SJPREME COURT.
Gaines v. Relf et &I.

thi left. About that Ume he was apprehensive of a collison, and
that it was caused by the approach of- the flatboat; But this
witness says, that the river at the place of collision was from
three quarters to a mile wide. Now with this fact, stated by
himself, why was it necessary to run the Memphis on such a
course as that such a collision should have happened? Or why
was she,not run at such a distance as that it could not have occurred? Added to this, this witness knew the force of. the eddies, and should have guarded cautiously against their effect.
This is a cause of collision happening in broad daylight after
the steamer had observed the flatboat for more than the distance
of half a mile. The. evidence* shows, that the steamer could
have be~n differently navigated from the manner in which she
was, and that thei course she was run, though in the judgment
of the pilot was the best under the circumstances, yet that it
was a course which"caused the collision, and that another might
have been taken by which there would have been no possibility
of a collision.
The judgment ofthe Circuit Court is affirmed.
Mr. Justice DANIEL dissented from the decision in this case,
on the ground of 'the w-ant of jurisdiction inthe admiralty courts
of the United States, in cases like the present
.Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record, from the Circuit Court of the United States, for the Eastern District of Louisiana, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed
by this court, that the decree of the said Circuit Court in this
cause, be, and the same is hereby affirmed with costs, and
damages at the rate of six per centum per annum.

MYRA CLARK GAINES, APPELLANT, V. RICHARD RELF, AND

BEV-

ERLY CHEW, EXECUTORS Or DANIEL CLARK AND OTHERS.
Myra Clark Gaines filed a bill in chancery, alleging her claim to certain property upon
the ground that Clark, who died seized of'the property, had been married to Zulimc,
the mother of the complainant:
The claim was resisted upon two grounds. 1st, That no svch alleged marriage took
place; and 2d, That Zulime was, at the-date of the alleged marriage, the wile of a
man named'Desgrange. The marriage with Desgrange was admitted by the
complainant, but it was contended that the marriage was void ab initio, becase Desgrange, at the time of contracting it, had another wife living, and therefore was
guilty of bigamy.
In this case, it is decided that the two principal witnesses for the complainant, to es-

DECEMBER TERM,

1851.

473

Gaines v. Relf et al.
tablish the fact of the marriage between Zulinie and Clark, (the parents of the complainant,) are unworthy of credit.
That the charge of bigamy against Desgrange is not substantial, because,
1. The deposition* of persons who testify to it only state hearsay and rumor.
2. That the naked contessions of bigamy which Desgrange was alleged to have made
arc incompetent evidence and inadmissible as aaiunst the executors of Clark and
purchasers holding by sales from them. To hold that either party could, by a
mere declaration, establish the fact that a marriage was void, would be an alarming
doctrine.
3. A certificate of a priest, given sixteen years after the marriage, that he had married
D)esgrange to his alleged first wife, w s inadmissible as evidence. There was no
register of the marriage in the records of the church.
4. A mutilated record of a suit brought by Zulime against Desgrange, and alleged
to have been for the purpose of having her marriage with him deaared null and
void, does not prove the bigamy of Desgrange. The cause of action is not stated,
the petition having been lost.
A sworn copy of an ecclesiastical record, taken at the proper office and produced by
the lawful keeper of the records, may be admitted as evidence, the original being
produced by the bishop who had charge of the records of the bishopric.
This purported to be a trial of Desgrange for bigamy, and his acquittal. It was
competent evidence as rebutting testimony inasmuch as proof of the loss of the
record and secondary proof of its contents had been given on the other side.
The depositions of Zulime in this ecclesiastical case, and also in a suit brought byher
against Desgrange for alimony, are received by this court as competent evidence,
because there was notice of a motion in the Circuit Court to suppress the evidence,
but in the course of along trial no such motion was made. If it had been made,
the deponent herself was at hand to testify. No objection having been made to it
in the court below, none can be made here. Moreover, the eomplaintnt claims
u, era deed of gift from the deponent, and is estopped by her declarations.
The decree of this court in the case of Patterson v. Gaines, (6 How. 550,) cannot affect
other persons, because these persons were not parties to it, and because that case
was not a controversy carried on in earnest.

Mlr. GkiefhTistice Taney and .Mr. Jslice MDcLean did not sit
in this cause.
Tins was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Eastern District of Louisiana.
The bill was originally filed in the Circuit Court by William

W. Whitney and Myra Clark Whitney (now Myra Clark Gaines)
in 1836. From 1834 to 1836 they had been proceeding in. the
probate court of Louisiana, until in 1836 their petition was dismissed. They then filed a bill in the Circuit Court of- the United States.
At January term, 1839, a motion was made in this court for

a iandainus to compel the Circuit Court to proceed according
to the rules established by this court for the regulation of chancery proceedings. The case is reported in 13 Pet. 404.
It came up again at January term, 1841,;upon a certificate of
division in opinion betveen the jr.dges of the Circuit Court,
whether chancery practice should ,revail there or not, and is

reported.in 15 Pet. 9.
The defendants below having demurred to the bill, the case
came up again upon another certificate of division in opinion at

474

SUPREME COURT.
Gaines v. Relf et al.

January term, 1844, and is reported in 2 How. 619, under the
name of Gaines et px. v. Chew et al.
One of the defendants, Patterson, having answered the bill
instead of demurring to it, this branch of the case came before
this court again at January term, 1848, and is reported in 6
How. 50.
The present case now came up upon pleas, answers, replications, and evidence, constituting a record of upwards of twelve
hundred printed pages. Much of the history of the case and the
substance of a considerable portion of the evidence is given in
the two reports in 2 How. and 6 How., and the reader is referred
to those reports. Some of the most important parts of the
additional evid' mce, introduced into the case for the first time,
will be noticed.r&the present statement.
Mrs. Gaines claimed under two distinct titles; one as the
-forced heir of her father, Daniel Clark, and the other as the
assignee of her mother's share of the estate which had been conveyed to her by her mother. In either view, the lawful marriage
between Daniel Clark, her father, and Zuline Carriere, her
mother, alleged to have taken place in 1802 or 1803, was the
great point in the case to be proved; and the first step to establish that was the capacity of Zulime to marry. Her previous
marriage with Desgrange was admitted; but it was alleged to
have been null and void ab initio, because Desgrange had
another wife living when he contracted his marriage with Zulime
Carri~re.. Part of the evidence to sustain this charge of bigamy
against Desgrange is recited in the opinion of the court: viz.
the testimony of Madame Despau, Madame Cdillanet, Joseph
Bellechasse, and Madame Bengueril. Two other pieces of evidence were relied upon by the complainant to fix the charge of
bigamy upon Desgrange, which are referred to in the opinion
of the court with an intimation that the reporter should set them
forth with more particularity. They were as follows:
1st. The catholic priest's certificate of Desgrange's prior marriage.
The existence of this paper was discovered in the following
manner, as stated in the deposition of James Gardette, taken
under a commission:
"And afterwards, to wit, on the 10th July, 1849, appeared Dr.
James Gardette, a witness, heretofore called and examined on
behalf of complainant, and now by them recalled, doth depose
and say,"Witness being shown document No. 6, filed with the commissioner by complainant on 23d June, 1849, being a certificate of
marriage of one Jacobum Desgrange and Barbara Orci, he was
asked to staie when and where the same was found. Witness

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.
Gaines v.

475

Relf et al.

says: ly mother and myself were looking over the papers of
Dr. Gardette, my father; several papers fell on the floor, and
among them this paper was found. This paper was found after
the decision of the Patterson case in the Circuit Court of the
United States, and before the decision of the same case in the
Supreme Court of the United States. And it was handed by
my mother to General Gaines or his wife immediately after it
was found.
"JAMES GARDETTE.
" Cross-examination waived by Louis Janin, Esq., of counsel
for defendants.
"J. W. GT*RLEY,
" Commissioner."
The certificate was as follows.
printed in the record.

The Latin is given -as it is

"Omnibus has literas, Inspecturis Salutem in Domino.

0
c
.

P

Ego infrascriptus sacerdos Catholicus et Apostilicus,
pastor Ecclesie S. Petri Apostoli, hinc Presentibus, no_tum
facio et attestor omnibus et singulis, quorum interest,
quod die sexta mensis Julij, A. D. 1790, in matrimonium
conjunxerum Jacobum Degrange et Barbara m Orci,
Testes proesentes fuerunt, Joannes O'Connell, Carolus
Bernardi, et Victoria Bernardi. In quorum fidem, has
manu propria scripsi, et subscripsi, vigilloq. muniri. Datum Neo Eboraci, vulgo New York, hac die ld mensis
Septembris, A. D. 1806.
" GULIELIaUSV. O'BRIEN,

"1Reg. pag., '45.

"PastorEcclesi S. Petriut supra.

"Nous, Gabriel Rey, gdndral divisionaire, commissaire des relationes commerciales de France, A New York, certifione que
Monsieur Guillaume V. O'Brien, dont la signature est appos6 a
l'extrait de mariage en l'autre part, est prdtre et curd de l'Eglise
Catholique de Ste. Pierre, en cett ville de New York, et quen
cette qualitd foi doit 6tre ajouter a sa dite signature tant en
jugement que hors.
"En temoin de quoi nous avons sign6 le prasente et sceld fait
[L S.]apposer le timbre du commissariat, A New York, le 13
Septembre, 1806.

RE.

Indorsed: "Admitted by defendants as proved, reserving all
legal objections to its admissibility as.evidence.
" J. W. GURLEY, Commissioner."

476

SUPREME COURT.
Gaines v. Relf et al.

in order to fortify this certificate, the depositions of Ellen
Guinan, John ]Power, and Charles E. Beason were taken in
1846.
Ellen Guinan was the niece of William V. O'Brien, and resided with him from the time that she was nine years old until
he died, being abou t twenty years. O'Brien was pastor of the
church for thirty years, viz., from 1784 to 1814, when he died.
She had been accustomed to see him write several times a day,
and testified that the whole of the above certificate was in his
handwriting. She also deposed as follows:
13. Question. Do you know the persons named in the body
of this exhibit, Joannes 0'Connel, Carolus Bernardi, and Victoria
Bernardi?
Answer. I have heard of them, and think they are dead, but
never knew or saw them that I know of.
14. Question. Did you know Jacobum Desgrange and Barbara M. Orci, named in the body of the exhibit?
Answer. I did not- never have known them.
15. Question. Do you know whether the books or records
of St. Peter's church were at any time destroyed?
Answer. I heard they were.
16., Question. When did you hear they were, and on what
occasion?
Answer. A gentleman from Ireland, Mr. Cruise, who married
the sister of Sir John Johnston, of Johnstown and Wahenstown,
in Ireland, came to inquire .about the marriage of one of his
family, whom he had understood was manied by my uncle. I
told him to go to the church, as we had given up uncle's books
after his death to Bishop Connelly, catholic bishop of this city.
He came back and told us that he had found that the books had
been destroyed by fire.
17. Question. About how long ago was it that you thus
heard that the books were destroyed?
Answer. To the best of my recollection, about thirteen or
fourteen years ago.
18. Question. What did you hear of Joannes O'Connell, Carolus Bernardi, and Victoria Bernbrdi, named in the exhibit shown
you, and mentioned in a previous question?
Answer. I heard from my aunt, Louis? Jane O'Brien, that
they were all attached to the Spanish ambassador's suite. I
think O'Connell was his chaplain.
John Power, the vicar-general of the diocese of New York,
and pastor of St. Peter's church, deposed as follows:
2. Question. How long have you been pastor of St. Peter's
church?
Answer. I have been officiating as clergyman in that church

DECEMBER TERM,

1851.

477

Gaines v. Relf et al.

twenty-six years, (taken in 1846) and pastor of it about twenty
years.
3. Question. Have records been kept in said St. Peter's
church of the marriages solemnized by the clergymen officiating
there ?
Answer. There have been, with more or less regularity; there
have been frequent omissions arising either from neglect or accident.
4. Question. Is there any written record now existing of the
marriages solemnized by the clergymen of the said church previous to the year 1800?
Xnswer. I don't know that such a record exists; I have heard
that it was missing, but have made no paxticular personal search
for it; I don't know that I ever saw it.
5. Question. Have you known, personally or by reputation,
William V. O'Brien, now deceased?
Answer. I have no personal knowledge of him; he was dead
when I came to this 6ountry, but his memory was then fresh in
the minds of people, and he was held in high repute.
6. Question. What was his profession, and what place or
office did he hold here?
Answer. He was pastor of St. Peter's church.
7. Question. How long had he been pastor of St. Peter's
church?
Answer. Many years; I cannot say the precise time.
8. Question. Do there appear to be any records in said church
kept by him of the baptisms which he solemnized whilst pastor
of said church?
Answer. There do.
9. Question. Have they been universally and at all times received as genuine and authentic?
Answer. They have been always received as genuine and authentic, and I have no doubt that they are so.
10. Question. Have you any knowledge of the handwriting
of said William V. O'Brien; and if so -whence have you derived it?
Answer. I have a knowledge of his handwriting, which I
derived from the register of baptisms in St. Peter's church,
which have always been received as handwriting.
11. Question. From the knowledge which you have thus derived of his handwriting, do you believe the signature Gulielmus.
V. O'Brien, in the exhibit marked A, now shown you, to be in
the handwriting of said William V. O'Brien?
Answer. I believe it to be his handwriting; it is identically
the same handwriting with that of the records now in the church
of which I have spoken.

478

SUPREME COURT.
Gaines v.

Relf et al.

12. Question. In whose handwriting do you believe the writing in said exhibit preceding said signature, that is, the body of
the marriage certificate, to which said signature is affixed, to be?
Answer. In the handwriting of said Rev. William V. O'Brien.
13. Question. In what language did said Rev. Mr. O'Brien
keep his records before spoken of?
Answer. In the Latin language.
14. Question. How did he sign his name when writing in the
Latin language?
Answer. In the same manner as it is signed in the exhibit
marked A, which you have shown me- Gulielmus V. O'Brien.
15. Question. Had said Rev. Mr. O'Brien full and legal
power to solemnize and perform the ceremonies of marriage
while he was pastor of St. Peter's church?
Answer. He had.
16. Question. Have you a knowledge of, and are you versed
in, the Latin language?
Answer. I am versed in the Latin language.
17. Question. Please to read said certificate of marriage
marked exhibit A, now shown you, and state whether the marriage of Desgrange, therein certified to, was performed according
to the usages and formalities of the said church at the time of
the date of the said certificate, so far as the same appears in, and
by virtue of, the said certificate?
Answer. The certificate is absolutely in due form, and it is to
be presumed that the marriage was solemnized according to the
Previous to
rights and ceremonies of the catholic church.
giving this my answer, I have, as requested, read the said certificate, and understand its contents.
18. Question. Do you know any thing of the witnesses to
the said marriage mentioned in said certificate, or any of them?
Answer. I do not.
Charles E. Benson, the clerk of St. Peter's church, deposed
as follows:
2. Question. Have -you the custody of the records of marriages and baptisms solemnized by the pastors and clergymen
of said St. Peter's church?
Answer. I have.
3. Question. Is there existing now among those records any
record or -written memorandums of marriages solemnized by the
pastors and clergymen of the said church previous to the year
1800 ?
Answer. There is now none existing of any date previous to
the year 1802.
4. Question. Have you any knowledge of the handwriting
of William V. O'Brien, catholic priest, formerly pastor of said
St. Peter's church?

DECEMBE.R TERM, 1851.

479

Gaines v. Relf et al.

Answer. No other knowledge than such as I derive from the
records of the church which were kept by him. Those records
have been always received as authentic and genuine, and as
being in his handwriting.
5. Question. From the knowledge which you have thus derived of his handwriting, do you believe the certificate of marriage, marked exhibit A, now shown to you, to be in his handwriting, including the signature, Gulielmus V. O'Brien?
Answer. I do; I have not the slightest doubt about it.
6. Question. Are there any records of baptisms solemnized by
the pastors of St. Peter's church?
Answer. There are.
7. Question. Are there any such records of baptisms belonging to said church kept by William V. O'Brien?
Answer. There are; from the year 1787 to the year 1808 in
one register, and from 1808 to 1816 in another. There are*in
each of these registers other entries by other clergymen attached
to the church.
8.' Question. In whose handwriting are the first entries in
the oldest register spoken of by you?
Answer. In the handwriting of said -Mr. O'Brien.
The witness also deposed that he had made diligent search
for the register of marriages previous to the year 1802, but was
not able to find it..
Another piece of evidence relied upon by the complainants
was what is sometimes spokei of as a divorce record, and sometimes as a mutilated record. It was as follows:
"s tate of Louisiana,third District Court of New Orleans.
"ZULIUE CARRIERE

)

V.

JEROM E DESGRANGE.

,

"No. 256 of the docket of the late county court of New Orleans.
GCitation. lr. Ellery, (curator of Desgrange:)
" You are hereby summoned to comply with the prayer of the
annexed petition, or to file your answer thereto in writing, with
the clerk of the county of New Orleans, at his office, in New
Orleans, in eight days after the service heredf, and if you fail
herein, judgment will be given aguinst you by default.
"Witness, James Vorkman, judge of the said court, this 24th
day of June, in the year of our Lord 1806.
"THos. S. KENNEDY, Clerk.
(Signed)
"Return on citation served on Ellery, 30th June, 1806.
"GEo. T. Ross, ISheriff.
(Signed)
f Plea filed July 1st, 1806."

SUPREME COURT.
Gaines 'v. Relf et al.
"ZULI

E CARIERE

v.t
JERom

DESGRANGE.

)

)

No. 556.

" County Court of New Orleans.
"The plea of Jerome Desgrange, defendant, to the petition of
Zulime Carri~re, plaintiff:
"This defendant, by protestation, not confessing or acknowledging all or any part of the matters and things in the plaintiff's
said petition contained to be true, in such manner and form as
the same are therein and thereby alleged, for plea unto the said
petition saith, that this court ought not to have cognizance of
the same, because the laws by which this court was created, and
the jurisdiction thereof established, do not extend the same to
cases of divorce, or give to thi5 court any authority to pronounce
therein, and because the damages in the said petition prayed for
against this defendant cannot be inquired into or assessed, until
after the'judgment of this court., in touching the validity of the
marriage between the petitioner and the defendant, shall be first
declared.
"Wherefore, this defendant dbth riot suppose that this court
will or ought to have or hold further cognizance of the petition
aforesaid; and therefore this defendant doth plead the premises
in bar to the said petition, and humbly demands judgment of
this honorable court, whether he shall be put to make further answer thereto, and prays to be hence dismissed, with his reasonable costs and charges in this behalf wrongfully sustained.
"A. P. ELLERY,for Deft.
(Signed)
"And the said plaintiff saith, that for any thing by the defendant above, in pleading, alleged, she ought not to be barred or
precluded from having and maintaining her action aforesaid
against the said defendant.
"Wherefore, for want of a sufficient answer in this behalf, the
plaintiff prays judginent, &c.
"BROWN & FaozENT, for Pltff."
(Signed)
Answer filed July 24th, 1806.
"ZULIAIE CARRIERE

No. 356.

v.f
JERo mn DESGRANGE.

" County Court of [Neew] Orleans.
"Answer of Jerome Desgrange to the petition of Zulime Caxrire.
"This defendant, saving and reserving to himself all manner of

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

481

Gaines v. Relf et al.

benefit of exception to the many errors, untruths, and imperfections in the said petition contained, for answer thereunto saith,
that the facts in the said petition set forth are untrue, and prays
that he may be hence dismissed with his costs and charges in,
this behalf most wrongfully sustained.
(Signed)
"A. R. ELLERY, for Deft."
(Then followed in the record a long certificate of marriage
between Geronimo Desgrange and Maria Julia Carriefe, performed by a catholic priest on the 2d of December, 1794, which
it is not necessary to transcribe.)
"ZULIrI

CRRIERE

V.
DESGRANGE.

Brown & Fromentin, for plaintiff
No..356.
Ellery, for defendant.

"Petition filed June 24th, 1806. Debt or damages, $100.
nds 600. Plea filed July 1st, 1806. Answer fied July 24th,
1806. Set for trial on Thursday, 24th July.
" Summons issued for M. Coudrain, Ch6vof, Mary Marr, Rose
Carri~re, Christopher Joseph Le Prevost, Trouque, Le Breion
d'Orgenoy, and Joseph Villar, senior.
Mr. Fourke, sworn.
r. dOrgenoy,
Clerk
( Madam Marr.
"Judgment for plaintiff. Damages, $100. July 24th, 18462
"Attorneys

$10 00

7 874-

"State qf Loisiana, Third District Court of Jew Orleans.
"I, Charles Weysham, deputy clerk of the third District Court of
New Orleans, do hereby certify, that the above and "foregoingfive
pages do contain a full and complete transcript of the case,
wherein lrs. Zulime Carri~re is plaintiff, and Jerome Desgrange
is defendant, instituted in the late county court of Orleans, under the No. 356, e. cepting the petition, that cannot be found.
And that by operation of law, the records of the said county
court of Orleans have been transferred to this court, and are now
in the custody of the clerk thereof.
"In testimonyWhereof I have hereunto set my hand, and affixed
the seal of the said court, at New Orleans, on this 14th fourteenth
day of June, in the year of our Lord- eighteen hundred and fortv-nine, and the seventy-third year of the independence of the
United States.
(Signed)
"CHAS. WEYSHAM,
Deputy- Clerk."
VOL. XII.

SUPREME COURT.
Gaines v. ReIf et al.

In addition to these evidences of the bigamy of fDesgrange,
the complainant introduced the testimony of various persons to
prove the fact of the public reputation at the time, and that
of a great number of witnesses, to sustain the character of ladame Despau.
The above comprehends the principal evidence offered by the
complainant and appellant, in addition to that which is set forth
in the opinion of the court.
Evidence offered by the respondents.
1. The ecclesiastical record is transcribed in the opinion of
court, and need not be repeated.
2. A record which is spoken of as the Alimony Record.
",State of Louisiana, Third District Court of New Orleans.
"ZULIME C. DESGRANGE
JEROME I ES

.

No. 178, of the docket of the late
County Court of Orleans.

"Petition filed November 30th, 1805.
" To the honorable fames Workman, jud.ge of the County
Court of Orleans.

"The petition of Zulime 'Carri~re Desgrange, an inhabitant of
the city of New Orleans, humbly showeth"That whereas it is provided by the first section of an act, entitled an act concerning alimony, and for other purposes, that
the County Court shall have jurisdiction on application from
wives against their husbands, for alimony, on the husband deserting his wife, for one year successively, and in cases of cruel,
inhuman, and barbarous treatment; and whereas your petitioner
may adduce proofs before this honorable court that she has been
cruelly and barbarously treated by Jerome Desgrange, her husband, and likewise that she has been deserted by him, for three
years past, to wit, from the second day of September, one thousand eight hundred and two, ever up-to this day, although she
has been told that the said Jerome Desgrange rehrned from
France to New Orleans some time in the course of last month,
and is now in the city of New Orleans.
'rWherefore, these are to pray that it may please your honor to
order that the said Jerome Desgrange, your petitioner's husband,
be condemned to pay to your petitioner a sum of five hundred
dollars per annum, and that your petitioner be likewise entitled
-to all the other benefits and advantages belonging to her, in vir-

DECEMBER TERM,

1851.

Gaines v. Relf et al.

tue of the law of this territory in that case made and provided;
and your petitioner, as in duty bound, shall ever pray.

(Signed)

"ELIGIUR FROMENTIN,

"Attorneyfor .Plaintiff.
"Citation.
"Mr. Jerome De'sgrange "You are hereby summoned to comply with the prayer of the
annexed petition, or to file your answer thereto, in writing, with
the clerk of the county of Orleans, at his office at New Orleans,
in eight days after the service hereof; and if you fail herein,
judgment will be given against you by default.
" ZuLIMEI C. DESGRANGE)
No. 178.
v.
JEROME DESGRANGE.

"Witness, James Workman, judge of the said court, this 30th
day of November, in the year of our Lord 1805.
(Signed)
"Tnos. S. KENNEDY Clerk.
"Return on Citation.
"6th December, 1805, served on the defendant.

(Sign6)

"JOHN

T. PROUILLARD, D. S.

"FRoMENTIN, Att'y.
"ZULInA CARRIERE DE8GRANGE)

v.

No. 178.

JEROME DESGRANGE.

"Petition filed 30th November, 1805, for alimony. Served
December 6th, 1805. Judgment by default, December 19th,
1805. The court doth award final judgment for the plaintiff,
December 24th, 1805.
(Signed)
"JAMrEs WORKMAN.
"Attorney's fees, $19 621"Clerk's fees,
10 87 .
"Execution issued December 24th, 1805."
"State of Louisiana, Tird District Court of 'ew Orleans.
(I, Chas. Weysham, deputy-clerk of the third District Court
of New Orleans, do hereby certify, that the above and foregoing
four pages do contain a full and complete transcript of the record of the case, wherein Irs. Zulinie Carri~re Desgrange is
plaintiff, and Jerome Desgrange is defendant, instituted in the
late County Court of Orleans, under the No. 178; and that by

SUPREME COURT.
Gaines v.

Relf et al.

operation of law the records of the said late County Court of
Orleans have been transferred to this court, and are now in the
custody of the clerk thereof."
3. In order to impeach the character of Madame Despau, three
records were filed in evidence, the contents of which will be
briefly stated under the letters A, B, C.
A. On the 10th of June, 1805, William Despau filed a petition in the Superior Court in and for the Territory of Orleans,
praying for a separation from Marie Sophia Carriere, his wife.
It alleged "incompatibility of humor and several other reasons,
the recital of which would be too afflicting."
On the 8th of July, 1805, she answered the petition, admitting
the material facts alleged.
On 11th of January, 1806, a separation from bed and board
was decreed, by consent, and the plaintiff was ordered to hand
in an inventory of his estate.
B. 'Sophia filed her petition, on the 1st of September, 1806,
alleging that her husband was about to sell two plantations or
tracts of land, and praying an injunction, which was granted.
On the 2d of October, 1806, Despau filed his answer, consenting
that one half of the proceeds of sale should be placed in bond
and security; and the injunction was dissolved.
C. On the 8th of February, 1808, Despau filed his supplemental petition, with his affidavit dated 11th of November, 1807,
stating that on the preceding June his wife had left New Orleans clandestinely, being the second time that she had done so,
for the purpose of going to the United States. Another witness
made affidavit that she had set sail for North America.
Whereupon, in May, 1808, the court passed the following
order:
"Ordered by the court, that the bond referred to in the petition on file in the office of the clerk of this court be cancelled,
and the security discharged; and that, as the defendant hath
forfeited her right to the property acquired in the community,
that the same vest in and belong to the petitioner.
JOSHUA LEwis.
MKay 24th, 1808.
(Signed)
(Countersigned) J. W. SMITH, Clerk."
4. The respondents also gave in evidence two powers of attorney; one executed by the sisters of Zalime to Desgrange,
dated, March 26, 1801, authorizing him to settle certain affairs
in Bordeaux, in France, and the other from Desgrange to his
wife, authorizing her to act for him in his absence. Also, a
letter written by Desgrange to Clark from Bordeaux, and dated
July, 1801. These papers are referred to or recited in the opinion
of the court.

DECE9MBER
Gaines v.

TERM,

1851.

Relf et al.

5. The respondents also gave in evidence the deposition of
Daniel W. Coxe, of Philadelphia. To this were annexed a
number of letters addressed to the deponent by Clark, and numbered from 9 to 80. In addition to these a great number of letters to and from Clark were introduced into the case. These
were used indiscriminately by the counsel for the appellants
and 'appellees in their arguments, to sustain the views which
they respectively took of the facts in the case. These letters
showed Clalk to have been twice in Philadelphia during the
year 1802, once in April, and again in the latter part of July
and beginning of August.
The deposition of Coxe was twice taken, and both of them
were inserted in this record. It was taken once in 1841 in a suit
between John Barnes and wife against Edmund P. Gaines and
wife, in the First Judicial District Court, and again in 1849 in
this suit. In his answer to the 17th interrogatory, in his deposition of 1841, he says:
" I repeat that the said Daniel Clark was in Philadelphia in
the spring of the year 1802. The said Zulime was then there;
she arrived there before the said Daniel Clark, and, as I have
already stated, brought to me a letter of introduction from him.
Daniel Clark was not in Philadelphia at the birth of Caroline."
And in his answer to the 7th interrogatory, he said:
" The first time Daniel Clark visited Philadelphia after the
birth of Caroline was in the year 1802 and soon after her birth.
I am enabled to fix the time by referring to a power of attorney
left by him -with me," &c. &c.
A copy of that power is annexed to his deposition, and its
date is 22d April, 1802.
In the deposition taken in 1849, he thus replied to the 14th
interrogatory in chief:
"Daniel Clark did both write and speak to me about his (the
said Clark's) relationship or connection with Madame Desgrange' the reputed mother of the complainant Myra. In the
early part of the year 1802, the said Madame Desgrange presented herself to me, with a letter from Daniel Clark, intro-'
ducing her to me, and informing me. in confidence that the
bearer of that letter, Madame Desgrange, was pregnant with a
child by him, and requesting me, as his friend, to make suitable
provision for her, and to place her under the care of a respectable
physician; requesting me at the same time to furnish her with
whatever money she might want and stand in need of, during
her stay in Philadelphia. As the friend of Mr. Clark, I undertook to attend to his request, and did attend to it. ' I employed
the late William Shippen, M. D., to attend to her during her
confinement, and procured for her a nurse. Soon after the birth
41 *

486

SUPREME COURT.
Gaines v. Relf et al.

of the child, it was taken to the residence of its nurse. That
child was called Caroline Clark, and, at the request of Mr. Clark,
the child was left under my general charge and exclusive care
until the year 1811. After that period, she was not so exclusively under my charge, but I had a 'general charge over her,
which continued up to the period of her marriage with Dr. John
Barnes, formerly of this city. She is now dead, as is also Dr.
Shippen, before spoken of. Daniel Clark arrived in this city
within a very short period after the birth of said Caroline, which
was, I believe, in April, 1802, when I received from him the expression of his wishes in reference to this child. He left here
shortly afterwards, as before stated by me. During Daniel
Clark's subsequent visits to Philadelphia, he always visited that
child, acknowledged and caressed it as his own, and continued
to give me the expression of his wishes in reference to her. On
the occasion of Mr. Clark's visit to Philadelphia, immediately
after the birth of Caroline, in conversation with me in reference
to Madame Desgrange, he confirmed whwa he had stated in his
letter of introduction, stating to me that he was the father of
this illegitimate child, Caroline, and that he wished me to take
care of her, and to let the woman have what money she stood
in need of until she returned to New Orleans."
6. The respondents gave in evidence the depositions of a
number of witnesses for the purpose of assailing the character
of Zulime for chastity.
7. The respondents also gave in evidence the deposition of
Patterson, to show the collusive manner in which the case of
Patterson v. Gaines was brought up to this court, as reported in
6 How. 550. The substance of this deposition is recited in the
opinion of the court, and need not be repeated.
The above is a brief summary of the most important parts of
the evidence in this cause, omitting whai, was published in 2
and 6 Howard, and what is now inserted in the opinion of the
court.
On the 21st of February, 1850, the Circuit Court dismissed
the complainant's bill, with costs; and thereupon the complainant appealed to this court.
It was argued by lr. "ohnsonand Mr. Campbell, with whom
was MLIr. Lawrence, for the appellant, and by ir. Webster and
Mr. Duncan for the appellees.
The arguments of counsel upon points raised in the cause,
but not decided by the court, will be wholly omitted; and it is
extremely difficult to compress those which appeitained to the
only question which was decided, within reasonable limits.

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

487

Gaines v. 1Relf et al.

The counsel for the complainant contended that the letters
which were filed in the cause, conclusively proved that Clark left
New Orleans for the north in November, 1801, that he was in
Philadelphia in January, February, March, and April, 1802, up
to the 22d of April, when his intended departure on the next
day for New Orleans, in the schooner Eliza, was mentioned.
They also contended that certain papers in the cause showed
that Zulime was raising money in New Orleans in November,
1801, and that she was absent in January, 1802.
Leaving these questions of dates, which go to sustain the positive declarations of Madame Despal, does the plaintiff prove in
any other manner that she is the legitimate child of Daniel
Clark ? Filiation is proven in reference to the father by presuraptions. On the continent of Europe, these presumptions
are generally authenticated by inquiries at the date of the birth,
and entered upon public registers. These acts furnish full proof
of birth and filiation. In the absence of these, the facts themselves, which raise the presumption, are resorted to. The inquiries are, who was it that prepared for the advent of the child
into life, and provided nurture and care during the period of its
helplessness and infancy; who maintained it, extended its relations through the family, friends, and acquaintances; who gave
it education and control in youth; who sought for it advancernehit, repute, and station, in early manhood; who assisted its
gradual expansion and growth, the enlargement of its circle of
friends and connections, the additions to its fame and fortune;
who provided for it by the last will and testament; who acknowledged and guarded the child from infancy to youth, and from
youth to manhood; for whose did the world accept it? These
characteristics will serve to determine the father of the child.
Code Louisiana, 1825, fit. 7, ch. 2, sect. 2; 8 Denisart Questions, d'etat, 8; 3 D'Aguesseau, 181; Nougarede Lois des Familles, .213; Merlin, Reper., tit. L6gitimit6, sects. 2, 4; 1 Stark.
Ev. 47; 2 Id. fit. Pedigree, 8 Ves. 428; 8 Causes C6leb. 358.
'The canon law and the canonists accept these proofs as sufficient. In the chapter 1,
tas de probationibus" of the canon law,
it is said: " Satis esse ad ejus modi de natalibus qucrstiones ut
q2tis vono zetifrfihius et publice, agnoscatur passimque habeatur et
credafar apud omnes."
"'rPtter
fidem instrunentorum et asseverationem parentum tria
i'ecensentur, tractatus, testes,fama et suppleret,deficientibusprobationibus certioribus,flliationer omnern tam probari,quampr&,sumi,
si is de cijus statu agiturprofilio habitussit,si testes et vicini idem
deponent, si popularisfamaidem asseveret." Covarruvios de lat.
part 2, ch. 2, sect. 3; Cujac. fit. 16, book C, 7 de lib.
What are the facts established in this -record? 1st, Daniel

SUPREME
Gaines v.

COURT

Relf et al.

Clark cohabited with the mother of the plaintiff prior to the
birth of the plaintiff. 2d. Before the birth of the plaintiff, he
provided- a house, in which the mother's confihement took place.
3d. Several days after the plaintiff's birth, she was placed in the
family of Colonel Davis, as the child of Daniel Clark, and was
received as syich. 4th. She bore the surname of Clark till his
death. 5th. He provided money, and servants, and playthings
for the infant. 6th. He openly cherished her as his child in the
-nresence of his friends. 7th. He spent much time with her, and
manifested much anxiety and ambition for her. 8th. No other
paternity was spoken of in New Orleans for-her. 9th. He provided, in 1811,1jjpon his leaving New Orleans upon a distant
journey, munificently for her. 10th. In his last will, he recognized and affirmed her legitimacy, and his last thoughts and
anxieties upon his death-bed were concerning her.
The mother of the plaintiff declared- her to be the child of
Clark. The family of Boisfontaine and wife, in whose house
she was born, Mesdames Despau and Caillavet, her mother's
sisters, received her into life as Clark's child.
Davis and wife, with whom she lived, Mrs.'Harper, who nursed
and cherished her, did so as Clark's child; De la Croix, who
consented to be her tutor, Bellechasse, to hold property in trust
for her, did so at the instance of Clark, and as the child of
Clark.
This possession of the status and condition of filiation, was
accompanied with declarations of legitimacy. The father spoke
of her as the heiress of his fortune. He bequeathed to her his
fortune. She was spoken of as his heiress in the community at
large.
The mother represented her as the child of a legitimate marriage.
ierlin, reporting a case 6f legitimacy to the French court,
says: 1." That the commencement of proof, that Henrietta derives
from her act of birth, from the letters written by her father, from
the treatment received in the family, from the paternal testament, dated in 1801, to establish her quality of legitimate
daughter and the quasi possession of this quality, completes full
proof. If, however, the existence of a former husband, joined to
the, defect of proof of the putative marriage, could radically
vitiate the title derived from her possession of status, the proof
furnished of the reality of that marriage, and the common opinion relative to its effects, should authenticate the source. . 2.
That the title of the possession of the status of legitimacy being
established, the proof of the vices with which this title may be
infected, as to the interests of the child Henrietta, is entirely
upon the opposers, for qui dolo dicit factum aliauidlicet in ex-

DECEMNBER TERM, 1851.

489

Gaines v. nelf et al.
ceptione docere dolunt adnissione debet." 10 Merlin, Questions,
de droit, 49, 50.
"Always favorable to innocence," says D'Aguesseau, "when
the same effect can be traced to two causes, the one illegal
and unjust, and the other just and legitimate - the law rejects
the first to adhere exclusively to the last." 3 D'Aguesseau, 180.
Cochin, pleading for Borguelat, says: "1We should weaken
the foundations of public tranquillity if, after a long possession
and enjoyment of his status, we could displant a man from the
family in which he has, as it were, taken root by acts and widespread recognitions." 1 Cochin, 590; 2 Menoche's Prac. 839,
sect. 14, 15, 17, 18.
Starkie, speaking of such proof, says: "These are not be
considered mere wanton assertions, upon which no reliance can
be placed; on the contrary, in the absence of any motive for
committing a fraud on society, it is in the highest degree improbable that the parties should have been guilty of practising a
continued system of imposition upon the rest of the world, involving a conspiracy in its nature very difficult to be executed."
3 Stark. 1101; W. Black. 877 ; 3 Mod. R. 182.
Finally, as a higher authority, and a better testimony of what
the law is, we refer to the case reported in 6 How. 550.
The question then recurs, is the plaintiff the legitimate child
of Daniel Clark? The defendants say no; for, at the time of
the putative marriage of her mother and father, the mother was
the wife of another person, and that there was, in that fact, an
insurmountable barrier to a legal marriage. To prove this, they
plead and prove the factum, of an earlier marriage between Desgrange and Zulime5 the plaintiff's mother. They produce a deposition alleged to hive been made upon a criminal prosecution
of Desgrange before an ecclesiastical court, in the province of
Louisiana, in 1802; they plead and prove a record of a suit for
alimony, in 1805, in one of the civil courts of New Orleans, in
which "Zulime alleged that she was the deserted wife of Desgrange; and, finally, they plead and prove a record for divorce,
in 1806, from the same courts. These facts, they affirm, establish
a valid and .subsisting bar to a marriage between Clark and
Zulime, at any time before the birth of the plaintiff
The facturn of the celebration of a marriage, and cohabitation under it, between Zulime and Desgrange, is not denied°
The existence of a record, containing a charge against him for
bigamy, is not denied. The fact of a record for an application
for alimony is not denied; nor of the record of an application
for, and judgment of, the court, declaring the marriage of Zulime with Desgrange originally invalid in 1806. We affirm,
that the last record furnishes conclusive proof of the invalidity

490

SUPREME

COURT.

Gaines v. Relf et al.

of that first marriage; and that the others do not qualify the
force of that proof, or impair the case of the plaintiff
The ecclesiastical record evidently cannot be pleaded as containing a res judicata. The ecclesiastical court undertakes an
inquiry concerning reports of polygamous connections on the
part of Desgrange, which had brought scandal upon the
church; and, after taking some testimony, which does not establish their truth, suspends the proceedings until further proof
could be had, and charges the defendant with the costs. The
court reserves in its judgment the power to make further inquiries. 1 Phil. Ev. 340; 3 Wheat. 317; 13 Wend. 592; Mitf.
Plead. 194; 1 Jac. & W. 20.
The acquittal of a party for bigamy, on a criminal prosecution, is not evidence in a civil cause involving the truth of the
charge. 1 Stark. Ev. 277,'280, 281 ; .1 Phil. Ev. 338.
The depositions taken in the case are not evidence as such.
The parties are not shown to be dead. Greenleaf, E. § 130;
13 Pet. 209. It is not admissible on account of the depositions
of Zulime, or as a source of declarations, because the party
is in life able to testify, and the transaction was one in which
neither Clark nor his daughter were parties. Had the parties
been the same, and the subject-matter the same, such a deposition would be incompetent. I Phil. Ev. 363.
The alimony record is produced for the benefit of an allegation in the petition, that Zulime was the wife of Desgrange.
But averments in such papers are treated as the suggestions of
counsel, and are not evidence. I Stark. 337; Gres. Eq. Ev.
424, 425. The judgment is not evidence, because marriage, in
such a case, is only collaterally in question. Gres: Eq. Ev. 424; 1
Stark. Ev. 387. It could have been put in issue, but it was not
necessarily so. In the Spanish jurisprudence, a marriage de
facto, in favor of the party dealing in good faith, produces civil
effects; and hence the only isssue might be, whether fhere had
been a marriage de facto. 4 Part. tit 15,1. 2; Gregorio Lopez,
I Motifs et Dis. 113, art. 201,202; 1 La. Annual R. 98; 10 Merlin
Questions de Droit, 32; Ricord des Donations, part 1, 374.
1The record, in 1806, pleaded and produced by the defendants,
the petition, and the formal judgment, which, by the practice of
the court, was written upon it, has been lost. The docketentry was kept, however, by law, and according to law, (2 Martin's Dig. 164,) and. that furnishes an account of the judgment.
The plea of the defendant (Desgrange) shows us it was a suit
in which Desgrange was charged with having contracted .a
marriage with the plaintiff which was invalid, and that damages
were claimed in consequence of the wrong. The issues 'then
were,. whether the marriage of the plaintiff and defendant

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

491

Gaines v. Relf at al.

was invalid, and the defendant was liable for. damages. The
Judgment is an adjudication of the law and fact of nullity. 1
Stark. Ev. 289; 8 Mod. 182; 1 Phil. Ev. 341; 2 How. State
Trials, 538; 2 Atk. 388; 2 Bligh, N. S. 446; 7 Coke, 42.
The inquiry then comes, what were the relations between
Desgrange and Zulime, from the time of the ascertainment of
his bigamy till the birth of the plaintiff? The witnesses concur
in the statement, that cohabitation between them had ceased.
No one witness pretends that, from the time of its publication,
whenever made, was there any intercourse between them. The
evidence further shows, that the mother of the plaintiff did not
assume the name of Clark, nor did she obtain from the public
the repute of being the wife of Clark. This, we contend, would
not overbear the proofs of legitimacy we have adduced, even if
not explained. 2 Hag. 63. There is, however, an explanation
of that fact. Both Clark and Zulime acted on the presumption
that judicial proof of the invalidity of the marriage between
Desgrange and herself was important; perhaps they were advised it was necessary to the legality of their case. The district
judge, in the case before this court; ruled that, without such
judicial proofs of nullity, there could be no legality in the marriage. There is a statement in the record, coming from an eminent lawyer, formerly living in Louisiana, to the same effect.
That such an opinion should have been entertained by these
parties, would, therefore, not be strange.
They might have considered this only as a rule oi propriety
and security from ecclesiastical censure in the province of Louisiana. Supposing the opinion to have been honestly entertained,
it resolves many of the difficulties that arise in viewing the conduct of the parties during the course of their subsequent history. The evidence is, that Zuime and Madame Despau, her
sister, went to the north of the United States, in 1801, to get
authentic evidence of the first marriage of Desgrange. Failing in that, and having no legal declaration of the fact, but
satisfied of its truth, she consented to the private marriage with
Clark. That the opinion had a favorable cause, but no foundation, is shown. Pothier, du Marnage (part 3, chap. 2, art. 4,)
172; 9 Causes C6lebres, 158; Nougarde Jurisprudence du Mariage, 294; 2 Phil. Rep. 19, 20; Von Leenmen's Dutch Law,
78; Herricourt Ecc. L. 107, sect. 36; Shelf. Mar. & Div. 275.
Before investigating the subsequent conduct of Clark and
wife, let us consider the.records pleaded by the defendants and
see how far they sustain the conclusions of the plaintiff. It is
clear that the suit for alimony, under the Louisiana statute, did
not correspond with that which Zulime ordered. Desgrange,
before that time, was gone, and alhnony Was not ex,)ected. The

492

SUPREME

COURT.

Gaines v. Relf et al.

effect, however, of such a suit, under the statute, was a divorce
from bed and board, and counsel might have mistaken the object, and instituted it as a divorce suit. The subsequent suit
shows that the purpose of getting full judicial proof of the nullity
of the marriage, and the marriage certificate, dated in 1806,
showing a marriage between a Desgrange and the woman on
whose account Desgrange was arrested, testify a purpose not
satisfied by the first suit, on the part of Zulime, to comply with
the demands of Clark, or with the provisions of the law.
These records, so far from showing any discredit upon the
explanations of the parties, when fairly considered, afford a confirmation to them.
They show that to remove the alleged impediment to the declaration of the marriage, a judicial inquiry and sentence were
supposed necessary, and that the party interested persevered in
measures to secure them.
One other argument remains, and that consists in the evidence
of Coxe. He undertakes to establish the fact of an illicit intercourse, and to negate the fact of marriage by proving that Clark
was never in Philadelphiawith Zulime, under such circumstances
as to allow a marriage to take place. He says, that in about
1802, Zulime came to Philadelphia with a letter from Clark,
confessing an illegitimate connection with her, and requesting
him to provide for the mother during her confinement, and the
child after its birth. That the mother left Philadelphia shortly
after the birth of the child, 4nd as soon as possible after her recovery from the sickness. That Clark arrived in Philadelphia
after the child was born, and remained but a short time. The
proof shows that Clark left New Orleans for Philadelphia before
the 7th November, 1801; that he was unexpectedly detained in
Havana, by an embargo, twenty-three days, but he is found in
Philadelphia in January, and remained there until the latter end
of April, 1802. Zulime is found in New Orleans in 1801, after
Clark had left there for the north.
Is there any probability of the accuracy of the statement that
Clark sent Zulime with a letter of introduction to Coxe, and requested him to superintend her accouchement?
Coxe was a married man, overbearing in his intercourse, staid
in his manners. He reprimands Clark continually in their intercourse. As might have been expected, Clark, on some subjects,
was reserved. At this moment he had his secrets carefully hidden from him.
Coxe, in his deposition taken in 1835, says nothing of the
letter of introduction, speaks doubtfully of the age of Caroline
Barnes, and professes to know nothing of the manner in which
Zulime arrived in Philadelphia in 1807, and how she continued
there.

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

493

Gaines v. Relf et al,

The account Coxe gives of Caroline Barnes is equally the
subject of remark.
Clark, from 1802 till 1806, was not in Philadelphia. In his
testimony, he says, Clark's letters contained no allusions to Caroline Barnes. In his testimony, 1185 (10 and 11,) he says that
Caroline Barnes went to Trenton to school in 180.5. On page
998 he speaks of Clark's personal observation of her health, and
personal directions for her removal; of his affectionate interest
and tenderness. What knowledge could he have of these transactions? Clark, from 1808 till 1813, only visited Philadelphia
a single time, and then to settle and dissolve his transactions
with Coxe. The letters in the record show that Clark spent the
vacation between the sessions of Congress in Louisiana. Additional observations are to be made upon Coxe himself. The
letters, from Coxe, seem strongly to indicate that he is not deserving of implicit credit. This witness needs to be sustained
himself; he cannot contribute to destroy the credit of another.
The testimony of the sisters, (Despau and Caillevet) has
been assailed. Against the character of the latter nothing has
been said. Her husband testifies in his last will to her excellence, and none have appeared to dispute her title to the commendation.
Madame Despau has been assailed. The testimony consists
of the loose statements of a rout of witnesses who say that
she was reputed to be a galantefemme; that nothing good was
said of her; that she was spoken of in the same terms as her sister. And the record of a proceeding had by her husband against
her when she accompanied Zulime to the United States in 1807.
This proceeding was ex parte. The evidence impugns Mad.
Despau only for having abandoned Despau. I hardly need to
state that none of thistestimony is admissible to impeach her
credit. Phil. Ev. 291, 292; 13 Johns. Rep. 504; 3 S. & R. 337;
Hill & Cowen's Notes, 768.
The life of Mad. Despau from 1808 till the present time answers the calumnies upon her. She returned from the north in
1808; with her children she went to the parish of St. Landry,
and there conducted a small school. The esteem and confidence
of her neighbors attached to her. Her daughters were eligibly
established in marriage, and under their kindness she is now
sustained and supported.
Had she been Clark's mistress would she have been left penniless? Has not the exemplary life of forty years been sufficient to vindicate her fame? Has not the fact that her husband
made no contribution to his family, but left his chlldren to her,
proven the falsehood of his charges upon her?
We have considered the parties up to 1808. Let us consider
VOL. XII.
42

494

SUPREME COURT.
Gaines v. Relf et al.

the effect of the conduct in 1808. Both parties, Clark and Zulime, we have said, may have consideredI particular evidence
needful for the validity of their marriage.
Their opinion does not affect the case. Lord Eldon has said
on such facts: .Iam exceedingly anxious to press upon your
lordships' attention this is what I take to be an indisputable
proposition of law, namely, that if you '3nd there-was a marriage duly celebrated, actually had, that marriage cannot be got
rid of by evidence of facts and circumstances done or observed
by persons afterwards thinking it proper to disentangle themselves from the connection of marriage, actuated by caprice, dislike of each other, or a base motive of inducing other persons to
think that they may form matrimonial connections with the parties. When once you have got clearly to the conclusion that a
marriage has been had, let the consequences be what they may
with respect to third persdns, that marriage must be sustained."
2 Bligh, N. S. 489.
The French jurists are equally explicit. In a court where the
solemn admission< and oath of the first wife were produced to
establish that she was not a wife, the advocate-general declares:
"It is pfetended that Margaret Doros has renounced her status;
but without examining if it is her, dr a fictitious representative
who has spoken in these acts, whether they were prepared or
fabricated by her husband, or whether she consented freely, or
executed them under a surprise, menace, or through fear of violeice, it is sufficient to say the renunciation is vicious, and produces no effect. The status of a wife is such that she cannot
dispose of it. All the efforts to impair or to destroy it are nugatory."
Clark's conduct to his child after the marriage of Zulime to
Gardette seems to have been more anxious. "He passed much
time with her," says Mxs. Davis. He expressed intense anxiety
and ambition for her. He felt that he could make no public
declaration without compromising himself and compromising
Mrs. Gardette. We may well understand that he was beset
with difficulties and vexations on the subject. We can understand that when he resolved, by an open and palpable acknowledgment, furnishing to her a charter of her rights, that it would
afford him infinite relief. Such is the testimony in the record.
The will would have been a simple nullity if the plaintiff was
a bastard. The father was prohibited from executing such an
instrument. There was no occasion to steal it or to suppress it.
The law had already pronounced on it a sentence of condemnation. The person who abtracted such a will must have believed
in the legitimacy of Myra. De la Croix, who desired to find
the will, Pitot and Bellechasse, whose indignation was awaken d
by its loss must have kn'own its legal effect

DECEMBER TERM,

1851.

495

Gaines v. Relf et al.

The absence of that will and the cause of its absence; the
absence of all papers, letters, memoranda of Clark determining
the legitimacy of his daughter; the nature of his long connection with her mother, speak trumpet-tongued. These defendants,
Chew and R'elf, were early put upon their guard. They could
not have failed to hear of the contents of that lost will. Relf
sets himself to work to conciliate De la Croix, and succeeds. He
winds himself about Bellechasse, and seeks first through Coxe
and then by an artful letter of his own, to induce him to betray
the trust he had assumed for the plaintiff.
Suppose the act of sale spoken of had been annulled under
the "pure and simple" authoritythat Relf sought for from Bellec~asse, what would have been the condition of Bellechasse in
reference to this transaction? How much would his testimony
have been impaired?
All of Clark's correspondence come to the possession of Chew
and Relf after the death of Clark. Whatever he wrote; whatever he received, fell under their inspection. They knew his
acquaintances, his intimates. They could have afforded full
information to this court of all the obscure and doubtful circum
stances in this case. Give to us the contents of the black case;
about which Clark was so"anxious in his last sickness, and we
will undertake to do so. On whom does the odium spoliatoris
in this case rest? Who is it that has concealed a part of the
testimony, and attempted to adulterate the remainder?
Another fact in the case is noticeable. Coxe affects even to
the last to doubt the plaintiff's connection to Clark. At the
date of the mother's, (Mrs. Clark's) will, she was living with
Colonel Davis as his daughter. Whywas it necessary to proclaim
her illegitimacy in the will of Mary Clark, her grandmother, accompanied as it was with no substantial benefit?
If the conduct of Relf and Coxe had been deliberately directed to the suppression or the alteration of the evidences of the
plaintiff's legitimacy, it would hardly have been different from
what it appears on this record.
This review of the testimony of the case is surely sufficient
to exhibit the truth of the plaintiff's claim. We have not forgotten the opinion heretofore given by this court upon much
of the evidence in this record, nor do we diminish or undervalue
the importance of that opinion by discussing anew what- has
been so well considered.
The counsel for the appellees made twenty-seven points.
Only two parts of the argument will be given at any length, those
two being connected more especially with the points upon which
the decision of the court turned. The general features of the
case dwelt upon were, the depositions and character of Madame

496

SUPREME COURT.
Gaines v. Relf et al.

Despau; the alimony, ecclesiastical and divorce records and the
conduct of Zulime in declaring herself to be the wife of Desgrange; her conduct afterwards in going in search of the certificate of her marriage when she had a living witness of it by her
side, and the inconsistency of her marrying Gardette with a belief that she was the wife of Clark; the utter improbability that
Clark would have offered marriage to several ladies of high character and connections if he knew that hewas already married; and
the testimony to depreciate the character of Zulime for chastity.
With -espect to the different depositions of Madame Despau,
whose evidence was taken three times, viz., in 1839, 1845, and
1849, the counsel (Mr. Duncan,) remarked as follows:
Having thus declared the field for a fair, full, and impartial
investigation, I proceed to the examination of the case.
First. Was Daniel Clark ever married to Zulime N~e Carriere,
the mother of the complainant, Myra? We hold the negative
of this question. Then, 1st, We say that the complainant,
holding the affirmative, must make it perfectly njanifest beyond
all reasonable doubt. This is the more incumbent on them as
it is not pretended that Daniel Clark and this woman ever gave
to the public any of the usual manifestations of such a connection. Indeed, strange as it may appear, the parties here aver
that there were none of those usual ordinary and appropriate
evidences given by the persons whom she claims to have been
her father and mother, which all individuals in all Christian lands
hold out to the world as the appropriate evidence of the existence of a marital relation.
Let us now take up this first point, as a question of evidence,
and see how it stands. Was Daniel Clark ever married to Zulime N6e Carri re, the mother of Myra? The affirmative of
this proposition is sworn to in the most unqualified manner by
Madame Sophia Despau, as a fact which took place in her own
presence. This is stating her testimony as fully and broadly as
I can possibly do it. It is here to be remarked that it is a
strange and singular thing, which can but attract attention,
that but one witness can be found to testify to a marriage of
such a man as was Daniel Clark! That he lived twelve years
after this supposed interesting fact, and yet amidst his family and
friendly letters, which are as abundant as the leaves of the forest, there can be found not the most distant reference to this
most important fact.
As Madame Despau is the only witness who swears that she
was present and saw the marriage, I will at once review the
case as based upon her tdstimony.
The answer of the defendants is u~ider oath, and this meets
her testimony, unless she is sustained by other strong corres-

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.
Gaines v. Relf et al.

ponding facts and circumstances. Whether she is so sustained
will be seen in the progress of this inquiry.
In equity the answer of the defendant is conclusive in his
favor, unless it is overcome by satisfactory testimony of two
opposing witnesses, or of one witness swearing positively, and
such other facts a's are equal to the unqualified testimony of
another witness. 2 Story's Eq. 743, 744; 2 Atk. 19; Id.
140; 1 Yes. 97; 6 Yes. 40; 9 Id. 275, 283; 12 Id. 78; 18 Ves.
12-335; 9 Cranch, 160; 1 Johns. Ch. R. 459,462; 2 Fonbl. B. 6i
Ch. 2, sect. 2, note g; 2 Ves. jr. 243; 2 Johns. Ch. R. 88, 89, 90.
The witness Despau was examined under oath in June, 1839.
Then, in answer to the second question put to her, without
hesitation or equivocation she swears as follows: "Daniel Clark
was married in Philadelphia, in 1803, by a catholic priest. ]
was present at this marriage." She subsequently, in rather an
awkward manner, says that this marriage of Daniel Clark was
with her sister Zulime, and that of this marriage Myra was the
only issue. On the 16th day of October, 1846, this same witness Despau is again examined. The mind will naturally pause
here to inquire whether accounts, given at two perio& of more
than six years apart, and before different magistrates, agree in
all essential particulars. One of the most powerful instruments in the investigation of tratl is where sever'al witnesses,
at different times and places, without possible collusion, agree
in all material particulars in their account of the same transaction. The best of writers on this part of the system of laws
agree that it is a high evidence of the integrity, of the witnesses
where there are small differences in their account of the same
transaction, and for the sensible reason that it shows an entire
,absence of collusion. On the other hand, where there is a striking similitude in the very language of different witnesses, it
raises a suspicion at once of collusion, and demands an explanation and further circumstantial support. By the same process
of reasoning let us look at these two statements of Madame
Despau. They are six years separated in point of time, they
are taken before different mugistrates, and yet we find the witness not only agreeing with herself in the general accoujtwhich ought to be expected of all honest witnesses - but the
very language is used by the magistrates in taking down her
several statements on the two occasions, and in precisely the
same language, as far as it goes. Now, then, I say that one of
two things happened-there was either collusion or a miracle
on this last occasion? No witness can recount a transaction
thus, under such circumstances, in the fading period of life to
which she had arrived. The thing is impossible.
There was no miracle in the business. There was but one
42

498

SUPREME COURT.
Gaines v. Relf et al.

way of accounting for this thing. The greatest power which
a court of chancery has in preventing collusion had been broken
down. Publication of her first statement had been made. The
seals had been broken; a copy of her first testimony was in her
hand when she made her second statement, or what is worse,
and more probable from her simple inspection of the face of the
deposition, it was prepared for. her, and she signed what had
been previously prepared. The magistrate disobeyed the very
letter of the commission addressed to him by the court, -that
commission is very comprehensive, direct, and simple. But the
"trust and confidence" of the court, in the integrity and ability
of the magistrate, have been abused. The whole was a concocted affair, got up, no doubt, out of the presence of the magistrate. And this is the precious testimony upon which the
court is asked to base a judgment decreeing on earth - what
was never registered in heaven -that Daniel Clark had married
Zulime Ne Carri~re.
There is in this statement, or rather statements of the witness
Despau, this feature to be remembered, that. the facts above referred to show deliberation, purpose, care, design, as well as
preparation. She belongs to the household of this suit; it is
not doing ner injustice, therefore, to suppose that her testimony
has been the subject of repeated and deliberate consultations
before it was delivered. Its force and effect have been well
considered. This very citadel of the case has been duly and
thoroughly examined, with a critic's eye. It has doubtless been
considered not only in its relations and bearings upon the complainant's case, but all possible guards have been thrown around
it against the approach of the adversary. There is, then, no
room left for mistake. The time, the place, and the circumstances have all been detailed. The story is told; and so true
is it (God save the mark!) that six years afterwards, in relating
it for the second time, no words can be found so very appropriate as the exact words used before to convey this important
fact. Then she is ready to stand or fall by it.
Before going into the interesting comparison of the testimony
of the witness Despau, with other measures of truth, I beg
leave for a moment to revert to the isaue on this point as tendered by the complainant's bill, and accepted by the defendants
in their answer. The original bill was filed in this court on the
28th day of July, 1836. On the 11th day of December, 1848,
the last amended bill was filed. Thus the parties have themselves had twelve years and over four months to conform their
averments to their facts, and after all this time and consideration, we find that on the day last mentioned an amended bill is
filed, and in it we meet with the following averment on the behalf of the complainant:

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

499

Gaines v. Relf et al.

"That the said Daniel Clark was lawfully married with Zulime Ne Carri~re, at the city of Philadelphia, in the State of
Pennsylvania, in or about the latter part of the year 1802, or
the early part of the year 1803, with the observance of the necessary requisitions of the laws of Pennsylvania for the solemnization of the marriage contract, and that your oratrix is the
sole offspring or issue of said lawful marriage." Page 86 of the
original record, restored by stipulation on file.
Now, then, we have fairly before us the averment upon the
turning point of complainant's case. It is clear and distinct,
thbugh there is a considerable margin reserved in the expressions "the latter part of 1802, and the early part of 1803." Yet
we shall not complain, and I propose to allow them the grace
of three months in each of those years, making a field of inquiry
of six months, or from the 1st of October, 1802, to the 1st of
'April, 1803. I believe that the court will think with me that
this is a sufficient allowance to one who has taken so long a
time in adjusting the time to her facts, with the aid of her
mother at her side. The day of a woman's marriage is one of
the most important in her life, which no time or circumstances
can obliterate from her mind. She can always tell the very
day, with all its attendant circumstances, and it would have
been no more than right if I had exacted a positive averment
of the very day and the very.place of this great event: great to
the mother of Myra if it had been true, because it would have
changed the whole current of events in her eventful and romantic career.
The defendants take issue upon the foregoing quotation from
the amended bill of the complainants, and aver that it is not
true. They aver that Daniel Clark was not married to Zulime
N
Carri~re, in Philadelphia, in the latter part of the year
1802, or the early part of the year 1803.
I will proceed now with our examination of the testimony of
complainants on this point, and then show by that of the defendailts that the whole pretension is an utter fabrication.
What is the testimony of the complainant on this point?
They have one witness who swears most positively that she saw
the marriage, and that it took place in Philadelphia. This is
the only witness (MVrs. Despau) who thus testifies. Her testimony, which I have before referred to, it must be observed, is
not the testimony of the same witness now relied upon by the
complainant. Far fr6m it. They, on the contrary, began to
penetrate into the storehouse of the defendants' muniments of
war. They began to see, to comprehend, and to feel, the force
of the evidence which was soon to overwhelm that witness and
to sink her, and with her the/complainant's case, ifnto "the re-

500

SUPREME COURT.
Gaines v. Relf et al.

ceptacle of things lost on earth." The case, and the witness
must stand together; if one falls the other sinks,-if one is
blasted the other is ruined; and a gallant struggle must now be
made to rescue both one and the other. Accordingly, and for
the first time, with any regard to the proprieties of any of the
rules of chancery practice, in the month of February, 1849, the
complainant propounds her interrogatories, and the defendants
again propound their cross-interrogatories. To these questions
do we hear the same old song sung again, set to the same old
tune? Ah! by no means. She now swears as positively as she
did before to the marriage, and to her presence at the place; but
when she comes to speak of the time, - ah! there is the rub, she begins to falter, hesitate, and doubt. We look here in vain
for that bold, open, and unqualified declaration she had twice
before made under oath, and in this case. She now, on the 19th
of March, 1849, swears, "I was present at this marriage. This,
to the best of my recollection, was in the year 1803; although
there are some associations in my memory, which make me
think it not improbable that the marriage may have taken place
in the year 1802. My impression, however, is that the marriage
took place in the year 1803. It was, I remember, a short while
previous to Clark's going to Europe." R. 359.
Who ever saw a more cunningly-devised effort to save a witness than this? Her testimony is here in the record twice told,
and doubly sworn to, declaring, in unqualified language, that
Daniel Clark was married to her sister, in Philadelphia, in the
year 1803! Who gave her the alarm? Who cried out to her
that she was standing over a volcano ? Who prepared the
bridge for her escape, if escape she has made? Then she swore
positively, - now she has it to the best of her recollection.
Then she swore it was in 1803,- now she believes it to have
been in 1803, "although theie are some associations in my memory, which makes me think it not improbable that the marriage may have taken place in the year 1802." I think if this
witness should ever happily read the testimony in this case, she
will have other "associations in her memo-7," which will make
hier think that she was-entirely mistaken in the whole business,
and that there was no marriage whatever! If she does not, I
imagine that her conceptiona are formed of far different materials from that which form the minds of your Honors. Why
Pas it that she imagined it possible that she could now be mistaken? In 1839 and in 1845 she had no such idea. She was
then much nearer the scene than she was in 1849, and much
more likely to have a correct recollection of the event. But why
the expression -now for the first time found in her testimony, in
.order to fix the period of Daniel Clark's marriage, that "it was,

DECEMBER
Gaines v.

TERM,

1851.

Relf et al.

I remember, a short while previous to 1r. Clark's going to Eu-,
rope"? Who put this notion into her head? Was there any
thing in the interrogatory to suggest the idea? I might as well
tell the court plainly and at once that, at the time this last testimony was taken, it had been found out that Daniel Clark had
been in Philadelphia in the year 1802, but not in the latter part.
It was known, or ought to have been known, that we could
prove by the testimony left behind him, by Daniel Clark-himself, that he was not in Philadelphia at any period of the latter
part of 1802, or in any part of 1803. Hence the necessity for
this witness to retreat from her former position, and, at the same
time to do it in such a delicate manner, and with such consummate tact, as to appear to glide naturally towards the truth -to
strike upon a circumstance which would appear to elucidate the
truth of her statement. Poor short-sighted mortals we are; she
had far better been left upon her original position, because her
advisers knew not what an ignis fatuus was leading them into
a morass fromwhence there could be no escape;
The parties here are to be held to their pleadings. The onus
probandi in this case is with the complainant, according to the
maxim of the civil law, "BE i inczmbet probatio qui dicit, non qui
vegat." Phillips on Ev. 194. This rule is as strict in equity
courts as in courts of law. 2 Daniels, 990.
31r. Duncan then went on to show from letters that Clark was
not in Philadelphia during the latter part of 1802 or during any
part of the year 1803.
Second Point. - I maintain that Daniel Clark could not have
married Zulime N6e Carri~re in 1802 or 1803, because of the legal
impediment then existing, and well known to both parties, that
she was then a married woman. That she was married to Jerome
Desgrange, with strict compliance with every requisition of law,
both ecclesiastical and civil, then in force in Louisiana. See record, pp. 748-751. Indeed, this fact is admitted. It is proved
and admitted, that, at the time of the alleged marriage of Daniel
Clark, Jerome Desgrange was living. We interpose this impediment. We are met by the allegation that this is no impediment, because, at the time Desgrange married Zulime, he had
himself oLliving wife. I now say that there is no proof upon
this point which should be regarded for a moment. Let us
examine it. First, we have a certificate of one Jacob Des,
grange's marriage having taken place in New York. The name
excludes the idea of its being Jerome Desgrange, unless the
plaintiff had followed it up by proof of identity, and that the
very person married in New York, under the name of Jacob,
had married Zulime under the name of Jerome. There is not
in the record even an attempt to prove it. Again, if the certifi.

SUPREME

COURT.

Gaines v. Relf et al.

cate even contained the name of Jerome Desgrange, it would
have been equally obligatory upon plaintiff to have followed up
the certificate by proof of identity; non constat, but there may
have been a dozen Jerome Desgranges in New York; and we
are asked to believe that the one mentioned in the certificate
was the same who married Zulime, contrary to every principle
of law, and in manifest violation of the best rules of justice;
that his marriage with Zulime is to be taken as fair, honest, and
legal. Any other rule would be the grossest injustice to the
name of Desgrange, and cover his grave with dishonor, without
his ever having had an opportunity to be beard, and manifesting
his innocence and his integrity. This court has seen that in the
only case where Desgrange was ever cited, and in which he was
put to the proof of the validity of his marriage with Zulime,
how triumphantly he sustained himself, and in a case, too,
where, if there had been any truth in the accusation, the very
witnesses pr 'siced were the very ones who would have been
most likely to tiavestated the cas6 most strongly, and in a viqdictive spirit, against him -the pretended victims of his crimes.
It should be enough that the home of that man was entered by
a seducer, without now having his memory covered with infamy,
without a trial or a hearing.
But there are other circumstances about this New York certificate which should degrade it. It has been argued as a singular thing, going a great way towards sustaining the genuineness of. that paper, that it has on it the names of the persons,
as witnesses, who had been named by Madame Soumeylliatt,
as the witnesses of her marriage! Sirs, th argument is a
feeble one, and gives rise to the suggestion that the very reversq
is the truth. That lady's testimony was taken on the 6th of
September, 1802. See Record, 711. That miserable certificate is dated on the 11th September, 1806. See Record, 382,
Now the inference which I draw from it is this: that her having
given the names of the witnesses to her marriage with Mr.
Soumeylliatt, suggested the -idea to the person who made that
certificate of putting these names there as witnesses. Why
was not the testimony of some one of those witnesses taken ?
Their death is nowhere shown or pretended. You have -the
oath of both Desgrange and Madame Soumeylliatt, two of the
most important parties in that certificate, testifying directly
against it. That certificate, too, it will be seen, is dated but a
few weeks after the date of Zulime's suit for divorce in 1806.
pp. 382, 768.
Now, then, this attempt to impose this certificate develops
another fact which strongly militates against Madame Despau's
story. She says that when they reached New York, in 1802 or

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.
Gaines v. Relf et al.

1803, to obtain proofs of Desgrange's marriage, they could find
none -the registr was destroyed. But if this certificate was"
given in 1806, then the priest who married Desgrange was alive
and there when Zulime and Madame Despau were in New
York, and could easily have given his testimony or certificate to
them. The certificate professes to be taken from a particular
page of the record. Then there was no such thing as a burnt
record in 1802, as sworn to by this witness. It will be remembered, too, that we find this certificate coming to light through
the hands of Zulime in 1840. Record, 597.
But the certificate, and all of the testimony connected with it,
must be suppressed on a question of law; and this puts an end
to the question at once and forever. This is not a record, or a
copy of a record. It does not profess to be. Then it is a statement, not under oath, of a person who may perhaps be dead.
This statement was not even in the shape of a deposition. If
this paper had even been in the shape of a deposition taken in
a suit, it would be no testimony against these parties, they having been no parties in that proceeding. The parties are not to
be condemned by the testimony of witnesses they never saw or
heard of, and whom they had no opportunity to cross-examine.
1 Starkie's Ev. 260, sect. 99.
In connection with this certificate, we have moved to suppress the whole testimony taken in reference to it. See motion
to suppress, under 12th head. A deposition taken without notice will be suppressed. 1 J. J. Marsh. 525; 2 Daniels, 1140.
The deposition proving this certificate was taken before issue
joined. The deposition was taken in 1846. The issu-e was
joined by plaintiff filing replications to the answer, and pleas of
Chew and Relf, were filed on the 5th of March, 1849. See Record, 203. The replication to Devereaux's answer was filed
26th March, 1849. See Record, 204. The replication to the
answer of Municipality, No. 1, was filed May 21, 1849. The
replication to Rodriguez's answer was filed about the same
time, though the date is not given in the record. The court will
perceive that the answers and pleas of Chew and Relf were filed
on the 14th of January, 1845. There was no necessity, 'ther.
fore, for taking the depositions de bene esse in 1846, for plaintiffs, if they had been disposed, could have taken issue when it
was tendered by Chew and Reif, and taken the testimony contradictorily with them. The fact that this was not done' raises a
strong presumption that it was taken in the manner it was for
eome wrongful purpose. Be this as it may, it must be suppressed, because no effort has been made since- issue joined, to
take the testimony in chief. See 2 Daniels, 1111. The only
instances in which testimony can be taken in chancery in a

504

SUPREME COURT.
Gaines v. Rolf et al.

United States Circuit Court, is provided for in the 70th rule
of the Supreme Court. It is to be done after the bill is filed,
and before the defendant has answered, on affidavit, &c., and
even then the rule requires the party to give the adverse party
due notice of the time and place of taking the testimony. Nothing of the sort was done here. It is perfectly clear that depositions taken de ben esse cannot be read, and must be suppressed;
the party has forfeited all right to read them. 2 Daniels, 1119.
All the grounds mentioned in our 12th point for suppressing
testimony are fully sustained; and this deposition should be
laid aside. The testinony being stricken out, the plaintiff has
nothing left to prove any such thing as a previous marriage by
any testimony entitled to belief.
But let us go on with the legal discussion. Suppose that it
has been established that Desgrange had a, former wife, did that
fact authorize Mrs. Desgrange to contract a marriage with Clark
before the former one was dissolved by competent authority. It
must not be forgotten that plaintiffs. own witnesses swear that
the agreement to marry -the contract-was made in Louisiana,
the domicile of both parties. The mere ceremony to consum.
mate it is another subject, which I shall examine. Did this state
of things authorize Zulime to contract marriage? I answer,
certainly and clearly not. If she did marry Clark after marrying
Desgrange, by the laws then in force, it was adultery on her part,
and the fruits of the connection would be an adulterous bastard.
The 8th Book, title 20, Law 4, Nueva Recopilacion, being
translated, reads thus: "Should a woman, either married, or
even only publicly betrothed, before Our Holy Mother the
Church, commit adultery, although she should allege and show
that her marriage is null and void either on accQunt of near
relationship by consanguinity or affnity vithin the 4th degree,
or because one of the spouses was previously bound by another
marriage, or had made a vow of chastity, or Was about entering
a religious community, or had some other reason- yet for all
this she is not to be allowed to do what is forbidden; and she
cannot prevent her husband from bringing a suit for adultery,
both against her and the adulterer, as if the marriage was not a
true one. We decree against such persons-whom we consider
as having committed adultery, (que habemos por adulteros,) the
law of the fuero be strictly followed, which treats about adulterers, and is the first law of this title." See Nueva Rec. Book
8, tit. 20, Law 4.
What can be more clear and conclusive than this? And be
it remembered that this is not an opinion of an elementary writer, but the pbsitive provisions of the law as they were.in force
at the domicil of all these parties. A previous marriage, though

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.
Gaines v. Relf et al.

it is proved to exist, cannot be treated as a nullity. The wife
that ventures to do it, says the law, is guilty of adultery, and the
man who intermarries with her, is an adulterer.
Again, when the law treats of who may marry a second time,
enacts as follows: "Men and women may marty a second time,
.or oftener, after the first marriage is dissolved, either on account
of some legal impediment, or by death." 4 Partida, title 11,
Law 1. This could not be done in Louisiana, until the lapse
of ten months after the dissolution of the previous marriage.,
Old Code, p. 28, art. 31. Before the code of 1808, it was one
year. 4 Partida, title 11, Law 3.
Now, the first law under the same title, and same book, provides, among other things, that if the husband of the woman,
thus acting, should kill both guilty pair, he shall stanJ justified;
and that if he causes them to be put to death, by authority of
justice, that the whole of the property belonging to the guilty
pair should vest in the injured man. So that if Desgrange had
gone in and- killed Clark and Zulime, he would have stood justified, and if he had had them arrested and capital punishment
inflicted upon them both, by due course of law, he would have
been entitled to the property of both of them.
Mr. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion of the court.
This cause comes here by appeal from the decree of the Circuit Court of the Eastern District of Louisiana, where the bill
was dismissed.
The complainant sues as the only legitimate child of the late
Daniel Clark, who died in the city of New Orleans the 13th of
Augusf, 1813. No account is prayed against Daniel Clark's
executors; but the complainant seeks to recover the property
sold by them, consisting of lands and slaves, on the ground that
her father could not deprive her, as his legitimate child, of more
than one fifth part of his estate by a last will, according to the
laws of Louisiana as they stood in 1813. And she maintains
that the sales made by Chew and Relf, were made without any
orders of court to authorize them, and that therefore they are
void; the laws of Tiouisiana requiring such orders before a valid
sale could be made.
The respondents claim under a will made by Daniel Clark in
1811, by which he devised all his property, real and personal, t9
his mother, Mary Clark, and appointed Richard Relf and Beverly
Chew, his executors; and to whom Mary Clark made a power
to sell Daniel Clark's estain for the purpose of raising money to
pay his.debts. Che* and Relf,acting as executors of Daniel
Clark and also as attorneys of Mary Clark, did sell the property
in controversy for the purpose of paying the debts of the tesVOL

IX'

506

SUPREME COURT.
Gaines v. Relf et al.

tator. To meet this claim of title, the complainant insists, 1st,
That the sales made.by Chew and Relf, as executors, were made
without orders from the court of probate to authorize them, and
are void 2nd, That Mary Clark had not accepted in legal form,
the bequest of her son-when she conveyed by her attorneys; and
that therefore, her conveyances cannot be ret'ed on by her vendees
to support the plea of innocent purchaser.
On the 10th day of June, 1844, the mothdr of the complainant,
styling herself Madame Marie Zulime Carriere, and widow of
the late Daniel Clark, by her notarial act, made in the city of
New Orleans, accepted, without benefit of inventory, the community of acquests and gains of one moiety, which it is alleged
existed between her and her late husband Daniel Clark, according to the laws in such cases provided. And on the 2d of July,
1844, the then complainants, Gaines and wife, among other
amendments to their bill, filed the following: "Your oratrix
alleges that she is entitled to the one moiety of the estate of
which the said Daniel Clark died possessed, by reason of-a conveyance thereof. made to her by M. Z. Gardette, the widow of
the said'Clark, and the mother of your or:-trix, on the 7th day
of May, 1836, and which is hereunto annexed, marked A. B. and
prayed to be taken as part hereof; and the mother of your oratrix did thereafter, on the 20th June, 1844, further convey to her
all her interest in said estate, as appears by her act, a copy of
which is herewith exhibited, marked C.; the whole of said estate
having been acquired during the coverture of said Clark and
wife."
The exhibits in these particulars correspond to the allegations.
It follows, therefore, that the complainant clairhs one half of
Daniel Clark's estate by a conveyance from her mother,
The first and most important of the issues presented is that
of the legitimacy of the complainant. It is raised, by the following pleadings:
She alleges that herfather, Daniel Clark, was married to Zulime N~e Carriere, in the city of Philadelphia, in the year 1802 or
1803; and that she is the legitimate, and the only legitimate
offspring of that marriage.
The defendants deny that Daniel Clark was married to said
Zulime at the time and place alleged, or at any other time or
place. And they further aver, that at the time said marriage is
alleged to have taken place, the said Zulime was the lawful wife
of one Jerome Desgrange.
If the mother of the complainant was the lawful wife of
Jerome Desgrange at the time said Zulime is alleged to have
intermarried with Daniel Clark; then the marriage with Clark is
merely void; and it is immaterial whether it did or did not take

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

507

Gaines v. Relf et al.

place. And the first question we propose to examine is, as to
the fact, whether said Zulime was Desgrange's lawful wife in
1802 or 1803.
A formal record of the marriage between Desgrange and
Marie Julia Carri~re, obtained from the cathedral catholic
church at New Orleans, is before us. That it is a true record
of said marriage is not controverted. Marie Julia is designated
Zulime, by a soubriquet or nickname, which is proved to have
been a common custom in Louisiana at that time. The marriage was solemnized in due form on the 2d day of December,
1794. This is admitted on part of the complainant. The parties cohabited together as man and wife for seven or eight years.
This is also conceded by both sides. To rebut and overcome
the established fact of this marriage, it is alleged that previous
to Desgrange's marriage with Zulime he had lawfully married
another woman, who was living when he married Zulime, and
was still his wife; and that therefore, the second marriage was
void. And this issue we are called on to try.
The marriage with Desgrange having been proved, it was
established as primd facie true, that Zulime was not the lawful
wife of Clark, and the onus of proving that Desgrange had a
former wife living when he married Zulime was imposed on the
complainant; she was bound to prove the affimative fact that
Desgrange committed bigamy. To establish such previous
marriage and the consequent bigamy by marrying a second
time, much evidence was introduced and relied on by the complainant The first witness whose testimony will be referred to
was Madame Despau, sister of Zulime, Her testimony has
been taken three times; first in 1839, then in 1845, and again in
1849.
In 1839 she says, "I was well acquainted with the late Daniel Clark, of New Orleans. He was married in Philadelphia in
1803, by a catholic priest. I was present at this marriage.
One child was born of that marriage, to wit: Myra Clark, who
married William Wallace Whitney. I was present at her birth
and knew that Mr. Clark claimed and acknowledged her to be
his child. She was born in 1806. I neither knew nor had any
reason to believe, that-any other child, besides Myra, was born
of that marriage. The circumstances of her marriage with
Daniel Clark were these: Several years after her marriage with
Desgrange, she heard he had a living wife; our family charged
him with the crime of bigamy in marrying said Zulime; he at
first denied it, but afterwards admitted i4 and fled from the
country. These circumstances became pubjic, and Air. Clark
made proposals of marriage to my sister, with the knowledge of
all our family. It was considered essential first to obtain re-

508

SUPREME COURT.
Gaines v. Relf it al.

cord-proof of Desgrange having a living wife at the time he
married my sister; to obtain which, from the records of the
catholic church in New York, (where AL. Desgrange's prior
marriage was celebrated,) we sailed for that city. On our arrival there, we found that the registry of marriages had been
destroyed. Mr. Clark arrived after us. We heard that a Mr.
Gardette, then living in Philadelphia, was one of the witnesses to
Mr. Desgrango's prior marriage. We proceeded to that city,
and found Mr. Gardette. He answered, that he was present at
said prior marriage of Desgrange, and that he afterwards knew
Desgrange and his wife by this marriage; that his wife had
sailed for France. Mr. Clark then said, 'You have no reason
longer to refuse being married to me; it will, however, be necessary to keep our marriage secret till I have obtained judicial
proof of the nullity of your and Desgrange's marriage.' They,
the sad Clark and the said Zulime, were then married. Soon
afterwards, our sister, Madame Caillavet, wrote to us from New
Orleans that Desgrange's wife, whom he had married prior to
marrying said Zulime, had arrived at New Orleans. We hastened our return to New Orleans. He was prosecuted for bigamy; father Antoine, of the catholic church, taking part in the
proceedings against Desgrange. Mr. Desgrange ""as condemned
for bigamy in marrying the said Zulime, and was cast into prison; from which he secretly escaped by connivance, and was
where
he gotthe
D'Orgenois,
intoMississippi
a vessel, escaped
River byfrom
Mr. LeBreton
taken down
the country,
an a
ccording to the best of my knowledge and belief, never afterwards
a great
in 1803,'innot
happened
This
to the
Louisiana.
returned
Spanish
government
Louisiana.
before
close of the
while
Mr. Clark told us that before he could promulgate his marriage
with my sister, it would be necessaxy that there should be
brought by her an action against the name of Desgrange. The
anticipated change of government created delay; but at length,
in 1806, Mr. James Brown and Eligius Froraentin, as the counsel
of my sister, brought suit against the name of Desgrange, in the
city court, I think, of New Orleans. The grounds of said suit
were, that Desgrange had imposed himself upon her at a time
when he had a living lawful wife. Judgment in said suit was
rendered against said Desgrange. Mr. Clark still continued to
defer promulgating his marriage with my sister, which very
much fretted and irritated her feelings. Mr. Clark became a
member of the United States Congress, in 1806. Whilst he
was in Congress my sister heard he was courting Miss C., of
Baltimore. She was much distressed, though she could not believe the report, knowing herself to be his wife. Still, his strange
conduct in dsferring to promulgate his marriage with her had

DECEMBER TERM,

1851.

509

Gaines v. Relf et &i.

alarmed her. She and I sailed for Philadelphia to get proof of his
marriage with my sister. We could find no record, and were told
that the priest who married her and Mr. Clark had gone to Ireland.
My sister then sent for Daniel W. Coxe; mentioned to him the
rumor; he answered that he knew it to be true that he (Clark,)
was engaged to her, (Miss C.) My sister replied that it could
not be so. He then told her that she would not be able to establish her marriage with Clark if he were disposed to contest it.
He advised her to take counsel, and said he would send one. A
Mr. Smyth came and told my sister that she could not legally
establish her marriage with Clark, and pretended to read to her a
letter in English, (a language then unknown to my sister,) from
Mr. Clark to Mr. Coxe, stating he was about to marry Miss C.
In consequence of this information, my sister Zulime came to
the resolution of having no further connection or intercourse
with Mr. Clark, and soon afterwards married Mr. Gardette, of
Philadelphia. The witness further states that she became acquainted with Desgrange in 1793. He was a nobleman by
birth, and married Zulime when she was thirteen years old.
Zulime had two children by him, a boy and a girl; the boy
died, the girl is living, (1839;) her name is Caroline, and married to Dr. Barnes. Witness was present at the birth of these children. The marriage of Zulime was a private one. Besides the
witness, Mr. Dorsier, of New Orleans, and an Irish gentleman,
a friend of Mr. Clark, from New York, were present at the marriage. A catholic priest performed the ceremony.
In regard to the children, born of the marriage of Zulime and
Desgrange, this witness further states in another deposition,
that before the detection of Desgiange's bigamy, said Zulime
had a don, who died, and a daughter called Caroline, which
bore his name. Since the death of Mr. Daniel Clark, Mr. Daniel
W. Coxe and Mr. Hulings, of Philadelphia, gave her the name of
Caroline Clark, and took her to Mr. Clark's mother, and introduced her as the daughter of her son. She of course believed their
story, which induced her in her will to leave a portion of her
property to Caroline. Caroline was born in 1801.
I never heard Mr. Clark acknowledge his having any natural
children; but have only heard him acknowledge one child, and
that a lawful one, to wit, said Myra.
Her other depositions substantially correspond with the foregoing statement so far as they bear on the question of Desgrange's bigamy.
The next most important witness is Madame Caillavet, another sister of Zulime. She was also three times examined. Her
first deposition was taken at New Orleans, in May, 1835, in
which she states: That sometime after the marriage of her sis.

SUPREME COURT.
Gaines v. Relf et al.

ter with Mr. Desgrange, her sister discovered that M
r, Desgrange had been previously married: that in order to ascertain this fact, she went to Philadelphia, in the absence of
her husband who was in France; that whilst at Philadelphia,
Desgrange returned from France to New Orleans, and at
the same time, or a very short time after, his first wife made
her appearance in New Orleans. Upon this, -witness immediately apprised her sister of this fact and she returned immediately to New Orleans. On the arrival cf the said first wife
of Desgrange, she complained to the governor, who caused
Desgrange to be arrested; (it was under the Spanish government;) after some time, he obtained his release and left the
country. Before his departure, he confessed that he had been
previously married. Witness understood afterwards from her
sister by letters which she received from her secretly, that she
was married with Mr. Daniel Clark; the preliminaries of the
contemplated marriage were settled by the husband of witness,
at his house in the year 1802 or 1803, in the presence of witness.
In the next deposition she states:
"I have already stated all I knewabout far. Clark's marriage
with Zulime, and of her marriage with Mr. Desgrange. By this
marriage 9he had two children, a boy and a girl; the boy is
dead, the girl is still living; her name is Caroline, and is married
to Dr. Barnes."
The second and third depositions of Madame Caillavet correspond, but as the third one is more full, it is. given. In this
one she states as follows:
" I did reside in the city of New Orleans, obout the year 1800,
and for many years previous; my residence continued there until I went to France, about the year 1807.
"I was acquainted with 'Daniel Clark, late of the city of New
Orleans, deceased; my acquaintance with him commenced
about the year seventeen hundred and ninety-seven; my intima-

cy with him, growing out of his marriage with my sister, continued during my residence in New Orleans.
"Iwas not present at the marriage of Zulime N~e Carri~re (who
is my sister,) with Mr. Clark; but it is within my knowledge,

both from information derived from'my sisters at the time, and
from the statements of Mr. Clark, made to me during his lifetime, that a marriage was solemnized between them. It is to

my pursonal knowledge that Mr. Clark, about the year eighteen
hundred and two, or three, made proposals of marriage with *my
sister Zulime, with the knowledge of all our family. These proposals were discussed, and the preliminaries of the marriage ar
ranged by my husband, at his house, in my presence. But my

DECEMiBER TERM, 1851.

511

Gaines v. Relf et al.

sister, having been previously married to one Jerome Desgrange,
who was found to have had a lawful wife living, at the time of
his (Desgrange's) marriage -with her, the marriage with Mr. Clark
could not take place until proofs of the invalidity of her mairiage with Desgrange were obtained. To procure these proofs
from public records, my sisters Zulime, and Madame Despan,
went to the north of the United States, where Desgrange's prior
marriage was said to have taken place. While there, my sister
Zulime wrote to me that she and Mr. Clark were married.
There was born of this marriage one, and only one child, a female, named Myra, who was put by Mr. Clark, while an infant,
under the charge of Mrs. Samuel B. Davis, in whose family she
was brought up and educated. Having suffered from hired
nurses, she was nursed, through kindness, for some time after
her birth, by Mrs. Harriet Harper, wife of William Haiper, the
nephew of Col. Samuel B. Davis. Mr. Clark stated to me, "frequently, that Myra was his lawful and only child. This child is'
the same person who was married to William Wallace Whitney; and who is now, the wife of General Edmund P. Gaines,
of the United States army. I have always understood that the
marriage between my sister and Mr. Clark was a private one,
and that it was not promulgated by Mr. Clark, in his lifetime,
unless he did so in a last will, made a short time previous to his
death. I have heard that such a last will was made, but.it was
believed to have been suppressed or destroyed after his death.
"I was acquainted with Mr. Jerome Desgrange, for the first
time, in New Orleans, about the year seventeen hundred and
ninety-five. He passed for an unmarried man, and as such im.
posed himself on my sister Zulime. Some years after this marriage, it became known in New Orleans, that he had a prior
lawful wife living. My sister immediately separated from him,
and came to reside with her family. At a later period, Mr. Des.
grange was prosecuted, found guilty of bigamy, in having married my sister Zulime, and cast into prison. He escaped from
prison, as it was reported at the time, by the Spanish governor's
connivance. I understood that Mr. LeBreton D'Orgenois aided
him to escape from the country. This happened some time
before the transfer of the government of Louisiana to the Ameri-.
cans. The flight of Desgrange from New Orleans is the last I
know of him. I did not myself know the first wife of Desgrange, but it is within my knowledge that she came to New
Orleans, and while there, fully established her pretensions as his
lawful wife."
Another deposition of this witness is found in the record,
taken October 16, 1849; but as it does not differ from the foregoing depositions on the question of bigamy, it is not further
noticed.

512

SUPREME

COURT.

Gaines v. Relf et al.

Objections were made on the argument, that the different depositions of these witnesses are contradictory in several respects:
but we have not found them to be so in any material degree.
Madame Despau's, so far as they relate to the question under
examination, are very nearly literal copies of each other; and
Madame Caillavet's are nearly similar to each other.
Joseph D. D. Bellechasse, in his deposition, taken in 1834,
states:
"I think it my duty now to declare, what I know to be a fact,
that said Desgrange was condemned for bigamy in marrying
Miss Carri~re (subsequently the mother of Myra,) several years
prior to the birth of said Myra. The prosecution and condemnation of said Desgrange for said crime of bigamy, took place
at New Orleans towards the close of the Spanish domination in
Lomsiana; his first and lawful wife, whom he had married previous to his coming to Louisiana, (as it was proved,) coming to
New Orleans in pursuit of him. When said Desgrange practised theinfamous deception of marrying Miss Carri~re, it was
the current opinion in New Orleans, that he was a bachelor, or
a single man."
Madame Bengueril, in her deposition taken in 1836, makes
the following statement:
1"0f. Jerome Desgrange married the said Zulime, which proved
on hii part bigamy, for, after his marriage with the said Zulime,
the lawful wife of said Desgrange, whom he had married previous to his marrying the said Zulime, came to New Orleans,
and he was thrown into prison, from which he escaped, and fled
from Louisiana; this was in the year 1802 or 1803; since that
period I have never seen the said Desgrange, and do not believe
that he ever returned to Louisiana.
"The said lawful wife of the said Desgrange brought with her
to New Orleans proofs of her marriage with the said Desgrange.
The exposure, at that time, of the said Desgrange's bigamy in
marrying the said Zulime, was notoriously known in New Or.
leans.
" My husband and myself were very intimate with the said
Desgrange, and when we reproached him for his baseness in imposing upon the said Zulime, he endeavored to excuse himself
by saying that, at the time of his marrying the said Zulime, he
had abandoned his said lawful wife, and never intended to see
her again."
This is the material evidence on which the complainant relies
to prove Desgrange's bigamy, when he married Zulime Nge
Carrire. What other evidence we may icidentally refer to,
will be stated by the reporter.
To meet and rebut this evidence, the defendants introduced

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

513

Gaines v. Relf et al.

from the records of the cathedral church of the diocese, to
which the city of New Orleans belonged at that period, an ecclesiastical proceeding against Desgrange for bigamy; and which
proceeding, as respondents insist, is the same to which complainant's witnesses refer. The following are the material parts
of that proceeding:
"THE YEAR 1802.
" T. M. T.

"No. 141.
"Criminal proceedings instituted against Geronimo Desgrange for bigamy.
"The vicar-general and governor of the bishoprick, judge.
"Fran'co Bermudez, Notary."
"DECREE. In the city of New Orleans, the 4th day of September, 1802, Thomas Hasset, canonical presbytary of this holy
cathedral church, provisor, vicar-general, and governor of the
bishoprick of this province:
"Says, that it has been publicly stated in this city, that Geronimo Desgrange, who was married in the year 1794, to Maria
Julia Carriere, was at that time married, and is so even now,
before the church, to Barbara Seanbelle, who has just arrived;
and also that the said Desgrange, having arri'ved from France
a few months since, he caused another woman to come here,
whose name will be obtained. It is reported in all the city,
publicly and notoriously, that the said Geronimo Desgrange
has three wives, and not being able to keep secret such an act,
as scandalous as it is opposed to the precepts of our holy
mother church, his excellency has ordered, that in order to proceed in the investigation, and to the corresponding penalty, testimony be produced to substantiate his being a single man,
which the said Desgrange presented, in order to consummate
.his marriage with said Carriere; that all persons shall appear
who can give any information in this matter, and also Desgrange,
with Celestin Lavergne and Antonio Fiomantin, interpreters;
they, the interpreters, first accepting the nomination, and swearing to act as such faithfully. And also, as it has been ascertained that the said Desgrange is about to leave with the last
of these three wives, let him be placed in the public prison, during these proceedings, with the aid of one of the alcades; this
decree serving as an order, which his excellency has approved,
and as such it is signed by me, notary.
"Signed, Thomas Hassett, Before me,
"Franco Bermudez2'
"New Orleans, in the same day it was passed to the Capitular

514

SUPREME COUET.
Gaines v. Relf et al.

House) and audience hall of Don Fran'co Caiqergues, alcade of
this city, and in his jurisdiction, and I notified to his worship
the preceding decree, and of which I have taken note.
" Signed, Fran'co Bermudez."
" New Orleans, 4fh September, 1802.
"Let the request of the governor of the bishoprick be complied with.
Signed, Fran'co Caisergues. Before me,
"Signed, Fran'co'Bermudez.
"In New Orleans on the same day, I, the notary, notified Celestin Lavergne of his appointment as interpreter, and he said
that he accepted it; and swore by God and the Cross, that he
would act well and faithfully in the premises, and he herewith
signs his name.
" Signed, C'tino Lavergne. Fran'co Bermudez.
"On the same day I notified Antonio Fromantin of his apointment as interpreter, who accepted of it, and who swore by
od and the Cross, that he would act well and faithfully in the
premises, and he herewith signs his name.
"'3igned, Antonio Fromantin. Fran'co Bermudez."
Next comes the church record filed as evidence in the cause
establishing the marriage of Desgrange to Maria Julia Nge
Carri~re, which need not be further stated.
The material parts of the subsequent proceeding, are the
following:
" CITATION. In New Orleans, on the same day, I, the under
signed notary, inquired at sundry .places for the residence of
Dona Barbara Jeanbelle, and I was informed she lived in Mr.
Bernard Marigny's house, where I then went, and there gave
notice that., on Monday, the 6th instant, at seven o'clock in the
morning, she must present herself before the tribunal, as per
order of his excellency.
"Signed, Bermudez.

"On the same day, I notified the minister of justice, Jose
Campos, of the preceding decree.
" TESTIMZONY. Testimony of Dona Barbara Jeanbelle. In
the city of New Orleans, on the 6th of September, 1802, appeared before Mr. Thomas Hassett, presbytary canon of this holy
cathedral church, provisor, vicar-general, and governor of the
bishoprick of this province and the Floridas, Dona Barbara Margarita Jeanbelle de Orsy, who was sworn to tell the truth, and
the following questions were then propounded to her:

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

515

Gaines v. Relf et al.

1st If she knows Geronimo Desgrange; how long, and where
did she know him?
Answers: That she has known him for-sixteen years, and that
she was acquainted with him in New York.
2d. Being asked whether it is true that she was married to
the aforesaid Desgrange, in what place, in what church, how
long ago, in what parish, by what clergyman, and who were the
witnesses?
Answers: No, although it was her intention to marry the
aforesaid Desgrange; but as the latter was going away, she
changed her mind; nevertheless, she obtained the permission of
her father to go to Philadelphia for that purpose, and that while
there Desgrange begged of her to come to this city to consummate the marriage, to which she did not. consent; this took
place about eleven years and a half ago.
Being asked whether she was acquainted with Desgrange in
France, after the period above stated, and if she has ever spoken
to him on the subject?
Answers: That last year she saw him in Bordeaux, and that
-she did not again speak to him of the marriage, because they
were both of them married.
Being asked that, if she says she is married, with whom is
she married, how long since, in what place, by what clergyman,
and who were the witnesses?
Answers: That she is married to Don JAan Santiago Sonmeylliat, about ten years ago, in the city of Philadelphia, by a
catholic priest, and that Mr. Bernardy and his wife were witnesses.
Being asked if she has any document to prove it?
Answers: That she has no document to prove it.
Being asked if she has not heard- it said that Desgrange is
married to three wives, say to whom, and if it is not public and
notorious ?
Answers: That she never heard any thing of what is asked
her until last night, when she was told that it was said she was
one of his wives, and she says ihat what she has declared is the
truth; and the testimony having been read to her, which was
interpreted by Don Celestino Lavergne, and Don Antonio Fromantin, she declared it was what she had said, and she now
ratifies it; that she is thirty-four years old.
"Signed, B. M. Zambeil De Orsi, Hasset,
"C'tino Lavergne, Antonio Fromentin.
"Before me, Fran'co Bermudez2
"TESTIOIONY OF MARIA YLLAR.
In the city of New Orleans,
on the same day, month, and year, appeared before his excel-

SUPREME COURT.
Gaines v. Relf et al.

lency, Maria Yllar, who, being sworn to tell the truth, the following questions were propounded to her:
Being asked whether she is married or not, how long it is since
she arrived in this city, and with what object:
Answers: That she is the widow of Juan Dupor, alias Poul6,
who died two years, ago, to whom she was married aboutyears; that she has never had any other husband, neither before
nor since; that she arrived here two days ago, and that her object was to gain a livelihood, having been informed itwas a good
country for seamstresses.
Being asked if she knows Geronimo Desgrange, how long,
and if she was invited or told by him to come to this city, and
with what object:
Answers: That she knew Geronimo Desgrange in France
about eight months ago, and it was he who told her to come to
this city, where she could gain a better livelihood than in her
own country.
Being asked whether she was promised marriage to the said
Geronimo Desgrange, or if she has entcred into any private
contract with reference to matrimony, or any other contract with
him:
Answers: That she has not had any contract of the kind
with the said Desgrange, because she knew, before her departure
from France, that he was married in Louisiana; and that her
coming here was only with the object that she has already
stated.
Being asked [if] she had promised the said Desgrange to accompany him in the voyage he is gding to make to France:
Answers: That fsr from accompanying Desgrange during
his voyage, she thinks of remaining in the house of Cornelius
Ploy, alias Flamand, to whom she has been recommended by
the said Desgrange, for the purpose of gaining her livelihood by
sewing, as the said Flamand is a tailor by trade.
Being asked if she has heard it publicly said that Desgrange
has been married to two women before or since her arrival in
this city.
Answers: That before her arrival she had heard nothing of
the matter; but since she has been here she has heard it said
publicly that Desgrange has been married three times; she
swears that what she has aid is the truth, and that she is
twenty-five years old; she does not sign, not knowing how to
write.
"Signed, Hasset, Antonio Fromentin, C'tino Lavergne.
"Before me, Franco. Bermudez.
" TESTIMONY OF MARIA JULIA CARRIErE.

Then appeared be-

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.
Gaines v.

517

Relf et al.

fore his excellency Mlaria Julia Carri~re, who, through the interpreters, was duly sworn to tell the truth, and the following questions were propounded to her.
Being asked whether she was married or single:
Answers: That she is married to Geronirno Desgrange, since
the 4th of December, 1794.
Being asked whether she heard, before or since her marriage,
that her said husband was married to another woman:
Answers: That about a year since she heard it stated, in this
city, that her husband was married in the north, and, in consequence, she wished to ascertain whether it was true or not, and
she left this city for Philadelphia and New York, where she used
every exertion to ascertain the truth of the report, and she learned
only that he had courted a woman, whose father not consenting
to the match, it did not take place, and she married another man
shortly afterwards.
Being asked whether she had recently heard that her husband
was married to three women, if she believed it, or does believe
it, or has any doubt about the matter which renders her unquiet
or unhappy:
Answers: That although she has heard so in public, she has
not believed it, and the report has caused her no uneasiness, as
she is satisfied that it is not true; she also swears that she is
twenty-two years old.
Signed, Iarie Zulime Carriere Desgrange, Hasset, his mark,
O'tino Lavergne, Antonio Fromentin.
Before me, Franco. Bermudez."
"TEsTIO v or GERONimo DESGRANGE. In the city of New
Orleans, on the 7th day of September, 1802, Thomas Hasset,
presbyter canon of this holy cathedral church, provisor vicargeneral, and givernor of this bishoprick of this province, caused to
come before him and in presence of the interpreters, Geronimo
Desgrange, who was duly sworn to tell the truth, replied to the
following interrogatories:
Being asked whether he knows Barbara Tanbel de Orsi, how
long, and in what place:
Answers: That he first knew her in New York, about eleven
years ago, and afterwards in Philadelphia.
Being asked that, if he was married to her, to state in what
place, before what clergyman, how long ago, and who were the
witnesses:
Answers: That he never was married to her, although he
wished to do so, and had asked the consent of her father, but he
refused it, as deponent was poor.
VOL. XIL

44

SUPREME COURT.
Gaines v. Relf et al.

Being asked whether, after leaving her in Philadelphia, he has
known her in any other place, and with what intentions:
Answers: That he has seen the said Dona Barbara in Bordeaux by mere accident; for deponent being sick, Mr. Soumeylatt, her husband, was sent for, and after he got well the said
Soumeyllat invited him to dine with him at his house, where he
saw her, and was much astonished; and he afterwards continued
visiting the house, with no other feeling than that of friendship,
and with the knowledge of her husband.
Being asked if he knows Maria Ylar, to state how long he
has known her, in what place, and with what motives:
Answers: That in the month of December, of last year, he
knew her when she was in a boarding-house where she was em-,
ployed as a servant, in Bordeaux, where the respondent lived.
Being asked if he made any arrangements with the aforesaid
to accompany him to this city, to state what that arrangement
was, and what object she had in coming here:
Answers: That he made no arrangement nor agreement with
the aforesaid; and the reason she is here is, that having asked
him whether this country held out better inducements than Bordeaux, in order to gain a livelihood by sewing, he advised her to
come, as it would prove more advantageous to her.
Being asked whether his intention is to take her with him on
the voyage he intends making, and if he has asked her to do
so :
Answers: That he has not thought of it, as she came here to
gain her livelihood, and for no other purpose.
Being asked why Maria Julia Carri~re, his wife, went to the
north last year.
Answers: That the principal reason was, that a report had
circulated in this city that he was married to another woman;
she wished to ascertain whether it was true, and she went.
Being asked if he has ever been examined by any ecclesiastical judge in relation to this affair:
Answers: No
Being asked whether it is true, that in order to satisfy his
wife and the public, he offered to bring with him or to procure
documents tq prove his innocence in this matter, and that if he
have them, to show them:
Answers: That taking it for granted that this charge would
naturally fall, his wife being satisfied of his innocence, and no
judge having required the shewing of such documents, he has
used no exertions to obtain them; and that he is forty-t-vo years
old.
Signed, 3. Desgrange, Hasset, his mark, Antonio Fromentin,
C'tnio Lavergne.
Before me, Francisco Bermudez."

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

519

Gaines v. ReIf et al.
":DEcREE.
Not being able to prove the public report, which is
contained in the original decree of these proceedings, and'having'no more proofs for the present, let all proceedings be suspended,
with power to prosecute them hereafter, if necessary, and let the
person of Geronimo Desgrange be set at liberty, he paying the
costs.
Signed, Thomas Hasset.

Don Thomas Hasset, presbyter canon of this holy cathedral
church, vicar-general and governor of the bishoprick of this province of Louisiana and the two Floridas, has approved and
signed the preceding decree, in New Orleans, this 7th Septem*iber, 1802.
Signed, Francisco Bermudez.
In New Orleans, on the same day, notified Geronimo Des
grange of the preceding decree, and visited him in prison fq
that purpose.
Signed, Bermudez.
On the same day, notified said decree to Joseph Puche, the
keeper of the prison.
Signed, Bermudez."
Bishop Blanc proves that the records of the catholic bishoprick of Louisiana are in his charge; that he searched for the
record of prosecution against Desgrange for bigamy, and found
it; that it is a complete record of the whole proceeding; and
that, Thomas Hasset, being ' first canon of the diocese, represented the bishop, and acted as vicar-general, the see being
vacant at that time. Isodore A. Quemper also proves that he
is the official keeper of the records of the cathedral church of
St. Louis, at New Orleans, and the paper is an exact and literal
copy of the original.
The signat~nes of Lavergne and Fromentin, who took the
depositions, and that of Bermudez, the notary, are proved by
witnesses who had seen them write; and the signature of Des
grange and Zulime were proved by experts, on comparison,
hands with authentic signatures of theirs. Such proof is a
lowable in Louisiana, according to the civil code and the code
of practice; and this mode of proof has not been objected to
in this case.
Respondents also introduced the following evidence:
On the 26th of March, 1801, Madame Caillavet, Madame
Lasabe, and Madame Despau joined in a power of attorney,
authorizing Jerome Desgange, their brother in law, to proceed

520

SUPREME COURT.
Gaines v. Relf et al.

to Bordeaux, in France, and there recover any estate or property belonging to them, as co-heiresses of their father and
mother.
And, at the same time, Desgrange made a general power of
attorney to his wife, Donna Marie Zulime, to act for him in all
his affairs in his absence. She acted under the power, and sold
several slaves, and did other acts, which appear in notarial
records. In each of these acts she styles herself "the legitimate
wife and general attorney of Don Geronimo Desgrange."
In July, 1801, Desgrange wrote to Clark the following
letter:
"Bordeaux, iuly, 1801.
"MY DEAR SxR AND FRIEND, -Although
uncertain whether
you are at New Orleans, I hasten to seize the opportunity of
the sailing of the Natchez to furnish yor. with some news. I
-hope my letter will find you in good health. When one has
such a friend as you, we cannot feel' too deep an interest in
him.
"I have received here a great deal of politeness from lMfr.
John Bernard, merchant, a friend of Mr. Chew, who is doing a
very great business now. He spoke a great deal of Mr. Chew to
me, and his politeness to him while at Bordeaux. He was introduced to me by Mr. Cox.
"There has been many arrivals of American vessels in this
port since I was here last. Colonial goods are selling very well.
I think if your friend from Philadelphia were to make a visit
here he could make a profitable speculation on his return voyage.
"Do me the Idndness, my dear sir, to write to me. It will
afford me much pleasure to hear from you. Several American
vessels are about to leave, to come directly here.
"Present my compliments to Mr. Chew, and beg him, whenever he writes to Mr. Bernard, to speak of me. I have taken the
liberty to inclose under your cover a package for my wife, which
I beg you to remit to her. Permit me, my dear friend to reiterate my acceptance of the kind offer you made me before I left,
and should my wife find herself embarrassed in any resect,
you will truly oblige me by aiding her with your kind advice.
I expect to leave in a few days, to join my family. I hope to
return to Bordeaux in two or three months, to terminate my
affairs here, and to make preparations to meet you. f have
been some days engaged in a lawsuit, for the purpose of recovering an estate belonging.to my wife's family. I shall place
this dffair in Mr. Chicou St. Brie's care during my absence. I
fAr that I shall have to expend a great deal in this affair. I

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.
Gaines v. Relf et al.

have charged Mr. Bernard with the care of other business.
I have not yet heard from my wife, which renders me very uneasy as to going to Provence before I hear from her. It is said
that peace will be declared by the end of the year; but I have
my fears whether we shall enjoy that happiness. Hoping to
have the pleasure of hearing from you soon,
"I am, most truly, your friend,
" DESGRANGE.

"Write me to the care of Mr. Jean Bernard, merchant, at
Chartron, Bordeaux."
The respondents introduced the deposition of Daniel W.
Coxe, of Philadelphia. He had been the partner in trade of
Daniel Clark, in their New Orleans house,-from the time Clark
set out as a commission and shipping merchant. They were
nearly of the same age; both proud, intelligent, and ambitious
of success; equals in rank, and intimate in their social relations,
as a common interest and constant intercourse could make
them. This abundantly appears by their correspondence, intro,
duced in the record before us. Coxe states that, in 1802, Madame Desgrange presented herself to him in Philadelphia, with
a confidential letter of introduction to him from Daniel Clark,
which stated that the bearer was pregnant, and would soon be
delivered of a child; and that he, Clark, was the father of it;
and the letter requested Coxe to put her under the care of a
respectable physician, and to furnish her with money during her
confinement and stay in Philadelphia. That Coxe, accordingly,
employed the late Doctor William Shippen to attend her at
her accouchment. That he, Coxe, procured a nurse for her;
and removed the child, on the day of its birth, to the residence
of the nurse; that this child was Caroline Barnes, who, before
her marriage, always went by the name of Caroline Clark. The
first nurse was Mrs. Stevens; afterwards, the child was placed,
at Clark's request, with Mr. and Mrs.. James Alexander, of Trenton, New Jersey, and continued there until 1814 or 1815. After
this, (her father being dead,) she was placed at Mrs. Baisley's
school in Philadelphia. She remained with Mrs. Baisley several years, and acted during part of the time as a teacher, and,
Coxe thinks, continued there until she was married. She was
under Coxe's supervision all the time, from her birth until her
marriage; and was supported at the expense of Clark until his
death. She was at all times, during his life, recogniz6d by Clark
as his child, and caressed as such when he was at Philadelphia.
Coxe further states that Madame Desgrange left Philadelphia
for New Orleans as soon as it was prudent for her to travel,

SUPREME

COURT.

Gaines v. Relf et al.

after her confinement;" and that this happened, he thinks, in
April of 1802: he says in another deposition that it was some
time in 1802. Coxe was three times examined. Dates of letters from Clark to Coxe, and other evidence, show that the
child was born as late as July, 1802: to wit, Clark reached Philadelphia about the 27th of July, 1802, as from his letter to
Coxe appears; he hurried his business at Philadelphia and went
to New York, where he wrote to Coxe, Aug. 13, 1802, that he
would sail for Europe on the next Tuesday; and he did sail,
and returned early in 1803 to New Orleans, and was not at
Philadelphia in 1803. Madame Despau and Coxe both prove
that Clark was on his way to Europe, when Madame Desgrange
and Madame Despau met him. Coxe deposes that the child
had been lately born when Clark reached Philadelphia, and,
when he went to New York the two women very shortly after
left for New Orleans,- that is to say, so soon as Madame Desgrange was able to travel.
A record of a suit brought by Zulime C. Desgrange against
her husband, Jerome Desgrange, in November, 1805, for alimony,
was also introduced by respondents. It will be further noticed
hereafter.
This is substantially the evidence on both sides, on winch the
question depends, whether Desgrange was, or was not, guilty of
bigamy in martying Maria Julia N~e CrMriare, in 1794.
Objections are taken to several portions of this evidence; and
especially as respects the record of the suit against Desgrange
for bigamy in the ecclesiastical court
First, it is objected that the record is not duly proved, the
signatures of the witnesses not being established as having been
signed to their depositions.
"The answer to this objection rests on well-settled principleq.
All that is required in cases of this kind, is to produce a sworn
copy of the record, the witnesses also proving that it was taken
at the proper office, and produced by the lawful keeper of the
records. In Phillips on Ev. by Cowen (vol. 1, 432, vol. 2, 133,
134) will be found the cases in support of this mode of proof.
Here the official keeper of the records and the bishop of the
diocese, under whose charge they were, produced both the original and the copy; the copy was filed in this cause by stipulation of the parties; and each of the witnesses proved all the law
requires to make it primd facie evidence.
On the argument at the bar, and especially in the printed one
presented to us as coming from New Orleans, it is earnestly
insisted that the origin of this record is recent, and that it had
been fabricated for the purposes of this cause. We do not
perceive any ground for entertaining such an apprehension.

DECEMBER TERM,

1851.

523

Gaines v. Relf et al.

1st. The complainant's N-Htnesses refer to such a proceeding. 2d.
The record of it was searched for by the complainant, and not
found; and for this reason its substantial contents, as it was
supposed, were proved in Patterson's case. 3d. The signatures
of the officers of the court are proved as being genuine. 4th.
Bishop Blanc deposes that he had charge of the records of the
bishopric, among which he found this one.
If the allegation of fraud and forgery insisted on had any
foundation, Bishop Blanc must of necessity be directly involved
in that charge; and, furthermore, of swearing to that which he
must have known to be false. This assumption is not only
gratuitous, but the witness is fully supported by the facts above
stated; and the further fact, that, neither in his cross-examination, nor by any other evidence, is his integrity assailed by the
complainant.
The next objection is, that the record decided nothing, there
being no sentence concluding any one; and if there had been
such sentence, it would be of no value, as it was a proceeding
against Desgrange, to which neither Clark nor Zulime was a
party, and therefore the record was incompetent to affect the
rights of those claiming under them.
The competency of this evidence depends on other considerations.
For the purpose of establishing the bigamy of Desgrange, the
complainant proved by her witnesses that he was arrested on a
charge of bigamy, at the instance of his first wife; "that the
said lawful wife of the said Desgrange brought with her to New
Orleans proofs of her marriage with said Desgrange ;" that the
first wife appeared as a witness, and proved the bigamy; that.
Desgrange had confessed it; that he was convicted on his trial;
and that he was imprisoned, and in execution, under sentence
of the court; that this occurred in 1802 or 1803; that Desgrange
escaped from prison by connivance of the public officers, or
some of them, and fled the country, and never returned.
On this evidence, standing unopposed and uncontradicted, the
complainant had a decree in her favor in the Circuit Court at
New Orleans, establishing the bigamy of Desgrange; and in
this court, ih the case of Patterson v. Gaines, decided in 1848.
For the purpose of letting in this secondary evidence, the complainant introduced the deposition of C. W. Dresehler, made
April 24, 1840, which is as follows:
" That at the request of General Edmund P. Gaines, I have
been engaged for several days, assisted by a gentleman who understands the Spanish and French languages well, in making
very extensive and most diligent search at all offices, &c., in the
different parts of this city, where records are kept and could be

524

SUPREME COURT.
Gaines v. Relf et al.

looked for, for the purpose of obtaining a copy of a prosecution
against one Jerome Desgrange, convicted for the crime of bigamy,
in the year 1802 or 1803, when Louisiana was under the Spanish government, and Cassaacalvo, the governor, by whose order
the said Desgrange was arrested, imprisoned, &c., in this city;
but that I have not been able to find the Spanish records of the
aforesaid criminal proceedings, because 0lmost all the Spanish
documents, up to the 20th December, 1803, when Governor
Claiborne issued his first proclamation, were taken away by the
Spanish authorities, sent to Spain, and to the island of Cuba;
and the few papers left in this city are in a loose or bad condition; as also, because many books and papers having been destroyed by fire, and lost by removing them on account of fire,
during two occurrences of that kind.
"I am informed that Governor Claiborne made several ineffectual applications to the Spanish government to return the
papers taken away, to New Orleans; that persons have had to
go to Havana for documents, titles to land, &c."
On this, and other proof that no record of the proceeding
could be found, parol evidence of what occurred on the trial
against Desgrange was let in, and the bigamy found on the
secondary evidence in Patterson's case.
Here the same proof that the record of the proceedings was
lost, was introduced; and what took place on that trial of Desgrange was again proved by depositions, which were filed in the
Circuit Court before the record of Desgrange's trial was filed by
the respondents. The object of its introduction by-the respondents was, to rebut, contradict, and overthrow the evidence of the
complainant's witnesses, by showing,
1st. That no previous wife appeared against Desgrange on
his prosecution.
2d. That no documents ef a former marriage were produced
against him.
3d. That his wife Zulime did not then charge him with being
guilty of bigamy, denied all belief in the charge, and gave her
reasons for it; which correspond with the statement made by
the supposed first wife, Barbara Jeanbelle, and with Desgrange's
own statement made on oath.
4th. That Desgrange was not convicted, but discharged by
order of the court.
5th. That hp. did not flee the country, nor had any occasion to
do so. And,
6th. That so far from admitting his bigamy, he denied it on
oath, lawfully administered; thus solemnly declaring that he
heier had been married previous to his marriage with said
Zulime. Whereas, complainant's.witnesses swear he made such

copfesslm.

DE-CEMBER TERM4

1851.

Gaines v. Relf et al.

The complainant's principal witnesses are Madame Despau
and Madame Caillavet. Madame Despau swears that in 1802
or in 1803, Madame Desgrange and herself went to New York
for the purpose of ascertaining whether Jerome Desgrange had
been previously married, where Clark overtook them; that no
church record of the marriage could be found in the catholic
chapel at New York; but hearing that Mr. Gardette, of Philadelphia, knew something of the matter, -they went there, and
Gardette informed them that he was present at the first marriage; and that Clark and Zulime were then married. And
that soon afterwards, they received a letter from Madame Caillavet, informing them that Desgrange's first wife had come to
New Orleans, and they immediately returned there; where Des-range was prosecuted by his first wife, convicted and imprisoned; and that he fled the country, and never returned to it.Madame Caillavet says Desgrange and Barbara Jeanbelle
came together, or that Jeanbelle came immediately after him;
and that she immediately wrote to her sisters to return.
It appears that in the spring of 1801, Desgrange went to
France, to recover property coming by succession to his wife
Zulime, and her sisters, from their parents, and lying at Bordeaux, oi in that neighborhood; and that he had not returned
when Zulime and Madame Despau left New Orleans for New
York.
The ecclesiastical record states that he had been at home
about two months before he was arrested; which was September 4, 1802. He was therefore absent from his wife Zulime
about fifteen months.
Daniel W. Coxe proves, that Madame Desgrange brought him
a letter of introduction from Clark, stating, that she was then
far gone in pregnancy, and requesting Coxe's attention to her
wants; that he furnished a house and money, and employed a
nurse, and Dr. Shippen to attend her accouchement; that Clark's
letter stated the child was his; and we must assume that the
mother by delivering the letter, impliedly admitted the fact.
She was delivered; and Coxe had the child, on the same day,
put with Mrs. Stevens to nurse. All this time, Madame
Despau was with Madame Desgrange.
Coxe superintended
the child's nurture and education, in and near to Philadelphia,.
until Clark's death in 1S13, and afterwards. This was Caroline,'
who when grown up married Dr. Barnes; and who these witnesses swear without hesitation was the child of Dasorange;
and who, Madame Despau swears, was born in 1801. Nor does
either witness intimate that she was born in Philadelphia; or
that their sister went there to conceal her adultery, and hide' its

offspring.

526

SUPREME COURT.
Gaines v. Relf et al.

They left Philadelphia for New Orleans, as soon as Madame
Desgrange was able to travel; and reported to the deluded husband on their return, that *theyhad been north, seeking proof
against him for bigamy, but had found none. This is the substance of what Desgrange himself stated on his examination in
the criminal proceeding as derived from others. Zulime swore
on the trial, that she had heard the report of Desgrange having
another wife about a year before; that is, about the first of September, 1801. Then, Desgrange was in France.
It is true beyond question that these witnesses did know that
their sister Desgrange went north to hide her adultery; that she
did delude her absent husband, that she did impose on him
the mendacious tale that her sole business north was to clear
up doubts that disturbed her mind, about his having another
wife. These facts they carefully conceal in their depositions; and
on thq contrary swear that she went north to get evidence of her
husband's bigamy and imposition on her.
When they swore positively that Caroline was the child of
Desgrange, they did know that he had been in France, and his
wife in New Orleans, and they had not seen each other for more
than a year before the child was born; and Madame Despau
could not be ignorant that Clark claimed it as his, and that the
mother admitted the fact to Coxe.
These witnesses swear that Zulime had separated from Desgrange on discovering his bigamy, and gone to her own family.
That this occurred before the family arrangement was made
that Clark should marry her, and before Madame Desgrange
and Madame Despau went north, to ascertain the bigamy. They
also swear that Zulime returned to New Orleans about the time
Desgrange was arrested and imprisoned in September, 1802,
and was then the wife of Clark. There is no proof in this record tending to show that before Desgrange went to France he.
was suspected of bigamy, nor that his wife had separated from
him; but there is evidence to the contrary
When Desgrange went to France in the spring of 1801, he
appointed his wife attorney in fact by -notarial act, with full
power to transact all his business in his absence. Under this
power she acted and sold his property, paid debts, &c., and declared herself his lawful wife in every transaction.
Desgrange went to France with a full power to transact bt.siness for his wife and her three sisters, in which the latter style
Iiim their brother-in-law. This was his sole business in France
so far as this record shows; and when there, he wrote to Clark,
in July, 1801, to assist his, Desgrange's wife; expressing his sympathies, forwarding a package for her, and regretting that he had
not heard from her. He also expressed the sincerest gratitude

DECEMBER TERM,

1851.

527

Gaines v. Relf et al.
for Clark's proffered kindness in providing for and aiding Zulime
in his absence. From these facts it is clear, as we think, that at
the time Desgrange left for Europe, he and his wife were on terms
of intercourse and ordinary affection, and certainly not separated; and that the cause of their separation is found in the connection formed by Clark and Zulime in Desgrange's absence.
In support of the consistency of these witnesses, stress is laid
on the fact that so strong was the rumor of Desgrange's having
two other wives besides Zulime, that he was arrested, imprisoned,
and tried on the rumor. This is certainly true; the record of
his prosecution establishes the fact: But what circumstances are
brought forth to show that there was any plausible ground for
such rumor and such lprosecution? Desgrange Was a man somewhat advanced in lie; he kept an humble shop for selling
liquors and confectionary; this seems to have been his sole business. His wife Zulhe, was about twenty-two years old, and
uncommonly handsome. He seems to have been a lone man in
New Orleans, and his friends were his wife and her relations.
In the face of these facts it is assumed that he brought from
France with him an additional wife, and that another followed
him; with both of whom, and his third wife, Zulime, he was
confronted before the authorities of the church.
The early times, and the unintelligent condition of much of
the population of New Orleans at that day, must account for
this absurd public 6pinion, and the proceedings founded on it.
It is palpable that the witnesses Despau and Caillavet, swear
to a plausible tale of fiction, leaving out the circumstances of
gross reality. These originated, beyond question, in profligacy
of a highly dangerous and criminal character; that of a wife
having committed adultery, and been delivered of an illegitimate
child, in the absence of her husband; not only on his lawful
business, but on her's, and at her instance.
This child, with the knowledge of both of these witnesses,
and certainly with the aid of one of them, if not both, was
concealed in a foreign country, where the mother went and was
delivered; and then she returned home to New Orleans and presented herself to society as an innocent and injured woman, and
public indignation was turned on her husband for a supposed
crime committed against her. This is the reality these witnesses
conceal; roundly swearing that they knew this child to bl Desgrange's.
They also swear that Clark arranged with Zulime's family
before he went to Philadelphia, and had the assent of her family
to marry her; they having previously discovered Desgrange's
bigamy. But, according to their account, so scrupulous and
delicate was this injured woman, that she refused to marry

528

SUPR]eME

COURT.

Gaines v. Relf et al.

Clark until she went to New York and there ascertained for herself the fact, that Desgrange had another wife: that Clark soon
followed Madame Desgrange and Madame Despau, as previously agreed on; and even then, Madame Despar swears, when
Gardette had informed them that he was present, .nd witnessed
Desgrange's first marriage, her sister's sense of propriety and
delicacy was so great, that earnest persuasions had to be used
by Clark to overcome her scruples. We cannot shut our eyes
on the truth, and accord our belief to this fiction.
We have thus far spoken of the witnesses Despau and Calllavet in connection, because they acted in concert with their
sister Desgrange and Clark, in secreting their intercourse, and in
hiding the child that came of that intercourse: all the secrets
involved were obyiously known to the three sisters, whose confidential relation in the matter could hardly have been more
close, aslappears by their statements throughout.
Madame Despau is further discredited by Daniel W. Coxe's
evidence. She swears as follows:
"Mr. Clark became a member of the United States Congress
in eighteen hundred and six. While he was in Congress, my
sister heard that he was courting a Mfiss C., of Baltimore. She
was distressed, though she could not believe the report, knowing
herself to be his wife. Still, his strange conduct in deferring to
promulgate his marriage with her had alarmed her, and she and
I sailed to Philadelphia to get the proof of his marriage with
my sister. We could find no record of tLe marriage, and were
told that the priest who married her and Mr. Clark was gone to
Ireland. My sister then sent for Mr. Daniel W. Coxe, and mentioned to him the rumor above stated. He answered that he
knew it to be true that Mr. Clark was engaged to the lady in
question. My sister replied that it could not be so, He then
told her that she would not be able to establish her marriage
with Mr. Clark, if he were disposed to contest it. He advised
her to take the advice of legal counsel, and said he would send
one. A Mr. Smith came, and, after telling my sister that she
could not legally establish her marriage with Mr. Clark, pretended to read to her a letter in English, (a language then unknown to my sister,) from Mr, Clark to Mr. Coxe, stating that
he was about to marry Miss C. And afterwards, she married
Mr. Gardette."
Ths following is Coxe's account of the interview:
"I also think it proper to state, that in the year 1808, after Madame Desgrange had returned to Philadelphia from New Orleans, and when lodging in Walnut street she sent for me, and
during a private interview with her, at Mrs. Rowan's, where she
lodged, she stated that she had heard Mr. Clark was going to be

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

529

Gaines v. Relf et al.

•married to Miss C., of Baltimore, which, she said, was a 'Kiolation of his promise to marry her, and added that she now considered herself at liberty to connect herself in marriage with
another person; alluding, doubtless, to Dr. Gardette, who, at the
momeni of this disclosure, entered the room, when after a few
words of general conversation I withdrew, and her marriage to
Mr. Gardette was announced a few days after."
These contradictory statements raise a question of integrity
between the witnesses. If they were equally entitled to credit,
still Coxe's statement has several advantages. First; Madame
Desgrange disavowed in the strongest terms that she was the
wife of Clark by marrying Gardette. Secondly; so important a
communication as Madanke Despau declares her sister made to
Mr. Coxe; so ruinous to Clark's matrimonial prospects, and so
deeply disgraceful to him, must have been remembered by Coxe
if such communication had been made.
Thirdly; ladame Despau swears that she and her sister Desgrange went to Philadelphia to obtain evidence of Clark's marriage with Zulime; that they could find no record of the
marriage, and were told the priest who performed the ceremony
had gone to Ireland. What occasion could there be for further
proof? Madame Despau swears that Clark had proposed, and
family arrangements had been made with him at New Orleans,
to marry Zulime; that these proposals were made with the full
knowledge of all Zulime's family; that Clark follbwed the witness and Zulime 'north to fulfil the engagement; that he met
them, and the marriage took place; that she, Madame Despau,
was present; that Mr. Dozier, a wealthy planter of New Orleans,
and an Irish gentleman of New York, were also present.
Zulime's family consisted of three sisters and their husbands.
Madame Cavaillet swears that Clark conversed with her as his
sister-in-law, and admitted the marriage openly to her. Than
this, no further proof of it could be required, if true.
The next evidence bearing on the question of Desgrange's
bigamy is the record of a suit, brought by Madame Desgrange
against her husband in 1805, for alimony, already referred to;
and the deposition of Zulime found in the record of the ecclesiastical proceeding, taken in connection with the first named
record. In her deposition Zulime spoke of Desgrange in language admitting of no doubt that she then recognized him as
her husband; and that no evidence of his bigamy existed so far
as she knew or believed.
The deposition is objected to as not being evidence against
the complainant. We have already declared that what appeared of record in the proceeding against Desgrange, was compe
tent to rebut evidence introduced by the complainant tending to
VOL. XII.

45

SUPREME COURT.
Gaines v, Rlf et al.

show what occurred on the prosecution; this b eing in effect and
fact proof of what the record contained. The deposition is now
relied on as evidence in itself, tending to show that Desgrange
was Zulime's lawful husband, according to her own confessions
and showing at the time she deposed.
The competency of this.deposition, taken as a confession, is
objected to, on the ground that her signature to it was not
legally proved, as this was done by comparison of hands, according to the statute law of Louisiana. The steps taken in the
Circuit Court are conclusive of the objection.
On the 16th of January, 1850, the complainant's counsel gave
notice to those of the respondents, that on Monday, the 21st, a
motion would be made to suppress certain pieces of evidence;
and among them the exhibit, obtained at the cathedral church
of St. Louis, known as the "Ecclesiastical :Record." The cause
came on for hearing January 22d, and was heard on that and
the seventeen succeeding days; but no motion to suppress evidence was made; and if there had been, this exhibit could have
been proved at the hearing, by Zulime herself, if no one else had
been found to do so; as the record shows that complainant's
counsel ad nitted that Zulime was within the jurisdiction of the
court, on the day the trial commenced. No objection having
been made on the hearing below to this deposition, none can be
raised here. To what extent it can be used, will appear from
the following facts.
By an amendment to her bill, July 2d, 1844, the complainant
states:
"Your oratrix alleges that she is entitled to the one moiety of
the estate, of which the said Daniel Clark died possessed, by
reason of a conveyance thereof, made to her by M. Z. Gardette,
the widow of the said Clark, and the mother of your oratrix, on
the 7th day of May, 1836, and which is hereunto annexed,
marked A. B., and prayed to be 'taken as part hereof; and the
mother of your oratrix did thereafter, on the 20th June, 1844,
further convey to her all her interest in said estate, as appears
by her act, a copy of which is herewith exhibited, marked C.; the
whole of said estate having been acquired during the coverture
of said Clark and wife.
The evidence corresponds with this allegation, and on it the
complainant asks to have a decree for one half of the estate of
Daniel Clark, as derived from her mother. Madame Despau
and Madame Caillavet depose, that Clark married Zulime shortly
before her return to New Orleans, from Philadelphia, and before
the trial of Des'grange took place, and when she must have been
The wife of Clark, if ever she was. If Zulime was now before
the court claiming her marital interest in Clark's estate, her de-

DECEMBER TERM,

1851.

531

Gaines if. Relf et al.

clarations made during the alleged coverture tending to show
that she was not the wife of Clark, but of Desgrange, would be
admissible against her, and if so, they are also admissible against
any one who asserts the same title derived from her, after these
declarations were made. Such a case is an established exception to the rule of evidence, excluding declarations of third persons not parties to the record. A declaration emanating from
the claimant of any right or estate, which afterwards comes to
the parties on the record by descent or purchase, affecting adversely the estate acquired, may be given in evidence against
the party to the record who claims the estate. The authorities
are numerous to this effect, and will be found in 1 Phillips, on
Ev. 301, and in the notes by Cowen, 265. And the same rule
applies to the record of the suit for alimony. That record would
be evidence against the complainant's mother if she were a
party to this suit; and it is equally evidence against the complainant as purchaser or donee from her mother; it shows the
acts and conduct of the mother, on the question bearing on
Desgrange's bigamy.
In the suit of 1805, the petitioner alleges that the County
Court of Orleans has jurisdiction on application of wives against
their husbands, to grant alimony on the husband deserting his
wife for one year, and in cases of cruel treatment; and the petitioner declares that her husband, Jerome Desgrange, had
cruelly treated her; and likewise, that she had been deserted by
him from the 2d day of September, 1802, until that time; that
he had returned to New Orleans, from France, in the previous
month of October, and was then in the city; and she prays,
"that said'Jerome Desgrange, your petitioner's husband, be condemned to pay her a sum of five hundred dollars per annum,"
&c. Desrange was served -with notice December 6, 1805, and
final judgment entered against him, as prayed for by his wife,
December 24, 1805.
We are called on here to try an issue on facts, as a jury would
be bound to do, and find on them the issue between Clark's devisee and executors, and the purchasers claiming under them, on
the one side; and the complainant claiming under her mother
on the other, whether that mother was the lawful widow of
Daniel Clark when she conveyed to the complainant.
This alleged widow swore before the authorities of the church
in September, 1802, that she was the wife of Desgrange, and
there spoke of him as her lawful husband; nothing to the contrary was then pretended. The presence before which she deposed, and the solemn manner in which it was done, give additional weight, in our judgment, to what she so deliberately declared on that occasion.

SUPREME
Gaines v.

COURT

Relf et al.

In 1805, she again alleged in a legal proceeding, deeply affecting her and Desgrange, that she was his lawful wife, and that
he was her husband. The court sanctioned her statement by
founding its judgment on it; and as a wife, she recoyered the
amount claimed as alimony.
With the full knowledge this woman had of all the circunstances connected with the charge of bigamy against Desgrange,
our judgment is convinc ed
s
d what was true, and
that she was Desgrange's lawful wife at the time it is alleged
she married Clark.
The claim, therefore, of the complainant, derived from her
mother, must be rejected, as it stands condemned by the statements and acts of that mother herself.
The complicated and curious circumstances that surrounded
this charge of bigamy against Desgrange in the Paterson case,
and which were then so difficult to deal with, are easily enough
understood now. A clew is furnished to unravel the mystery,
why it was, that an humble shopkeeper should be of sufficient
consequence to excite public indignation, be, the object of general and gross reproach, and for his name afterwards to appear in
the columns of the only newspaper then published in New Orleans, an extract from which the complainant has given in evidence. There an account was given of Desgrange's alleged
crime of bigamy, and the enormity of his conduct in marrying
Zulime N6e Carri~re, whose artless innoetnce he so basely imposed upon. The mystery is explained by the fact now presented, that in Desgrange's absence to France, his wife formed
a connection with Clark, and the child Caroline came of that
illicit connection. On Desgrange's return home, Madam Cailavet notified her sisters to return in haste, as Desgrange's first
wife was at New Orleans. Mesdames Despau and Desgrange
forthwith returned, and at this time it was that Desgrange was
so fiercely assailed by public opinion, and very soon after arrested on general rumor and tried for bigamy. 'The reports, to which
these witnesses swear, obviously originated with, and were relied
on by Madame Desgrange, her sisters and friends, to harass and
drive Desgrange from the country, so that his wife might'indulge
herself in the society of Clark, unincumbered and unannoyed
by the presence of an humble and deserted husband. And this
was in fact accomplished, for Desgrange did leave the country
soon after he was tried for bigamy, and Clark did set up- Desgrange's wife in a handsome establishment, where their intercourse was unrestrained.
In 1805, when Desgrange again came to New Orleans, his
wife immediately sued him for alimony, as above stated;
speedily got judgment against him for five hundred dollars per

DECEMBER TERM,

1851.

533

Gaines v. Relf et al.

annum; on the same day, issued execution, and again drove
him away.
Bellechasse and Madame Benguerel swear that Desgrange
married Zulime, and that he was afterwards condemned for the
crime of bigamy; his first and lawful wife coming in pursuit
of him to Louisiana, and appearing against him, and producing
the'documents of her marriage. That this happened in 1802
or 1803, and that Desgrange fled. Their statements are substantially the same in this respect.
They are so obviously founded on common report, as to be of
no value in themselves; certainly no decree could be founded
on them. But when contrasted with the record of Desgrange's
prosecution, they turn out to be entirely contrary to the truth;
as no first wife appeared against Desgrange; no documents of
a former marriage were produced; and no conviction took place;
nor did he flee from the country. These aged persons swore as
to what common rumor and public clamor were forty years before, and nothing more.
Madame Benguerel also swears, that she and her husband
were intimate with Desgrange, and when they' reproached him
for his baseness in marrying Zulime, he endeavored to excuse
himself by saying "that, at the time of his marrying said Zulime, he had abandoned his said lawful wife, and never intended
to see her again." As already stated, this must have happened
after Desgrange returned from France, for there is no evidence
that before he went there any such report existed. Zulime proved,
on the prosecution for bigamy, that she had first heard the report
about a year before she was examined.
We deem it extremely improbable, that a man. should openly
confe~s to the friends of Zulime, who reproached him with having committed a foul and high crime, that he was guilty ; and
this, too, on the eve of his apprehension and examination, on
which he was compelled to give evidence against himself, when
he swore that there was no truth whatever in the charge, and in
which he was supported. by this supposed first wife, who was
then examined, and also by Zulime herself.
On the admissibility of Desgranges confession, that he committed bigamy when he married Zulime, the question arises
whether this confession (if made) could be given in evidence
against the defendants? They do not claim under Desgrange;
he was not interested in this controversy when it originated,
and was competent to give evidence in this cause at any time,
if living, to prove, or disprove, that a previous marriage took
place, and was in fall force, when he married Zulime. Phillips,
in his Treatise on Evidence, (vol. 3, 287, Cowen's ed.) lays
down the rule with accuracy, and cites the authorities in its
45*

SUPREME COURT.
Gaines v.

Relf et

1.

support; which rule is, that "either of the married parties, provided they are not interested in the suit, will be competent to
prove the marriage; and either of therm will also be competent
to disprovethe supposed marriage; and they maygive evidence
as to the fact whether their child was born before or after marriage."
If Desgrange could overthrow his marriage with Zulime by
confessions,'at one time, so he could dt any.other time; and on
this assumption, his confession of a previous marriage could
have &een admitted at any time before -the trial, or at the trial,
when he stood by, and might be examined as a witness.
The great basis . of. human -society throughout the civilized
world is founded on marriages and legitimate offspring; and to
hold that either of the parties could, by. a mere declaration, establish the fact that a marriage was void, would be an alarming
doctrine.
This admission was not. one tending to establish pedigree,
went to
where hearsay of parents and 'others is admissible;, it.
the sp.ecific fact of bigamy; and, according to the language of
the Supreme Court of Louisiana, in Hazmar v. McLeland, (16
Louis. Rep. 28,) "in such serious matters, the law requires more
than the simple confession of one of the parties to dissolve forever the bonds of matrimony between them." That was" a case
seeking a divorce on a written confession of the husband, who
had married a -second wife; but the principle declared in that
case, and the one governing the present, is the same. It upholds a great policy, on which society is founded.
The letter of Desgrange to Clark, of July, 1801, from Bordeaux, is objected to, as incompetent. We think it is competent to prove the state of feeling, affection, and sympathy of
Desgrange towards his wvfe, when he wrote the letter; and also,
the date is evidence-to prove 'where the -%iter was, and the time
when he wrote. There is no ground to auppose that the letter
was written collusively. It appears to have been ingenuous,
and honestly intended. The doctrine, why such a letter is admitted, is laid down accurately in 1 Phillips's Ev. by Cowen,
189, 190.
In addition to the foregoing evidence to prove the bigamy of
Desgrange, a certificate in the Latin language was introduced,
on part of the complainant, purporting to be that of William V.
O'Brien, dated September 11, 1806, declarng that he had, (July
6, 1790,) as pastor of St. Peter's church, in the city of New
York, married, in that church, Jacobus Desgrange, to Barbara
M. Orsi.
It is proved that this priest had charge of St. Peter's church
in 1790, and in 1806; that the certificate was in his handwrit-

DECEMBER

TERM,

1851.

Gaines v. Relf et al.

ing, and in due and ordinary form; that the priest died about
1814, then still being in charge of the same church; and that no
record of the marriage was found in the records of the church in
1849, when the 'witnesses deposed to the handwriting of the
priest. It is also proved that this certificate was found among
the papers of Gardette, who married the complainant's mother
in 1808; that the paper was found after the suit against Patterson was decided, and delivered to the complainant by her mother.
The true name of Desgrange is not in the certificate. It was
Geronimo, not Jacobus. Nor was the woman's nane given so
as to correspond -withthat of the alleged first wife of Desgrange.
Her name was Barbara Jeanbelle. De Orsi is an affix, describing a place to which the party belongs, or has belonged. The
woman's name is given as Barbara M. Orsi, and we suppose no
catholic priest thus describes a person he has married, in his
marriage register. No identity of person is proved. No cohabitation as man and wife, between Desgrange and Barbara'Jeanbelle, is proved.
But waiving all th'ese objections, and still we think this certificate mere hearsay evidence, and that of a very dangerous
character, and this for several reasonse It was given sixteen
years after the marriage purports to have taken place, and might
just as well have been given, had the priest been alive, forty
years after the marriage, and on the eve of the trial. .
In England, by the statute law, copies from parish ogisters
are received to prove marriages; but the paper produced mast
be a sworn copy of the parish register, and not a certificate of
the officiating clergyman; nor will a copy of a foreign register
be received in evidence, on proof that it is a true copy.
If it were -allowable in this country to give such certificate in
evidence, where every clergyman of all denominations can perform the ceremony of marriage, and where it is performed by
justices of the peace in many of the States, it would open a door
to frauds that could not.be guarded against.
And then again, certificates of marriage might be produced
by those coming to this country from Europe: For no reason
e.xists why a priest in any part of the world should not have accorded to his certificate all the credence that ought to be given
to the one here produced, as Louisiana and New York were
foreign to each other in 1790.
The respondents introduced the copy of a mutilated record, to
'Which objection was made on behalf of complainant, but which
comes up in this record, and is now relisd on, for the complainant,
to prove the bigamy of Desgrange. It purports to be a suit of
Zulime Carrire against Jerome Desgrange, commenced in 1806,

536

SUPRZHE COURT.
Gaines v. Rolf et al.

in the former County Court of Orleans. A curator was appointed for Desgrange, who wds absent; and the curator, Ellery, was
summoned to answer the petition; but no petition is produced.
Ellery demurred, and stated, as cause of denmurrer, that the County Court had no jurisdiction of cases of divorce, nor the court
power to pronounce therein; and that the damages, prayed for
in said petition, cannot be inquired into oi assessed until after
judgment of the court touching the validity of the marriage
shall be first declared; and he therefore demurred. The demurrer was joined. Afterwards the curator filed the general issue.
All we find further, is a copy of the docket entries which the
clerk was bound to keep by the act of April 10, 1805, sec. 11,
for the inspection of the public. The docket entry is as follows:
"Petition filed June 24, 1806. Debt or dai.ages $100. Plea
filed July 1, 1806. Answer filed July 24, 1806. Set for trial
24 July." The witnesses are stated and the costs given; and
then follows: "Judgment for plaintiff, damages $100, July 24,
1806."
This proceeding is relied on as in itself establishing the fact,
that the marriage between Jerome Desgrange and Marie Julia
N6e Carri~re, was thereby declared null.
To give the record this effect, it must appear that the plaintiff
did set out in her petition the fact that said marriage was null
by reason of the bigamy of Desgrange, and that she prayed to
have its nullity adjudged by a judicial decree, and that such decree was made on the issue. Nothing of the kind appears here.
We have no evidence what the cause of action was, nor can
any inference be drawn from the memoranda made by the clerk
that the suit was to establish the bigamy. All that appears
from these memoranda is, that debt or damages to the amount
of $100 was claimed by the plaintiff, and that $100 in damages
was recovered. Nor does the demurrer contradict this assumption. This mutilated record, theaefor6, proves nothing in this
cause.
In regard to this record, the answer of Beverly Chew and
Ri'chard Relf avers, "that on or about the 24th of June, 1806,
the aforesaid Zulime N~e Carri~re, wife of the said Jerome Desgrange, did present another petition to the competent judicial
tribunal of the city of New Orleans, therein representing herself
as the lawful wife of, and having intermarriedwith the said Jerome
Desgrange, and praying for a divorce and a dissolution of the
bonds of matrimony existing between her and the said Jerome
Desgrange, and which was subsequently decreed: to wit, subsequent to the birth of said Myra." If it was true, that as lawful wife, Zulime N~e Carriere sued, and did admit by this proceeding that she was the lawful wife of Desgrange; yet it could

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.
Gaines v. Relf et al.

only affect the interest the complainant sets up under her mother, But as the record does not show what the cause of
action was, it is of no value for either side.
On th- 20th January, 1849, Gaines and *ife filed their sup.
plemc-. al bill against all of the defendants, and among other
matters set forth the decree made in their behalf by this court, in
the case of C. Patterson v. Gaines and wife, at December term,
1847; and complainants set up that decree as having adjudged
and decided against all the defendants to this suit, that Myra
Clark Gaines was the legitimate child and forced heiress of
Daniel Clark, and that she was legally and equitably entitled to
receive of Relf and Chew, and all persons holding undeT them,
all and singular the estates and property claimed by the original
bill; and that although neither of them were nominal'parties to
said decree, yet each of them is bound and concluded thereby;
they and each of them holding the same relation to your oratrix
as the said Charles Patterson did, and they and each of them
having joined in the interrogatories propounded'to the witnesses
upon whose testimony said decree was rendered, and propounded
cross-interrogatories to said witnesses.
The defendants admit that such a decree was rendered, but
deny that it is conclusive on them, or that it ought to affect their
right; and that if the decree could do so, yet it aught not to
have this effect in the present instance, because they aver and
set forth and plead the same as a matter of defence; that said
decree was brought about, and procured by impsition, combination, and fraud, between said complainants and Charles Patterson, and that therefore, it should not be regarded in a court
of justice for any purpose whatever: That said decree was
designt ed as no honest exposition of the merits of the case; but
was brought about, allowed and consented to, for the purpose o,
pleading the same as resjudcat upon points in litigation not
honestly contested.
Charles Patterson was called on by respondents to give evidence on their behalf, to establish the fact., that his suit with
Gaines and wife was not honestly defended by him; and he
was required by interrogatories to depose whether he had lost
any thing by the decree against him. He answered that he caused
the proofs fiom the court of probate in New Orleans to be given
in evidence in the cause; that this was done by consent of General and Mrs. Gaines, who told him to get all the evidence possible, the stronger the better; that it wouid be more glorious to
have it as strong as possible.
He furthermore deposed that General Gaines and his wife
gave him a writing under their hands that they would not take
any property from him, and that they would make his title

SUPREME

COURT.

.Gaines v. Relf et al.

good. He also stated'that General and Mrs. Gaines were to
pay the costs if the suit was decided against him, Patterson;
that he paid most of them, and that General and Mrs. Gaines
refunded the money to" him; that he also paid the counsel who
appeared for him at Washington, but the money was refunded
by General and Mrs. Gaines.
Ee further stated that he was particularly requested by General
and Mrs. Gaines, to. use his best exertions, with the aid of the
best counsel he could employ to make every defence in his
power to the suit, and qf which it was suszeptible, and that he
did so.
The suit was for Patterson's residence in New Orleans, and
he admits that he has never been disturbed in his possession,
by the decree against him, nor does he expect that he ever will
be.
That this proceeding on the part of Patterson and General
and Mrs. Gaines was amicable, and that no earnest litigation
was trd is too manifest for controversy. They agreed to go to
trial at once on the depositions found in the probate court; and
as Patterson was to lose nothing by the event, he was of course
indifferent as to what evidence might be introduced on the hearing.
It also appears by his evidence 'that when a decree was obtained'in the Circuit Court against him, his name was used to
carry up an appeal to this 'court; but it was in fact brought up
hy-General and Mrs. Gaines. Patterson employed counsel here,
who of course had to take the record as they found it, and make
the best of it they could; and it is conceded on all hands, they
did so; and made the best exertions for. Pattersoft they could do
on the record brought up by him, as they supposed. Nevertheless, an affirmance of the decree was had in this court. It could
hardly be otherwise in a case managed as this was; the object
of the .complainants below, being to obtain a favorable opinion
and decree, on the law and facts of a case, made up at their
own discretion.
But the cause before us presents an aspect altogether different'; the pioceeding against Desgrange before the vicar-general,
introduced here by the respondents, from the archives of the
cathedral church of St. Louis, at New Orleans, is in our opinion
sufficient in~itself to produce a different decree from that given
in Patterson7s case.
That record; thi power of attorney from Desgrange to his
wife; and the one from hiswife and her sisters to him, to pursue
and recover their propert:y in France; his letter to Clark of July,
1801; the proof of. his absence .from'his wife for more than a
year, before Caroline was born; the record of the suit for ali-

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

539

Gaines v. Relf et al.

mony, prosecuted in 1805, by his wife against Desgrange, together with Daniel W. Coxe's evidence, as it now stands, fortied as it fs, by letters showing dates, consistency, and accuracy,
are all new; and make up a defence altogether conclusive.'
The following is the result of our conclusions:
1st. That the complainant's two principal witnesses, Madame
Despau and Madame Caillavet, are not worthy of credit.
2d. That the depositions of Bellechasse and Madame Benguerel obviously state hearsay and rumor, and are worth nothing,
in so far as mere hearsay and rumor is detailed by them.
3d. That the naked confession of Desgrange, that he had been
guilty of bigamy, made to Madame Benguerele and her husband,
is incompetent evidence, and inadmissible as against these respondents ; even admitting that such confession had been made,
as stated by the witness.
4th. That the certificate of William V. O'Brien is inadmissible, and must be disregarded.
5th. That the record of the suit of Zulime Carrire against
Jerome Desgrange, prosecuted in 1806 in the County Court of
Orleans, proves nothing, and is incompetent.
6th. That the decree of this court in Charles Patterson's case
does not affect these defendants for two reasons: 1st. Because
they were no parties to it; and 2d. Because it was no earnest
controversy; And
7th. That the record of Desgrange's prosecution for bigamy,
overthrows the feeble, and the discredited evidence, introduced
by complainant to prove the bigamy of Desgrange, by marrying
Marie Julia N~e Carriere in 1794; and establishes the fact that
Desgrange was her lawful husband, in 1802 or 1803, when complainant alleges Daniel Clark married her mother; and that
therefore, complainant is not the lawful heir of Daniel Clark,
and can inherit nothing from him: And consequently that the
complainant can take no interest under her mother, by the conveyance set forth in the amended bill, she not being the widow
of Daniel Clark.
The question decided, concludes this controversy; nor shall
we go further into it.
The harshness of judicial duty requires that we should deal
with witnesses and evidences, and with men's rights, as we find
them; and it is done so here. But we sincerely regret that. it
could not be satisfactorily done, without making exposures that
would most willingly have bedn avoided.
It is ordered that the decree of the Circuit Court be affirmed,
and the bill dismLsed.
No. 150 of Myra Clark Gaines v. F. D. de la Croix, Richard
Relf and Beverly Chew; ahd No. 151 of the same complainant

540

SUPREME COURT.
Gaines v. Relf et al.

u. D. F. Kermer, J.S. 'Minor, Relf Chew et a, depend on the
same facts as the foregoing case. In these also the decrees below will be affirmed, and the bills dismissed.
M. Justice WAYNE and Mr. Justice DANIEL dissented.
'Mr. Justice WAYNE delivered the following dissenting
opinion.
I dissent from the judgment just given, and will give my reascns for doing so as briefly as I can. But it will necessarilv occupy some time.
I believe that the case of the complainant has been proved
beyond a reasonable'doubt, as the law requires it to be done; I
say, as the law requires it to be done, without meaning.to imply
any doubt of the fact, but that the fact has been proved according.to those rules which expeience has shown to be necessary
and sufficient, to guard conjugal and other-domestic relations
from capricious and unregulated judgments. Those rules are
to be found in adjudicated cases of our own and of the English
courts, and in the conclusions of the civil and canon law applicable to cases of this kind.
I think it has been proved, that Myra Clark Gaines is the
only child of her father, Daniel Clark, by his marriage with her
mother, Zulime Carri~re. That when the marriage" took -lace,
he parties were willing to contract., able to contract, and that
they did contract marriage in Pennsylvania according to the
laws -of that State, in the year eighteen hundred and t o. I
also think that there was nothing then or now in the laws of
Louisiana which lessens in any wa the validity of that -marriage. The proofs of these declarations, shall hereafter be
pointed out, with the law in support of them.
My first obiect is to state the evidence relied upon by the
parties to this suit, and in what way it should have been examined and appreciated by this court, before its judgment was
given. In other words I mean to say, that a judgment has
been given against the complainant upon testimony introduced
into the record of the case against the protest of her counsel,
wlhch is altogether inadmissible under -the rules for the admission of testimony in courts of justice, and which have hithcrto
been observed and enjoined by this court in its judgments.
And further, that admissions and averments in the answer of
the defendants in respect to certain portions of testimony offered
by them, have been overlooked, by which the complainant has
been deprived of proofs, which time out of mind in chancery
have been considered conclusive, of the fact affirmed in an answer, whether or not the same makes against a defendant or for
a complainant.

DECEMBER TERM,

1851.

541

Gaines v. Relf et al.

Secondly, I will show that all of the testimony of a documentary kind introduced by the defendants, except one of them,
ought not to have been received by this court as evidence, on
account of some of them not being properly authenticated as
records of ajudicial character, and because others being res inter
alios acta, aijis nec prodest nee nocet. And that such documents
or papers for the causes just stated have always been rejected
by the courts of common law and by courts of chancery, and
further that they would not have been received in the courts of
Louisiana if this case had been in one of its tribunals.
The defendants deny the marriage between the complainant's
father and mother; and if there was a marriage, they contest
its validity on account of her mother having then another husband alive. It is admitted that a marriage had been solemnized
between her and Jerome Desgrange, but the complainant shows
by competent testimony sufficient to establish the fact that
Desgrange was a married man, with a wife alive when he married her mother. That such being the fact, their marriage was
void ab initio, and that she was at liberty to marry with another
as if no such connection had ever existed between Desgrange
and herself. In other words, that such a connection, though
entered into aecording to the forms of marriage, makes no impediment by the civil, the canon, or common law, in the way
of a second marriage by the party imposed upon. The defendants rejoin, saying, even though the marriage -with Desgrange
was void on account of his bigamy, that she could not contract
marriage again, before she had obtained a sentence of nullity of
her marriage with Desgrange. It is also urged by the defendants, if there was a marriage between the father and mother of
the complainant, that it was void on account of what the canon
law terms its clandestinity. That according to that law, as it
then prevailed in Louisiana, the issue of such a marriage was
illegitimate and that it has no civil effect to give rights of property or inheritance to the issue of such a marriage. To this
the complainant replies that the marriage of her father and
mother was solemnized in the State of Pennsylvania according
to the law of that State. That the lex loci contractus give- to
the issue the status of legitimacy for all pu.poses in Louisiana
and elsewhere, whether the issue was born there or out of its
jurisdiction; and further, that marriages which have been clandestinely solemnized, that is, by not observing the solemnities
of the church, though they are condemned by the canon law, as
it existed in Louisiana, are not made void - cap. qubd nobes. tit,
quefilii sunt legis. To the objection that there had fAot been a
sentence of the nullity of the marriage with Desgrange, the complainant answers, that when a marriage by the canon law and
VOL.

XII.

46

SUPREME COURT:
Gaines v.

Relf ot al.

as it then was in Louisiana, is ipso facto, null and void, that no
declaratory sentence of nullity is absolutely necessary, though it
may be expedient to have one, to reinstate the parties in their
original unconnected condition. That this is especially so,
when one of the parties at the -time of marriage had been previously married and that marriage had not been dissolved by
death or by operation of law. That a sentence of nullity is
only absolutely necessary to restore the ability of persons to
marry, when it is sought to have a marriage declared de facto
void on account of non-compliance with the law directing the
mode for solemnizing marriage, or when one of the parties seeks
a dissolution on account of fear, - such as the fear of death or
imprisonment having been used to compel a party to marry, or where the marriage is voidable for incest or impotence, or if
the woman isnimis arcta, for which an ecclesiastical court will
pronounce it null and void in the lifetime of the parties, which
when done restores the parties, except in the third case mentioned, to their former ability to contract espousals and marriage
with others as if they had not been in that connection with each
other.
The defendants, to maintain their denial of. the marriage between the father and mother of the complainant, attempt to discredit her witnesses who were examined to prove it. For that
purpose they examined persons as to the character of the witnesses. They attempt to show contradictions in the testimony
of two of them taken at different times, and allege concealment
of facts which it is said they were bound to disclose in their examination; and they were also permitted to put in evidence
certain papers relating to the marriage with Desgrange, and its
continuance after the alleged marriage of Zulime with Clark.
Those papers are, 1st, one termed an ecclesiastical prosecution
of Desgrabnge for bigamy in 1802; 2d, The proceedings of a
court in Louisiana in 1805 at Ihe instance of Zulime against
Desgrange. for alimony; 3d, Another for a like purpose at the
instance of Mr. Davis, to whose care the complainant was confided by her father in her infancy, in w,hich she is called a natural child of her father; 4, An imperfect record of a suit brought
by the complainant's mother in 1806 in her maiden name
against the name of Desgrange, for a divorce or a sentence of
nullity of their marriage, in whioh there was a judgment against
him, or in her favor.
The last record stands in this suit upon a different -footing
from the ecclesiastical proceedings, inasmuch as it is properly authenticated to make it evidence as a judicial record, and the
other is not so. Also, because the defendants introduce it and
declare it in their answers to be a petition by the complainant's

DECEMBER

TERM, 1851

543

Gaines v. Relf et al.

mother, Zulime N6e Carri~re, wife of the said Desgrange, to a
competent judicial tribunal in New Orleans, therein representing
herself as the wife of Desgrange, and praying for a divorce and
dissolution of the bonds of matrimony existing betwqen her and
Desgrange, which was subsequently decreed, after the birth of
the complainant. And they further aver in their answers, that,
having obtained a divorce and having resumed her maiden
name, she afterwards, in 1808, intermarried with one James
Gardette. The defendants also rely upon the conduct of Clerk
and Zulime, before and after it is said they were married, to disprove their marriage and to establish that they were illicitly
connected, before and until after the birth of the complainant.
She resists this by proofs which will hereafter be more particularly noticed, 4nd further urges that the defendants having
alleged in iheir answers a divorce between Desgrange and her
mother by a competent tribunal, they cannot now be permitted
to disclaim it, for, though the petition in that case has not been
returned with the rest of the record, on account of its loss, that
its object and purpose ere madi out both by external and internal proofs in what remains, as the law requires the loss of tlhe
whole or of a part of a judicial record to be supplied, and in
that way it is shown to have been a petition for a sentence of
nullity of her marriage with Desgrange on account of its ori-

ginal inval'dityr
Having stated the positions taken by the parties in respect to
the marriage between Clark and Zulime, between her and Desgrange, and her subsequent connection with Gardette iithout a
divorce from Clark, when he had abandoned her, and the legal
points raised and replied to by both parties, I will now proceed
to state the kind of testimony upon which they respectively
rely, the use which has been made of it., indicating at the same
time what I believe to be the law upon each point of the complainant's case, and also upon all of those made by the defendants.
1st. As to the marriage. between the father and mother of
Mrs. Gaines: It is proved by one witness, Madame Despau, her
aunt, who was present at the marriage when it took place in
Philadelphia. By another witness;- Madame Caillavet, also her
aunt, who swears that Clark made proposals of marriage for
Zulime to her family; after her withdrawal from Desgrange,
which was caused by her having heard that he was the husband
of another -woman then alive. She also swears that Clark,
after his marriage with Zulime, admitted it to her, and that so
did ZuJime. They also rely upon Clark's acknowledgment of his
marriage to three other witnesses, Mrs. Harper, Bellechasse, and
Boisfontaine, to each of whom he repeatedly said that Myra

544

SUPREME COURT.
Gdines v. Relf et al.

was his legitimate child, also upon his treatment of her and declarations concerning her, from her birth to -within two hours of
his death, when he declared that Myra was his legitimate child.
One of these witnesses, Mrs. Harper, is the lady who sucded
Myra with her own child; not as a hireling for that office, but
as the friend of Clark. To this witness he made at different times
frequent declarations of the child's legitimacy, and of his marriage with her mother; and to another of the witnesses, Boisfontaine, Clark said that he Would have avowed the marriage,
but for her subsequent connection with Gardette. In proof also
of the marriage and of the child's legitimacy, they rely upon
the facts that Clark made large provisions of fortune for her in
trust to others, to whom he declared her to be his legitimate
child when the trusts were made, and that a short time before
his death, he made a will in her favor as his universal legatee,
in which she was declared to be his lawful child, about which
will he spoke with anxiety and penitential affection within an
hour before his death, as having by that act repaired the wrong
he had done her.
The witness, Madame Despau, says she was at the marriage of
Zulime and Mr. Clark, in 1803 or 1802,, that it took place in Philadelphia, and the ceremony was performed by a Catholic priest,
in-the presence of other witnesses as well as herself. She states
that she was present when her sister gave birth to Mrs. Gaines,
that Clark claimed and"acknowledged her to be his child, that
she was born in 1806. That the circumstances of her marriage
with Daniel Clark were these: Several years after her marriage
with Desgrange she heard he had a living wife. Our family
charged him with the crime of bigamy in marrying Zulime.
He at first denied, but afterwards admitted it and fled from the
country. These circumstances became public, and Mr. Clark
made proposals of marriage to my sister, with the knowledge
of all of our family. It was considered essential, first, to obtain
record proof that Desgrange had a living wife at the time he
married my sister, to obtain which from the Catholic church in
New York, where Mr. Desgrange's prior marriage was celebrated,
we sailed for that city. On our arrival there we found that the
registry of marriages had been destroyed. Mr. Clark arrived
after us. We heard that a Mr. Gardette, then living in Philadelphia, was one of the witnesses of Mr. IDesgrange's prior marriage. We proceeded to that city and found DrMr. Gardette.
He answered that he had been present at the prior marriage of
Desgrange, and he afterwards knew Desgrange and his wife by
that marriage. That this wife had sailed for France. Mr.
Clark then said, "You have reason no longer to refuse being
married to me. It will be necessary, however, to keep our mar-

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.
Gaines v. Relf et al.

riage secret till I have obtained judicial proof of the nuliity of
your marriage with Desgrange." "They were then married.
Soon afterward our sister, Madame Caillavet, wrote to us from
New Orleans, that Desgrange's wife whom he had married prior
to marrying Zulime had arrived at New Orleans. We hastened
our return to New Orleans. He was prosecuted for bigamy,
father Antoine, of the Catholic church in New Orleans, taking
part in the proceedings against Desgrange. Mr. Desgrange was
condemned for bigamy in marrying Zulime, and was cast into
prison, from which he secretly escaped by connivance, and was
taken down the Mississippi river by Mr. Le Breton D'Orgenois,
where he got to a vessel, and, according to the best of my knowledge and belief, never afterwards returned to Louisiana. This
happened in 1808, not a great while before the close of the Spanish government in Louisiana. M11r. Clark told us that before
he could promulgate his marriage with my sister, it would be
necessary that there should be brought by her an action against
the name of Desgrange. The anticipated change of government created delay, but at length, in 1806, Messrs. James Brown
and Elizaer Fromentin, as the counsel of my sister, brought suit
against the name of Desgrange in the city court, I think, of New
Orleans. The grounds of said suit were, that said Desgrange
had imposed himself in marriage upon her at a time when he
had a living lawful wife. Judgment in said suit was rendered
against Desgrange.
itJr. Clark still continued to defer promulgating his marriage with my sister, which very much fretted and
irritated her feelings. Mr. Clark became a member of the United
States Congress in 1806. While he was in Congess my sister
heard that he was courting Miss Caton, of Baltimore. She was
distressed, though she could not believe the report, knowing herself to be his wife; still his strange conduct in deferring to promulgate his marriage with her had alarmed her. She and I
sailed for Philadelphia to get the proof of his marriage with' my
sister. We could find no record, and were told that the prieswho married her and Mr. Clark was gone to Ireland. My sister
then sent for All'. Daniel W. Coxe, mentioned to him the rumor;
he answered that he heard it to be true that Clark was engaged
to her. My sister replied it could not be so. He then told her
that sbe would not be able to establish her marriage with Mr.
Clark, if he was disposed to contest it. He advised her to take
counsel, and said he would send one; a Mr. Smythe came and
told my sister that she could not legally establish her marriage
with Mr. Clark, and pr6tended to read to her a letter in English,
(a language then unknown to my sister,) from Mr. Clark, to Mr.
Coxe,'stating that he was about to marry Miss Caton. In consequence of this information, my sister Zulime came to the cor-

546

.3JUPREME COURT.
Gaines v. Relf et al.

clusion of having no further communication or intercourse with
Mr. Clark, and soon after married Mr. Gardette, of Philadelphia."
The testimony of this witness has been given in her own
words, in her answers to questions put on both sides. The crossinterrogatories were filed by distinguished counsel, having before
them at the time the direct interrogatories to be put to the witness. It often happens, in the investigation of causes, that the
capacity of the advocate has an influence upon our conclusions
in respect to testimony. It is right, also, in this remarkable suit,
tht those who have been professionally connected with it, for
or against the complainant, should be mentioned. In this instance it will show that the cause was conducted by lawyers of
ability and experience, and that they made a searching scrutiny
into the veracity of the witness, by all of those- ingenious and
pressing inquiries which the rules of evidence permit to be
asked, and which the case itself and the testimony of the witiess suggested. The cross-interrogatories answered by Madame
Despau were filed by L C. Duncan, J. J. Mercier, Z. M. Shepard, John Slidell, Julien Seghers, P. A. Zost, H. Lockett, and
Isaac T. Freston, Esquires.
It is w rthy of notice, too, that the testimony of Madame
Despau was taken three times, at long intervals. It is admitted
that she does not contradict herself in any thing she said in her
first examination, and that she did not afterward testify to more
or less than she did at first. It was urged, however, against her
credit, that the subsequent examinations were so frequently in
the language of the first, that she must have had copies of the
latter and merely repeated them, from which it might be inferred
that she had been tampered with. But it was not intimated by
whom, as a better discretion, in the absence of all proof of it,
restrained counsel from giving personality to the insinuation,
either as to the counsel of the complainant or herself. I have
carefully compared the depositions in connection with the interrogatories and cross-interrogatories put to the witness, without
having been able to find such an identity in her answers, as
inight not very well have occurred from the sameness of the interrogatories, in each instance to a witness who is asked for a
narrative of the same facts. Besides, her testimony was not
orally given in court. It was taken by commission each time,
long enough before the trial in the court below, for the considerate examination of cotmsel, who could have obviated what is
now complained of, by a motion to the court for an oral examination of the witness in court, which the judges would have
granted if they had seen in the depositions any foundation for
the charge; or from any thing in them, the slightest indication
that the witness had been corrupted, or that, the commissioners,

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

547

Gaines v. Relf ot al.
in taking hor testimony, had done so irregglarly, by permitting
her to use a copy of her first -deposition. But the conclusive
answer to the objection is, that the witness is sustained by other
witnesses in all respects, except as to the fact of the marriage,
of which she was a witness, and of which -they were not, but
which they swear was admitted to them by Mr. Clark. The
next objection to the credit of the witness, and that most relied
upon by the court for discrediting her testimony; and also that
of her sister, Madame Caillavet, is, that neither of them, in
giving the account of the purpose for which Madame Despau
and Zulime left New Orleans for New York, in 1801, tell, that
Zulime was then enciente by Clark, and went there to be confined. There is no doubt that Zulime gave birth, in Philadelphia, during that absence from New Orleans, to the child known
in the record maidenly as Caroline Clark, and afterwards as
Mrs. Barnes. But as to the time of the birth of that child, there
is nothing in the record conflicting with any probability against
the declaration of Madame Despau, that it took place in 1801,
notwithstanding the uncertain statement made by Mr. Coxe, of
her birth having been in 1802, which last date has been used to
show that Caroline was the child of Mr. Clark, and could not
have been the child of Desgrange, on account of the latter's
absence in France.
Before, however, a witness (as Madame Despau,) will be discredited by an omission to state a fact of the kind mentioned,
it is necessary to look at the interrogatories put to her by counsel on both sides of -a cause, to determine if they called for
such an answer either directly or indirectly and that it had
been purposely withheld. Or that the fact was in issue between the parties, and that a question to elicit it had been
reluctantly answered by the witness. I have more than carefully examined the interrogatories, which both Madame Despau
and Madame Caillavet were asked to answer, without finding
in any one of them any thing relating to the point, that Zulime
left New Orleans to be confined at the north. And if there had
been such a question, it would have been suppressed by the
court *on account of its irrelevancy, to the issues between the
parties as they are made by the bill and answers of the defendants.
The fact of Zulime's confinement in Philadelphia, is not in any
way alluded to in either the bill or the answers, and though disclosed in the testimony of Ir. Coxe in the way it is, it cannot
be. usZ.d to discredit the -witness, or to bear upon the subse.
quent mnarria# between Clark and Zulime, which is the point
at issue, or have any other effect, if it - should have any at all,
than to show.that Clark, according to the religious faith in which
he was born, and according to the new laws of Louisiana, en-

SUPREME COURT.
Gaines v. Relf et al.

couraged by the canon law, and frequently done under like circumstances, had determined to legitimate the child Caroline,
per subsequens matrivnonium, believing her to be his child. But
there is nothing in the evidence of either of the aunts of the complainants, showing that either had wilfully suppressed Zulime's
confinement, to the injury of the defendants or with an intention
to conceal it; or that they knew Caroline was the child of Clark,
and not the child of Desgrange. Indeed if the then law of Louisiana is to be decisive of the paternity of a child born during
the marriage of parties, Caroline would be considered the child
of Desgrange, for as the time of her birth is not established, (notwithstanding what is said to the contrary,) on account of the differences between witnesses in respect to it, and the absence of
Desgrrnge in its beginning being equally uncertain according
to the proofs in the case, no inference can be drawn of such
a time of absence, as precludes the possibility of access between husband and wife. Besides as there is no proof in this
case, when Desgrange sailed for France upon his mission to settle the Carri~re estate, the first heard from him there being as
late as the - July, 1801 ; in his letter to Mr. Clark, even allowing Mr. Coxe's conjecture to be certain, that Caroline was
born in the spring of 1802, and not in 1801, as the other -"itnesses say she was, she would by the law of Louisiana at that
time, be adjudged to be the child of Desgrange, as that declares
a child born in ten months in wedlock to be legitimate. L. 4, tit.
33, p. 4; and there could be no legal foundation to exclude her
from that paternity, on account of the absence of Desgrange.
In this point of view, the witnesses cannot be charged with the
suppression of the fact of the confinement of Zulime in Philadelphia, and that was done to conceal from Desgrange that she
had conceived and borne a child in his absence. They could
neither have known the fact if it was so, nor had they any right
to assert it contrary to the conclusion which is made by the law
in such a case. They therefore are not liable to be discredited
in that way, by connecting it with the ecclesiastical paper
which the defendants offered as evidence in the case, of which I
shall speak hereafter both as to its inadmissibility as testimony,
and its worthlessness to establish the validity of marriage between
Desgrange and Zulime. In an inquiry to deprive a child born
in wedlock of its legitimacy, on account bf the non-access of the
husband, the law requires certainty as to the time of absence,
and without it, a child's filiation and its inheritance cannot be
taken from it, by any comparison of witnesses or inferences from
evidence. In such a case there must be dates, not as to a day
,or a month, but that time enough has passed from the absence
of the husband and birth of a child, to make it certain that, he

DECEMBER TERM,

1851.

549

Gaines v. Relf et al.
could not have been the father of it. I will here in this connection -ive the testimony of Mr. Coxe, as that is principally relied
upon to establish that Madame Despau had wilfully suppressed
the fact of her sister's confinement in Philadelphia, and that
interroupon that account she should be discredited. The 14th
put to Mr.-05,Coxe, is: Did Daniel Clark ever
gatory, rec.
speak to you or write to you, about his relationship with Madame
Desgrange, the reputed mother of the complainant Myra. If ay,
state what that conversation was, the circumstances connected
with it and all about it. The answer will be found on the
615th page of the record. ' Daniel Clark did both write and speak
to me about his relationship or connection with Madame Desgrange, the reputed mother of the complainant Myra. In the
early part of the year 1802, Madame Desgrange presented
herself to me, with a letter from Daniel Clark, introducing
her to me and informing me in, confidence, that the bearer
of that letter, Madame Desgrange, was pregnant with a child
by him, and requesting me as his friend, to make suitable provision for her, and to place her under the care of a suitable physician ; requesting me at the same time to furnish her with whatever
money she might want and stand in need of, during her stay in
Philadelphia. As the friend of Clark, I undertook to attend to
his request and did attend to it. I employed the late William
Shippen, AL D., to attend to her during her confinement, and
procured for her a nurse. Soon after the birth of the child, it was
taken to the residence of its nurse. That child was called
Caroline Clark, and at the request of Mr. Clark, the child was
left under my general charge and exclusive care until the year
1811. After that period she was not so exclusively under my
charge, but I had a general charge of her, which continued up
to the period of her marriage with Dr. Barnes, formerly of this
city. She is now dead, as is also Dr. Shippen, before spoken of.
Daniel Clark arrived in this city within a very short time after
the birth of Caroline, which was, I believe, in April, 1802, when I
received from him the expression of his wishes in reference to
the child. He left here shortly afterwards, as before stated by
me. During Daniel Clark's subsequent visits to Philadelphia,
he always visited that child, acknowledged and caressed it as
his own, and continued to give me the expression of his wishes
in reference to her. On the occasion of Mr. Clark's visit to Philadelphia, immediately after the birth of Caroline, in conversation
with me in reference to Madame Desgrange, he confirmed what
he stated in his letter of introduction, stating to me that he was
the father of this illegitimate child, Caroline, and that he wished
me to take care of her, and to let the woman have what money
she stood in need of until she returned to New Orleans. In Mr.

SUPREME COURT?.
Gaines v. Relf et al.

Coxe's answers to subsequent interrogatories, he substantially repeats parts of the foregoing without addition or anything material
besides. In his answers to the 20th, 21st, and 22d interrogatories,
he recites the marriage of Zulime N~e Carrire with Dr. Gardeffe,
in August, 1808, she having arrived, from -New Orleans, in Philadelphia, in the autumn of 1807. In his answer to the 27th interrogatory, he says : " I also think it proper to state, that in the
year 1808, after Madame Desgrange had rettrned to Philadelphia
from New Orleans, and when lodging in Walnut street, she sent
for me, and during a private interview with her, at Mrs. Rowan's,
where she lodged, she stated that she had heard Mr. Clark was
going to be married to Miss Caton, of Baltimore, which she
said was in violation of his promise to marry her, and added that
she now considered herself at liberty to connect herself in marriage with another person, alluding doubtless to Dr. Gardette,
who at the moment of the disclosure, entered the room, when
after a few, words of general conversation I withdrew, and her
marriage to Mr. Gardette was announced in few days after. "1
Now , let it be remembered, that the point, under discussion is
not whether Caroline is the child of Clark or Desgrange, but
whether Madame Despau committed perjury in saying that she
was one of the children of Desgrange, and that she purposely
and corruptly, concealed and withheld the fact of Zulime's confinement with Caroline in Philadelphia, from her apprehension
of its influence upon the interest of the complainant whose witness she was. Nor is it at all a dispute or doubt of Mr. Coxe's
veracity. It is merely a question, and a very important one too,
of evidence, and the legal use which can be judicially made of
it, altogether unconnected with the immorality of the pers6ns disclosed in the record, with whom the complainant is unfortunately
associated only as to the legitimacy of her birth, and of whom
personally she knew nothing in her bringing up, nor any thing
since, beside those voluntary communications to her after her
marriage, concerning her birth and paternity, made to enable
her to receive her just rights in her father's estate.
By what principle, then, is it, I ask, or by what cases for
authority to do sb, is it, that the unsworn declarations of Clark,
now repeated by Mr. Coxe, have been used to discredit Madame
Despau's sworn 'evidence concerning a transaction in which
Coxe discloses Clark to have been the criminal transgressor, and
Madame Despauat most, only as the attendant of a frail sister
to aid her in her travail,.and to shelter her &nd her family from
disgrace. There are those whom the weak, the unfortunate, and
the wicked have natural claims upon, not disallowed by the
law, and the discharge of which, without a violation of law, it
does not even reproach. This is putting the narrative of MIr.

DECEMBER TERM,

1851.

551

Gaines v. Relf et al.

Coxe in the strongest light against Madame Despau, upon a
presumption only, however, that she knew Caroline to be the
child of Clark, and that she was not the child of Desgrange. I
say knew - apart from that intuitive perception, which is not
evidence, which women have in other matters, and especially
concerning such as we are speaking of, bringing them to a conclusion with the quickness of instinct, and which are only uncertainly reached by men, after a comparison of facts with the instincts of their own nature, without that of women to aid them.
The distinguished Sherlock says, without any satirical intention
or meaning to say that women are inferior to men, " Whilst she
trusts her instinct she is scarcely ever deceived, and she is generally lost, when she begins to reason." And I need not tell my
brethren, as evidence rests upon our faith in"human testimony,
as sanctioned by experience, that the conclusion of the great
divine, is that of the law, and that the testimony of women is
weighed with caution and allowances for them differently from
that of men, but never with the slightest suspicion that they are
not as truthful. Here then we have from Mr. Coxe, Clarke's
confession of an offence, subjecting him to stripes and the galleys, used to discredit a sworn witness guiltless of any-offence
against the law in relation to other facts, subsequently occurring
as related by her, and who as to the fact related by Mr. Coxe
may have been as much the victim of Clark's contrivance, as
Zulirne had been of his seduction. I make no theory, ei~cept in
the sense of a theory resting upon facts; but may it not be probable, enough to relieve this witness from the imputation of
having wilfully concealed the fact of Zulime's confinement, and
her knowledge that Caroline was the child df Clark, that Clark
in the absence of Desgrange in France, arranged matters for her
confinement in Philadelphia, with the purpose also of having
inquiries made concerning the validity of her marriage with
Desgrange, or only pretendingly so, without communicating to
the witness that he was the father of her sister's child, conceived, and to be born in Desgrange's absence, with the view of
protecting both herself and its mother from disgrace, and both
of them from prosecutions for their. offence upon the return of
the deluded husband. Concealment of its birth by the child
having been left in Philadelphia, was obviously the motive of
Clark and Zulime. When that was determined upon after the
birth of Caroline, her filiation might have been obvious enough
to the witness, but as there is no proof that it had been pre.
viously communicated to her by Clark or Zulime, it does not conflict at all with her declaration that the object of her going ,to
the north with her sister was to procure proofs of the previous
marriage of Desgrange. And if it be as it is said by those who

552

SUPREME COURT.
Gaines v. Relf et al.

discredit her that Caroline was not born until June, 1802, there
had been at the time- of her departure from New Orleans no
such development of Zulime's pregnancy as necessarily to disclose it to her or any one else. It is in proof in the record, that
the witness and Zulime left New Orleans in 1801, that Clark
followed them and was in Philadelphia before the expiration of
that year and for three months of 1802, or until some time in
April. It is not unreasonable then, when the credit of a witness depends upon the supposed concealment of a single fact,
that under such circumstances her ignorance of it §hould be iraplied until nature pregnantly disclosed it. Further from Mr.
Coxe's narrative it does not appear that Madame Despau was
ever present at his interviews with her sister, or that he ever had
an interview with her. And it does appear that when Zulime
delivered to him the letter of which he speaks that Madame
Despau was not present. It cannot, then, be assumed, as it has
been, without further testimony to bring the knowledge of it
home to her, that she knew any thing about that letter, or that
Mr. Clark had said he was the father of Caroline, or of any of
those arrangements made by Mr. Coxe for Zulime's confinement.
Her purpose, then, for accompanying her sister to the north, as
it is told by herself, ought to have been relied upon, because it
is unaffected by any statement made by Mr. Coxe, of Clark's
declarations to him. Madame Despau says she was at the birth
of Caroline, and that it took place in 1801. This is all that she
does say, which can connect her dn any way with her sister's
confinement with that child. Mr. Coxe is the only witness who
says that the child was born in 1802, shortly after Mr. Clark's
departure from Philaderphia. This is said with the qualification, to the best of his belief. Such an immaterial difference
betveen two aged persons concerning a fact which took place
more than forty y6ars before they were testifying, cannot be used
to discredit either" especially when both are before the court, in
legal position equally entitled to credit. I will speak of the
equality hereafter. Upon the testimony of Mr. Coxe, I make
here a remark to show how little reliance can be put in his
memory as to the time when Zulime presented to him the letter
of which he speaks, or the time of Caroline's birth, or as to
Clark s visits to Philadelphia, except that immediately preceding
his departure for Europe. In his first examination, he did not
state, I suppose he did not xemember What he did state in
his second, subsequently disclosed by his correspondence with
Clark, that the latter had been in Philadelphia from late in 1801
to the last of April, 1802, all of which time Zulime was there,
that'it was in April that Clark returned to New Orleans and
afterwards revisited Philadelphia in July, 1802, Zulime being

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

553

Gaines v. Relf et al.
still there, on his way to Europe. When he speaks, too, of the
time of Caroline's birth, he does not do so with certainty, but
only as he believes. There is then no cause for using any part
of his testimony to discredit Madame Despau.
The next objection to Madame Despau's credit is made on
account of her- alleged want of character. It is said she was
unchaste, and the defendants were allowed to put in proof a
paper or record of a separation between herself and her husband
upon his prosecution for a. divorce upon which a judgment was
given in his'favor, which cut her off on account of his charges
of her infidelity, from any interest in the property which he had,
to a part of which she would otherwise have been entitled. I
confess my inability to see, even supposing it to have been altogether regular, as an adjudication in a competent tribunal,
which it is not, how this paper was received as evidence in this
case, either against the witness or against the complainant. I
have expressed myself too moderately with respect to the character of this paper, but in vindicating what I believe to be the
rule of evidence, I am anxious not to offend any one, and to
keep myself within the strictest limits of judicial forbearance.
I will not say one word by way of inference concerning it, but
will appeal to the paper itself for the correctness of what I shall
say. It cannot be used as evidence in this suit because it is
res iner olios acta. It does not in any way affect the truthfulness of Madame Despau, and cannot be used to affect her character, except so far as every wife may be'degraded in the public estimation, when she is charged by her husband, truly or not,
with infidelity to her marriage vow. This paper itself discloses
in terms, and not inferentially, every fact which I am about to
state. It seems that Madame Despau and her husband lived
unhappily and had agreed to a divorce. Whilst the proceedings
for it were pending, for the distribution of property, but after a
decree had been made, her husband advertised the property for
sale. She, by an application to the court, enjoined the sale,
claiming that community in it to which she was entitled by the
laws of Louisiana. The husband's answer asks the court to
permit the property to be sold and that he may be allowed to
give bond to deposit the proceeds with - responsible person.
The court allowed him to do so. In a year after this, the husband filed a petition in which Madame Despau is charged with
having left Louisiana for "some place in North America," without the consent of -her husband, and that she is living in adultery. Supplemental affidavits were filed, declaring that Madame
Despau had left the territory, and an affidavit in which it is said
"her conduct had not been regular, and that her husband had
xeason to complain of her." In what respect is not stated.
VOL Xi

SUPREME COURT.
Gaines v. Relf et al.

Upon these ex parte affidavits, made without the service of any
process upon Madame Despau, or any appearance by her or for
her by any person, to the last petition of her husband, the court
decreed that she had forfeited her community in the property,
divorcing them a mensd et thoro. The grounds of the decree
were not stated. It certainly could not have been for proved.
adultery, there being no such evidence either general or particular against her. It does not become me to utter a word of reproach against the judge by whom that decree was given, but I
may say the decree itself and the use of it in this case, show,
whatever care may be taken to prevent irregularities in the trials
of causes, that they sometimes occur to tie great injury of parties, and to a want of confidence in the uniform correctness of
judicial action.
But besides this paper, the defendants called witnesses to impeach the character of Madame Despau. I regret too, that there
was in this particular a disregard of all of those rules in respect
to the impeachment of the credit or character of a witness. I
do not remember a more marked departure from them. Before
being more particular in this matter, I will state my judicial
convictions of the manner of impeaching the character of a witness for veracity or for want of moral character, annexing judicial decisions, that it ma r be seen how far my views are susthined by auth6rities, and how much they were violated in this
instance.
I understand that the credit of a witness may be impeached,
l.st, by the results of a cross-examination. 2d, By witnesses
called to disprove such of the facts stated by the witness
whether in his direct or cross examination, as are material to
the issue. 3d, By evidence reflecting upon the character of the
witness for veracity. Under this the evidence must be confined to
general reputation, and particular facts will not be permitted,
for the law presumes every one to be capable of supporting the
one, and that it is not likely that a witness, without notice,'will
be prepared to answer the other. B. N. P. 296, 297; Rex. v.
Lookwood, 13 How. St. Tr. 210, Sir Thomas Trevor, Att. Gen.
argu. Rex v. Layer, 16 How. St. Tr. 285, per Pratt, C. J. 1 Rex
v. Lookwood, 13 How. St. Tr. 211, per Lord Holt, who says the
mischief of raising collateral issues would itself be a sufficient
reason foi the adoption of this rule. The regular mode of examixiing into the character of the person in question, is to ask
the witness whether he knows his general reputation among his
neighbors -- what that. reputation is, and whether from such
knowledge h.e would believe him upon his oath. Rex 7'. WatSon, 32 How. St. Tr. 495, 496; Rex v. Delamotte, 21 How. St.
T r.811., per Buller, J.; Mawson v. Hartsink, 4 Esp. 103, 104,

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

555

Gaines v. Relf et 41.
per Lord Ellenborough; The People v. Mather, 4 Wend. 257,
258; The State v. Boswell, 2 Dal. 209, 211. Anon. 1 Hill, S.
Car. 258. These cases are cited from Taylor on Evidence, &c.
&c. I do not think that the inquiry into the general character
of a witness is restricted to his reputation for veracity, but that
it may be made in general terms, involving entire moral character. On the other hand, notwithstanding the bad character of
the witness in other respects, the witness deposing to that may
be asked if the former has not preserved his reputation for truth.
Rex v. Lookwood, 13 How. St. Tr. 211; Carpenter v. Wall,
11 A. & E. 803; Lord Stafford's case, 7 How. St. Tr. 1459,
1478; Sharp v. Scoging, Holt. N. P. 2, 541, Gibbs, C. J.;
1 Hill, 251, 258, 259; State v. Boswell, 2 Dev. (Lpw.) 209,
210; Hume v. Scott, 3 A. K. Marsh. 261,262. But when it is
attempted to impeach a witness on account of a want of moral
character, it cannot be done by the impeaching witness "merely
stating what he has heard others say, for those others may be
but few. He must be able to state what is generally said of
the person, by those among whom he dwells or with whom he
is chiefly conversant, for it is this only which constitutes his
general character." The impeaching witness, too, should be
from the neighborhood of the individual whose character is in
question. Boynton v. Kellogg, 3 Mass. 192, Parsons, C. 5.;
Wike v. Lightner, 11 Ser. & Rawle, 198, 200; Kimmel v. Kimmel, 3 Ser. & Rawle, 337, 338; Douglas v. Toucey, 2 Wend.
352; Mawson v. Hartsink, 4 Esp. 103, Lord Ellenborough.
It is scarcely necessary for me to say that when the general
reputation of a witness has been impeached, that his credit may
be established by cross-examining the witnesses who have spoken against him, as to their means of knowledge and the grounds
of their opinion, or as to their own character and conduct, or by
calling other witnesses to support the character of the first witness, or to attack in their turn the general reputation of the
impeaching witnesses. 4 Esp. 103, 104; 2 Ph. Ev.433. But
no further witnesses can be called to attack the character of the
last. In other words, a discrediting witness may himself be
discredited by other witnesses, but there the recrimination must
end. Lord Stafford's trial, 7 H6w. St. Tr. 1484. In this instance the character of Madame Despau' was most signally supported. I only now mention that-another mode of impeaching
a witness is by proof that other statements were made out of
court contrary to what has been testified in court. No such attempt was made in respect to Madame Despau's statements.
It will be seen directly that my particular statement of the rules
for discrediting a witness is appropriate to the case. I now
proceed to state what was said by those who were called to im-

556

SUPREME

COURT.

Gaines v. Relf et al.

peach the character of Madame Despau. Carraby says nothing
good was said of her; another witness, that her reputation was
on the same footing as that of Madame Desgrange. Two
others, the daughters of Gardette, place her on a footing with
her sister Zulire; Courcelle says the same, and all say reports
were unfavorable to Zulime. I have given the testimony of all
of them who were introduced to impeach the character of Madame Despau. There was no attempt ro impeach her credit
except by assailing her for a want of character forty years before. Thirty-two witnesses were called to support it. They
knew her all of that time, several of them in her three different
residences -to the hour when they deposed. All of them swear
to her exemplary life and conduct in every place she had resided,
and no one of them had fouAd any thing with which to reproach
her. character or veracity. There is, perhaps, not another instance in our law cases, of a witness whose character has been
so triumphantly lifted above every imputation of offence, and
especially above the slanders of her husband, too readily received by the public, when he contrived, in her absence, judicially to rob her of her portion of his estate, and that, too, more
than a year after they had been divorced a mensd et thoro, which
released her in every other particular as well as to residence,
from all marital control. There has then been a signal failure
in the attempt 'to discredit this witness on account of a want of
character or veracity. The marked difference between the witnesses upon that point, is that the few who impeach do not
swear positively as to what was generally said of her by those
where she dwelt, and those who were called to sustain her
general reputation do so, every one of them, without any qualification. Nay, more, they swear that in forty years' knowledge
of her, that they had not heard her reproached by any, and that
her life had been exemplary, particularly in the care she had
taken of those children whom her husband had falsely said she
had abandoned. Under such circumstances the defendants were
precluded from insinuating, much less from insisting upon her
want of character, and the weight of testimony excludes a different judicial conclusion.
In the different examinations of this witness, there were long
intervals between them, -&ithout any variation in any particular
but .one. That is, that in her last examination she stated that
there were circumstances which made her think the marriage
between Clark and Zulime had taken place in 1802; and that
she had previously said it took place in 1803. Such a difference might have been decisive against her veracity, had it been
connected with any thing else in her testimony which made it
probable that it was an alteration with an untruthful intention.

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

557

Gaines v. Relf et al.

It was not pretended that such was the case, but for the purpose of raising a !uspicion against her, it was intimated that
she had learned from an interested source that the defendants
could or had proved that Clark had not been in Philadelphia in
1803. Before such an insinuation can be regarded by the court
as entitled to its notice, it must be shown that it has some foundation. It has been already said that her evidence did not furnish it. It is disclaimed that the complainant's counsel furnished the information, and was only so feebly suggested that it
might have been done by the complainant, that both the ethics
of professional practice and the law discountenance such an
attempt to prejudice a court or jury against a party in a cause
upon its trial. But the difference in the depositions of the -witness may be satisfactorily accounted for. She is speaking of
the time of an occurrence which took place more than forty
years before, in connection with its locality, the presence of the
parties there, their return to New Orleans after it, the cause of
their return in connection with transactions, the larger portion
of which she relates correctly, which the defendants have proved
happened in 1802. In respect to Clark's being in Philadelphia,
and of his having followed the departure of herself and Zulime
from New Orleans in 1801, she is confirmed by the proofs furnished by the defendants, which show that he was in Philadelphia when they were there for several months beginning in 1801
and extending to April, 1802, and also again in July, 1802, until
he sailed for Europe in August of that year. In all of this the
testimony of Mr. Coxe concurs and that witness also speaks uncertainly as to time in several particulars, relating to Clark and
Zulime, with the reserve and caution of old age concerning
events happening in the middle time of life when it is engrossed
in the cares and perplexities of business.
Hitherto my object has been to show that Madame Despau
cannot be discredited by any thing contradictory in her evidence,
or by any thing offered exterior from it, or by any contradiction
of her by any other witness. It is admitted by all of my brethren
that there is no contradiction of herself in all of her examinations. No witness disproves any fact stated by her, her character for veracity rose above the attempt to assail her general reputation. It is not shown that she ever made statements out
of court contrary to her testimony at the trial, and it is shown
that the scandals against her, as they are reported by the witnesses of the defendant, are made more than improbable,,by an
exemplary life sustained there, and carried by her through forty
years into a respected old age. I think that her testimony, cor.
roborated as it is, in its most material particular, by four othe
witnesses, who are not impeached at all by circumstances in h

558

SUPREME COURT
Gaines v..Relf et al.

case, or by any attempt to ,discredit them, and two of whom the
defendant's witnesses declare were men of standing and high
character, prove the marriage between the complainant's mother
and father as fully as such a transaction can be ascertained by
proofs, and in the way which has -always hitherto been adjudicated by courts, to be sufficient to establish marriage in cases
of this kind. The corroborating evidence, are the statements of
Madame Caillavet, that Clark made proposals of marriage for
Zulime to her family after her voluntary withdrawal from Des.
grange, upon her hearing that he had then a previous wife alive.
That Clark acknowledged to her the marriage afterwards, and
that Zulime did the same. The oath of Mrs. Harper, who nursed
the complainant as the friend of her father, that Clark repeatedly
acknowledged to her that Myra was his lawful child. The will
which he made in her favor a short time before his death, which
Mrs. Harper saw and read, in which he made Myra his universal legatee, terming her in it his lawful child. The proof by
several witnesses that such a will was made by him, which no
one can doubt whose mind is open to the proper bearing of
testimohy in ascertaining truth. His solicitude about that will
and the object of itiwhen conscious that he was within the
grasp of death without a hope of a reprieve, in that last moment
of life here, when that which presses most upon the parting
spirit, is revealed in its naked truth;. Clark then said, that Myra
was his legitimate child, that he had made her the successor of
his whole 6state. With dying words pointed out where the
will would be found, and directed with all the earnestness of
his condition, that it might be delivered as soon as he died, to
him who had promised to be her tutor and guardian, to whose
hands she was confided to be brought up in the rank and con'dition of her legtimate paternity, as the dearest and last object
of her father's affection. Mrs. Smyth says that Clark always
spoke of Myra to her as his legitimate daughter, before he made
the will of 1813, then so describing her in the will, and afterwards in their convetsation about her. This witness, in her
answer to the tenth cross-interrogatory, gives the cause of the final
separation between Clark and Zulime. It is, that when Mr.
Clark was absent in Washington, individuals had, or supposed
they had, a great interest in dissolving his connection with the
mother of his child, commenced a plan of breaking it pp, by
writing to Mr. Clark imputations against hier, and by filling her
mind with unfavorable impressions against him, till at length
his mind was so poisoned, that when he arrived in New Orleans
she and he had a severe quarrel, and separated. She immediately after this left New Orleans. Madame Caillavet swears
that she was not present at the mariage of Clark and Zulime,

DECEMBER

TERM, 1851.

Gaines v. Relf et al.

but says, "I do know that Clark made proposals of marriage
for my sister, anal subsequently Zulime wrote to me that she and
Clark were married. Mr. Clark's proposals of marriage were
made after it became known that her marriage with Mr. Desgrange was void, from the fact of his having then and at the
time of his marrying her a living wife. These proposals were
deferred being accepted, till the record proof of Desgrange's previous marriage could be obtained, and Zulime and Madame
Despau sailed for the north of the United States, to obtain the
record proof. Mr. Clark acknowledged her to me as his lawful
child." Pierre Baron Boisfontaine, after reciting with much
minuteness, circumstances connected with the will of 1813, says,
Clark spoke to him of Myra as his legitimate child, and in speaking to him of her-mother, he says, "he spoke of her with great
respect, and frequently told me after her marriage with Gardette, that he would have made his marriage with her public, if
that barrier had not been made, and frequently lamented to me
that this barrier had been made, but that she was blameless."
Col. Bellechasse'also says, that Clark repeatedly acknowledged
to'him that Myra was his legitimate child, and styled her in his
will of 1813, his legitimate datighter. This witness also gives
a very full account of the will of 1813. I have cited only so
much of the testimony of these witnesses, as is confirmatory of
the testimony of Madame Despau, in respect to the marriage of
Clark with her sister, and of Clark's acknowledgment to others
of his marriage with Zulime, and of their child's legitimacy.
And now it may well be asked, upon what rule of evidence
it is, that the testimony of Mr. Coxe, standing as he does in
this case in the same legal relation as a witness, with Madame
Despau, can be used to discredit both her and her sister Madame
Caillavet. There is no contradiction by him of any fact stated
by them or either of them. No conflict between them in any
one point, unless it be, the differences between himself and
Madame Despau, as to the time of the birth of Caroline, and
the fime of Mr. Clark's being in Philadelphia in the last of 1801,
until April, 1802, in which Madame Despau is confirmed by
Mr. Clark's correspondence with Mr. Coxe, furnished by the latter for the defence in this case. Indeed, the %itnesses, though
speaking of the same persons, are testifying to different transactions in their history Mr. Coxe to a connection between Mr.
Clark and Zulime, founded upon Mr. Clark's declarations of it
to him, and Zulirne's ackhowledgnient by her delivery to him
of Mr. Clark's letter, his assistance to her in consequence of it,
his preparations for her delivery and the birth of Caroline, and
Clark's subsequent recognition of that child as his ; and M\1adamo
Despau, of a fact of marriage happening afterwards, Madame

560

SUPREME

COURT.

Gaines v. Relf et al.

Despau being present at it; and Madame Caillavet stating that
before it took place, Mr. Clark had made proposals of marr Uge
to all of her family for Zulime, after her separation from Lesgrange. Certainly Mr. Coxe's opinions concerning the marnage.
and his recital of Mr. Clark's courtships of another lady, years
after it, when hie relation to society had become changed, and
there had been added to the notoriety of his commercial enterprise, something of political consequence, ought not to be permitted to preponderate against witnesses who swear to the fact
of marriage, Clark's subsequent acknowledgment of it when
time and trouble had obscured his fancied greatness, and his repeated declarations to lisinterested witnesses that Myra was
his lawful child. But we shall see how this testimony of Mr.
Coxe has been associated with a paper in this case, to give to it
a bearing upon the evidence of Madame Despau and Madame
Caillavet, without which, they would not have been assailed,
and with which, it is according to the rules of evidence, worthless.
Having concluded in my own mind that the evidence establishes the marriage between the father and mother of Mrs.
Gaines and that she is the child of their union, I proceed to the
next most interesting point in the cause.
It is that neither their marriage nor her birth will be available
to establish the claim of Mrs. Gaines, because at the time when
Clark married her mother she had then another husband alive.
That marriEige being admitted, and that Desgrange was alive
when the marriage with Clark was solemnized, the objection
will be sufficient, unless it can be removed. Upon the part of
Mrs. Gaines, it is said, and I think is proved as the law requires
it to be done, that her mother's marriage with Desgrange is as
void on account of his having been a married mhan When he married her, as if there never had been such a relation between them.
The attitude of the parties in the cause is then this, that each
charges a bigamy in support of their respective rights-with this
difference that the defendants do so for the twofold purp 6 se of
establishing the fact upon the mother of Mrs. Gaines, and from
the nature of the testimony upon which they rely, to show that
it also disproves the marriage between her and Clark. I will examine both, and fearing that I may omit something, I will state
the proofs upon which each party relies, after having stated the
kind of proof which the law permits to be given in a civil suit,
where bigamy is the point to be determined.
A charge of bigamy in a criminal prosecution, cannot be
proved by any reputation of marriage; there must be proof.of actual marriage before the accused can be convicted. But in a
civil suit the confession of the bigamist will be sufficient when

DECEMBER TERM,

1851.

Gaines v. Relf et al.

made ,nider circumstances from which no objection to it as a
confession can be implied. The proofs relied upon by Mrs.
Gaines to establish the bigamy of Desgrange when he married
her mother, are, his confessions of it to witnesses contemporary
with the fact of their separation, more than a year before he was
prosecuted for bigamy, when it does not appear by any proof in
the ciavse that he was menaced with a prosecution. To such
confes ion is added his flight from New Orleans during the.pendency of an inquiry against him for bigamy and an adjudication
afterwards upon his return to New Orleans, by a competent tribunal, in an inquiry into the validity of that marriage, at the suit
of Zulime in her maiden name, in which judgment was given in
her favor, and against him. In respect to the marriage of her
father and mother, the complainant relies upon the proof of it
by Madame Despau, who was present when it took place, upon
the declaration of Madame Caillavet as to Clark's previous proposals of marriage to her family for her, their and her acceptance
them conditionally upon proof being obtained of Desgrange's
previous marriage. Clark's admission of that marriage to several witnesses, as I have already shown, her father's conduct towards her from her birth to his death, his frequent acknowledgment of her legitimacy, the provisions of fortune which he
made for her at different times, and the will which he made in
her behalf, declaring her to be his legitimate child, and making
her as such his universal legatee. On the other hand, the defendants rely upon the validity of Desgrange's marriage to Zulime, upon the secreby of her intercourse with Clark, or of their
alleged marriage, upon their not having lived in open cohabitation as man and wife, upon Clark's subsequent courtship of
other females with offers of marriage, upon Zulime's marriage
with Gardette in 1808, without any attempt to prove her marriage with Clark, or any application by her to dissolve it by
legal means or to enforce it with the proofs which-she had of it
when she discovered his infidelity to her. They also rely upon
certain papers to be found in the record.
The first of them is what they term an ecclesiastical record of
a prosecution of Desgrange for bigamy, and a declaration in it
imputed to the complainant's mother. The second paper is her
suit against Desgrange for alhony as late as the year 1805.
The third is a suit brought by her guardian, Mr. Davis, in her
infancy, against the executors of her father for aliment, and
the fourth is a record of a court, properly authenticated, of a suit
brought by Zulime in her maiden name against the name of
Desgrange. This last was introduced by the defendants to show,
as late as 1806, that the marriage with Desgrange had not been
legally dissolved. And until it was, it is urged that there was

562

SUPREME

COURT.

Gaines v. Relf

et al.

such an impediment in the way of her marriage with Clark as
to make that marriage null and void, the offspring of -itillegitimate, especially so for the purposes of inheritance, even admitting that her filiation as the child of Clark had been established,
It has been said that the invalidity of a marriage in a civil
suit, on account of those causes which make it void ab initio,
particularly in the case of one void on account of the bigamy
of one of the parties, may be proved by the admission of the fact
by that party. It so happens in this case that Desgrange's admission of his bigamy, excluding his admission of it to Zulime's
family for the present, is proved by a witness whose testimony
has not been assailed and cannot be. Madame Benguerel has
no connection with the family of the complainant, and her standing and character are such that the defendants could not impeach her credit on account of the want of either. She was
subjected, too, to their cross-interrogation, and it brought out
neither difference or contradiction of herself, nor any thing in
the way in which she gave her testimony to subject her to any
suspicion of friendship to the complainant or of any want of memory or unc, rtainty of her narrative. Madame Benguerel says,
q My husbai.d and myself were very intimate with Desgrange,
and when we reproached him for his baseness in imposing upon
Zulime, he endeavored to excuse himself by saying that at the
time he married her, he had abandoned his lawful wife and
never intended to see her again." In her answer to a cross-interrogatory put upon this point, she answers, I am not related
to the defendants nor with either of them, nor with the mother
of Myra, nor am I at all interested in this suit. It was in New
Orleans where I obtained my information. It will be seen by my
answers how I know the facts -I
was well acquainted with
Desgrange, and I knew the lawful wife of Desgrange whom he
had married before imposing himself in marriage upon Zulime.
Now let this evidence be taken in connection with the arrival of
Barbara D'Orci, in New Orleans from France, contemporary
with the return of Desgrange and at his instance, and the antecedent connection between them as that is represented by both,
and that there is inthe record a certificate of a marriage between
one Jacobus Desgrange and one Barbara N6e D'Orci, inevery
other particular corresponding with the relation which these persons had been in, to each other in the year 1790, excepting in
this that Desgrange was afterwards known as Jerome and not
as Jacobus, and it will be admitted that the facts just recited,
with Madame Benguerel's evidence, are sufficient to establish the
bigamy of Desgiange when he married the complainant's mother.
Against this confession, what is urged? Nothing but the misapplication of the case of Harman v. MeClelland, 16 Louis. 26,

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

563

Gaines v. Relf et al.

in which it was rightly ruled that in an application for a divorce,
it would not be granted upon the confession of a husband and
wife of adultery. The proof in the case also shows that Desgrange disappeared from New Orleans in 1802, on account of
the current charge that he was a bigamist and whilst a prosecution of him was pending for that offence. There is also proof that
he did not return to New Orleans until 1805, when Louisiana
having become a portion of the United States, he could do so
without liability to a renewal of an ecclesiastical criminal prosecution for bigamy or to the punishment inflicted by the provincial law for that offence.
But sufficient as such proof is to establish bigamy in a civil
suit the complainant adds it to record evidence of the fact of
Desgrange having been a married man when he imposed himself upon her mother in marriage. The record and judgment of a
court, of competent jurisdiction, was introduced by the defendants
as a part of their proofs to show that there was a legal impediment in the way of Clark's marriage with Zulime when it occurred,
and that continued up to 1806, wheii they allege that they were
divorced. It was used for that purpose and much relied upon, and
it was not until it was shown that the judgment in that case had
relation back to the marriage making it absolutely void ab initio,
that it was urged that the record was of no account because a part
of it was wanting. Here it is necessary to be particular. I cite
from their answers their averments concerning that record. Upon
page 58 of the record the defendants introduce it in the following
terms, " That afterwards, on. or about the 24th of June, 1806, Zulime N6e Carriire, wife of the aid Desgrange, did present ano.
ther petition to the competent judicial tribunal of the city of New
Orleans, therein representing herself as the wife and of having
intermarried with Jerome Desgrange, and praying for a divorce
and a dissolution of the bond of matrimony existing between
her and the said Jerome Desgrange, and which was subsequenly
decreed, subsequent to the bifth of the complainant, Myra; and
for further answer, say that in the city of Philadelphia, on or
about the 2d day of August, 1808, Mrs. Desgrange having obtained a divorce from her husband, Jerome Desgrange, and having resumed her maiden name, did enter into a contract of matrimony with and did intermarry with James Gardette. 11 The
preceding extract shows that the defendants not only use it to
establish the fact of a divorce, but for the purpose of sustaining.
the rightfulness of Zulime's marriage with Gardette. Now if
the record, imperfect though*it may be, shows that the divorce
could only have been decreed on account of the legal invalidity
of the marriage with Desgrange, at the time of its occurrence,
then unless it can be shown that the law interposed an impedi-

564

SUPREME COURT.
Gaines v. Relf et al.

ment to marriage in the way of the party imposed upon, until
a sentence of nullity had been obtained, Zulime's marriage with
Clark was a good and valid marriage, though for marrying without such a sentence, she may have subjected herself to the discipline of the church. It wil be seen, before this opinion is
closed, what the law is upon that point.
The deficiency in the record of divorce is the want of the petition. In every other particular it is perfect. So much so that
it discloses the object of the petition, or the cause for which the
suit was brought, and for which the judgment of the court was
given.
It was introduced by the defendants, who allege that it was a
decree of divorce, annulling the bonds of matrimony between
Desgrange and Zulime, by a competent tribunal in New Orleans; record 58, 59 ; 216, and was so pleaded in their answers.
When so introduced by them and admitted by the court as admissible evidence, the complainants proved the loss of the petition, and the short manner of entering judgments in the court of
which it was a record. 1206. I must here. remark, though so
brought forward by the defendants, that the majority of this
court has rejected it from having any such effect.
At this point, then, my inquiries begin in opposition to the
.court!s conclusion, as it has been announced by my learned brother. The points are, can we learn what is tle effect of judgment without the' petition? Can we ascertain the cause for
which the judgment was rendered without the petition?
What is the effect of the ijudgment? It is one of a court of record having jurisdiction of the subject and over the parties to the
suit. It annuls the, bonds of matrimony - as the act of a competent tribunal the judgment must be presumed to have been
rightfully rendered, until the contrary appears. This rule applies as well to every judgment or decree rendered in the various
stages of a cause, from initiation of a suit to the final adjudication,
affirming that the plaintiff either has or has not a right of action;
10 Pet. 472. The decree then had a legitimate cause until the
contrary shall be shown. Now as the defendants plead this
record to be true, averring it to be so upon their oaths, it cannot
be further inquired into by the court, with a view to take from
either party in the suit what it discloses. Its rejection by the
court places its judgment in the remarkable and unexampled
condition of denying to the complainant the benefit of the defendant's answer, as to a fact which they plead to be true.
Further, it decides against the 'complainant, not upon the deficiency of her proofs, but by a denial of a fact, sworn to by the
defendants to defeat the complainant's suit.
What but divorce, as contradistinguished from separation a

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

565

Gaines v. Relf et al.

viens6 et tMoro, could have been the cause of the suit? The
witnesses, one and all of them say, that the bigamy of Des.
grange, or his having been charge&dwith it, induced Zulime to
separate herself from him, and to return to her family.
But the cause assigned in the petition for the divorce may be
satisfactorily made out, from the law of Louisiana as it then
was, and from the rest of the record. Between 1803 and 1807,
the United States Territorial Government of New Orleans,
passed no law upon the subject of marriage and divorce. This
judgment then in Zulime's suit could not have been founded
upon any statutory enactment after the transfer of L6uisiana to
the United States. In the discussion of this point, in order that
I may be better understood, that must be kept in mind. Then
I say, that the laws of Spain as they were in the provincial condition of Louisiana, concerning marriage and divorce, and in
every other respect, by the laws of nations, and by the Act 6f
Congress of 1804, organizing a government for New Orleans,
remained in force there until legislatively repealed. Now, we
learn from those laws, that they provided for sentences of the
nullity of marriages and for divorces. From the same law, we
learn that marriage could not take place, if there existed any
canonical or civil impediment. 1 White, Recop. 44; Johnson's
Civil Laws of Spain, 50. There are fourteen canonical impediments for which divorces were granted a vineuflo matrironfii
In 1 M. & C. S. Partidas, 460, it is said there are fifteen, but
upon the examination of the recital of them, it will be found
there are substantially only fourteen, the last mentioned being
only a prohibition subjecting the party to the discipline of the
church, not extending to the dissolution of the marriage.
Canonical doctors express the fourteen impediments as I shall
state them, which for all the purposes of this case, and for understanding them, will be found explained, though not in their
order in the Partidas.
Error, conditio, votam, cognatio, crimen,
Cultus, disparitas, vis, ordo, ligamen, honestws
Si sis affinis, si forte coiro nequibus
Si parochi et duplicis desit, presentia testis
laptare sit mulier, nee parti reddita tuti.

The civil impediments are those which proceed from want of
understanding, &c. &c., and from previous marriage, the wife or
husband of the party contracting a second marriage being alive.
For such causes as have just been stated, divorces could be
granted a vinculo viatrimonii. Such was the law of marriage
and diViorce of the Catholic church, so it is still, and it was the
law of Louisiana before its transfer to the United States, and
afterward until it was legislatively repealed, and by it the judgVOL. Xii.

48

566

SUPREME

COURT.

Gaines v. Relf et al.

ment was given which divorced Zulime fr'om Desgrange. For
its continuance after the transfer of the territory to the United
States, see 2 Story's Laws, 907, and the act of the 3d larch,
1805, 2 Story, 972, expressly providing for "the continuance
of the former laws of Louisiana, until repealed or modified by
the territorial legislature."
With then the law in view, we are prepared to ask for what
cause was the divorce sought by Zulime in her petition? We
see, from the statement which has been made of the law, that it
could not have been for a supervenient cause, and that it must
have been for one antecedent to the marriage, which made it
absolutely void from its beginning, notwithstanding all the forms
of marriage had been observed. And what this cause alleged
in the petition must have been, cannot be more conclusively
shown than it is by the evidence in this case, and by the record
of divorce, excluding all other enumerated causes of divorce a
vinculo', excepting that of the bigamy of Desgrange. I shall
state the evidence hereafter, keeping myself now to the point
of the jurisdiction of the court in rendering a judgment of divorce. It having been shown that the provincial law of Louisiana was in force when the judgment upon Zulime's petition
was given, it follows, as the Cbunty Court of New Orleans was
constituted with a civil jurisdiction, comprehending also what
had been before exclusively ecclesiastical, that the court could
only grant divorces a vinculo, for the same causes for which they
could have been given by the ecclesiastical courts. Fortunately,
the position just stated is that of the highest tribunals of this
country, and in those of Lduisiana expressly, when they have
been called upon to decide what portion of the jurisdiction of
the consistory courts for enforcing the canon law, appertained
to our tribunals organized with civil jurisdiction. It follows
then that the judgment of the County Court upon Zulime's petition, defectively as that judgment is expressed, could only have
been given upon a petition for a sentence of the nullity of the
marriage between the petitioner and Desgrange. Thus with
the guide of a settled principle in respect to the law of a country transferred from one dominion to another, until that law has
been repealed, the purpose and object of the lost petition in Zulime's application for a sentence of the nullity of her marriage
with Desgrange, is made out with as much certainty as if the
petition had not been lost.
I think these results have been shown in respect to the judgment of the County Court upon Zulime's petition for a sentence
of the nullity of her marriage with Desgrange.
1. That the territorial government had not, when the County
Court gave the judgment. any statutes concerning marriage and

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

567

Gaines v. Relf et al.

divorce. 2. That the laws of Spain upon those, subjects were
then in force. 3. That by such law a marriage between persons, either or both of whom had a lawful wife or husband alive,
was void ab initio. 4. that the County Court of New Orleans
had a general civil jurisdiction, including the power to divorce,
but that it could not divorce for a supervenient cause, and could
only divorce a vihculo, for an impediment existing before the
marriage, which made it dissoluble. 5. That having given such
a judgment upon Zulime's petition against Desgrange, it relates
back to its origin, and is res adjvdicata controlling all other testimony in this cause, which has been given with a view of
showing that Desgrange, when he married Zulime, did not commit bigamy.
I consider, then, that the complainant has established by such
proof as the law requires, that Desgrange committed the offence
of bigamy when .he married her mother; that she could legally
disregard the connection and marry another person; that she
did marry Clark, that the complainant is the only offspring
of their union, and is entitled to her legitime in her father's
estate.
I will here take another view of the record to show that there
is in it, complete, and satisfactory secondary evidence of the
object and purpose of the lost petition. The plea put in by the
counsel of Desgrange affords a clew, not of itself entirely sufficient, but which, united with the other proceedings, make up
what the law terms good secondary evidence of the contents of
the petition. It is admitted or cannot be denied, that secondary
evidence may be given to supply the loss. The plea denies the
jurisdiction of the court over divorce cases, and then urges that
the court could not consider the question of damages, until the
validity of the marriage between the defendant and Zulime had
been ascertained and declared,- validity of the marriage, it must
be remembered. Can any thing show more plainly that its invalidity was the cause assigned in the petition. Again, the
evidence in the record .of the County Court shows that Desgrange's bigamy in marrying the complainant's mother was the
subject of her petition and of the courfs inquiry. I take from
the record of the County Court a part of what, upon the trial of
the case, the defendant introduces as his testimony, which the
defendants in this suit have made theirs by the introduction of
it. The witnesses speak of imputed bigamy to Desgrange, his
flight on account of it, and his confession. In the County Court,
not one of them answers, to any thing else than to the inquiry,
whether or not Desgrange had been married, and whether or not
that wife was not alive when he married Zulime. One of the
witnesses, and the most conclusive that could be in such a case,

568

SUPREME COURT.
Gaines v. Relf et al.

tells the cause of the suits and no one disputed it. Besides, the
suit is in the maiden name of the plaintiff against the name of
Desgrange, and the cause is so entitled. Certainly nothing
more in the nature of secondary evidence can be wanting to
establish the cause for which the divorce from Desgrange was
sought Yet there is more; for two witnesses swear that her
suit was brought to get a sentence of the nullity of her marriage
with Desgrange on account of his bigamy. I cannot but regard it as singular and unelampled, too, that any objection
should have been made to the character and force of this paper
on account of the deficiency of the petition after its introduction
by the defendants to maintain an averment in their ansyers to
the complainant's bill. It was introduced and used by the defendants to show that there had been a divorce between Zulime
and Desgrange. The complainant could not object to its introduction as proof of an averment in the answer to her bill. It
was good for what it was worth or for what it might disclose
for or against either party in this suit. The complainant relied
well do, to establish the original
upon it, as heh counsel may very
with
marriage
of Zulime' The
with Desgrange.
defendants
invalidity
marriage
the lawfulness
to show
uponofit the
relied
c that Clark had
'
Gardete, and the improbability from tha
ever married her. We have then, the defendants admission
that the judgment of the County Court was rendered for a cause
whiclf made the marriage with Desgrange void ab initio. To
put, then, this record aside as nothing in the case, is adenial to
the complainant of the benefit resulting from the action of the
defendants, which in my view is a surprise entitling her to a rehearing of the cause by this court. It ma'ers not whether the
surprise has been caused by the action of the court and not by
that of a party to the suit. The same right follows, In cases
at common-law a new trial would be granted, and in cases in
chancery a rehearing will be. given. If such secondary evidence
shall not be deemed sufficient to make,,up for a lost paper, one,
too, in this case, which the complainant had every motive to
produce, which she sought for in the office where it was, without success, but which the defendants subsequently obtained
andmade evidence, as they thought exclusively for themselves.
Without regard to the want of the petition then, I cannot suppose that any thing less than a literal copy would satisfy those
who have taken a different view of it from myself.
My views having been given upon th , credit of Madame
Despau and upon the testimony relating to the bigamy of Desgrange, I turn to that upon which the defendants rely to disprove it. Their first paper is termed the ecclesiastical proceedings in a prosecution against Desgrange, in 1802, for bigamy.

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

569

Gaines v. Relf et'al.

It will be found at length in the opinion read by Mr. Justice
Catron for the majority of the "udges who sat in the trial of the
cause.
It is not used to show that he was not a bigamist, for the
paper contains only an interlocutor order, suspensive of farther
action, until the inquiry shall be resumed. But it is used, because it is said there is in this paper a declaration by Zulime
of her disbelief of the charge against Desgrange, and that she
was then his wife.
It is the misfortune of the complainant, that her case has been
considered by the court with the rejection of the judicial proof
of the bigamy of Desgrange, which is admitted to be admissible
in evidence, and with the allowance against her of another
paper, to which her counsel objected in the court below and
here also, which in the way it was offered is not admissible.
Two questions arise upon this paper: Is it an official registei
or record of a court, authenticated as it should be to make it
testimony? What is its effect as testimony?
It has no other authentication of its genuinepess than the declarations of Bishop'Blanc and Father Kemper. The latter
says, he is the keeper of the records of the Catholic church at
New Orleans, and that the copy in the record is an exact copy
of a paper found there, Rec. 577. The bishop says, he has the
charge of such records of the bishopric as exists, and he finds
among them a paper which is truly copied, Rec. 694.
Under these certificates this paper has been used by the court
to rebut the parol proofs of the bigamy of Desgrange. The intention cannot be objected to, but rebutting testimony must have
legal -admissibility before it can be received in evidence. In this
instance it is altogether wanting.
Public writings consist of the acts of public functionaries in
the executive, legislative, and judicial departments of government, including under such general head the transactions which
official persons are required to enter into books or regsters, or
to file, where books are not kept, in the course of their public
duties, and which occur within the circle of their own personal
knowledge and observation. To this class may be referred the
acts of. foreign states and the judgments of foreign courts.
Now this ecclesiastical record, as it is called, is either a transaction which official persons are required to keep, or it is the
judgment of a foreign court. Whether one or the other, the
certificates of the bishop and Father Kemper are not sufficient
to make it testimony.
If it shall be said to be the first, before it can he received as
an official register, it must be shown by the party offering it, to
be one which the law recuired to be kept for the public benefit

570

SUPREME COURT.
Gaines v. Reif et al.

Such writings are admissible in evidenc- on account of their
public nature, though their authenticity be not confirmed by the
usual tests of truth; namely, the swearing and the cross-examination of the persons who prepared them. They are entitled to
this extraordinary degree of confidence, partly because they are
required by law to be kept, partly because their contents are of
public interest and notoriety, but princiially because they are
made under the sanction of an oath of office, or at least under
that of official duty, by accredited agents appointed for that purpose. Moreover, as the facts stated in them are entries of a
public nature, it would often be difficult to prove them by means
of sworn witnesses. The same rule prevails with respect to
foreign and colonial registers. That is, copies of such foreign
registers will onlybe admissible as proof where they are required
to be kept by the law of the country to which they belong.
Taylor on Evidence, 2, 1050. In Huet v. Le Messurier, 1 Cox,
275, a copy of a baptismal register in Guernsey was rejected,
because it did not appear by what authority it was kept. In
Leader v. Barry, 1 Espinasse, 353, and in the Athlone Peerage,
8 .C.& Fin. 262, copies of the marriage register in the Swedish
ambassador's chapel, at Paris, and a copy of the book kept at
the British ambassador's hotel, in Paris, in which the ambassador's chaplain :had made and subscribed entries of all marriages
of British subjects celebrated by him, were rejected upon the
same principle. The rule in its application is made more certain, for we find, contemporary with some of the cases mentibned, that an examined copy of a marriage register in Barbadoes
was admitted, it expressly appearing that such a register was
kept by the law of that colony. So a Jewish record of circumcision, kept at the Great Sj-nagogue, -inLondon, was rejected,
though it was proved that the entries in it were in the handwriting of a deceased Chief Rabbi, whose duty it was to perform the rites of circumcision, and to make corresponding entries in the books. Davies v. Lloyd, 1 C. & Fin. 295, per Lord
Denman & Patteson, JJ. When this last decision was made,
'its correctness was questioned by some members of the profession as not being reconcilable with the principles regulating the
adimission of the declaration of persons in the course of office
or business. But it has not been judicially questioned, and is
judicially considered to be a decision within the rifle as to official registers, though there .have been careless departures from
it. The reasons for the rejection of the copy in that case, were,
that the'law did not require such a record to be kept. That it
did not appear how those entries were kept in the synagogue to
secure them from .false entries, or to whose custody they were
exclusively officially confided. So also the birth, maiTiage, or

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

571

Gaines v. Relf et al.

burial register, of any dissenting chapel in England was rejected,
until the act of 3 & 4 Viet. c. 92, provided for them to be received
as evidence, when they have been deposited in the office of the
Registrar-General and entered in his list, pursuant to that act.
1 have thus shown what the rule of evidence is in respect to
public or official writings, from adjudicated cases. The same
rule prevails in the courts of all of the States of this Union,
and has hitherto done so in the courts of the United States. In
England we have just seen, that the statute of 3 & 4 Vict. confirms it, by the provision which it makes in respect to the registers of dissenting chapels. In Louisiana the rule is substantially
the same as it is in the courts of the other States - the only difference being that it is better guarded and has been put, in its
application to cases there, upon a broader or more precise comprehension of the philosophy of evidence. This paper, under the
decisions of the courts of that State, would not have been permitted to be evidence in the cause. Each State may regulate
for itself the admission of such writings in evidence. Until it
shall be done, the general rule must be in all of them as it has
been, and it is Binding in the courts of the United States.
It matters not that this paper is termed an ecclesiastical record. Such a designation gives it no authority over any other
official register. It has the same force and no more than any
other paper of the same kind would have from any other church
or sect of Christians in our country. It stands upon the same
footing as such a paper would, coming from the bishop and rector of an Episcopal church, or from any other denomination of
Christians. All of them under our constitutions - State and
national - being separately, according to the faith of each, upon
an equality and having the same legal protection from all tortious interference and disturbance. The rule for which I have
been contending, induced me, in the consideration of this case,
to reject the certificate of the marriage of Desgrange with Barbara D'Orci, introduced by the complainant. It is not sufficiently authenticated to. make it evidence any more than the
ecclesiastical paper is -but
it is as much §o. And I -should
not have mentioned it at all, had it not been that this court, in
maldng its decision, has used her declarations in that paper to
show that Barbara and Desgrange were not married, though both
admit they were engaged to be married, and that she left her
father's house with that intention.
But I have not yet done with tnis paper. Fatiguing as it is
to me to state all of the legal objections to its admissibility hi
evidence, I yield my own convenience to the importance of the
rule for which I am contending, in some hope that what I write
may attract professional atention, and prevent the disregard of
it again.

572

SUPREME COURT.
Gaines v. Reif et al.

Before this paper with such certificates could be made evidence as an entry or file in the course of business or of office, it
should have been shown that it was filed or entered contemporaneously with the act to which it relates. So strict is this rule
to guard against impositions of papers as official registers,
that it requires, either where the oxiginal or a copy is offered,
that it shl1 appear to have been made or entered contemporaneously with the transaction. Where seve:al days had passed
before the file or entry was made the paper has always been rejected. I give the cases, comprehending, from the first to the
last of them, a long time. Price v. Torrington, 1 Salk. 285;
Vance v. Fairis, 2 Dall. 217; Curren v. Crawford, 4 Ser. & Rawle,
3; 5; Ingraham v. Bockins, 9 Ser. & Rawle, 285; Forsythe v.
Noreross, 5 Watts, 432. And in Waller v. Bowman, 8 Watts,
544, the interval of a day between the transaction and the entry
was held to be a sufficient objection.
Indeed, I do not know a rule of evidence which has been
more uniformly adhered to than this has been. I regr t that it
should have been overlooked in this case, for I know it will be
mischievously used, though I may not be able to anticipate
the extent of mischief it may do. I take the rule to be this;
that such registers must be promptly made, at least without such
delay as to impair their cr.edibility, and that they must be made
by the person vhose duty it is to make them, and in the mode
required by law, if any has been prescribed. Doe v. Bray, 8 B.
C. 813; Walter v. Wingfield, 18 Ves. 443. This ecclesiastical paper, now so much relied upon and so fatally used against
the complainant, has no one of the requisites to make it evidence. It has a date, but how it got among the"records of the
church, or when, or by whom it was put there, no one knows.
I remember a case where the record of a baptism made by
a minister before he had any connection with the parish, with
the private memorandum of the clerk who was present at the
ceremony, was rejected. It was not contemporaneous with the
occurrence; but the clerk's memorandum was not'enough. How
far short this ecclesiastical paper is from having such proof to
sustain it! I will now proceed to apply the rules of evidence
as they have been stated, because it wdll show that more formidable objections exist to the use of this ecclesiastical paper
than merely legal insufficiency of its authenticity.
It purports to contain the action of public authorities having
a criminal jurisdiction, before Louisiana was ceded to the United States. The presumption is that it and other documents
like it had a regular official depository. The defendants invoke
it as such. It should then have been placed upon the transfer
of the public papers of Louisiana, with the authorities of the

DECEMBER TERM,

1851.

Gaines v. Relf et al.

United States who were appointed to receive them. That, it
seems, was not done. This paper, then, was retained by the
civil or ecclesiastical authorities of Spain as one not included
in such as were to be delivered up to the United States, but as
one which might be left in the cathedral at 'New Orleans,
although it was a public document. The latter being the fact,
it is not unreasonable to ask, before it shall be used as an authentic document, upon the certificates of those who had no political connection then, with the cathedral of New Orleans, for
some proof that this paper had been regularly derived from the
authorities by whom it had been provincially kept, and that it
had been faithfully and honestly preserved.
The Catholic church in Spain, and the Spanish ecclesiastical
authorities in New Orleans, had a political character, and did
exercise an undefined jurisdiction in criminal matters of a c rtain description. And records may have been kept of its transactions.
But, since the cession of Louisiana to the United States, the
Catholic society in New Orleans has not had any political connection with that institution. There has not been any regular
association or hierarchy of Catholic Christians there, since the
change of government. The cathedral church, formerly a part
of that institution, became private upon the transfer of the Province to the United States, whatever may be its voluntary ecclesiastical subordination to the church of which it was once a
political part. This separation suggests at once tlie inquiry,
what portion of the records and papers of the original Spanish
hierarchy, were transferred to the private and unrecognized body
of American Catholics in New Orleans? Also what measures
were taken by them in their new relation to our government to
preserve them from mutilation or from additions? Have there
been in the cathedral of New Orleans regular keepers of these
papers from the beginning of the political change in the condition of that church? None of these inquiries can be judicially
assumed. Courts cannot recognize any private association of
persons or sect of Christians as legitimately the successors of
the political authorities of Spain, for the custody of documents
of a public nature. If these records had been handed over by
the bishop to his successor, or were considered as any part of
those public archives which were to be transferred to the United
States, proofs of such connection should have been made before
the paper in question could be received as evidence.. There is
no proof of any such connection, or that any thing of the kind
was done. All that is proved about it is that the present bishop
has the charge of such papers as are to be found in the cathedral, without any proof that they were regularly transmitted to

574

SUPREME COURT.
Gaines v. Relf et al.

him by his predecessors or to any one of them who succeeded
to the diocese after its sepration from the authorities of Spain.
Nothing, for the purpose of making this paper evidence, can be
inferred from the fact that there is still in New Orleans a congregation of the same name and faith worshipping in the same
building. The inquiries suggested cannot be taken upon trust.
The pertinency of them must be obvious, when it is remembered
that this paper has found its way into this case upon the oaths
of the present incumbent of the cathedral, who is only thirty-two
years of age and of a prelate of recent accession to that dignity;
neither of whom have spoken or can speak of the integrity of
the papers of which they say they have the care, or of the manner they have been kept by their predecessors, or how they were
derived from the ecclesiastical authorities of Spain.
I speak with a proper sense of the sacred characters which they
fill, but I cannot' judicially recognize them to be the successors
of the public authorities of Spain in Louisiana for the custody
of papers forming a part of its provincial judicial documents.
If the paper in question had been handed over officially to the
predecessors of the bishop, or had been allowed inadvertently to
continue among the archives of the cathedral, the bishop should
have been called upon to prove all that he knew about it, before
this paper was made evidence in this case. And so of any
other that may be in the archives of the cathedral, and which
may be hereafter offered as evidence in any other case. For all
that appears this paper may have found its way irregularly and
fraudulently into the archives of the church. No one proves
that it formed a part of them at any time preceding the commencement of this suit. It had been repeatedly sought for without success. When found by the defendants - or for them it was under circumstances which show that the papers of the
cathedral have not been kept with care or regularity, or with any
knowledge of what they were. What they now are as a whole
is not known. They have neither been collated nor catalogued.
What they were when the ecclesiastical authorities of Spain
ceased to have a political existence in Louisiana no one knows.
The bishop speaks of them as being only a part of what once existed.
In this deficient condition of the archives of the cathedral,
without knowing how it has happened, I cannot say that any
paper bas been abstracted or fraudulently added, to serve such a
purpose as this paper has done. But I car- say, from the proofs
ia this cause, that the archives of the cathedral have been too
negligently kept, for any paper in them of provincial date, to be
received as evidence, without the most cau'Jous scrntiny into its
authenticity. The rules for the admission of public papers as

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

575

Gaiges v. Relf et al.

evidence must be rigidly complied with in respect to them, or
consequences may follow in Louisiana, which have not hitherto
been anticipated. Comprehending, as they must do, notices of
marriages, births, and deaths, they may be invoked to guide or
disturb the descents of property or to fix and unfix a relationship
between person's differently from that which has been generally
recognized. Iy object in what I have hitherto said concerning
this ecclesiastical paper, has been to show that it was not admissible in evidence either as an official register or a. judicial
proceeding.
I proceed now to show the misuse which has been made of
it and its worthlessness as testimony.
It does not disprove Desgrange's admission that he was a
married man when he married Zulime. It positively leaves him
under a criminal prosecution for bigamy. The order given in
it is not an acquittal. It suspends proceedings only for further
investigation, and releases Desgrange from jail, because, up to
that time, his guilt had not been proved. In other words, the
evidence was thought sufficient to subject him to another trial,
and not enough for a final judgment against or for him. Such
is the paper. It cannot, then, be used for any other or larger
purpose. The depositions which it contains cannot be made
evidence in any ease between other parties. The whole of the
paper is an unfinished suit in which nothing was determined.
It stands upon the same footing as other unconcluded prosecutions, where there has been a judgment of discontinuance, nonsuit, nolle prosequi,or the ignoramus of a bill by a grand jury.
All of us know that the proofs taken in either of these eases
cannot be used as evidence in another inquiry into the truth of
facts at issue. They are excluded, as well by the practice in
Louisiana, as they are by the other State courts, and by those
of England. Indeed, the rule excluding such proofs includes
the exclusion of such as are annexed to judgments in a criminal
prosecution. Such a judgment cannot be given in evidence in
a civil action to establish the truth of the facts on which it was
rendered, any more than a judgment in a civil action could be
given for the same purpose in a criminal prosecution. I cite
the cases, Smith v. Rummens, 1 Camp. 9; Hathaway v. Barrow,
1 Camp. 151; 2 C. M. & R.'139; Jones v. White, 1 Str. 68, B.
N. P. 2:33; Hillyard v. Granth am, cited by Lord Hardwicke in
Brownsword v. Edwards, 2 Ves. Sen. 246; Gibson v. McCarthy,
Cas. Temp.'Hardw. 311; Wilkinson v. Gordon, 2 Add. 152; Jamieson v. Leitch, Miln. Eccle. Tr. Temp. Radcliffe, 690. These
cases establish, without a doubt, that this ecclesiastical paper
ought not to have been admitted as evidence to affect in any
way the right of the complainant.

676

SUPREME

COURT.

Gaines v. Relf et al.

I will now notice another departure from the rules of evidence,
in the use which has been made of one of the depositions in it,
said to be Zulime's.
The rule is, that depositions taken in one cause may be used
in another trial between the same parties, involving the same
issues, if the witnesses are dead or absent. They have never
been permitted, when the witness was alive and within the jurisdiction of the court. No case can be found in which it has
been done before it was allowed in this, and this will never be
cited as an authority for a different rule. The rule is the same
everywhere. In no courts has it been more clearly affirmed
than it has been in the courts- of Louisiana. In Hennen v.
Munro, 4 N. S. 449, it is said that a deposition of a witness
taken in a former suit is admissible if he be dead or absent.
Here the fact in dispute was the bigamy of Desgrange. For
that he was arraigned, and in fact tried. Among other depositions found in the proceedings, is one which it is said was made
by Zulime. The object of the defendants was to use it, to show
that she had admitted herself to be the wife of Desgrange, and
had expressed her disbelief of his bigamy, after it is said she
had married Clark. They were perinitted to do so, though it
was known to the court and to the parties, that Zulime was
alive, and then within the jurisdiction of the court. Indeed, the
defendants had joined in a commission to take her testimony.
Why it was not executed does not satisfactorily appear. But
that she was within the court's jurisdiction when this case was
tried, and that it was known to the court and to the defendants,
the record proves. The defendants then had no legal right to
use a deposition which they ascribed to her, as having been
made in a criminal proceeding more than forty years before. If
her testimony was wanted for their defencs, they ought to have
made her a witness. They could have done so. There was
nothing in hbr relation to the parties in this suit to prevent it.
Had she been made a witness, and in her examination had
made a different representation of facts from those attributed to
her in the deposition, then would have ocurred the question,
whether the latter could be used to contradict and impeach her.
The use of such depositions, is what is termed secondary evidence. In order to make them substitutes for the viva voce testimony of the deponents, it is essential that they be regularly
taken under legal proceedings duly pending, on an occasion
sanctioned by law; and unless the case be provided for by statute, or by a rule of court, it must further appear that the witness cannot be personally produced. I give the rule as it is,
without meaning that the courts of the United States could
make any such exception by a rule of court. But the rule, as I

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

577

Gaines v. Relf et al.

have given it, is substantially admitted by the defendants, for they
did not attempt to avail themselves of the deposition as evidence in their favor, until they had sought to make an apparent
foundation for doing so, by an attempt to prove, by a compari.
son of handwriting;' that the signature to the deposition was
Zulime's. It will attract the notice of the profession with some
surprise, that experts should have been called to prove, by comparison, Zulime's signature to this deposition, when the proof
concerning it could have been made by herself, with an explanation of all the attending circumstances.
But I pass on, as hastily as I can, to another objection to the
use of this deposition, and one more interesting than those
which have been already stated.
It is, that by the law of Louisiana, as it then was and still is,
Zulime could not be a witness in the criminal prosecution
against Desgrange, supposing her to be his wife, as the defendants assert her to have been. A husband may not be a witness
for his wife, or the wife for the husband,in a criminal proceeding. A wife may impeach marriage to obtain a sentence of
nullity; she may be a witness to certain facts in relation t6
those impediments deemed by law sufficient to annul the marriage. But neither by the civil nor canon law, or by the common law, can she be a witness for or against her husband, when
he is pirosecuted for any offence which the law punishes in his
person. Nor can she be a witness in a prosecution of him for
bigamy with herself, until after the relation of husband and
wife has beeni proved not to be legal, on account of direct and
positive proof of the husband's first marriage; then she may be
a witness to prove the second marriage. I read from 1 Greenl.
sect. 339, p. 409, this sentence: "Upon a trial for bigamy, the
fixst marriage being proved and not controverted,.the woman
with whom the second marriage was had, is a competent witness, for the second marriage is void. But if the, proof of the
first marriage were doubtful, and the fact is controverted, it is
conceded she would not be admitted. It is said in Cowen's
Phillips, vol. 1, p. 79, ed. of 1849: on an indictment for a second
marriage, though the first wife cannot be a witness, yet the second wife may, after proof of the first marriage; after such
proof she would be competent to give evidence for as well as
against the prisoner. Such was the law of Louisiana when
Desgrange was prosecuted for bigamy, and when Zulme was
forced into it as a witness. I know of but three exceptions to
the incompetency of a wife to testify against a husband in acriminal case; they give to her ample security against his abuse.
She is a competent witness in an inquiry against her husband,
upon a charge which affects her liberty or person. Such, for
VOL. XI.

49

SUPREME COURT.
Gaines v. Relf et al.

instance, as a prosecution for a forcible marriage, though she
may have cohabited with him. 2 Russ. 206; Wakefield's case,
4 How. S. T. 575; Hawkins, P. C., B. 1; C.41, § 13: or -he
may be a witness for any gross injury committed on her person.
Lord Audley's case, 1 S. T. 393; 3 How. S. T. 413: she may
be a witness if he beats her, to protect herself from his future
brutality. Such being the law, the deposition ascribed to Zulime in the prosecution against Desgrange was illegally taken,
and it cannot be used for any purpose relative, certainly not to'
affect the rights of third parties. What was the state of the
prosecution when she was summoned to give testimony?
There had been no proof of Desgrange's former marriage.
There was proof of his having married her. She then stood, as
far as that prosecution had been carried, as the wife of Desgrange. The Vicar-General presiding in it, says, not being able
to prove the report of Desgrange's bigamy, and having no'more
proofs for the present, let all proceedings be suspended. Under
such circumstances,. the mother of the complainant, then twenty-two years of age, was called upon to give.testimony against
Desgrange. He had imposed upon her it 'is true. She had
parted hers lf from him on account of it. But is it remarkable,
being the father of two of her children then alive, that she
should refuse, when forced to testifv, to convict him of an offence, the punishment of which was stripes and the galleys? I
represent the paper precisely as it is. The deposition of Zulime was illegally taken there; it is so here, and this court. in
making up its opinion in this case, should not have considercd
it as admissible in evidence.
But in,another view this deposition is good for nothing. It
places Zulime in an inconsistent position with herself, and it is
opposed by all the other proofs in this cause. Its utmost weight,
in respect to her, is to diminish the force of her declaration, in
respect to the filiation and legitimacy of her child, and that very
remotely. Her acts and conduct are at variance with the deposition; the last was taken when she had been for some time
separated from Desgrange, avowedly for his bigamy in marrying
her. She had not lived with him for more than a year, and did
not at any time afterwards live with him. When the prosecution of Desgrange began she was living with her family.
When Desgrange was released from prison no steps were taken
by either for a reunion. He left New Orleans immediately upon
his release from jail, and did not return to it until after the Vicar-General's power to resume the prosecution against him had
ceased, by the transfer of Louisiana to the United States. He
is charged in the prosecution with an intention to leave New
Orleans to avoid it. He did so instantly upon his release from

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

579

Gaines v. Relf et al.
prison. He returned in three years; then the relations of man
and wife between them were not resumed, nor sought to be by
either. On the contrary, as soon as it could be done, she prosecutes him in her maiden name, to be released from kis name,
and for a divorce. A judgment was given in her favor. -The
deposition ascribed to her neither proves nor disproves his bigamy. It means, and cannot be made to mean any thing else,
than that Desgrange and herself had been married, that she had
left him on account of reports of his bigamy, that she had not
then been able to get proofs of it; that it then gave her no uneasiness and that she had not heard, and did not-believe, that he
had three wives. In the condition in which she stood in that
tribunal, shall what she there was induced to say to save Desgrange from disgraceful punishment, be relied upon to overturn
and outweigh all the other evidence in the cause, 'of her marriage
with Clark; his and her repeated confessions of it to witnesses,
and his recognition of their offspring as his legitimate child?
It is remarkable, too, that this deposition, as well as others in
this ecclesiastical record, confirms all the facts related by Madame Despau. Her voyage from New Orleans to the norththe object of it- the time when it was made; the arrest and
imprisonment of Desgrange for bigamy, his flight -from New
Orleans, though not in the way stated by her; the subsequent
cohabitation of Clark and Zulime; that Clark 'and Zulime
were in Philadelphia for several months in the fall of 1801, and
spring of 1802, under circumstances involving familiar relations
and intercourse; that they thought there was a sufficient cause
for them to keep the marriage secret, Clark having been told
by counsel that a sentence of the nullity of Zulime's marriage
with Desgrange must be obtained, before her marriage with him
could be safely proclaimed. Both parties have repeatedly declared that they were secretly married. Clark, from the birth
of the complainant until he died, in all of his conduct to her, acted
consistently with such a declaration. He frequently declared
her to be his lawful child. No one doubts that he made a will,
in which he proclaimed her to be so, making her his universal
legoatee, whatever may have become of that vill after his death.
Against all of this evidence, there is nothing but the deposition
in the ecclesiastical record, which has been forced in evidence
in this cause, contrary to law.
I will now briefly notice two other papers which the defendants were permitted to use as evidence in this cause in violation
of every rule for its admission. One of them is the record of a
suit for alimony, which, it is said, was brought by the mother
of the complainant, against Desgrange, in 1805. The other is
a proceeding by A-. Davis, the guardian of the complainant,

580

SUPREME COURT.
Gaines v. Relf et

81.

against the executors of Clark, for maintenance during her infancy, in which she is termed the natural child of Clark.
The petition in the first is in the usual formula to get such a
case before the court, but the facts averred in it are not sworn
to. It is signed by counsel in behalf of the petitioner, but without more to show that she had directed it, or that she was in
any way informed of its contents. It is dated about the time
of the complainant's birth. The object of the defendants in
introducing this paper is to show that the mother of the complainant admitted herself in the petition to be the wife of Des
grange, three years after her alleged marriage with Clark. This
cannot be done. Such a paper would not be admissible in a
suit against Zulime herself. It cannot, then, be so in any other
suit between other parties. The petition, in such a case, is not
admissible in another suit against the petitioner, because, not
being sworn to, its language is regarded as merely the suggestion of counsel, made for the purpose of bringing in a defendant
to answer. An answer in chancery, put in under oath, is receivable against the party who swears to it; but that the narrative part of a bill in equity, or a declaration at common law can
be used in another suit against the plaintiff in the first, has
never been decided. The reverse has repeatedly been. It would
certainly not do in the artificial and technical modes, in which
rights are prosecuted in courts of justice to make us answerable
for the manner in which they are described or averred by counsel. If, then, the mother of Zulime would not be bound in
another suit by what is stated in the petition of the paper in
question, it must be admitted that the paper was erroneously
used as evidence, to effect the rights of her child in this suit.
It is only necessary to say concerning thae statement in the
proceeding brought by Davis, that he denies upon oath that he
authorized his counsel to say, that the complainant was the
natural child of Clark.
I have now noticed every paper, which has been brought into
this suit as evidence. MLy views of each of them are sustained
by cited authorities. They show that the ecclesiastical record,
and every paper in connection with it, and the records for alimony, have been forced into this case as evidence for the defendants contrary to law.
Besides these papers, the defendants have no other evidence,
to gainsay the proofs which the complainant has given of her
father's marriage with her mother, her right to marry him when
she did so, on account of the bigamy of Desgrange. There is
nothing in the record, making it doubtful that her father and
mother repeatedly acknowledged that she was their legitimate
-child. One witness, and one only, was called by the defendants

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

581

Gaines v. Relf et al.

to prove that on one occasion, Clark spoke of her to him as
a natural child. That was De la Croix. He says that Clark
spoke of her as such to him. His testimony cannot be allowed
to outweigh Clark's declarations, to Bellechasse, Boisfontaine,
and Mirs. Harper, that she was the lawful child of his marriage
with her mother, especially when this was said to those witnesses, contemporarily with what De la Croix says, Clark said
to him, and to all of them for the same purpose. De la Croix
says Clark told him so, when he asked him to become her tutor,
and to be. one of his executors to that will in which she was
called his legitimate child and universal legatee. The other
witnesses speak of the same time in connection with that will.
De la Croix says, he saw that will in its envelop; Mrs. Harper
saw and read it. She swears that Clark spoke of her in it as
his le-itimate child and universal legatee. Clark spoke again
of that will to his friends at his bedside in the last hour of his
life. Their testimony is on the record. It is full, positive,
direct, and particular, without any difference between them.
The credit and character of those witnesses are unimpeached.
The defendants attempted to assail them, but these witnesses
examined for that purpose, one and all' of them, declare that
Bellechasse and Boisfontaine were persons of truth, honor, and
standing. No one has attempted to assail the veracity of Mrs.
Harper. De la Croix's statement must have been a misunderstanding of Clark's language. If not so, still it must yield to
the testimony of three witnesses, to each of whom Clark said
at different times in connection with his will, that Myra was
hig legitimate child, and to two of whom he admitted his marriage with her mother.
There was but one way to get rid of the force of the complainant's evidence in support of her legitimacy. It was to
assail the integrity of her witnesses. The way in which that
was attempted, I-have shown in respect to Mesdames Despau
and Caillavet. It has succeeded with the majority of the judges
who have tried this cause with me. But I feel authorized to
say, that in all of my experience in the profession, I have never
heard of witnesseg so assailed before and upon such illegal testimony; not insufficient, but inadmissibly introduced into this
cause for that purpose. My brother Daniel thinks as I do, and
will express himself accordingly. Besides, these witnesses have
been said to be unworthy of credit, when in the most important
particulars of their testimony, concerning Clark's marriage with
the mother of the complainant, and of her legitimacy, they are
confirmed by other disinterested witnesses to whom Clark admitted both; not once, but several times on different occasions. These persons are strangers to the parties in this suit,
49*

582

SUPREME COURT.
Gaines v. Relf et a.

in all of those relations of life which might be supposed to in.
cline them to favor either. They have not any connection with
each other, except in those social relations which made them
companions and the intimate friends of Clark. They have lived
apart at remote distances for many years since the death of
Clark, knowing nothing of his child, except as she was seen by
them in her infancy, receiving publicly the caresses of her father
and hearing from him his acknowledgments that she was his
legitimate child. Boisfontaine tells us, that Clark frequently
told him, after Zulime's marriage with Gardette, that he would
have made his marriage with her public, if fhat barrier had not
been made, and frequently lamented to him that it had been
made, but that she was blameless. Bat this witness shall speak
for himself. His testimony is taken from the record without
the change of a word. "Couart of Probate.
WILLIAME WALLACE WHITNEY,

and MYA, his wife,
V.

E. O'BEARNE, and others.
Interrogatories to be propounded to witnesses on behalf of
the complainants in this cause:
1st. Were you acquainted with the late Daniel Clark, deceased, of New Orleans; if so, were you at any time on terms
of intimacy with him?

2d. Did the said Daniel Clark leave, at his death, any child
acknowledged by him as his own? If so, state the name of
such child; whether said child is still living; and, if living,
what name it now bears; as also state when and where and
at what times said acknbwledgment of said child was made.

3d. Have you any knowledge of a will said to have been executed by said Clark, shortly before his decease; did you ever
read or see the said will, or did Daniel Clark ever tell you that
he was making said will, or had made said will? If so, at what
time and place; and if more than once; state how often and
when and where.
4th. If you answer the last question affirmatively, state whether

the said Daniel Clark ever declared to you, or to any one in

your presence, the contents of the said will; and if so, state the
whole of said declarations, and the time, place, and manner, in

which they were made, before whom, and all the circumstances
which occurred, when such declaration was made.
. th. State how long before his death you saw the said Daniel

DECEMBER TERM,

1851.

588

Gaines v. Relf et al.

Clark for the last time; how long before his death he spoke of
his last will, and what he said in relation to his afo:esaid child:
6th. State whether you ever heard any one say he had read
the said will; if so, state whom, what was said, and whether
the said person is now living or not.
W x. W. WORTHINGTON,
(Signed.)
For Plaintiff.
Cross-Examined.
1st. Each witness examined and answering any'one of the
foregoing interrogatories, is desired to state his name, age, residence, and employment; and whether he is in any manner connected with or related to any of the parties to the suit, or has
any interest in the event of the same.
2d. How long did you know Daniel Clark, and under what
circumstances ? And if you presume to state that Daniel Clark
left any child at his decease, state who was the mother of said
child, and who was the husband of that mother. State all the
circumstances fully and in detail, and whether said Clark was
ever married; and if so, to whom, when and where.
3d. If said Clark ever acknowledged to you that he supposed
himself to be the father of a child, state when and where he
made such an acknowledgment, and all the circumstances of
the recognition of such a child or children, and whether the act
was public or private.
4th. Did said Clark consider you as an intimate Mrend, to
whom he might confide communications so confidential'as those
relating to his will? If aye, state what you know of your own
personal knowledge of the contents of said will, and be careful
to distinguish between what you state of your own knowledge,
and what from hearsky.
The defendants propound the foregoing interrogatories with
a fall reservation of all legal exceptions to the interrogatories in
chief, the same not being pertinent to the issue, and the last of
said interrogatories being calculated merely to draw from the
witnesses hearsay declarations.L. C. DUNCAN,
(Signed.)
For Defendants.
Iii pursuance of the annexed commission, dirteted to 'me, the
undersigned, justice of the peace, personally appeared Pierre
Baron Boisfontaine, who, being duly sworn to declare the truth,
on the questions put to him in this cause. in answer tothe foregoing interrogatories, says:
1st. In reply to the first interrogaTory, he answers:
I was acquainted with the late Daniel Clark, of New Orleans,
and was many years intimate with him.

SUPREME COURT.
Gaines v. Relf etal.

2d. In reply to the second interrogatory, he answers:
Mr. Clark left at his death a daughter, named Myra, whom
he acknowledged as his own, before and after her birth, and as
long as he lived. In my presence he spoke of the necessary
preparation for her birth; in my presence asked my brother's
wife to be present at her birth; and in my presence proposed to
my sister and brother-in-law, Mr. S. B. Davis, that they should
take care of her after her birth. After her" birth he acknowledged her to me as his own, constantly, and at various places.
He was very fond of her, and seemed to take pleasure in talkring to me about her. When he communicated to me that he was
making his last will, he told me he should acknowledge her in
it as his legitimate daughter. The day before he died, he spoke
to me about her with great affection, and as being left his estate
in his last will. The day he died he spoke of her with the interest of a dying parent, as heir of his estate in his last will.
She is still living, and is now the wife of William Wallace
Whitney.
3d. In reply to the third interrogatory, he answers:
About fifteen days before Mr. Clark's death, I was present
at his house, when he handed to Chevalier De la Croix a sealed
packet, and told him that his last will was finished, and was in
that sealed pcket. About ten days before this, he had told me
that it was done. Previous to this, commencing about four
months before his death, he had often told me he was making
his last will. He said this in conversations to me on the plantation, and at his house; and I heard him mention this subject
at Judge Pitot's. I frequently dined at Judge Pitot's, with Mr.
Clark, on Sundays. The day before he died, he told me that
his last will was below in his office-room, in his little black
case. The day he died, he mentioned his last will to me.
4th. In reply to the fourth interrogatory, he answers:
I was present at Mr. Clark's house, about fifteen days before
his death, when he took from a small black case, a sealed packet,
handed it to Chevalier De la Croix, and said, my last will is
finished; it is in this sealed packet with valuable papeis; as you
consented, I havd made you in it, tutor to my daughter. If any
misfortume happens to me, will you do for her all you promised
me; will you take her at once from Mr. Davis? I have given
her all my estate in my will, an annuity to my mother, and
some legacies to friends; you, Pitot and Blechas;e, are the
executors. About ten days before this, Mr. Clark, talking of
M+r, said that his will was done. Previous to this, he often
told me, commencing about four months before his death, that
he wag making his last will. In these conversations, h9 told
me that in his will he should a6knowlcdge his daughter Myra

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

585

Gaines v. Relf et al.

as his legitimate daughter, and give her all his property. He
told me that Chevalier De la Croix had consented to be her
tutor in his will, and had promised, if he died before doing it, to
go at once to the North, and take her from Mr. Davis; that she
was to be educated in Europe. He told me that Chevalier De
la Croix, Judge Pitot, and Colonel Bellechasse, were to be executors in his will. Two or three days before his death, I came
to see Mr. Clark on plantation business; he told me he felt
quite ill. I asked him if I should remain with him ; he answered
that he wished me to. I went to the plantation to set things in
order, that I might stay with Mr. Clark, and returned the same
day, to MAr. Clark, and stayed with him constantly, till he died.
The day before he died, Ir. Clark, speaking of his daughter
Myra, told me that his last will was in his office-room below, in
the little black case; that he could die contented, as he had
insured his estate to her in the will. He mentioned his pleasure
that he had made his mother cbmfortable by an annuity in it,
and remembered some friends by legacies. He told me how~
well satisfied he was that Chevalier De la Croix, Judge Pitot,
and Bellechasse, were executors in it, and Chevalier De la Croix
Mlyra's tutor. About two hours before his death, Mr. Clark'
showed strong feelings for said Myra, and told me that he wished
his wxill to be taken to Chevalier De la Croix, as he was her
tutor as weli as one of the executors in it; and just afterwards
XIr. C!ark told Lubin, his confidential servant, to be sure, as
soon as he died, to carry his little black case to Chevalier De la
Croix. After this, and in a very short time before Mr. Clark
died, I saw Mr. Relf take a bundle of keys from Mr. Clark's
armoire, one of wich, I believe, opened the little black case; I
had seen MAr. Clark open it very often. After taking these keys
from the armoire, Mr. Relf went below. When I went below I
did not see \r. Relf, and the office-room door was shut. Lubin
told me that when Mr. Relf went down with the keys from the
armoire, he followed, saw him then, on getting down, go into
the office-room, and that Mr. Rel;, on going into the office-joom,
locked the office-room door. Almost Mr. Clark's last words
were that his last will must be taken care of on said Myra's
account.

5th. In reply to the fifth interrogatory, he answers:
I was with Mr. Clark when he died; I was by him constantly
for the last two days of his life. About two hours before he
died, he spoke of his last will and his daughter Myra in connection and almost his last words were about her, and that this
will must be taken care of on her account.
6th. In reply to the sixth'interrogatory he answers:
When. after Mr. Clark's death, the disappearance of his last

SUPREME COURT.
Gaines v. Relf et al.

will was the subject of conversation, I related what Mr. Clark
told me about his last will in his last sickness. Judge Pitot and
John Lynd told me that they read it not many days before Mr.
Clark's last sickness; that its contents corresponded with what
AL. Clark had told me about it; that waien they read, it was
finished; was dated and signed by Mr. Clkrk; was an holographic will; was in Mr. Clark's handwriting; that in it lie acknowledged the said Myra as his legitimate daughter, and bequeathed all his estate to her; gave an annuity to his mother,
and legacies to some friends ; the Chevalier Delacroix was tutor
of said Myra, his daughter; Chevalier Delacioix, Colonel Bellechasse, Judge Pitot, were executors. Judge Pitot and John
Lynd are dead. The wife of William Harper told me she
read it. Colonel Bellechasse told me that ir. Clark showed it
to him not many days before his last sickness; that it was then
finished. Colonel Bellechasse and the lady, who was Madane
Harper, are living.
In reply to the first cross-interrogatory, he answers:
My name is Pierre Baron Boisfontaine- my age about fiftyeight; I have been some time in Madisonville; the place of
my family abode is near New Orleans, opposite side of the river;
I was eight years in the British army; I was several years agent
for AL Clark's plantations; since his dec th have been engaged
in various" objects; I now possess a house and lots, and derive
my revenue from my slaves, cows, &c. I am in no manner connected with, or related to, any of the parties of this suit; I have
no interest in this suit.
In reply to the second cross-interrogator-, he answers:
I knew Daniel Clark between nine and ten years; I knew him
as the father of Myra Clark; she was born in my house, and
was put by Mr. Clark, when a few days old, with my sister and
brother-in-law, Samuel B. Davis. I was Mr. Clark's agent for
his various plantations -first the Sligo and the Desert, then the
Houmas, the Havana Point, and when he died of the one he
purchased of Stephen Henderson. He respected our misfortunes,
knowing that our family was rich and of the highest standing in
St. Domingo before the revolution. The mother of Myra Clark
was a lady of the Carri~re family. Not being present at any
rarriage, I can only declare it as my belief, Mr. Clark was her
husband. To answer this question in detail as is demanded, it
is necessary that I state what was communicated to me. It
was represented to me that.this lady married Mr. Ddsgrange in
good faith; but it was found out some time afterwards that he
already had a living wife, when lady N~e Carriere, separated
Mr. Clark, some time after this, married her at the
from 'im.
North. When the time arrived for ittobe mide public, interested

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

587

Gaines v. Relf et al.

persons had produced a false state of things between them;
and this lady being in Philadelphia, and Mr. Clark not there,
was persuaded by a lawyer employed, that her marriage with
Mr.. Clark was invalid; which believing, she married Monsieur
Gardette. Some time afterwards, Mr. Clark lamented to me
that this barrier to making his marriage public, had been created.
He spoke to me of his daughter Myra Clark, from the first, as
legitimate; and when he made known to me that he was making his last will, he said to me that he should declare her in it
as his legitimate daughter. From the above I believe there was
a marriage.
In reply to the third cross-interrogatory, he answers:
Mr. Clark made no question on this subject before and after
her birth, and as long as he lived he exercised the authority of a
parent over her destiny. He was a very fond parent; he sustained
the house of Mr. Davis and Mr. Harper, because my sister had
her in care, and Mrs. Harper suckled her. He sustained Harper
as long as he lived, and conferred great benefits on my brotherin-law. He spoke of her mother with great respect, and frequently told me after her marriage with Mr. Gardette, that he
would have made his marriage with her public if that barrier
had not been made, and frequently lamented to me that this
barrier had been made, but that she was blameless. He said
he never would give Myra a step-mother. When, in 1&13,
he communicated to me that he was making his last will for
her, he showed great sensibility as to her being declared legitimate
in it. While I was with him at his death-sickness, and even at
the moment he expired, he was in perfect possession of his senses;
and no parent could have manifested greater affection than he did
for her in that period. Nearly his last words were about her,
and ihat his will must be taken care of on her account. She,
the said Myra, is the only child Tr. Clark ever acknowledged to
me to be his. She was born in July, 1805.
In reply to the fourth cross-interrogatory, he answers:
I was a friend of that confidential character, from the time of
said Myra's birth. Mr. Clark treated me as a confidential friend
in matters relating to her and his affairs generally.
In reply to the fourth cross-interrogatory:
I have stated what I knew concerning Mr. Clark's last will.
My recollection of these facts is distinct. The circumstances
connected with them were of such a character that my recollection of them could not easily be impaired.
(Signed)
P. BARON BOIsFONTAINE.
Which answers being reduced to writing were sworn to and
signed by the said witness .in my presence; in testimony whereof

588

SUPREME COURT.
Gaines v., Relf et al.

I have hereunto affixed my hand and private seal, at the parish
of St. Tammany, in the State of Louisiara, this twenty-seventh
day of May, eighteen hundred and thirty-ive.
(Signed)
DAVID B. MORGAN,
Jastice of the Peace. [L. s.]
A true copy of the commission for interrogatories, (and answers thereto,) propounded to Pierre Baron Boisfontaine, on file
in court of probates, in and for the parish and city of New Orleans.
W. F. C. DUPLESSIS,
New Orleans, 20th April, 1840.
Register of Wills."
Bellechass"s testimony confirms that of Boisfontaine, as to
Clark's frequent acknowledgments that Myra was his legitimate
daughter. Mrs. Smyth, formerly Mrs. Harper, who nursed her,
does the same. Each of them also speak with positiveness concerning the will of 1813. With three such witnesses to sustain
them, I believe that Mesdames Despau and Caillavet have spoken
the truth concerning Clark's marriage with Zulime. If they did
not, the testimony of Bellechasse, Boisfontaine, and Mrs. Smyth,
is the most remarkable coincidence of truth with falsehood that
has ever happened, and it can only be resisted by imputing to
all of them, a 'combination to perjure themselves for the same
purpose. That no one has said or can believe. Bellechasse and
Boisfontaine were brought into this case as witnesses, with characters of their own to command belief and respect. Neither of
them can be doubted, for the defendant's witnesses who were
brought to assail them, could only answer that both had always
been honorable men. Mrs. Smyth's veracity has not been questioned in any way. I cannot then but believe, that the paternity and legitimacy of Myra Clark Gaines has been fully established, as the law requires it to be done. There is nothing in
the case opposed to it, but those doubts and suspicions which
will sometimes bear down truth, in its relation to the extraordinary realities of life. The history of Mrs. Gaines is one of
them. It has been made more so by the result of her case in
this court.
I will now notice two other points which were urged in the
argument of this case.
It was said, the complainant could Wt recover, even if it had
been proved or was admitted that her father and mother were
married, because there had not been, before that marriage took
place, a sentence of the nullity of the marriage with Desgrange.
The other was, supposing Zulime to have been then free to
marry and that she did marry Clark, it was a clandestine

589

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.
Gaiues V. Rolf ot al.

marriage, which has no civil effects according to the law of
Louisiana, to give to the issue a*right of inheritance.
An inaccurate translation of the 4th Law, of the 20th Tit., of the
8th Book, of the Nueva Recopilacion, was cited in support of the
first. It shall be given at length, followed by the original, and
with what I believe to be a correct translation. Without doing
so, the inapplication of the law to this case, would not be
seen.
The 8th Book, Tit. 20, Law 4, Nueva Recopilacion, as translated, and cited reads,thus: "Should a woman, either married,or
even only publicly betrothed,before Our Holy Mother the Church,
commit adultery, although she should ALLEGE AND SHOW that

her marriage is

NULL AND VOID,

either on account of near rela-

tionship by consanguinity, or affinity within the 4th degree,
BECAUSE ONE OF THE SPOUSES WAS PREVIOUSLY

THER MARRIAGE,

OR
BOUND BY ANO-

or had made a vow of chastity, or was about

entering a religious community, or had some other reason YET FOR ALL THIS

she is not to be allowed to do what is forbid-

den; and she cannot prevent her husband from bringing a suit
for adultery, both against HER and the ADULTERER, as if THE MIAR-

We decree against such persons
RIAGE WAS NOT A TRUE ONE.
WHOM WE CONSIDER AS HAVING COMMITTED ADULTERY, (que

habenzos por adulteros,) the law of the fuero be strictly followed,
which treats about adulterers,and is the first law of this title."
See Nueva Rec., Book 8, Tit. 20, Law 4.
The original is as follows:
Ley II1. Que la desposada que comete adulterio, no se escusa
por dezir que el matrimonio fue ninguno y no valio.
Si alguno muger estando con alguno casada, o desposada por
palabras de presente en haz de la sancto madre Iglesia cometiere adulterio, que aungue se diga y prueue
[Don Fernando, y doila por algunas causas y razones q' el dicho maXuana en las dichas lpy
trimonio fue ninguno, hora por ser parientes
es do toto. Cap. 31.
en cbsanguinidad, o afinidad, dentro del
quarto grado, hora porque qualquiera dellos sea obligado antes
a otro matrimonio, o aya facho voto de estidad o de entrar en
religion, o por otra cosa alguna, pues ya por ellos no q' do de
fazer lo q' no deuia, q' por esto no se escusen a que el marido
pueda acusar de adulterio, asi ala rnuger como al adultero, como
si el matrimonio fuesse verdadero. Y mandamos, q' enestas
tales q' assi auemos por adu teros, y en sus bienes, se execute lo
contenido en la ley del fuero de las leyes, que fabla de los que
cometen delieto de adulterior, que es la urimera deste titulo.
vOL. XII.

50

SUPREME

COURT.

Gaines v. Relf et al.
[Correct Translation.]

Law IV. That the marriedwoman who commits adultery cannot
excuse herself by saying that the matrimony was null and void.
If any woman being married to a man, or engaged by wora
de prcesenti, in the face of the holy mother church, shall commit
adultery, and shall say and prove by certain causes and reasons,
that the said matrimony was null, either because the contracting
parties were related by consanguinity or affinity within the fourth
degree, or because either of them may have before contracted the
obligation to marry anotherperson, or may have made vow of
chastity, or to enter into any religious order, or for some other
reason, on which account they were not willing to do what they
ought not to do, nevertheless these reasons are not such as to
prevent the husband from accusin as well the wife as the adulterous man, the same as if the marriage had been valid. And
we order that, with regard to these persons, whom we hold to
be adulterers, and likewise with regard to their goods, there shall
be executed -what is prescribed in the law fuero de las leyes;
which relates to those who commit the crime of adultery.
Recopilacion de las leyes; Libro 1I, Titulo XX., de las
adulterios,incestos y estuipros.
I write diffidently upon such subjects, but not without due
care. The result of my examination is, that the lawr just given
has no bearing upon this case.
It has not so, in the first place, because the penalties to be
imposed by-it can only be applied to one who has been charged
and convicted of adultery, upon an authorized accusation. By
that is meant, such as the laws of Spain permit to be made
against an adulterer or adulteress, only by certain persons, and
within fixed times. The Spanish law for such a purpose is as
fixed as is the punishment of the offence. It does not permit
the charge to be made by any or every one. Certain persons
are named who may make it, and another can only do so when
the scandal has become notoriously offensive to public purity
and morals.
I shall cite from the Institutes of Asa Y. Maniel, illustrated
by Palaccos, having the original work and Johnson's translation before me. And I do so because I find the translation introduced into White's Recopilacion is frequently cited in Louisiana, and is so by one of the learned judges who sat in this case
in the Circuit Court.
"While the marriage is not dissolved by the sentence of the
church, the father, the adulteress, her brother, paternal and maternal uncles were legitimate accusers of the adulterer, and for
sixty days aftei a dissolution, either of them may accuse.

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

591

Gaines v. Relf et al.

Whilst the marriage continued, if the adultery is publicly
scandalous, any one belonging to the town may accuse, and for
four months afterward.
If the husband dies, the accusation may be made in six
months after, computing from the day when the crime was committed.
So, whilst the married persons were united, five months were
allowed for an accusation, unless f6rce was used, and then the
ravisher might be charged at any time within thirty years.
An accusation made after the times stated might be avoided
by the accused by such an exception. It was another available
exception if the wife could prove she had committed the offence
with the consent of her husband: so if knowing the adultery he
continues to cohabit with his wife. Nor could he accuse after
having said before the judge that he did not wish to accuse his
wife. After accusation and an acquittal for want of proofs, the
prosecution could not be renewed. A husband of bad habits
and dissolute character could not accuse." I do not notice the
note by Palacios to the text, from which the citation has just
been made, because it does not particularly bear upon the point
in question. Palacios mo recula ilus lix da; Tono Segundo;
Sep. Ed., 150.
I have, however, been more particular in citing the law for
such accusations, that it may be seen, as the mother of the complainant was never accused of adultery according to law, that
she cannot be charged now with being an adulteress, to bring
upon hertelf or her child any of the consequences which might
have resulted to both, if she had been convicted under the 4th
Law, in Title 20, of the 8th Book, of Nzueva Recopilacion.
But had she been so, the law ftero de las leyes5 by whichi she
would have been punished, dots not declare a child that she may
have had, illegitimate. That can only be done in another proceeding, in which it shall be proved that such child was the
conception of an adulterous connection.
Further, a brief analysis of the law will show that it has no
relation to the purpose for which it was cited.
It provides for five specific causes of canonical impediments
for which a marriage may be invalidated or pronounced null,
with a general provision for others of a like kind, without mentioning any civil disability for which a marriage is null and void,
and declares that a married woman, for such causes of canonical
impediment, even though her marriage on account of them was
not valid, should not prevent the husband of that invalid marriage from accusing her of ad ILery, and the person also with
whom she may have offended. And pronounces them adulterers "upon whom shall be executed what is prescribed in the

592

SUPREME

COURT.

Gaines v. Relf et al.

law fuero de las leyes, which, relates to those who commit the
crime of adultery."
I mention the impediments in the order that they are in the
case. Consanguinity or affinity within the 4th degree, a contract to marry another person, a vow of chastity, or one to enter
into any religious order.
The error of the first translation is a misapprehension of the
original in respect to the contract to marry another person. The
words in the original are, "Hora porque qualquiera dellos sea
obligTado antes a otro viatrimonio." They are rendered, "or because one of the spouses was previously bound by another
marriage." They should have been, "or because either of them
may have before contracted the obligation to marry another
person."
The difference between the two is, that the mistranslation
substitutes for a contrast or obligation to marry, which does not
excuse the woman from the charge of adultery, though it may
make her marriage invalid, an actual marriage disregarded by
her from her marriage with another, which is bigamy, and which
being imputed to the complainant's mother, is said to make her
illegitimate, because, when she married Clark, there had not
been a sentence of the nullity of the marriage with Desgrange.
The law of which we'are speaking is one which declares that
certain criminal impediments to marriage, mentioning only some
of them, shall nQt excuse a woman from being an adulteress,
when she has been either "married or betrothed before the holy
mother, the church." But bigamy is not an impediment in the
sense in which that word is used canonically in respect to marriage. It is a civil objection, because one already married, and
that marriage not being dissolved by death or the operation of
law, neither of the parties to it can contract marriage with
another without being guilty of the offence of bigamy, which
is punished by the Spanish law as an offence, differently from
what adultery is, and with the severest penalties. Had it been
intended that a marriage with a bigamist should make a woman
an adulteress, if, upon finding out the imposition upon her, she
shall abandon the impostor and marry another, it would have
been so declared. But that is not done, and therefore the 4th
law of the 20th title of the 8th book of the Nueva Recopilacion
cannot be applied in this case.
Bat there was in the argument a further misapprehension of
the ecclesiastical law of Spain in respect to the cases of marriage for which sentence of nullity were necessary, before the
marriage was cbnsidered as legally dissolved or only partially so
for separation a nensd et thoro. Such sentences were so, only
in cases of canonical impediments. whether they were such as

DECEMBER TERI,

1851.

593

Gaines v. Relf et al.

made the marriage void or voidable. But in the case of an objection to the validity of a marriage on account of a civil disability, and not a canonical impediment, no declaratory sentence
of nullity is absolutely necessary. The most familiar instances
of the last found inthe books, is, when, at the time of a second
marriage, one of the parties had been previously legally married,
and that marriage not dissolved by death or the operation of
law. Such was the marriage of the complainant's mother with
Desgrange.
In such cases, the marriage being void from its beginning, on
account of the bigamy, it is not necessary that there should be
a declaratory sentence of nullity to reinstate the party imposed
upon in all the rights of a single person, or unmarried condition.
Where there is bigamy there is never a complete marriage, it
being only an abuse of the forms of marriage in violation of the
ecclesiastical and civil law, which declares "that marriage is
null where either of the parties stand already married to another
person, for as one cannot be married to two persons at once, the
marriage to the first being valid, the other must be void."
It is true, in such cases, the ecclesiastical court may be resorted to by the party imposed upon, to get a declaration from
it that the marriage is void, but not on account of its being
a matrimonial cause exclusively of ecclesiastical cognizance,
because, as Palacios says, that. the, causes or trials of those who
contract a second marriage during the life of the first wife are
by a royal circular of the 5th February, 1770, L. 10, tit. 28, lib.
12, Neu. Recop., declared exclusively of royal or lay and military jurisdictions, according to the persons who may offend;
but that by the royal decree of the 10th December, 1781, (which,
however, does not appear in the Neu. Rec.) the ecclesiastical
jurisdiction may also take cognizance of the mode, and for the
reason expressed by the same decree. *White, Rec. 1, 46, note
28. But it is optional to the party to make such an application
to the ecelesiastial court, and if it be done, the qiestion of the
validity of the marriage wili be raised, and whatever sentence
the court may give will be binding. But if convinced of the
bigamy, the victim of it may voluntarily withdraw from cohabitation with the bigamist. ' For doing so, no penalty, ecclesiastical or otherwise, isincurred, nor any for marrying agrin without
a sentence of the nullity of such vicious marriage.
It has, however, been suggested if in a marriage void for bigamy, a party shall be allowed to withdraw from it, without a sentence of nullity being obtained, that the obligation of marriage
will be impaired. The answer is, that experience shows the
contrary, as the suit which is allowed in such cases for the restitution o6 onju'gal rights, at the instance of the party who has
50S

594

SUPREME COURT.
Gaines v. Relf et al.

been left, is sufficient to prevent such abuse, and to preserve the
integrity of marriage. In such a suit, the huisband or wife, as
the case may be, alleges that the party proceeded against, has
withdrawn from cohabitation, and asks that the defendant may
be compelled to return to it. The process to compel an answer
is vindicatory if the defendant is contumacious. When, howeyer, the party answers, the marriage can be denied; or if there
had been a valid marriage, other causes being sufficient to justify
a separation a mensd et thoro, can be pleaded in bar of the
suit. If, in such a suit, the validity of the marriage is affirmed,
the defendant is compelled to return to cohabitation. Again,
the law for punishing bigamy prevents parties from marrying in
such cases, unless the proof that it was committed against them
is certain and conclusive.
In conclusion upon this point, the law declares that bigamy
makes a marriage void as if it never had been, replaces the parties as they personally were before such a connection, and though
it may be expedient to have a sentence of its nullity declared
for the purpose of restoring rights of property, it is not necessary
to enable the party imposed upon to marry again. Evety thing
concerning :operty or marital rights, when such a sentence has
been given, returns hinc inde to its former condition. But the
sentence in such cases is not a divorce or dissolution of the marriage, for that cannot be dissolved which was never contracted,
but it is a declaration that it was null and void from the beginning, and that the party is free from any bond of marriage, and
had and hath the liberty and freedom of marrying with another
person. Not that as a consequence of the sentence the party
has a right to marry another person, but had a right before the
sentence of nullity was announced, on account of the marriage
having been void from the beginning. Duchess of Cleveland's
case against Fielding, in the Arches Court of Canterbury.
Such is the fixed form in ecclesiastical proceedings for a sentence of the nullity of a marriage on account of bigamy.
It now only remains for me to notic3 the other objection
against the right of the complainant to recover. It is that as
the marriage of Clark -with her mother was clandestine, that it
illegitimates her for the purposes of inheritance. I shall not
speak of the general or particular consequences of clandestine
marriages under the Spanish law, as the facts of the case do not
seem to me to make it pertinent. All that may have been. said
upon this point as to the effect of such a marriage in Louisiana,
upon the parties and upon children can have no influence upon
the children of marriages validly contracted in another political
sovereignty.
. The objection assumes that the marriage of Clark and Zulime

r

DECEMBER TERM,

1851.

595

Gaines v. Relf et al.

in Philadelphia in some way or other, but not definitely stated,
was subject on account of the domicil of the parties in Louisiana, to its laws prohibiting clandestine marriages. In other
words, that a secret marriage lawfully contracted by persons in
transituin a sovereignty in which such a marriage is not prohibited, will not give legitimacy to the offspring within the
jurisdiction of the domicil of the parents, if it be kept secret
there.
The right of persons to marry in every country where they
may happen to be, is not denied, if there be no impedimentthere
or in the condition of the parties in respect to the law of their
domicil to prevent them from contracting marriage. Before,
then, the validity of the marriage of the complainant's father
with her mother in Philadelphia, can be denied, it must be
shown that they could not contract it on account of a legal disability either there or in Louisiana. The first is not pretended.
The only objection to it is that she was previously married to
Desgrange. That cannot prevail, for I think it has been shown
that Zulime's marriage was void on account of his bigamy in
marrying her, and that she had the right, without any sentence
of its nullity, to marry another, either in Louisiana or elsewhere.
It is certain that in such a case of bigamy, she could marry
again in Pennsylvania. Their offspring there would be legitimate. It cannot be made otherwise, because their child happened to be born in Louisiana. Legitimacy is the lawful consequence of lawful marriage and it cannot be taken away by
any subsequent misconduct of parents in respect to the marriage itself. Heirship, or the right of legitimate children to inherit;
from, deceased parents, depends upon the law of the place wh'ere
the property may be. Parents cannot change it except as they
may do so according to law. This being so, their misconduct
cannot affect the right of a child to inherit or its legitimacy for
such a purpose, though it may, in many particulars, affect their
own rights as to each other and as to their property. Concealment, in Louisiana, of a marriage elsewhere by persons domiciled there, might very well affect such rights, or the parties to
it as relate to property parted with by either whilst they mutually concealed their marriage. But it would not do so because
there was no marriage between them, but from their not holding themselves out to the community as man and wife. It is
their duty to do that by the ordinary indicia of the relation. If
they do not, they must bear the consequences in respect to property and other matters which may concern them, from their
misconduct. But as regards their children, as they are legitimate according to the lex loci of the marriage for all purposes
and to inherit that portion which the law gives them of the

596

SUPREME COURT.
Gaines v. Relf et al.

estate of deceased parents, they cannot be affected in any way
by their parents' concealment of their marriage, if it shall be
proved to have been valid where it was contracted. The rule
in such cases is, that where the marriage is valid by the lex loci,
it will generally be held (not universally) valid everywhere for
the purposes of inheritance. If invalid there, it will generally
(not universally) be held invalid everywhere. But in either
case, e exceptions grow out of law. They must be shown to
exist as such, before the right of heirship can be excluded.
The case of Le Breton v. Nouges, 3 Mart. 60, cited for a contrary purpose, is absolutely decisive of the reverse. It sustains,
inferentially, the view of the right of the inheritance of children
under a valid marriage contracted out of Louisiana, and directly,
the right of the husband to a marital portion, though he violated
the laws of Louisiana in running away with an heiress in her
infancy to marry her in another sovereignty. The mother, too,
of his wife was declared to be her forced heir after the daughter's
death, only because the latter left no child of her own. That
case only decides this, that conjugal rights of 'property in cases
of marriages out of the State of Louisiana, the parties, being
domiciled there, depend upon the laws of the domicil." That is
strictly the case everywhere. But the filial right is not the conjugal. The law gives both, and both are protected and measured according to law.
Until it can be shown that there is a law of Louisiana excepting the child of a lawful marriage in Pennsylvania from the
rights of heirship in the first, on account of the domicil of the
parents at the time of such marriage, the child's right of inheritance cannot be denied.
I have searched in vain all of the codes of Spain and of Louisiana for such a law. I have earnestly sought in judgments of
the courts both of Spain and Louisiana for such an one. Nothing can be found in either concerning such a proposition. I
think, then, that I run no judicial risk in saying that there is
nothing in the way of law to be found interfering with the right
of Myra Clark Gaines to the heirship of such portion of her
father's estate as the law of Louisiana gives to an only legitimate child.
Something was said that her right to recover was barred by
the statutes of prescription of Louisiana. If her right under
them shall be measured by the proofs of the time of her birth,
she is not barred. If from the time of the illegal disposition or
sale of her father's estate by his executors, she is not so. If
from the character in which she sues to establish a right of inheritance, there is no statute of prescription to bar her rights.
Those of us who have borne our part in the case will pass

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

597

Gained v. Relf et al.
away. The case will live. Years hence, as well as now, the
profession will look to it for what has been ruled upon its merits
and also for the kind of testimony upon which these merits were
decided. The majority of my brothers who give the judgment
stand, as they well may do, upon their responsibility. I have
placed myself alongside of them, humbly submitting to have any
error into which I may have fallen corrected by our contempo.
raries and by our professional posterity.
The case itself presents thought for our philosophy, in its
contemplation of all the business and domestic relations of life.
It'shows the hollowness of those friendships formed between
persons in the greediness of gain, seeking its gratification in a
disregard of all those laws by which commerce can only be
honestly and respectably pursued.
It shows how carelessness in business and secret partnerships
to conduct it with others who are willing to run the risk of unlawful adventures, may give to the latter its spoils and impoverish those whose capital alone gave consequence to the concern.
It shows how a mistaken confidence given to others by a man
who dies rich, may be the cause of diverting his estate into an
imputed insolvency, depriving every member of his family of any
part of their inheritance.
We learn from it that long-continued favors may not be followed by any sympathy from those who receive them, for those
who are dearest to our affections.
It shows if the ruffian takes life for the purse which h robs,
that a dying man's agonies soothed onJy by tears and prayers
for the happiness of a child, may not arrest a fraudulent attempt
to filch from her, her name and fortune.
We can learn from it, too, that there is a kindred between
virtue and lasting respectability in life, and that tranisgressions
of its proprieties or irregular yieldings to our passions hi forming the most interesting relation between human creatures, are
most likely to make them miserable and to bring ruin upon
children.
I do not know from my own reasoning that the sins of parents
are visited i pon children, but my reason does not tell me that
it may not be so. But I do know, from one of those rays shot
from Sinai, that it is said for the offence of idolatry, " I, the
Lord God, am a jealous God, and visit the sins of the fathers
upon the children unto the third and fourth generation of them
that hate me, and show mercy unto thousands of those who lov
me and keep my commandments." It may be so for other
fences. If it be, let the victim submissively recognize him wi
inflicts the chastisement, and it may be the beginning of a.com
munion with our Maker, to raise the hope of a richer inheritance
than this world can give or take away.

598

SUPREME COUiRT.
Gaines v. Relf et al.

Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Louisiana, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed, by
this court, that the decree of the said Circuit Court, in this
cause be, and the same is hereby, affirmed with costs.

