DECEMBER TERM, 1851.
Snead v.

407

M'Coull et al.

Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record, from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Columbia, holden in and for the County. of Washington, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof,
it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court, that the
judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause be, and the
same is hereby, reversed with costs, and that this cause be, and
the same is hereby, remanded to the said Circuit Court, with
directions to award a venire facias de novo.

JESSE SNEAD, LATE HIGH SHERIFF OF HENRICO COUNTY, AND
AS SUCH, ADMINISTRATOR DE BONIS NON OF ALLBERT SEEKAMP,
DECEASED, APPELLANT, V. JULIA M'COULL, WIDOW OF NEIL
M'COULL, CHARLES L. M'COULL, ADMINISTRATOR DE BONIS
NON OF NEIL M'COULL, AND THE SAID CHARLES L. M'COULL,
MARY P., JULIA L., AND JOHN JAMES M'COULL, HEIRS OF NEIL
M'COULL, WILLIAM SELDEN, AND EDMUND CHRISTIAN, MARSHAL OF THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF VIRGINIA ET AL.
Prior to the Revised Code of Virginia in 1819 the lien created upon land by a judgment was the same as in England. in both countries the following rules prevailed:
1. That the lien of the judgment resulted entirely from the right of the plaintiff to
sue out an degit, and charge the goods and the moiety of the lands of the debtor.
2. That the election so to charge them by an degit executed, discharges from liability
the body of the defendant and the remaining moiety of the lands.
3. That the capias ad satisfacieadumexect ted, is, pro tanto, a satisfaction of the judgment which releases propri'oviqore any previous lien upon the lands, and inhibits all
recourse against the goods and chattels or lands of the debtor, with the- exceptions
of the instances of death whilst charged in execution, or of an escape from prison,
or a rescue.
A discharge under the act of Congress for the relief of persons imprisoned for debt
(2 Stat. at Large, 4, see. 2,) did not restore the lien originally created by the judgment, and waived by issuing a ca. sa.
In 1819 the State of Virginia revised her code. By a part which went into operation
on the lst January, 1820, it was enacted that, thereafter, the issuance of a ca. sa.
should constitute a lien upon lands.
But as it did not relate to past liens, the purchaser of a lien created under the Revised
Code had a good title when compared with a claimant under the lien which existed
in 1817, but which had been waived by issuing a capiesad satisfaciendum.
After a case had been argued and was under advisement, a motion to permit the complainant to file a further bill by way of supplement and amendment, which would
have made an essential change in the character and objects of the cause, was properly overruled in the Circuit Court.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Eastern District of Virginia

408

SUPREME

COURT.

Snead v. M'Coull et P-1.

The facts in the case are fully set forth in the opinion of the
court.
-It was argued by Mr.Johnson, for the appellant, and llIr. Rowbinson, for the appellee.
Mr.Johnson said, that prior to 1819, the right to issue an execution was governed by thelaw of 1748; but in 1819 the Revised
Code directed that a capias ad satisfaciendum created a lien upon
land from its date. Before that, the law was the same as in
England. The decree below rests upon the principle that the
lien is destroyed by a ca..sa. But it is not so where the debtor.
dies iA custody or escapes. . The reason is, that if the debtor is
taken from prison by a cause over -ihich the creditor has no
control, then the creditor does not suffer, but may resort to another execution.
If then he is discharged by an act of Congress, the same reason operates, and the creditor should not lose his lien. The
second section of the act (2 Stat. at Large, 4, sec. 2,) expressly
says that the judgment shall remain and be in full force. Note
68 Williams's Saunders, where the cases are collected. 2 Leigh,
257; 4 Id. 425. These cases say that the English rule is the
Virginia 'rule.
The point made by Mr. Robinson, upon which the decision
turned, was the following:
Under the judicial act of 1789, sect. 14, (1 Story's Laws
U. S. 59,) as expounded in Wayman v. Southard, 10 Wheat. 24,
the courts of the United States have power to issue writs of execution on their judgments; and under the process acts of 1789
and 1792, (1 Story's Laws U. S.67, 257,) the forms of executions and the forms and modes of proceeding in suits at common law, including (according to the decisions in Wrayruan v.
Southard, 10 Wheat. 32, and Duncan v. Darst, et al. 1 How. 306,)
the conduct of the officer in the execution of the process," whether mesne or final, and all the regulations and steps incident to
it from its commencement to its termination, are to conform to
the law of the State as it existed in September, 1789, so far as
that law can be made to apply.
To.je Virginia act of 1748, concerning executions, (5 Hen.
Stat. 626,) which asjtb this matter was the law of the State in
1789, recognizmg'that persons recoverin, judgments, riay, at
their election, prosecute writs of fieri facias,,elegit, and capiasad
satisfadiendum for taking the goods, lands or body, and prescribing the fofm of a writ of elegit as well as of other writs, it is
not controverted that Seekamp's administrator might in the first

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

409

Snead v. M'Coull et al.
instance have sued out an elegit, and according to the terms and
effect of that writ, have extended a moiety of all the lands of
which M'Coull was seized at the date of the judgment, or at
any time after. But having made his election to take out a ca.
sa. in the first instance, (as he had a right to do both under the
Virginia act and the proviso to the process acts,) and having
pursued the ca. sa., we insist - That the plaintiff has no longer
the capacity to sue out an elegit, and no longer a lien from the
date of his judgment on a moiety of the real estate of M'Coull,
or any part thereof. 3 Bac. Abr. 393, 394, of Lond. ed. of
1832; 2 Wins. Saund. 68 b; Shaw v. Cutteris, Cro: Eliz. 850;
Williams v. Cutteris, Cro. Jac. 136; Id. 143; Foster v. Jackson,
Hob. 59, (which three cases were decided after Blumfield's case,
5 Rep. 174) ; Lord Ellesmere's Observations on Coke, p. 18; Stat.
of 21 Jar.; Burnaby's case, 1 Str. 663; Bx parte Warder, 3
Brown's Ch. Rep.. 191; EBparte Cater, 3 Brown's Ch. Rep. 216 ;
Exparte Knowell, 13 Ves. 193; 5 Hen. Stat. p. 531, sects. 3, 4, 5,
6, 7, 8, 9; Id. p. 539, sects. 27, 28; Willson v. Jackson, 5 Leigb,
102; 8 Hen. Stat. p. 329, sect. 8, 9 ; Bullock v. Irvine's Adm'rs,.
Alunf. 450; Shirley v. Long, 6 Rand. 735; 1 Rev. Code of 1819,
p. 528, sect. 10; Jackson v. Heiskell, 1 Leigh, 257, 260, 261, 275,
276; Foreman v. Loyd, 2 Leigh, 284, 296,298; Beverly v. Brooke,
2 Leigh, 445; 2 Tuck. Com. 345, 358, 373; Rogers, &c. v. Marshall, 4 Leigh, 425, 431, 432, 435; Leake v. Ferguson, 2 Gratt.
4:32; 1 Lomax's Dig. 302; Beers v. Houghton, 9 Peters, 362;
Duncan v. Darst, &c. 1 How. 309; 1 Story's Laws U. S.
716; Bank of U. S. v. Weisiger, 10 Pet. 353; United States
v. Stansbury, &c. 1 Pet. 573; Tayloe v. Thornson, 5 Pet.
367, 368, 369; United States v. Morrison, 4 Pet. 124. Hayling v. Mullhall, 2 W. B1. 1235; Eng. Insolvent Act of 7 Geo.
4, ch. 57, sect. 61, Evans's Stat. p. 193, 11.; Collins v. Benton, 2 Man. & Grang. 861; 40 Eng. Com. Law Rep. 663;
Freeman v. Ruston, 4 Dall. 214, Jackson v. Benedick, 13 Johns.
533.
Mr. Justice DANTEL delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an apr--a from a decree of the Circuit Court of the
United State- from the Eastern District of Virginia, dismissing
the bill of the appellant who was plaintiff in that court.
On the 3d of December, 1814, Seekamp's administrators recovered ajudgment in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Jastern District of Virginia, against Neill M'Coull, for $5,688
damages and costs. In February, 1817, this judgment was
affirmed with costs, and damages at the rate of six per centum, for
which the Circuit Court gave judgment accordingly, in May,
1817 when the mandate was

410

SUPREME COURT.
Snead v. M'Coull et a .

On the judgment a ca. sa. issued the 29th of July, 1817, which
was returned executed upon M'Coull, and a bond taken, with
condition that he should remain within the bounds of the Superior Court of Henrico county. This admission to the jail limits
seems to have been under the act of Congress of January, 6,
1800, (2 Stat. at Large, 4,) expounded in United States v.
Knight, 14 Pet. 316. See 13 Hen. Stat. p. 373, sect. 37, and
1 Rev. Code of 1819, p. 535, sect. 30.
In what way M'Coull got back into the custody of the marshal does not clearly appear; and perhaps it is not material.
He seems while imprisoned to have petitioned to have administered to him the oath prescribed by the act of Congress, for the
relief of persons imprisoned for debt. The oath was administered on the 18th of July, 1821, and M'Coull then discharged
from his imprisonment on this judgment.
Although this proceeding was under the act of Congress,
-which has no provision requiring a conveyance from the debtor,
a deed seems to have been exec.uted by M' Coull, under the idea
that the State law in 1 Rev. Code of 1819, p. 537, was in some
)vay to be applied to the case. The deed is to John Pegram, then
marshal of the Eastern District of Virginia, and conveys to him
and his successors in office, to be disposed of according to law,
such interest as M'Coull, on the day of his discharge, had in any
lands or other property; stating, however, on the face of the
deed, that all the property had theretofore been conveyed by
deeda of record.
It appearm that on the 20th of September, 1812, a tract
of land in Hekrico, known by the name of Marion Hill, was
conveyed by W¥alter Shelton, as commissioner, to M'Coull,
and by M1CoulU to John Parkhill as t.-ustee, to secure the
purchase-money. M'Couil paid to Shelton the money secured
by this deed of trust, but failed to get a deed of release from
Parkhill.
Between June, 1814, and December, 1817, M'Coull sold, and
by deeds.of bargain and sale conveyed, to individuals, certain
lots which were part of the Marion Hill tract.
M'Couil died intestate, leaving a widow, Julia, and five children, to wit: Ann, Charles L.) Mary P.,. Julia L., and John J.,
the three last of whom were infants when this suit was
brought.
On the 19th of February, 1829, by an agreement under seal,
the widow and two eldest children of M'Coull, in consideration
of $1,000, transferred and surrendered to William Selden, a cer.
tain part of the Marion Hill tract; it being agreed that if they
should within six years make to Selden a good title, he should in
addition pay to them, or their order, $20 for each acre to which

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

411

Snead v. M'Coull et al.
such good title should be made, and if within the six years they
should not make him a good title, then they were to surrender

all right of property as well as possession.
On the 14th of September, 1829, a deed of release was made
from Parkhill and Shelton, (the parties to the deed of trust .of
the 20th of September, 1812,) to Selden, which, after reciting
Selden's purchase of part of the Marion Hill tract, (supposed to
be of 100 acres,) and the desire of the widow and heirs that a
deed of release should be executed to Selden for that part, contains a full release of the legal title from Parkhill to Selden.
About 14 years after, AP' Coull was discharged as aul insolvent,
to wit: in May, 1835, Seekamp's administrators filed their original bill, claiming that by their judgment they acquired a lien
upon the lands of M'Coull; alleging that of'the land purchased
from Shelton a considerable portion remained in MI'Coull's
possession unsold at the date of the deed to Pegram, "which by
the provisions of the said deed was subjected to the payment
of the said judgment;" charging that Selden purchased with
knowledge of the said judgment and of the deed to Pegram,
given to secure it; that Selden knowing from the situation of
the affairs of Il' Coull, and the lien of the plaintiffs, that no good
title could be made him by the widow and heirs of M'Coull, did
in fact pay them a very trivial consideration for the said 100
acres, compared with the full value thereof; and claiming" that
they have a valid subsisting lien upon the said 100 acres, and
that the same should be applied in satisfaction of their judgment.
The bill also mentions certain lands sold and conveyed by
Bartlett Still to NI'Coull, states that these lands remained in
'Coull's possession till his death, and claims that they are
liable under the deed to Pegram to satisfy said judgment.
The plaintiffs further claim that they have a right to subject
all the other lands and property conveyed in said deed executed
for their benefit, to the satisfaction of said judgment in whatever hands they may be found, as said deed operated to bind
the property thereby conveyed, from the date of its admission
to record.
The bill makes defendants, the widow, heirs and administrators of M'Coull, William Selden, and Edmund Christian, the
successors (as marshal) of John Pegram, and besides asking certain discoveries, prays the court to decree a sale of the said 100
acres of land conveyed Selden, and the two parcels conveyed by
Stiil to M'Coull, and whatever land or other property, subject
to the debt of Seekamp's administrators, may have descended
or come to the hands of the widow and heirs of M'Coull, and
that so much of the proceeds of said sale as may be necessary

412

SUPREME COURT.
Snead v. M'Coull et al.

to pay off and dischargp said judgment with interest and costs,
may be applied in satisfaction thereof.
Selden alone filed answer. In this answer he insists that by
the deed of September 14, 1829, from Parkhill and others, the
legal title is vested in him, and states, that being aware of
many outstanding incumbrances upon the equitable right, he has
endeavored to take in those incumbrances which gave preferable
liens.
The answer of Selden sets forth amongst other incumbrances
prior in time to the deed to Pegram, one created by a judgment
of Taylor and Hay rendered in their favor in April, 1821, in a
State court of Virginia, against M'Coull, and a ca. sa. levied on
his body the 28th of April, 1821, ufidefwhich he was discharged
the 21st of July, 1821, by taking the oath of an insolvent debtor;
and states that Selden, being advised that this execution of ca.
sa. being levied after the 1st of January, 1820, when the act in
the 1st vol. of Rev. Code of 1819, p. 528, sect. 10, commenced,
bound the real estate of MI'Coull from the time when it was
levied, obtained an assignment of this judgment from the representatives of William Dandridge, for whose benefit the judgment was obtained. This lien being prior to the date of the
deed to Pegram, under which the plaintiffs claim, he insists has
preference over their claim.
He insists that the lien of the plaintiff's judgment was extinguished by the levy of his execution on the body of M'Coull,
and that the plaintiff can have no other lien on the property of
M'Coull, except the deed made to Pegram. That amongst the
deeds made by M'Coull prior to that last mentioned, was one
bearing date on the 26th day of May, 1814, and another on the
2d of January, 1821, for the benefit, amongst others, of the wife
of M'Coull, in consideration of the relinquishment of her dower
in the property of her husband, sold and aliened by him; which
deeds, as Selden claims also under the wddow and heirs of
M'Coull, he insists should enure to his proteetion against the
claim of the plaintiff. After this answer an order was made
June 6, 1836, giving leave to the plaintiff to amend his bill.
Nothing was done under this leave for six years, viz.: until June
9th, 18.42, when a bill of revivor was filed in the name of the
administrator de bonis non, of Seekamp against Charles L.
M'Coull, administrator of Neill T'Coull. By an order made on
the 19th of December, 1843, it is stated that the suit was abated
as to thie widow of ML'Coull, and that the plaintiff had by leave,
on that day filed an amended bill, making defendants, the repre.
sentatives of Dandridge, for whose benefit the judgment in favor
of Taylor and Hay had been rendered and that those representatives had filed their answer.

DECEMBER TERM,

1851.

Snead v. MI'Coull et al.

This answer insists that the lien of the representatives of Dandridge (claiming through Taylor & Hay) is preferable to that
of the plaintiff; that the plaintiff, by taking his ca. sa., released
the lien of his judgment, and can claim only by force of the
surrender made by M'Coull when he took the insolvent oath;
the ca. sa. of Taylor & Hay levied the 28th of April, 1821, constituted (by force of the statute of Virginia) a lien on lands from
the time of levy, which gave their claim a priority over that of
the plaintiff; that moreover, Taylor & Hay (and in their stead
the representatives of Dandridge) have a right to be substituted
for James Carter and John 1WCoull, (sureties for Neill M'Coull
to Taylor & Hay,) for whose benefit there was executed a deed
of the 10th of January, 1821.
The cause was argued at the May Term of 1846, and the
court took time to consider; at the June* rules of the court -in
1848, a notice was issued by Seekamp's administrator, that he
would apply for leave to file an amended and supplemental bill,
which application.being opposed on the part of Selden and of
those who had become some time previously purchasers from
him, the court on the 7th of June, 1849, after hearing the petition and the objections made thereto, refused leave to file the
proposed bill either as an amended or supplemental bill, and
decreed that the bill of the complainants be dismissed with
costs.
The important question upon this record and that upon the
determination of which the decree of the Circuit Court should be
affirmed or reversed, is a question of priority between these parties, growing out of their respective acts and the legal consequences flowing from those acts, with reference to the subject
claimed by them both, as having been once the property of Neill
M'Coull, from whom the rights of both parties are deduced. For
the appellant, it is insisted, that by operation of his judgment in
May, 1817, the levy of his capias ad satisfaciendum on that
judgment in July of the same year, and the discharge from custody of hI'Coull under the insolvent law of the United States,
and his deed at the time of that discharge to Pegram the marshal, there was created a lien in behalf of the appellant on all
the property held by M'Coull, including the land purchased by
the defendant Selden, creating a priority in favor of the appellant which neither the acts nor the rights of Selden, nor of others
deriving title from M'Coull subsequently to the judgment, execution, and deed above mentioned, could divest. On behalf of
Selden and those whom he is intrusted to protect, it is contended, that whatever might have been the capacity of the appellant's
judgment to bind The lands of M'Coull from the date of the
judgment, by a proceeding under it such as would have been
35 "

SUPREME COURT.
Snead v. M'Coull et

1.

proper to maintain and enforce that lien, yet by the election of
the appellant to take the body of M'Coull and to retain him in
custody from 1817 to 18th of July, 1821, the lien of the judgment was released, and quoad all property of the debtor at the
date of the judgment could be revived by one of two events
only, viz., the escape of the debtor from prison, or his death
whilst in custody, the occurrence of neither of which events is
pretended. That the act of Congress under which M' Coull was
discharged as an insolvent debtor, created or preserved no specific lien, and the deed to Pegram could have no such effect, and
conveyed, if any thing, only such interest as M'Coull possessed
at the date of that deed, the deed itself declaring by its terms,
that all the property of M'Coull had been theretofore conveyed
by prior conveyances of record. That by the acquisition of the
legal title to the land in dispute from Parkhill, to whom the legal
title had been conveyed by M'Coull, three years anterior to the
judgment against him by the appellant and the purchase by
Selden, of the widow and heirs of M'CouUl, and the assignment
to him of the lien created by the judgment in favor of Taylor
& Hay, against M'Coull, and the discharge of the latter under
a capias ad satisfaciendum sued on that judgment and executed
on the 28th of April, 1821, previously to the deed to Pegram,
Selden had obtained a complete title to the land in question,
which could not be overreached or affected by the judgment of
the appellant. The truth or the incorrectness of the positions
assumed by these parties respectively, must be settled by a proper construction of the laws of the State within which the land
in dispute is situated, and within which all the proceedings referred to have occurred.
By the decisions of the highest tribunal in Virginia, the law
of that State, prior to the statute of 1819, with respect to the
lien of judgments, has been expounded in very close conformity
with the common and statute law of England, from which it
appears to have been adopted. Thus we find it laid down by
compilers and by commentators upon the l.,v of England, that
the lien of judgments upon lands in that country was created by
the Statute de mercatoribus, also styled the Statute of Acton
Burnell, 11th of Ed. 1st, and by the Statute of Westminster 2d,
13th Edward, 1st Cap. 18, by the latter of which statutes tAe writ
of elegit was given by enacting, that "he who recovereth in debt
or damages, may have either afierifaciascf the chattels of the
debtor,, or a writ on which the sheriff shall deliver to him all the
chattels of the debtor, saving only his oxen and beasts of the
plough, and half of his land, until the debt be levied upon a reasonable price or extent." Vid. Bacon's Abridg. tit. Execution
A, referring to the statutes above mentioned, and citing hobart,
60, and 2 Roll. Abr. 475.

DECEMBER TERM,

1851.

415

Snead v. M'Coull at al.

It is said by Bacon, on the authority of Dalton's Sheriff, 144,
that the statute of 25th Ed. 3 Cap. 17, subjected the person of
the debtor and gave the capias ad satisfaciendum against him in
debt, detinue, &c., in the case of a common person, though by
this same compiler, it is said, that doubts have been suggested
down to a period as late as the time of Lord Mansfield, as to the
mode by which a proceeding existing at common law confessedly in behalf of the king alone, and affecting so gravely the
personal liberty of the subject, had been placed at the discretion
of private persons. Leaving these questions concerning the remote origin of the different modes of final process, as belonging
peculiarly to the province of the antiquary, we proceed so far as
is necessary for the decision of the case before us, to ascertain
the effect of them as settled by judicial interpretation in England, and in the jurisprudence of Virginia, upon which by cns.tom and by statutes they may have been ingrafted. The force
and operation of these different modes of final process in England in reference both to the parties resorting to them and to
those on whom they are brought to bear, will be seen under the
several divisions of the title Execution in the 3d vol. of Bacon.
They have also been traced with his characteristic perspicuity
and method by Mr. Justice Blackstone, from p. 414 to p. 421 of
the 3d vol. of his commentaries, Chap. 26. In 3d Bacon Abr.
Execution D. p. 392, the law is thus stated, "when the plaintiff has judgment he has it in his election to sue out what execution he pleases; but he cannot regularly take out two different executions on the same judgment nor a second of the same
nature unless upon failure of satisfaction of the first. Therefore,
if the plaintiff upon a judgment or recognizance at common law
sues out an elegit, he can have no capias ad satisfaciendurn afterwards to take the body, because he hath determined his choice
by that writ to the goods and chattels and a moiety of the land,
which being entered upon the record, he is thereby estopped, and
though he takes but an acre of land in execution, yet it is held a
satisfaction of the debt, be it never so great, because in time it
may come out." The exceptions to this restriction on: the plaintiff's right to another execution, are the return of Wzhil on the
first, and the return by the sheriff that he hath levied only on
the goods of the defendant; because the plaintiff being entitled
to levy on the land also, should not be precluded from the benefit conferred by the statute. But if the land be delivered, though
of never so little value, that will be a bar, for the sheriff hath
delivered the moiety of the land according to the statute. For
this are cited, Bro. Elegit; 15 Roll Abr. 896; Hob. 57 ; 5 Leon.
87 ; 2 Bulst. 97, and other authorities. In conformity with the
law as just stated, is the doctrine of Mr. Justice Blackstone, who

SUPREME COURT.
Snead v.

'Coull et a!.

concludes his remarks upon this subject in the following words,
vol. 3d, p. 419: " This execution or seizing of lands by elegit is
of so high a ndtare, that after it the body of the defendant cannot be taken, but if execution can only be had of the goods because there are no lands, and such goods are not sufficient to
pay the debt, a capias ad satisfaciendum may then be had after
the elegit, for such elegit is in this case no more than a fieri
facias, so that body and goods may be taken in execution, or
lands and goods; but not body and land tioo, upon any judgment between subject and subject in, the course of the common
law." The origin and effect of the elegit have been thus dilated
upon, as proper to define the foundation and effect of the lien
of a judgment upon lands, to show that it mounts no higher
than the elegit itself, or the capacity of the judgment creditor to
resort to that process, and that where such capacity was wholly
taken away or suspended, the lien was affected in the same degree. With regard to the effect of the capias ad satisfaciendwm
upon the'rights of the parties to a judgment, we are told by
Blackstone, vol. 3d, p. 415, that "the writ of capias ad sa/isfaciendum is an execution of the highest nature, in as much as it
deprives a man of his liberty till lie makes the satisfaction
awarded, and therefore, when a man is once taken in execution
upon this writ, no other process can 'be sued out against his
lands or his goods."
So in 3d Bac. Abr. tit. Execution D. p. 395, it is said: "It was
formerly held, that if a person taken on a capias adsalisfaciendlon
died in execution, the plaintiff had no further remedy, because
he had determined the choice by this kind of execution, which,
affecting a man's liberty, is esteemed the highest and most rigid
in the law, and for this are cited Foster v. Jackson, Hob. 52;
Williams v. Critteris Cro. Jac. 136; and Rolt Abr. 903; and it
has been ruled that if the plaintiff consent to the defendant
being discharged out of execution upon an agreement, he cannot afterwards retake him, although the security given by the
lefendant on his discharge should afterwards be set aside; vid.
I Burr. 2482; 1 T. R. 557; 2 East, 243. And as late as
1806 the following language is held by the Lord thancellor in
the case. ex parte Knownell, 13 Veir. 193. " Considering the
oankruptcy out of the case, it is clear that by the taking the
body in execution the debt is satisfied to all intents and purposes.
If the debtor being in execution becomes a bankrupt, the creditor, in reason and justice, must have a right to elect; not having contemplated that event, which deprives him of the fruit of
his execution. But when the commission has previously issued,
and the creditor-therefore takes his execution, apprised of the
disposition to be made of the effects, and that there may be a

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

417

Snead v. M'Coull et al.

certificate and has his choice, that step upon the same reason
must be an election, and the debt is satisfied, whether by payment or by having the body in execution is not material." The
only known exceptions to the effect of the capias ad satisfaciendzao executed are, 1st, the provision of the statute of 21st Jac.,
1st. Cap. 24, that if the defendant shall die while charged in execution, the plaintiff may, after his death, sue out a new execution against his land, goods, or chattels; and the instances of
an escape or rescue of the party taken in execution; in which
two last instances it has been ruled, that although the sheriff is
thereby liable because he ought to have taken the posse comitatus, yet the plaintiff may take out any new execution, and shall
not be compelled to take his remedy against the sheriff, who
may be dead or insolvent.
From this view of the law, as ruled by the English courts, the
follow.ing points may-be considered as conclusively ruled in that
country: 1st. That the lien of the judgment results entirely fom
the plaintiff to elect to charge the goods and the moiety of the
lards of the debtor. 2d. That the election so to charge them by
an eogit executed, discharges from liability the body of the defendant and the remaining moiety of the lands. 3d. That the
capias ad satisfacienditn executed, is pro taizto a satisfaction of
the judgment, which releases proprio vigore any previous lien
upon the lands, and inhibits all recourse against the goods and
chattels or lands of the debtor, with, the exceptions of the instances of death, whilst charged in execution, or of an escape
from prison, or a rescue.
Recurring now to the laws of Virginia, upon these same subjects, we find as early as the year 1748 (22 George II.) the
statute of the colonial legislature beginning with the following
preamble: "Whereas by the common law of England and divers acts of Parliament, which are binding upon the subjects of
this colony, all persons recovering any debt, damages or costs,
by the judgment of any court of record, may, at their election,
prosecute writs offieri facias,elegit, and capias adsatisfaciendum
within the year, for the taking of the goods, lands, or body of
persons against whom such judgment is obtained, to the end the
said several writs issuing out of any of the courts of record within this dominion, and the manner of executing and returning the
same may be uniform, and the mischiefs arising from incorrect
forms and isufficient returns of such writs prevented, Be it
enacted, &c." The first thing which strikes the attention in
reading this preamble is not only its explicit recognition of the
common law and statutes of the mother country, with respect to the
binding force and operation of judgments, but also of the modes,
and the effect of those modes, as they were known in the mother

SUPREME COURT.
Snead v.

M'Coull et al.

country, to be carried into operation. Thtis it is declared that
there shall be a fieri facias for taking the goods-an elegit for
taking the lands, and a capias ad satisfaciendum for taking the
body of any person against whom such judgment is obtained.
Not only are these forms of proceedings adopted with the import which their mere terms might convey, but they are adopted
with direct reference to the common law.and statutes of England,
(and of course to the judicial interpretations of the law) as decisive of their operation and effect. The statute then proceeds
to prescribe the forms of these several writs, and the returns to
be made upon them, following, it is believed, literally, the forms
in the courts of law in England, with such exceptions only as
-the difference in situation and the style of the courts rendered
indispensable; and in the 3d and 4th sections enacts the provisions contained in the stat. of the 21st of James I., Cap. 24th,
authorizing the renewal of execution against the lands and goods
of a debtor dying in execution; and protecting the title of purchasers from the prisoner to lands bond fide sold by him for the
payment of any of his creditors, at whose suit he shall have been
in executio), and the money paid or secured, to be paid to such
creditors with their privity in discharge of his debts, or some
portion thereof. The construction of this statute, which, up to
the revisal of the laws of Virginia made in 1819, and going into
effect in 1820, controlled the question of judgment lien, and the
rights of purchasers from a debtor in execution is understood
to be definitively settled, and to have established the rules
in the State in conformity with the doctrine of the English
courts, that the lien of a judgment depends entirely on the right
or capacity of the plaintiff to sue out an eleg-it, and that.by
electing a capias ad satisfaciendum, the lien of the judgment is
so far destr6yed as to be inoperative, except in the instances of
death in execution, and of an escape. Indeed, the provision in
the statute of 21st James I., and in the Virginia act of 1748,
which protect bond fide sales by debtors in execution, are wholly
inconsistent with the idea of a continuatioa of a judgment lien
during the operation of a capias ad satisfaciendurn executed, for
the lien of a judgment, is a legal lien commencing and coeval
with the judgment itself, and unless released by charging the
debtor in execution, would by its own force and effect go back
to the date of the judgment, and override all mesne alienations
or rights of every description. But this part of the Virginia statute of 1748 has been clearly expounded by the Supreme Court
of Virginia, in the case of Bullock v. Irfine's administrators,
reported in 4 Munford, 450, which was a suit brought to vacate
a sale made by a debtor in execution to one of his creditors, and
which sale the Chancellor had decreed to be void as to creditors

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

419

Snead v. M'Coull et al.

under the laws of the State concerning executions. The Supreme Court, in reversing the decree of the Chancellor, uses this
language: " That instead of the decree rendered by the Chancellor in this case, he ought to have directed an issue, to try
what was the amount of the consideration which passed from
the said Hannah Bullock to James Bailey (the debtor in execution) for the land in question, and whether there was any secret
agreement or understanding between the said parties, that the
said land was to be holden by the former for the use and benefit
of the latter. The court is further of opinion, that if it shall
turn out upon the issue aforesaid, that a reasonable consideration did pass as aforesaid, and that there was no such secret
agreement or understanding, that then and in that case the bill
of the appellees should be dismissed, the transaction in that view
being only the preference of one bondfide creditor over another."
Thus it is seen that the bonafides of the transaction, and not
the quality or extent of the legal lien, determined the validity of
the transaction, for the existence of such a lien would have deprived the debtor of all power of alienation.
In the revisal of the laws of Virginia, made in the year 1819,
(going into operation in the year 1820) a provision was introduced by the tenth section of the law concerning executions,
declaring that every sale, conveyance, and transfer of any lands
or terfements made by any person charged in execution for any
debt or damages, shall be absolutely null and void, as to the
creditor at whose suit he is so charged in execution, unless such
sale, transfer, and conveyance be absolute and bond fide, and be
made for the payment of the debt and damages due to such
creditor or creditors; and that all executions of capias ad satisfaciendum, levied after the commencement of this act, shall bind
the real estate of the defendant from the time when they shall
be levied. It has been insisted, that this execution-lien, given
by the 10th section of the act of February, 1819, so attaches
upon the lands and tenements of the debtor, as to cut out all
junior incumbrances by judgment, whilst the debtor remains in
execution, although the regular proceedings be had upon such
junior judgments to enforce the lien created by them (as judgments) upon the lands of the debtor. The first interpretation
given to the 10th section of the statute of 1819, by the Supreme
Court of Virginia, was in accordance with the position just
mentioned, as will be seen by'the case of Jackson v. Heiskill,
1 Leigh, 257. But the case of Jackson v. Heiskill having been
decided by a bare quorum of the court, and by a bare majority
of that quoruom, the question so determined was reconsidered by
a full court, in the case of Foreman v. Loyd, &c., reported in 2
.Leigh, 284; and by the court, with the exception of one judge,

SUPREME
Snead v.

COURT.

M'Coull et al.

the case of Jackson v. Heiskill was overruled, and the following
interpretation given to the 10th section of the statute of 1819,
and to the execution-lien created thereby, namely: That, where
several creditors recover judgment and ,ue out writs of capias
ad satisfaciendum against the debtor, up:on which he is taken
and charged in execution; and then another creditor recovers
judgment against the same debtor, and sues out an eleg-it on
which his lands are extended, and a moiety of them delivered,
and then the debtor is regularly discharged from the writs of
capias ad satisfacie wdum as an insolvent debtor puffing into his
schedule the whole of his lands which had been extended under
the elegit, the lien of the writs of capias ad satisfaciendurn does
not overreach and avoid the extent under the elen t. The case
of Rogers v. Marshall, 4 Leigh, is perhaps a still stronger illustration of the extent to which the execution-lien may be affected
by a junior incumbrance; as in this last case there was no intervention of a judgment, or of legal process, to operate against
the execution-lien; but, in this instance, between the period of
the judgment rendered and the capias ad satisfaciendum executed, sundry mortgages were made by the debtor to secure
debts to other creditors. It was held that, by the actual service
of the capias ad satisfaciendum on the debtor, the lien of the
judgment was destroyed, that the creditor could only stand on
the lien gven in the capias executed by the statute of 1819, sect.
10, and that, therefore, the mortgagees were entitled to precedence. The same doctrine is affirmed in the case of Leake v.
Ferguson, as late as 1846, and reported in 2 Grattan, 419.
Upon the review here taken of the decisions of the courts in
England upon the subject of judgment-lien, and of the interpretation put by the Supreme Court of Virginia upon the statutes
of that State of 1748, reenacted in the revisals of 1794 and
1803, and of 1819, we are brought necessarily to the following
inquiries: 1st. What lien was ever possessed by the appellant
and those he represents upon the lands of M'Coull? And 2d.
In what way has such lien been affected by the acts of appellant? It is certain that, on the 22d May, 1817, the appellant
held a lien by judgment upon all the lands, tenements, and hereditaments of M'Coull; but it is equally certain that, by levying
a capias ad satisfaciendum upon the body of MICoull, in July,
1817, he released the judgment-lien upon' such lands and tenements, according to the interpretation given of the statute of
1748, and also by that placed upon the statute of 1819, sect. 10.
That the lien surrendered by the service of the capias ad satisfaciendum was never revived by the force of the former statute,
inasmuch as there was neither -an escape nor a dying in custody; and that no execution-lien was created by the service of

DECEMBER TERM,

1851.

421

Snead v. M'Coull et al.

a capias ad satisfaciendurn, and the admission of MI'Coull, to
the oath of an insolvent debtor, in virtue of the 10th section of
the act of 1819, as that section, by express language, applies
only to executions levied after the commencement of the act
of 1819, and AI'Coull was already in custody under an execution levied in July, 1817, more than two years anterior to the
passage of that act, and under process sued out under the statute
of 1748, continued in the revisals of 1794 and 1803. IA truth, the
oath of insolvency administered to M' Coull was not in virtue
of either of the State laws above referred to, but under the act
of Congress of the 6th of February, 1800, which oath of insolvency created no specific lien in favor of the appellant, and the
deed to the marshal, which was neither ordered nor required by
the act of Congress, could create no such specific or exclusive
lien, and upon its face it purports to create none; but, on the contrary, recites that all the property of M'Coull had been conveyed
by deeds previously made and recorded. The only lien by execution upon the lands of II' Coull, in virtue of the statute of 1819,
sect. 10, disclosed by the record, is that of Taylor and Hay, arising
from a judgment rendered in a State court of Virginia against
Neil IM'Coull, in April, 1821, and that lien, whatever its effect
may be, must enure to the benefit of Selden, who holds an
assignment of the judgment against MI'Coull from the beneficiaries thereof, it being prior in date to the deed of Pegram.
The lien which once exisfed, in virtue of the appellant's judgrent, having been extinguished by the levy of the capias ad
sati.!faciendem upon the body of M'Coull, and there being no
revival thereof by any of the causes known to the law, we are
unable fo perceive why Selden, who was a purchaser from the
widow and heirs of P'Coull, might not fairly and properly obtain the legal title from Parkhill, in whom that title was vested,
or get in the lien of the execution existing in favor of Hay and
Taylor. By doing so, he invaded no right of the plaintiff, who
had relinquished his judgment-lien, and had acquired no other
under the deed to Pegram, which professes to convey to him
none, and to which he was no party. Selden, having paid his
money, committed no wrong on the plaintiff by drawing to
himself the elder legal title outstanding in Parkhill, and by fortifying it by the execution-lien of Taylor and Hay, which clearly
had precedence of the plaintiff.
After this cause had been heard in argument and taken under
advisement by the Circuit Court, the plaintiff petitioned that
court to permit him to file a farther bill, by way of amendment
and supplement to the original bill and bill of revivor previously
filed in the cause; and, after being heard by counsel upon his
petition, the court refused to grant the 'prayer thereof, on the
VOL. XIi.

36

SUPREE
Snead v.

COURT.

M'Coull et al.

grounds that the application was made at too late a period, and
that the changes proposed by the plaintiff in the character of
the cause would have been in reality the presenting of an entirely new case, rather than an amendment of the original bill.
This refusal of the Circuit Court we hold to have been sound
in principle; and it is sustained by the express language and
authority of this court, in the case of Walden et al. v. Bodley
et al., which declares that, although "there are cases where
amendments may be permitted at any stage of the proceedings
in the cause, as where an essential party has been omitted; yet
amendments which change the character of the bill or answer,
so as to make substantially a new case, should rarely, if ever, be
admitted after the cause is set for hearing, much less after it has
been heard." Vid. 14 Peters, 156. Moreover, a fact which imparts greater force to the refusal of the Circuit Court to permit
amendment at so late a stage of the proceedings is this, that
the application to that court appears to have been accompanied
with no evidence, and not even by an affidavit, to show that the
amendments desired could not have been made portions of the
original bill; on the contrary, it is manifest, that they might
have formed a part of the case as originally presented to the
Circuit Court, if at any time it were proper to incorporate them
with the subject-matter, and with the objects proposed by the
original bill. The prayer of the original bill was limited to the
enforcement of an alleged judgment-lien upon specific property
purchased by the defendant, Selden, and to recourse against the
heirs and widow of M'Coull, of whom Selden had purchased;
the proposed change, by way of amendment and supplement, is
a general bill for discovery and relief against all persons alleged
or supposed to have been purchasers or grantees from lW'Coull,
and for satisfaction out of the property purchased by him, or to
which he had title at the date of the original judgment in favor
of Seekamp. Such an essential change in the character and
objects of the cause, proposed, too, after a hearing, and when it
was manifest that the object of the original bill, namely, -the
lien of the judgment, no longer existed, could not have been
accorded to the plaintiff by any sound rule of practice. On
either aspect of his case, as presented by the appellant, we think
that he established no ground for equitable interposition in the
Circuit Court, and approving the decree of that court dismissing the bill of the appellant, we hereby order that the same be
affirmed.

Order.
This cause came on to be heard on thetranscript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United Stetes for the Eastern

DECEMtBER TERM, 1851.

423

Linton et al. v. Stanton.

District of Virginia, and was aigued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court,
that the judgment of the Circuit Court in this cause be, and
the same is hereby, affirmed, with costs.

DUNCAN LINTON, CHARLOTTE LINTON AND HER HUSBAND, FRANCIS SURGETTE, STEPHEN DUNCAN GUARDIAN OF MARY LINTON

AND JOHN LINTON MINORS, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, v. FREDERICK, STANTON.

Where the highest court of a State decided in favor of a defendant who pleaded his
discharge under the bankrupt law of the United States, and the case was brought
to this court under the 25th section of the Judiciary Act, this court has no jurisdiction.

It would have been otherwise if the decision had been adverse to the exemptiop
claimed under the law of Congiess.
Promises alleged to have been made by the bankrupt after his discharge are not th,
subject of jurisdiction under the 25th section. The decision of a State court upon
their effect cannot be reviewed by this court.

THIS case was brought up from the Supreme Court of the
State of Louisiana for the Eastern District, by a writ of error
issued under the-25th section of the Judiciary Act.
The plaintiffs in error, on the 19th June, 1848, filed their petition in the Third District Court of New Orleans, stating themselves to be residents of Mississippi, and the only heirs and representatives of John Linton, deceased, and as such in possession
of his property.
That on,the 13th May, 1839, the defendant, Stanton, owed the
estate of John, Linton, then deceased, the sum of $11,446.60,
and on that date executed his two promissory notes in favor of
Stephen Duncan, (one of the petitioners, and administrator to
Linton,) one for $5,856.40, due the 1st April, 1841, the other
for $5,590.20, payable the 1st April, 1842.
The petitioners further state, that on the 25th August, 1842,
and also on the 25th December, 1843, the defendant promised
to pay each of these notes, but has neglected and refused to do
so, and that the debt still remains due and unpaid.
The two notes, they state, were made and fell due in the
State of Mississippi, where fhe legal interest on all debts due
and unpaid, is 8 per cent. That the defendant lives in Mississippi, but was then in New Orleans.
They pray judgment against him for the amounts of the notes,
with interest from 13th May, 1839, till paid, and for general
relief.

