HE DECISIONS
OR THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
AT

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.
THE PRESIDENT, DIRECTORS, AND COMlPANY OF THE MINERS' BANK

OF

DUBUQUE, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. THE STATE OF IOWA,

ON THE RELATION OF THE DISTRICT PROSECUTING ATTORNEY.

Where a bank was chartered and its charter repealed by the legislature of a Territor, the question of the validity of the repealing act vannot be brought before
thi; court under the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act.
The power of review is conflned by that section to certain laws passed by States,
and does not extend to those passed by territorial Legislatures.
THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Supreme
Court for the Second Judicial District of the State of Iowa.
Proceedings were commenced when Iowa was a Territory, but
in the progress of the cause she was admitted as a State. The
pleadings set forth the facts of the case.
At the November term, 1845, of the District Court of Dubuque
county, in the Territory of Iowa, the District Attorney of the
United States filed the following information:

James Grant, district prosecutor of the third Judicial District,
who prosecutes for the United States, on leave granted, comes
into said District Court of Dubuque county, at the court-house
in Dubuque county, on the first Monday in November, in the
year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred,and forty-five, and
for said United States gives the court to be informed and understand, that John Wharton, Patrick Quigley, Robert Waller,
John Thompson, Peter Waples, Jesse P. Farley, and Timothy
Davis-, for the space of two months last past, and since, have
had and still use, without any legal authority, the liabilitiesr and
franchises of President, Directors, and Company of the Miners'
Bank of Dubuque, and discount bills, loan money, buy and sell
bills of exchange, and do all such other acts and things as bodies
corporate for banking usually do.
All which privileges, liabilities, and franchises, the said defendVOL. XII.

I

2

SUPREME
Miners' Bank v.

COURT.
State of Iowa.

ants have usurped, and still do usurp, upon said United States,
to the great damage and prejudice thereof.
Whereupon the said attorney prays the aid of this court in
the premises, and due process of law against said defendants,
to answer to said United States by what warrants they claim to
have and enjoy the liabilities, privileges, and franchises aforesaid.
JAMES GRANT,

Dist. rros.

Whereupon the attorney for the Bank filed the following plea,
Viz.:
And the said John Wharton, Patrick Quig]ey, Robert Waller,
John Thompson, Peter Waples, Jesse P. Farley, and Timothy
Davis, President, Directors, and Co. &c.
As to the said liabilities, franchises, and privileges, of the
said President, Directors, and Company, of the Miners' Bank of
Dubuquie, say that, by an act of the Legislature of Wisconsin,
approved on the thirtieth day of November, in the year of Our
Lord one thousand eight hundred and thity-six, which act, with
alterations, was approved by Congress on the third'day of March,
in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and thirtyseven, said ?resident, Directors, and Company were duly incor.porated as a company or body politic and corporate, with the
privileges, liabilities, and franchises aforesaid; that by an act
of Congress in session on the 12th day of June, in the year of
our Lord one thousand eight hundred andthirty-eight, the Territory of Wisconsin was divided, and the Territory of Iowa formed
therefrom; and by this warrant the said defendants have, and
during the time in said information mentioned, and still use the
liabilities, privileges, and franchises, as they well might, and
still may; without this, that said defendants have usurped, or
do now usurp, said liabilities, franchises, and privileges, in
manner and form as by said information is supposed; all which
the said defendants are ready to verify; and wherefore they
pray judgment, and that said liberties, franchises, and privileges, above by them claimed, may be allowed and adjudged
them, and that they may be herein dismissed, &c.
DAvis, Att'yfoi Bank.
The replication of the plaintiff was as follows And the said plaintiffs, for replication to said plea of said defendants, say, that the act of the Legislature of Wisconsin, by
which said defendants claim the liberties, franchises, and privileges
aforesaid, by an act of the Legislature of Iowa Territory, within
wtiose jurisdiction the said corporate body existed, after'the division of the Territory of Wisconsin, in force the twenty-first day of
May, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and forty
five, the said liabilities, privileges, and franchises, was repealed,

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

8

Miners' Bank v. State of Iowa.

disallowed, and declared for naught; and this he is ready to
verify; wherefore he prays judgment, &c.
JAmis GRANT, Dist. Pros.
The defendants rejoined, but afterwards had leave to file the
following amended rejoinder:The said defendants, as to the said replication of the said
plaintiffs to the plea of defendants, say, that they ought not to
be barred of the franchises, liberties, and privileges, secured to
them by their aforesaid charter, because they say that the act of
the said Legislature of Iowa aforesaid, whereby it is supposed
the said charter was repealed, was passed without the said corporati6n (defendants) having first failed to go into operation,
and without having abused or misused its privileges; and this
they are ready to verify.
DAvIS & SAIITn, Att'ysfor Defendants.
To this rejoinder the plaintiff demurred, and the, defendants
joined in demurrer.
At December term,1847, the District Court gave the following
judgment:Thereupon the demurrer is sustained by the court, with leave
to the said defendants to answer over, but said defendants elect
to abide by their aforesaid' amended rejoinder; and it being
adjudged by the court now here, that the information filed in
this case, and the matters and things therein charged are true,
it is therefore ordered, adjudged, and decreed, that the said
defendants, and all others acting by, through, or under them, be
ousted, and altogether and forever excluded from .all such corporate rights, privileges, and franchises, of the President,
Directors, and Company of the Miners' Bank of Dubuque; that
the corporation of said President, Directors, and Company be
dissolved, and that the plaintiffs have and recover of and from
the said defendants their costs about their suit in this behalf
expended, and that they have execution therefor.
The Bank appealed to the Supreme Court of Iowa, which
affirmed the judgment of the District Court; and a writ of error
brought the case up to this court.
It was argued by Ar. Lawrence, for the plaintiff in error, who
said that the principal question in the case was whether the.
legislature could repeal the charter of the Bank without evidence of misuse or abuse of its corporate privileges. His
argument on this point need not be statedias the case went off
upon a question of jurisdiction.

4

SUPREME
Miner s ' Bank

v.

COURT.
State of Iowa.

Mr. Justice DANIEL delivered the opinion of the court.
By a statute approved on the 20th of April, 1836. Congress,
within the boundaries designated by that statute, established
the territorial government of Wisconsin, (vid. 5 Stat. at Large,
10 to 16); and by a subsequent law, approved June the
12th, 1838, Congress divided the Territory of Wisconsin, and
established over what had formed a portion of that territory, the
territorial government of Iowa, (vid. 5 Stat. at Large, 235 to 241.)
On the 3d of March, 1845, the Territory of Iowa was admitted
into the Union, as one of the States of this confederacy, (vid.
5 Stat. at Large, 742,) and on the 3d day of March, 1847, the
like admission was exended- to the Territqry of Wisconsin.
Vid. 9 Stat at Large, 178. By what may be termed the
organic laws creating the governments of both the territories
above-mentioned, it will be seen, that those governments.were
vested with general legislative power; and were subjected to no
enumerated or specific limitations of that general power, save in
certain exceptions applicable to the lands or other property of the
United States, and to the right on the palt of those governments,
in exercising the power of taxation, to discriminate between the
property of residents and non-residents. The language of the
provisions, here referred to is identical in the laws establishing
each of these territories, and is in the following words: "That
the legislative power of the Territory shal extend to all rightful
subjects of legislatfon, but no law shall be passed interfering
with the primary disposal of the soil, no tax shall be imposed
upon the property of the United States, nor shall the lands or
other property of non-residents be iaxed higher than the lands
of residents." Each of those provisions contains the following
declaration: "All laws of the governor and legislative assembly shall be submitted to, and if disapproved by the Congress of
the United States, the same shall be null and of no effect." Vid.
5 Stat at Large, p. 13, and ib. p. 237, sec. 6.
By a law of the territorial Legislature of Wisconsin, approved
on the 30th of November, 1836, the plaintiffs in error were created
a corporation by the style of the Miners' Bank of Dubuque, to
continue until the 1st day of May 1851. Vid. acts of Legislature
of Wisconsin of 1836, p. 18i No. 7. By an act -of Congress,
approved on the 3d of March, 1837, (5 Stat. at Large, 198,)
the charter granted by the Legislature of Wisconsin was
disapproved and annulled in certain particulars; but allowed
and leftin force as to the provisions-not thus vacated, and contained, amongst other provisions, (section 23') the following:
" That this act be and the same is hereby declared to lie a public ac% and thatthe samne be for the time before limited, construed in all courts and places benignly, and favorably, for every

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.
Miners' Bank v. State of Iowa.

beneficial purpose therein mentioned. Provided, that if such
corporation shall fail to go into operation, or shall abuse or
misuse their privileges under this charter, it shall he in the
power of the legislative assembly of this Territory at any
time to annul, vacate, and make void this charter." ' After the
separation of Iowa from Wisconsin, the Legislature of the former Territory, (the Bank of Dubuque being situated within the
government thereof,) by an act of the 21st of May, 1846, repealed
the act of incorporation of the _Miners' Bank; directed, under
the supervision of the court of the District, the settlement by
trustees of the affairs of that corporation, and the distribution
of its assets amongst the creditors and stockholders thereof. Vid.
Laws of Iowa Ter. c. 31. In pursuance of this law, the prosecuting attorney for the Territory, on the 10th of August, 1846
filed an information in the nature of a writ of quo warra/zto
against the President, Directors, and Company of the Bank of Dubuque, as usurpers, upon the authority of the United States, of the
privileges and franchises of a banking corporation. To this information the plaintiffs pleaded the act of incorporation by the
Legislature of Wisconsin, as altered by the *actof Congress, and
the division of the Territory of Wisconsin, and the creation of
the government of Iowa, in justification of their corporate rights.
To this plea, it is replied for the United States, that the Act of
the Legislature of Wisconsin, by which the defendants were
incorporated, had, after the separation of the territories, been repealed by an act of the Legislature of Iowa, within whose jurisdiction the corporation existed. The plaintiffs in error (the defendants below) rejoined, that the repealing act of the Legislature
of Iowa had been passed without the said corporation having
failed to go into operation, and without having misused or
abused its privileges. On behalf of the United States there
vas a demurrer to this rejoinder, and in the mean time the TerriLory of Iowa having become a State, this case was tried before
the Supreme Court for the Second Judicial District of the State,
oy which tribunal the demurrer was sustained, and judgtnent of
ouster pronounced against the Bank.
By the plaintiffs in error it is insisted, that the averments in
their rejoinder being admitted by the demurrer, it follows ex consequenti, that the repealing law of the Territory of Iowa was
unconstitutional, as a law arbitrarily abrogating.the charter of
the Bank, and therefore a law imtpairingthe obligation of a con.
tract. In reviewing this case thus made, this court do not
consider themselves called upon to test either the power of the
government of Iowa for the enactifent of the statute conplained of, the coincidence or incompatibility of that statute
with the 10th section of the fixst article of the Constitution, o;
I1*

8

SUPREME COURT.
Minors' Bank v. State of Iowa.

regularity of the proceedings in the court below. At the
threshold of their examination of this case, they are met by an
inquiry far more important and controlling than either of these,
viz., an inquiry into their own authority to effect, under any
aspect under which this case is presented to them, the result
which is sought at their hands? Whatever authority there
exists in this court to reexamine and reverse the judgments
or decrees of the courts, not those regularly appertaining to the
organized judicial system of the United States, such authority
must be traced to the 25th section of the law establishing the
"Judicial Courts of the United States," by which section alone
the power of this court for the purposes above stated was created and is clearly defined. By recurrence to that section it will
be perceived, in order to give the corrective power to this tribunal, that, by the decision of the State court, there must have
been "drawn in question, the validity of a statute or an authority exercised under the United States, and the decision be
against their validity;" or it must be "where is drawn in question the validity or statute of, or an authority exercised under
ang tate, on the ground of their being repugnant to the Constitution, treaties, or laws of the United States, and the decision is in favor of such their validity; or where is drawn in
question the construction of any clause of the Constitution, or
of a treaty. or statute of, or commission held under the United
States, and the decision is against the title, right, privilege, or
exemption, specially set up or claimed under such clause of the
Constitution, treaty, statute, or commission." By a comparison of the record before us with the section of the Judiciary
Act aboxe quoted, we think it nowhere apparent, that there has
been, by the decision of the Court of Iowa, drawn in question
the validity of a treaty or statute of, or an authority exercised
under the United State much less that there has been a decision against the validity of either; or that there has been drawn
in question the validity of a statute of, or an authority e-.,er.
cised under any State, on the ground of its being repugnant to
the Constitution, treaties, or laws of the United States, or the
construction of any clause of the Constitution, or of any treaty
or statute of or commission held under the United States, and a
decision adverse to the validity of the latter. And it may be
observed, that every, requisite to form a ground of jurisdiction
enumerated in each of the predicaments comprised in the statute, must combine in orciei to give to this court the power
invoked by the plaintiffs in error. The alleged wrong which
the court are called on to redress, is not an act of State power
at all; it is an act of the territorialgovernment of Iowa, by
which was repealed an act of the preceding territorial govern-

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.
Minera' Bank v. State of Iowa.

Inent of Wisconsin; consequently the decision of the court
below asserted no State act or power in opposition to the Constitution, treaties, or laws, or to a commission or authority of, or
under the United States, and presents therefore no ground of
jurisdiction here, either as derived from the language of the
statute, or from any construction heretofore given of it. If the
quiestion whether a writ of error would lie from this court to
review the acts of the territorial governments could ever have
been regarded as in any sense equivocal upon the language of the
25th section of the Judiciary Act, such a question could not now
be considered as open, under the express adjudications previously
ruled by this court. Thus in the case of Scott v. Jones, 5 Howard, p. 343, it was expressly declared,-" That an objection to
the validity of a statute on the ground that the legislature
which passed it were not competent or duly',rganized, under
the acts of Congress and the Constitution, so as to pass valid
statutes, is not within the cases enumerated in the 25th section of the Judiciary Act, and therefore this court has no
jurisdiction over the subject. That in order to give this court
jurisdiction, the statute, the validity of which is drawn in question, must be passed by a State a member of the Union, and
a public body owing obedience and conformity to its Constitution and laws. That if public bodies, not duly admitted into
the Union, undertake as States, to pass laws which might
encroach on the Union or its granted powers, such conduct
would have to be reached either by the power of the Union
to put down insurrection, or by the ordinary penal laws of the
States or Territories within which these bodies are situated and
acting: but their measures are not examinable by this court
upon a writ of error. They are not States, and cannot pass
statutes within the meaning of the Judiciary acts." Other
cases cited by the court, in the opinion just quoted, might be
adduced to show the difference ever taken by the court in reference to its relation to the States as States, and as contvidistinguished from the Territories of the United States. R seems
to us, that the control of these territorial governments properly
appertains to that branch of-the government which creates and
can change or modify them to meet its views of public policy,.
viz.: the Congress of the United States. That control certainly
has not been vested in this court, either inmode or in substance,
by the 25th section of the Judiciary Act.
It has been argued in this case, that as Congress, in creating
the territorial governments of Wisconsin and Iowa, reserved to
themselves the power of disapproving and thereby annulling the
acts of those governments, and had, in the exercise of that
power, stricken out several of the provisions of the charter of

8

SUPREME COURT.
Miners' Bank v. State of Iowa.

the Bank of Dubuque, enacted by the Legislature of Wisconsin, assenting to the residue; that therefore the charter of this
Bank should be regarded as an act of Congress, rather than of the
territorial go-ernment; and consequently the decision of the State
court, in favor of the repealing law of Iowa, must be held to be
one in which was drawn in question and overruled the validity of
a statute of or an authority exercised under the United States,
and as a decision also against a right, title, or privilege set up
under a statute of the United States. The fallacy of this argument is easily detected. Congress, in creating the territorial
governments, and in conferring upon them powers of general
legislation, did not, from obvious principles of policy and necessity, ordain a suspension of all acts proceeding from those
powers, until expressly sanctioned by themselves, whilst for considerations equally strong they reserved the power of disapproving or annulling such acts of territorial legislation as might be
deemed detrimental. A different system of procedure would
however
for; nay,
those territories,
improvement
all practical
might havein
fatal to called
have beenurgently
disarmed
them of
the very power of self-preservation. An invasion, or insurrection,
or
anyhad
other
crisis demanding
the most orstrenuous action, would
have
to remain
without preventive
remedy, till Congress,
if not in session, could be convened, or when in session, must
have awaited its possibly procrastinated aid.
The argunt would ennder also the acts of the territorial
governments, even the most wholesome and necessary, and
though indispensably carried to the extreme of authority, obfoxious to the thage of usurpation or criminality. The revere of
this argurment, whist it is accordant with the investiture of general
legislative power in the territorial governments, places them in
the position of usefulness and advantage towards those they
were bound to foster, and subjects the atthe a e time to
proper restraints from their superior. The charter of the Bank
of
enacted in
its details and powers ever possessed
by Dubuque
it, (and according
to all
which
it .was in fact organized,) by the
Legislature of Wisconsin, muast be looked upon a The creture
of that legislature. To regard it, as we are urged to do b the
argument for the plaintiff in error, would constitute it rather a
Bank of the United States, situated without the United States,
and operating within the Territory of Wisconsin, now the Stat
of Iowa, independently- of the power or
policy
voeal of that
State, and beyond the each of its faculties or obligations to b
exerted for it own citizens. We think that the positions, urged
for the plaintiff in error, leave the objectitus to the jurisdiction
as above stated, in their full force. We regard both the charter
granted by Wisconsin, ano he repeal of that charter by Iowa,

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

9

Binns et al. v. Lawrence.

alike as acts of the territorial authorities, and not as the acts of
any State of this Union; and that as such, this court has no
power, by writ of error, to take cognizance of them in virtue of,
and for the objects designated by, the 25th section of theJudiciary Act.
We therefore adjudge that the writ of error in this case be
dismissed for want of jurisdiction.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Supreme Court for the Second Judicial District of
the State of Iowa, and was argued by counsel.-: on consideration
whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court that
this cause be and the same is hereby dismissed for the want of
jurisdiction.

WILLIAx BINNS AND C. STOCKTON HALSTEAD,
CORNELIUS W. LAwRENcE.

PLAINTIFFS, V.

The Tariff Act, passed in 1846, (9 Stat. at Large, p. 44,) enacted duties on glass, as
follow.', viz.
"Sehtldule B. Forty per centum ad valorem, Glass cut.
"Schedule C. Thirty per centum ad valorem, Glass tumblers, plain, moulded, or
"pressed; not cut or punted."
The foifowing classes of tumblers fall within Schedule B, and are chargeable with a
duty of forty per centum, viz.
1. Glass tumblers, the entire surface of the bottom of which had been smuothed by the
.glasseutter or grinder, previous to their importation into the United States.
2. Glass tumblers, on the sides of which ornamental figures had been engraved by the
glasseutter or engraver, previous to their importation into the United States.

Tins cause was brought up from the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Southern District of New York, on a certificate of division" in opinion between the judges thereof.
It was an action brought up by the plaintiffs against the Collector of New York for the return of certain duties, paid under
protest, and charged to have been illegally exacted upon the
importation of glass tumblers.
The tariff of 3d August, 1846, (9 Stat. at Large, pp. 44
45, chap. 74,) enacted duties on glass, as follows, viz.:
" Schedule B. Forty per centum ad valorem.
" Glass cut.
" Schedule C. Thirty per centum ad valorem.

