S1P REXE COURT.

H

Thredgill v. Pintard.

JOSEPH

P.

THREDGILL, ADIINISTRATOR OCIARCHIBALD GOODLOE,
DECEASED, APPELLANT, V. JOHN AL PINTARD.

Where a settler upon-the public lands had a pre-emption right to them and sold them
to aperson who again sold them to a third party, the originalvendor has a lien

upon the land for the balance of the purchase- noney still due, and can enforce it
by a bill in chancery, notwithstanding the vendee has taken out a patent in his
own na3ie under a subsequent pre-emption law.

TaS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Arkansas, sitting as a court-of equity.
On the 12th of April, 1814, Congress passed an act, (3 Stat.
at Large, p. 122, ยง 5,) giving a right of preemption to settlers upon certain portions 6f the, public lands, under certain
conditions, one of which was, that the Indian title should have
been extinguished.
A lierson, by tlie name of Jane Matthers, claimed a right of
preemption, under this act, to the southeast quarter of section
one, township eighteen south, range one west, containing
168& acres, lying south of the Arkansas River.
On the 24th of August, 1818, the Indian title to this country
became extinguished by the ratification of a treaty concluded
with the Quapaw Indians.
Jane Matthers assigned her preemption right to Thomas T.
Tunstall, but at'what time the record did not show.
In 1833, an agreement was made for the sale of this land, between Tunstall and J. ML Pintard, which was not formally concluded until the ensuing year; but Pintard, with his family,
moved upon the land in the autumn of 1833, and had several
slaves engaged in clearing the land, making fences, &c.
On the 1st of April, 1834, Tunstall executed a deed for the
land to Pintard, for the consideration of one thousand five hundred dollars, cash, and covenanted to convey the legal title as
soon as a patent should issue for it.
On the 19th of June, 1834, Congress passed an act (4 Stat.
at Large, 678,) declaring, "That -every settler or occupant of the
public lands, prior to the passage of this act, who is now in
possession and cultivated any part thereof, in the year 1833,"
wasjntitled to a preemption.
On the 24th of July, 1834, a preemption right, and certificate
of purchase was granted and issued to Tunstall, for the quarter
section which he claimed under Jane Matthers, under the preemption act of 1814, by the land-officers at Little Rock.
On the 23d of March, 1835, Pintard sold the quarter section
which he had purchased from Tunstall, together with part of an
adjacent quarter section, which he had acquired in another way

DECEMBER TERMf,

1851.

25

Thredgill v. Pintard.

making two hundred acres in all, to William Rhodes, for the
price of forty dollars per acre; binding himself to convey the
same by a general warranty deed as soon as the patents could
be procured. Rhodes executed two promissory notes for $4000
each, the first due and payable on the 1st of March, 1836, and
the second due on 1st of March, 1837. Pintard then delivered
possession of the land and improvements, to Rhodes.
On the 13th of March, 1837, Rhodes sold the land which he
had obtained from Pintard, together with some other land to
Archibald Goodloe, the appellant in the present case,,for sixtyfive dollars per acre, being estimated to contain four hundred
and fifty acres, when accurately surveyed. Five thousand seven
hundred dollars was to be paid in hand, and the balancevas to be
paid in sixt days, except the amount yet remaining unpaid by
hodes for the purchase of said land, which was to be paid as
soon as the title with general warranty should be regularly made
to said Goodloe.
On the 24th of February, 1838, the Commissioner of the
Land-Office annulled the entry by Tunstall, as assignee of Jane
Matthers, "inasmuch as the tract entered was not the property
of the United States at the passage of the act under which the
claim was made," viz., the act of 12th of April, 1814. He
therefore cancelled the certificate, and directed the Register and
Receiver at Little Rock, to refund the money to whoevei might
be entitled to receive the same.
On the 28th of March, 1838, Goodloe paid to Pintard, the
sum of $600, which was credited on the back of the note, which
had become due on the 1st of March, 1836, given by Rhodes to
Pintard.
On the 22d of June, 1838, Congress passed another preemption law, (5 Stat. at Large, 251,) by which every settler of the
public lands, being the head of a family, or over twenty-five
years of age, should be entitled to a preemption.
On the 15th of February, 1839, Goodloe proved his pre~mp.
tion right under the above law entirely for his own benefit
On the 31st of May, 1839, Goodloe paid to Pintard the sum
of $1,363.82, which was credited upon the same note given by
Rhodes, upon which the preceding payment was credited.
Oztthe 9th of April, 1840, Goodloe obtained his preEmption
right, and on the 3d of March, 1841, a patent was issued to him
by the United States.
On the 3d of March, 1843, Congress passed an act (5 Stat. at
Large, 603,) -extending to the settlers on the lands south of the
Arkansas, the same privileges which were granted by the act of
1814.
In afrch 1842 Pintard a resident of the State of Mississiwri

-

26

SUPREME COURT.
Thredgill v. Pintard.

filed his bill in the Circuit Court of the United States, for
the District of Arkansas, against Goodloe and Tunstall, praying
2or a decree against Goodloe for the remainder of the purchasemoney due to him upon the purchase of the tracts of land, and
claiming a lien thereon, to have them subjected to sale for the
payment of said money. It is not necessary to notice any other
of the proceedings in the case than Goodloe's answer, which
was filed in December, 1842. In it he resisted the claim against
him principally on the ground, that Pintard never had any good
and valuable claim or title to the land, either in law or equity;
and, therefore, Pintard was not entitled to demand and receive
the consideration agreed to be paid. Goodloe claimed that he
himself held the legal title derived directly from the United States.
In April, 1845, the cause came on for hearing upon bill, exhibits, answers, issues, and evidence, and was argued; and in
April, 1847, a decree was passed, that Goodloe should pay to
Pintard the sum of ten thousand five hundred and fifty-two
dollars, together -with ten per cent. interest from the rendition of
the decree till paid; that the two pieces of land mentioned in
the proceedings should be charged with the payment; and
that in default of payment by the 1st of November, ensuing, the
land should be sold, &c. &c.
From this decree Goodloe appealed to this court.
It was argued by Mr. Lawrence, and there was also a brief
filed by Mr. ifo'rehead,for the appellant, and by 111r. Crittenden,
for the appellee, on whose side a brief was also filed by Mr. H
S. Foote and Mr. Sebastian.
The counsel for the appellant contended that the decree is
erroneous, and ought to be reversed.

It is admitted, in the

opinion rendered, that the title of Pintard was invalid, and that
Goodloe might have obtained a rescission of his contract on this
ground; but as he perfected his title by obtaining a pre-emption
in his own name, his act, while he continued in possession, enured
to the benefit of Pintard, who should only be compelled to
account for the amount paid for the better title. Ordinarily a
vendor and a vendee, and those claiming under a vendee, stand
in the relation of landlord and tenant, and all acts of the vendee
in perfecting his title enure to the benefit of the vendor. But
this, from the nature of the case, must be confined to such acts
as the vendor might himself have performed. Tunstall was a
trespasser upon the public lands, going on Indian territory in
express violation of law, and had no right which could be transmitted by him. Equity cannot enforce a contract founded on a
violation of law. It.is true he had an improvement, but it was
one made in the teeth of a law of Congress ; and if it was unlawful for him to make the improvement, it was but a continued

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

27

Thredgill v. Pintard.

violation of law to place another man upon it. Congress afterwards, it is true, granted pre-emptions, which,if he had continued
on the land, would have embraced his case. But can this give'
him any equity ? It is well settled, by the practice of .the
department, under the sanction of the opinion of the AttorneyGeneral, that if a man trespasses by settling on the public land,
and afterwards places a tenant on the land, that the tenant is
entitled to a pre-emption in his own name, and not the landlord.
That is where there is. an express and not a mere quasi tenancy,
as in this case.
Neither Tunstall, or Pintard, pr Rhodes, could have obtained a
pre-emption. Goodloe alone was entitled, in his own right, by
virtue of his own cultivation and settlement, and Pintard can
derive no benefit from a contract illegal in its inception, and
which could have been perfected by no act of his.
But if this view of the subject is wrong, the decree is radi
cally erroneous in several particulars. Goodloe's obligation to
Rhodes was not to pay to Pintard, as seems to have been
assumed. He did not agree to stand in the shoes of Rhodes.
Rhodes promised to pay in one and two years, with ten per cent.
interest. Goodloe bound himself to pay to Rhodes the amount
due to Pintad, when the'legal title should be obtained. The
giving a gross sum of $10,552, including the ten per cent. iLp to
the rendition of the decree, with an accruing interest of ten per
cent. upon the whole amount, makes the accruing interest about
twenty per cent., upon the principal due. This can hardly be
fairly construed as the true meaning of the contract between
Goodloe and Rhodes, and is such a compounding of interest as
cannot be tolerated by a court of equity.
The amount, however, decreed upon the principles established
by the Circuit Court, is for too much by at least one thousand
dollars. The number of acres for which Goodloe obtained a
pre-emption was 168, and the court settled the quantity in fractional section six, at 11 acres, making 179, instead of 200, which
-they were estimated to contain. This, at $40 per acre, would
make $7,160 ; adding ten per cent interest upon the two instalments into which this sum was to be divided, and the aggregate
sum, at the rendition of the decree, would be $14,736.
The credits allowed by the court are as 'follows:
March, 1838,

.

.

.

Interest at 10 per cent. to date of decree,

$600.00

543.50

.

1,143.50
May, 1839,

.

.

.

.

Interest at 10 per cent.. to decree,

.

-

.

.

.

.

1,163.00

.

.

.

943.00

2.306.00

28

SUPREME COURT.
Thredgill v. Pintard.

.
January, 1840, .
Interest at 10 per cent,

.
.o..

.

.

..
.

.

200.00
145.00
345.00

April, 1840-expenses of procuring pre-emption,
.
Interest at 10 per cent to date of decree,

900.00

.
.

630.00
1,530.00

Making the aggregate amount of credits, including interest
at 10 per cent, $5,324. This sum, deducted from _14,736,
would leavea$9,412, instead of $10,552 decreed by the court; so
that, admitting that it was correct to aggregate principal and
interest, and -to give accruing interest upon the whole sum, the
decree is for too much by more than $1,000.
It is also respectfully contended, that it was erroneous to
decree a sale of the fractional quarter, in section six, without
obtaining the legal title, or having the holder of it before the
court, so that the purchaser could obtain it by decretal order.
Fintard alleges, in his bill, p. 9, " That Ben. Taylor, of Chicot
county, Arkansas, holds the legal title to said part of section six,
and has held the same for some years." Ht is hardly necessary to
urge, that it was erroneous to.decree a sale of this land, without
first obtaining the legal title from Taylor.
The-forii of the decree is also erroneous, and in violation of the
established principles of equity jurisprudence. The. defendant,
Goodloe, was ordered to pay a gross sum of money, by a named
day; and if not paid, the commissioner named in the decree
was directed to sell the land, make a conveyance, deliver possession, &c.; leaving it to the commissioner to ascertain whether
the money was paid or tendered, and to decide accordingly.
Whether-the tender was or was not a good one$ or whether the
payment was or was not made, was left to the adjudication of
the commissioner, when it was the province of the court to
decide such matters. The proper chancery practice on this subject is given with great clearness and precision in the case of
Downing v. Palmateer, 1 Mon. 66.
The counsel for the appellee contended that the agreement
on the part of Goodloe, to pay the purchase-money to Pintard,
was founded upon a valuable consideration, and necessarily
enured to the benefit of the latter, and upon which he might
seek a remedy,-.although the contract was between Rhodes and
Goodloe alone. Piggott v. Thompson, 3 Bos. & P. 149; Chitty
on Contracts (5 ed.), 53; Marchington v. Vernon, 1 Bos. & P.
-101 in notes; Martyn v. Hinde, Cowp. 437; Dutton v. Poole, 2
Levinz 210; 1 Ventris 318.

DECEMBER TERM, 185,1.

29

Thredgill v. Pintard.

A pre-emption right is property, so regarded by the government and the community at large. In Arkahsas, "all improvements on the public lands of the United States are subject to
execution." Rev. Stat. p. 377.
To call a settler upon the public lands a "trespasser," is an
outrage upon a policy of the government which has been steadily pursued for more than twenty-five years.
The great point, to which the others are subordinate is, that
Goodloe obtained the possession of both parcels of land through
Pintard, and by a recognition of his title. By means of that
possession, Goodloe was enabled to obtain a pre-emption to the
principal tract, and which he could not have obtained if Pintard
had not sold to Rhodes, and Rhodes to Goodloe. The fact is
admitted in his answer; and indeed it is perfectly manifest that,
if Pintard had remained in possession, he could and would have
obviated any defect in his title, by availing himself of some
confirmatory act of Congress, or of the later pre-emption acts,
that is, of 1834 or 1838.
It was not competent, therefore, for Goodloe to disavow tie
title of Pintard, because they stood in the relation of landlord
and tenant. The purchase of Goodloe fiom Rhodes was-made
on the 13th of March, 1837. The pre-emption of 1814 was
ordered to be cancelled on the 28th February, 1838, while GoodJoe was in possession; and it is worth while to observe that
one of the reasons for allowing him to enter the tract he did,
under the act of 1838, was, that he alleged "himself to be
the purchaser from the individual who made the first-mentioned
entry."
It is not pretended that Pintard was guilty of any fraud, or
that Rhodes was guilty of any; and, if there was fraudulent
conduct, this court will be obliged to attribute it to Goodloe.
Of that I say nothing, because the case, as I view it, does not
demand it.
The principle stated by this court, in Galloway v. Finley, (12
Peters, 295,) most strongly and pointedly applies: "That if the
vendee buys up a better title than that of the vendor, and the
vendor was guilty of no fraud, he can only be compelled to
refund to the vendee the amount of money paid for the better
title." Searcy v. Kirkpatrick, Cooke's Tenn. Rep. 11; litchell v. Barry, 4 Haywood's Tenn. Rep. 136. Vide Mforgan's Heirs
v. Boone's Heirs, 4 Monroe, 297. Both *he cases of Galloway
and Searcy, above cited, must, I think, be regarded as conclusive
upon the present. There is, indeed, a strong analogy between
the three-a similarity not often found to exist, with this
difference, as it appears to me, - that in the one at bar there are
more equitable circumstances in favor 2f the vendor, and de.

SUPREME COURT.
Thredgill v. Pintard.

manding the interposition of a court of equity, than in the
others.
In the case in 12 Peters, this court further declare, that, "in
reforming the contract, equity treats the purchaser as a trustee
for the vendor, because he holds under the latter; and acts done
to perfect the title by the former, when in possession of the
land, enure to the benefit of him under whom the possession
was obtained, and through whom the knowledge that a defect
in the title existed, was derived. The vendor and vendee stand
in the relation of landlord and tenant; the vendee cannot disOvow the vendor's title." Willison v. Watkins, 3 Peters, 45;
Connelly's Heirs v. Chiles, 2 A. K. Marshall's Rep. 242; Wilson v. Smith, 5 Yerger's Rep. 398; Blight's Lessee- v. Rochester, 7 Wheaton, 547. The vendor will be obliged to make
an abatement in the purchase-money equal to what it cost to
clear the title. Officer v. Murphy, 8 Yerger, 502; Meadows
v. Hopkins, 1 Meigs, Tenn. Rep. 181; Marshall v. Craig, 1
Bibb, 396. No court will allow a vendee to pry into and
discpver defects in his own title, with a view to purchase an
outstanding claim, to the prejudice ,of the vendor. He may
perfect his title, it is true, but then it must enure to the benefit
of the vendor; and all the vendee can conscientiously demand
is the cost and expense of procuring the better title. In this case
it is allowed to Goodloe - nine hundred dollars, all he asks;
and which is certainly a very liberal allowance, but of which
Pintard does not complain.
This very case furnishes a striking and forcible illustration of
the soundness and justice of the doctrine thus laid down "by
this court. Goodloe, through Pintard, obtained a title to a
tract of land by an expenditure of nine hundred. dollars, which
was worth sixty-five dollars per acre, or mnore than ten thousand
dollars; and if he can escape the payment of the purchasemoney due from Rhodes to Pintard, and which was assumed
by Goodloe, he will pocket the last-mentioned sum, and obtain
the rich fruits of Pintard's two years' labor on the land for
nothing! Can this be tolerated? Can it be thought of? In
Winlock v. Hardy, 4 Littell's Rep. 274, it was said," that a
tenant cannot deny the title of his landlord; nor can a person
who enters upon land, in virtue of an executory contract of purchase, deny the right of him under whom he enters; for he is
quasi a tenant, holding only in virtue of his vendor's title, and
by his permission.
Vide Turly v. Rodgers, 1 Marsh. 245; Logan v. Steele's
Heirs, 7 Monroe, 104; Tevis's- Rep's, v. Richardson's Heirs, Id.
659; Fowler v. Cravens, 3 J. J. Marsh. 430.
Goodloe never placed himself in a, situation to contest the

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.
Thredgill

81

v. Pintard.

title of PintarL If, upon the discovery of the defect in the
title of the latter; if, upon the cancellation of the pre-emption
certificate under the act of 1814, Goodloe had surrendered the
land to Pintard, bonz fide, he might, perhaps, have purchased a
better title, and arrayed it in hostility to that of Pintard, and
resisted the relief prayed for in the bill. This he did not do.
He continued in possession; bought up a better title while in
possession; nor is there any proof that he ever disavowed the
title of Pintard, until the filing of his answer. - 3 Marshall's
Rep. 287.
The case of Wilson v. Wetherby, 1 Nott & McCord's. Rep.
373, fully sustains this doctrine, and with regard to which this
court, in Willison v. Watkins, 7 Wheat. 53, said: " In the
case of Nott & McCord, 374, the court decide, that where a.
defendant enters under a plaintiff he shall not dispute his title
while he remains in possession, and that he must first give up
his possession, and bring his suit to try titles. To the correctness of this principle we yield our assent, not as one professing
to be peculiar to South Carolina, but as a rule of common law
applicable to the cases of fiduciary possession before notice."
1b. 54, 55,56.
Goodloe, by holding the possession, and proving up a preemption in his own name, prevented Pintard from complying
with his covenant as to making title; and, such being the fact,
the familiar and well-settled principle applies, that if the obligee shall do any act to obstruct or prevent the obligor from
performing his part of the contract, the obligor is thereby discharged from its performance; or, to speak more properly, the
contract, as far as he is concerned, is in legal contemplation
actually performed, and authorizes him to demand performance
at the hands of the other party. Bac. Abr., tit. " Conditions,"
Q, (3.); 3 Com. Dig., tit. " Condition," L. 6; Co. Lit. 207;
Powell on Contracts, 417, 418,-419; Pothier on Obligations, 127. In the case of Marshall v. Craig, 1 Bibb's Rep.
*95, which in many of its features was analogous to the
present, it was laid down as a correct principle, abundantly
established by authority, " that wherever a man by doinhg a previous act would acquire a right, if, owing to the conduct of the
other party, he is prevented front doing it, he acquires the right
as completely as if it had been actually done." See the case, from
page 379 to 396, and authorities cited.
In the cases of Majors v. Hickman, 2 Bibb, 217, and Carrell,
v. Collins, Id. 429, it is decided that he who prevents the performance of a condition cannot avail himself of the non-performance. 3 Com. Dig. Condition, L. 7; Borden v. Borden,
5 Mass. 67; Clendennen v. Paulsel, 3 Missouri Rep. 230;
Crmnp v. Mead, Id. 233.

32

SUPREkE

COURT.

Thredgill v. Pintard.

"If a purchaser," says Sugden, "takes possession under a
contract, and he afterwards rejects the title, he must relinquish
the possession." 2 Sugden on Vendors, 23.
The same principle as to obstructing or preventing the performance of a covenant is applicable to the portion of the s6uthwest
fractional quarter of section 6, T. 18 south, r~nge 1 east, because
Goodloe, by obtaining the bond of Ben. Taylor from Tunstall,
prevented Pintard from getting title to the part embraced in the
bond, and which Goodloe says has been found to contain only
eleven acres. For this, however, he acknowledges himself liable,
and expresses his willingness to pay, and says he "never did
refuse to pay." As to title to said eleven acres of this section,
as to his liability to Pintard therefor, Goodloe makes no contest;
does not resist performance; but, on the contrary, recognizes
Pintard's right to relief to that extent.
Indeed, from the proof, we are warranted in believing and
assuming it as true, when taken in connection with his answer,
that Goodloe has -obtained the legal title. In his letter to Peter
O'Flynn, employed by him as an agent to procure from Tunstall
the bond of Ben. Taylor, dated June tst, 1840, he says: "I h ave
purchased a tract of land of John X11.
Pintard,the same he purchased of Thomas T. Tunstall; the title is all perfect except about
20 acres of the southwest fractionalquarter of section 6, township
18, range I east. Tunstall holds Ben. Taylor's obligation to
conv;y to a particular line known to the seller. Taylor is willing to convey, if Tunstall will send me the obligation. . . . I
have the original contract between Pintaxd and Tunstall, handed
to me by Pintard, as an order for the obligation on Taylor. Col.
Taylor's wife resides in Kentucky. If you will see Tunstall and
forward me the obligation, directed to Richmond, Ky., I can have
a deed acknowledged to bring down with me in September."
Vide copy of let-ter attached to the deposition of O'Flynn.
Now, O'Flynn testifies, that the obligation was procured by
him from Tunstall, and sent to Goodloe, and that Goodloe acknowledged the receipt thereof, and paid him for his services.
(See O'Flynn's deposition.) The same fact is acknowledged in
a letter from Goodloe to Pintard, dated Nov. 10, 1840. (See
exhibit G, letter No. 4.) As Taylor, who held the legal title,
was willing to convey to Goodloe, provided Goodloe could obtain this bond from Tunstall; as Goodloe did obtain the bond
in 1840; and as at the time of filing his amended answer, near
five years afterwards, he acknowleged his liability to this extent,
and did not even hint at any inability to obtain title, nor doclare
that he had not obtained it, I think we are bound to conclude
that the deed, which he said he could procure from Taylor, had
been procured, or that he had derived a title to this part satis-

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.
Thredgill v. Pintard.

factory to himself, and thus entitling Pintard to compensation
and relief. If he could not, or had not, obtained title, with the
means in his hands to do so, he would most undoubtedly have
insisted on it by way of defence in his answer. Under all the
circumstances, silence is conclusive against him; but we have
something more than that, namely, a distinct admission of liability, contained in his answer.
It may perhaps be said, that Taylor ought to have been made
a party to the bill. In the first place, I beg leave to remark, that
he was not materially interested in the suit; if he had any interest at all it was only nominal, and no beneficial purpose could
have been effected by making him a party. He was ready and
willing, as Goodloe informs us, to convey; and in fact no decree
could have been taken against him; he would have been at best
but a passive party; and as he could do nothing necessary to the
perfection of the decree, the court was fully warranted in proceeding without him. Joy v. Wirtz et al. 1 Wash; C. C. Rep. 417;
Van Reimsdyk v. Kane, 1 Gallison, C. C. Rep. 371 ; Mallow v.
Hinde, 12 Wheat. 193; Hoxie v. Carr, 1 Sumner, C. C. Rep. 173;
Wormley v. Wormley, 8 Wheat. 451.
But, in the second place, it is too late to make the objection,
in this c6urt, on appeal. It was an objection not taken in the
Circuit Court, either by demurrer, plea, or answer; and surely
the appellant cannot be allowed to surprise the appellee with it
now. Want of proper parties must be objected to by demdrrer,
or plea, or answer, and cannot be urged at the hearing. Mitford's Eq. Pl. 146; Milligan v. Mliliedge, 3 Cranch, 320.
The next inquiry is as to the lien of Pintard for the unpaid
purchase-money. The lien of a vendor of land against it is
peculiar to a court of equity, and can be enforced only in that
court. It exists as a charge or incumbrance on the land against
the vendee and his heirs, and other privies in estate, and also
against all subsequent purchasers with notice of the non-payment of the purchase-money. It is wholly independent of possession on the part of the vendor, and attaches to the estate as a
trust equally, whether it be actually conveyed or only contracted
to be conveyed. 2 Story's Equity, 462-467.
"WWhere a vendor," says Sugden, (Vendors, vol. 3, c. 18,
p. 182, 183,) " delivers possession of an estate to a purchaser
without receiving the purchase-money, equity, whether the estate
be or be not conveyed, and although there was not any special
agreement for that purpose, and whether the estate be freehold
or copyhold, gives the vendor a lien on the land for the money."
And he cites, as sustaining these positions; Chapman v. Tanner,
1 Vern. 267; Pollbxfen v. loore, 3 Atk. 272; 1 Bro. Ch. Cases,
302,424; 6 Ves. Jr. 483; Mackreth v. Symmons, 15 Ves. Jr. 329;

34

SUPREME COURT.
Thredgill v. Pintard.

Smith v. Hibbard, 2 Dick, 730; Charles v. Andrews, 9 Mod. 152;
Topham v. Constantine, Toml. 135; Evans v. Tweedy, 1 Beav.
55; Winter v. Lord Anson, 3 Russ. 488.
"So, on the other hand," says he, "if the vendor cannot make a
title, and the purchaser has paid any part of the purchase-money,
it seems that he has a lien for it on the estate." 3 Atk. 1; 2 You.
& Jerv. 493; 3 You. & Jerv. 262. Thus proving that the lien
does not arise nor depend upon perfect title. The term "estate"
is used, which "imports," says Coke, "the interest which a man
has in lands." Co. Lit. 345, a; 4 Com. Dig. Estates, A 1.
According to the late Judge Story, "the principle upon which
courts of equity have proceeded in establishing the lien in the
nature of a trust is, that a person having gotten the estate of
another, ought not in cohscience, as between them, to be allowed
to keep it, and not to pay the consideration-money. A third
person, having full knowledge that the estate has been so obtained, ought not to be permitted to keep it without ,making
such payment, for it attaches to him also, as matter of con,
science and 'luty." 2 Story's Equity, 465.
Did not C-oodloe get the land through Pintard, and with full
notice that the purchase-money was unpaid? Nay, did he not
engage to pay that purchase-money himself? As long as he
held the possession of the land thus acquired, dould he resist this
lien? It must certainly be manifest that he could not. The
proposition is clear, that Pintard has a lien upon the land derived by Goodloe, through him, which the Circuit Court properly
recognized and enforced.
These are the principal points in this case, and upon a careful
investigation of them, I think it is obvious that the decree must
be affirmed: first, on the law of the case; and, second, upon
the principles of common honesty, which exist among men, and
'which courts of equity will always enforce. I beg the indulgence of the court to allude to a few matters of minor importance.
1. It is insisted in the answer, that the dwelling-house of
Pintard was upon section six, and that he was not entitled to a
pre-emption under the act of 1834. To this I reply, that whether
he was or was not entitled to a pre-emption under that act, is
not material to the support of his right to relief. But in fact, he
was so entitled. The dwelling-house which was there w-hen
Pintard purchased of Tunstall, in the spring of 1833, vas probably situated on or near the meridian line which divides seetion six and section one; but the proof is clear, that all the
other buildings, improvements, and- cultivation, were upon the
southeast quarter of section one, or the large tract, and to
which Goodloe subsequently proved up a pre-emption and ob-

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

35

Thredgill v. Pintard.

tained the legal title in his own name. Pintard was a settler,
or occupant of that tract within the meaning of the act of 1834,
(vide Instructions and Opinions, 2d vol p. 589, No. 535- p.
597, No. 543,) and as such most unquestionably entitled to a
preinption.
2. Goodloe insists that of section six, sold to Rhodes by
Pintard, and by Rhodes to himself, there was not enough embraced in the bond of Benjamin Taylor to make, with the other
tract, two hundred acres; and that, upon ascertaining the boundaries and lines specified in said bond, it was found that it did
not contain more than eleven acres. How it was ascertained he
does not state; and we only have his own assertion, without
proof, that there was but eleven acres. From the proof, (see
deposition of Booth,) it appears that the portion of land, thus
described by boundaries in said bond, must have amounted to
more than eleven acres. The court, however, in the decree,.
assume that to be the quantity; and of this Pintard does not
complain, and surely Goodloe cannot be permitted to do so.
That there were not two hundred acres in the whole, could be no
ground for a rescission of the contract, if Goodloe were complainant, nor can it furnish any defence to a specific performance
when h6 is. defendant. He obtained what he principally desired - obtained the dwelling-house and all the other buildings,
all the cleared lands, and all the improvements; he obtained
the principal object of his purchase; and, as there was no
fraudulent misrepresentation or concealment on the part of Pintard, the case is . proper one for abatement in the amount of
the purchase-money to the extent of the small deficiency. This
is well settled by authority. Newland on Contracts, ch. 12, p.
251, 252; 2 Atk. 371; 4 Bro. C. C. 494; Drewe v. Crop, 9
Yes. 368; 7 Ves. 270; 6 Yes. 678; Calcraft v. Roebuck, 1
Ves. jr. 221 ; Dyer v. Hargrave, 10 Ves. 505; 2 Story's Equity,
88; 1 Sugden on Vendors, 506, 507,508 525, 526.
If an estate be sold at so much per acre, and there is a deficiency in the number conveyed, the purchaser will be entitled to
a compensation, although the estate was estimated at that number in an old survey. 1 Sugden on Vendors, chap. 7, ยง 3,
p. 525 to 535,,and notes and cases therein cited, 6th Am. edit.
Where the contract rests in fieri, the general opinion has
been, that the purchaser, if the quantity be considerably less
than it Was stated, will be entitled to an abatement, although the
agreement contains the words more or less, or by estimation. lb.
526; Hill v. Buckley, 17 Ves. 394; 1 Call. 313; 4 Mason,
419.
The utmost that Goodloe could claim, would be an abatement
This the court allowed him; or what
for the deficiency.

36

SUPREME COURT.
Thredgill v. Pintard.

amounts to the same thing, charged him with the 168' acres,
and the eleven acres at the contract price. Surely he will be
obliged to resort to some other ground upon which to assail the
present decree.
3. Goodloe has waived his right, if any he ever had, to object
to Pintard's title. His letters, after having proved up a preempion in his own name, and especially the payment made by him
to Pintard on the 31st May, 1839, of $1,363i, amount to a
waiver. The preemption having been proved up on the 15th
February, 1839, this payment was made more than three months
afterwards. The letters alluded to, beginning in January, 1840,
and ending in October, 1841, embrace a period of near two
years; and when that payment and these provisions to pay are
taken into consideration, there could hardly be more conclusive
evidence of such waiver. 2 Sugden on Vendors, 10-14;
Mlargravine of Anspach v. Noel, 1 Mladd. 310 ; 2 Swanst. 172 ;
3 You. & Coll. 291.
I beg leave to invite attention to the very able opinion of the
Circuit Court, delivered by the district judge, the Hon. Benjamin
Johnson.
Viewing the whole record, it appears to me that
Goodloe has no reas nable ground on which to assail this decree. All the payments made by him have been credited; the
expense of procuring the better title, nine hundred dollars, has
been abated from the purchase-money; and an abatement, at
the rate of forty dollars per acre, has also been made for deficiency in quantity in section six. Surely- he cannot conscientiously deny that justice has been done him; and, when his
conduct in this transaction is scrutinized by a just and enlightened court, he can hardly expect to succeed in his appeal hardly expect to escape that responsibility which the enlarged
principles of a court of equity fix upon him.
The case of Bush v. Marshall, 6 How. 291, is referred to as
being precisely in point.
Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from the decree of the Circuit Court, for the
District of Arkansas.
Under the act of the 12th of April, 1814, Jane Mathers claimed
a right of preemption, by virtue of occupancy nd cultivation,
to the southeast quarter of section one, township eighteen south,
range one west, containing one hundred and sixty-eight acres
and ninety-six hundredths, lying south cf the Arkansas River.
She assigned her right to Thomas T. Tunstall, who entered and
paid for the land at the Land-Office at Little Rock, the 24th of
July, 1834; and obtained a patent certificate. On the 24th of February, 1838, this purchase was annulled by the Commissioner of

DECEMBER TERM,

1851.

Thredgill v. Pintard.

the Land-Office, on the ground that the Indian title to the land
had not been extinguished when the settlement was made. The
Indian title was relinquished to the United States by the Quapaw treaty, the 24th of August, 1818.
This tract was purchased of Tunstall by Pintard, in the spring
of 1833, who took immediate possession, and made improvements on it. In the autumn of the same year he removed his
family to the land, constructed cabins, stables, and other fixtures,
and in the spring of 1834 he cultivated seventy-five or eighty
acres in corn and cotton.
On the 23d of March, 1835, Pintard sold the above quarter
section, and a part of the southwest quarter of section six, so as
to make a tract of two hundred acres, at forty dollars per acre,
to William Rhodes, who gave two notes of four thousand dollars
each, payable in' one and two years, with interest at ten per cent.
per annum. The two hundred acres were sold by Rhodes to
Goodloe on the 3d of March, 1837, for sixty-five dollars per acre.
As a part of the consideration for this purchase, Goodloe agreed
to pay Pintard the amount of his claim so soon as a regular title
for the premises should be obtained.
Goodloe, on the 15th of February, 1839, proved a preemption
in his own name, under the act of June 22d, 1838, to the quarter
section, and paying the purchase-money into the Land-Office, he
obtained a patent in his own name. Prior to this, on his contract with Rhodes, he paid to Pintard nineteen hundred sixtythree dollars and eighty-two cents. But having obtained the
title to the land in his own name, he refused to make any further
payments to Pintard on the ground that his claim was void. To
enforce the payment of the sum due him on the sale to Rhodes,
Pintard filed the bill now before us, with a prayer that the land
might be sold, or so much of it. as should be necessary to discharge the balance due to him.
It must be conceded that the first settler upon this land, the
Indian title to it not having been extinguished, could claim
under the act of 1814, no preemptive right. No laws giving to
settlers a right of preemption, can be so construed as to embrace
Indian lands. Such lands have always been protected from settlement and survey by penal enactments. But, it appears that
the Indian claim to this land was relinquished to the United
States by treat-, in 1818; after which it was embraced by all
general acts givin to settlers a right of pregmption.
By the act of the 26th of M1ay, 1824, preemption rights were
given north of the Arkansas River, to all 7Tho were entitled to
such rights, under the act of 1814, and by the third section of
the act of the 1st of March, 1843, every settler on the public
lands south of the Arkansas River was entitled to the same beneVOL. X1I.

4

SUPREME COURT.
Thredgill v. Pintard.

fits under the provisions of the act of 1814, as though he had
resided north of said river. By these acts a right of preemption
was given in virtue of the first settlement upon the land.
But there was another and prior act which gave to the occupant of this tract a right of preemption. By the act of the 19th
of June, 1834, every settler upon the public lands prior to the
passage of that act, who was in possession of a quarter section
and cultivated a part of it in 1833, was entitled to a preemption.
In 1833, Pintard was in possession of the quarter section and cultivated a part of it, and he continued to occupy and improve it
until the spring of 1835, when he sold his right to Rhodes.
By his purchase Goodloe entered into the possession of a valuable property, and if he desired to 5:escind the contract it was
incumbent on him to relinquish the possession of the quarter
section, and claim the cancelment of the contract. He cannot
avail himself of the benefit of the contract and resist a performance of it on his part.
But Pintard, when he sold to Rhodes, was entitled to the preemption of the quarter section. His claim was not only a valid
one, but it was sold on reasonable terms, as Rhodes in two years
sold the same to Goodloe at an advance of twenty-five dollars
per acre. The attempt, under such circumstances, of Goodloe
to avoid the payment of the consideration, by procuring the title
in his own name, is fraudulent. A title thus procured would
have enured to the benefit of the vendor, even if the preemptive
right had not been vested in him.
A doubt is suggested in the argument whether Goodloe, having purchased from Rhodes, can be made responsible to Pintard. In his contract of purchase, as a part of the considergtion, Goodloe bound himself to pay the amount due to Pintard
from Rhodes on the previous purchase. It has been held that,
under such circumstances, an action at law may be maintained
in the name of the person to whom payment is to be made. But
this is a case in chancery, and no one has doubted, that in equity,
such a, contract may be enforced.
Has Pintard a lien upon the land for the balance of the purchase-money? We think he has. Goodloe not only had notice
of this claim, but he bound himself to pay it.
It is alleged that there is a mistake in the computation of the
amount due, as decreed in the Circuit Court. If there be an error
in the calculation, it is in favor of Goodloe, and of which he has
I
no right to complain.
In their decree the Circuit Court gave the defendant a credit
for the money paid to Pintard, and also a loan to, him of two
hundred dollars, and a liberal allowance for the expense of procuring the title. A proper deduction was also made for the deficiency in the number of acres sold.

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

39

Parks v. Turner et aL

There appears to be no error in the decree; it is therefore
affirmed, with costs.

Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
Arkansas, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof,
it is now here ordered and decreed by this court, that the decree
of the said Circuit Court in this cause be, and the same is hereby,
affirmed, with costs.

GEORGE W. PARKs,
AND

PLAINTIFF IN

ERROR,

V. SUMPTER TURNER

IERY RENSHAW, TRADING UNDER THE COMMERCIAL FIRM

OF TURNER

&

RENSHAW.

In Louisiana, the Supreme Court of the State reviews the questions of fact as well as
of law which are brought up from the courts below; and when it reverses a judgment
upon either ground, it aiveq the judgment which the inferior court ought to have
given.
But when a case is brought before this court by a writ of error, it can only review
questions of law; and, therefore, where the validity of a verdict of ajurq is brought
into question, the practice which prevails in the State courts of Louisiana is inapplicable in the courts of the United States.
Hence, where the jury found averdict in general terms for the plaintiff in a suit upon
a promissory note, without finding the amount due, which the lawi and practice of.
Louisiana requir them to do, and, the court then gave judgment for the amount of
the note, this woald have been adjudged to be a cause of reversal of the judgment
by the Supreme Court of the State, but cannot be so held by this court.
The sufficiency of the verdict must be judged by the rules of the common law and the
Statutes of the United States, and not by the laws and practice of Louisiana. The
act of 1824 (4 Stat. at, Large, 62) does not includi such a case.
By the common law, althougA a judgment in such a case might not have beeni strictly
proper, yet under a power of amending the verdict, the judgment can stand, because
the plea having been that no consideration was given for the note and the verdict
being for the plaintiff, it necessarily found that the whole amount was due.
The 32d section of the Judiciary Act provides for this case by enjoinihg upon this
court to disregard niceties of form, and so it was decided in 16 Peters, 321.
The Constitution of Louisiana requires the State judges to give reasons for their deeigions; but this is not operative upon the judges of the Circuit Court of the United
States. On the contr6ry, their reasons form no part of the record when the case is
brought up to this con

THIs case waas brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the tinited Stat68 for the Eastern District of Louisiana.
The plaintiffs, Turner & Renshaw, sued the defendant, Parks,

in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District, at New Orleans, to recover $5969.22, due by promissory
note executed by Parks to the plaintiffs. After exceptions over-

