DECEMBER TERM,

1851.

347

Rich et al. v. Lambert et al.

The decree of the District Court is therefore reversed, and the
-record remitted with directions to enter a decree in favor of complainant, and cause such other proceedings as to justice and

equity may appertain.
Order
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the District Court of the United States for the District of Texas, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by this
court, that the decree of the said District Court in this cause be,
and the same is hereby reversed with costs; and that this cause
be, and the same is hereby remanded to the said District Court,
with directions to that court to enter a decree in -favor of the
complainant, and for such further proceedings to be had therein
as to law and justice may appertain.

ABRAHAM

RICH AND JAMES HARRIS, CLAIMANTS QF THE SHIP
MARTHA, HER TACKLE, APPAREL, AND FURNITURE, APPELLANT,

V.

CHARLES LABIBERT AND ROBERT LAMBERT, COPARTNXRS,
TRADING UNDER THE FIRM OF LAMBERT AND BROTHER, AND
OTHERS.

SADIE V. SOUTH CAROLINA RAILROAD COMPANY.

Where several owners of a cargo filed libels in rem against the vessel for damages
done to the goods, and these libels were consolidated by order of the court, which
afterwards decreed damages in favor of the libellants, in some eases to more and in
some to less than $2,000, those eases where the.damages are less than that sun
must be dismissed, on an appeal to this ecurt, for want of jurisdiction.
Where further evidence was taken after the appeal to this court was entered, under the
authority of an act of Congress passed in 1803, (2 Stat. at Large, 244,) the issuing of
the commission by the clerk of the Circuit Court, and the uniting by both parties
in its execution, turnish a presumption that the proper order was given. f-not,
the parties have waived all objeftion.
Where goods on board of a ship received a damage which must necessarily have ae.
crued during the voyage, the oaus prbrandi is upon the master and owners to show
that it was occasioned by one of the perils of navigation within the exception of
the bill of lading.
The master i3 not to blame for bringing sacks of salt between decks, if it be well
stowed and packed, and secured with proper dnnnage. The usage of trade is to
carry salt in that way.
The evidence in the present case shows that the damage was caused by the perils of
navigation.
THESE twO

cases were included in the same judgment of the

Circuit Court of the United States for the District of South
Carolina, and were argued together in this court, upon an appeal from that judgment.

$48

SUPREME

COURT.

Rich et al. v. Lambert et al.

Originally, ten several libels were filed by the owners or consignees of goods shipped on bpard the Martha at Liverpool,
bound to Charleston. The libels claimed damages on account
of injury to the property by the negligence or misconduct of
the respondents and particularly that a large quantity of alt
was improperly stowed. The proceeding was in rem against
the vessel, in the District Court of the United States.
Richard Rich, captain of the ship, intervened for himself as
master, and for the owners, Abraham Rich and James Harris of
Massachusetts, and Samuel Snow of Maine.
The answers denied all charges of neglect and mismanagement, and averred that all the cargo on board was well and
securely stowed according to the usage of shipping; that the ship
was sound, stanch, and every way fitted for the voyage; that
she encountered severe gales and heavy seas on the voyage, and
made much water, and in consequence thereof, and of the leakage of the ship, and the change of latitude and consequent warm
weather, the water so taken in became warmed and was converted
into steam, and caused a damp atmosphere to pervade the lower
hold of the ship, which no power, care, or diligence, on the part
of the master, could have avoided, but that the sme was the
inevitable result of the ordinary dangers of navigation, &c.
The answers further aver, that the salt on board was stowed
on the second deck, where it was necessary to be stowed in order to steady the ship and prevent injury to the cargo in the
hold; that access between that deck and the hold where the
libellants' goods were stowed, was wholly and effectually cut
off, and -was independent of the cargo in the hold, and could
have -no effect upon the same more than if it had been stowed
in another ship; that the salt was well stowed in the ordinary
and customary part of the ship, according to the approved usage
of vessels trading to the United States from Liverpool.
Nine of the ten separate libels were ordered by the court to
be consolidated. The tenth case, in which the South Caroliaa
Railroad Company were libellant6, was not included in this
order.
_A trial was had in the District Court upon libels, answers,
and proofs, which resulted in the passage of a decree in favor of
the libellants, awarding to them, separately, the following sums
of money:
No. 1 Claim of Lambert & Brother
" 2
"
John Graveley .
C 3
"
Barnwell & Ravenel
cc 4
(
A.Moffett &Son .
CC5
"
W. & J. E. Adger

.

.

..

.

.

.
.

.
.

.
.

.
.

2,077 39
447 90
1,628 42
136 97
868 29

349

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.
Rich et &I. v. Lambert et al.

No. 6 Claim of A. Gordon
7
8
9
" 10
" 11
" 12
"
"
"

"c13
"14
"15

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

.

.

W. L. Timmons .
.
Dick & Crews .
.
.
Morton & Courtney
Jas. Adger & Co .
.
S.N. Hart
.
Watson & Johnston
Roosevelt, Hyde & Clark
S. Mowry & Son

$442 34

.

.

.

.

.
.

.

..
•
.
.
.

South Carolina Railroad Company

.

806
350
214
623
368
460
172
173

77
02
';4
40
02
26
09
69

2,045 11
$10,815 31

From this decree, the claimants appealed to the Circuit Court,
where further evidence was heard, and the decree of the District
Court affirmed, with the further addition of $774.90, whidh had
in the interim been paid to the respondents by the South Carolina R. R. Company.
The respondents appealed to this Court, and after the entry
of the appeal took further evidence under the act of Congress of
3d March, 1803. 2 Stat. at Large, 244.
It was argued by lir. Evans and 21r. Hunt, for the appellants,
and by 31 . Coxe and 31r. Butler for the appellees.
The points made by the counsel for the appellants were the
following:
The allegation in the libel is that the ship was loaded between
decks with a quantity of salt in bags; that the goods damaged
were stowed in the lower hold, under the middle deck, and that
the salt, between decks, leaked and passed through the deck, and
damaged the goods.
Unless this proposition is established as a fact, the libellants
-have no case. The ground taken is, that such stowage was unskilful and dangerous, and therefore the storms and tempests,
which, were proved to have occurred, will not excuse this unseamanlike and dangerous stowage.
This leading allegation of the libellants is denied, and it is
contended that the proof establishes, I. That, in point of fact, the salt did not leak or drip any
brine upon the goods in the hold, for these reasons:
1st. That the bags, when unloaded, were dry.
2d. That the dunnage was dry.
3d. That the surface of the between-decks was unstained
around the piles of salt.
VOL

vTr

30

350

SUPREME COURT.
Rich et al. v. Lambert et al.

4th. That the quantity of salt water, which all admit was
necessary to produce the injury, say, "many hogsheads," could
not, in the nature of things, have deliquesced from the salt, between decks, without wetting the bags and decks. The hatches
being found tight, and being higher than the surface of the deck,
the brine, if any did leak, must have gone through the seams of
the second deck, and yet no external stain was found around
the piles of salt.
II. That the stowage was seamanlike and necessary; the
weight of the salt being required to steady the ship.
II.- That the decks were well calked when the voyage commenced; and if any injury-had occurred, iris solely attributable
to stress of weather. This point was partially established by
the testimony taken before the district and circuit judge, but
has since been put beyond controversy by the examination of
the ship-carpenter, taken by commission, and now introduced
for the first time, so that the case of the claimants depends upon
these two propositions: 1st. That the salt stowed between
decks did not, and in the nature of things could not, have caused
the damage. 2d. That the stowage, under the circumstances,
Was well warranted by the usage i such instances, and if any
damage was caused by it, it resulted from :1change of facts produced by heavy storms and working of the vessel.
IV. These being established, the next important proposition
is, that the storms and waves, as fully proved to have been met
on the voyage, is the only remaining cause of loss, and is a risk
which falls on the insurer, and not on the carrier; as we contend that, as soon as the liability of the insurer begins, that of
common-carrier ends.
Certainly, if on the inception of the voyage, the cargo was
properly stowed, and the vessel sea-worthy, the allegations being
identical and confined to one fact, the stowage of the salt, we
must look to the answer which raises the issue.
The issue is raised in the pleadings by the allegations by libellants, that certain salt stowed between decks was the cause
of injury, by the salt dripping in large quanties through the
second deck, and injuring the-goods stowed in the hold; and a
full or unequivocal denial, by claimants, that said salt was improperly stowed, and espwially, that it was delivered safely in
Charleston, dry and in good order, and that none but the goods
in the hold were injured,. and fully accounted for by the dangers
of the seas.
This issue is to be resolved by the testimony, which, on behalf
of the libellants, failed in any positive proof that the salt caused
the injury, or thtt it was unseamanlike stowage.
The counter proof was positive. The admitted fact that the

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

851

Rich et al. v. Lambert et al.

salt was found dry on opening the hatches, not a stain on the
lower bags, no marks of brine from the pile of bags, all rendered
it a physical impossibility that a large quantity of brine had
leaked out during the voyage; and, consequently, being impossible, it was not true.
The witnesses may be divided into the following classes:
1. Those who examined the vessel when the hatches were
taken off, and broke out the cargo.
2. Those who state the usages of shipmasters to prove the
salt well stowed.
3. The crew and captain, and the new testimony of the shipcarpenter, to prove the vessel was stanch, and particularly that
the decks were well calked, and but for the storms the goods
would have been safely landed.
The testimony was then examined.
The counsel for the appellees contended :1st. That so far as regards the eight libellants, to wpom
these decrees award sums less than $2,000, the appeals should
be dismissed for want of jurisdiction. The interest of these
parties are wholly distinct and independent; as such they were
presented in separate libels; as such they were established by
independent evidence; as such they were reported on by the
clerk; and as such they are adjudicated upon by both the District and Circuit Courts.
The decisions of this court have established this principle so
far as the interests of the claimants are separable. Oliver v.
Alexander, 6 Pet. 143i Stratton v. Jarvis, 8 Id. 11; Spear v.
Place, 11 How. 522.
2d. On the mdrits. There does not seem to be any contrariety in the evidence as to the principal fact in the case, viz., that
the goods of the libellants sustained damage during the voyage
from Liverpool to Charleston. The main question which presented itself was as to the cause of that damage.
The following points are established by the evidence:
1. The goods were shipped in good order and condition, as
shown by the bills of lading. Benjamin v. Sinclair, 1 Bailey,
S. C. Rep. 174.
2. That they were damaged when delivered at the Dort of
discharge.
3. This throws upon the carrier the burden of showing that
the injury resulted from some cause for which he is not responsible. Forward v. Pittard, 1 T. R. 27; Story on Bailm. 509; 2
Ktnt's Com. 602; 1 Bing. 607.
4. The evidence shows that this injury did not result from a
storm or the dangers of the seas, for the vessel appears to have
sustained no injury.

SUPREME COURT.

352

Rich et al. v. Lambert et al.

5. It did result from the salt which was on board between
decks.
6. The evidence is not, when properly examined, contradictory, but if so, it preponderates against the appellants.

Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from a decree of the Circuit Court of the
United States, held in and for the District of South Carolina in
admiralty.
The several libels were filed in the District Court, against the
ship Martha, by the owners of cargo brought in the same from
Liverpool to Charleston, for damage done to the goods in the
course of the voyage.
Five of the separate owners of cargo joined in one of the
libels, and each of the others filed separate libels; to each of
which answers were put in by the respondents, and the parties
proceeded in the usual way to take their proofs. Pending the
proceedings, all the cases were consolidated by an order of the
court on the motion of the proctors for the libellants.
The District Court held the respondents liable, as carriers, for
the damage done to the goods; and referred the cases to the
clerk to take the necessary proofs, and ascertain the loss which
each of the several parties had sustained, and report the amount,
which was done accordingly. And, in the coming in of the
report, a decree was entered adjudging to each of the fifteen
several owners the amount of the loss they had respectively sustained.
On an appeal by the respondents to the Circuit Court, this
decree was affirmed. And the cases are now before us on an
appeal to this court from that decree.
With the exception of two of the cases, the sum decreed
against the respondents in favor of the -several owners of the
cargo is below the amount that authorizes an appeal to this
court. - And, it is insisted, on the part of the appellees, that the
appeal should be dismissed for want of jurisdiction as tu all
parts of the decree, except the part relating to the two cases
mentioned.

.

On the part of the appellants, it is contended, that the objection to the juriscliction is not available to the five separate owners joining in the libel, as the aggregate amount decreed to
them exceeds, two thousand dollars; nor to any of the parties,
on the ground that all the cases were consolidated by-the orders
of the District Court on the motion of the proctors for the libel.
lants.
We are of opinion that neither of these grounds are sufficient
to maintain the jurisdiction, and that the appeal must be dis-

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

353

Rich et al. v. Lambert et al.

missed as to all the cases except the two in each of which the
amount in the decree exceeds the two thousand dollars.
The joining of several owners of cargo conveyed in the same
ship in -a libel i& rem for damages done to the goods in the
course of shipment, and the consolidation of libels filed separately by the respective owners for like damage, is allowed by
the practice of the court for its convenience, and the saving of
time and expense to the parties. It is a practice deserving comnendation and encouragement in all cases where it can be
adopted without complicating too much the proceedings, and
thereby prejudicing the rights of the parties.
In cases where the several claims against the ship are founded
upon a common injury and loss, the questions involved depending upon the same general rules of law, and the same evidence,
equally applicable to all of them, it is fit and proper that the
proceedings should be joint, either by'allo-wgig the parties to
unite in the libel, or by an order for consolidation, if separate
suits have been instituted.
The defence will usually be the same in all the cases; but, if
otherwise, the parties will not be prejudiced, as they may avail
themselves in the answers of any defence existing against either
of the several owners. For, although the proceeding assumes
the form of a joint suit, it is in reality a mere joinder of distinct
causes of action by distinct parties, arising out of a common
injury, and which are heard and determined, so far as the merits
are concerned, the same as in the case of separate'libels for each
cause of action. The same decree, also, is entered as in the
case of separate suits.
XVe do not perceive, therefore, any ground for a distinction as
to the right of appeal from a decree as entered in these cases
from that which exists where the proceedings have been distinct
and separate throughout. Clearly, a libellant could not have
appeal, unless his claim exceed two thousand dollars. Nor can
the respondent, upon the same principle, unless the amount
decreed against him in the particular case, exceeds that sunm.
The principle, in effect, we think, has been already decided in
this court. 6 Pet. 143; 8 Id. 11; 11 How. 522.
There is another preliminary question which it is necessary
to notice before proceeding to the merits.
Further evidence has been taken, on the part of the respondents, since the appeal to this court was entered, which is objected to by the appellants.
The act of 3d March, 1803, (2 Stat, at Large, 244) allows
additional evidence to be furnished by either party before this
court in cases of appeals in admiralty and prize causes. And
by the 27th rule of the court the evidence is to be taken under a
30 *

SUPREME COURT.
Rich et al. v. Lambert et al.

commission to be issued from this court, or from the Circuit
Court, under the direction of any one of the judges thereof.
The objection taken to the evidence is, that it does not appear
from the record that any order was obtained from either court
for the issuing of the commission. We have, however, before
us the commission itself, issued in the usual form by the clerk
of the Circuit Court, and in the execution of which both parties have joined. An order, therefore, must have been entered,
or, if not, it was waived by the act of the parties in suing out
the commission, and joining in its execution. For these reasons
we think the further evidence furnished to this court admissible.
This brings us to the merits of the case.
The different libels filed in the several cases are in form and
substance the same. And so are the several answers of the
respondents.
The libels charge that the ship Martha being at Liverpool on
the 6th $eptember, 1847, and bound on a voyage to Charleston,
the libellants caused to be shipped on board the same, divers
goods, wares, and merchandise, then in good order and condition, of gr, at value, &c., to be taken care of and safely delivered
in like good order-and condition, (the dangers and accidents of
the seas and navigation excepted,) they paying certain freight
therefor as per bills of lading. That afterwards, on or about the
twenty-first of the same month, the said ship, having on board
the said goods, set sail from Liverpool, and on the ninth November following arrived at Charleston, and soon thereafter delivered
the same to the said libellants.
That the said goods, wares, and merchandise were not taken
care of and safely carried and delivered according to the tenor
and effeot of the bills of lading; but, on the contrary, although
no damage accrued from any dangers or accidents of the seas,
or navigation, the said goods were so badly taken care of by the
said master, and the cargo of said ship, and particularly a quantity of salt on board thereof was stowed so improperly, that
through the neglect, and mismanagement of the master, the said
goods were greatly damaged, and great loss thereby sustained.
The answers of the respondents admit the taking on board of
the vessel the goods as stated in the libels; and allege, that she
was loaded with an assorted cargo in the hold and with sundry
sacks of LiVerpool salt between decks ; that the ship was sound,
stanch, and in every way well fitted and equipped for the voyage, and capable of carrying safely the cargo taken on board,
the dangers of the seas only excepted. That the cargo was well
and securely stowed and packed with proper dunnage, and according to the usage, and custom of the trade, by the master
and officers of the ship; that the hatches leading from the be-

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

355

Rich at al. v. Lambeit et al.,

tween-decks and the lower hold were well secured and calked,
wholly separating the one from the other. That the ship encoun.
tered several violent gales, and very boisterous weather during
her voyage, causing her to labor heavily, and straining her badly,
the sea at times breaking over her, so that she shipped a great
deal of water from leaks, and stress of weather, requiring the
constant use of the pumps, which were faithfully attended to,
anid every effort made to preserve the ship, and save the cargo
from damage.
The respondents further allege that inconsequence of theheavy
seas, and the leaking of the vessel, and the change of latitude
from a cold to awarm climate, the water shipped became heated,
producing steam, and a wet and damp atmosphere in the lower
hold, which no care or diligence, on the part of the master and
crew could have prevented; that this was the unavoidable result
of the dangers of navigation, and proceeded from the storms,
winds and waves; and not from any defect in the ship or want
of skill, care or diligence on the part of the master and hands,
and caused the damage to the goods complained of.
They further say, that the salt stowed between decks was
safely carried, and delivered dry and in good order at Charleston;
without being wet, or any evidence of drainage from the same
either upon the sacks, the dunnage, and matting upon which the
sacks were stowed, or upon the lower deck, through the seams
of which the drainage must have passed to.the goods in the
hold, if at all; and they deny that the. damage to the goods in
the hold proceeded from the salt thus stowed between decks.
The proofs in the case show, that a mixed cargo, consisting
of crates, and boxes of dry goods, and hardware, and a quantity
of bars of railroad iron, was stowed in the hold of the vessel, the
railroad iron placed at the bottord. And, that some twelve hundred sacks of salt were stowed between decks fore and aft the
main hatch of the lower deck. That she left Liverpool on the
21st September, 1847, and arrived at Charleston on the 9th) of
November following, after a passage of forty-nine days;7that
during the voyage she encountered on the first and second of
October two very violent gales, the vessel on the wind at the
time, causing her to roll heavily and the sea to break continually
over her, and to ship great quantities of water, so that it was
necessary to keep the pumps going most of the time while the
storm continued.
On opening the upper hatches a day or two after the arrival
of the vessel for the purpose of discharging the cargo, the salt
between decks was found dry and in good condition; and, after
the discharge of the same, no unusual vet or dampness appeared
upon the matting or dunnage upon which it was stowed, nor

SUPREME.COURT.
Rich et al. v. Lambert et al.

upon the flooring of the deck, nor any evidence of drainage from
the sacks of salt in any part of the between-de'cks. All the witnesses concur on this point who had the best opportunity of becoming acquainted with the facts; and whose connection with
the discharge of the salt precludes the possibility of mistake, including the port-warden present at the opening of the hatches, the
purchasers of the salt, the consignee, the stevedores, the inspector
of the customs, and the mate of the vessel4 Nor is there any
evidence in the case to the contrary.
On opening the hatches of the lower deck, leading to the hold
of the ship, which was about the 15th November, five or six days
after her arrival, great heat issued immediately therefrom, and
much dampness and vapor.were found to pervade this part of
the vessel; and on breaking the cargo and commencing the discharge, the greater portion of it was found seriously damaged.
The boxes of dry goods were found wet, or danmp, and stained
to a very considerable extent, and the hardware, and bars of
railroad iron, wet and badly rusted; and indeed, the whole cargo
throughout the hold more or less damaged. Drops of water, or
vapor, apparently formed from the heat and dampness of the
hold, or by drainage from above, were found pendant from the
seams of the under part of the lower deck, affording very satisj'
factory evidence of the immediate cause of damage to the cargo ;
but, leaving the question open to controversy as to the source
whence these indications proceeded; some of the witnesses, and
among them three of the port-wardens, testifying that these drops
proceeded from the drainage of the salt that had beer stowed
bet-ween decks, and others, from the heat and dampness of the
hold, aggravated by the quantity of sea-water shipped during
the storm, and stress of the vessel
We have already stated, that the libellarts charge in the several libels the damage to the goods to have been occasioned exclusively from the improper stowage of the cargo, and especially
of the sacks of salt in the between-decks over the goods in the
hold of the vessel. This is denied in the answers, and as the
recovery must be had, if at all, according to the allegations in the
pleadings, it is incumbent on the part of the libellants to maintain this ground by the proofs, in order to charge the respondents.
The real questions in the case therefore, are, 1. Whether or not
the respondents were guilty of neglect, and mismanagement in
the stowage of the cargo, and especially of the stowage of the
sacks of salt between decks ? And, 2. If they were, whether the
damage to the' goods in the hold of the vessel was properly attributable to this cause?
The goods-having been found to be damaged on the arrival

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

357

Rich et al. v. Lambert et al.

of the ship, and whidh must necessarily have accrued in the
course of the voyage, the burden devolved upon the respondenti
to show, in order to excuse themselves, that it was occasioned
by one of the perils of navigation within the exception in the bill
of lading. That burden they have assumed; and have shown
by nearly an inbroken current of testimony, that the conveyance
of the salt between decks, in a mixed cargo, was according to the
established custom and usage of the trade between Liverpool
and this country; and that it was vel stowed, and packed, and
secured with proper and sufficient dunnage.
This g-round, therefore, for charging the respondents with the
damage to the goods, entirely fails.
They have shown further, that the vessel encountered severe
gales and boisterous weather in the course of her voyage, during
which she labored heavily, the sea frequently breaking over her,
and much water shipped by stress of weather, so that it was
necessary to keep the pumps in constant operation to preserve
the vessel, and protect the cargo. Thus presenting a state of
facts, in connection with the condition of the hold, and appearance of the goods on th6 opening of the hatches, when the vessel arrived at her port of destination, that might well account for
all the damage by reason of the perils of the navigation.
It is to be observed also, that even assuming, according to the
thebry of the libellants, the damage was occasioned by the
drainage of the salt coming in contact with sea-water, if the
water was shipped from the violence of the storm, or stress of
weather, as there was no fault chargeable to the master as to the
place of stowage or as to the stowage itself, it is apparent, that
even in that aspect of the case, the damage would still be attributable to the perils of the seas, and not to the fault of the master
or ship.
In order to avoid these necessary conclusions the learned counsel for the libellants have sought to maintain upon the proofs,
that the seams of the lower deck were not properly calked, but
were open, so that the drain from the salt readily dripped through
ulpon the cargo in the hold; and, that conceding it to have been
properly stowed between decks, if the seams of the deck had
been tight, the damage would not have happened.
Assuming the facts to be true, as contended for in this proposition, the conclusion is admitted. But if the opening of the
seams was occasioned by the straining of the vessel in the storms
encountered during the voyage, and in favor of which view there
is much evidence in the court below, the respondents would still
not be answerable. The further proof taken on this appeal
would seem to remove all doubt on this Point that may have
previously existed.

858

SUPREME COURT.
Rich et al. v. Lambert et al.

That shows the ship, when about to sail from Liverpool, was
inspected by a competent ship-builder, and repaired; and among
other repairs, her lower deck was well calked and payed where
any defects were discovered, and put in good order. The fact,
therefore, that the seams were open on the arrival of the vessel,
if admitted, must have happened in. the course of the voyage,
and may be fairly attributable to the stonns she encountered.
But, it is not important to pursue this inquiry. For, the proofs
in the case show beyond all reasonable doubt, that the damage
could not have been occasioned by any drainage from the sacks
of salt between decks. We have already referred to the witnesses on this point, and need not repeat the evidence.
The salt was taken from the stores at Liverpool, and not from
lighters, and was dry when put on board, and also, when discharged at Charleston; and there was not the slightest indication of unusual wetness or dampness upon the sacks or the
matting and dunnage upon which it was stowed, or upon the
flooring or any part of the between-decks. On this branch of
the case there is no contrariety or discrepancy in the evidence.
And all the witnesses concur who speak on' the subject, and
common observation confirms their conclusion, that, if the water
came from drainage of the salt, so as to occasion the damage
to the goods, some traces of its effects would have been found
upon the sacks, and upon the mats and dunnage and deck of
the vessel.
The only ground urged for a contrary conclusion is an inference drawn from the fact that drops of water of a brackish taste,
indicating, as supposed, the presence of salt-in a'degree, beyond
that of sea-water, was found along the seams underside the
lower deck; and of salt in the concrete found upon.parts of the
cargo in the hold. From these circumstances alone, three of
the port-wardens out of four, expressed the opinion that the
damage must have been occasioned by the drainage of the salt
above, notwithstanding the decisive facts as to the condition of
the salt when put on board, and when discharged, and the absence of any traces of it in the between-decks.
Itwould be exceedingly difficult, if not impossible, to reconcile
this opinion with the facts of the case, even if there was no other
way to account for the circumstances stated, on which the opinion of the port-wardens was founded.
But when all of them may be accounted for as the natural, if
not necessary effect, of the presence of the quantity of sea-water
shipped by stress of weather in the course of the voyage, wetting
the cargo as the vessel rolled and labored during the storms
she encountered, producing great heat, and dampness in the hold,
we think the opinion altogether unsupported by the evidence.

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.
Rich et al. v. Lambert et al.

As to the appearance of salt in the concrete upon parts of the
goods, it is quite probable, that the water in the hold thrown
up the sides by the labor of the vessel in the gales may have
brought it in contact with the salt between her timbers, and
thus leaving traces of it upon the goods.
Most of the vessels that have been built for many years, particularly eastern vessels, are filled with salt between their side
timbers and outside and inside plank or ceiling, up to the airstreak, for the purpose of preserving the timbers, and preventing
them and the planks from shrinking. When water comes in contack with this salt either through the small openings below, or
air-streak above, or otherwise, the tendency of it is to settle
down in the space it occupies, by becoming more compact; and
*hen the ship makes water in the hold, and rolls heavily by
stress of weather, throwing the water up the sides, portions
of the salt may escape from the small openings below and pass
off along the water-way each side of the keelson to the wellpump. This, however, as is apparent, can happen rarely, if at
all except when the ship labors heavily after having shipped
much water in consequence of rough and boisterous weather.
The effect of the salt, from its inherent tendency to attract and
absorb moisture, is to tighten the seams of the ceiling, rather than
open them, and thus prevent any escape of the particles of salt
through them.
It has been suggested, that, assuming the presence of salt in
the hold may be properly accounted for in the way above stated,
this should be considered as evidence of fault in the ship, so as
to charge the respondents.
But in the first place, to permit the libellants to recover upon
this ground would be a departure from that upon which they
have chosen to place their right of action in the pleadings. That
is founded exclusively upon their improper stowage of the salt
between decks; and the proofs in the case, have been taken
with reference to the issue upon that allegation.
In the next place, there is no evidence before us of any defect or
fault in the vessel in respect-to the ceiling or other parts of her
connected with the process of thus salting the timbers. On the
contrary, the port-wardens, themselves, speak of the seams of
a
the ceiling as being tight and in good order.
The truth is, that all the cases proceeded below, on the part
of the libellants throughout, upon the allegation in the libels that
the damage was occasioned by drainage from the sacks of salt
between deck, where, as supposed, it was improperly stowed.
And the evidence in the record in respect to the condition of the
ceilings and other parts of the hold of the vessel, was mere icidental and casual, no point having been made in the proofs on
that subject.

360

SUPREME COURT.
Rich et al. v. Lambert et al.

We have already expressed our views upon this the main question involved in the case, and are satisfied, that the damage
could not have been occasioned for the cause set forth in the
libels; but happened from the perils of the navigation. We
will simply add, what was omitted in the proper place, that
nearly all the witnesses concur who speak on the subject, that the
goods in the hold were most damaged by wet and dampness at
the bottom, or lower tier, and diminishing in the advance to the
upper. And that in many instances, the boxes of goods, and crates
of hardware were wet, or very damp, and stained at the bottom,
and dry and sound on the top and sides, confirming the view
that the damage proceeded from below.
Our conclusion is, that the decree of the court below is erroneous, and must be reversed with costs, as t6 so much as
awards damages to T. Lambert & BrotLer, and to the South
Carolina Railroad Company, and that the proceedings be remitted to the court below with directions to enter a decree in
favor of the appellanis with costs; and as to the residue of the
decree the appeal is dismissed. for want of jurisdiction.
Mr. Justice DANIEL dissented.
This case is one of a class over which, according to my opinion, heretofore repeatedly expressed, the adlmiralty courts of the
United States have no jurisdiction under the Constitutioit It
is the case of a contract entered into upon land, that is, in the
city of Liverpool, to be fulfilled, partly, nay, chiefly on land;
that is, by the delivery of merchandise in the city of Charleston.
The remedy for the infraction of this undertaking, if any had in
reality existed, would have been an action in a court of common
law, upon the bill of lading, the written evidence of the undertaking of the carrier. In the exposition made by the court, of
the evidence, as explaining the origin and character of the injury
complained of by the libellants, I entirely concur.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States, for the District of
South Carolina, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is-now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by
Ahis court, that the decree of the said Circuit court in this cause,
be, and the same is hereby reversed witf\ costs, and that this
cause, be, and the same ii'hereby remanded, to the said Circuit
Court for further proceedings to be had therein in conformity to
the opinion of this court

