180

SUPREME

COURT.

Wilbur v. Almy.

relation to injunction-bonds. The, judgment of the Circuit
Court must be reversed, and a venire de novo awarded.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record, from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Louisiana, and was argued by counsel.
On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged
by this court, that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in
this cause be, and the same is hereby, reversed, with costs; and
that this cause be, and the same is hereby, remanded to the said
Circuit Court for further proceedings to be had therein, in conformity to the opinion of this court.

PELEG WILBUR, APPELLANT , V. SAMSON ALmY.

Where there were two trustees of the property of insolvents, and one of them ma4e
an assignment, but the other neither joined in it nor assented to it afterwards, the
assignment was void.

And in the present case, also, the assignee appears to have received an assignment of
the property only as security, until its profits should pay a debt due to him by the
insolvents.

That debt being extinguished, he has no right, as owner, to claim an

account of further profits from the holder of the property.

THis was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Rhode Island, sitting as a court of
equity.
The facts in the case are stated in the opinion of the court,
to which the reader is referred.
It was argued by Ar. Rockwell and Mr. ohnson for the appellant, and Mr. Bradley for the appellee. The following are
the points made by the counsel respectively, upon each of which
numerous references were made to the evidence in the record.
Points by the counsel for the appellant.
I. The assignment to the plaintiff, Almy, was void. Charles
Low and Thomas R. Hazard were the assignees of R. G. Hazard & Co., and the conveyance to Almy was made by R. G.
Hazard and R. G. Hazard & Co., and assented to by Thomas
R. Hazard alone, but was never authorized nor assented to by
Charles Low, the other assignee. 2 Story's Eq. Dig. 521, § 1280;
Ex parte Rigby, 19 Ves. 463; 1 P. Wins. 241; 3 Atk. 584;
Lewin on Trusts, 265; 1 Cruise's Dig. 455; Sinclair v. Jackson,
8 Cow. 543, 553- 554, 582-584.
II. The assignment to the plaintiff; Almy, of 9th March,

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

181

Wilbur v. Almy.

1830, was not an absolute assignment, either of the contract or,
of -the interest of the parties in the machinery. It was a conditional assignment to secure a debt, which debt has since been
paid.
III. Messrs. Low and Fenner owned one half of the contract
of R. G. Hazard & Co., with Lippitt, and of the interest in the
machinery; and as R. G. Hazard & Co. owned only the one
half, neither Almy nor their assignees could convey more .than
that half.
The record in the case of Hunt & Fenner v. Hazard & Co.,
furnishes conclusive evidence that Low & Fenner paid for, and
owned, one half of the contract and machinery.
The record, in that case, td show the fact of the payment and
the application of the amount, is clearly admissible and conclusive. 1 Stark. Ev. 183, § 57, 188, § 58, 189; Green v. Newr
River Company, .4T. R. 590; Floyd v. Brown, 1 Rawle, Rep.
121; March v. Pier, 4 Rawle, 273, 285; 4 Cow. & Phil. Ev. 1281,
n. b.; Adams v. Broughton, 2 Sfr. 1078; Curtis v. Grant, 6
Johns. 168; Livingston -u. Bishop, 1 Johns. 290; Farwell v.
Hilliard, 3' N. H. Rep. 318; Gilmore v. Carr, 2 Mass. 171;
Wrard v. Johnson, 13 Mlass. 148; Lechmere v. Fletcher & Co.,
1 C. & M. 623, 634,-635; 1 Greenl. Ev. 631, § 527; 2 Phil.
Ev. 3.
The fact that Low & Fenner owned one half -ofthe contract
and machinery, is also shown by the testimony of a number
of witnesses.
The plaintiff, therefore, receiving from the assigned of Hazard
& Co. only one half of the machinery, and not being authorized,
or purporting to'act for Low & Fenner, could n6t, in any event,
recover more than one half of the value of it.
"A part owner, who sues alone, is entitled to recover, unless
the defendant plead in abatemenit; but he cannot recover more
than the value of his own share." 3 Stark. Ev. 1165; 2 Phil.
Ev. ch. 15; 4 Cqw. & Phil. Ev. 229; Brown v. Hodges, 1 Salk.
290; 2 Wms. Saunders, (ed. 1825,) p. .36; Addison v. Overend,
6 T. R. 766, 770; 7 T. R. 279; Wheelwright v. Depeysfer, 1
Johns. 472, 485; Brotherson et al. v. Hodges et al. 6 Johns. 108;
Bradish v. Schenck, 8 Johns. 151; Rich v. Penfield, 1 Wend.
380; Gilbert v. Dickinson, 7 Wend. 449.
IV. R. G. Hazard & Co.,-and S. Almy, their successor under
the contract with Lippitt, have received the entire amount of
the cost of the machinery, either from Low & Fenner or Lip.
pitt; and neither of them, when this suit was brought, had any
interest in it.
V. The course pursued by the plaintiff not only shows that
he considered himself as havipg no further interest in the maVOL. XII.

16

'182

SUPREME COURT.
Wilbur v. Al-my.

chinery or contract, but precludes him from setting up such
interest, if he had any.
1. He concealed from Christopher Lippitt the execution of
the agreement between himself and Hazacrd & Co., although he
wrote to Lippitt the day after the execution of the agreement,
and although he had agreed to act as his agent and friend.
2. After the ejecution of the contract, he declares that he is
using the machinery to secure a debt, and when he ceases to
supply cotton to the mill, states that his debt is paid, and claims
no interest in, or lien on, the machinery; and from that time,
September 11, 1832, to 1836, he never sees the machinery, or
goes near the mill, nor communicates with Lippitt or any one
else, nor ever claims to be the owner of it, or to have any interest in it.
3. Although the machinery was conveyed by Lippitt to Wilbur and the other mortgagees, on the 8th -December, 1Q35, he
makes no claim of any kind in relation to it, until the 15th October, 1836, mote than ten months, when Hazard professes to
make a claim in his behalf. November 25, 1836, he makes a
demand for the machinery; and from that time to October, 1840,
.nearly four years, says and does nothing on the subject. He
then writes a short letter, and refers the defendant to Hazard,
and two years after files his bill.
Under these circumstances it operates as a fraud for the plaintiff to set up a claim to the ownership of-this machinery; he
has estopped himself, by his acts and declarations, from so
doing. Packard v. Sears, 6 Adol. & Ellis, 475, (33 E. C. L.
117); Gregg v. Wells, 10 Adol. & Ellis, 90 (37 E. C. L.); Bushnell v. Church, 15 Conn. 54, 406, 419, 420; Roe v. Jerome, 18
Conn. 153.
VI. The contract between Lippitt and R. G. Hazard & Co.,
which, it is claimed, created a lien on the machinery, never having
been recorded, does not, according to the laws of Connecticut,
give title to the machinery against a bond fide purchaser, mortgagee, or attaching creditor, the machinery having remained in
the possession of Lippi , and treated as his own during the time.
Swift v. Thompson, 9 Conn. 72; Mills v.v. Camp,
Conn. 450;
225;
Smith,144 Conn.
Kirland v. Snow, 20 Conn. 23 ; Patten
Tobey v. Reed, 9 Conn. 216; Talcott v. Wilcx et al. 9 Conn.
134; Pettibone v. Stevens et al. 15 Conn. 19.
1. The mortgage was made to secure several distinct, independent debts of a number of creditors residing in different
places, having no connection with each other; and there is no
claim in the bill, or proof, tending to show that any, except Pcleg -Wilbur and C. H. Lippitt, had any knowledge of the existence of any contract between Hazard & Co., and Lippitt, con-

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

188

Wilbur v. Almy.

cerning the machinery,- or are- in any manner chargeable with
notice.
2. The defendant, Wilbur, had not any notice of there being
any lien on the property when it was mortgaged to himself and
other creditors. He positively denies in his answer any notice
of the existence of any lien. He was aware of the existence of
a contract for manufacturing, and that Hazard & Co., made
advances to Lippitt.
:3.Even if the defendant, Wilbur, having notice of the existence of a contract between Hazard & Co., and Lippitt, were
chargeable with notice of the terms of the agreement, and of
the lien of Hazard &5Co. on the machinery, by the law of Connecticut, under the circumstances of the case, his rights as
mortgagee are not affected thereby. Swift v. Thompson, 9
Conn. 63, and other cases above cited.
VII. In the month of TMarch, 1836, Christopher Lippitt made
an assignment, under the insolvent laws of Connecticut, 'of his
interest in the machinery to commissioners; and on the 15th
October, 1836, they sold the equity of redemption in this. machinery to John W. Fanning, the purchaser of the equity of re-.
demption in the real estate. This conveyance was a valid one,
and conveyed the property, subject only to the mortgages which
were recorded, and was not subject any secret lien of Almy on
the machinery. Swift v. Thompson, 9 Conn. 63.
VIII. This machinery, subsequently to the mortgage to Wilbur and others, was attached by other creditors of Lippitt, and
the suits prosecuted to judgment. This attachment constituted
a Len on this property, which would not be affected by any
prior lien unrecorded. Neither did those creditors have any,
notice of any lien by Hazard or Almy.
IX. R. G. Hazard & Co., failed to perform their contract with
Lippitt. They assigned the contract, and their assignee refused
to furnish cotton and continue it.
This contract was an advantageous one to Lippitt to a far
greater amount than the balance claimed to be due to R. G.
Hazard & C., or Almy, under it.
X. The demand by Bailey, on behalf of Almy, of the 25th
November, ,1836, is not evidence of a conversion by Wilbur,
eveil if he were not entitled to hold the property as security for
his own debt.
1. Because he was bound to hold the property until the bonod
fide creditors, secured by mortgage without notice,'had received
the amount of their debts as above stated.
2. Because the commissioners, under the insolvent laws of
Connecticut, had received a valid conveyance of the machinery,
not subject to any lien by Almy. •

184

SUPREME COURT.
Wilbur v. Almy.

3. Because the property was at the time under attachment on
behalf of bond fide creditors, who subsequently obtained judgments
on their claims, and the property so attached was receipted to
the officer by Wilbur himself.
4. At the time when the demand was made, the machinery was
not in the possession of Wilbur, While Lippitt was in possession for Wilbur and other mortgagees, (27th October, 1836,) he
executed an agreement with John W. Fanning, by which he
surrendered the mill and machinery to Fanning, and to9k a lease
from-him. The possession of Lippitt was thus the possession of
Fann.ng.
There is no allegation in the bill that Wilbur was ever in the
possession of the machinery. The 6th interrogatory in the bill
is, " whether said Peleg Wilbur does not claim to be the owner
of the said property, or did not, on the 25th day of November,
1836; and if said Wilbur had sold or conveyed the same, when,
to whom, and .for how much."
XI. The statute of limitation furnishes a complete bar to this
action.
"The statite of limitation Is applied by courts of equity in all
cases when at law it might be pleaded." Coulson v. Walton et
al. 9 Pet 62, 82.
The mortgage of Wilbur and others was dated December 8,
1835; the bill was filed October 17, 1842.
1. The cause of action arose when Wilbur took possession of
the property on the 8th December, 1835, and the statute then
begins to run. 'He then'took possession for himself and his comortgagees, and claimed to hold it adversely, denying the right
of all others to the possession. Murray v. Burling, 10 Johns.
172; Bristol v. Burt, 7 Johns. 254; Reynolds v. Shuler, 5 Cow.
323; Hyde v. Noble, 13 N. H. Rep. 494.
2. If it did not commence at that time, it certainly did on the
15th October, 1836, when Hazard, at the time of the sale of the
commissioners, publicly, and in the presence of Wilbur, as the
agent of Almy, declared that Almy was entitled to the property
under a prior lien.
3. If these did not constitute a conversion, there is no evidence of conversion furnished by the demand and refusal of the
25th November, 1836, for the reasons before stated.
The demand and refusal furnish no evidence of a conversion,
if at the time Wilbur had not possession,' or if he had not the
right to relinquish it; nor if the person for whom the demand
was made had no right to the possession at the time. If, therefore, a-demand and refusal were necessary as the ony evidence
of a conversion, the action cannot be sustained.
XII: There was complete and adequate remedy at law.

DECEMBER TERE4, 1851.

185

Wilbur v. Almy.

The 16th section of the Judiciary Act (1 Stat. at Large,
82,) provides, "that suits in equity shall not be sustained in
eith~r of the courts of the United States in any case where plain,
adequate, and complete remedy may be had at law."
If the plaintiff has any claims at all, he could have enforced
them, as the assignee of the mortgage and machinery, by an action of trover. Montgomery v. Kerr, 1 Hill, S. C. Rep. 291;
Langdon v. Buel, 9 Wend. 80; Oliver's executors v. Palmer &
Hamilton, 11 Gill & Johns. 426.
XIII. If Wilbur is liable at all, he cannot be subject beyond
the amount received by him, of $407, or, at the most, for the
proportional amount which that sum bore to the entire amount
received by the creditors under the mortgage, and if Low and
Fenner owned one half the machinery, to only ong half the
amount.
The points raised by the counsel for the appellee were as follows:
I. The facts in this case give jurisdiction in equity.
1. The remedy at law was not plain, adequate and complete.
2. An account was necessary.
The ascertainment of damages involved necessarily the transactions between Lipritt and Hazard & Co.; and Lippitt and
complainant; and Lippitt and defendant with Hazard and Co.,
and with complainant, respectively.
3. If the complainant is to be considered in equity as a mortgagee or assignee of a mortgagee, equity alone had jurisdiction
to enable the mortgagor or his assignee to redeem or to foreclose
the mortgage.
4. If Almy had a lien on the property, a court of equity was
the proper forum to give him relief.
II. What is the true construction of the contract between
Lippitt and Hazard & Co.?
1. Is it a mortgage in the true meaning of that term ?
The essential characteristics of a mortgage are a debt or duty,
and an obligation to repay the debt or perform the duty secured
by a conveyance or assignment of some valuable thing. The
form is immaterial, but the obligation must clearly appear.
Here there is no obligation. A right or privilege is given, but
there is no corresponding duty to take the property and pay.
The Hazards were the purchasers, took the bills in their own
names, and were necessarily the general owners. He who pays
the money is the general owner-no matter in whose name the
conveyance is made. 2 Story Eq. § 1201, and notes.
Even if the bills had been in the name of Lippitt, it would
have made no difference. 1 Hill. Ab. 307, § 12-28, 382, § 42.
It was not a joint purchase.
16 *

1868

SUPREME

COURT.

Wilbur v. Almy.

2.- How did the parties themselves understand it? This is
admissible evidence. 1 Hill. Ab. 273, 274. Neither of the parties treated Lippitt individually as debtor.
See R. G. Hazard, dep. 56. "1His understanding at the time of
the contract was that R. G. Hazard & Co. were to be absolute
owners of the machinery, but C. Lippitt had a right to become
the owner and to require a title from R. G. H. & Co. on performidg certain conditions." Again, in 1830, when he was proposing -to sell to Lippitt, he says: "I reminded him of his obligation under the contract to buy at a certain price. He argued
that machinery was then low, and he would give me as mucli
for it as it was then worth." Again, " I afterwards told Lippitt
he must regard S. Almy as the owner.
So as to Lippitt, &c., in 1828 he insured $6,000 on the machinery belonging to R. G. Hazard & Co., and in 1829, to Hazard's assignees. In his application for insurance he says "the
buildings and fixtures belong to me, and the machinery to R. G.
Hazard & Co." In his own deposition he says "the assignees
of R. G. Hazard & Co. proposed to sell me the interest they had
in the niachiriery." In his letters to Almy he proposes to Almy
to buy it from the assignees, by which he would save some
$3,000, or to assist him in purchasing.
He had the privilege of becoming the owner, but was not
bound to exercise it.
The case of Conway's Executor v. Alexander, 7 Cranch, 218,
237, and 8, 9, is in point both as to the general principle and
the admissibility of extrinsic circumstances to determine whether it was a mortgage or not. It was not a mortgage in the
ordinary meaning of that term.
III. It was a contract for a special and limited partnership,
-by which the ownership of the machinery remained in the Hazards until it shduld be paid for out of half the earnings of the
factory, or in some other mode appointed in the contract.
1. It is an executory contract.
2. A contract for the employment of capital put in by either
party, for the service of both parties, and for a division between
the parties of the profits to be made out of such capital and services.
Lippitt gives the use of his mill, water privilege, &c.
Hazard, the. use of the machinery.
Both, their services.
3. To the world they were partners, and the property used in
the business was liable; with each other it was separate pro-

perty.
4. Neither party could convey or burden the partnership property for his private debt; nor could legal process for a sepqrate
debt affect it.

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.
Wilbur v.

187

Almy.

5. The possession of one partner could not alter these principles.
6. The assignment by Hazard & Co. to the complainant of
their contract, which was communicated to Lippitt by R. G.
Hazard, and the continuance by Lippitt of the business after
such assignment and notice, made Almy a partner, with the
same rights, duties, and liabilities.
7. These rights continued till the partnership business was
settled.
To third point we cite Rogers et al. v. Batchelor et al. 12 Pet.
221, 229, 230, 231, &c.; Ex parte Hamper, 17 Ves. Jr. 403, andAmer. notes by Sumner; Story's Part. § 27, pp. 37-42.
In this view the assignment by Lippitt to defendant was void,
with or without notice.
The statutes of fraud and enrolment do not apply. It is not
a conveyance by a man who has the title and retains a possession inconsistent with the deed, but a possession by a man consistent with the rights of the true owner, a lawful possession.
IV. But if it is a mortgage or a lien, as collateral security, to
be treated in equity as a mortgage, the defendant is not a bond
fide purchaser without notice, and having notice, he must redeem
or account for the property.
The evidence of this knowledge will be found in his answer.
lie knew that half the profits of that mill could not have
amounted to $10,000 up to December, 1835.
He knew the facts. He was bound to know the law. Either
there was a partnership, and he could not buy from one partner;
or he knew the machinery was held as collateral security, and he
was bound to inquire how that account stood.
Again; on the 2d December, 1835, R. G. Hazard went to see
Lippitt, at the request of Almy, to get a settlement, Lippitt
declined; same day he left. He returned in 'the spring, told
Wilbur of the cause of his abrupt departure, and that " lie knew
he had no more right to take that machinery from C. Lippitt in
payment of his debt than he would have had to take Samson
Alry's pocket-book, if he had left it in the keeping of Lippitt."
He did not deny the charge.
Notice may be expressed or implied. "Whatever is sufficient
to put a party upon inquiry, (that is, whatever has a reasonable
certainty as to time, place, circumstances, and person,) is in
equity held to be good notice to bind him." 1 Story's Eq. § 400;
and see § 39, and notes to both sections; Buck v. Holloway, 2
J. J. Marsh. 176; Hardy v. Summers, 10 Gill & Johns. 317;
Hoxie i,. Carr, 1 Sumn. 172.
Where a party has knowledge of the facts, he has notice of
the legal consequences resulting from those facts. The Ploughboy, 1 Gall. 41.

SUPREME

COURT.

Wilbur v. Almy.

It affects the conscience of the party. Smith v. Shane &
Morgan, 1 McLean, 27. Notice of such facts as with ordinary
diligence will lead to a knowledge of an outstanding equity, is
sufficient. Hinde et al. v. Vattier et al. 1 McLean, 118; 2
Powell on Mort. ch. 14, p. 562; 2 Eden, R. 224; 2 Sch. & Lef.
315, 328; 2 Situ. & S tu. 372, 380.
Independent of the evidence, Wilbur, in his answer, admits,
first, lie knew of the contract; second, that Hazard purchased
the machinery; third, they were to be paid for it out of one half
the profits.
He knew it had not been paid for at the time of their failure.
Almy claims under them; Wilbur claims under Lippitt; he is
bound by the knowledge of the facts, and purchased with notice.
V. The statute of limitation is not a bar.
1. The right of action accrued 25th November, 1836; action
brought 17th October, 1842-less than six years.
2. Wilbur went. into acLual possession, he says, 8th December,
1825, in his own right, and as agent and attorney of some of his
co-mortgagees, yet the use and custody was not changed, nor
did he set up a claim till demand and refusal.
3. 'His custody and that of Lippitt was consistent with the
complainant's right till the demand and refusal.
4. The notice given by Hazard, 15th October, 1836, was
notice to purchasers at that sale of an unrecorded lien, known
-to Wilbur. Wilbur did not purchase. Wilbur did not set up
any claim to the possession of, or right to, the machinery. The
sale was subject to prior existing equities.
- VI. The excaptions to the master's report were properly overruled.
1. The first and second exceptions depend on the admissibility of the record found at p. 196, 197, and 198, in a case io
which neither Almy nor Wilbur was a party. See 16 Pet..
331, 332.
2. The third exception assumes, that Almy is entitled to
recover only what he paid the Hazards. We refer to the contract itself, and the letter of Lippitt.
. 3. The fourth exception sets up a pro ratascale of diminished
value. We rely first on the masters report.
The value is to be proved,
First. By an estimate of persons who never saw it.
Second. By those who have seen it, examined, or u, ed it.
Third. By the rents or products.
1st. Except Lippitt, no one of the witnesses of Wilbur ever
saw it; and Lippitt says it was worth about $2000. Yet he
himself said, in 1830, it was worth about $8000; insured it in
1836 for $65C0; and when it was insured in 1844, the insurance
4.ompany paid $3500.

DECEMBER TERM,
Wilbur v.

1851.

Almy.

2d. Complainant's evidence is mainly from persons who had
seen it, examined it, or used it. Phillips, worth two4hirds; A.
Fenner, had seen it, worth one half; J. Fenner, had rented it,
worth two thirds; Isaac Thompson, made an inventory of, and
examined'it, about two thirds; Alfred Ladd, hired it, value vtwo
thirds; E. Manton's estimated value, two thirds, insurance company.
8d. The rents or product. A. Fenner, J. Fenner, E. S. Williams, MIanton, Ladd. The result is, that this mill rented at a
rate which put the value of the machinery at about $7000.
4. The fifth exception is, that the master would not permit
the defendant to contradict his answer.
1st. He could not have so amended it; a fortiori he could not
disprove it. Rule 60, Sup. Ct.; 7 Gill & Johns. 389; Greenwood v. Atkinson, 4 Sim. 61. This would essentially have
changed the ground of defence, and the whole issue. West.
Res. Bank v. Ryker, 1 Clarke, 380; 2 Bland, 261, note.
No amendment can be allowed, unless the plaintiffwill be
left in the same situation as before. Jackson -v. Parish, 1 Sim.
505; Daniel, 916, 917. Nor after the crs'se is set down-for
hearing. 4 Russ. 486.
5. The sixth exception is wholly unsupported by proof.
VIL It was not objected, in the court brtow, tlat the assignment of machinery To Almy was void.
In the bill, complainant states that he purchased from the
assignees of said Hazard & Co. all the interest which'said R. G.
Hazard & Co. and the said assignees had in the said contract
with said Lippitt, together with all their interest in said machinery &c. (p. 6). It is not denied, or in any manner put in issue
by the pleading. or answer. It is in proof, that Low assented
to the whole machinery being put into the hands of Almy; and
that R. G. Hazard was the agent of the assignees.
The assent of Low would bind him as trustee. 2 Story's Eq.
§ 1281 to 1284; 4 Kent's Com. 307; Monell v. Monell, 5 Johns.
Ch.296; Willis on Trus. 194-196; Hewittv. Foster, 6 Beav. 259.
Mr. Justice CURTIS delivered the opinion of the court.
Samson Almy filed his bill in the Circuit Court of the United.
States for the District of Rhode Island, stating that one Christopher Lippitt, on the-7th day of IMarch, 1828, entered into a'
contract in writing with Hazard & Co., the effect of which was
to.create an equitable moltgage on certain machinery for the
price thereof advanced by Hazard & Co., who were to supply
Lippitt with cotton, receive and sell the cloth, allow him three
and a half cents per yard for manufacturing, and redit half the
profits towards paying for the machinery, retaining the other

190

SUPREME COURT.
Wilbur v.

Almy.

half for their own services and the interest on the cost of the
machinery. The bill further states, that in May, 1829, Hazard
& Co. failed in business and transferred all their property to
Thomas R. Hazard and Charles Low, in trust for the benefit of
their creditors; and that on the 9th of Mlareh, 1830, the complainant purchased of the assignees their interest under the contract with Lippitt, by a written instrument of sale, of that date,
a copy of which, annexed to the bill, is as follows:
The assignees of R. G. Hazard & Co. hereby sell and convey
to Samson Almy the right, title and interest which they have to
a certain contract with Christopher Lippitt, bearing date March
(3d mo.) 7th, 1828, (a copy of which is hereto annexed) together
with the balance due from said Lippitt on account of payment
for machinery, as expressed in said contract; also theii right,
title and interest, to the machinery held as collateral security for
the said balance due from said C. Lippitt agreeable to the
aforesaid contract, a schedule of which is hereto annexed, for
which Samson Almy agrees to pay them (the said assignees) or
account with them for the sum of five thousand dollar8; and it
is further agreed, that if Low and Fenner should redebm their
one half of the aforesaid contract by the payment of the drafts
drawn upon them by R. G. Hazard & Co. on account thereof,
and to retun one half of the aforesaid five thousand dollars to
said Samson Almy, he relinquishing to said Low and Fenner
all claims upon the aforesaid one half part of the said contract.
Providence, 3d month 9th, 1830.
For assignees of R. G. Hazard & Co.
R. G. HAZARD,
R. G. HAZARD & Co.,
Witness: A. E. Forbush.
SAmsoN ALM1Y.
Whereas, R. G. Hazard, for the assignees of R. G. Hazard &
Co., has made an agreement with Samson Almy, bearing date
8d month 9th, 1830, relative to contract existing between Chris.
topher Lippitt and R. G. Hazard & Co., dated March 7th, 1828,
and of the machinery held by them as collateral security, by
debts due from Christopher Lippitt and drafts drawn on Low
and Fenner, I hereby ratify and confirm the above agreements
the same as if made by myself as assignee of R. G. Hazard
& Co.
South Kihgston, 3d month 10th, 1839.
THoMAs 1. HAZARD, Assignee.
Witness: Robert Rathbone.
The bill further states, that from the time of the failure of
Hazard & Co. till his purchase from the assignees, the complainant supplied Lippitt with cotton, pursuant to the original con-

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.
Wilbur v. Almy.

tract between Hazard and Co. and Lippitt, having agreed with
the assignees so to do; that after his purchase from the assignees
he continued to supply cotton to Lippitt, till September, 1832,
when Lippitt refused to receive more; that in August, 1831, he
also furnished to Lippitt a speeder, which cost five hundred and
fifty dollars; that in September, 1832, when Lippitt'ceased to
receive cotton from him' there was due upon the mortgage the
sum of five thousand four hundred and five dollars , for
which sum he then had a lien on the machinery; that Lippitt
transferred the machinery to Wilbur, the defendant, with notice
of the complainant's rights, and after the complainant had
demanded the machinery of Wilbur, the latter sold it and
refuses to account. The bill prays for an account of the value
of the machinery, and that Wilbur may be decreed to pay to the
complainant, out of the sum found to be its value, the money
due upon the mortgage, including the amount of the advance
made by' the complainant to purchase the speeder.
The cause was heard in the Circuit Court, on the bill, answer,
and evidence, and a final decree made in favor of the complainant; and thereupon the respondent appealed to this court.
The title of the complainant, as a purchaser from the assignees
of Hazard & Co., not being admitted in the answer, it is obvious
that proof of the assignment to him is indispensable. The bill
alleges it to have been made by the written instrument, a copy
of which has been given. By reference thereto, it appears to
have been executed by R. G. Hazard, for the assignees. R. G.
Hazard is examined as a witness by the complainant, but does.
not state that he had any authority from the assignees to act for
them in this behalf, nor is there any evidence of such authority
in the record.
His act is ratified in writing by Thor. as R. Hazard, one of
the assignees. This is not sufficient. Trustees must unite to
pass any title to property jointly held by them. Exparte Rigby,
19 Ves. 463; Sinclair v. Jackson, 8 Cowen, 54G, 583; .Kirby v.
Turner, I Hopkiis, 309; 2 Story's Eq. § 1280; Willis on Trustees, 136. The previous authority or subsequent assent of Low
must be shown.
It is urged that, though Low, the other assignee, did not
sign the paper, nor ratify Hazard's act, by any writing, he did,
by acts bipais.
There are reasons why very clear proof of such ratification
should be required in this case. The first is, that the bill itself
states no such ratification. It relies on the written paper alone,
and does not suggest that after the execution of the paper, one
of the assignees ratified the transfer, by acts in pais. But
another, and more important reason, is, that this transaction

19

SUPR]RE

COURT.

Wilbur v. .&lmy.

between Alpmy and R. G. Hazard, who undertook to act for the
assignees, was not in accordance with the trusts, on which the
assignees held the property. The nominal consideration of the
transfer to Almy was five thousand dollars; the real consideration was a debt due to Almy from Hazard & Co. at the time
they became insolvent, and the purpose of the transfer to Almy
was to prefer that debt. This, neither H-azard & Co. nor the
assignees, had a right to do. And the proof should be very
clear, to induce the court to declare that a trustee has ratified,
or acquiesced in, a breach of his trust, amounting to a fraud on
the other creditors of Hazard & Co., whose rights he was bound
to protect, We do not find such proof in the record. There is
-no evidence tending to show that Low was ever informed of the
true nature of the transaction between R. G. Hazard and Almy,
or had knowledge that the purpose of those parties was to give
a preference to Almy's claim. And, consequently, if he had
acquiesced in or even expressly ratified the transfer, while ignorant of its real character, it would have been open to him afterwards to have disaffirmed it. But it is not shown that Low did
acquiesce in, or ratify the act of R. G. Hazard. The complainant put in evidence certain letters from Low to Lippitt, which
have an important bearing on this part of the case. They are
as follows:
PROVIDENCE, 6th February, 1832.
DEAR SiR: Yours, dated four days since, is just at hand.
Contents noted. With regard to the contract, I am as desirous
to have it adjusted as you, and am ready to attend to it at any
time you may name. It will be necessary for you to take an
account of what cotton, yarn, cloth, &c., you have on hand.
You stated that Mr. Hazard informed you that he had purchased
the contract of the assignees. That is not the case. I have
made no disposition of it
CHARLES Low, Assignee.
PROVIDENCE, October 26, 1832.
Mr. Christopher Lippitt, Sir: Having been notified by you
that you wish to close up the contract under which you have
been manufacturing, and to take the machinery, you paying the
deficiency of your half of the profits, you are hereby authorized
and requested not to receive any more cotton from Samson
Almy to manufacture under said contract, and to manufacture
what cotton you have on hand as soon as practicable. You are
requested also to render your accounts as soon as practicable,
and we will have the accounts of the profits prepared as soon as
practicable, with a view to a prompt and final settlement of the
whole business.

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

193

Wilbur v. Almy.

" Mr. Almy was never authorized to supply you with cotton
under the contract for his own account.
Respectfully, your obedient servant,
CiARLEs Low, for self and
T. R. Hazard, assigneefor R. G. Hazard 4- Co."
PROVIDENCE, Nov. 13, 1832.
"DEAR SIR: I should like to know if you are furriishing yourself with cotton and not receiving it from Mr. Almy, as you have
been heretofore. As for Rowland Hazard being my agent fo"
settling the business, he cannot produce any thing to show that
I ever empowered him to act for me in any one instance. I
shall call upon Mr. Almy within a few days and ask him for a
settlement.
Yours, &c.,
CHARLE S Low, Assignee for
B. G. Hazard 4. Co."

In these letters, Low not only denies R. G. Hazard's agency,
but Almy's right to supply cotton on his own account, and
declares, in so many words, that he has made no disposition of
the contract which created the mortgage, and Mr. Lippitt testifies that Low always told him R. G. Hazard never was appointed the agent of the assignees, and had nothing to do with their
business. It does not appear that up to the time when he wrote
the last of these letters, he was aware that Almy was supplying
cotton to Lippitt by reason of an assignment of the contract to
him. It does appear that he knew Lippitt received cotton from
Almy under the contract; but this he had done for nearly a year
before Almy took the assignment of the contract, by virtue of
an arrangement between Almy, Lippitt, and the assignees of
Hazard & Co. as the bill itself states; and, notice of the discontinuance of that arrangement is not brought home to Low,
until after Almy had ceased to supply cotton to Lippitt. The
acquiescence by Low in Almy's acts of furnishing cotton, under
the contract, is not therefore referable to an assignment of the
contract to Almy, and still less does it amount to a ratification
of such an assignment as the assignees were not able to make
without a breach of trust.
If it were necessary therefore to decide the case upon this point,
we.must hold that Almy has failed to show a valid title from the
assignees. But we are of opinion that independent of this defect in his title, the bill cannot be maintained.
It has already been stated that Almy did not purchase this
mortgage, but took an assignment of it ior the purpose of obtaining payment of a debt, which Hazard & Co. owed him at
the time of their failure. This is proved; and at the same time
VOL. XII.

1.7

194

SUPREME COURT.
Wilbur v. Almy.

it is shown that when he ceased to furnisa cotton to Lippitt, in
September, 1832, his debt was paid. Chistopher H. Lippitt
testifies:
" I did conversd with Samson Almy, at different times, while
he was stocking the mill, in relation to the interest he had in
doing so. He said the only interest he had in furnibhing stock
for the mill-was to get a debt to him from R. G. Hazard & Co.;
that he did not care to continue the business after said debt was
paid, and that after that it made no difference to him who
stocked the mill, whether my father or anybody else. I told Mr.
Almy that if it would be any damage to him for my father to
stop receiving stock from Iiim, that he might still continue to
furnish the mill. Mr. Aimyreplied that it would be no damage
to him, and that my father had better stock the mill himself, as
he, Mr. Almy, had got his debt, and more too. Subsequent to
my father's furnishing the mill, Mr. Almy gave him, a letter of
recommendation to a house in New York, for the purpose of
aiding him in purchasing cotton. He did state that he had no
further interest in having the mill run for him, as he had secured
his debt as I stated in my answer to the previous cross interrogdtory. £Te said it was a matter of indifference to him
whether the mill and machinery was run any longer for him, or
not, but that he would run it for my father's benefit, if so desired." Christopher Lippitt also testifies : "At the time I stopped
manufacturing for Afr. Almy, we had some conversation about
furnishing cotton. Mr.Almy says, that, if I were in your place,
I wouldn't manufacture for them any longer, they are all bankrupt, you don't know who you are manufacturing for. I observed to Mr. Almy that, if I stopped receiving cotton from you,
won't it be an injury to you? He said, no, not in the least, for
I think I've got my pay, and more too. I then observed to
him, that probably I might stand in need of some assistance
from him, if I commenced on my own account; he promised to
render me all the assistance that he well could, give me some
recommendations and introductions, where I might buy cotton.
Afterwards, some time in the year 1834, he gave me introductions to go to New York to buy cotton. I stopped by the advice
and consent of M\r. Almy. The letter he gave was addressed to
Messrs. Jenkins, Merrick & Co., New York; I was also advised
by Mr. Almy to send my goods to them for sale, and I did send
most of my goods to them in future, accordingly. I never heard
him say that he had any lien or claim on the machinery whatever. He said the contract between me and R. G. Hazard &
Co. was placed in his hands by them for the purpose of getting
a debt that R. G. Hazard & Co. owed him, or that he had become obliged or bound to pay for them."

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.
Wilbur v. Almy.

There is nothing to control this evidence except the testimony
of R. G. Hazard. He says, "S. Almy, the only probable purchaser, to whom it seemed safe to sell, objected on account of
apprehension of difficulty with Low and Fenner, but by promis.
ing my personal services in the subsequent management of the
business, and obligating myself by some other conditions, I prevailed upon him to make the purchase."
This is far too vague an account of the consideration and
terms of the sale to be relied on to control the explicit declarations of Almy, and the inferences to which his conduct gives
rise.
I This conduct tends to show he had only a conditional interest
in the property and that his interest had terminated. He not
only ceased to supply cotton in 1832, declaring, at the same
time, that his debt was paid, and he had no longer any interest
in the matter, but he suffered Lippitt to run the machinery, and
treat it as his own, until his failure in December, 1835, when
Lippitt conveyed it to Wilbur and others. It rested in their
hands until November, 1836, when Almy demanded it of Wilbur. Nothing more appears to have been done or said by him
in reference to the property, till October, 1840, when he-wrote
the following letter:
"I'OVIDENcE,

"PEVLEG

10th month 23d, 1840.

WILBUR,

"1Respected Friend: I have consulted counsel respecting the
claim I have against thee, and have made up my mind to commence a suit immediately, unless there is a settlement. If thee
would like to see lIr. Hazard, he will be in town on the 26th
instant.
"Thy friend,
"SAMSON

ALmy1"

Two years more elapsed, making ten years, from the time
when he ceased to have any thing to do with the machinery.
This bill was then filed, and R. G. Hazard is very active in the
management of the suit, as he says, by reason of an understanding between Almy and himself, when the assignment was made.
This understanding must have been included by him in that part
of his testimony, where he speaks of promising his "personal
services in the subsequent management of the business, and obligating himself by other conditions ;" and, if one of those conditions was that Almy took the transfer, by way of security, and his
debt had been paid, it is quite consistent with Almy's real relation to this property that he should lie by ten years, and when
he moved that R. G. Hazard should be active also.

196

SUPREME

COURT.

Wilbur v. Almy.

But we find another piece of evidence in the record, to which
it is proper to advert. It is the examination of Almy before themaster upon the subject of his title, in which he has undertaken
to give what he calls "the history of the whole matter." It is
as follows:
"In reply, I must give you the history of the whole matter.
In 1829, I think, I made arrangement with Rowland G. Hazard,
Low & Fenner, and Christopher Lippitt, to fumnish stock to
Christopher Lippitt under the contract made by R. G. Hazard
& Co., and Christopher Lippitt, they agreeing to give me one
half of the profits for doing the business. We went on in that
way, until I made the purchase of the machinery, after which I
became sole owner and went on under the contract. At the time
of R. G. Hazard & Co.' failure, they owed me five or six thousand dollars, due by note, and the consideration of the contract
or bill of sale was those notes, so far as they were required; that
is, the agreement was that that bilof sale, so far as it went,
should go to cancel these notes. The notes thus cancelled, it is
my impression, were surrendered to R. G. Hazard, as agent for
the assignees. I can't say that Alr. Hazard acted as agent of
the assignees when I surrendered the notes to him: he did when
the contract was made. I can't remember when I surrendered
the notes to Mr. I, nor how many of them there were. I could
ascertain, if time were allowed."
This is perfectly explicit, except on ohe point, and that is,
whether the transfer to him was an absolute sale, extinguishing
the notes, or by way of collateral security for the notes. A close
examination of his statement will tend to show it to have been
the latter.
He says, "the consideration of the contract, or bill of sale, was
those notes, so far as they were required; that is, the agreement
was, that that bill of sale, so far as it went, should go to cancel
those notes."
But, if the consideration of the sale was the extinguishment
of the notes, what is meant by its extinguishing them, so far as it
went ? This language is intelligible, if the agreement was that
he should work out his debt through this contract with Lippitt.
In such case, the bill of sale might be said to extinguish the notes
so far as it went; that is, so far as it should prove to be eflectnal for that purpose. And this construction is much strengthened by the fact that he does not profess to have surrendered
any of the notes at or about the time when the transfer was
made to him, and there is no reason to believe he did so before
his debt was paid. Taking this statement of Almy, in connee.
tion with his repeated declarations to the Lippitts and his conduct in reference to this property, we cannot doubt that the trans-

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

197

Erwin v. Parham 6t al.

fer was made solely to enable him to obtain payment of these.
notes by means of the contract with Lippitt, and that payment
was thus obtained.
Other questions have been made in the case, which we have
not found it necessary to decide. Our opinion is that the decree
of the Circuit Court should be reversed and the bill dismissed
with costs.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
Rhode Island, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by this
court, that the decree of the said Circuit Court in this cause be,
and the same is hereby, reversed, with costs; and that this cause
be, and the same is hereby, remanded to the said Circuit Court
with directions to dismiss the bill of complaint with costs.

ANDREW ERWIN, APPELLANT, V. WILLIAM' S. PARHAM, JAMES
DICK, AND HENRY R. W. HILL.
Where a bill in chancery states that, at an execution sale, which was alleged to have
been open and fir, the complainant purchased, for the sum o'.Q6,00, certain promri-oy notes secured by mortgage. amounting in the whole to $260,000, and the bill
was demurred to, and die demurrer sustained by the Circuit Court, this judgment
must be reversed.
Mere inadequacy of price does not, of itself, furnish a sufficient reason for dismissing
the bill, or deciding that the complainant was entitled to no relief whatever.

Tnis was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Louisiana, sitting as a court of
equity.
It came up upon a demurrer to a bill filed by Andrew Erwin,
which demurrer was sustained by the court, and the bill dismissed with costs. -The facts set forth in the bill, arranged in
chronological order, were as follows:In the year 1839, James M. Wall, a citizen of the State of
Mississippi, appears to have been in possession of two plantations in Louisiana; and on the 16th of November, in that year,
sold them, together with the stock and slaves upon them, to
William S. Parham, for a sum amounting very nearly to $300,000. Of this consideration, 35,200 were in cash, and the residue in thirteen promissory notes, each for the sum of $20,369.23,
payaule on the 1st of January, 1842, 1843, 1844, 1845, 1846,
171,

