DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

299

Cooley v. Board of Wardens of Port of Philadelphia et al.

Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record, from the Court of Appeals of the Western Shore of the
State of Maryland, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court,
that the judgment of the said Court of Appeals in this cause
be, and the same is hereby, reversed, with costs; and that this
cause be, and the same is hereby, remanded to the said Court
of Appeals, in order that such further proceedings may be had
therein, in conformity to the opinion of this court, as to law
and justice may appertain.

AARON B. COOLEY, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. THE BOARD OF
WARDENS OF THE PORT OF PHILADELPHIA, TO THE USE OF THE
SOCIETY FOR THE: RELIEF OF DISTRESSED PILOTS, THEIR WIDOWS AND CHILDREN, DEFENDANTS.
SAME V. SAME.
A law of the State of Pennsylvania, that a vessel which neglects or refuses to take a
pilot shall forfeit and pay to the master -warden of the pilots, for theuse of the Society for the relief of Distressed and Decayed Pilots, their widows and children, one
half the regular amount of pilotage, is an appropriate part of a general system of
regulations on the subject of pilotage, and cannot be considered as a covert attempt
to legislate upon another subjdct, under the appearance of legislating on this one.
Nor can the exemption of American vessels engaged in the Pennsylvania coal-trade
from the npeessity of paying half pilotage, be declared to be other than a fair exercise of legislative discretion, acting upon the subject of the regulation of the pilotagg-of the port of Philadelphia.
The law of Pennsylvania is, therefore, not inconsistent with the second and third
clauses of the tenth section of the first article of the Constitution of the United
States. Imposts, and duties on impu, ts, exports, and tonnage, were understood,
when the Constittiltion was formed, to mean totally distinct things from fees of pi.
lotage.
Nor is the law repugnant to the first clause of the eighth section of the first article of
the Constitution, because, as the charge is not a duty, import, or excise, there is no
necessity for its being uniform throughout the United States.
Neither is the law repugnant to the fifth clause of the ninth.section of the first article
of the Constitution; because it neither gives a preference of one port over another,
nor does it require avessel to pay duties.
Upon this point the act of Congress, passed in 1789, (1 Stat. at Large, 54,) recognizing the pilot-laws of the States, is entitled to great weight, a' showing that these
laws neither levied duties nor gave a preference of one port over another.
Moreover, the law is not inconsistent with the third clause of the eighth section of
the first article of the Constitution.
It is true that the power to regulate commerce includes the regulation of navigation,
and that pilot-laws are regulations of navigation, and i therefore, of commerce,
within the grant to Congress of the commercial power.
But the mere grant of the commercial power to Congress, does not forbid the States
from passing laws to regulate pilotage. The power to regulate commerce includes
various subjectsi upon some o which there should be a uniform rule, and upon

300

SUPREME COURT.

Cooley v. Board of Wardens of Port of Philadelphia etal.
others different rules in different localities. The power is exclusive in Congress in
the former, but not so in the latter class.
Although Congress may legislate upon the subject of pilotage throughout the United
States, yet they have manifested an intention not to overrule the State laws, except in one instance. The law of Pennsylvania, not being overruled, is not repugnant to the Constitution of the United States.

THEsE two cases were brought up from the Supreme Court
of Pennsylvania, by writs of errori issued under the twenty-fifth
section of the Judiciary Act.
They both depended upon the same principle, were argued
and decided together, and will be treated as one. The only difference between them was, that the pilotage was demanded'from
two different vessels, the Undine and the Consul. Cooley was
the consigniee of both vessels.
The twenty-ninth section of the act passed by the Legislature of Pennsylvania on the 2d of March, 1803, is set forth at
length in the opinion of the court and need not be repeated.
The board of wardens brought an action of debt before Alderman Smith, against Cooley for half-piotage, due by a vessel
which sailed from Philadelphia without a pilot, when one might
have been had. The magistrate .gave judgment for the plaintiffs, and the defendant appealed to the Court of Common
Pleas.
In that court, a declaration in debt was filed by the plaintiff
below. In the case of the Undine, the defendant demurred, and
upon the demurrer, judgment was given for the plaintiff.
In the case of the Consul, the defendant put in two pleas.
1. That the Consul was engaged in the coasting trade, sailing under a coasting license from the United States.
2. That the said schooner was bound ftom the port of Philadelphia, in the State of Pennsylvania, to the port of New York,
in the State of New York.
To both of which pleas there was a demurrer and a joinder in
demurrer, and a judgment for the plaintiff.
The case was then carried to the Supreme Court of :Pennsylvania, which, in January, 1850, passed the folowing judgment:
That "the judgment of the Court of Coninon Pleas for the
city and county of Philadelphia be affirmed, because this 'court
is of opinion that the twenti . inth section of the act of the
State of Pennsylvania, of th'e 29th of March, A. D. 1803, entitled An act to establish a Board of Wardens for the port of
Philadelphia, and for the regulation of pil3ts and pilotages, and
for other purposes therein mentioned, is not in any of its provisions involved in this cause, at variance with any of the provisions of the Constitution or laws of the United Stater, but
is a constitutional and legal enactment."
Cooley then brought the case up to this court.

DECEMB4R TERM, 1851.

301

Cooley v. Board of Wardens of Port of Philadelphia et al.

It was argued by Mr. M1orris and Mr. Tyson, for the plaintiff
in error, and by Mr. Campbell and- Mr. Dallas,for the defendants.
For the plaintiff in error, it was contended that the law of
Pennsylvania was unconstitutional and void, because.
1. It is repugnant to the first and third clauses, eighth section,
first article of the Constitution of the United States.
The first clause declares that all duties, imposts and excises,
shall be uniform throughout the United States; and the third,
that Congress shall have power to regulate commerce with
foreign nations, and among the several States.
Upon the first clause we argue, that the constitutional uniformity enjoined in respect to duties and imposts, is as real and
obligatory on the States in the absence of all legislation by
Congress, as if the uniformity had been made by the legislation of
Congress. The twenty-ninth section of the act of Pennsylvania, of 29th March, 1803, in question, and the second section of
the act of June 11th, 1832, overthrow every thing like uniforfility.
No penalties, then, imposed by either of these acts can be
binding.
Upon the third clause we argue, that the power to regulate
commerce is exclusive in Congress.
2. It is repugnant to the second clause of the tenth section
first article of the Constitution of the United States, to wit: "1No State shall, without the consent of Congress, lay any imposts, or duties, on imports or exports, except what may be absolutely necessary for executing its inspection laws, and the net
produce of all duties and imposts laid by any State on imports
and exports shall be for the use of the treasury of the United
States." And to the subsequent branch of the same clause,
which declares, " No State shall, without the consent of Congress, lay any duty on tonnage."
The present case resembles Brown v. the State of Maryland.
12 Wheat. 419. There the tax was exacted for the privilege of
selling. Here for the privilege of introducing or sending away.
The defendant in this case is the consignee, the merchant.
This is, in reality, a tax upon imports. Judge Grier, Norris v.
The City of Boston, 7 How. 458, 459. It is a tax upon those
engaged in the business of importation, arising out of their posi.
tion as importers.
It is a tax for a particular purpose, the support of a hospital
for decayed pilots. If the State can appropriate the funds to
this purpose, she can appropriate them to any other, - a general
hospital for mariners, or an alms-house for indigent foreigners.
If the right be once admitted, and she choose, she can make
'VOL. XII.

26

302

SUPREME COURT.

Cooley v. Board of Wardens of Port of Philadelphia et al.

the tax so high as to exclude covimerce altogcther. She can
exclude all vessels not engaged in particular trades.
If this is a tax or duty, which we think is clearly shown, it is
a tax or duty on tonnage, and, therefore, contrary to the second
clause, tenth section, first aiticle of the Constitution of theUnited
States: "No State shall, without the consent of Congress, lay
any duty on tonnage."
This is a duty on a tonnage of seventy-five tons or more, and
increases with the increased draught of water. The same power
might increase the duty or tax, varying it with the increased
tonnage.
It may be said that Congress has consented, by the act of 7th
August, 1789, section 4, "That all pilots in the bays, inlets, rivers, harbors, and ports
of the United States, shall continue to be regulated in conformity
with the existing laws of the State, respectively, wherein such
pilots may be, or with such laws as the States may respectively
hereafter enact for the purpose, until further legislative provision
shall be made by Congress." The act of Congress 2d March,
1837, 5 Stat. at Large 153, is a repeal of the part of the act of
1803 now in question.
But this act of Pennsylvania which we object to, is not an
act to regulate pilots. It is an act to raise a fund for the support of decayed pilots.
We answer further: Congress may adopt State legislation
when within constitutional limits, no dou.bt; yet it cannot be,
that by general legislation of this kind, they can prospectively
confer upon the States powers not given by the Constitution, or
enable individual States to legislate on subjects clearly within the
powers of Congress, and to support that legislation even against
subsequent acts of Congress upon the same subject.
The Chief Justice, in speaking of this act in the license cases,
5 Howard, p. 580, says:
"Undoubtedly Congress had the power, by assenting to the
State laws then in force, to make them its own, and thus make
the previous regulations of the States'the regulations of the General'Government. But it is equally clear, that, as to all future
laws by the States, if the Constitution deprives them of the power
of making any regulations on the subject, an act of Congress
could not restore it; for it will hardly be contended that an act
of Congress can alter the Constitutiony and confer upon a State
a power which the Constitution declares it shall not possess."
All that has been said applies equally to the case of the Consul. In addition to which we set up by plea, 1. The coasting license.

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

303

Cooley v. Board of Wardens of Port of Philadelphia et al.

2. That she was bound from one port in the United States,
to another port in the United States.
Let it be granted that the power to regulate commerce is not
so exclusive as to prevent State legislation, in the absence of
legislation .by Congress.
Yet Congress having legislated, so far as regards coasting
vessels, by the act of 18th Feb., 1793, sect. 4, the Pennsylvania act of 29th March, 1803, sect. 29, wfhich is in conflict
therewith, is unconstitutional and void, so far as it relates to coasting vessels. 4 Smith's L., 76; 1 Stat. at Large,
305.
To make out these propositions, we argue,
First, That pilot-laws are regulations of commerce, within
the meaning of the Constitution of the United States.
Second, That the act of 'Pensylvania is no exception to the
general rule.
Third, That the act of Congress, 18th Feb., 1793, sect. 4, has
regulated the navigation of coasting vessels, and limited the
exactions to which vessels so employed can be subjected.
1. Regulations of navigation are regulations of commerce
and within the jurisdiction .of Congress.
"Commerce is intercourse. The power to regulate commerce
extends to the regulation of navigation." Per Chief Justice Marshall, .Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 189 ; see Id. 191, 192, 193.
Again, - Mr. Justice Johnson, Id. 229, says, "When speaking of the power of Congress over navigation,'] do not regard it as a power incidental to that of regulating commerce; I
consider it as the thing itself; inseparable from it, as vital motion is from vital existence."
This power comprehends navigation within the limits of every
State in the- Union. Id. 107. , Norris v. The City of Boston,
and Smith v. Turner, 7 How. 414, 415, 462.
Pilotage laws are regulations of navigation. They prescribe
the terms of commercial or maritime intercourse. - They take
possession of the vessel as she appears upon the coast, or as soon
as she leaves the wharf.
Clearly stated by Chief Justice Taney, License Cases, 5 How.
580. By Judge Rodgers, Flanigan v. The Insurance Company, 7 Barr. 311.
Congress has exercised the jurisdiction, and it has never been
questioned. Act of Congress, 7th August, 1789, sect. 4, adopting the State laws then in force. 1 Stat. at Large, 53. Act
of Cengress, 2d March, 1837, c. 22, sect. 1, authorizing a navigator of waters, bounding two or more States, to employ
a pilot duly authorized by either; any law or usage of the contrary notwithstanding. 5 Stat. at Large 153.

304

SUPREME

COURT.

Cooley v. Board of Wardens of Port of Philadelphia et al.

2. The act of Pennsylvania, 29th March, 1803, (in question,) is no exception to the general rule, but is a clear regulation of commerce.
It cannot be considered as an act to regulate the port police.
The very terms of the act forbid it being so considered.
The act is confined to vessels arriving from, or bound to foreign ports or places, and to vessels of seventy-five tons and upwards, sailing from, or bound to ports not within the river
Delaware. Its principal force is expended without the port.
Suppose the obligation to take a pilot to be a regulation of
port police.
This act cannot-be so considered, because it does not insist
on the pilot being employed, but suffers the parties to compound
by paying a certain sum for the support of an institution which
may1 or may not be a good one. Its operation is that of a
scheme to raise revenue for a particular purpose. The character of a police regulation is assumed and fallacious.
By the act 11th June, 1832, Pam. Laws, p. 620, vessels engaged in the Pennsylvania coal trade are exempt fror- half
pilotage. An invidious distinction in fator of a particular
branch of commerce, which shows The character of the whole
legislatioh.
3. Congress has legislated upon the subject by the act
18th Feb. 1793, sect. 4; 1 Stat. at Large, 305. .The State law is
at variance with this act, and must give way.
This section-makes it the duty of collectors in their districts,
on application made and the fulfilment of certain conditions,
(the duty of six cents per ton being first paid,) to grant a license
for carrying on the coasting trade.
This act of Congress was passed by virtup of the power to
regulate commerce, and declares the, terms upon which vessels
shall be entitled to a coasting license.
The license gives a right to trade, and does not merely confer the American character.
"The enrolmdnt of vessels designed for the cobsting trade,
corresponds precisely with the registration of vessels designed
for tie 'foreign trade, and requires every circumstance which
can constitute the American character. The license can be
granted only to vessels already enrolled, if they be of the burden
of twenty tons and upwards, and-requires no circumstances essential to the .American character. "The object of the license, then, cannot be to ascertain the character of the vessel,
out to do what it professes to do ; - that is, to give permission
to a vessel, already proved by her.'eprolment to be American,
to carry on the coasting trade." Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat.
214.

DECEMBER TERM, 1,851.

1 305

Cooley v. Board of Wardens of Port of Philadelphia et al.

The license to carry on the coasting trade, granted under this
act, transfers to the licensed vessel all the right which the government can, transfer, and limits the impositions with which
such a trade may be burdened. Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat.
210, 211, 212, 213, 214, &c.
This'is the main point ruled in Gibbons v. Ogden, and is unshaken, and of immense importance. The question arose on an
act of the State of New York, giving to the heirs of Fulton,
and those having license from them, 'the exclusive right to navigate the waters of New York by steam for a period of ten
years.
The owners of two steamboats plying between New Jersey
and New York, having a coasting license from the United States,
cbntested the validity of the State act, and insisted upon their
rights under their coasting license.
Decree in Gibbons v. Ogden.
"This court is of opinion that the several licenses to the
steamboats, the Stondinger and fhe Bellona, to carry on the
coasting trade, which are set up by the appellant, Thomas Gibbons, in his answer to the bill of the respondent, Aaron Ogden,
filed in the Court of Chancery in the State of New York, which
were granted under an act of Congress, passed in pursuance of
the Constitution of the United States, gave full authority to those
vessels to navigate the waters of the United States by iteam or
otherwise, for the purpose of carrying on the coasting trade, any
law of the State of New York to the contrary notwithstanding;
and that so much of the several- laws of the State of New York,
as prohibit vessels licensed according to the laws of the TUnited
States, from navigating the waters of the State of New York,
by means of fire or steam, is repugnant to the said Constitution,
and void."
In our case, instead of purchasing a license from the heirs of
Fulton, we 'are required to purchase a right of navigation by
paying a tax to the State, or, what is the same thing, to an institution created by the State.
The decision in Gibbons v. Ogden has never been in the least
degree questioned or shaken. Inferences, drawn from some expressions of the court in that case, which were supposed to
imply that the States could not legislate on matters affecting
commerce, even in the absence of any exerci e of their powers
by Congress, are disavowed by perhaps a majoity of the judges
in the License Cases in 5 Howard. But the principle of the decision in Gibbons v. Ogden, upon which we rely, was not in the
smallest degree inpeached. On the contrary, it is expressly
26 *

806

SUPREME COURT.

Cooley v. Board of Wardens of'Fort of Philadelphia et al.

adopted. Any -other rule would be fatal to the peace of the
country.
The 29th section of the act of the 29th March, 1803, is repugnant to the 5th clause of the 9th section of the 1st article of the
Constitution of the United States, to wit: "No preference shall
be given, by any regulation of commerce or revenue, to the ports
of one State over those of another; nor shall vessels to or from
one State, be obliged to enter, clear, or pay duties in another."
The Consul was bound from the port of Philadelphia to the
port of New York; and under this act was required to pay the
duty, tax, or toll in dispute.
A preference is given to the ports of Delaware, and to such.
ports of New Jersey as are within the river Delaware.
The counsel for the defendants in error contended that the
law of Pennsylvania was not in violation of Yny provision of
the Constitution.
ILNot of the third clause, 8th section, art. 1 (To regulate
commerce, &c.)
Because,-lst. The act in question is no regulation of commerce. It v as passed in the exercise of a power of the State
not granted or surrendered, to control the ports and harbors by
which her commerce enters, and to protect the property and lives
of those engaged in it. Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 208., It
is local in character and object, an essential exercise of one
branch of the police power of the State, to aid, and not to regulate commerce. City of New York v. Mtln, 11 Pet. 132; Passenger Cases, 7 How. 402. 2d. Even if it be a regulation of
commerce, the power of Congress is not exclusive. No conflicting legislation by Congress exists, and the State law is
therefore valid. License Cases, 5 How. 504.
II. Nor to the first clause, 8th section, art. 1. (All duties, imposts, and excises, shall be uniform, throughout the United

States.)
Because,-lst. This claus has reference to an exercise of
power by Congress. The subject of pilotage is incapable of
ormity throughout all the States, and could not have been
intended to be included in it. Passenger Cases, 7 How. 402;
2d. The sum demanded is not a duty, impost, or excise, in terms
or in design. Brown v. State of Maryland, 12 Wheat. 419;
License Cases, S How. 504. It is a compensation to the. pilot
for time,'watchfulness, labor, and risk in seeking for the vessel
and offering his services. Commonwealth v. Ricketson, 5 Met.
417, (Shaw, C. J.) 3d. Nor is there any such constitutional obligation upon the States, in the absence of legislation by Congress, to legislate uniformly as to duties, imposts, or excises, (as
is submitted by brief of plaintiff in error.)

DECEMBER

TERM, 1851.

307

Cooley v. Board of Wardens of Port of Philadelphia et al.

IIL Nor to the first and the second clause of the 10th section,
art. 1. (No State shall, without the consent of Congress, lay
any imposts or duties on imports or exports, &c., or of tonnage.)
If the law in question does regulate commerce at all, it is
contended, that it does so by the means specified in these
clauses. But they do not affect it,Because,-lst. The sum demanded is neither a duty or impost on imports or exports, (already referred to,) nor a duty of
tonnage. Nor does Brown v. The State of Maryland, 12 Wheat
419, apply to the case, for it was decided upon the ground that
a duty upon imports was laid without the consent of Congress.
Here there is no duty (as already contended) nor impost charged,
and Congress has consented, by act of 1789, (next referred to,)
and of act of 1837. Nor is it material that the defendant is the
consignee; if the power exist to require payment of the sum
demanded, the person by whom it is to be paid, whether captain,
mate, owner or consignee, is immaterial. It is no more or no"
less a duty upon imports or tax of tonnage, if it be either,)
-whether paid by or chargeable upon eithe.-2d. If it be either,
or both, Congress have consented to its being laid. Act of Congress, 7th Aug. 1789, 1 Stat. at Large, 53; Id. 2d March, 1837,
5 Stat. at Large, 153.
Congress may,-lst. Adopt State legislation. Gibbons v.
Ogden, 9 Wheat. 207; Passenger Cases, 7 How. 402; License
Cases, 5 How. 580,- 2d. Where the authority is given by the
Constitution, consent to the exercise of State power. The extract from the opinion of the Chief Justice is misapplied; it was
addressed to the question of the exclusive power of Congress to
regulate commerce, and not to the authority given by the Constitution to consent to the laying of imposts or duties on imports or exports or on tonnage by the States. Such consent
may either be by adoption of existing, or by the grant of authority to make future laws,- 3d. If the sum demanded be a duty
on imports or on tonnage, the act in question does not transcend
the consent given, and is properly part of a system for the regulation of pilots.
A reference to the European codes, as well as legislation by
the States, .will show this.
I. European. - 1st. Hanseatic Ordinances, (about A. D. 1457,)
ch. 25. Captain to take pilot under penalty ("amend ") of one
mark of gold (11. 486.) .- 2d. Maritime Law of Sweden, (about
A. D. 1500.) Captain to take a pilot, and if he neglects to do
so, shall pay one hundred and fifty thalers, one third to the
informer, one third to the suffemer ("plaignans") or pilot offering,
and one third to' the poor mariners. (Cap. 7, 11. 172.) - 3d.
Maritime Law of Du Pays Bas. Captain to take pilot, under

SUPREME COURT.
Cooley v. Board of Wardens of Port of Philadelphia et al.

penalty of fifty reals, and be responsible for any loss to the vessel.
(Cap. 24, tit. 9, IV. 83.) -4th. Maritime Law of France. Ordinances Louis XIV. (A. D. 1681,) ch. 26. If the mariners.refuse
a pilot, they shall suffer corpoi al punishment, and the one who
tenders himself must be employed. And provides also for the
examination of pilots by competent persons. (IV. 395.) Moreover, they who are engaged in navigating royal vessels into
ports or rivers have not the option of taking or refusing a pilot;
in the same case merchant vessels are required to take pilots,
under the penalty of fifty livres, to be applied to the Marine
Hospital, and the repairing of any damage from stranding.
(Art. 5, tit. 1, livre II. ordinance bf April, 1689. See Repertoire
de Jurisprudence, tome 9, p. 236.) - 5th. England, (A. D. 1716,)
3 Geo. I. ch. 13. A penalty of £20 if piloted by any but a licensed
pilot, to be received for the use of superannuated pilots, or the
widows of pilots.
The obligation on the captain to take a pilot or to be responsible for the damage, and punishment of pilots for negligence,
will also be found in, -lst. Roman Law Digest, book 19, tit.
2, Edict Ulpianus. I. 110.- 2d. Laws made at Oleron. I. 232.
-3d. Consulate de la Mer. II. 250.- 4th. Maritime Law of
Denmark. III. 262. (Pardessug)
IL The United States.- Afs in which provision, more or less
extensive, is made for payment of a sum when no pilot is taken.
1st. Massachusetts: Act 1783, ch. 110, sects. 4, 6, 7, 10; Rev.
Sts. 295.-2d. New York: Act Feb. 19, 1819, sect. 20.-3d.
New Jersey: Digest published 1847, p. 1054.-4th. Delaware:
Act 5th Feb. 1819; Acts published by authority, 1829, p. 433.6th. Maryland: Act November Sessions, 1803; 1 Dorsey, 483.7th. Virginia: 10th Feb. 1820; 15th Feb. 1820;" Revised Code,
123, 515; Supplement to Id. p. 386; Code 1849, p. 432.-8th.
North Carolina: Rev. Sts. 1836-7, p. 461, vorl. -9th. South
Carolina: Trott's Laws, 613; 2 Coopers Stat. at Large, pp.
51, (1690,) 127 (1617,) 173.-10th. Georgia: Act 6th Dec. 1799,
sect. 8.- 11th. Alabama. - 12th. Louisiana: Act 31st March,
1805; Lislets Dig. 1828, p. 511.- 13th. Pennsylvania: Act
Province of Pennsylvania, 6 Geo. 3, ch. 5, passed Feb. 8, 1766.
(Copy of material sections annexed, No. 2.) Continued and
supplied in some details by intervening acts, in all of which provision is made for payment in case no pilot is taken, and act of
29th March, 1803. (The law in question.) By State judicial decisions it is also so regarded as part of a system for the
regulation of pilots. And the laws have been acted upon as a
valid exercise of State power, either inherent or concurrent, or to
which Congress had given consent. Commonwealth v. Ricketson, 5 Met. 416; 8 Met. 329; 9 Met. J71; 12 Met. 346; 13
Wend. 64; R. M. Charlton, 307.

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

803

Cooley v. Board of Wardens of Port of Philadelphia et al.

These laws having then the consent of Congress, and not exceeding the power of Congress, are to be regarded as though
passed by Congress.
IV. Nor is the act in question repugnant to the 5 th clause of
the 9th section of the 1st article. (No preference shall be given,
by any regulation of commerce or revenue, to the ports of one
State over those of another; nor shall vessels bound to or from
one State be obliged to enter, clear, or pay duties in another,)
Because, - 1st, the clause refers to the power of Congress (and
the right to pass such laws remains, as already submitted, with
the States.) Nor is the act, as contended, a regulation of commerce or revenue. - 2d. The law does not (from whatever fountain of power derived) give a preference to the ports of one State
over those of another; it limits the demand to those cases where
the labor, skill, and risk of the pilot is really required; nor would
such preference, if it exist, render the residue of the law invalid.
-3d. The sum demanded is not a duty which vessels, bound to
or from one State to another, 'ze obliged to pay.
V. Nor does the act of Congress (18th Feb. 1793, coasting
license; the Consul, No. 100) conffict with the law in question.
It is averred to do so, inasmuch as the act of Pennsylvania is
contended to be a regulation of commerce, and that by the law
relative to coasting vessels, Congress has legislated upon and
regulated theih navigation, aad by such legislation has exempted
them from the sum demanded.
But, 1st, - The act in question, as already submitted, is not a
regulation of commerce.-2d. Even if it be, the act of Congress,
Feb. 18, 1793, was not legislation upon, nor directed towards
the same subject-matter, and did not therefore exclude the inherent or the coexisting power of the States, nor affect the consent
given by the act of 1789.
The act of 1793 was intended either to give or to limit to certain
vessels, defined commercial privileges. If to give the right, it was
to enter and navigate the ports and harbors of the United States,
at a less tonnage-duty, and without the necessity of entry on every
voyage. If it was to limit a prexisting tight to trade, it licensed
such trade at less than the ordinary tonnage-duties, and relieved
from the necessity of entry at every voyage, as required of all
other vessels. Beyond this, nothing. It did not, in its policy or
by its words, affect or legislate in reference to harbor, nor health,
nor quarantine regulations, nor profess to interfere with pilotage,
nor repeal the act of 1789, nor revoke the consent it contained.
Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 208, does not sustain the position as contended for, that such vessels are discharged by virtue
of a coasting license, from liability to such regulations of police
or commerce (if any) which a State may enact, nor especially

SUPREME COUIRT.
Cooley r. Board of Wardens of Port of Philadelphia et al.

from such tonnage-tax or duty on imports (if this be either) as
Congress has consented that the State may establish.
Here, in effect, the question is between two acts of Congress,
one by enactment, and the other by adoption or consent, but of
equal authority. So regarding them, the provisions of the one
do not limit, contradict, or affect those of the other.
Nor is the act of Feb. 18, 1793, repugnant to the statute
in question', regarded as the act of Pennsylvania alone. Such
repugnance must be direct, and these acts are not even inconsistent. Pilots and their regulation, which include an examination as to their competency, their licenses, their rewards and
their punishments, form the subject of the State law.
The encouragement of a particular brancl of commerce, its
regulation, the privileges conferred, and the penalties for infractions, are the subject of the act of Congress; the one aids, and
does not conflict with the other..
The only legislation by Congress upon pilots or pilotage,
since the act of 1789, is the act of 2d March, 1837. 5 Stat. at
'Large, 153. This was directed to "alter a single provision of the
New York lbw, leaving the residue of its provisions untouched."
Chief Justice Taney, 5 How. 580.
The provisions of the statutes of New York have been referred
to, and included in them coasting vessels above a certain tonnage. Stat. N. Y. Feb. 19, 1819;* Act Oct. 16, 1830; 13 Wend.
Rep. 64. And the laws of the other States referred to were then
in force.
-The act of 1793, as to coasters, was not regarded by Congress,
therefore, as being in conflict with an act requiring payment by
them of half-pilotage, nor as requiring any revocation of th&
consent already granted, or any further legislation.
The validity of these laws has been repeatedly, and, it is believed uniformly acknowledged by counsel and by the court,
wherever referred to, as justified either by the inherent or coexisting power of the State to regulate commerce, or under the
act of 1789. Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 18, 203, 207; New
York v. Miln, 11 Pet. 149 ;-License Cases, 5. How. 380, 383;
Passenger Cases, 7 How. 402, 470, 557.
Nor can the subsequent legislation of Pennsylvania, cited
by the plaintiffs in error, affect the question presented on these
records. The act of 1803 is alone before the cQurt; the recent
enactments may or may not be unconstitutional. When demands or exemptions are claimed in virtue of their provisions,
their validity will form a proper subject for consideration.
Nor is the manner in which the fund is distributed after its
collection material, The question is one of power merely, and
if the -sum demanded is justly, within its limit, and not. an

DECEMBER TERM,

1851.

311

Cooley v. Board of.Wardens of Port of Philadelphia et al.

attempted evasion, under its color, the purpose to which it is
applied, cannot make it more or less constitutional. If it was
directed to be paid to the pilot offering his services, or the
crew of his boat, it would not be more or less a valid enactment. Passenger Cases, 7 How. 495. The manner in which
it is appropriated does but show more clearly the true character
of the law.
MIr. Justice CURTIS delivered the opinion of the court.
These cases are brought here by writs of error to the Supreme
Court of the Commonwedlth of Pennsylvania.
They are actions to recover half-pilotage fees under the 29th
section of the act of the Legislature of Pennsylvania, passed on
the second day of larch, 1803. The plaintiff in error alleges
that the highest court of the State has decided against a right
claimed by him under the Constitution of the United States.
That right is to be exempted from the payment of the sums of
money demanded, pursuant to the State law above referred to,
because that law contravenes several provisions of the Constitution of the United States.
The particular section of the State law drawn in question is
as follows:
"That every ship or vessel arriving from or bound to any
foreign port or place, and every ship or vessel of the burden of
seventy-five tons or more, sailing from or bound to any port not
within the river Delaware, shall be obliged to receive a pilot.
And it shall be the duty of the master of every such ship or vessel, within thirty-six hours next after the arrival of such ship or
vessel at the city of Philadelphia, to make report to the masterwarden of the name of such ship or vessel, her draught of
water, and the name of the pilot who shall have conducted her
to the port. And when any such vessel shall be outward-bound,
the master of such vessel shall make known to the wardens the
name of such vessel, and of the pilot who is to conduct tlet to
the capes, and her draught of water at that time. And it shall
be the duty of the wardens to enter evety such vessel in a book
to be by them kept for that purpose, without fee or reward. And
if the master of any ship or vessel shall neglect to make such
report, he shall forfeit and pay the sum of sixty dpglars. And
if the master of any such ship or vessel shall refuse or neglect to
take a pilot, the master, owner or consignee of such vessel shall
forfeit and pay to the warden aforesaid, a. sum equal to the
half-pilotage of such ship or vessel, to the use of the Society for
the Relief, &c., to be recovered as pilotage in the manner hereinafter directed: Provided always, that -where it shall appear to
the warden that, in case of an inward-bound vessel, a pilot did

812

SUPREME

COURT.

Cooley z'. Board of Wardens of Port of Philadelphia et al.

not offer before she had reached Reedy Island; or, in case of an
outviard-bound vessel, that a pilot could not be obtained for
twenty-four hours after such vessel was ready to depart, the
-penalty-aforesaid, for not having a pilot, shall not be incurred."
It constitutes oie section of "An act to establish- a Board of
Wardens for the port of Philadelphia, and for the regulation of
Pilots and Pilotages, &c.," and the scope of the act is in conformity with the title to regulate the whole subject of the pilotage of that port.
. We think this particular regulation concerning half-pilotage
fees, is an appropriate part of a general system of regulations of
this subject. Testing it by the practice of commercial States
,and countries legislating on this subject, we find it has usually
been deemed necessary to make similai provisions. Numerous
laws of this kind are cited in the learned argument of the counsel for the defendant in error; and their fitness, as a part of a
system of pilotage, in many places, may be inferred from their
existence in so many different States and countries. Like other
laws they are framed to meet the most usual cases, quadfreq1tentius aceidunt; they rest upon the propriety of securing lives and
property exposed to the perils of a dangerous navigation, by
taking. on board a person peculiarly skilled to encounter or avoid
them; upon the policy of discouraging the commanders of
vessels from refusing to, receive such persons on board at the
proper times and places; and upon the expediency, and even
intrinsic justice, of not suffering those who have incurred labor,
and expense, and danger, to place themselves in a position to
render important service generally necessary, to go unrewarded,
because the -master of a particular vessel either rashly refuses
their proffered assistance, or, contrary. to the general, experience,
does not need it. There are many cases, in which an offer to
perform, accompanied by present ability to perform, is deemed
by law equivalent to performance. The laws of commercial
States and countries have made an offer of pilotage-service one
of'hose cases; and we cannot pronounce a law which does this,
to-be so far removed from the usual and fit scope of laws for
the regulation of pilots and pilotage, as to be deemed, for this
cause, a covert attempt to legislate upon another subject under
the appearance of legislating on this one.
• It is urged that the second section of the act of the Legisla,ture of Pennsylvania, of the 11th of June, 1832, proves that the
State had other objects in view than the regulation of pilotage.
That section is as follows:
"And be it further enacted, by the authority aforesaid, that
from and after the first day of July next, no health-fee or halfpilotage shall be charged on any vessel engaged in the Pennsylvania coal trade.".

DECEMBER TERM,

1851.

Cooley v. Board of Wardens of Port of Philadelphia et al.

It must be remembered, that the fair objects of a law imposing
half-pilotage when a pilot is not received, may be secured, and
at the same time some classes of vessels exempted from such
charge. Thus the very section of the act of 1803, now under
consideration, does not apply -to coasting vessels of less burden
than seventy-five tons, nor to those bound to, or sailing from, a
port in the river Delaware. The purpose of the law being to
cause masters of such vessels as generally need a pilot, to employ one, and to secure to the pilots a fair remuneration for
cruising in search of vessels, or waiting for employment in port
there is an obvious propriety in having reference to the number,
size, and nature of employment of vessels frequenting the port;
and it will be found, by an examination of the different systems
of these regulations, which have from time to time been made
in this and other countries, that the legislative discretion has
been constantly exercised in making discriminations, founded
on differences both in the character of the trade, and the tonnage of vessels engaged therein.
We do not perceive any thing in the nature or extent of this
particular discrimination in favor of vessels engaged in the coal
trade, which would enable us to declare it to be other than a
fair exercise of legislative discretion, acting upon the subject
of the regulation of the pilotage of this port of Philadelphia,
with a view to operate upon the masters of those vessels, who,
as a general rule, ought to take a pilot, and with the further
view of relieving from the charge of half-piotage, such vessels
as from their size, or the nature of their employment, should be
exempted from contributing to the support of pilots, except .so
far as they actually receive their services. In our judgment,
though this law of 1832 has undoubfedly modified the 29th section of the act of 1803, and both are to be taken together as giving
the rule on this subject of half-pilotage, yet this change in the
rule has not changed the nature of the law, nor deprived it of.the
character and attributes of a law for the regulation of pilotage.
Nor do we consider that the appropriation of the sums received under this section of the act, to the use of the society
for the relief of distressed and decayed pilots, their widows and
children, has any legitimate tendency to impress on it the character of a revenue law. Whether these sums.shall go directly to
the use of the individual pilots by whom the service is tendered,
or shall form a common fund, to be administered by trustees for
the benefit of such pilots and their families as may stand in
peculiar need of it, is a matter resting in legislative discretion,
in the proper exercise of which the pilots alone are interested.
For these reasons, we cannot yield our assent to the argument, that this provision of law is in conflict with the second
VOL. xlr.

27

SUPREM.E COURT.
Cooley v. Board of Wardens of Port of Philadelphia et al.

and third clauses of the tenth section of the first article of the
Constitution, which prohibit a State, without the assent of
Congress, from laying any imposts or duties, on imports or exports, or tonnage. This provision of the Constitution was intended to operate upon subjects actually existing and well
understood when the Constitution was formed. Imposts and
duties on imports, exports, and tonnage were then known to the
commerce of a civilized world to be as distinct from fees and
charges for pilotage, and from the penalties by which commercial States enforced their pilot-laws, as they were from charges
for wharfage or towage, or any other local port-charges for services rendered to vessels or cargoes; and to declare that such
pilot-fees or penalties, are embraced within the words imposts
or duties on imports, exports, ot tonnage, would be to confound
things essentially different, and which must have been known to
be actually different -by tho~e who used this language. It cannot be denied that-a tonnage-duty, or an impost on imports or
.,exports, may be levied under the name of pilot-dues or penal.
ties; and crtainly it is the thing, and not the name, which is
to be considered. But, having previously stated that, in this
instance, the law complained of does not pass the appropriate
line which limits laws for-the regulation of pilots and pilotage,
the suggestioni that this law'levies a duty on tonnage or on imports or exports, is not admissible; 3nd, if so, it also follows, that
this law is not repugnant to the first clause of the eighth section of
the first article of the Constitution, which declares that all duties,
imposts, nd excises shall be uniform tlzroughout the United
States; for, if it is not to be deemed a law levying a duty, impost, or excise, the want of uniformity throughout the United
States is not objecti6nable. Indeed the necessity of conforming
regulations of pilotage to the local peculiarities of each port,
and the consequent impossibility of having its charges uniform
throughout. the United States, would be sufficient of itself to
prove that they could not have been intended to be embraced
within this clause of the Constitution; for it cannot be supposed
uniformity was required, when it must have been known to be
impracticable.
It is further objected, that this law is repugnant to the fifth
clause of the ninth section of the first article of the Constitution, viz.-' No preference shall be given by any regulation of
commerce or revenue, to the ports of one State over those of
another; nor shall vessels, to or fridm one State, be obliged to
enter, clear, or pay duties in another."
But, as already stated, pilotage-fees are not duties -within.the
meaning of the Constitution; and, certainly, Pennsylvania does
not give a preference to the port of Philadelphia, by requiring

DECEMBER TE:RMi,

1851.

31

Cooloy v. Board of Wardens of Port of Philadelphia et al.

the masters, owners, or consignees of vessels sailing to or from
that port, to pay the charges imposed by the twenty-ninth section of the act of 1803. It is an objection to, and not a ground
of preference of a port, that a charge of this kind must be
borne by vessels entering it; and, accordingly, the interests of
the port require, and generally produce, such alleviations of these
charges as its growing commerce from time to time renders consistent with the general policy of the pilot-laws. This State,
by its act of the 24th of March, 1851, ,has essentiaUy modified
the law of 1803, and further exempted many vessels from the
charge now in question. Similar changes may be observed in
the laws of New York, Massachusetts, and other commercial
States, and they undoubtedly spring from the conviction that
burdens of this kind, instead of operating to give a 'preference
to a port, tend to check its commerce, and that sound policy
requiri.s them to be lessened and removed as early as the necessities of the system will allow.
In addition to what has been said respecting each of these
constitutional objections to this law, it may be observed, that
similar laws have existed and been practised on in the States
since the adoption of the federal Constitution; that, by the act
of the 7th of August, 1789, (1 Stat. at Large, 54,) Congress declared that all pilots in the bays, inlets, rivers, harbors, and ports
of the United States, shall continue to be regulated in conformity with the existing laws of the States, &c.; and that this contemporaneous construction of the Constitution since -acted on
with such uniformity in a matter of much public interest and
importance, is entitled to great weight, in determining whether
such a law is repugnant to the Constitution, as levying a duty
not uniform throughout the United States, or, as giving a preference to the ports of one State over those of another, or, as obliging vessels to or from one State to enter, clear, or pay duties
in another. Stuart v. Laird, I Cranch, 299; Martin v. Hunter,
1 Wheat. 304; Cohens v. The Commonwealth of Virginia, 6
Wheat 264; Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania,
16 Pet, 621.
The opinion of the court is, that the law now in question is
not repugnant to either of the above-mentioned clauses of the
Constitution.
It remains to consider the objection, that it is repugnant to
the third clause of the eighth section of the first article. "The
Congress shall have power to regulate commerce with foreign
nations and among the several States, and with the Indian
tribes."
That the power to regulate commerce includes the regulation
of navigation, we eonsider settled. And when we look to the

816

SUPREME COURT.

Cooley v. Board of Wardens of Port of Philadelphia et al.

nature of the service performed by pilots, t: the relations which
that service and its compensations bear to navigation between
the several States, and between the ports of the United States
the
that
conclusion,
times
to the
we are brought
and foreignofcountries,
modes and
of the
of pilots,
the qualifications
regulation
responsibilities
the
of
services,
their
rendering
and
of offering
of
which shall rest upon them, of the powers hey shall possess, by
penalties
the
of
and
demand,
may
they
the compensation
constitute
•which their rights and duties may be enforced, do
within
commerce,
of
consequently
and
regulations of navigation,
Constitution.
the
of
clause
this
of
meaning
just
the
The power to regulate navigation is the power to prescribe
into the on.
must
navigation
wellbeascarried
it, as
in conformity with which conduct
rules
It extends to the persons who the rst Congress assembled
Accordingly,
struments used.
laws, requig the masters of
under the Constitution passed
States to be citizens of the
ships and vessels of the United
for the government
rles
many
United States, and established seamen. 1 Sta. at Large, 5,
and regulation of officers and to time added to and changed,
131. These have been from time
validity has been questioned.
and we are not aware that their
vessel
Now, a pilot, so far as respects the navigation of the the
is
plotage-ground,
in that part of the voyage which is his
and
vessel
the
of
safety
the
with
harged
temporary master
the
with
intrusted
cargo, and of the lives of those on board, and
engaged
persons
the
of
responsible
ne
only
and
not
is
of the crew.- He
command
a most important
in navigation, but he occupies
And f Congress has power
engaged.
thus
those
place among
piloT in the management
the
assist
to the seamen who
regulate
can perceive no valid
we
of the vessel, a power never denied,
reach of the same
the
beyond
be
should
reason why the pilot
of modern comusages
to the
power. It is rue that, according on board only during a pars of
is
merce on the ocean, the pilot
States, or
if he is on
butbetween~ports
different
betwen
countries;
voyage
thethe
foreign
and of'
Statesports
United
of
voyage as
the
during so much of
board for such a purpose and
navigation
regulate
to
power
to be engaged in navigation, the
as clearly as it would if he
engaged,
thus
While
him
to
extends
the whole passage, from
were to remain on board throughout
of
part in
extends
or assist
whichwho
a powerthose
cnduto t every
it isregulate
Formay
to por.and
port voyage,
in
the
as
much
as
oyage
a
of
part
conducting navigation in one
voyage.
another part, or during the whole th
is subject of the regulaof,
sight
lost
Nor should it be
connection with, and
e
an-itimate
t pilotpiotage has
tion of
subject of commerce wth
an important elation tor the general

DECEM1BER TERM,

1851.

317

Cooley v. Board of Wardens of Port of Philadelphia et al.

foreign nations and among the several States, over which it was
one main object of the Constitution to create aCnational control. Conflicts between the laws of neighboring States, and
discriminations favorable or adverse to commerce with particular foreign nations, might be created by State laws regulating
pilotage, deeply affecting that equality of commercial rights,
and that freedom from State interference, which those Who
formed the Constitution were so anxious to secure, and which the
experience of more than half a century has taught us to value
so highly. The apprehension of this danger is not speculative
merely. For, in 1837, Congress actually interposed to relieve the
commerce of the country from serious embarrassment, arising
from the laws of different States, situate upon waters which
are the boundary between them. This was done by an enactment of the 2d of March, 1837, in the following words:
"Be it enacted, that it shall and may be lawful for the master
or commander of any vessel coming into or going out of any
port situate upon waters which are the boundary between two
States, to employ any pilot duly licensed or authorized by the
laws of either of the States bounded on the said waters, to pilot
said vessel to or from said port. any law, usage, or custom, to
the contrary, notwithstanding."
The act of 1789, (1 Stat. at Large, 54,) already referred to,
contains a clear legislative exposition of the Constitution by
the first Congress, to the effect that the power to regulate pilots
was conferred on Congress by the Constitution; as does also
the act of March the 2d, 1837, the terms of which have just
been given. The weight to be allowed to this contemporaneous
construction, and the practice of Congress under it, has, in-anbther connection, been adverted to. And a majority of the court
are of opinion, that a regulation of pilots is a regulation of
commerce, within the grant to Congress of the commercial
power, contained in the third clause of the eighth section of the
first article of the Constitution.
It becomes necessary, therefore, to consider whether this law
of Pennsylvania, being a regulation of commerce, is valid.
The act of Congress of the 7th of August, 1789, sect. 4, is as
follows:
" That all pilots in the bays, inlets, rivers, harbors, and ports
of the United States shall continue to be regulated in conformity with the existing laws of the States, respectively, wherein
such pilots may be, or with such laws as the States may respectively hereafter enact for th6 purpose, until further legislative provision shall be made by Congress."
If the law of Pennsylvania, now in question, had been in existence at the date of this act of Congress, we might hold it to

SUPREME

COURT.

Cooley v. Board of Wardens of Port of Philadelphia et al.

have been adopted by Congress, and thus made a law of the
United States, and so valid. Because this act does, in effect,
give the force of an act of Congress, to the then existing State
laws on this subject, so long as they should continue unrepealed
by the State which enacted them.
But the law on which these actions are founded was not enacted till 1803. What effect thexi can be attributed to so much
of the act of 1789, as declares, that pilots shall continue to be
regulated in conformity, "with such laws as the States may respectively hereafter enact for the purpose, until further legislative provision shall be made by Congress"?
If the States were divested of the power to legislate on this
subject by the grant of the commercial power to Congress, it is
plain this act could not confer upon them power thus to legislate. If the Constitution excluded the States from making any
law regulating commerce, certainly Congress cannot regrant, or
in any manner reconvey to the States that power. And yet this
act of 1789 gives its sanction only to laws enacted by the States.
This necessarily implies a constitutional power to legislate; for
only a rule created by the sovereign power of a State acting in
its legislative capacity, can be deemed a law, enacted by a State;
and if the State has so limited its sovereign power that it no longer
extends to a particular subject, manifestly it cannot, in any proper
sense, be said to enact laws thereon. Entertaining these views
we are brought directly and unavoidably to the consideration of
the question, whether the grant of the commercial power to
Congress, did per se deprive the States of all power to regulate
pilots.. This question has never been decided by this court, nor,
in our judgment, has any case depending upon all the considerations which must govern this one, come before this court. The
grant of commercial power to Congress does not contain any
terms which expressly exclude the States from exercising an authority over its subject-matter. If they are excluded it must be
because the nature of the power, thus granted to Congress, requires that a similar authority should not exist in the States. If
it were conceded on the one side, that the nature of this power,
like that to legislate for the District of Columbia, is absolutely
and totally repugnant to the existence of similar power in the
States, probably no one would deny that the grant of the power
to Congress, as effectually and perfectly excludes the States
from all future le-islationi on the subject, as if express words had
been used to exclude them. And on the other hand, if it were
admitted that the existence of this power in Congress, like the
power of taxation, is compatible with the existence of a similar
power in the States, then it would be in conformity with the
contemporary exposition of the Constitution, (Federalist, No. 32,)

DECEMBER TERM,

1851.

319

Cooley v. Board of Wardens of Port of Philadelphia.et. al.

and with the judicial construction, given from time to timl by
this court, after the most deliberate consideration, to hold that the
mere grant of such a power to Congress, did not imply a prohibition on the States to exercise the same power; that it is not the
mere existence of such a power, but its exercise by Congress,
which may be incompatible with the exercise of the same pqwer
by the States, and that the 'States may legislate in the absence
of congressional regulations. Sturges v. Crowninshield, 4 Wlieat.
193 ; Moore v. Houston, 5 Wheat. 1; Wilson v. Blackbird Creek
Co. 2 Peters, 251.
The diversities of opinion, therefore, -which have existed on
this subject, have arisen fiom the different views taken of the
nature of this power. But when the nature of a power like this
is spoken of, when it is said that the nature of the power requires that it should be exercised exclusively by Congress, it
mui-.t be intended to refer to the subjects of that power, and to
say they are of such a nature as to require exclusive legislation
by Congress. Now the power to regulate commerce, embraces a vast field, containing not only many, but exceedingly
various subjects, quite unlike in their nature; some imperatively
demanding a single uniform rule, operating equally on the comrmerce of the United States in every port; and some, like the
subject now in question, as imperatively demanding that diversity, which alone can meet the local necessities of navigation.
Either absolutely to affirm, or deny that the nature of this
power requires exclusive legislation by Congress, is to lose
sight of the nature of the subjects of this power, and to assert
concerning all of them, what is really applicable but to.a part.
Whatever subjects of -this power are in their nature national,
or admit only of one uniform system, or plan of regulation, may.
justly be said to be of such a nature as to require exclusive legislation by Congress. That this cannot be affirmed of laws for
the regulation of pilots and pilotage is plain. The act of 1789
contains a clear and aulhoritative declaration by the first Congress, that the nature of this subject is such, that until Congress
should find it necessary to exert its power, it should be left to
the legislation of the States; that it is local and not national;
that it is likely to be the best provided for, not by one system,
or plan of regulations, but by as many as the legislative discretion of the several States should deem applicable to the local
peculiarities of the poits within their limits.
Viewed in this light, so much of this act of 1789 as declares
that pilots shall continue to be regulated "by such laws as the
States may respectively hereafter enact for that purpose," instead
of being held to be inoperative, as an attempt to confer on the
States 4 power to legislate, of which the Constitution hadl de.

320

SUPREME

COURT.

Cooley v. Board of Wardens of Port of Philadelphia et al.

prived them, is allowed an appropriate and important signification. It manifests the understanding of Congress, at the outset of the government, that the nature of this subject is not
such as to require its exclusive legislation. The practice of the
States, and of the national government, has been in conformity
-with this declaration, from the origin of the national government to this time; and the nature of the subject when examined,

is such as to leave no doubt of the superior -itness and propriety,
not to say the absolute necessity, of different systems of regulation, drawn from local knowledge and experience, and conformed
to local wants. How then can we say, that by the mere grant
of power to regulate commerce, the States are deprived of all the
power to legislate on this subject, because from the nature of the
power the legislation of Congress must be exclusive. This
would be to affirm that the nature of the power is in any case,
something different from the nature of the subject to which, in
such case, the power extends, and that the nature of the power
necessarily demands, in all cases, exclusive legislation by Congress, while the nature of one of the subjects of that power, not
only does not require such exclusive legislation, but may be best
provided for by many different systems enacted by the States, in
conformity with the circumstances of the ports within their limits.
In construing an instrument designed for the formation of a government, and in determining the extent of one of its impoitant
grants of power to. legislate, we can make no such distinction
between the nature of the power and the nature of the subject
on which that power was intended practically to operate, nor consider the grant more extensive by affirming of the power, what
is not true of its subject now in question.
It is the opinion of a majority of the court that the mere grant
to Congress of the power to regulate conmmerce, did not deprive

the States of power to regulate pilots, and that although Congress has legislated on this subject, its legislation manifests an
intention, with a single exception, not to regulate this subject,
but to leave its regulation to the several States. To these precise questions, which are all we are called on to decide, this opinion must be understood to be confined. It does not extend to
the question what other subjects, under ihe commercial power,
are within the exclusive control of Congress, or may be regulated bythe States inthe absence of allcongressional legislation;
nor to the general question how far any regulation of a subject
by Congress, may be deemed to operate as an exclusion of all
legislation by the States upon the same subject. - We decide the
precise questions before us, upon what we deeu sound principles, applicable to this particular subject in the state in which
the legislation of Congress has left it. We go no further.

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

321

Cooley v. Board of Wardens of Port of Philadelphia et al.

We have not adverted to the practical consequences of holding that the States possess no power to legislate for the regulation of pilots, though in our apprehension these would be of the
most serious importance. For more than sixty years this subject has been acted on by the States, and the systems of some
of them created and of others essentially modified during that
period. To hold that pilotage fees and penalties demanded and
received during that time, have been illegally exacted, under
color of void laws, would work an amount of mischief which a
clear conviction of constitutional duty, if entertained, must force
us to occasion, but which could be viewed by no just mind without deep regret. Nor would the mischief be limited -to the past.
If Congress were now to pass a law adopting the existing State
laws, if enacted without authority, and in violation of the Constitution, itwould seem to us to be a new and questionable mode
of legislation.
If the grant of commercial power in the Constitution has deprived the States of all power to legislate for the regulation of
pilots, if their laws on this subject are mere usurpations upon
the exclusive power of the general government, and utterly void,
it may be doubted whether Congress could, with propriety, recognize them as laws, and adopt them as its own acts; and how
are the legislatures of the States to proceed in future, to watch
over and amend these laws, as the progressive wants of a growing commerce will require, when the members of those legislatures are made aware that they canno legislate on this subject
without violating the oaths they have taken to support the Constitution of the United States '?
We are of opinion that this State law was enacted by virtue
of a power, residing in the State to legislate; that it is not in
conflict with any law of Congress; that it does not interfere
with any system which Congress has established by malting
regulations, or by intentionally leaving individuals to their own
unrestricted action ; that this law is therefore valid, and the judgment of the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania in each case must
be affirmed.
Mr. Justice McLean and Mr. Justice Wayne dissented; and
Mr. Justice Daniel, although he concurred in the judg nent of
the court, yet dissented from its reasoning.
Mr. Justice McLEAN.
It is with regret that I feel myself obliged to dissent from the
opinion of a majority of my brethren in this case.
As expressing my views on the question involved, I will copy
a few sentences from the opinion of Chief Justice Marshall in
the opinion in Gibbons v. Ogden. "It has been said," says that

322

SUPR-EME

COURT.

Cooley v. Board of Wardens of Port of Philadelphia et al.

illustrious judge, "that the act of August 7th, 1789, acknowledges
a concurrent power in the States to' regulate the conduct of
pilots, and hence is inferred an admission of their concurrent
right with Congress to regulate commerce with foreign nations
and amongst the States." "But this inference is not, we think,
justified by the fact.
"Alth6ugh Congress," he continues," cannot enable a State to
legislate, Congress may adopt the provisions of a State on any
subject. When the government of the Union was brought into
existence, it. found a system for the regulation of its pilots iafull
force in every State. The act which has been mentioned, adopts
this system, and gives it the same validityf as if its provisions
had been specially made by Congress. But the act, it may be
said, is prospective also, And the adoption of laws to be in future
presupposes the right in the maker to legislate on the subject."
" The act unquestionably manifests an intention to leave this
subject entirely to the States, until Congress should think proper to interpose; but the very enactment of such a law indicates
an opinion that itwas necessary; that the existing systemwould
not be applicable to, the new state of things, unless expressly
applied to it by Congress. But this section is confined to pilots
within the bays, inlets, rivers, harbors, and ports of the United
States, which axe, of course, in whole or in part, also within the
limits of some particular State. The acknowledged power of
a State to regulate its police, its domestic trade, and to govern
its own citizens, may enable it to legislate on this subject, to a
considerabld extent; and the adoption of its system by Congress,
and the application of it to the whole subject of commerce, does
'not seem to the court to imply a right in the States so to apply
it of their own authority. But the adoption of the State system
being temporary, being only, "until further legislative provision
shall be made by Congress," shows conclusively, an opinion that
Congress could control the whole subject, and might adopt the
system of the States or provide one of its own."
Why did Congress pass the act of 1789, adopting the pilotlaws of the respective States ? Laws they unquestionably were,
having been enacted by the States before the adoption of the
Constitution. But were they laws under the Constitution? If
they had been so considered by Congress, they would not have
been adopted by a special act. There is believed to be no instance in the legislation of Congress, where a State law has been
adopted, which,-befoe its adoption, applied to federal powers.
To suppose such a case, would be an imputation of ignorance
as to federal powers, least of all chargeable against the men who
formed
the Constitution
and who best understood it.
Congress
adopted the pilot-laws
of the States, because it was

DECEMBER TERM,

1851.

323

Cooley v. Board of Wardons of Port of Philadelphia et al.

well understood, they could have had no force, as regulations of
foreign commerce or of commerce among the *States,if not so
adopted. By their adoption they were made acts of Congress,
and ever since they have been so considered and enforced.
Each State regulates the commerce within its limits ;'which
is not within the range of federal powers. So far, and no farther
could effect have been given to the pilot laws of the States, -under the Constitution. But those laws were only adopted " until
further legislative provisions shall be made by Congress."
This shows that Congress claimed the whole commercial
power on this subject, by adopting the pilot laws of the States,
making them acts of Congress; and also by declaring that the
adoption was only until some further legislative provision could
be made by Congress.
Can Congress annul the acts of a State passed within its admitted sovereignty? No one, I suppose, could sustain such a
proposition.
State sovereignty carl neither be enlarged nor
diminished by an act of Congress. It is not known that Congress has ever claimed such a power.
If the States had not the power to enact pilot laws, as connected with foreign commerce, in 1789, when did they get it?
It is an exercise of sovereign power to legislate. In this respect
the Constitution is the same now as in 1789, and also the power
of a State is the same. 'Whence, then, this enlargement of State
power. Is it derived from the act of 1789, that pilots shall continue to be regulated "in conformity with such laws as the States
may respectively hereafter enact" ? In the opinion of the Chief
Justice, above cited, it is said, Congress may adopt the laws of a
State, but it cannot enable a State to legislate. In other words,
it cannot transfer to a State legislative powers. And the court
also-say that the States canndt apply the pilot laws of their own
authority. We have here, then, the deliberate action of Congress, showing that the States ha e no inherent power to pass
these laws, which is affirmed by the opinion of this court.
Ought not this to be considered as settling this question?
What more of authority can be brought to bear upon it? But
it is said that Congress is incompetent to legislate on this sub-,
ject. Is this so? Did not Congress, in 1789, legislate on the
subject by adopting the State laws, and may it not do so again?
Was not that a wise and politic act of legislation? This is admitted. But it' is said that Congress cannot legislate on this
matter in detail. The act of 1789 shows that it is unnecessary
for Congress so to legislate. A single section covers the whole
legislation of the States, in regard to pilots. Where, then, is the
necessity of recognizing this power to exist in the States? There
is no such necessity; and if there were, it would not make the

321

SUPREME COURT.

Cooley v. Board of Wardens of Port of Philadelphia et al.

act of the State constitutional; for it is admitted that the power
is in Congress.
That a State may regulate foreign commerce, or commerce
among the States, is a doctrine which has been advanced by individual judges of this court; but never before, I believe, has
such a power been sanctioned by the decision of this court. In
this case, the power to regulate pilots is admitted to belong to
the commercial power of Congress; and yet it is held, that a
State, by virtue of its inherent power, may regulate the subject,
until such regulation shall be annulled by Congress. This is
the principle established by this decision. Its language is
guarded, in order to apply the decision only to the case before
the court. But such restrictions can never operate, so as to render the principle inapplicable to other cases. And it is in this
light that the decision is chiefly to be regetted. The power is
recognized in the State, because the subject is more appropriate
for State than Federal action; and consequently, it must be presumed the Constitution cannot have intended to inhibit State
action. This is not a rule by which the Constitution is to be
construed. It can receive but little support from the discussions
which took place on the adoption of the Constitution, and none
at all from the earlier decisions of this court.
It will be found that the principle in this case, if carried out,
will deeply affect the commercial prosperity of the country. If
a State has power to regulate foreign commerce, such regulation
must be held valid, until Congress shall repeal or annul it. But
the present case goes further than this. Congress regulated pilots
by the act of 1789, which made the acts of the State, on that
subject, the acts of Congress. In 1803, Pennsylvania passed the
law in question, which materially modified the act adopted by
Congress; and this act of 1803 is held to be constitutional.
This, then, asserts the right of a State, not only to regulate
foreign commerce, but to modify, and, consequently, to repeal a
prior regulation of Congress. Is there a mistake in this statement? There is none, if an adopted act of a State is thereby
made an act of Congress, and if the regulation of pilots, in regard to foreign commerce, be a regulation of commerce. The
latter position is admitted in the opinion of the court, and no
one will controvert the former. I speak of the principle of the
opinion, and not of the restricted application given to it by the
learned judge who dehvered it.
The noted Blackbird Creek case shows what little influence
a case can have in restraining
the facts and circumstancesto of
embody.
the principle it is supposed
How can the unconstitutional acts of Louisiana, or of any
other State which has ports on the lississippi, or the Ohio, or

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

325

Cooley v. Board of Wardens of Port of Philadelphia et al.

on any of our other rivers, be corrected, without the action of
Congress? And when Congress shall act, the State has only to
chanie its ground, in order to enact and enforce its regulations.
Louisiana now imposes a duty upon vessels for mooring in the
river opposite the city of New Orleans, which is called a levee
tax, and which, on some boats performing weekly trips to that
city, amounts to from $3,000 to $4,000 annually. What is
there to prevent the thirteen or fourteen States bordering upon
the two rivers first named, from regulating navigation on those
rivers, although Congress may have regulated the same at some
prior period? I speak not of the effect of this doctrine theoretically in this matter, but practically. And if the doctrine be
true how can this court say that such regulations of commerce
are invalid? If this doctrine be sound, the passenger cases were
erroneously decided. In those cases there was no direct conflict
betveen the acts of the States taxing passengers and the acts of
Congress.
From this race of legislation between Congress and the States,
and between the States, if this principle be maintained, will arise
a conflict similar to that which existed before the adoption of
the Constitution. The States favorably situated, as Louisiana,
may levy a contribution upon the commerce of other States,
which shall be sufficient to meet the expenditures of the States.
The application of the money exacted under this act of Pennsylvania, it is said, shows that it is not raised for revenue. The
application of the money cannot be relied on as showing an act
of a State to be constitutional. If the State has power to pass
the act it may apply the money raised in its discretion.
I think the charge of half-pilotage is correct under the circumstances, and I only object to the power of the State to pass the
law. Congress, to whom the subject peculiarly belongs, should
have been applied to, and no douibt it would have adopted the
act. of the State.
Mr. Justice DANIEL.
I agree with the majority in their decision, that the judgments
of the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania in these cases, should be
affirmed, though I cannot go with them in the process or argument by which their conclusion has been reached. The power
and the practice of enacting pilot-laws, which'has been exercised
by the States from the very origin of their existence, although it is
one in some degree connected with commercial intercourse, does
not come essentially and regularly within that power of commercial regulation vested by the Constitution in Congress, and
which by the Constitution must, when exercised by Congress,
be enforced with perfect equality, and without any kind of disVOL. X1I.

28

326

SUPREME

COUET.

Cooley v. Board of Wardens of Port of Philadelphia et al.

crimination, local or otherwise, in its application. The power
delegated to Congress by the Constitution relates properly to the
terms on which commercial engagements may be prosecuted;
the character of the articles which they may embrace; the permission or terms according to which they may be introduced; and
do not necessarily nor even naturally extend to the means of
precaution and safety adopted within the waters or limits of the
States by the authority of the latter for the preservation of vessels and cargoes, and the lives of navigators or passengers.
These last subjects are essentially local- they must depend
upon local necessities which call them into existence, must differ according to the degrees of that necessity. It is admitted, on
all hands, that they cannot be uniform or even general, but must
;.ary so as to meet the purposes to be accomplished. They
have no connection with contract, or traffic, or with the permission to trade in any subject, or upon any conditions. They belong to the same conservative power which undertakes to guide
the track of the-vessel over the rocks or shallows of a coast, or
river; -which directs her mocring or her position in port, for the
safety of life and property, whether in reference to herself or to
other vessels, their cargoes and crews, which for security against
pestilence subjects vessels to quarantine, and may order the
total destruction of the cargoes they contain. This is a power
which is deemed indispensable to the safety and existence of
every community. It may -well be made a question, therefore,
whether it could, under any circumstances, be surrendered; but
certainly it is one which cannot be supposed to have been given by
mere implication, and as incidental to another, to the exercise of
which it is not indispensable. It is hot just nor philosophical
to argue from the possibility of abuse against the rightful existence of this power in the States; such an argument would, if
permitted, go to the overthrow of all power in either the States
or in the federal government, since there is no power which
may not be abused. The true question here is, whether the
power to enact pilot-laws is appropriate and necessary, or rather
most appropriate and necessary to the State or the federal governments. It being conceded that this power has been exercised
by the States from their very dawn of existence; that it can be
practically and beneficially applied by the local authorities only; it
bing conceded, as it must be, that the power to pass pilot-laws,
as such, has not been in any express terms delegated to Congress, and does not necessarily conflict with the right to establish commercial regulations, I am forced to conclude that this
is an original and inherent power in the States, and not one to
be merely tolerated, or held subject to the sanction of the federal government.

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

827

Union Bank of Louisiana v. Stafford et a.

Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, for the Eastern
District, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof,
it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court, that the judgment of the said Supreme Court in this cause be, and the same
is hereby, affirmed, with costs.

5AMUEL

SMYTH V.

STRADER, PEVINE, &

CO.

If a writ of error does not set out the names of all the parties to the judgment of the
Circuit Court, the case will be dismissed.

THIS was a writ of error from the Southern District of Ala
bama.
A. Piryor, counsel for the defendants in error, moved the
court to dismiss the case, on the ground that the writ of error
does not contain the names of the parties to the judgment sO1
out in the record.
Whereupon, the court passed the following order:
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of Alabama, and it appearing to the court here that
this writ of error is vicious and defective, inasmuch as it does
not set out the names of all the parties to the judgment of the
Circuit Court, it is thereupon, on the motion of Mr. Pryor,of
counsel for the defendants in error, now here ordered and adjudged by this court, that thi4 cause be, and the.same is hereby,
dismissed, with costs.

UNION BANK OF LOUISIANA, COMPLAINANTS AND APPELLANTS,
V. JOSIAH S. STAFFORD AND JEANNETTA KIRKLAND, HIS WIFE,
DEFENDANTS.
The 25th section of the law of Louisiana incorporating the 'Union Bank of Louisiana
declare.q that in all hypothecary contracts and obligations entered into by any mar-

ried individual with the bank, it shall be lawful for the wife to unite with him - and

