SUPREME COURT.
Dundas et al. v. Hitchcock.

petition, and alleging other facts, which, if supported by testimony, were sufficient to bar the recovery.
Upon these issues the parties proceeded in the ease, and evidence on both sides was offered, which is stated at large in the
record. And, as neither party demanded a jury, the fact as well
as the law was, according to the Louisiana practice, submitted
to the court.
The plaintiff in error has not presented any argument in this
court, nor assigned any particular error of which he complains.
None of the testimony on either side appears to have been objected to in the Circuit Court. Nor does it appear, from the
pleadings, or by exception, or by the opinion of the court, that
any question of law arose or was decided in the case. On the
contrary the opinion of the court, inserted in the record, according to -the Louisiana practice, states that, being satisfied that
the defendant in error had fully substantiated the allegations in
his petition, the court proceeded to give judgment in his favor.
The language of the opinion, when taken in connection with
the pleadings and issuet, implies that the case turned upon the
comparative weight of the testimony; upon the fact, and not
upon the law. And, whether the fact was rightly decided or
not, according to the evidence, is not open to inquiry in this
court. The decision of the court below, in this respect, is as
here
conclusive as the verdic t of a jury when the case is brought
by writ of error. And, as no error in law appears in the record, the judgment of the Circuit Court must be affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern
District of Louisiana, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court,
that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause be,
and the same is hereb-, affirmed, with costs and damages, at
the rate of six per cent. per annum.

JAMES DUNDAS, MORDEdAI D. LEWIs, SAMUEL W. JONES, ROBERT L. PITTFIELD, AND ROBERT HOWELL, APPELLANTS, V.

ANNE HITCfiCOCx.
When a mortgage wes executed by a husband, his own name only being used in the
body of the instrument, but it was signed by his wife also, who re1inquished her

DECEMBER TE,RM, 1851.
Dundas et a.

257

v. Hitche-ock.

right of dower, and madeher acknowledgment in an after part of the instrument;
and there is sufficient evidence, from an inspection of the whole instrument, to
believe that the intention of the parties was to consider the whole paper as forming
one assurance, the wife will be barred of her dower, as fpfasthe mortgage is con-,
cerned.
Where a statute requires a private examination of the we, to ascertain that she acts
freely, and not by compulsion of her'husband, but prescribes no precise form of
words to be used in the certificate, it is sufficient if the words of .the-aknowledgment have the same meaning, and are in substance the same, with those used m
the statute.
Where a widow was allowed one year, after probate of her hlst iad's will, to elect
whether to take under it or not, and by the will she was sole de',.see for hejrself -and
children, and before the cxpiration of the year she released to the mortgagee all her
estate, right, and claim to the mortgaged premises, styling herself widow and sole
devisee, she cannot afterwards avail herself of her right of election and set up a
to dower, outside of the will, she is estopped by her deed.
clmaiA

'Turs-was art appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Southern District of- Alabama-. There were. ,two
cases between the same parties, depending upon the same principles, and only differing as to the property mortgaged. The
notice of one-will suffice for both.
The plaintiffs in error were the trustees of the Bank of the
United States, being the assignees of Cowperthwaate, Dunlap,
and Cope, the odginal trustees.
In July, 1838, Henry Hitchcock, of Mobile, Alabama, came
to a settlement of many transactions of loans and discounts
with the Bank of the United States, and was found indebted to
the amount of six hundred and twenty thousand, five hundred
and thirty dollars, and ninety-six cents. ($620,530.96) He gave
his bond for this sum, payable in four instalments, and to secure
it executed a mortgage, which gave use to one of the questions
in the present suit, the point being whether or not his wife so,
far joined irthe mortgage as to relinquish her right of dower.
Her dower in the equty of redemption was-not called in question, but was worth nothing.
The mortgage commenced in -this way
"Know all men by these presents that I, Henry Hitchcock, of
the city and county of Mobile, in the State of Alabama," &c.,
&c., and concluded in this way " Providedi always, and these
presents are upon this express condition, that if the said Henry
Hitchcock shall well and truly pay to the said Joseph Cowperthwaite, Thomas Dunlap, and Herman Cope, the survivors or survivor of them, the sum of six hundred and twenty thousand five
hundred and'thirty dollars and ninety-six cents, with eight per
cent. interest per annum, from the first day of 'March, A. D. one
thousand eight hundred and thirty-eight, thereon accruing, payable semi-annually, according to the condition of a certain bond
by the said Henry Hitchcock given, payable to the said Joseph
22*

258

SUPREME COURT.
Dundas et al. -j. Hitchcock.

Cowperthwaite, Thomas Dunlap, and Herman Cope, bearing
even date with these presents, then these presents shall cease,
determine, and be void; otherwise to be and remain in full force
and virtue. Given under my hand and seal, this fourteenth day
of July, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and
thirty-eight.

H. HITCHCOCK.

ANNE HITCHCOCK.

Signed, sealed, and delivered in the presence of And I, Anne Hitchcock, wife of the said Henry Hitchcock, for
and in consideration of the sum of one dollar, to me in hand
paid by the said Joseph Cowperthwaite, Thomas Dunlap, and
Herman Cope, have relinquished, and hereby do relinquish by
these presents, all my right and title of dower in and to the
above described premises, to the said Joseph Cowperthwaite,
Thomas Dunlap, and Herman Cope, the survivors or survivor
of them, and to the heirs, executors, and assigns nf such survivor,
forever
Wit iess my hand and seal, this fourteenth day of July, one
thousand eight hundred and thirty-eight.
ANNE HITCHCOCK. [SEAL.]

Attest:

CHARLES A. MARSTON.

THE STATE OF ALABAMA,

Mobile County.
Personally appeared before me, Charles A. Marston, notarypublic in and for said county, the above-named H. Hitchcock,
who acknowledged that he signed, sealed, and delivered the
foregoing indenture of mortgage to Joseph Cowperthwaite, Thomas Dunlap, and Herman Cope, on the day and year therein
mentioned. And also appeared personally before me, Charles
A. Marston, Anne Hitchcock, wife of the said H. Hitchcock, who
being examined privately and apart from her said husband, acknowledged that she signed, sealed, and delivered the said
indenture of mortgage freely, and of her own accord, and without any fear, threats, or compulsion of her said husband.
Given under my hand and seal notarial, this fourteenth day
of July, A. D. 1838.
CHARLES A. MARSTON.

The first instalment of debt and interest became due in March,
1839, in the life of Hitchcoc.
He made default in the payment
of the first instalment. The Bank of the United States then
filed their bill to foreclose the mortgage in the Court of Chancery at Mobile. Hitchcock resisted the payment of the debt

DECEMBER TERM,

1851.

259

Dundas et al. v. Hitchcock.-

upon the plea of usury. There had been no decision of this suit
at the date of Hitchcock's death, which took place on 11th
August, 1839.
In August, 1839, Hitchcock made his will, legally authenti'
cated, and devised his property in trust to his wife, for the use
of his wife and children, after the payment of certain legacies.
This will was admitted to probate in the Orphans' Court of
Mobile county, in August, 1839, but neither letters testamentary nor of administration were issued until Febiuary, 1840.
After the death of Hitchcock, his widow, Anne, took possession of the estate, and executed many leases, but never qualified
as executrix. James Erwin, her brother, purchased at sheriff's
sale, all the right and title of Hitchcock, to a part of the property,
for fifty dollars, and procured an attornment from the tenants.
This gave rise to a suit which is reported in 4 How. 58.
In February, 1840, sundry negotiations took place between
the parties, which eventuated in the execution of the following
deeds and releases; viz.:
1. On the 8th of February, 1840, Anne Hitchcock executed a
deed to Cowperthvvaite, Dunlap, and Cope. It commenced thus:
" This indenture, made this eighth day of February, A. D. 1840,
by and between Anne Hitchcock, widow and sole devisee of
Henry Hitchcock, late of Mobile county, acting under and by
virtue of the -last will and testament, and the several codicils
thereto annexed, of the said Henry Hitchcock, duly proved and
of record in the Orphans' Court of Mobile couhty, of the first
part, and Joseph Cowperthwaite, Thomas Dunlap, and Herman
Cope, of the city of Philadelphia, and State of Pennsylvania,
of the second part, witnesseth: That the party of the first part,
for and in consideration of the sum of seven hundred and fiftythree thousand four hundred and fifty-two dollars and twentythree hundredths dollars, to her well and truly in hand paid, at
and before the ensealing and delivery of these presents, by the
said parties of the second part, the receipt whereof she doth
hereby acknowledge, hath remised, released, conveyed, and forever quitelaimed, and doth by these presents remise, release,
convey, and forever quitclaim, unto the said parties of the. second part, the survivors and survivor of them, and the heirs, ex-.
ecutors, administrators, and assigns of such survivor, all the
estate, right, title, interest, use, trust,.property, claim and demand
whatsoever, at law as well as in equity, in possession as well as
in expectancy, of, in, to, or out of all and singular the following
described lands and premises; that is to say," &c., &c. Then
followed a conveyance of' the mortgaged property, leases,
and all.
2. On the 10th of February, James Erwin executed a deed to

260

SUPREME

COULT,

Dundas et al. v. Hitchcock.

Cowperthwaite, Dunlap, and Cope for the property which he
had bought at sheriff's sale. The consideration was one hundred and fifty thousand-dollars, which, it was alleged, was to be
appropriated to the payment of other debts of Hitchcock, which
were not secured by mortgage.
3. A release by the bank to Anne Hitchcock. This recited
the bond, the mortgage, the delivery to the bank, by Anne, of
the lands and houses devised to her, and then agreed that the
bank should look only to the mortgaged property for the payment of its debt, and should surrender the notes afid bills given
by Hitchcock to the bank.
After the execution of these deeds, but within a year from the
death of her husband; -viz., on the 15th August, 1840, Anne refused to qualify as executrix, and repudiated the provisions made
for her in the will, and claimed dower in lieu thereof. These
papers were filed and recorded in the Orphans' Court of Mlobile
county; whereupon Isaac H. Erwin was appointed achninistrator with the will annexed.
In 1840, the bank filed a bill in the Court of Chancery at
Mobile, against Isaac H. Erwin, Anne, and her children, which
court decided that the property was properly held by the bank
under the deeds, and that the defendants should be foreclosed
unless the debt and costs were paid by a certain day. This de.
cree was carried by appeal to the Supreme Court of Alabama,
and there affirmed at January term, 184.
On the 23d of April, 1847, Anne Hitchcock filed a bill in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of
Alabama, against the bank, claiming dower in the lands included in the mortgage. The bank answered; evidence was
taken, and the judge of the Circuit Court decided that the complainant was entitled to dower, and decreed that it should be set
off to her. From this decree the bank appealed to this court.
It was argued by 11r. Bradley and 141r. Cam2bell, for the appellants, and by 111r. Hopkins and 111r. Badg'er,for the appellee.
The following is an outline of the arguments of the respective
counseL
The counsel for the appellants contended:
1. That the deed of Mrs. Hitchcock, written underneath the
deed of her husband, dated of the same date, and which. she
says in her answer to the trustees of the Bank of the United
States in the chancery suit, was designed as a joining in the
mortgage of her husband, was legal, valid, and operative, and
that this has been already determined judicially.
The complaint of Mrs. Hitchcock is, that the notary, in de-

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

261

Dundas et al. v. Hitchcock.

scribing the paper acknowledged by her, says that it was the
said "Indenture of Mortgage," and that by no construction can
these words be held to describe the deed of relinquishment of
dower. It is said she did really sign and seal the mortgage with
her husband, but she employed no terms of grant in its body;
and that her acknowledgment must be confined to the execution of that paper, and to have no relation to the deed immediately following, and signed the same day, and which was. pre.
sent, and held by the notary who took the acknowledgment.
We contend that the mortgage to the bank consisted of the
estate of Henry Hitchcock, unembarrassed by the claim for
dower, and that there was no misnomer in the designation of
the whole instrument, which exhibited the grant of that estate,
and the renunciation of the dower claim, "as an indenture of
mortgage."
We contend, further, that the acknowledgment certified must
be taken to have been of the whole transaction to which Mrs.
Hitchcock was a party, and which is contained in the instrument executed by her. Such was the intention of all concerned
with it.
Mrs. Hitchcock, in her relinquishment,. refers to the deed of
her husband four times. She describes herself as the wife of
the said Henry Hitchcock; she refers tvice to the grantees as
the said Cowperthwaite, &c.; she refers to the premises as "the
above-described premises." The instrument is of the same
date.
The principle of construction applicable,-then, to this instrument is that found in Lord Cromwell's case, Coke's R. book 2,
75. " The law will not adjudge by parcels in subversion of the
intent and agreement of the parties; but when all acts are done
in performance of the original contract and agreement of the
parties, the law will judge upon the whole as executed at one
and the same time."
Here the execution of the deed and the acknowledgment bear
the same date, are on the same paper, and are obviously pursuant to the same contract. "The end of the lawis to settle, repose,
and make peace between man and man concerning their possessions, and it would be too dangerous a thing to make any
construction against the allowance in common assurances; for
thereupon would rise infinite contentions, quarrels and suits,
which would be inconvenient." Selwyn v. Selwyn, 2 Burr. 1131;
Vaughan v. Atkins, 5 Burr. 2764, 2787. 'There the court says,
"that the several parts and ceremonies necessary to complete a
conveyance shall be taken together as one act, and operate from
the substantive part of it, by relation."
It is not denied that the manifest intention was that the dower

262

SUPREME

COUWCT.

Dundas et al. v. Hitchcock.

of Mrs. Hitchcock should not encumber the estate of the mortgagees. It was designed that the mortgage should cover that
estate. When her signature appears on the mortgage, and. her
acknowledgment is, that she executed the "indenture of mortgage," what is the interpretation to be put upon her words ?
ust we not hold that her acknowledgment applies to thd papers executed by her, and under which her acknowledgment is
certified? Lawrence v. Blatchford, 2 Ver. 457; VanHagen v,
VanRensselaer, 18 Johns. 420, 16 Viner's Abr. 138, Chitty on
Contracts, 90.
" The same principle of construction has been fully recognized
in Alabama. Bradford v. Dawson, 2 Ala. R. 203; Hines v.
Bank of Alabama, 2 Ala. 452, 482; Sewall v. Henry, 9 Ala.
24.
For applications of the same principle, see 11 Venn. 221, 15
Verm: 472.
The court would then look to the whole instrument to find
what was understood by the acknewledgment made by Mrs.
Hitchcock with a view of sustaining the conveyance.
,2. We contend that if the question were open, upon the authorities and arguments we -have adduced, a similar decision
would be proper.
3. We contend that, on the 8th February, 1840, in so far as
we are concerned, Mrs. Hitchcock accepted the provisions of her
husband's will, and was invested with every right it gave, and
divested of every right antagonistic or adverse. That this'election appears by the deed to the trustees, and was for a valuable
consideration. That she conveyed by that deed every right and
estate in the land she had or might derive from the most solernh
and authentic acceptance of the terms of the will, and we say
that this conclusion legally results from the decree 6f the Court
of Chancery.
4. We contend that, whether the renunciation of Mrs. Hitchcock had been prior or subsequent to the execution of her deed
of the 8th of February, the effect of her deed is the same. That
the deed operates upon the estates, rights, and claimi she then
had of every name and nature. That the deed bars an inchoate or unassigned dower estate, as well as an equity of redemption.
It is perfebt and all comprehensive, not only as a release and
quitclaim but as a conveyance. If purports to transfer rights as
well as to discharge claims.
6. We contend that all these claims were propeily raised, or
might have been raised, in the suit in chancery at Mobile between Mrs. Hitchcock and the plaintiffs in error. That the adjudication in that court covers all the questions of right that are

DECEMBER TERM, f851.

268

Dundas et al. v. Hitchcock.

embraced in this suit, or that they were the appropriate subjects
of adjudication then, and waived by her if not legally presented:
That the title of the trustees was quieted by that litigation, and
ought not to be disturbed.
T-he counsel then proceeded to argue these points, and cited
Drew v. Norbury, 3 Jon. & Lat. 284, to show that where a person had several estates and interest, they all passed under a
deed. Sugden on Powers, 82; Hobart, 153; 10 Vesey, 246; Note 7
to Appendix 2 Co. Litt. 800, (Thomas's Coke); and that even supposing that the widow's dower did not pass under the mortgage,
and that her deed to the trustees only conveyed her interest under the will, still she could not recover in this suit. That she
was estopped by her deed from disputing the validity and binding operation of the will, and from defeating the estate she
claimed under it, by holding up a title she might have possessed
at the time of her deed in contradiction to that she purports to convey under the will. 1 Metcalf, 180; 8 Ham. 180; 6 East, 105;
Carver v. Jackson, 4 Pet. 85, 86; Harding v. Ambler, 3 M &
Wels. 279; 2 Adol. & E. 278; 1 Id. 792; 1 Ired. 566.
Wrhether, in the absence of any statutory provision, her acts,
apaxt from this deed, would amount to an acceptance of the
provisions of the will, will appear from 2 Yeates, 102; 6 Rand.
541; 17 S. & R. 16; 4 H. & M. 23; 3 Yeates, 79; 3 Fairf. 138;
10 Johns. 30.
The counsel for the appellee made, amongst others, the following points:
1. The mortgage is the deed of Henry Hitchcock only. His
wife is no party to it. It contains no yords of grant from her.
Her name is not rRentioned in the deed, not even in the clause
of attestation. If she signed and sealed the mortgage, such
acts would not make it her deed, and would leave her right to
dower unimpaired. 4 How. Rep. (U. S.) 241, 242; 9 Mass.
Rep. 218; 3 Mason's Cir. Ct. Rep. 347, 349; 16 Ala. Rep.
130; 7 Ohio Rep. 195; 10 Ohio Rep. 305-307; 7 Mass. Rep.
14; 13 Mass. Rep. 223.
2. The certificate of the notary that she acknowledged she
signed, sealed, and delivered the indenture of mortgage, gives
no effect to the mortgage against her right to dower, because the
acknowledgment was of the deed of mortgage, which could not
convey her right of dower, as it was not her deed, and contained
no grant from her. The interest of a married woman in real
estate can be conveyed only by a grant from her in a deed, to
which she is a party. The execution of her deed must be acknowledged by her before an officer authorized to receive it, and
in the mode prescribed by law. The fact that she made the

264

SUPREME COURT.
Dundas et al. v. Hitc2icoek.

acknowledgment and in the legal mode, can be proved only by
the certificate thereof made by a proper officer, and the one
before whom the acknowledgment was made. 4 How. Rep. (U.
S.) 242; 3 Mason's Cir. Ct. Rep. 348, 349; 9 Mass. Rep. 218;
2 Story's Eq. 618, sect. 1391; Macqueen on Husband and Wife,
Appendix No. 1, 37, 88; Id. No. 2,49.
6. The relinquishment, if she had acknowledged the execution
of it, would be no bar to her right to dower. The statute law
requires such a deed to be made and acknowledged by a wife
as would convey her own estate, if her deed included her own
land. Such a deed, properly acknowledged, will convey her
dower, if her right to dower be her interest in the real estate,
included in her deed. Clay's Dig. 165, sect. 27, 28; 7 Mass.
Rep. 14,20; Aik. Dig. 93, sect. 29.
11. The effect of the acts of Mrs. Hitchcock, in taking possession of the mortgaged premises and conveying the equity of
redemption, was not an election on her part of the frust made in
the will for her benefit. Her possession and conveyance were
in effect as trustee for the creditors who were beneficiaries. She
did no act, in her individual character, unconnected with the
relation of trustee which she bore to others, and secured by her
conveyance .no benefit for herself. 1 P. Wins. 315, 318; 1
Vesey, Jr. 335; 12 Vesey, 136; 3 Stewert's Rep. 375.
If her acts had evinced her intention to elect the trust intended
by the testator for her benefit, they would not bind her, as it
does not appear that she then had full knowledge of her rights.
2 Vesey, Jr. 572, 577; 12 Vesey, 151, 152; 2 Johns. Ch. 1R.
451 ; 2 Vesey, 367, 371.
The deposition of Cope proves that the deed of Mrs. Hitclhcock to the trustees of the bank, and the deed of release from
Cope and others to her were deli-vered at the same time. This
is competent evidence. 3 Mason's Circ. Ct. Rep. 348; 15 Pet. 21.
They are therefore parts of the same contract, and the release of
Cope and others to her was the consideration of her deed to
1 Veiey, Sen.. 127, 133; 7 B. Monroe's Rep. 345,
them.
347; 2 Wheat. 290, 291, 299. As Mrs. Hitchcock received
no cbnsideration in money or in a iy thing else of value to herself, her dower would not be barred by the deed, if a release
of her right to dower were expressly made in the deed, and she
had intended to make it. 3 Johns. R. 478, 479-488; 16 Johns.

-R.47, 48.

The answer of the appellants in effect admits that the release
of the mortgage debt was the consideration of Mrs. Hitchcock's
deed to the trustees of the bank.
It is stated in the answer that the sum of one hundred and
fifty thousand dollars was paid to Mrs. Hitchcock or her agent,

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.
Dundas et al. v. Hitchcock.

as a part of the consideration for her release, to be applied to
the payment of other debts of her husband If the whole consideration had been money paid by the bank upon an agreement
with Mrs. Hitchcock, that it should be applied by her to the
payment of other debts of the mortgagor, it would not enlarge
the operation of her release of the equity of redemption, and
make it a conveyance also of the dower. 7 Cranch, 34, 35,
46, 47.
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the -court
The respondent, Mrs. Anne Hitchcock, was complainant
below, in two bills filed in the Circuit Court of Alabama, claiming her dower in certain property in the city of Mobile, of which
her late husband, Henry Hitchcock, was seized in his lifetime,
and of which the appellants, as trustees of the United States
Bank, were in possession, claiming under a mortgage given by
said Henry.
The answer admits the marriage of complainant, and the
seizin and death of her husband, and that the appellants hold
the property under a deed of mortgage from him; but deny that
complainant has any right of dower in the premises.
1st. Because she was a party to the deed of mortgage, and
had relinquished her right of dower by her deed duly executed
and acknowledged.
2d. That after the death of her husband, the complainant
took possession of his property as sole devisee in fee, and surrendered the possession to the mortgagees in satisfaction of the
debt, and for a large consideration paid to her executed a full
and absolute release to them of all her right, title, interest, and
estate, in the mortgaged property.
3d. That she was estopped by a decree of the court of Alabama, on a bill filed by the mortgagees for a foreclosure and to
have their title quieted.
If the appellants can succeed in establishing either of these
three grounds of defence, they will be entitled to a decree in
their favor.
We wNll therefore consider them in their order.
L The instrument of mortgage is dated on the 14th July,
1838. The first part of it is a deed poll in the usual form:
'/Know all men, &c., that I, Henry Hitchcot -of Mobile, &c., in
consideration of the sum of $620,530.96, to rhe in hand paid, by
these presents do grant, bargain, sell, &c.," and concluding,
" Given under my hand and seal, &c.," and signed "Henry
Hitchcock, Anne Hitchcock," with their respective seals; also
these words, "Signed, sealed, and delivered in presence of," but
no names of witnesses annexed.

266

SUPREME COURT.
Dundas et al. v.

Hitchcock.

Under these signatures and attestation is the following release,
signed and sealed by Anne Hitchcock:
"And I, Anne Hitchcock, wife of the said Henry Hitchcock,
for and in consideration of the sum of one dollar, to m in hand
paid by the said -Joseph Cowperthwaite, Thomas Dunlap, and
Herman Cope, have relinquished, and hereby do relinquish by
these presents, nl my right and title of dower in and to the
above-described premises, to the said Joseph Cowperthwaite,
Thomas Dunlap, and Herman Cope, the survivors or survivor
of them, and to the heirs, executors, and assigns of such survivor, forever.
Witness my hand and seal, this fourteenth day of July, one
thousand eight hundred and thirty-eight.

Attest: Charles A. Marston.

ANNE

HITCHCOCK.

[Seal.]

The acknowledgment which appears to have been taken at
the same time is as follows:
"THE;

STATE oF. ALABAMA,

Mobile County.
Personally appeared before me, Charles A. Marston, notarypublic in and for said county, the above-named Henry Hitchcock, who acknowledged that he signed, sealed, and delivered
the foregoing indenture of mortgage to Joseph Cowperthwaite,
Thomas Dunlap, and Herman Cope, on the day and year therein
mentioned. And also appeared personally before me, Charles
A. Marston, Anne Hitchcock, the wife of said H. Hitchcock, who
being examined privately and apart from her said husband, acknowledged that she signed, sealed, and delivered the said
indenture of mortgage.freely, and of her own accord, and without any fear, threats, or compulsion of her said husband.
Given under my hand and seal notarial, this fourteenth day
of July, A. . 1838.
CH'AFLES A. MAkRsTON."

The objections to the sufficiency of this instrument to bar the
dower of the wife, are, Ist, "That the mortgage is the deed of
the husband only. It contains no words of grant by the wife
-her name is not mentioned in the deed."
2d. That the relinquishrfient of dower is a several and separate deed, which should have the. signature of the husband, to
show his consent, and that it was the joint act of husband and
wife.
3d. That the acknowledgment of Mrs. Hitchcock is of "the
said'indenture of mortgage," and not of her relinquishment of
dower.

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

267

Dundas et al. v. Hitchcock.

And, 4th. That the acknowledgment is not in due form of
law.
The first three of these objections are founded on the assumption that the release of Mrs. Hitchcock forms no pait of the
deed of mortgage, but is a separate and distinct deed. It is
true, if that portion of the instrument, above the joint signatures
of the husband and wife, is to be construed as the whole
indenture of mortgage, the first proposition cannot be denied. FoT the instrument, thus far, does not purport to dispose
of any right or interest vested in the wife; and if nothing further had been added, the deed would have been wholly mioperative for that purpose. But the face of the instrument shows
that it does not end' there: for it proceeds, "And I, Anne Hitchcock, &,c., in consideration of the sum of one dollar to me in
hand paid by the said Joseph, &c., do relinquish all my right
and title of dower in and to the above-described premises to the
said Joseph, &c."
Usually this initiate and contingent right of dower is bdrred,
in deeds of sale and mortgage, by a conveyance making the
grant in the joint names of the husband and wife, in the sarpe
manner as if the estate belonged to the wife; the deed operating
by way of estoppel when the right of dower \becomes complete
by the death of the husband. But when the legal estate is vested 'wholly in the husband, and the right of the wife is but a contingent incumbrance, there is no necessity that she should join
in -the grant of the fee, the release of her inchoate right acknowledged in due form, being all that is necessary to bar hex from
setting up a claim of dower, after the death of her husband.
The insertion of the clause of release of dower might generally be considered by conveyancers as in better taste, if it had
preceded the signature and attestation of the other covenants
which affected the fee of the husband; but there is no stringent
unbending rule of law, which requires a deed to be in such form,
or in any peculiar form, in order to operate as a valid conveyance. The intention of the parties is to be gathered from an
inspection of the whole instrument of assurance taken togethier.
It ought not to be dislocated and rent into separate fragments
by a captious or astute construction, whose only result is to defeat the plain meaning and intention bf the parties.
The acts of Assembly of Alabama concerning conveyances$
frequently use the phrase "deeds and relinquishments of dower,"
which is probably the cause or the consequence of this form of
conveyancing in that State, and that in popular parlance, aconveyance of land in this form is described as if a "relinquishment
of dower" was not a deed, or a portion of the conveyance,, assurance, or grant, though made at the sAme time, and forming

268

SUPREME COURT.
Dundas et al. v. Hitcheock.

a portion of it. The instrument before us, composed of what is
popularly called the mortgage and relinquishment of dower, con.
stitutes but one deed or conveyance executed by husband and
wife for the purpose of conveying the fee vested in the husband,
and releasing the inchoate right of the wife. It was all written
on the same paper or parchment, for one purpose, the latter sentences connected with those which precede it, by a copulative
conjunction. It was all executed at the same time, and acknowledged by husband and wife at the time of its execution;
and they have each signed that portion of the conveyance which
purports to grant or release their several interests. The relative
position of the signatfires of the husband and wife, or the unnecessary duplication of either, is of little importance, where the
instrument, by apt and proper terms, clearly shows the intention
of the parties, that the husband should convey the fee, and the
wife join with him in the deed, for the purpose of releasing her
contingent estate of dower. In such cases, and especially where
this form of assurance is in common use, the astutia of a court
would be illy employed in criticizing the form of the conveyance,
in order that one of the parties may be enabled to escape
from his covenants, and thus wrong and defraud the other.
Let us now examine whether th3 acknowledgment of the
wife is sufficient, according to the statutes of Alabama, to operate as a conveyance or relinquishment of her right of dower.
The act of Assembly of Alabama on this subject (Aikin's Digest, 93, ยง 29) is a follows:
"No estate of a feme covert, in any lands, tenements, or hereditaments, lying and being in this territory, shall pass by her
deed or conveyance, without a previous acknowledgment made
by her on a private examination apart from her husband, before
one of the territorial judges, or one of the justices of the County
Court, that she signed, sealed, and delivered the same as her voluntary act and deed, freely, without any fear, threats, or compulsion of 'her husband, and a certificate thereof, written on or
under the said deed or conveyance, and signed by the officer
before whom it was made; and every deed or conveyance so
executed and acknowledged by a fente covert, and certified as
aforesaid, shall release and bar her right of dower, and be good
and effectual to 'convey the lands, tenements, and hereditaments
thereby intended to be conveyed."
One of the objections to the acknowledgment of Mrs. Hitchcock is, that she acknowledges to have signed and sealed "the
said indenture- of mortgage," and not that part of it called the
"1relinquishment of dower." This objection we think is hypercritical. "Hceret in litera." It is founded on the assumption
which we have just ntiqed, that the several covenants signed

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

269

Dundas et al. v. Hitchcock.

by the husband and wife do not constitute one assurance or
deed of mortgage. The same criticism would -Lnul the acknowledgment of the husband, which is, "that he executed the
foregoing indenture," whereas the deed signed by him is a deed
poll and not an indenture. Surely no court would declare his
acknowledgment invalid for this slight misnomer. It would,
certainly, be no great latitude of construction, even if they were
separate and distinct instruments, to refer the acknowledgment
of the wife to that one which contains her own grant or release,
and which she has signed and sealed. Even in cases of doubtful construction, the rule of law is, that the court should construe the instrument ut res magis vahnt. and not annul it by
such fanciful criticism.
It is objected, also, that this acknowledgment is not in the
very words of the statute. In place of the words, "as her voluntary act and deed, freely," it substitutes the words, "freely
and of. her own accord."
That the words of the acknowledgment have the same meaning, and are in substance the same with those used in the statute it needs no argument to demonstrate; and that such an
acknowledgment is a sufficient compliance with the statute" to
give validity to the deed of the wife, is not only consonant with
reason, but, as the cases cited by counsel show, supported by
very numerous authorities. The act requires a private examin-"
ation of the wife to ascertain that she acts freely and not by compulsion of her husband, but it prescribes no precise form of words
to be used in the certificate, nor requires that it should contain
all the synonymes used in the statute to express the meaning of
the legislature. In other acts of the same legislature, where a
precise form of acknowledgment of certain deeds is prescribed,
it is provided, that "any certificate of probate or acknowledgment of any such deed, shall be good and effectual if it contain
the substance, whether it be in the form or not, of that set forth
in the first section of this act" Clay's Dig. 153. -The legislature have thus shown a laudable anxiety to hinder a construction of their statutes, which would require a stringent adherence
to a mere form of words without regard to their meaning or
substance, and make the validity of titles to depend on the verbal
accuracy of careless scriveners.
'Weare, therefore, of opinion that the certificate of the acknowledgment of the complainant of the deed executed by her,
is valid ard sufficient in law to bar her claim of dower in the
mortgaged premises.
IL But, even if this deed of mortgage were not a sufficient
bar to the claim, we are of opinion that the deed of release exe-

SUPREME COURT.
Dundas et al. v. Hitchcock.

cuted by the complainant on the 8th of February, 1840, is a
complete bar and estoppel to the, claim set up in her bill.
Henry Hitchcock died in August, 1839, having first made his
will, in which he devises all his estate, real and personal, to the
complainant in trust to sell and dispose of the same, and invest it
for the use of herself and children, share and share alike. Under
this devise she entered and took possession of the estate of her
husband, and, in consideration of the sum of $150,000, paid to
her by the trustees of the bank, and of a release by them of all
claim upon the other estate of the deceased, she executed, on
.8th of February, 1840, a deed of release of the mortgaged property, containing the following recitals aid covenants. "This
indenture, made, &c., between Anne Hitchcock, widow and sole
devisee of Henry Hitchcock, acting under and by virtue of the
last will and testament of said Henry Hitchcock, duly proved,
&c., of the first part, and Joseph Cowperthwaite, ,&c., of the second part, witnesseth, that the party of the first part, for, and in
consideration of the sum of $773,352, &c., hath remised, conveyed, and forever quitclaimed, and doth remise, &c., to the
said parties of the second part, all the estate, right, title, in'erest,
use, property, claim, and demand whtsoever, at law as well as
in equity, in possession as well as in reversion of, in, to, or out
of all, and singular, the following described premises, to wit, &c.,
&c.: "To have and to hold all and singular the aforesaid lands,
tenements, improvements, and- appurtenances, unto the said par-.
ties of the second part, the survivors and survivor of them, and
the heirs, executors, administrators, and 'assigns of said survivor
to their own proper use, benefit, and behoof forever; so that
neither the said party of the first part, her heirs orr assigns, nor
any person or persons whatso.ever, in trust for them or her, or in
her or their name or names, can or may, by any ways or means
whatsoever, hereafter have, claim, challenge, or demand any right,
title, interest or estate of, in, to, or out of all and singular the
premises above described, and hereby released and conveyed;
but therefrom and thereout are and shall be by these presents
forever excluded and debarred."
By. the law of Alabama, the widG zr is allowed one year after
probate of the will to make her election, whether to take under
it or not. The will of Henry Hitchcock was admitted to probate on the, 17th August, 1839, and 9in the 14th of August, 1840,
the widow filed her election, renouncing all benefit ufider .the
will and electing to take her dower. This bill was filed on the
29th of April, 1847, nearly seven years afterwards.
She makes no offer in her bill to restore the sum of $150,000
paid to her or her agent, or to surrender the release given to her
by the trustees of the bank which was the consideration paid for

DECEMIBER TERM, 1851.

271

Dundas et al. v. Hitchcock.

her release, but contends that she is remitted to her original
rights by her last election, and is not estopped by her deed which
was merely the execution of a power, and could not affect her
personal right, or bar her claim to dower in the land conveyed or
released.
It is admitted, that the mere equity of redemption of this property was worth nothing; on the contrary, the other property of
the mortgagor would have been liable for a large portion of the
bond which accompanied the mortgage. Yet, it is contended,
that the widow may elect to take under this devise in the will;
that, under pretence and belief of such election, she may get her
husband's estate released from a debt and receive a large consideration in money for a release of her title as "sole devisee,"
and afterwards change her election, defeat all the covenants of
her own deed, and yet retain the whole consideration paid for
it. It is not worth while to examine what acts of a widow
amount to an election in pais to take under the will. It is clear
she cannot take possession, under the will and sell the title in
fee conferred upon her by the. devises in it, and then revoke her
grant by changing her election within the year. The time given
to the widow by the law, to make her election, is intended for
her protection, and not that she shall use it as a weapon of.
offence to defraud others. Courts of equity do not exert their
powers, even in favor of widows, to assist them in such a transaction. The deed executed by the complainant in 1840 is an
estoppel, both in law and equity, against this claim of dower.
By this deed, she professes to convey, as "widow," "sole devisee," and under the powers vested in her -by the will. She releases all claim or demand in law or equity, in possession or
expectancy, "so that neither she, nor her heirs, can or may, by
any ways or means whatsoever, hereafter have, claim, challenge,
or demand any right, title, interest, or estate in the premises."
It is hard to conceive how any conveyancer could devise language more comprehensive, or legal phraseology mord stringent,
to convey every possible estate of the grantor and operate as a
perfect legal estoppel against all possible clair in any character
whatever. If this had been a mere naked power of appointment,
or to make a conveyance of the title of the deceased, not coupled
with an interest, and the widow had intended merely to exercise
such power without affecting her own right in the property, her
deed should have been carefully drawn,,so as to show on its face
an intention to save her own rights, if she did not intend to convey them. For, it is a settled rule of construction, that "whoever conveys to a purchaser, without restraining the operation of his conveyance, shall be deemed to convey in every
character, which enabled him to give effect to. his deed."

272

SUPREME COURT.
Clark et aL v. Barnwell et al.

Sugden on Powers, 82; Coxe v. Chamberlain, 4 Yes. Jr.
637, &c.
This case is much stronger against the grantor; for her deed
was worthless, unless she had elected to take the devise under
thd will, and having recited in her deed, that she was "widow
and -sole devisee," she is thereby estopped from denying that
she conveyed all rights held in either character, or, as betveen
her and the grantees, ever asserting that she had not elected to
take as sole devisee.
Being, therefore, of opinion, that the complainant below is
doubly estopped from setting up this claim of dower, it will be
unnecessary to consider the third point of defence urged by appellant's counsel, as to the effect of the decree of foreclosure.
The decree of the Circuit Court is therefore reversed, and
the bill dismissed with costs.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record, from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Alabama, and was argued by counsel
On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged, and
decreed by this court, that the decree of the said Circuit Court in
this cause be, and the same is hereby, reversed, with costs; and
that this cause be, and the same is hereby, remanded to the said
Circuit Court, with directions to dismiss the bill of complaint
with costs.

TRISTRAM CLARK, ROYAL WILLIAMS, EBENEZER MOLELLAN,
THOMAS McLELLAN, AND JAMES R. S. WILLIAMS, CLAIMANTS OF THE BAACQUE SusAN W. LIND, APPELLANTS, V. NATHANIEL BARNWEILL AND JAMES RAiVENEL, COPARTNERS TRADING UNDER THE. FIRM OF BARNWELL & RAyENEL.

Where goods are shipped and the usual bill of lading given, "promising to deliver
them in good order, the dangers of the seas excepted," and they are found to be

damaged, the onus probandi is upon the owners of the vessel, to show that the
injury was occasioned by one of the excepted causes.
But,'although the injury may have been occasioned by one of the excepted causes,
y t still the owners of the vessel are responsible if the injury might have been
avoided, by the exercise of reasonable skill and attention on the part of the persons employed in the conveyance of the goods. But the onus probandithen becomes
shifted upon the shipper, to show the negligence.

Wb zre spools of cotton thread, put up in boxes, were shipped at Liverpool for Charleston, and the vessel had a voyage of sixty-one days, going far south into a warm
climate, and the thread was an article peculiarly subject to the effect of dampness,

some of the inside boxes being stained, whilst tie outuide ones were not the cargo

