SUPREME COURT.
Bein et al. v. Heath.

iana law. Andthe opinion of the court, accordingto the practice
in that State, is entered on the record, and sets forth the principles of law upon which the decision was made. And it appears
that the decision turned upon the construction (not the validity) of the. act of Mississippi of 1840; and upon a question of
merely local law, concerning the right by prescription claimed
by the trustees.
Nothing is said in relation to the constitutionality or validity
of this act of Mississippi, and the opinion of the court clearly
shows that no such question was raised or decided.
This writ of error must therefore be dismissed for want of
jurisdiction.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Supreme Court of the State of Louisiana, and was
argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here
ordered and adjudged by this court, that this cause be, and the
same is hereby, dismissed for the want of jurisdiction.

MARY BEIN, AND RICHARD BEIN, HER HUSBAND, G. S. HAWKINS,
AND JAMES M'MASTERS, E.TAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. MARY HEA&TH.
The proper condition of an injunction-bond is "to answer all damages which the
defendant may sustain in consequence of the injunction being granted."
Where a bond was given in order to obtain an injunction to suspend proceedings
under an order of seizure and sale, and the condition was that the principal and
sureties "would pay to the plaintiff, in the case of seizure and sale, all such damages as he may recover against us, in case it should be decided that the said injunction was wrongfully obtained," this bond was irregular.
It conformed to tie Louisiana practice, by which, if an injunction be dissolved judgment is at once given for the debt, interest, and damages, against the principal and
sureties in the injunction-bond.
Bat the equity practice in the courts of the United States is regulated by the laws of
Congress', and the rules of this court made under the authority of an act of Congress; and- one of those rules is, that, when not otherwise directed, the practice in
the High Court of Chancery, in England, shall be followed.
According to these rules, a court of equity cannot, when it dissolves an injunction,
give judgment, at the same time, against the obligors. It merely orders the dissolution, ldaving the obligee to proceed at law again3t the sureties, if he sustains
damage from the delay occasioned by the injunction.

THis case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States, for the Eastern District of Louis.
iana.
It was ar action brought by the defendant in error upon an
inunction-bond, and was a consequence of the case of Bein et
. -v. Heath, reported in 6 Howard, 228.

DECEMBER

TERM,

1851.

169

Bein et al. v. Heath.

A brief recital of the circumstances may be necessary.
In May, 1838, Mary Heath lent some money to Mary Bein,
the wife of Richard Bein, and took a mortgage upon the separate property of the wife to secure the payment of two notes,
one for $10,711.71, and the other for $535.50.
In 1840 Richard Bein applied for the benefit of the insolvent
law, notwithstanding which the interest upon the loan continued to be paid to Mary Heath, until 1842.
The interest then becoming in arrear, Mary Heath applied for,
and obtained, a writ of seizure and sale of the mortgaged property in May, 1843.
Bein and wife then filed a bill in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of Louisiana, to, set aside
the mortgage, upon the ground that it was' not executed cQnformably to law, and praying for an injunction to suspend proceedings, under the order of seizure and sale. On the 28th
June, 1843, the court passed the order directing the injunction
to issue as prayed, upon the complainants giving a bond with
certain sureties named in the order, to answer all damages
which the defendant in that suit might sustain in consequence
of said injunction being granted, should the same be thereafter
dissolved.
On the 21st of June, 1843, a bond was executed in the penalty of $3,000, signed by Mary Bein, G. S. Hawkins, and James
MeMasters; but instead of the condition being in the manner
prescribed by the court, it was as follows:" Now the condition of the above obligation is, that we, the
above bound Mary Bein, Gilbert S. Hawkins, and James MeMasters, sureties, will well and truly pay to the said Mary Heath,
the defendant in said injunction and plaintiff in said case of
seizure and sale, all such damages as she may recover against
us, in case it should be decided that the said injunction was
wrongfully obtained.

Signed,

AL BE N,
G. S. HAwxiis,
JAMES McMASTERS."

Upon the trial of the cause in the Circuit Court, that court
decided that the mortgage was well executed, and dissolved the
injunction. Bein and wife appealed to this court. It came up
for hearing at January term, 1848, and is reported in 6 How.
228. This court having affirmed the judgment of the Circuit
Court, the order of seizure and sale became released from the in.
junction, and was executed by the marshal. The mortgaged
property was sold for only $7000.
In December, 1848, Mary Heath brought a suit, by way of

170

SUPREM E" COURT.
Bein et al. v. Heath.

petition, upon the injunction-bond%alleging that she was greatly
damaged by the wrongful issuance of said injunction; that
she encountered long delays in obtaining any portion of the sum
due to her; that she incurred many and heavy expenses in consequence of the said injunction, and was subjected to great vexation and trouble.
That she is entitled by law to damages, at the rate of ten per
cent. per annum upon the 'amount enjoined; that she has paid
various large sums to lawyers for their professional services in
defending said 'injunction, and in getting the same dissolved,
viz., to Messrs. Ellmore & King, attorneys at law, seven hundred dollars; to John R. Grymes, attorney at law, five hundred
dollars; to J. W. Smith, five hundred dollars; and to attorneys
and counsellors in Washington to attend the argument of the
case in the Supreme Court -to Walter Jones, attorney at law,
Bradley, Esq., attortwo hundred and fifty dollars, and to ney at law, two hundred and fifty dollars.
That the trouble and labor of the petitioner was an injury to
her of at least one thousand dollars.
That the damages thus caused to the defendant, as above alleged, amount to about eight thousand six hundred dollars,
which the said Mary Bein and the said Gilbert S. Hawkin are
bound in solido to pay to the petitioner, by virtue of the foregoing. allegations, and the bond signed by them to, the extent of
three thousand dollars. As the damages greatly exceed the
amount of the bond, the petitioner is entitled to judgment against
the defendant for the whole penal sum of the said bond, viz., for
three thousand dollars, with interest from the date of judicial
demand.
To this petition the general issue was pleaded, and in May,
1849, the cause came on for trial before the court, a jury being
waived by agreement.
Two bills of exceptions were taken to rulings of the court in
admitting certain evidence, as follows:
Circuit Court of the United States,

ifth Circuit.

Be it known, that on the trial of the above suit, the counsel
for the plaintiff, to maintain the allegations of his petition, offered to prove by witnesses the amount of fees paid by the plaintiff to Elmore & King, J. R. Grymes, and J. W. Smith, Esqrs.,
her attorneys in the court below, in the suit in chancery of Bein
and wife against said Heath, and in the proceedings had in the
seizure and sale obtained by said Heath against said Bein, which
said seizure and sale were enjoined in said suit in chancery, to
the introduction of which the defendants, by their counsel, objecte 1 on the ground that the employment of said counsel by

171

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.
Bein et al. v. Heath.

said plaintiff occurred before the issuing of the"injunction and
executing and filing of the injunction-bond in the suit, and be.
fore the said defendants had incurred any obligation to pay any
damages, interest, or costs in said suit
And at the same time and place the said plaintiff, to maintain
the allegations in her said petition, offered to prove by an attorney at law the supposed value- of the legal services rendered by
the counsel for the plaintiff, in the said chancery suit in the Supreme Court of the United States; to the introduction of which
said evidence the defendants, by their counsel, objected, on the
ground that no evidence could be offered of a quantum meruit,
under the issue formed between the parties aforesaid, the plaintiff in her petition having pleaded the payment to said counsel
of a specific sum of money as their fees. Bit the court being
of the opinion that all of said evidence was admissible, received the same. WNVhereupon the counsel for the defendant excepted to both rulings of the court as contrary to law,"and prays that
the bill of exceptions may be signed and sealed, and made a part
of the record, which is accordingly done.
THEO. H.'MCCALEB, [SEAL.]

Circuit Court of the United States, for the Fifth Circuit and
Distri-itof Louisiana.
Be it known, that on the trial of this suit the plaintiff, by her
counsel
, to maintain the allegations of her petition, offered to prove that a large portion of the rent of the
mortgaged premises, for the sale of.which she had issued against
Mary Bein her executory process, has not been paid over to her
by the tenant to whom the premises had been leased before the
issuing of the injunction to stay said processi to the introduction of which evidence the defendants, by their counsel, objected
as irrelevant to the issue joined, and bec-ause the court had
appointed the marshal cf the United States the receiver to collect said rent, and to hold the same subject to the final judgment
of the court; and that the loss of said rent constituted no part of
the damage sustained by the plaintiff by the issuing of the in.
junction, for which the defendants are legally liable on the
injunction bond sued on; but the court being of the opinion
that said evidence was admissible, received the same. To the
admission of which said evidence the defendants, by their counsel, except and pray that this their bill of exceptions may be
Signed, sealed, and made a part of the record, which is done.
THO. H. MCCALEB, [SEAL.]

U. a. udge

172

SUPREME COURT.
Bein ot al. v. Heath.

On the 14th of May, 1849, the court pronounced its judgmen
and after sundry proceedings which it is not necessary to state,
on the 15th of June, 1849, the judgment was signed as follows:

Judgnent.
MARY HEATH

)

No. 1751.
and RICHARD BEIN et al.)
The parties herein having waived the jury and submitted this
case to the court, after argument on the evidence, id the court
being satisfied from the evidence, that the plainti'. has suffered
damages from the injunction obtained by Mary Bein and her
husband, to a greater extent than the amount of the penalty in
the bond sued on, and that the plaintiff is entitled to recover in
this suit to the extent of the penalty of the bond against the defendants in solido :
It is hereby ordered, adjudged, and decreed, that the plaintiff
have judgment against Mary Bein and Gilbert S. Hawkins, and
James McMasters, in solido, for the sum of three thbusand dollars, with interest from the second day of December, A. D. 1848,
until paid, and costs of suit.
Judgment rendered 14th May, 1849.
Signed 15th June, 1849.
V.

MARY

THEo. H. MCCALE-B, [SEAL.1

U. S. Ju'4e.

On the 19th of June, the court passed the following order:
On motion of - Eggleston, Esq., of counsel for defendants, and
on his representing to the court that the said defendants felt aggrieved at the judgment herein rendered on the 15th instant, and
that they desire to have a writ of error, that the proceedings
may be reyiewed in a higher court, it is ordered, that a writ of
error be, and the same is, hereby allowed to the said defendants,
returnable to the next term of the Supreme Court of the United
States, 6n their furnishing bond with S. W. Oakey, as surety,
in the penal sun! of four thousand six hundred dollars, conditioned as the law requires.
Upon this writ of error, the case came up to this court.
It was argued by Ar. Coxe, for the plaintiffs in error, and Mr.
Bradley, for the defendant.

Mr. Ooxe, for the plaintiffs in error, made the following
points
1. Under the law of Louisiana, no action of debt will lie -upon

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.
Bein et al v. Heath.

an injunction bond for the purpose of fixing the damages. The
act of 25th March, ยง 3, p. 102, declares that, on the trial of in.
j4unction, the surety on the bond shall be considered as a party
plaintiff in the suit; and, in case the injunction is dissolved,
the court, in the same judgment, shall condemn the plaintiff and
surety, jointly and severally, to pay the defendant interest at the
rate of ten per centum, &c. McMillen v. (xibson, 10 Louis. Rep.
518, 519. This statute always received a'rigorous constrution, De Lizardi v. Hardaway, 8 Rob. 21. Where the sum
enjoined carries the highest conventional interest, further interest will not be allowed on a dissolution. See, also, McCarty
v. McCarty, 19 Louis. 200; Dabbe v. Hernken, 3 Rob. 125;
Erwin v. Bank of Louisiana 5 Louis. Ann. Rep.; Maxwell v.
Mallard, lb. 702.
2. In an action on a penal bond, and especially against sureties, no damages can be recovered, except such as are proved to
have resulted from a breach of the condition; and such breach
must be distinctly averred in the pleadings.
The condition of the bond in this case is, to pay M. H. all
such damages as she may recover against us, in cdse it should
be decided that the said injunction was wrongfully obtained.
No breach of this condition is alleged or proved. It obviously
was framed with a view to the Louisiana statute. The damages must have been ascertained in the suit in which the injunction was obtained; and then the payment of such damages as
shall have been awarded may be recovered on failure to pay
them. The fees paid to the Louisiana counsel were allowed to
be proved, although, as the first exception shows, they were paid
to them as attorneys, not only in the suit in chancery in which
the injunction was obtained and the injunction-bond given, but
also in the proceedings had in reference to the seizure and sale.
These proceedings were anterior to and independent of the injunction, and the fees paid in them cannot, under any proper
pleadings upon any foim of an injunction-bond, constitute an
item of damage to be recovered in an action upon such bond.
The item for fees paid to the counsel in the Supreme Court,
was inadmissible upon two grounds. 1st. The plaintiff, in her
petition alleges that the injunction was dissolved by the decree
of the Circuit Court. The injunction was, in fact, dissolved
July 27, 1844. At that day, the responsibility of the obligors
was fixed; for the damages sustained up to that time from the
injunction they were answerable, but for none accruing subsequently, in the further progress of the cause. 2d. The petition
avers that the sum of two hundred and fifty dollars was paid to
each of the Washington counsel; the exception shows that plaintiff offered to prove, by an attorney-at-law, the supposed value
150

174

SUPREME COURT.
Bein et al v. Heath.

of the legal services rendered by the counsel in the Supreme
Court. This was objected to, but the objection was overruled.
We submit that this was error. It is in express contradiction
of the decisions in Louisiana. In Brashiers v. Wilkins, 9 Rob.
67, it was ruled that one who has obtained a dissolution of the
injunction cannot recover for attorney's fees as special damages,
where the evidence does not show that any was actually paid,
but only the value of the services. Rhodes v. Skolfield, 10
Rob. 133. No counsel fees allowed as special damages where
none proved to have been paid.
3. The non-payment of the rents by the tenant of the mortgaged premises constitutes no breach of the condition of the injunction-bond, for which the obligors are responsible. These
parties never became sureties for the tenant; they never understood that he should pay any thing to the plaintiff The peti.
tion in this case charges no such obligation, and avers no breach
of it. The charge. has no foundation in law.
The exception, however, sets forth as a specific ground of exeeption that the court had appointed the marshal tq be the
receiver to collect these rents, and to hold the same subject to
the final judgment of the court. To enforce this item of claim
against these parties would be to make them, by a most strained
construction of their bond, sureties for the tenant that he would
pay his rent, and then sureties for the marshal that he should
faithfully discharge his trust.
Upon each and every of these grounds, it is submitted that the
judgment of the Circuit Court should be reversed.
4I1r. Bradle/, for the defendant in error, contended:
That, by the laws -of Louisiana, the party suing qut an injunction shall be answerable for all such damages as may have
been sustained by the _defendant, in case it should be decided
that the injunction had been wrongfully obtained. Co. Prac.
art. 304.
By the act of 25th March, 1831, (Greiner's Dig. art. 1602,) it
is further provided that, on the trial of an injunction, the surety
on the bond.shall be condemned with the principal in the same
judgment, in case the injunction shall be dissolved, to pay interest at the rate of ten per cent. per annum on the amount of the
judgment, and not more than twenty per *cent.damages, unless
damages to a greater amount be proved.
After an injunction issues against an order of seizure and
sale, no proceedings can takeplace under the latter process until
the injunction is finally disposed of. And, if the plaintiff be
nonsuited, he may take a suspensive appeal therefrom, on giving
his bond for a sum exceeding one -half the amount of the

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.
Bein et al v.

175

Heath.

judgment against him. And in case the plaintiff, in the order
of seizure, attempt to sell under-it, he may be restrained by a
writ of prohibition from the Supreme Court, until the injunction suit be finally disposed of in that tribunal. State v. Judge
Buchanaii, 19 La. 171. A suspensive appeal is defined in
arts. 575, 578, Lou. Co. Prac.
In this case, the proceeding was to subject real estate to sale,
and thebond was taken in time, -within ten days after the execution of the judgment, in a sum directed by the judge, under
article 578.
The injunction was not finally disposed of by this court until
January term, 1848, and no action could be maintained on the
bond until after that dissolution.
The remedy may be by action on the bond, and it is sufficient
to allege the order of seizure and sale, the interruption of its execution by the injunction; its dissolution, the damages sustained
thereby by the plaintiff, and the failure of the principal and his
surety to comply with their engagement Pennimian v. Richardson, 3 La. 103; Florance v. Nixon, 1b. 291; and see 2 Rob.
180, 1b. 213.
The damages claimed are for long delays in obtaining any
portion of the sum due to her; many and heavy expenses in
consequence of the injunction, and great vexation and trouble.
She shows that the property mortgaged sold for the sum of
seven thousand dollars only, leaving a large amount still due;
and that she paid large sums to attorneys and counsel for professional services in defending the said injunction suit.
By law, in the discretion .of the judge, she is entitled to damages not exceeding twenty per cent. on the amount of the judgment enjoined. If she claims more she must plead it specially,*
and prove it. Landry v. L'Eglise, 3 L. R. 221. And counselfees may be allowed as special damage, over and above the
twenty per cent. lb.; Benton v. Roberts, 3 Rob. 226; Ricard's
heirs v. Heriart, 5 La. 245; Wilcox v. Bundy, 13 La. 381; Pargrout v. Morgan, 2 La. 102.
The allowance of special damages and interest is within the
discretion of the court. Arnous v. Lessessier, 12 La. 126.
And where it appears plaintiff is acting wholly in bad faith in
suing out an injunction, he will be visited with the full measure of damages and interest. Selby v. Merrienneaux, 11 *La.
485. And counsel fees mpy be allowed, although they have not
in fact been paid. Brown v. Lambeth, 2 Lou. Ann. Rep. 822.
Farrar v. The New Orleans Gas-Light Company, 1b. 878.
There could be no objection to the admissibility of the proof
in the second branch of the first, exception. Although the claim
was for a specific sum, it was not founded on an express con-

SUPREME COURT.
Bein et al. v.

Heath.

tract or agreement between Mrs. Heath and Mrs. Bein and her
securities.- It was for the court to say whether the sums paid
were reasonable or not; and if the plaintiff had proved that she
had paid a specific sum for the services of the counsel, she
would not necessarily have been entitled to that, but only to so
much as the judge should find was reasonable.
But, in the absence of proof of the payment of a specific
sum, it was clearly competent for her to show what would be
a reasonable allowance.
In regard to the second exception, it seems quite clear that
the evidence objected to was admissible to show the damages
which the plaintiff had sustained by the injunction. The basis
of the law, allowing damages beyond interest, is indemnity. It
is intended not only to secure the payment of the interest and
costs, but the consequential injuries resulting from the unjust
obstruction of legal process, and, for the trouble, expense, and
actual loss. Now, part of the injury here, was clearly occasioned
by the plaintiff's interference by this in~unction, which, in its
progress, caused the loss of those rents, the receipt of which
might have gone far to diminish the amrount of the debt and
interest, and thereby the loss has been enhanced beyond the penalty of the bond.
And, finally, the whole question of fact was tried by the court.
The interest alone, at ten per cent., would amount to much more
than the whole penalty of the bond; and damages atvtwenty per
cent., would be equal to two thirds, and the counsel fees paid and
proved, added to this, also exceed it; and whether the judgment
is for interest or for damages, justice has been done between the
parties by the judgment; and the evidence which was admitted
can have done no harm to the plaintiff in error, and could not
have affected the decision one way or the other.
Mr., Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the
court.
This is an action on an injunction-bond given by Mary Bein,
one of the plaintiffs in error in a suit in equity in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Louisiana, in which Bein and wife were complainants, and Mary
Heath. the present defendant in error, the respondent.
It appears that Mary Bein executed certain promissory. notes
for the'payment of a large sum of money, and mortgaged her
separate and individual property to secure the debt. These
notes and the mortgage became the property of Mary Heath,
as the legal representative of Shermar; Heath, who loaned the
mcuey for which they were given, and who died before any proceedings *ere instituted to recover it.

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

177

Bein et al. v. Heath.

The. notes not being paid, Mary Heath obtained a writ for
the seizure and sale of the mortgaged premises, according to
the laws of Louisiana. And Bein and wife thereupon filed
their bill in the Circuit Court of the United States, setting
forth that the separate property of Mary Bein, which had been
seized, was not legally or equitably chargeable with the payment of this debt, and praying an injunction to stay the sale.
It is unnecessary to state the grounds on which the complainants asked relief, as the merits of that controversy are not involved in the present suit. The court passed the order directing the injunction to issue, as prayed, upon the complainants
giving a bond with certain sureties named in the order, to answer all damages which the defendant in that suit might sustain
in consequence of said injunction being granted, should the
same be thereafter dissolved.
The bond was given in the penalty, and with the sureties,
mentioned in the order. -But,instead of making the condition
such as the court had directed, which was the proper one, according to established chancery practice, the complainants adopted,
we presume, the form used in the State courts of Louisiana, in
cases where the law requires an injunction-bond to stay execution on a judgment or order of seizure and sale. The condition
is as follows:
"Now, the condition of the above obligation is, that we, the
above bounden Mary Bein, and Gilbert S. Hawkins, (and)
James McMasters, sureties, will well and truly pay, to the said
Mary Heath, the defendant in said injunction, and plaintiff in
said case of seizure and sale, all such damages as she may
recover against us, in case it should be decided that the said
injunction was wrongfully obtained."
The injunction, however, was issued by the clerk upon the
filing of this bond. And the suit proceeded to final hearing, when the court passed the following decree:
"This cause came on for trial on the 29th day of May, 1844,
and was argued by counsel; wherefore, in consideration of the
law and the evidence, and the rules and principles of equity
being in favor of the respondent, Mary Heath, it is ordered,
adjudged, and decreed, that the complainant 1e dismissed with
costs. And it is further ordered, adjudged, and decreed, that
the injunction granted in this case be dissolved, and the respondent be allowed to proceed with the writ of seizure and
sale granted, in accordance with the prayer of her original petition."
The complainants appealed to this court, and, after argument
by counsel, the decree of the Circuit Court was affirmed, with
costs. And, thereupon, the present defendant in error brought

178

SUPREME COURT.
Bein et al. v. Heata.

the suit whi6h is now before us, upon the injunction-bond
hereinbefore stated, to recover certain damages stated in her
petition, for which she alleges the obligors in that bond are
liable. The suit is by petition, in the usual form of Louisiana
practice, and the judgment of the Circuit Court being in favor
of the plaintiff in that suit, the plaintiffs in error, who were
defendants in the court below, have brought the case before this
court.
It appears, from the exceptions, and the judgment in the case,
that the Circuit Court regarded this bond as the same in principle with the bond required by the laws of Louisiana, where
an injunction is obtained to stay execution upon an order for
the seizure and sale of*mortgaged property; and therefore considered this bond as creating the same obligations and giving
the same rights to parties as if it had been given under the laws
of the State. And by these laws, when the party obtains an
injunction, and fails to support it at the trial, judgment is given
against him and his sureties for the debt, interest, and damages,
at the time the injunction is dissolved, and it forms part of the
same judgn .ent. 8 Rob. 20. The sureties in the bond are treated
as parties ta the suit; and the amount of interest and damages
which the court may award by their judgment is regulated by
the laws of the State. It is with reference to this mode of proceeding that the injunction-bond in question appears to have
been framed; and it is to this judgment, as prescribed by the
laws of the State, that the condition must refer, when it binds
the obligors to pay all such damages the obligee might recover
against them, in case it should be decided that the injunction
was wrongfully obtained. There must be a recovery, that is, a
judgment against them, before the condition is broken, and
before any proceeding could be had upon the bond.
Now,.there is manifest error in subjecting the parties to an
injunction-bond, given in a proceeding *i equity in a court of
the United States, to the laws of the State. The proceeding
in a circuit court of the United States in equity is regulated by
the laws of Congress, and the rules of this court made under the
authority of an act of Congress. And the 90th rule declares
that, when not otherwise directed, the practice of the High
Court of Chancery in England, shall be followed. The 8th rule
authorizes the Circuit Court, both judges concurring, to modify
the process and practice in their respective districts. Blit this
applies only to forms of proceeding and mode of practice, and
certainly would not authorize the adoption of the Louisiana
law, defining the rights and obligations of parties to an injunction-bond. Nor do we suppose any such rule has been adopted
by the court. And if it has, it is unauthorized by lawl and cannot regulate the rights or obligations of the parties.*

DECEMBER TERM,
Bein et al v.

1851.

179

Heath.

And when an injunction is applied for in the Circuit Cour
of the United States sitting in Louisiana, the court grant it or
not, according to the established principles of equity, and not
according to the laws and practice of the State in which there
is no conrt of chancery, as contradistinguished from a court of
common law. And they require a bond, or not, from the complainant, with sureties, before the injunction issues, as the court,
in the exercise of a sound discretion, may deem it proper for the
purposes of justice. And if, in the judgment of the court, the
principles of equity require that a bond should be given, it prescribes the penalty and the condition also. And the condition
prescribed by the court in this case, but which-was not followed,
is the one usually directed by the court.
In proceeding upon such a bond, the court would have no
authority to apply to it the legislative provisions of the State.
The obligors would be answerable for any damage or cost which
the adverse party sustained, by reason of the, injunction, from
the time it was issued until it was dissolved, but to nothing
more. They would certainly not be liable for any aggravated
interest on the debt, nor for the debt itself, unless it was lost by
the delay, nor for the fees paid to the counsel for conducting the
suit.
But the bond, in the case before us, is not one to pay the
damages which the opposing party should sustain by reason of
the injunction, but it is to pay the damages that might be recovered against them; obviously referring, we think, to the practice
in Louisiana above mentioned. A court proceeding, according
to the rules of equity, cannot give a judgment against the obligors in an injunction-bond when it dissolves the injunction.
It merely orders the dissolution, leaving the obligee to proceed
at law against the sureties, if he sustains damage from the
delay occasioned by the injunction. This was done by the
Circuit Court in the former suit between the parties. No judgment was or could be given against the obligors for debt or
damages, and none were recovered against them previously to
the institution of this suit. The contingency on which they
agreed to pay, has not, therefore, happened, and the condition
of the bond is not broken, and consequently no action can be
maintained upon it. It would be against the well-established
rule of the chancery court to extend the liability of the surety,
by any equitable construction, beyond the terms of his contract. And, in a proceeding upon the bond, the liabili r of
the principal obligor cannot be extended beyond that of the
surety.
In this view of the case, it is unnecessary to examine the
questions which have been raised as to the Lousiana laws in

180

SUPREME

COURT.

Wilbur v. Almy.

relation to injunction-bonds. The, judgment of the Circuit
Court must be reversed, and a venire de novo awarded.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record, from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Louisiana, and was argued by counsel.
On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged
by this court, that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in
this cause be, and the same is hereby, reversed, with costs; and
that this cause be, and the same is hereby, remanded to the said
Circuit Court for further proceedings to be had therein, in conformity to the opinion of this court.

PELEG WILBUR, APPELLANT , V. SAMSON ALmY.

Where there were two trustees of the property of insolvents, and one of them ma4e
an assignment, but the other neither joined in it nor assented to it afterwards, the
assignment was void.

And in the present case, also, the assignee appears to have received an assignment of
the property only as security, until its profits should pay a debt due to him by the
insolvents.

That debt being extinguished, he has no right, as owner, to claim an

account of further profits from the holder of the property.

THis was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Rhode Island, sitting as a court of
equity.
The facts in the case are stated in the opinion of the court,
to which the reader is referred.
It was argued by Ar. Rockwell and Mr. ohnson for the appellant, and Mr. Bradley for the appellee. The following are
the points made by the counsel respectively, upon each of which
numerous references were made to the evidence in the record.
Points by the counsel for the appellant.
I. The assignment to the plaintiff, Almy, was void. Charles
Low and Thomas R. Hazard were the assignees of R. G. Hazard & Co., and the conveyance to Almy was made by R. G.
Hazard and R. G. Hazard & Co., and assented to by Thomas
R. Hazard alone, but was never authorized nor assented to by
Charles Low, the other assignee. 2 Story's Eq. Dig. 521, ยง 1280;
Ex parte Rigby, 19 Ves. 463; 1 P. Wins. 241; 3 Atk. 584;
Lewin on Trusts, 265; 1 Cruise's Dig. 455; Sinclair v. Jackson,
8 Cow. 543, 553- 554, 582-584.
II. The assignment to the plaintiff; Almy, of 9th March,

