DECEMBER TERM,

1851.

293

Achison v. Huddleson.

ity." We are satisfied that there was no error in the decision
of the Court of Appeals in this case, and the same is affirmed by
this court.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Supreme Court of the State of New York, and
was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now
here ordered and adjudged, by this court, that the judgment of
the Court of Appeals of the said State of New York in this
cause, and as remitted to the said Supreme Court be, and the
same is hereby affirmed, with costs.

JAMES C.

AcHISON, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. JONATHAN HUDDLESON.

Under an act passed by the State of Maryland, and an assent given to it by Congres', no toll .ould be levied, for passing over the Cumberland Road, upon coaches
which carried the United States mail.
In 1843,the Legislature of Maryland passed an act imposing a toll upon all passengers in moil-Loaches, and if it were not paid, a toll of one dollar for each coach for
every time that it passed over the road.
The toll upo. passengers in mail-coaches was inconsistent with the compact made
between Maryland and Congress, and therefore void.
And the toll per coach, of one dollar, is more properly a comitutation of tolls than a
penalty, and therefore void also.

THis case was brought up from the Court of Appeals of Maryland, by a writ of error issued under the 25th section of the
Judiciary. Act.
It was originally a suit brought in the County Court of Alleghany County, in 11Iarvland, by Jonathan Huddleson, superintendent of that part of the United States Road within the limit§
of the State of Maryland, against Stockton, Falls, Moore, and
Achison, trading under the firm and style of Stockton, Falls &
Co., who were the contractors for carrying the mail across the
Alleghany Mountains.
The acts of Congress and of the States through which the
Cumberland Road passes, were set forth in 3 How. 151, 720. A
brief summary is all that is now required:
In 1832, the State of Maryland passed an act relative to the
Cumberland Road, proposing to collect certain tolls upon it for
the purpose of kedping it in repair. This act contained the fol-

lowing:I

SUPREME

COURT.

.Achison v. Huddleson.

"And provided further, That no tolls shall be received or collected for the passage of any wagon or carriage laden with the
property of the United States, or any'cannon or military stores
belonging to the United States, or to any of the States composing this Union."
The Congress of the United States, by an act approved July
Od, 1832, entitled "An act making appropriations for certain internal improvements for the year 1832," gave the assent of Congress to the provisions of the aforesaid act of the Legislature of
Maryland, in the words followingi to wit: 'And of an act of
the General Assembly of the State of Maryland, entitled 'An
act for the preserlation and repair of that part of the United
States road within the limits of the State of Maryland, passed
the twenty-third day of January, one thousand eight hundred
and thirty-two;' to which said acts the assent of the United
States is hereby given, to remain in force during the pleasure of
Congress."
It was admitted by agreement of counsel that Stockton, Falls
&, Co., during the whole time for which the charge for the transit of stages upon the said United States road was made, were
the -carriers of the United States mails, in four-horse postcoaches, under a contract with the Postmaster-General of the
United States, two articles of which looked to the transportation
of, passengers with the mail.
On the 10th March, 1843, the Legislature of Maryland passed
an act, the first three sections of which were as follows:
"Sect, 1. Be it enacted, by the General Assembly of Maryland,
that from and after the passage of this act there shall be de.
manded and received by the toll-collectors on that part of the
United States road, within the limits of the State of Maryland,
-from the owner or owners of every passenger or mail-coach or
stage passing the gates on said road, the sum of four cents
for every passenger carried in the same, for every space of ten
miles on said road, and so in proportion for every greater or less
distance, which shall be taken and, received in lieu of the tolls
now established by law on all coaches or stages with four horses
passing over said road, aud, which shall be collected, paid out,
and expended as other tolls on said road are collected, paid out
and expended, under existing laws.
"Sec. 2. And be [it] enacted, That it shall be the duty of the
proprietor or proprietors, his, her, or their agent, to furnish under
-oath, on the first Monday of every month, to the gate-keeper at
number one, a list, showing the number of passengers transported
over said road in their respective coaches, for the month next preceding the time when said list is so returned.
"Sect. 3. And be it enacted, That in the event of said proprie.

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.
Achison v. Huddleson.I

tors or agents failing or refusing to comply with the provisions
of the second section of this act, then and in that case it shall
be the duty of the gate-keeper, at gate number one, to demand
of and receive from, such proprietor or proprietors so failing, the
sum of one dollar for each and every stage-coach passing over
said road its entire length.'
In the agreed statement of facts in the County Court, the
counsel further agreed as follows:
"It is agreed that the stage-coaches, for which the sum of one
dollar each is sought to be recovered in this action, were four.
horse stage-coaches, used and employed by the defendants in
the transportation of the United States mails, under the contract
in that behalf before mentioned, and that the passengers for the
failure of the defendants to furnish the lists of whom, under the
act of Legislature of Maryland last above mentioned, the said
sum of one dollar -per stage-coach is charged and demanded in
this action, were passengers transported in the said coaches, carrying the said United States mails as aforesaid.
It is further admitted, that the number of coaches in which
the said mails were carried, were necessary for the said carriage
of the said mails, and that there was no unfairness nor fraud, on
the part of the defendants, in dividing the said mails so as to
use a greater number of coaches for the carriage of said mails
than were actually necessary for such purpose.
It is further admitted, that the defendants did carry passengdrs daily in the said four-horse coaches, and that the said defendants did not comply with the provisions of the second section of the act of the General Assembly of Maryland aforesaid,
passed on the 10th day of March, 1843, as aforesaid, by returning a list on the first Monday of every month, or at any other
time, showing the number of passengers thus transported over
the said road in the said coaches. It is admitted that the said
acts of Assembly of Maryland did not increase the tolls above a
sum necessary to defray the expenses incident to the preservation and repair of said road.
If, upon this statement of facts, the court shall be of opinion
that the plaintiff is entitled to recover, either upon the present
declaration or upon an amended declaration, for the four cents
per passenger for every ten miles, the judgment to be entered
for the plaintiff for seven hundred and sixteen dollars. If the
court shall be of opinion that the plaintiff is not entitled to
recover in either case, then judgment to be given for the defendants; either party will be at liberty to appeal to the Court of
Appeals, or sue out a writ of error."
Upon this statement of ficts, the County Court gave judgment for the plaintiff, for the amount mentioned in the statement.

SUPREME

COURT.

Achison v. Huditleson.

Aehison, who was the representati " of Stockton, Falls, &
Co., carried the case to the Court of Appeais of Maryland, where
the judgment was affirmed, and he then brought it up to this court.
It was argued by Mr. Price and M1fr. Telson, for the plaintiff
in error, and by .Mr. Brick and Ilir. 3McJaig, for the defendant
in error.
The counsel for the plaintiff in error contented that the provisions of the act of Assembly of Maryland, of 1843, were in
violation of the compact between that State and the United
States, and referred to the cases in 3 How. 151, 720.
The counsel for the defendant in error insisted, that this case
is clearly distinguishable' from the cases of Searight v. Stokes
et al. 3 How. 151; and 'Neil, Moore, & Co. v. The State of
Ohio, Id. 720. That the act of Maryland, of the 10th March,
1843, is not liable to the objections which prevailed in -the
cases, in 3 Howard, referred to. That the provision of the
act of 1843, on which this action is founded, embracing all passengers in four-horse ccaches or stages, is not in violation of
either the letter or the spirit of the compact between the State
of Maryland and the United States, con'ained in the Maryland
act, passed January 23d, 1832.
Mr. Justice CURTIS delivered the opinion of the court.
This action was brought by the defendant in error, as superintendent of that part of the National Road lying -within the
State of Maryland, to recover a sum of money from the plaintiff in error, as the owner of stage-coaches passing over that road,
and conveying passengers and the mails of the United States.
The Court of Appeals for the Western Shore of the State of
Maryland having rendered a final judgment in favor of the
plaintiff, the defendant brought the case here by a writ of error,
under the twenty-fiftb section of the Judiciary Act.
The nature and extent of the compact between the United
States and the several States of Ohio, Virginia, Maryland, and
Pennsylvania, touchiag the parts of the road lying within the
limits of each of those States, having 1been much considered
by this court in the cases of Searight v. Stokes, 3 How. 151, and
Neil et al. v. The State of Ohio, Id. 720, it is only necessary to
state some of the conclusions there arrived, at, and apply' them
to the law of Maryland now in question.
In the second of those cases it was decided, that the State of
Ohio could-not change the tolls fixed by its aet, which Congress
assented to, so as. tQ vary the relative position and privileges of
mail-coaches, in regard to tolls, as prescribed by that act.

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

297

Achison v. Huddleson.

This decision is equally applicable to the original act of Maryland, to which Congress gave its assent; and the first inquiry is,
whether the subsequent act of Maryland, now in question, will
bear that test. The second section of the law of Maryland, to
which Congress gave its assent, imposed, among other tolls, the
following: "For every chariot, coach, coachee, stage, wagon,
pheton, chaise, or other carriage, with two horses and four
wheels, twelve cents; for either of the carriages last mentioned,
with four horses, eighteen cents." And, inasmuch as coaches
conveying the mail were not subject to any toll, there was by
this law a discrimination in favor of mail-coaches, their proprietors bearing none of the burden of supporting the road, while
the proprietors of other four-horse coaches did bear a part of that
burden. On the 10th of March, 1843, the General Assembly
of I'Iaryland passed the act now under consideration, the material provisions of which are as follows:
"An act to amend the act entitled a supplement to an act entitled an act for the preservation and repair of that part of the
United States road within the limits of the State of Maryland.
"See. 1. Be it enacted, by the General Assembly of MLaryland, that from and after the passage of this act, there shall be
demanded and received by the toll-collectors on that part of the
United States road, within the limits of the State of Maryland,
from the owner or owners of every passenger or mail-coach or
stage passing the gates on said road, the sum of four cents for
every passenger carried in the -same, for every space of ten miles
on said road, and so in proportion for every greater or less distance, which shall be taken and received in lieu of the tolls now
established by law on all coaches or stages- with four horses
passing over said road, and which shall be collected, paid out,
and expended, as other tolls on said road are collected, paid out,
and expended, under existing laws:
"Sec. 2. And be it enacted, That it shall be the duty of the
proprietor, or proprietors, his. her, or their agent, to furnish under
oath, on the first Monday of every month, to the gate-keeper at
number one, a list showing the number of passengers transported
over said road in their respective coaches, for the month next preceding the time when said list is so returned.
See. 3. And be it enacted, That, in the- event of said proprietors or agents failing or refusing to comply with the provisions of the second section of this act, then, and in that case, it
shall be the duty of the gate-keeper, at gate number one, to demand of, and receive from, such proprietor or proprietors so failing, the sum of one dollar for each. and every stage-coach pass.
ing over said road its entire length."

298

SUPREME

COURT.

Achison v. Huddleson.

The discrimination which, under the original law, was made
in favor of the proprietors of mail-coaches using the road, is not
only destroyed by this law, but all toll is removed from the proprietors of other four-horse coaches, and a toll is imposed upon
the proprietors of mail-coaches. It was held in both the former decisions; that the stipulatio n
the Compact, that the
United States should not thereafter be subject to any expense
to maintain the road, was inconsistent with the imposition
of a'tax upon the-contractors for carrying the mail in fourhorse coaches, because the United States, requiring the mail to
be so carried, would thus indirectly be made, through the enhancement of the price for this service, to bear a part of that
burden. The effect of this law of Maryland *is, therefore, to
impose upon the United States, through the contractors for carrying the mail in four-iorse coaches, a tax for the support of the
road. It is argued that it is a tax upon the passengers, and not
within the former decisions. But we do not so consider it. It'
is true, if he were to carry no passengers, and make the required
returns of that fact, the proprietor would not be liable under this
law to pay anytoll. But the regulations of the Post-Office
Department require him to take passengers for the security of
the mail. If he carry the mail, he must also be a carrier of
passengers; and this law would not have imposed a toll dependent upon the carriage of passengers in inail-coaches, unless it
considered they would be carried. The real effect and meaning
of the law is, therefore, to impose a tax cn the proprietor of a
four-horse coach which carries the mail, making the amount of
that tax depend on the'number of passengers carried. Now, the
objection is not to the amount, but to the existence of the tax.
Not having the power to impose any tax, it is no answer to say,
its amount is regulated by the number of passengers.
This action is brought under the third section of the act to
recover from the proprietor of mail-coaches the sum of one dollar for every mail stage-coach passing over the road. It is contended this is not a toll, but a penalty, for not complying with
the directions contained in the second section of the act, to
make returns. We think it more properly a commutation as
to amount, for the tolls payable under the first section. It fixes
their- amount by operation of law, and without regard to the
number of passengers carried; and is certainly subject to difficulties quite as great as would attend a demand for the tolls,
fnder the first section.
Our opinion is, that, by reason of the compact between the
United States and the State of Maryland, the tolls sued, for
could not. be legally demanded, and that, the decision of the
Court of Appeals was erroneous and must be reversed.

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

299

Cooley v. Board of Wardens of Port of Philadelphia et al.

Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record, from the Court of Appeals of the Western Shore of the
State of Maryland, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court,
that the judgment of the said Court of Appeals in this cause
be, and the same is hereby, reversed, with costs; and that this
cause be, and the same is hereby, remanded to the said Court
of Appeals, in order that such further proceedings may be had
therein, in conformity to the opinion of this court, as to law
and justice may appertain.

AARON B. COOLEY, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. THE BOARD OF
WARDENS OF THE PORT OF PHILADELPHIA, TO THE USE OF THE
SOCIETY FOR THE: RELIEF OF DISTRESSED PILOTS, THEIR WIDOWS AND CHILDREN, DEFENDANTS.
SAME V. SAME.
A law of the State of Pennsylvania, that a vessel which neglects or refuses to take a
pilot shall forfeit and pay to the master -warden of the pilots, for theuse of the Society for the relief of Distressed and Decayed Pilots, their widows and children, one
half the regular amount of pilotage, is an appropriate part of a general system of
regulations on the subject of pilotage, and cannot be considered as a covert attempt
to legislate upon another subjdct, under the appearance of legislating on this one.
Nor can the exemption of American vessels engaged in the Pennsylvania coal-trade
from the npeessity of paying half pilotage, be declared to be other than a fair exercise of legislative discretion, acting upon the subject of the regulation of the pilotagg-of the port of Philadelphia.
The law of Pennsylvania is, therefore, not inconsistent with the second and third
clauses of the tenth section of the first article of the Constitution of the United
States. Imposts, and duties on impu, ts, exports, and tonnage, were understood,
when the Constittiltion was formed, to mean totally distinct things from fees of pi.
lotage.
Nor is the law repugnant to the first clause of the eighth section of the first article of
the Constitution, because, as the charge is not a duty, import, or excise, there is no
necessity for its being uniform throughout the United States.
Neither is the law repugnant to the fifth clause of the ninth.section of the first article
of the Constitution; because it neither gives a preference of one port over another,
nor does it require avessel to pay duties.
Upon this point the act of Congress, passed in 1789, (1 Stat. at Large, 54,) recognizing the pilot-laws of the States, is entitled to great weight, a' showing that these
laws neither levied duties nor gave a preference of one port over another.
Moreover, the law is not inconsistent with the third clause of the eighth section of
the first article of the Constitution.
It is true that the power to regulate commerce includes the regulation of navigation,
and that pilot-laws are regulations of navigation, and i therefore, of commerce,
within the grant to Congress of the commercial power.
But the mere grant of the commercial power to Congress, does not forbid the States
from passing laws to regulate pilotage. The power to regulate commerce includes
various subjectsi upon some o which there should be a uniform rule, and upon

