DECEMBER TERM, 1851.
Lyman et aL v.

225

The Bank of the United States.

Being of opinion that this cause is destitute of merits, it is
ordered that the decree of the District Court be reversed, and
the petition dismissed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the District Court of the United States for the Eastern
District of Louisiana, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed
by this court, that the decree of the said District Court in this
cause be, and the same is hereby, reversed and annulled, and
that this cause be and the same is hereby remanded to the said
District Court, with directions to dismiss the petition of. the
claimants.

WYLLYS LYMAN, GEORGE P. MARSH, JOHN PECK, AND JOHN
H. PECK, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, v. TIE PRESIDENT, DIRECTORS, AND COMPANY OF TaE BANK OF THE UNITED STATES.
Where persons were indebted to a bank and gave their promissory notes for the
amount of the debt, the mere acceptance of the notes by the bank did not necessarily operate as a satisfaction; and whether or not there was an agreement at the
time to receive them in satisfaction, or whether the circumstances attending the
transaction warranted.'such an inference, were questions for the jury.
All the nots hbaving been paid except the last, and the action not being brought upon
the note but upon tho original consideration, the bank was not bound to bring the
prior notes into court: the presumption of law was, they had been given up by the
holder at the time of payment. If the fact was not so, the burden lay upon the defendants to show it.
So also, a part of the consideration being the purchase of real estate, the bank was not
bound to prove the execution and delivery of proper conveyances to the defendants.
Having given their note3 for the purchase-money, the court was bound to presume
that they were satisfied with the conveyances. If not, it iias their duty to show it.
Where th . bank had become insolvent and had made an assignment of its effects to
trustees for thu benefit of its creditors, the bank was allowed to sue in its own name
at the instance, and for the benefit of creditors, and the case was the same as if the
law permitted the suit to be brought, and the same had been brought, in the name
of such trustees.
Although the bank had indorsed a note amongst its other assets to its trustees, yet
under the circumstances it could maintain a suit up6n the note, because,
Where a party who is the holder of a note has transferred it for purposes of collection,
and it is not paid but is found in the possession of the original holder, he can recover,
us he i3 remitted to his original rights, notwithstanding the indorsement; and if the
note is not paid, the plaintiff mvy give it up and recover upon the original consideration.
Before the dcftndonts became indebted to the bank, the bank had made a compromise
of certain claims, which, amongst others, were the subject of the sale. by the bank
and purchase by the defendants. Two of the defendants had knowledge of the conditions of this 'compromise, and their knowledge must be considered as extending
to the other defendants. It was a question for the jury to determine what the
defendants purchased.

Tins case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Vermont.

226

SUPREME COURT.
Lyman et al. v. The Bank of the United States.

It was a suit brought by the Bank of the United States, under
the following circumstances:
During the existence of the charter granted by Congress to
the Bank of the United States, it had established a branch of
that institution at Burlington, in,the State of Vermont. The
Bank, when chartered by Pennsylvania, became the owner of the
property and effects of the former corporation, and of course of
the property and effects of the branch at Burlington. Being
about to close and withdraw that branch, the board in Philadelphia received the following offer:
To the President and Directors of the Bank of the United States.
John Peck and Lyman and Marsh and others, propose to pur.
chase of the Bank of the United States the property of the office
at Burlington, Vt., as it was upon the 2d day of March, 1836,
upon the following terms, viz.:
Bills discounted, 2d March, 1836, . $70,121 01
.
2,133 46
Bills receivable, same dat&.
$72,254.47
With average of interest.
. $24,128.12
McIntir, & Burdick's debt,
Mclntire & Blood's debt,
Blood & Burdick's debt,

.

2,000.00 "
1.600.00 o

.

2
.;,000.00
23,795.28 "

.

Mclntire & Bean & Rolfe's debt,
Gates & Co.'s debts,

.

S 4,523.40

Suspended debt, ..

.

5,000.00

Banking-house and appurtenances, and house and
lot in Vergennes.

.

10,000.00

$141,777.87
To be paid in four or five annual instalments, with 5 per cent.
interest, and such security given as shall be satisfactory.
JOHN PEcK, for himself and others.
Philadelphia, 10th March, 1836.
The offer was accepted, and the plaintiffs in error signed four
joint and several notes, dated on the 1st of April, 1836, payable
to the order of Mr. Jaudon, cashier, at the Union Bank, in the
city of New York. Each note was for $35,500 dollars, and they
were payable one, two, three, and four years after date. Separate notes were given for the interest payable at intervals of six
months, and the small balance remaining being paid in cash.
When the first note was becoming due, Peck & Co. were not.
prepared to pay it, wad requested the bank to discount other
paper for them to the amount of $15,000 to place them in fmds;

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

227

Lyman et al. v. The Bank of the United States.

and amongst this other paper was a note by Lyman & Cole for
$5000, which was indorsed over to the bank by Peck & Co.
The bank having acceded to this proposition, the first note was
given up as paid, as was also the second and third when they
became due. The note by Lyman & Cole, however, was not
paid, and constituted one of the items of this suit.
By reference to the above list of assets, it will be perceived
that the "suspended debt" is valued at $5000. Two of these.
items were brought forward in the bill of exceptions, and are
noticed in the opinion of the court. It is proper, therefore, to give
the following explanation of the matter, copied from the brief of
Mr. Phelps:
Among the items of the suspended debt sold to the defendants for the sum of $5000, the nominal amount being over $26,000,
were two sums standing upon the books of the bank in the list
of suspended debts, as due from one Burrows, and from the firm
of Truesdell & Co. The debt of Truesdell & Co. had been
compromised by the payment of fifty per cent., so that the balance of 50 per cent., which stood upon the books of the bank at
the time of the sale to the defendants, was not due. The
amountpaid by Truesdell & Co. had been deducted from the
original debt, so that the sum apparently due was only the remaining half.
The Burrows debt had also been coffipromised, and was in a
similar condition, except that the sum to be paid by him under
the compromise had not been paid.
The compromise of the debts against Truesdell & Co. was
made by the directors of the branch, with the approbation -Indconcurrence of the parent board. At the time when this was done
two of the defendants were directors of the branch, and acted
in the matter.
The directors of the branch were directed by the parent board
to make semi-annual returns, showing the condition of the
branch, the suspended debts, &c. Two of these returns, signed
by two of the defendants as directors, show the precise condition of these debts. They being marked with the letter D, signifying desperate, and a note being appended, showing that the
apparent balances were not due. These transactions took
place long before the sale to the defendants. The defendants
claim that they should be indemnified for the amount of these
apparent debts not really due.
In October, 1849, the bank brought suit against Peck & Co.,
in the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Vermont. The declaration contained the usual money counts, an
account stated, and also counts for the original consideration of
the notes. The defendants pleaded the general issue and statute
-

228

SUPREME

COURT.

Lyman et a]. v. The Bank of the United States.

of limitations. At the trial the jury found a verdict for the
plaintiff at $21,621.47, and costs.
In the course of the trial several exceptions were taken to the
admissibility of evidence, and upwards of one hundred pages of
printed matter were incorporated into, and made part of, the bill.
It is obvious, therefore, that the whole of it cannot be inserted.
To sustain the issue, on the part of the plaintiffs, the counsel
for the plaintiffs offered in evidence the testimony of Lloyd Mifflin, John Ramsey, Samuel Jaudon, and Thomas B. Taylor, with
the several papers and exhibits thereto attached, and referred to in
their testimony, which testimony was taken under a commission
issued from this court, and which tesimbny, papers, and exhibits, are on file in said suit, and are hereby referred to, and incorporated with, and made part of, this bill of exceptions, together with the promissory note, dated April 1, 1836, for thirtyfive thousand five hundred dollars, payable to "Samuel Jaudon,
Esq., cashier," or order, four years from date, at the Union Bank,
in the city of New York, signed by the defendants; and the note
for five thousand dollars, dated March 25, 1837, signed by Lyman & Cole, payable to defendants, or order, on the first day
of June, 1837, at the Union Bank, city of New York, which pormissory notes are also annexed to said testimony on file, as aforesaid, and are referred to, and made part of, this bill of exceptions.
To the reading of which testimony,-exhibits, and notes, the
counsel for the defendants made the following objections:
1. To the reading of the said thirty-five thousand five hundred
dollar note, upon the ground that it was not payable to the plaintiffs but to Samuel Jaudon, and not indorsed by said Jaudon.
2. Objected to the "explanatory memorandum" upon exhibit
B, referred to in, and annexed to, the deposition aforesaid of said
Mifflin, on the ground that the defendants were not, nor either
of them, parties to, nor in any way connected therewith.
3. To the testimony of said Mifflin, under the fifth interrogatory, tending to prove that the consideration of said thirty-five
thousand five hundred dollar note moved from the plaintiffs, and
the practice of the plaintiffs, in taking notes payable to the cashier; and to the testimony of said Jaudon, under the 7th, 8th, and
9th interrogatories, tending to prove that the plaintiffs advanced
the consideration of the said thirty-five thousand five hwidred
dollar note, shown to said witness Jaudon, and the other notes
referred to by him, given by the defendants at the same time,
and that it was the property of the plaintiffs, and tending to
prove the practice of the plaintiffs in taking notes thus payable;
and also to all the evidence tending to prove the same facts, on
the ground that the legal effect of the note could not be varied
or controlled by parol evidence.

DECEMBER

TERM, 1851.

229

Lyman et al. v. The Bank of the United States.

4. To the testimony of said Mifflin, under the 7th interrogatory, on the ground that neither parol evidence nor a copy of the
instructions was the best evidence, and that the original should
be produced; and objected to the evidence of said Mifflin, under
the 8th interrogatory, on the ground that the original paper,
sent to the Branch Bank at Burlington, should be produced.
5. The defendants objected to the testimony of said Mifflin,
under the 10th interrogatory, tending to prove the signature of
Wyllys Lyman to paper or exhibit marked E, on the ground
that neither the acts of Lyman, done by him in his official capacity as director of the Branch Bank at Burlington, nor any
knowledge derived by him in the performance of his duties as
such director, could affect the other defendants, or in any way
affect the rights of the defendants in this action; and also claimed
that, if admissible, it would be evidence only against Lyman.
But the court overruled the objections, and admitted the evidence generally, so as to affect all the defendants.
6. The defendants objected to the evidence of said Ramsey,
under the 6th interrogatory bn the direct examination, relating
to the ability of Silas E. Burrows, on the ground that the solvency or insolvency of said Burrows was immaterial, and also
on the ground that the testimony of the witness, as given in his
answer, is not legal evidence, tending to prove the inability or
insolvency of said Burrows; the witness (as defendants insisted)
stating no facts, but inferences merely.
7. The defendants objected to the testimony of Samuel Jaudon,
under the third interrogatory, on the ground that the doings of
the corporation, (parties to the sale,) could not be proved of parol.
8. The defendants objected to the evidence of said Samuel
Jaudon, under the 10th, 11th, 12th, and 13th interrogatories, on
the ground that the same is irrelevant and immaterial, and on the
grou'nd that the power to negotiate the note or transfer the legal
interest therein, is matter of law, and not a subject-matter of proof.
9. The defendants objected to the testimony of said Jaudon,
under the 17th interrogatory on the direct examination, on the
ground that the contract was in writing, and that parol evidence
was not admissible. The court overruled all the objections, and
the evidence was read to the jury.
All the depositions and schedules, exhibits and papers, theretQ
annexed, above mentioned, were read in evidence to the jury.
The plaintiffs also introduced as a witness, Morton Cole, one of
the signers of the five thousand dollar note aforesaid, whose testimony proved that said note last aforesaid was executed by
himself and Lyman, the other maker, as an accommodation
note, that is, without consideration, and for the accommodation
of the payees in said note.
VOL. XIr.

20

230

SUPREME COURT.
Lyman et al. v. The Bank of the United States.

The plaintiffs also introduced a copy of the charter of the
Bank of the United States, by the State of Pennsylvania, which
is referred to as part of the case; and also introduced a letter
from John Peck, dated May 30, 1844, which is also referred to
as part of the case.
The defendants introduced the paper hereto annexed, ana
made part of the case, (marked X,) together with the testimony
of Charles F. Warner, whose testimony proved that said paper
was in the handwriting of Thomas Hockley, who is mentioned
in the depositions introduced by the plaintiffs, and that said
Hockley died in November, 1836, and continued to act as the
agent for the plaintiffs, in the matters relative to the Branch
Bank at Burlington aforesaid, up to the time of his death; and
the defendants claimed that this paper was furnished to them,
(at the time of the sale by plaintiffs to defendants,) by said
Hockley, as agent of the plaintiffs, as a list of the debts embraced in said sale, and that they bought, relying on that and the
paper (marked 0) annexed to the deposition of John Ramsey,
and referred to in his answer to the third and fourth and fifth
interrogatories by defendants, as furnished to defendants by said
Ramsey, on behalf of plaintiffs, at the time of said sale, and on
the faith of which they made the pu:chase, as defendants
claimed.
The plaintiffs also introduced evidence, tending to prove that
this suit was prosecuted by the consent and by direction of Fobertson and others, trustees.
No other evidence was introduced on either side.
"The plaintiffs claimed to recover the c.mount of the balance
of the account annexed to the deposition of Thomas B. Taylor,
(marked W,) and interest thereon, from the first of January,
1846, to the time of trial; that is $17,638.87, and interest thereon from January 1, 1846, to the time of trial.
The defendants' counsel insisted, and asked the court to instruct the jury,
1. That upon this evidence the plaintiffs were not entitled to
recover.
2. That the $35,500 notes, given for the original purchase,
were payable to Samuel Jaudon and not to the plaintiffs, and
that as the notes were not indorsed by Jaudon, there could be no
recovery in this action, in respect of the notes upon any of the
counts in the declaration ; and 'that there was no evidence in
the case tending to prove an account state'd between plaintiffs
and defendants.
3. That the notes given by defendants to Samuel Jaudon, as
aforesaid, are primdfacie given in payment of the original purchase, and that, therefore, this action cannot be sustained in the
-

DECEMBER TERM,

1851.

231

Lyman et al. v. The Bank of the United States.

name of the plaintffs, either upon the notes, or the consideration
as evidenced by the notes, or upon the original contract of sale .
4. That if the notes were not to be treated as payment as
matter of law, yet as the proof shows that the notes were given
in payment, that the plaintiffs could not recover; and if the
court would not so instruct the jury, then to instruct them that
if they should find that the notes were given and received in payment, then the plaintiffs could not recover.
5. That if the notes were not given in payment, yet, as it appears from the evidence that they were assigned to Robertson
and others, before the commencement of the action, and are still
the property of said Robertson and others, that the notes thereby
operate as payment or an extinguishment or suspension of the
original cause of action, and that such would be the effect if the
jury so found the facts, and that in that event the plaintiffs
could not recover.
6. That the plaintiffs cannot recover on the original contract
or consideration, without bringing into court all the notes, or
showing that such as are not brought into court have been given
up to defendants, more especially as it appears that the notes
were given payable to a third person, and have been assigned.
7. That there can be no recovery for the real estate without
showing a conveyance to defendants by deed, or some conveyance of the real estate, and that as the plaintiffs had alleged a
conveyance, the proof without evidence of such conveyance did
not support the declaration, and that the payments made must
be applied to the items of plaintifPs account, legally proved, and
not to the items for real estate, unless found by the jury to have
been specially made upon the items for real estate.
8. That the plaintiffs cannot recover upon the $5,000 note
while it appears to have passed by assignment by plaintiffs to
Robertson and others, indorsed in blank by defendants and Robertson and others, still the owners, and also for the reason that
it appears to be irdorsed to M. Robertson, and the legal title
still in him and out of the plaintiffs.
9. The defendants' counsel also insisted and claimed, that if
the plaintiff was entitled to recover, that the amount of the three
securities or debts against J. Truesdell & Son, amounting to
$4,884.48, and two securities or debts against Silas E. Burlows and J. Truesdell & Son, amounting to $2,536.86,
contained in schedule as exhibit (0) referred to in the testimony of John Ramsey, should be deducted from the plaintiffs' claim, which securities or debts the plaintiffs claimed
were parchased by defendants as subsisting and valid debts, and
that they had been compromised and dis? harged by the plaintiffs; and asked the court to instruct the jury that if they should'

232

SUPRE31E

COURT.

Lyman et al. v. The Bank of the United States.

so find the facts, to deduct the amount of such debts, or such or
so much of them as they should find were so purchased by defendants, and compromised and discharged by plaintiffs, from
the amount of the plaintiffs' claim; and if the court did not so
instruct them, then to instruct them to deduct so much as they
should estimate the debts to have been worth at the time of
such purchase, which were discharged by the plaintiffs; and that
at all events the defendants were entitled to have deducted the
amount or value of the note taken by plaintiffs in the compromise of the Burrows debt.
10. The defendants further insisted and asked the court to instruct the jury, that it was a question of fact for them to find
whether the defendants, or either of them, had knowledge of the
condition of these debts, or whether, at the time of the purchase,
said debts; or either of them, had been compromised and discharged; and that if they should find that Wyllys Lyman and
John Peck, or eithci of them, had knowledge of the condition of
said debts, and that they had been compromised and discharged,
or either of them, at the time of the purchase, and that they derived such knowledge by and while acting in their official capacity as directors, or as committee of said Branch Bank at Burlington, that such knowledge would not affect the other defendants,
or defeat or affect the right of the defendants to have a deduction from the plaintiffs' claim on accountof said debts as aforesaid.
The court refused to instruct the jury agreeably to the defendants' first request, to which the defendants tendered their
exceptions, which are allowed and sealed by the court.
Upon the points raised in the second request by the defendants, the court charged the jury that the action was not brought,
nor did the plaintiffs seek to recover upon the .$35,500 notes, and
that there could be no recovery upon said notes, as the same
were payable to Samuel Jaudon, and had not been indorsed by
him, and that the evidence did not tend to prove an account
stated with, the plaintiffs, but with Robertson and others, trustees, to whom the debt" had been assigned, and who were the
owners thereof at the time.
In answer to the third request of the defendants, the court refused to charge as requested, and charged the jury that the notes
given at the time of the purchase were not prindfacie payment;
that as the notes were given to Samuel Jaudon as agent of the
plaintni, they were in judgment of law the..property of the bank,
and for this purpose the same as if given payable to the plaintiffs. That the note in one sense may be considered as prind
facie payment, until it reaches maturity. -It suspends the remedy till then. To which refusal of the court to charge as requested the defendants tendered their bi:l of exceptions, which
is allowed, and signed and sealed by the court.

DECEMBER TERM,

1851.

233

Lyman et al. v. The Bank of the United States.

In answer to the fourth request the court refused to charge as
requested by defendants, and charged the jury, that it was a
question of fact for them to find, whether the notes were given
and receiv&d in payment and satisfaction of the debt or original
consideration, and that if so the plaintiffs could not recover.
That in order to operate as a satisfaction, they must have been
given and received as actual payment; that if goods are sold
and bills receipted by the vendor "received payment by note,"
that is no payment; that means payment when the note is paid,
and is not payment or satisfaction until such note is paid. That
the rule is, that the giving of a note is no satisfaction of the original debt or consideration, unless there is an agreement that
the note shall be in payment, and, that the question iry this case
is, whether at the time of the purchase the pprties superadded
an agreement that the notes should be in satisfaction; if not,
then they would not operate as a satisfaction. To which refusal
of the court to charge the jury as requested, and to the charge
as given, the defendants tender their bill of exceptions, which is
allowed, and signed and sealed by the court.
The court refused to charge the jury as requested in the defendant's fifth request, and charged the jury that Robertson and
others were assignees and trustees for the benefit of creditors,
end held the debt for the benefit of creditors of the bank, and
that the suit was instituted by the plaintiffs, (the bank,) at the
instance and for the benefit of creditors, and the case is the
same as if the law permitted the suit to be brought, and the
same had been brought, in the name of such trustees. To
which refusal of tie court to charge the jury as requested, and
to the charge as given to the jury, the defendants tender thcir
bill of exceptions, and the same is allowed, and signed and
sealed by the court.
The court refused to charge the jury as requested in the defendants' sixth request, and did instruct the jury, that although
the two intermediate notes given at the time of the purchase
were not accounted for, yet as the plaintiff conceded that they
had been paid by the defendants, the legal presumption was that
they had been given up to the defendants; that the law obliges
a party to give up a note when paid, and that the burden lay
on the defendants to show that the notes were outstanding and
indorsed befere due under such circumstances; that the holders
were boadefide holders before the defendants could claim that
the notes are outstanding, or object that the notes are not
brought into court. To this refusal of the court to instruct the
jury as requested, and to this instruction of the court, the defendants tender their bill of exceptions, and the same is allowed,
and sianed and sealed bv the court.

SUPREME COURT.
Lyman et al. v. The B&.nk of the United States.

The court refused to charge the .jury agreeably to the seventh
request, and charged the jury that it was objected by the defendants that the plaintiffs could not recover the items for real
estate without showing a conveyance of the real estate; that this
objection would be well founded if the contract was executory,
but that this contract was executed, and, therefore, the plaintiffs
might recover without showing a conveyance of the real estate;
and th6.t, without showing such conveyance, the proof supported
the declaration in this respect. To the refusal of the court to
instruct the jury as requested, and to the instructions as given,
the defendants tender their bill of exceptions; which is allowed,
and signed and sealed by the court.
The court refused to charge the jury agreeably to thc eighth request, and charged the jury that, where a party who is the holder
of a note has transferred it for purposes of collection, and it is
no* paid, but is found in the possession of the original holder,
he can recover, as he is remitted to his original rights, notwithstanding the indorsement, whether stricken out or not; and
that another answer to defendants' objection was that if not paid
the plaintiffs may give it up, and recover upon the original consideration. To this refusal of the court to instruct the jury as
requested, and to the instructions as given, the defendants tender their bill of exceptions, and the same is allowed, and signed
and sealed by the court.
The court refused to instruct the jury agreeably to the ninth and
tenth request of the defendants, and instructed them that it was
a question whether the plaintiffs sold the debt of Truesdell &
Son, as it stood upon the books, and the same as to the debt of
Silas B. Burrows, or whether defendants bought these debts with
a full knowledge of the circumstances of these debts; that it appeared that, in pursuance of instructions of the parent bank to the
branch bank, that itwas the duty of the branch bank to make semiannual returns, showing what debts were good, and what bad, and
what were considered dlesperate; that in June, 1835, and in November, 1835, returns were made, and in that of June, 1836,
there is a memorandum opposite the Truesdell debt: "This balance due after compromise ;" and opposite the Burrows debt is
ni-ed at the New York office," and a simiput down "compro M
lar entry in the return of November, that it is claimed by de.
fendants that, as those debts are put in at the criginal amount
in the list, it is a representation that the debts are due; but that
the answer to this is, that Lyman and Peck were directors at
the Burlington branch, and are to be presumed to have been
cognizant of the condition of these debts; and further instructed
the jury, that, as it appeared that Lyman and Peck knew the
fact of the compromise and condition of these debts at the time

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

235

Lyman et al. v. The Bank of the United States.

of the purchase, although the defendants' objections would be
well founded if notice to Lyman and Peck was not notice to
the other defendants, yet notice to Lyman and Peck was in law
notice to all the defendants, and their knowledge was to be in
law imputed to the other defendants; and inasmuch as the purchasers knew at the time of the purchase that these debts had
been compromised, the bank was not bound to make any deduction on account of these debts, and that if the plaintiffs recovered, they were entitled to recover the amount of the balance
of $17,638.87, as by the account annexed to the deposition of
Thomas B. Taylor, marked (W,) and interest thereon, from
January 1, 1846, to time of trial. To which refusal of the court
to charge agreeably to the ninth and tenth requests, and to the
charge of the court as given, the defendants tender their bill of
exceptions, which exceptions are allowed, and signed and sealed
by the court. The jury returned a verdict for the plaintiffs, for
amount of said account last mentioned and interest, amounting
to $21,621.47. To all which several decisions of the court, and
refusal to instruct the jury as requested, and tc9 the instructions of
the court as given to the jury, the defendants tendered exceptions and prayed that the same be allowed, and which were
severally allowed, and signed and sealed by the court.
S. NELSON, [SEAL.]
ASAHEL PE K,

Attorney and Gounsel for defendants.
Upon these exceptions the cause came up to this court.
It was argued by _r. Phelps, for the defendants in error, no
counsel appearing for the plaintiffs in error.
-

Mr. Phelps. This action is brought by the assignees of the
bank under the assignment of September 4, 1841, in the name
of the bank, and contains several counts, viz., a count upon an
account stated, which was not relied on at the trial; a count for
money had and received, and several counts in indebitatus assulinpsit for the various descriptions of the property sold, including
one for real estate "sold and conveyed."
Various points are raised by the bill of exceptions, which relate, 1st, to the admission of the evidence; and, 2dly, to the
charge to the jury; and these will be examined in their order.
1. The note for $35,500 is objected to upon the ground that
it is payable to Jaudon, and is not by him indorsed.
It is sufficient to say here, that the note was not offered as the
foundation of the suit, or as of itself sustaining it. It was dffered as a part of the transaction testified to by the witnesses,
and for the purpose of showing a consummation of the contract,

236

SUPREME COURT.
Lyman et al. v. The Bank of the United States.

the price to be paid, and, in connection with the account current, the balance due the plaintiffs. The effect of taking the
note in this form upon the plaintiffs' remedy will be considered
hereafter.
2. The explanatory memorandum on exhibit B, attached to
the testimony of Mifflin, is objected to.
Exhibit B is the original proposition of the defendants for the
purchise. If exhibit A is referred to, which was an estimate of
the value of the property made by the witness to enable the
board to judge of the proposition, it is a document in all respects
immaterial, having no possible bearing upon the issue. The
memorandum is oY the same character. It was introduced by
the witness of his own motion. It will not do to hold that the
introduction of circumstances, wholly immaterial, by a witness
in detailing a transaction, is error, and a ground of reversal.
Had this been objected to specifically, it would probably have
been waived by the plaintiffs; but it is here urged in support of
a general objection to the whole testimony.
3. The third ground of objection has reference to the proof as
to the origin of the note, from whom the consideration moved,
what it was, and as to the fact that Jaudon is, in regard to the
note, a mere trustee for the bank. This objection is founded
upon the mistaken supposition that the action is brought upon
the note to enforce it; whereas the plaintiffs waive their remedy
on the notes, and seek to recover upon the original contract of sale.
Whether the taking .the notes in the name of Jaudon bars
this action is another question.
There is nothing in the nature of a promissory nowe which precludes an inquiry into the facts, as to what the consideration
was, from whom it moved, or whether the payee holds it as trustee, whenever the inquiry is pertinent to the ipsue; whether the
contract expressed on its face can be varied by parol, is a very
different qiestion.
But if this objection is well founded, the whole defence in the
case falls to the ground. If we are not at liberty to connect the
note in this way with the transaction between these parties,
then it is to be regarded as a matter between other parties
having no connection with this controversy, and no bearing upon
the case. In this point of view the whole testimony in regard
to the notes becomes immaterial, and affords no reason for reversing the judgment, unless an improper effect was given to it
in the charge to the jury. The judge, however, directed the
jury, in substance, to disregard the notes, unless they found that
they were in fact received in payment.
4. To the testimony of Miffin, in answer to the 7th interrogatory. This testimony zelates to the general practice of the

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

237

Lyman et al. v. The Bank of the United States.

bank, and the instructions generally given to the branches. This
was clearly competent evidence. And, in describing that practice, it was certainly proper for the witness to refer to a printed
copy of the instructions themselves; for, in this point of view,
one copy is as much an original as another. The general practice of the bank might not be material, standing alone; but
that is not the objection.
The answer to the eighth interrogatory merely states the fact,
that a copy of the circular was sent to the branch, which certainly does not fall within the rule excluding parol evidence.
When this fact appeared, all further inquiry of the witness,
as to the contents of that particular paper, is of course precluded, unless the paper is produced or accounted for. Here
was no attempt to control a writing by parol.
The paper produced speaks for itself; and the fact that one
of the printed circulars was forwarded to the branch in Vermont
does not conflict with the paper itself, nor is it descriptive of its
contents.
Besides, this paper was attached, to a deposition taken under
a commission, the defendants being present at the taking, and
filed in court long before trial. This was of itself sufficient
notice to the defendants to produce what they call the original.
Some of them having been directors during the whole existence of the branch, they must be supposed to have the custody
and control of it. This view of the subject imposes no hardship upon the defendants. *They may produce the paper, if
necessary, in their defence, and it involves no surprise, as they
have notice by the return of the commission that the plaintifis
will use the copy if they do not.
5. The fifth objection involves two questions: 1st, whether
notice to Lyman, as director, is evidence of knowledge in him
in his private capacity; and, 2dly, whether notice to him is
legally notice to all the defendants.
The first point is disposed of by a simple statement of the
case. Lyman was appointed director of the branch by the
parent board He stood, therefore, in no official relation to that
board, but was simply their agent. In that capacity he compromised the debts with Truesdell & Co., and reports his doings
to his principal. He afterwards purchases the suspended debt.
The question then becomes this, - whether an agent who reports
his proceedings to his princi al is supposed to know what he
has done or what he reports? And if be deals with his principal afterwards, both parties relying upon what the agent communicates, and it prove untrue, the principal or the agent is defrauded.
As to the other point, it is very clear that notice to one is

238

SUPREME COURT.
Lyman et al. v. The Bank of the United States.

notice to all. They are joint contractors, and notice must
necessarily affect all or none. I know of no exception to this
rule, unless it be in the case of joint indorsers of a note or bill,
which depends upon peculiar principles not applicable to this
case.

In regard to the Burrows debt, the evidence is, that he signbd
a report, dated in November, 1835, in which that debt is reported
as "compromised at the New York office," and marked as desperate.
6. To the answer of Ramsay to the 6th interrogatory. The
solvency of Burrows was material. His debt was purchased by
defendants (if purchased at all) as a doubtful debt; but $5,000
having been given for the whole list of suspended debts, amounting to over $26,000. If defendants have any claim upon the
plaintiffs, by reason of the debt not being due, it is only for what
they have lost
The proof of the fact is also proper. The court cannot go
into a settlement of a man's estate to ascertain his colvency.
It is a matter of reputation and opinion, and the opinion of the
witness, with the grounds of it, was competent proof.
The fourth, fifth, and sixth objecions have reference to the
claim of the defendants upon the plaintiffs, on account of the
Burrows and Truesdell debts. But the whole of the evidence on
that subject was unimportant. The matter was not properly in
issue. There is no plea of set-off in the case, "and the failure
of consideration being partial merely, could not be set up as a
defence. The matter got into the case by the plaintiffs anticipating the claim, and taking evidence under the commission to
rebut it.
7. The seventh objection to the testimony of Jaudon, in his
answer to the 3d .interrogatory, is founded on the exploded notion, that a corporation cannot contract except under seal. It
is now well settled that a corporation may contract through its
agents by parol.
At all events, the defendants purchased of the new bank, after
the old charter had expired, and have had the full benefit of
their purchase; it is not now competent for them to question the
plaintiffs' title.
8. The eighth objection, viz., the testimony of Jaudon, is altogether misconceived. The witness does not testify to mattbrs
of law, but to the authority which the bank conferred, as a matter of fact, upon its agents.
9. The ninth objection to the answer of the same witness to the
17th interrogatory is equally unfounded. This testimony is unimportant, inasmuch as the defendants offered no proof of an
express warranty. But it was technically admissible, for the

DECEMBER TERM,

1851.

Lyman ct al. v. The Bank of the United States.

transfer of the property was not in writing. The defendants'
proposition was in writing, and they were advised by letter that
the proposition was accepted; but no written transfer of the
property was executed. There might, therefore, have been a
verbal warranty, and to meet such a suggestion the proof was
taken.
II. As to the exceptions to the judge's charge:
1. The first is general, and depends upon the other points in
the case; it need not therefore be discussed.
2. The second request of the defendants' counsel was most
fully conformed to by the judge, who told the jury explicitly,
that the plaintiffs could not recover upon the notes, nor upon the
account stated.
3. The charge of the court upon the third point suggested by
the counsel was doubtless correct. Had the notes been made
payable to the plaintiffs, they might have waived their remedy
upon the notes, and sued on the original contract. A note is a
mere security for a debt. It is upon this principle that a note
may be given in evidence under a count for money had and
received.
The real question in the case is not, as the counsel seem to
suppose, whether a recovery 2an be had upon the notes in the
name of the bank, as parties to the notes; but whether the taking the notes in the name of Jaudonwill, under all circumstances,
bar the action on the original contract?
Had the notes been made payable to the bank, they clearly
would not have that effect.
Does the fact that they were payable to Jaudon make any
difference? They were made payable to him, as an officer of
the bank, in trust for the bank, he having personally no interest
in them; they have never been put in circulation, but have ever
remained, and still are, in possession of the bank, except so tar
as they have been paid and delivered up to the defendants.
Can any reason be given why the bank should not have the
same remedy in this case as if they were payable to the bank
directly ?
4. If the notes are not payment of the original debt by operation of law, the only remaining question is, whether they were
intended by the parties to have that effect?
This question was very fairly left to the jury, with the instructin that, as the legal effect' of the notes was not to extinguish
the original cause of action, they could not have that effect, unless by agreement of the parties.
5. The fifth request of the counsel assumes, that the assignment to Robinson and others, trustees, divested the bank of all

interest in the claims; and, therefore, that they cannot recover.

SUPREME COURT.
Lyman et al. v.

The Bank of the United States.

But the assignment was made of the effects of the bank for the
purpose of closing its business, and for the benefit of its creditors. The claim, therefore, passed to the assignees precisely as
the bank held it; and they had the same election in regard to
the remedy as the bank had. Had the notes been put in circulation upon a new consideration, moving from a third party, the
two remedies would have been separated, the election made, and
the right of election determined; but passing, as they did, together, the character and condition of the claim in either form, was
not changed by the assignment.
6. The sixth request assumes, very properly, that iI is incumbent on the plaintiffs, either to bring the notes into court or
otherwise account for them. But the account current attached
to the deposition of Taylor, shows that the three notes first payable were paid, and how they were paid. The plaintiffs admitted the payment on trial. The legal presumption, then, is, that
they were given up to the defendants; especially as ten years
had elapsed at the time of trial after the last of the three notes
became payable, and the statute of limitation had run- upon it
more than four years before.
The testimony of Ramsey shows that the note first due was
given up to the defendants, and this fortifies the presumption that
the others were.
7. The seventh request relates to the count for the sale of the
real estate.
The objection is, that the proof does not support the declaration.
Nothing can be made, on.this point, of the suggestion of a
variance; for the proof, if it show any thing, shows an execution of the contract, as stated in the declaration; and as the defendants executed- their notes agreeably to their proposition, it
is to be presumed, in the absence of all proof, that they received
such a conveyance as was satisfactory.
If there be any foundation for this exception, it must be on
the ground that he deed of conveyance, or a copy of it, should
be produced as the best evidence. If the title to the real estate
were in controversy, the conveyance should undoubtedly be produ ed, that the court might judge whether it were effectual.
But the allegation in this case is, that the defendants "being
indebted for certain real estate," &c., "promised," &c. The
material fact is the indebtedness. If that indebtedness is admitted, it is 'enough. The defendants, by giving the notes for that
consideration, agreeably to their first propositiln, admit the
indebtedness. Why, then, should the deed be produced? It
would not prove the indebtedness if it were. That would
depend, after all, upon other proof. Nor is it necessary to show

DECEMBER TERM,

1851.

.

241

Lyman et al. v. The Bank of the United1 States.

that the deed conveyed a perfect title. The defendants may
have stipulated fo
release merely, and may have acquired no
title, and yet may be liable on their promise.
The title is not in issue in any form.. There is no pretence
that the defendants have given a defective title for which they
are responsible, or that the consideration of the notes has failed,
either in whole or in part., or that the plaintiffs failed to execute
the contract fully.
Inasmuch, then, as the deed would not prove an indebtedness
if produced, (it not being a security executed for such a purpose,
and indeed would contain an acknowledgment of payment of
the consideration-money,) and as the title is in no way in issue,
for what rational purpose should it be produced?
It would simply show the fact that a conveyance of some
kind was executed; a fact necessarily admitted by the execution of the notes.
After all, the point is immaterial. A judgment will not be
reversed for an erroneous decision, if it appear that the result of
the case must be the same, whether -the point be ruled one way
or the other.
The court very properly adopted the amount agreed to be
paid upon the purchase, (whatever wqas included in it,) as the
basis of the verdict, directing the jury to find the balance after
deducting payments as stated in the account current.
This they must have done if no evidence had been offered
under the count in question, or if it had been stricken out.
There being no plea "n offset, and n- proof of failure of any
part of the consideration attempted or supposed to be passed,
the simple question is, whether the real estate 'was included in
the purchase or not. This question becomes unimportant, when
it is considered that the price to be given for the purchase, whatever was included in it, must be paid.
The result is, that the plaintiffs would be entitled to their verdict upon the other counts, and to the same verdict if the count
in question were expunged. The question, therefore, is reduced
to this simple point of technicality, whether, the verdict being
general, the existence of a count in the declaration, not sustained
by evidence, vitiates the verdict.
8. The eighth exception to the charge is analogous to the fifth,
and admits of the same answer. It relates to the smaller note
which was given in part substitution for one of the original
notes. The assignees had the same right to elect their remedy
that the bank had, and might treat the note as no payment, and
resort to the original cause of action. Besides, if th assignees
were the real owners, they could put the suit in the name of any
person as their trustee.
.

VOL. XII.

21

242

SUPREM1E COURT.
Lyman. et al. v. The Bank of the United States.

9 and 10. The ninth and tenth exceptions relate to the claim of
the defendants on account of he debts of Burrows and Trues.
dell. This claim was not properly in issue, as there was no
plea in offset, nor could the defendants avail themselves of it as
a partial failure of consideration.
But it is utterly groundless. It appears in evidence, that two
of the defendants, as directors, had themselves compromised the
debt of Truesdell, and had reported the balances to the plaintiffs
due from both as mere nominal balances, not in reality due.
The whole difficulty arises from the fact that these balances
were not transferred on the books of the bank to the account of
profit and loss, as they should have been, but were suffered to
remain upon the list of suspended debts. The defendants have
seized upon this circumstance as amounting to a representation
that they were due. But if the defendants were fully advised
of the condition of these debts, they could not have been deceived or defrauded. They knew how these items came upon
that list, and how they should have been taken from it.
There was certainly no express warranty that these debts
were due; e nd there can be no implied one against facts which
are fully disclosed to the party.
The utter groundlessness of the defendants' claim, so far as
regards the Burrows debt, is further apparent from the fact, that
all the securities for that debt had been surrendered to Burrows
in May, 1835, and there was in the Burlington branch, at the
time of the purchase, (March, 1836,) no evidence of any indebtedness on the part of Burrows. Of course, no such securities
could have been delivered to the defendants. But, when they
came to execute their contract, they would be governed, not by
the list of suspended debts, but by the securities actually delivered. They could not suppose they purchased what was not
delivered; and how could they suppose they were purchasing a
debt for which there was no security in existence? It will not
do to say that they purchased relying on the entry in the books
alone; for those who were directors had the custody of the securities before the purchase. Nay, even if they did purchase relying on the entries in the books, how are they defrauded? The
directors of the branch had not only the custody and control of
the securities, but of the books also. The parent board could
know nothing of either, except by information from the branch
itself. If there was a discrepancy between the statement bn the
books and the reality, who was in fault? If the defendants furnished the deceptive document upon which the parties act, who
is defrauded? Or, rather, who would be defrauded, if the plaintiffs are to be held liable to the defendants for a fraudulent representation furnished by the defendants themselves?

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

243

Lyman et al. v. The Bank of the United States.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error' tb the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Vermont.
The suit was brought in the court below by the bank against
the defendants to recover a balance claimed to be due, of the
purchase-money agreed to be given for the property and assets
of their branch at Burlington. The amount of the purchasemoney was a fraction under one hundred and forty-two thousand dollars, ($142,000,) payable in instalments; and for securing payment of which four notes of thirty-five thousand five
hundred dollars ($35,500) each, were executed and delivered at
the time. These notes were payable to "Samuel Jaudon, Esq.,
cashier, or order," and had not been indorsed by him to the
plaintiffs, nor in blank.
The declaration contained the usual money counts, an account
stated, and also counts for the original consideration of the notes.
On the trial the plaintiffs offered in evidence the last of the
series of notes, the previous ones having been paid, for the purpose of sustaining the action, which was objected to on the
ground that no title was shown in the bank, the note not having
been indorsed. 'This objection was sustained and the note excluded, but the plaintiffi were permitted to recover under the
count for the original consideration.
The question, therefore, whether or not it was competent to
connect the plaintiffs with the note by parol evidence, that it
had been given to their cashier, and was ther property, is not in
the case, and need not be passed upon. 
It was objected at the trial that the plaintiffs could not recover
under the counts for the original consideration, on the ground
that the notes had been received in payment and satisfaction of
the indebtedness; and hence the recovery must be upon the
notes themselves if at all. But the court held that the mere
acceptance of the notes by the bank did not necessarily operate
as a satisfaction; and that; whether or not there was an agreement at the time to receive them in satisfaction, or whether the
circumstances attending the transactions warranted such an
inference, were questions for the jury; and submitted the questions accordingly.
It was also objected, that, in order to entitle the plaintiffs to
recover under the counts for the original consideration, they must
first produce all the previous notes given for the purchase-money,
and surrender them in court. And, further, that before there
could be a recovery for that portion of the consideration, consisting of the real estate, the plaintiffs were bound to prove the
execution, and delivery of the conveyances of the same to the
defendants. But the court held, as to the first objection, that,

244.

SUPREME

COURT.

Lyman et al. v. The Bank of the United States.

as it was conceded on both sides that the previous notes had been
paid, the presumption of law was, they had boen given up by
the holder at the time of payment, as the party was not bound
as a general rule to make the payment, without receiving the
note as his voucher; and, that, if the fact was otherwise, the burden lay upon the defendants to show it. And as to the second
vbjection, inasmuch as the contract had been executed, and the
defendants had given their notes for the purchase-money, the
court was bound to presume that they were satisfied with the
execution on the part of the plaintiffs, and' of course, that the
proper conveyances had been made and delivered, and that, if
the fact was otherwise, it was incumbent upon the defendants

to show it.
This court is of opinion that no error was committed in either
of the various rulings at the Circuit to which we have referred,

nor, indeed, as it respects either of the other questions in the
case, not thus far particularly noticed; but which appear upon
the record.

Those remaining that bear upon the merits of the defence,
and which we propose to notice, relate to two items of indebtedness upon the books of the branch bank at Burlington-the
debt of Truesdell & Son of $4,884.48, and of Silas E. Burrows
of $2,538.86. These items were among those on the list of
suspended debts made out by the cashier of the branch preparatory to the negotiation for a purchase by the defendants of its

assets, and to the settlement of the terms of sale by the parent
bank.

They were of considerablQ standing at the branch, and

had been previously returned by the directors to the parent bank
in several semoi-annual returns as not only bad but desperate,
and were inserted in what was called the list of suspended debts,
amounting in the aggregate to a fraction short of $27,000 preparatory to the sale, and for which the defendvnts offered and the
plaintiffs accepted five thousand dollars ($5000).
These two items, it was insisted, should be credited to the
account of the defendants, inasmuch as they had been compro-

mised, as was contended, and settled by the plaintiffs 'before or
after the time of purchase; and, that as they had been inserted
in the list of suspended debts, the defendants had reason to believe, when they made the purchase, they were outstanding existing demands, though of doubtful value.
It was admitted by the counsel for the plaintiffs, that; if his
clients had compromised either of these debts, or had received
any portion of them since the sale, they would be responsible
for the fair value of the demands or the money received, at the
election of the defendants. But, that if these demands, or either
of them, had been compromised, and closed previously to the

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

245

Lyman et al. v. The Bank of the United States.

sale to the defendants, by the board of directors of the branck
at Burlington, inasmuch as there was no warranty of the debtk
and two of the purchasers were members of the board, and, of
course, cognizant of the compromise, and settlement, all the defendants being joint purchasers, were chargeable with knowledge,
and, therefore, there was no ground for an implied fraudulent
representation on account of these two items having been inadvertently placed on the suspended list.
It was also urged by the counsel for the plaintiffs, that the
condition of the debts on the books at the Burlington branch
must have been well known to the board of directors there-.
much better known to them, than to the board of the parent
.bank; and, that the latter must necessarily have relied mainly
upon information derived from the former as to the condition of
the assets, with a view to make an estimate of their value.
The court took.this view of the case at tile trial, and left the
facts to the jury. And, upon a review here, it is the opinion of
this court., that no error was committed in the direction.
The facts were, that the Truesdell debt had been compromised
by the directors of the branch at Burlington, with the assent of
the parent bank, more than a year previous to the sale to the
defendants, and the original debt discharged; and the better
opinion from the evidence, is, that the amount for which the
debt was compromised was paid at the Burlington branch previous to the sale. At all events, there is no evidence whatever
that any part of it has been received by the parent bank since
that time. If it has been paid since, it must have been paid to
the defendants who held the substituted paper under the transfer
of the assets of the branch.
Under these circumstances, we think, the defendants were
bound to show, in order to entitle themselves to the credit for
this item of the suspended debts, that the parent bank had either
received the money on it or had appropriated the securities so as
to make them their own since the sale. And, as there was no
evidence warranting either conclusion, it follows, the direction of
the court below was right,
As it respects the Silas E. Burrows debt-it appears that
this debt was compromised at 33, per cent as early as May,
1835; and the original securities surrendered on taking the new
security for $922.17. This security has never been interfered with
by the parent bank; and if unpaid at the time of the sale, remained in full force at that time, and since, in the hands of the
defendants.
The parent bank subsequently, in December, 1840, compromised a large indebtedness of Burrows, but in this, and all other
21 *

246

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v.

Wilkinson et al.

subsequent negotiations -with him, they expressly excluded the
debt at the Burlington branch, as'no longer under their control.
For these reasons-we are satisfied the judgment of the court
below is right, and should be affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Vermont, andwas argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court, that
the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause be, and the
same is hereby affirmed with costs and damages at the rate of
six per centum per annum.

THE UNITED STATES, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. JOSEPH B. WILKINSON, CHRISTOPHER ROSELIUS, JOHN L. LEwIs, Louis BRINGfER, MANDEVILLE MARIGNY, AND JOHN

R.

GRYMES.

Where the bill of exceptions purported to have been taken at April term, 1848, but
the record showed that, at that time, no suit between the parties was pending, and
that the trial took place in April, 1849, the date of 1848 must be considered as a
clerical error. The certificate from the Circuit Court showed that the bill of exceptions was regularly allowed upon the trial, and this must be conclusive upon this
court.
Where the suit was upon a postmaster's bond and the district-attorney offered to read
in evidence an authentic copy thereof, which the court refused to receive, this refq sal was grroncous.
Although the presumption of law is in favor of the correctness of the court below
where no realojis appear, yet, in this case, the record itself shows the error. If
there was any fact which made the copy of the bond inadmissible, it ought to have
been shown by the defendants, and set-forth in the exception.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit*
Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Louis.
iana:
The facts are set forth in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by 1r. Crittenden. (Attorney-General,) for the
United States, and by Mr. Johnsan, with whom were Mr. Ben,
jamin and Mi. Micon, for the defendants.
Mr. Crittenden. There is but a single question for this court
to supervise and review, which is contained in the bill of exceptions.
The United States sued, on the 11th day of July, 1848, the
sureties of McQueen, late postmaster at New Orleans, on their

