DECEMBER TERM, 1851.
Sargeant et al. v. The State Bank of Indiana.

they could have earned. On this basis the master acted in
making out the account, and we think it was properly assumed
by him. And in this view there appears to be no error or mistake in the account stated, which should have prevented the District Court from sanctioning it.
The charges by Bennett for the superintendence and management of the slaves, were not allowed by the master, nor the
charge for commissions. These items, if the defendant were
entitled to an equitable allowance for the services stated, would
amount only to a small sum, and we think, under all the circumstances of the case, neither this omission, nor the other
exceptions to the report of the master, are of a character to
require the reversal of this decree.
There was no action on the plta in bar filed by Bennett,
which is an irregularity, not important, however, to be noticed
on the appeal. Nor does it appear that any notice was taken in
the District Court of the award set up in his answer by Hunt,
the administrator. As the consideration for the transfer of the
slaves by Amis to his daughter was natural love and affection,
as appears by the bill of sale, it could not have been considered
as within the award stated.
The decree of the District Court is affirmed with costs.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the District Court of the United States for the District of Texas, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by this
court, that the decree of the said District Court in this cause
be, and the sam.e is hereby, affirmed with costs.

PHINEAS 0., NABY, JABEZ AND BENJAMIN . SARPEANT, HEIRS
OF SAMUEL SARGEANT, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, v. THE STATE
BNK OF INDIANA.
By the strict rules of the common law, a bond of conveyance might be adduced in
support of a possession of twenty years held in pursuance of the bond to corroborate such possession against an action founded upon the mere right of entry in the
obligor or his heirs.
Butwhen the bond was given to. carry out the policy of a State in establishing the
seat of justice for a new county, it was proper to allow it to be given to the jury as
competent evidence to be weighed by them in expounding the provisions of the
statute.
Where a court, noting under a State law, appointed a commissioner to convey the
legal title, after the death of the obligor of the bond, and the record of that court

SUPREME

COURT.

Sargeant et al. v. The State Bank of Indiana.
said that proper and legal notices had been given, it was not competent to offer
evidence m another court for the purpose of showing that legal notice had not been
given.

THIs case *as brought up by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the D istrict of Indiana.
It was an ejectment brought by the plaintiffs in error, citizens
of Vermont, against the State Bank of Indiana, under the following circumstances.
By a law passed on the 14th of January, 1824, the Legislature
of Indiana provided that whenever any new county should be
laid off, five commissioners should be appointed to locate the
seat of justice therein, to receive donations in land, and take
title-bonds for the conveyance of it to such persons as the county
commissioners should
ec.
In 1826 the county of Tippecanoe was about to be laid off,
and on the 20th of January, 1826, an act was passed creating
the county of Tippecanoe, which so far altered the act of 1824
as to substitute a board of five justices of the peace in lieu of
county commissioners. But these justic-3s. of the peace were
not to be appointed until June. The rest of the act was to go
into operation on the first Monday in May.
Accordingly, on the first Monday in May, a majority of the
commissioners appointed to locate the seat of justice, met and
designated Lafayette as the town. On the 4th of May they
received two bonds, wit h the name of Samuel Sargeant as an
obligor; in one of which he was the sole obligor, and in the
other a joint obligor with other, persons. These bonds bound
Sargeant to convey the land "to the board of justices of Tippecanoe county that may hereafter be organized, and their successors in otfice."

. On the 8th of July, 1826, the board of justices, having been
elected, met and organized. Samuel Sargeant was county clerk
and ex officio clerk of the board of justices. They received the
report of the locating commissioners, and ordered a public sale
of the lots for which title-bonds had been given, to take place
on the second Monday of the ensuing October. •
In 'the latter part of July, 1826, Samuel Sargeant died. His
co-obligors in the bond conveyed their title to the justices, according to the tenor of the bond.
By the act of 1826, it was provided that in case of the death
of any person who had executed or might execute such a bond,
the obligee might apply to the Circuit Court of the county to
appoint a commissioner to convey the title, provided four weeks'
personal notice should be given to the heir of the obligor, or
certain advertising if a non-resident.
At the term of the Tippecanoe Circuit Court, which was held

DECEMBER TERM,

1851.

373

Sargoant et al. v. The State 3Bank of Indiana.

in November, 1827, the board 6f justices prayed the court to
appoint a commissioner to convey Sargeant's title; whereupon
the court passed an order concluding in the following words,
viz.:
"And it appearing to the satisfaction of the court now here,
that proper and legal notices have been given of this motion, it
is therefore, by the court now here, ordered, that Richard Johnson be appointed commissioner to convey by good and sufficient
deed unto the board of justices of Tippecanoe county, or their
successors in office, said lots and parcels of ground in pursuance
of the aforesaid bonds, in fee-simple, for and on behalf of the
heirs of the said Samuel Sargeant, deceased."
On the 5th of April, 1828, Richard Johnson executed the
deed.
On the 17th of November, 1846, Phineas 0. Sargeant, Nabby
Sargeant, Jabez Sargeant, and Benjamin B. Sargeant, heirs at
law of Samuel Sargeant, deceased, and resident citizens of Vermont, brought an action of ejectment in the Circuit Court of the'
United States, for a part of the property, against the State Bank
of Indiana.
in May, 1848, the cause came on for tria!, when the jury,
under certain instructions from the court, found a verdict for the
defendant.
The bill of exceptions extended over twenty-five pages of the
printed record., and, therefore, cannot be inserted at length.
The plaintiffs having proved a title in Sargeant and their
heirship, rested their case.
The defendant gave in evidence the record-book of the justices of Tippecanoe county; the report of the commissioners
appointed to locate the seat of justice; the execution of the
title-bond; and then offered in evidence the record of the Tippecanoe Circuit Court relative to the execution of the deed by
Johnson.
To the production of which aforesaid record in evidence by
the said defendant the said plaintiffs then and there objected,
upon the following grounds assumed by them, namely: The proceedings were coram wojudice, and void; as the court had no
jurisdiction of the person nor of the subject-matter; the bond
being void, the court had no jurisdiction to entertain proceedings
upon it; the proceedings were between no parties known at the
time to the law in Indiana. There was no legal notice of the
proceeding; the preliminary steps were* not taken to confer
jur diction, and jurisdiction never attached; and at the time of
making said objection, and before the said defendant had closed
its evidence, the said plaintiffs offered to produce in evidence to
the court the following authenticated copy of a paper, to wit:
VOL. XII,

32

874

SUPREME

COURT.

Sargeant et al. v. The State Bank of Indiana.

(The paper was a notice published in the newspaper, which
was for the heirs to appear at a different time and term from
that at which the proceedings were held, and an affidavit of its
publication, indorsed "Filed 7th November, 1827," Hoover,
clerk.)
To the production of this paper in evidence, the defendant
objected.
The defendant then offered in evidence a confirmatory deed,
signed by Sargeant's co-obligors in the bond, and by Johnson as
representing Sargeant.
To the production of which last-mentioned copy in evidence
the said plaintiffs then and there bbjected, on the grounds assumed by them that the same was void, having been executed without any authority of law, and there being no vendors named in
the deed; which said several objections, so made by said plaintiffs as aforesaid, the court then and there overruled, and permitted the said papers and copies, and edch of them, so offered
by said defendant as aforesaid, to be read in evidence, and they
were read in evidence to the jury by the said defendant.
This was all the material testimony on behalf of the defendant.
After the evidence for the defendant had been closed, the plain.
tiffs proved that the first election for justices of the peace, for
Tippecanoe county, was held on the third Monday in June,
eighteen hundred and twenty-six, pursuant to the proclamation
of the Governor of Indiana in that behalf, and that the commissions of said justices, as appears from the records of the Secretary of State of Indiana, bear date on
; and
that said justices held their first session on the eighth day of
July, eighteen hundred and twenty-six, (being Saturday,) as set
forth in the foregoing record thereof; and that said justices did
not hold any other session, or meet as a board at any other time,
until after the death of said Samuel Sargeant.
And after the evidence on both sides had been closed, the
said plaintiffs moved the court to charge the jury as follows, to
wit:
1. That the title-bond given in evidence by the defendant is
void as- against Samuel Sargeant and his heirs, for want of an
obligee in being capable of being contracted with at the time of
the delivery of said bond.
2. That the said title-bond is a nullity as against said Sargeant and his heirs.
3. That the record, and proceedings of the Tippecanoe Circuit Court, and the commissioner's deed in pursuance thereof,
are wholly void, and did not divest the title of Samuel Sargeant's
heirs.

DECEMBER TERM,

1851.

875

Sargeant et al. v. The State Bank of Indiana.

4. That the certified copy of the notice, and proof of publica.
tion given in evidence by the plaintiffs, is a part of the record of
the proceedings of the Tippecanoe Circuit Court, and as such
may explain and qualify the statement in the record, that proof
was made that "due and legal notices had been given;" which
said several instructions and each of them the court refused to
give to the jury; but charged the jury that the said record of
the Tippecanoe Circuit Court is not void, and that the above
proof, so produced and given in evidence by the said defendant,
is competent evidence to prove a dedication to public use, and
the title of the premises in controversy out of the lessors of the
plaintiffi.
To which said several opinions and decisions of the court in
admitting said evidence, so as above offered by the defendant
and objected to by the plaintiffs, and in refusing to charge the
jury as moved by.the said plaintiffs, as above stated, and to the
charge so as above given by the court to the jury, the said plaintiffs except, and pray that this their bill of excdptions may be
signed, sealed, and made a part of the record in this cause, which
is done, &c.; both parties agreeing in open couit that in making
up of the record, whenever the words "here insert" occur in
this bill of exceptions, the clerk shall copy and insert the documents indicated. And that the printed statutes of Indiana, so
far hs applicable to this cause, shall be deemed and taken as
part of the record in this cause, and so considered by the Supreme
Court.

JOHN McLEAN. [SEAL.]

Upon these exceptions, the case came up to this court, and
was argued by itlr. Smith for the plaintiffs in error, and Mr.
rlite for the defendant.
ll,. Sinith for the plaintiffs in error, contended, that the court
euffered illegal evidence to go to the jury, as stated in the bill of
exceptions, in admitting in evidence the title-bond set forth in
the bill of exceptions, because it created at most but an equity,
and could not be set up against the legal title in the case, even
if valid, and could not legally be given in evidence in the action
of ejectment. See 2 Blackford's Rep. p. 309, where the court uses
this language: " A person claiming by virtue of a title-bond
only, the premises for which an action of ejectment was brought,
applied to be made a defendant in the cause. Held, that as the
claim was merely of an equitable nature, the application could
not be granted."
This case sustains our position, that the title-bond was illegally admitted in evidence upon general principles. But we do
not rest the question here. We insist that the title-bond was

376

SUPREME

COURT.

Sargeant et al. v. The State Bank of Indiana.

void for the want of parties in esse at the time of its execution,
as appears upon its face. It was made payable thus, "Held, and
firmly bound unto the board of justice.s of Tippecanoe county
that may hereafter be organized, and their successors in office."
There was no board of justices or county commissioners in existence at the time, and no delivery of the bond could then take
place. It was therefore void at common law. Shep. Touch.
235; 1 Cruise, 418; 9 Mass. 419; Bacon's Abr. Obl. C; 4
Ohio R. 169. The latter case is precisely in point, the very
question having been before the court and decided. The bond
was also void as a statutory bond, as the commissioners appointed to locate the county seat were not authorized to take such a
bond. The act conferring the powers on these commissioners
provides that, "the commissioners shall take a bond to be made
payable to the board of county commissioners, and their successors in office." It is clear that the bondwhich theywere authorized to receive was to be made payable to a corporation in existence tnd its successors, and not to a corporation thereafter to
be created, or in other words, they were only authorized to receive a valid common-law bond. It was therefore clearly void
as a statutory bond, as well as a common-law bond. This point
was expressly decided, as we contend, in the case of John Sloane
v. David McConahy,4 Ohio, p. 169.
2. That the proceedings of Tippecanoe Circuit Court were
void, because in this particular it was a court of special and
limited jurisdiction, and it had not brought itself within it.
3. That the charge of the court was erroneous, because,
1st. It decides the weight and conclusiveness of the proof, and
leaves nothing for the juryto try, whose province it was toweigh
the testimony and find the facts, under the charge of the court,
as to the law of the case.
2d. The court in effect charges, that the title-bond and other
evidence, as given, prove a legal title in the defendant, which we
maintain is not the law, and cite the authorities already referred
to upon the same question.
3d. The court charges in effect, that the proof in the bill of
exceptions sustains this as a dedication to pablie use of the property in question. If this be so, then we yield the case, provided, a parol dedication can be given in evidence in ejectment to
defeat the legal title; but we submit that this was no dedication, and if it was, that a dedication by paici. does not carry the
fee under the laws of Indiana by which the- case must be decided, Vnd therefore a dedication cannot be given in evidence to
bar the legal title in the action of ejectment, unless there is an
adverse possession of twenty years, which is not pretended or
setup in this case,

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.
Sargeant et al. v. The State Bank of Indiana.

(The counsel then argued that this was not a dedication.)
AL. White, for defendant in error, contended that as to the
objection to the admissibility of the title-bond, because it proved
only an equitable title, we say,
It was also admissible, to relieve those proceedings from the
imputation of fraud, by showing the bond to have been the act
and deed of Samuel Sargeant, and that the consideration for
which it was given, was executed.
The title-bond was a part of the transaction, being the form
recognized by statute for making donations of land in such
cases.
A, party in possession under a title-bond, may, when sued in
ejectment, produce the title-bond to show that he was entitled
to notice to quit. Taylor v. McCrackin, 2 Blackford's Rep. 260.
In Right ex dern. Lewis v. Beard, on a contract of purchase
(part paid,) Lord. Ellenborough held notice to quit, necessary.
13 East. 210. See 1 Johns. 322; 9 Id. 330.
Itwas also allowable, to show an adverse possession of twenty
years, the conditions of the purchase or grant having been complied with. In 2 Penn. Rep. 454, the court say: "Whether
F. went into possession under an equitable title or under no
title at all, is immaterial, if he held as his own and denied the
right of J."
In Weakley ex denz. Yea v. Bucknell, Cowp. 473, Lord Mansfield allowed the party in possession to show an unstamped contract for a lease under which he had held for eighteen years,
although the lease had never been executed.
In replying to the remaining objection of the plaintiffs in error
against the title-bond, viz. : "that it is void for want- of an obligee ia esse at the time it was made," we would refer the court
to the several statutes of Indiana.
(The counsel then referred to several statutes of Indiana.)
It is objected that the record of Tippecanoe Circuit Court cannot be given in evidence, but that the proceedings of that court
were void.
The general proposition is so well settled, that the judgment
of a court of general jurisdiction cannot be collaterally impeached before another tribunal, that we shall only quote authorities
by way of illustrating the peculiarity of the points presented in
each case.
2 Binney, 41; 1 Pet. C. C. R. 155; 18 Pick. 393; 15 Ohio
Rep. 447; 17 Wend. 483; 2 How. 319; 4 Dana, 429; 10 Pet.
449; 7 Blackf. 547.
As to, the paper offered by the plaintiffs, relative to the notice,
it was but a loose office paper, and is not certified to be a part
of the proceedings.

878

SUPRFME COURT.
Sargeant et al. v. The State Bank of Indiana.

Mr. Justice DANIEL delivered the opinion of the court.
The facts upon which this case is founded are to the effect
following. The legislature of Indiana, having by a law bearing
date on the 20th January, 1826, laid off and established the
county of Tippecanoe in that State; by the same act appointed
four commissioners for the purpose of selecting and establishing
a seat of justice for the county thus created, in conformity with
the provision. of another statute of the State, passed on the 14th
of January, 1824, entitled "An act establishing seats of justice in
new counties,' and with the provisions of other acts amendatory of the law last mentioned. Pending the investigation of
the commissioners who took upon themselves the fulfilment of
the duties prescribed by the statutes above mentioned, proffers
were.made to them by various persons, proprietors of land in
. and adjacent to the town of Lafayette, of certain lots and parcels of land as donations to the county of Tippecanoe, and
amongst these proffers was that of the land involved in this suit,
then held by Samuel Sargeant, from whom the lessors of the
plaintiffs deduce their title. The commissioners having accepted
the donations offered as above mentiQned, and selected the town
of Lafayette as the seat of justice for the county of Tippecanoe,
took from the' several donors their joint and several title-bond,
dated May 4th, 1826, in the penalty of ten thousand dollars
payable to the board of justices of the county to be thereafter
organized, with condition that these obligors should convey by
deed with general warranty to the board of justices, on the 1st
day of October,, 1826, the lots and parcels of land contained in
their respective donations within the town of Lafayette, and
took also the separate bond of Samuel Sargeant, conditioned to
convey at the same period, by a like deed to the board of justices, another parcel of land of ten acres, adjoining the town, as
in the conditions annexed to those. bonds set forth. The board
of justices appointed by the Governor of Indiana for the county
of Tippecanoe, was organized on the 8th day of July, 1826, and
on that day received the report of the commissioners appointed
by law to select the seat of justice for the county of Tippecanoe,
and at the saune time received and accepted the joint and several
.obligation of Samuel Sargeant and others above mentioned; and
also the separate bond of Samuel Sargeant, conditioned for the
execution of a deed with general warranty to the board of justices for the tract of ten acres of land as before referred to, the
said Samuel Sargeant having been chosen their clerk by the
board of justices, entered upon the record their acceptance of
the title-bonds given by himself and others in his own handwriting. Samuel Sargeahit having died before the execution
of ariy deed either by the obligors in the joint and several bond,

DECEMBER

TERM, 1851.

379

Sargeant et al. v. The State Bank of Indiana.

or by Sargeant alone, in pursuance of his separate obligation,
proceedings were instituted at the November term, 1827, of the
Circuit Court of the county of Tippecanoe, for the appointment
of a commissioner, for the purpose of conveying to the board of
justices the title and interest held by Samuel Sargeant in his
lifetime in the lots and parcels of land mentioned in the joint
and several bond of Sargeant and others, and in the ten acres
oftand mentioned in the separate title-bond executed by Sargeant.
The Circuit Court appointed Richard Johnson a commissioner,
in conformity with the application, and this commissioner, conjointly with all the obligors except Sargeant, executed to the
board of justices a deed with general warranty for the lands
mentioned in the joint and several bond, and a separate deed
for the ten acres of land described in the bond given by Sargeant
individually. The proceedings of the Circuit Court of Tippecanoe, upon the petition of the board of justices, and the conveyances ordered by that court, took place in the years 1826 and
1827, and are of record.
In the year 1846, the lessors of the plaintiffs, representing themselves to be heirs at law of Samuel Sargeant, institutef this
their action of ejectment against the State Bank of Indiana, as
the tenant in possession of lots No. 90 and 132, situated in the
town of Lafayette. The said defendant also deducing title mediately from Samuel Sargeant, by purchase from the board of
justices for the county of Tippecanoe, no question therefore is
raised upon the validity of the title as originally existing in
Samuel Sargeant.
At the trial, the lessors of the plaintiffs having introduced evidence to show the death of Samuel Sargeant on the 31st of
July, 1826, and that the said lessors were his heirs at law, and
eviden~e also of the value of the property in dispute, there rested
their cause.
The defendant then offered in evidence the report of the commissioners appointed under the act of the legislature of January
20th, 1826, to locate the seat of justice for the county of Tippecanoe; the record of the appointment and qualification of the
board of justices for the said county in July, 1826; the delivery
to them and their acceptance of the title-bonds from the locating commissioners; their petition to the Circuit Court in order
to obtain a conveyance of the lands mentioned in the title-bonds;
the record of the proceedings ofthe Circuit Court of Tippecanoe upon the petition of the board of justices, and the conveyances to them made in pursuance of the judgment of that court,
as comprised in the foregoing statement of facts. Upon the
evidence thus submitted the jury found a verdict for the defendant.

SUPREME COURT.
Sargeant et al. v. The State Bank of Indiana.

The questions presinted for our consideration by this record
arise upon exceptions to the rulings of the court refusing certain
instractions asked by the plaintiffs with regard to the evidence
adduced by the defendant, and in charging the jury upon the
law applicable to that evidence as expounded by the court.
Thus the plaintiffs prayed the court to instruct the jury,- 1, That
the title-bonds given in evidence by the defendant were void as
against Samuel Sargeant and his heirs for want of an obligee
in existence 'capable of being contracted with at the time of
the delivery of these bonds.
2. That the title-bonds are a nullity as against the said Sargeant and his heirs.
3. That the record and proceedings of th Tippecanoe Circuit Court and the commissioners' deed in pursuance thereof are
wholly void, and did not divest the title of Samuel Sargeant's
heirs.
4. That the certified copy of the notice and proof of publication-given in evidence by the plaintiffs, is a part of the record
of the proceedings of the Tippecanoe Circuit Court, and as
such, may explain and qualify the statement in the record, that
proof was made that "due and legal notice" had been given.
These several instructions the court refused to give, but charged
the jury that the said record of Tippecanoe Circuit Court was
"not void, and that the proof produced and given, in evidence as
aforesaid by the defendant was competent to prove a dedication
to publie use, and the title of the premises in controversy out of
the les.sors of the plaintiffs. it was agreed by the parties in this
case that the printed statutes of Indiana, so far as they are applicable to the case, should be deemed and takeh as parts of the
record in .this cause, and be so considered by this court.
In considering the three first charges asked for by the plaintiffs,
this court can perceive no essential difference between them, but
regards them as resolving themselves into the single objection
of the want of an obligee or grantee capable of receiving any
legal rights from the acts of Samuel Sargeant; for it follows
necessarily that if any legal or equitable rights weie invested or
transferred by the title-bonds delivered by Sargeant in his lifetime to the commissioners, such rights could not remain in his
heirs. The fourth charge required of the court presents quite a
different question, and one going rather to the mode or form by
which the title to the property has been transferred or ratified,
than to the foundation of the right or title itself.
Although, if tested by the rules of law applicable to conveyances of real property, bonds like those executed and delivered
by Samuel Sargeant in his lifetime could not confer a legal
title, yet if adduced in support of a possession of twenty years,

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

381

Sargeant et al. v. The State Bank of Indiana.

held as in this instance, in pursuance of the express condition
of those bonds, they would seem to corroborate such possession
against an action founded upon the mere right of entry in the
obligor or his heirs.
But these bonds should not be judged of by the strict rules of
the common law, nor by the general principles applicable to
uses and trusts in the conveyance of legal titles, but should be
interpreted according to the local policy of the community which
called them into existence, and which has defined both their objects and effects. Whatever these bonds were designed to be,whatever purposes they were, by the local policy and laws of
Indiana, intended to accomplish in respect to the makers thereof,
or the beneficiaries therein named, this court should endeavor to
effectuate.
By the general law of Indiana, approved January 14th, 1824,
entitled "An act to establish the seats of justice in new coun.
ties," it is provided in section first, "that whenever anynew county
shall be laid off, ,five commissioners shall be appointed, whose
duty it shall be to locate the seat of justice in such new county,
to receive donations in land, and to take bond or bonds of any
person proposing to give any such lands, payable to the board
of county commissioners and their successors in office, and
conditioned for the -conveyance of such tract or tracts of land so
given or sold to such person as the county commissioners shall
appoint to receive the same, which bond or bonds the said commissioners shall deliver to the county commissioners, together
with a plain and correct report of their proceedings, containing
a particular description of the lands so selected for the county
seat." By section fourth of the same act, it is declared "that
the count commissioners, so soon as the report of the locating
commissioners is received, shall appoint a county agent, who
shall receive deeds for such donated lands, and lay them off into
lots," &c. The act of the Indiana legislature creating the
county of Tippecanoe, passed January 20th, 1826, by section
seventh, so far alters the general law of 1824, for the establishment
of new counties, as to substitute a board of five justices of the
peace, who shall constitute a board for transacting all other
county business, as well as the duties theretofore devolving on
the board of county commissioners in organizing a new county. This statute was to take effect on the 1st of March, 1826,
and, by its second section, the board of commissioners were appointed by name for the purpose of fixing a permanent seat of
justice for the county on the first Monday in May, 1826. The
election or appointment of the board of justices for the county
of Tippecanoe was, by the proclamation of the governor, to
take effect not until the
day of June following. The grants

882

SUPREME

COURT.

Sargeant et al. v. The State Bank of Indiana.

or donations to the locating commissioners having been authorized by law from the first Monday in May, 1826, and the grantees or ultimate beneficiaries, viz., the board of justices, not being
chosen or their election authorized until after the
day of
June, 1826, if the objection alleged to the donations made or
received by the locating commissioners, viz., the absence of a
competent obligee or grantee, be sustained, then the whole legislation of the State upon this subject, and the obvious purposes
of that legislation, must be defeated. Such a result, however,
can hardly be reconciled with either the provisions or the purposes bf the legislation of Indiana in reference to this subject;
for by the general law of that State, ap'oroved January 14th,
1824, regulating the establishment of new counties, we find it
provided that the commissioners appointed to locate the seat of
justice in a new county, and to receive the donations and to take
the bonds mentioned in that law, are required, together with
their report, to deliver said title-bonds to the county comnissioners. This delivery, therefore, of the bonds so taken, must
have been by this general provision intended to refer to some
period after these county commissioners or board of justices
had come into existence. We think -there can be no question as
to the power of the State to create or authorize a contract
which should operate in this mode.
The acts of the board of commissioners for selecting the
county seat, those of the board of county justices, and of the
donors of lands to the county, all conform to this construction.
Thus in the case before us, the title-bonds were taken by the
former board, were by them subsequently, together with their
report, delivered to the board of justices; and Samuel Sargeant,
who had previously deposited the title-bonds executed by himself with the former board, and who had been subsequently appointed the clerk of the county justices, in his character of clerk,
certifies the record of these proceedings.
Ve think, therefore,
that the Circuit Court for the District of Indiana properly refused
to pronounce the bonds executed by Samuel Sargeant, and tie
proceedings of the board of commissioners and of the b6ard of
justices void, and correctly allowed them to be given to the jury
as competent evidence to be weighed by them in expounding
the provisions of the statutes of Indiana above referred to.
Should it be conceded that the execution of the title-bonds by
Samuel Sargeant in his lifetime, and the proceedings on the
part of the board of commissioners and of the board of justices
did not, under the statutes of Indiana, confer a legal title on the
county, or clearly divest the title of Sergeant; yet, these acts
standing alone and unconnected with the proceedings of the
Circuit Court of Tippecanoe, show an equity on the part of tbe

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

383

Sargeant et al. v. The State Bank of Indiana.

county which clearly authorized them to call for the legal title
from Sargeant. They show a written contract formally entered
into and solemnly recognized by him, and a fair equivalent or consideration for that contract, in the enhanced value of property
arising from the establishment of the seat of justice, forming an
obligation from which neither Sargeant nor his heirs could withdraw without the perpetration of a gross fraud.
This brings us to a consideration of the fourth charge asked
of the Circuit Court in the trial below, and of the decision of
,the court thereupon, involving the regularity of the proceedings
at the suit of the county justices in the Circuit Court of Tippecanoe, in order to perfect their title stipulated for in the bonds
executed by Samuel Sargeant. The court was requested by
the proposed charge to say to the jmr, that a certified copy of
a notice and proof of publication offered in evidence by the
plaintiffs, were a part of the record of the proceedings of the
Tippecanoe Circuit Court, and, as such, might explain and
qualify the statement of the record itself, that proof was made
that "due and legal notices had been given," which charge the
court refused to give, but charged the jury that the said record
of the Tippecanoe Circuit Court is not void, and that the above
proof, so produced and given in evidence by the said defendant,
is competent evidence to show a dedication to public use, and
the title of the premises out of the lessors of the plaintiffs.
Of the correctness of the Circuit Court in refusing this last
charge, we entertain no doubt whatever. With a view of determining the propriety of this rejection by the Circuit Court, it
may be proper here to refer to an act of the legislature of the
State of Indiana, approved on the 20th of January, 1826, entitled "An act amendatory of the law for the better advancement
of justice," (under which statute the decision of the Circuit
Court of Tippecanoe, impugned by the plaintiffs below, was
made.) By the tenth section of this statute it is provided, "that
whenever any person or persons who shall have executed, or
hereafter shall execute his or their obligation for the conveyance
of any real estate to any person or persons, body politic or corporate, shall die intestate or without having made the necessary
provisions by will for the conveyance of such estate, it shall be
lawful for the obligee or obligees in such bonds, or his or their
assignees, to apply to the Circuit Court of the county in which
such real estate lies, to appoint a commissioner to convey the
same in conformity with the conditions of the said obligation,
by a deed to be by such commissioner executed, of the same
tenor and effect as the deceased obligor was bound to make in
his lifetime; provided the person or persons making such application as aforesaid, shall first give four weeks personal notice to

384

SUPREME

COURT.

Sargeant et al. v. The State Bank of Indiana.

the heir or heirs of such obligor or obligars if residents of the
State, and if non-residents, then three months notice of such application, by advertising the same three weeks successively in
the nearest public newspaper to which the said real estate is
situate - and the commissioner shal," &c., &c.
Under the authority of the section just quoted, application in
the name and on behalf of the county of Tippecanoe was made
by petition to the judges of the Circuit Court of that county, for
the appointment of a commissioner to convey the lands mentioned in the title-bonds executed by Sargeant, and which he
had failed to convey in conformity -ith those obligations. In
setting forth the action of the court upon this petition, the record
contains the following statement: "Came into court Peter
Bughes, agent for the county of Tippecanoe by his attorneys,
and moves the court now here to appoint a commissioner to
convey real estate under and in conformity to a title-bond given
by Samuel Sargeant, deceased, and others therein named in his
lifetime, to the board of justices of Tippecanoe county and their
successors in office, which bond he now here files, for .the conveyance of certain town lots in the town of Lafayette in the
said bond mentioned and numbered. Also files a bond given by
the said Samuel Sargeant deceased, by himself, for the conveyance of ten acres of land east and adjoining the town of Lafayette, to the board of justices of the county and their successors
in office, and it appearing to the court now here, that proper and
legal notices have been given of this motion, it is by the court
now here ordered, that Richard Johnson be appointed commissioner to convey by good and sufficient deed unto the board of
justices of Tippecanoe 'county and their successors in office, the
said lots and parcels of ground, in pursuance of the aforesaid
bonds in fee-simple, for and on behalf of the heirs of Samuel
Sargeant, deceased." It is this record of the decision of the Circuit Court of Tippecanoe county, and particularly that portion
of it which states that the decision was pronounced after proper
and legal notices had been given to the heirs of Samuel Sargeant, that the plaintiffs asked of the court to charge was irregular and void, upon the strength of a paper purporting to be a
notice which they urged the court to consider as a part of the
record of the proceedings of the Tippecanoe Circuit Court, and
as such, explaining and qualifying the statement in that record,
that proof was made to the court of due and legal notice to the
heirs of Samuel Sargeant.
With respect to the propriety and regularity of this application to the Circuit Court, we would remark in the first place, that
the mere fact of a paper being found amongst the files of a
cause, does not of itself constitute it a part of the record of the

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.
Sargeant et al. v,

385

The State Bank of Indiana.

cause. In order to render it a part of the record it should form
some part of the pleadings in the cause, or be brought under and
ingrafted upon the action of the court by some motion from the
parties. Without this, such a paper can no more be a portion
of the record than would the knowledge of facts on the part of
a witness, who had been summoned and not examined, or the
oral testimony given to a jury, and not noted by exception or
otherwise. There is nothing in the record of the Circuit Court
of Tippecanoe to show that the paper on which this fourth
charge asked for by the plaintiffs is founded, was ever brought
to the notice of the court last mentioned. The real veritable
record inforrs us, that legal and sufficient notice was given to
the heirs of Samuel Sargeant, but whether by this paper or in
what other mode (except that it was legal and sufficient) we are
not told, and are not at liberty in this case to indulge in inferences against the verity of the record. It is a principle well
settled, too, in judicial proceedings, that whatever may be the
powers of a superior court, in the exercise of regular appellate
jurisdiction, to examine the acts of an inferior court, the proceedings of a court of general and competent jurisdiction cannot be
properly impeached and reexamined collaterally by a distinct
tribunal, one not acting in the exercise of appellate power. To
pernit the converse of this principle in practice, would unsettle
nine tenths of the rights and titles in any community, and lead
to infinite confusion and wrong. In support of a principle so
obvious and of such universal acceptation as is that just above
stated, a recurrence to cases would seem to be wholly unnecessary. VWe will mention, however, one in. this court, which, from
its direct appositeness to the question now under consideration,
may be regarded as conclusive. The case alluded to is that
of Grignon's lessee v. Astor. 2 Howard, 319. This was an
action of ejectment brought by the heirs of a decedent to recover lands which had been sold by the personal representative,
who, by the law of Michigan, was, in the event of a deficiency
of the personal assets to pay debts, authorized to sell the real
estate, upon a license granted him to effect such sale, but to be
obtained only upon proofs prescribed by the statute to be made
before the court by which the license to the administrator was
to be -ranted. The objection to the title of the purchaser was,
that by the record of the court granting the license to the administrator to sell, it was apparent that the prescribed evidences of
deficiency of the personal assets had not been adduced, and that
the court had therefore exceeded the powers with which it was
clothed by the statute. The language of the record is as follows: "The petition of Paul Grignon, administrator on the
estate of Pierre Grignon, late of the county of Brown, deceased,
VOL. xir.

33

386

SUPREME COURT.
Sargeant et al. v.

The

State Bank of Indiana.

was filed, praying for an order from the court, to authorize him
to dispose of the real estate of the said Pierre. In consideration
of the facts alleged in said petition, and for divers other good
and sufficient reasons, it is ordered, that he be empowered as
aforesaid."
In overruling the objection made to the title derived from the
personal representative, this court said, p. 339: "The record of
the County Court shows that there was a petition representing
some facts by the administrator who prayed for an order of sale;
and the court took those facts into consideration, and for these
and divers other good reasons, ordered that he be empowered to
sell." Again this court say, p. 340: "After the court has passed
on the representation of the administrator, the law- presumes
.that it was accompanied by the certificate of the judge of probate, as that was a requisite to the action of the court. Their
order of sale was evidence of that or any other fact which was
necessary to give them the power to make it; and the same remark applies to the order to give notice to the parties. This is
a familiar principle in ordinary adversary actions, in which it is
presumed ifter verdict, that the plaintif" has proved every fact
which is indispensable to his recovery, though no evidence appears on the record to show it; and the principle is of more
universal application in proceedings in rem after a final decree
by a court of competent jurisdiction over the subject-matter."
Again say the court, "The record is absolute verity, to contradict
,which, there can be no averment or evidence; the court having
power to make the decree, it can be impeached only by fraud in
the party obtaining it." Several decisions by this court upon
this particular point will be found cited .in the opinion above
quoted as delivered by the late Justice Baldwin, who concludes
that opinion with the following .triking and cogent observations: "We do not," said that learned judge (alluding particularly to the case of Vorhees v. The Bank of the United States,
10 Pet. 473,) "think it necessary, now or hereafter, to retrace
the reasons or the authorities on which the decisions of this
court in that case and those which preceded it rested; they are
founded on the oldest and most sacred principles of the common
law. Time has consecrated them; the courts of the States
have followed, and this court has never departed from them.
They are rules of property on which the repose of the country
depends; titles acquired under the proceedings of courts of competent jurisdiction must be deemed inviolable in collateral actions, or none can know what is his own; and there are no
judicial sales around which greater sanctity ought to be placed,
than those made of the estates of decedents by order of those
courts to whom the laws of the States confide full jurisdiction

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.
Saltmarsh v. Tuthill.

over the subjects." By the doctrine thus ruled the decision of
the Circuit Court is fully sustained,, and, upon a review of the
whole case, it is the opinion of this court that the decision of the
Circuit Court be, and the same is hereby, affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Indiana, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court, that
the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause be, and the
same is hereby, affirmed, with costs.

ALANSON

SALTMIARSH V. JAMES

W.

TUTHILL.

Where an appeal was taken in a common-law case instead of a writ of error, and
after the lapse of ten days the plaintiff issued an execution upon his judgment, and
the defendant then sued out a writ of error to bring the case up to this court, it was
error in the court below to quash the execution and supersede the judgment.
The appeal did not remove the case, and the writ of error was sued out too late to

stay execution. It is immaterial whether it was a mistake of the party or the
court.
Thequestion resered is whether this court has the power to issue a mandamus to the
judge below, commanding him to set aside the supersedeas and order the clerk to
issuo an execution.

A MOTION was made for a mandamus in this case, to compel
the district judge to set aside an order of supersedeas and to
order the clerk to issue an execution.
The circumstances were these: At the fall term, 1849, of the District Court of the United
States for the Mliddle District of Alabama, Tuthill obtained a
judgment against Saltmarsh in a common-law case.
Saltmarsh took an appeal in open court, and at the same time
executed an appeal-bond, in a penalty of double the amount of
the'judgment.
After the expiration of ten days, Tuthill caused execution to
be issued on the judgment. Before the return of this writ, Saltmarsh sued out a writ of error, and filed a writ of error bond.
At the return term of the execution, viz., Iay, 1850, Salt.
marsh moved the court to quash the execution and to supersede
the judgment. Both motions were granted. The execution
was quashed, and it was further considered and ordered by the
court, that a writ of supersedeas be, and the same is hereby,
awarded, commanding the clerk of the District Court of the

