DECENBER

TERM, 1851.

Williams, Trustee, v. Oliver et

125

al.,

title of the plaintiff in error to Gooding's interest in this fund
under the insolvent proceedings was against him in the court
below, and was one which, in our judgment, involved only a
question of State law, and, therefore, not the subject of - avision here, and was conclusive upon his rights, and decisive of
the case, it follows that we have no jurisdiction within the principle of the cases to which we have referred; for the determination of the court upon the validity of the act of the
legislature of 1841 in no way controlled -the judgment at
which the court arrived, as respected the plaintiff. That turned
upon the decision as to the right of the plaintiff to the fund
under the insolvent proceedings, as permanent trustee of Gooding, and whatever might have been the opinion of the court
upon the other question, the result of their judgment would
have been the same.
For the reason, therefore, that this case falls directly within
the decision of Gill v. Oliver's Executors, and is not distinguishable-from it, the case must take the same direction, and be dismissed for want of jurisdiction.
Order.
This caus came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Court of Appeals of the State of Maryland for the
Western Shore, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court, that
this cause be, and the same is hereby, dismissed, for the want of
jurisdiction.

NATHANIEL

WILLIAMS, AS PERMANENT

TRUSTEE

FOR THE. CRE-

DITORS OF JOHN GOODING, AN INSOLVENT DEBTOR, V. CHARLES
OLIVER, ROBERT M. GIBBES, AND THOMAS OLIVER, EXECUTORS OF ROBERT OLIVER, AND JOHN GLENN AND DAVID M.

PERRINE, TRUSTEES.
The decision in the preceding case of Williams, Trustee, v. Oliver's Executors, again
affirmed.

THIS case was also, like the preceding one, brought up from
the Court of Appeals of Maryland, by a writ of error issued
under the 25th section of the Judiciary Act.
The circumstances of the two cases were the same. In both,

Winchester was thd trustee who sold the share to Oliver. and
the same act of Assernbly.applied to both. The judgrnent aiid
11',

126

SUPREME

COURT.

Dorsey v. Packwood.

reasons of the Court of Appeals covered both cases, and they
were argued in this court together by the same counsel.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opiniol of the court.
This case involves the same principles as the case of Wil.liams, permanent Trustee of James Williams, already decided;
and we refer to the opinion there delivered for our decision in
this case.
The case is dismissed for want of jurisdiction.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on- the transcript of the record from the Court of Appeals of the State of Maryland for
the Western Shore, and was argued by counsel.- On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court,
that this cause be, and the same is hereby, dismissed, for the
want of jurisdiction.

GREENBERRY DoRSEY, COMPLAINANT AND
UEL PACKWOOD.

APPELLANT, V. SAMX-

An agreement, whereby the purchaser of a plantation "bound himself to transfer to
his son-in-law one half of the plantation, slaves, cattle, and stock, as soon as the
son-in-law should pay for one half of the cost of said property, either with his
own private means, or with one half of the profits of the plantation," was deficient
in mutuality.
son-in-law
money.
It wasThe
a nude
pat. was not bound to render any services nor pay any

rt was not an alternative obligation upon the

son-in-law, Because the election to pay

his
half out of the profits would ave been merely paying with another mants
money.
Even if the agreement possessed mutuaity, there was no performance, or offer of
performance by the son-in-law for twventy-seven years.
Moreover, fifteen years after the agreement, when the plantation was likely to prove
a ruinous purchase, the son-in-law abandoned and released all his claim.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Eastern District of Louisiana.
The leading facts in the case are stated in the opinion of the
court, to which the reader is referred.
Upon the hearing in the Circuit Court, the bill was dismissed,
and Dorsey appealed to this court.
It was argued by Mr.Hendersor for the appellant, and 11r.
Butler for the appellee.
M7Jr. Henderson, for the appellant, filed an elaborate argument,

