DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

21

Smith v. Clark et al

engraved on the sides by a similar process, should be charged
with the duty of 40 per centum ad valorem, under schedule 9
of said act, as cut glass. Whereupon, it is now here ordered
and adjudged by this court that it be so certified to the said
Circuit Court.

FRANCIS 0. J. SMITH, APPELLANT,

V.

JOSEPH W.

CLARK, ET AL.

Where a motion is made to docket and dismiss a case under the 43d rule of this
court, the certificate of the clerk of the court below, upon which the motion is
founded, must state the names of the parties to the suit.

Joseph W. Clark and others.

The names of the "others"

It is not enough to say,

ought to be set forth.

A MOTION Was made by Mr. Woodbury to docket and dismiss
this case under the 43d rule of this court. The case purported
to be an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United States for
the District of Massachusetts. The certificate of the clerk of the
Circuit Court is set forth in the order passed by this court, and
to be found at the end of this report. It is, therefore, unnecessary
to repeat it.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
A motion has been made to docket and dismiss this case, under the 43d rule of this court.
The certificate of the clerk states, that, in the Circuit Court of
Mlassachusetts, in a cause depending in ihat court, in which
Francis 0. J. Smith was complainant in equity, and Joseph W.
Clark and others were respondents, a final decree in that court
was made on the 17th of October, 1850, in favor of the said
Joseph W. Clark and others, respondents, from which the said
Francis 0. J. Smith appealed on the same day; and'on the
30th of October filed his appeal-bond with sureties, whereby
execution on the decree was suspended.
The certificate conforms to the rule in all respects but one,
and that is in the statement of the parties. The respondents are
stated to be Joseph W. Clark and others, from which, as well as
from the statement in the motion, it appears that there were
other respondents parties to the suit., who are not named in the
certificate.
The 43d rule provides, that where the party against whom a
judgment or decree is rendered, fails to file the record and docket
the case within the time limited by the rule, the other party may

.22

SUPREME COURT.
Smith v. Clark et aL

docket the case and file a copy of the record with the cierk, in
which case it shall stand for argument at the term; or he may,
at his election, have the case docketed and dismissed upon producing a certificate from the clerk stating the cause, and certifying that such a writ of error or appeal had been duly sued out
and allowed.
Now, where the unsuccessful party brings a writ of error, all
the parties to it must be named in the writ; and the name of
one or more of them "and others" is not a sufficient description
to bring those not named before the court. It was so decided
in Deneale -& others v. Stump's Executors, 8 Pet. 526. And
the same principle was applied to a writ of error docketed under
the 43d rule, in the case of Holyday e al. v. Batson et al, 4 How.
645. And the reason for requiring all the parties, whose interests are to be affected by the judgment, to be named in the
writ of error, applies with equal force to the case of an appeal
from a decree.
'Where the party, in proceeding under the 43d rule, elects to
file the record and try the cause, the record must certdinly be as
full and complete as the one which would be required from the
opposing party. It must name all the persons which the writ
of error or appeal is intended to bring before the court; otherwise there could be no judgment or decree for or against them.
And upon the same ground, the same thing must be done
when the case is docketed in order to obtain a judgment of dismissal. The prpceeding is in the nature of a writ of error or
appeal, in which' the party, in whose favor the judgment or
decree was rendered, is allowed to bring the case before this
eoiirt, in order to prevent unnecessary delay. And all the parties
to the judgment or decree, whose interests are to be affected by
docketing and dismissing the suit, axe regarded as' in court, for
the purpose of being parties to the judgment of dismissal. Nor
could the Circuit Vourt regularly issue an execution for or
against a persor not named; as it would not appear that he
had been a party to the proceeding here, or that there had been
a judgment of dismissal for or against hin.
The rule of which we are speaking, was framed upon mis
principle: It requires that the certificate of the clerk should
"state the cause," and this is not done unless the parties to it
are named.
A departme from the rule might 'lead to very loose practice,
and perhaps to abuses. We think it more safe to adhere to the
established practice in this respect; and have used this occasion
to state it the more fully, in order that the members of the bar
and the clerks of the courts may in future avoid mistake.
The motion to docket and dismiss in this case is overruled.

DECEMBER TERM,. 1851.

23

Smith v. Clark et al.

Order.
Francis O. i Snith, Appellant, v. Joseph W. Clark et al.
Mr. Woodbury, having filed and read the following certificate,
viz. "United States of America, /
Massachusetts Distric4 1s
"1I, Isaac 0. Barnes, Clerk of the Circuit Court of the United
States for the F.lrst Circuit and District of Massachusetts, do hereby certify, that in a certain cause pending in said court, wherein
Francis 0. J. Smith was complainant, in equity, and Joseph W.
Clark et al., were respondents, a final decree in said cause was
made by the court on the seventeenth day of October, A. D.
1850, in favor of, the said Joseph W. Clark et al., respondents,
as aforesaid, - whereupon an appeal was prayed by the said
Francis 0. J. Smith, complainant, as aforesaid, on the said
seventeenth day of October, A. D. 1850, and, on the thirtieth
day of said October, A. D. 1850, the said Francis 0. J. Smith,
complainant, as aforesaid, fled a bond with sureties in the sum
of one thousand dollars. And thereupon the execution of the
said final decree was suspended, and the said appeal has operated as a supersedeasin said cause.
"In testimony whereoi; I have hereunto set my
hand and affixed the seal of the said Circuit
Seal.]
Court, at Boston, this thirtieth day of December, A. D. 1851, and the Independence of
the United States of America the seventysixth.
"ISAAC 0. BARNES, Clerk."
now here moved the court to docket and dismiss this appeal
under the 43d rule of tis court. On consideration whereof, it
is the opinion of this court that the titling of the case in the certificate is too vague and uncertain: Whereupon it is now here
ordered by the court that the said motion be, and the same is
hereby overruled.

