DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

139

Russell v. Southard et al.
C. RUSSELL, APPELLANT, v. DANIEL R. SOUTHARD,
SAMUEL D. TOMPKINS, AND WILLIAM C. BULLETT AND WILLIAM H. POPE, ADMINISTRATORS or JAMES BURKS, DECEASED,
WILLIAM L. THOMPSON, GUARDIAN TO JAMES BURKS, SAMUEL

GILBERT

BURKS, CHARLES BURKS, AND NANCY BURRS, INFANT CHILDREN
Or JAMES BURKS, DECEASED, MATILDA BURKS AND JOHN BURKS,
HEIRS OF SAID JAMES BURKS, DECEASED.
When the question before a court of equity is, whether a deed which purports upon
its face to be an absolute deed, was in reality a deed or a mortgage, extraneous evidence is admissible to show that it was only a mortgage.
Upon such a question as this, depending upon the general principles of equity jurisprudence, this court does not hold itself bound by the decisions of the highest court
of tfe state in which the land in question was, but will be governed by its own
view, of those principles.
The decisions of the courts of Kentucky examined.
Such evidence is admissible when it is alleged and proved that a loan on security was
really intended and the defendant sets up the loan as a payment of purchase-money
and the conveyance as a sale.
In examining the question whether the transaction was a sale or mortgage, it is of
great importance to inquire whether the consideration was adequate to induce a
sale.
In the present case, the court decides, from the evidence, that the consideration was
grossly inadequate; that he was a stranger, without friends or other resources there
than the land in question; that it is true he offered to sell, but there is no evidence
to show that he offered to sell for the amount of money which he actually received.
The papers executed between the .arties show a conditional sale; but in doubtful
eares the court leans to the conclusion that the reality was a mortgage and not a
sak.
The absence of a personal obligation by the grantor to repay the money furniihes
no conclusive test to determine whether the conveyance was a mortgage or a conditional sale.
Nor do the facts that the grantor endeavored to obtain the relinquishment of his wife's,
dower, Pad actually surrendered the paper under which he had the right to reclaim his land, amount to a bar of his claim, under the circumstances of this
case.
Three years after the tranzaetion the grantor received one hundred dollars from the
grantee upon the ground of an arithmetical error, and signed a release of all further demands. But apart from other considerations bearing upon the purchase of
an equity of redemption, in the present ease it was the duty of the grantee to correct errors, and consequently he paid nothing for the equity of redemption.
Where there was a long lapse of time and the original mortgagee had been dead for
many years, an account of rents and profits and of interest upon the money loaned,
will be decreed to commence from the filing of the bill.
Where there were purchasers during the intermediate time, and the record did not
enable this court to determind upon their rights, the case will be remanded to the
Circuit Court for its adjudication thereon.
A motion made in this court after the decision of the case here, to set aside the decree and remand the ease to the Circuit Court for further preparation and proof,
upon the ground that new and material evidence has beeea discovered since the
trial of the case in that court, -cannot be stistained.
Affidavits of newly-discovered testimony cannot be received. This court-must affirm
or reverse upon the case as it appears upon the record.
The established chancery practice is so, and if it were not, the act of Congriss, passed
on Barch 3, 1803, would be derisive of the question.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Kentucky, sitting as a court of equity.

140

SUPREME

COURT.

Russell v. Southard et al.

It -was a bill fifed by Russell, the appellant, to redeem what
he called a mortgage, and the question in the case was whether
it was a mortgage or conditional sale. The facts are set forth
in the opinion of the court. Upon the trial, the Circuit Court
dismissed the bill, and Russell appealed to this court.
It was argued by Mr. Underwood and Mr. Morehead, with
whom was Mr. Clay, for the appellant, and by Mr. Nicholas for
the appellee.
The counsel for the appellant made the following points:
1. That the execution of a defeasance simultaneously with
the absolute conveyance, constitutes them, in legal contemplation,
one instrument; and that in this case the execution of the defeasance was so. 3 J. J. Marsh. 354; Powell on Mortg. 67.
2. That in all doubtful cases the law will construe the contract to be a mortgage, and that courts are less inclined to consider a contract for land a conditional sale than the same kind
of contract for personalty; because land is not so liable to the
casualties incident to personal, and especially living property.
The general and governing principle in this entire class of cases
is, that whatever clauses or covenants there are in a conveyance,
though they seem to import an absolute disposition or condiupon the whole, it appears to have been
tional purchase, yet if,
the intention of the parties that such conveyance *hould only be
a mortgage, or pass an estate redeemable, a court of equity will
construe it so. 5 Bac. Ab. 5. In the case of Edrington v.
Harper, decided by the Court of Appeals of Kentucky, 3 J. .
Marsh. 354, the general rule is laid down, that if there be no other
fact to illustrate the intention of the parties, but an absolute
sale on one side and a defeasance on the other, the court will
incline to the construction that the contract was a mortgage.
In the case of Flagg v. Mann, 2 Sumner, 535, the same doctrine is ably efiforced; the presiding judge, in the course of his
decision, remarking that "it is well known that 'ourts of equity
lean against construing contracts of this kind to be conditional
sales ; and, therefore, unless the transaction be clearly made out
to be of that nature, it is always construed to be a mortgage,"
and concluding that "the onus probandi is on the defendant to
establish it to be a conditional sale. If it be doubtful, it must
be Ponstrued to be a mortgage."
3. That a sale in form, but which in fact and substance may
be avcaded by the payment of money within a given time, is,
andwih be held to be, a mortgage; if a mortgage until that
period elapses, it must continue a mortgage until lapse of time
or some o~her matter changes it. Wheeland v. Swartz, 1
Yeates, 579; Istoever v. Stoever, 9 Serg. & Raw. 434; Wharf v.

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.
Russell v.

141

Southard et al.

Howell, 5 Binney, 499; Dimond v. Enoch, Add. 356; Coldwell
v. Woods, 3 Watts, 188; Friedly v. Hamilton, 17 Serg. &
Rawle, 70; 7 W. & Ser. 339; Kunkle v. Wolfersberger, 6
Watts, 126; Kerr v. Gilmore, Ib. 405; Rankin v. Mortimere, 7
Watts, 372; Brown v. Nickle, 6 Barr, 390; Hamet v. Dundass,
4 Barr, 178; Flagg v. Mann,'2 Sumner, 532; Skinner v. Miller, 5 Litt. 85; Hardin, 6; 2 J. J. Marsh. 471; 3 J. J. Marsh. 354;
1 Dev. Eq. 373; 2 Call, 421; 2 Mon. 40; 1 Wash. 125; 4
Hen. & Munf. 161; 3 Yerger, 525; 2 Haywood, 26; 2 Edwards,
138; 7 Johns. Ch. 40; 2 Id. 34, &c.; 6 Watts, 406, where the
cases are reviewed.
4. That the simultaneous execution of the deed and an instrument giving four months to repay the money, with interest, no
matter what may be the clauses or covenants intended to restrict
the redemption to this precise period, necessarily import the
loan of money on one side and security on the other, and, if so,
a court of equity will always construe it a mortgage.
5. That calling it a conditional sale does not make it so; and
that the extraordinary language used in this case, so far from
making it such, tends strongly to show that the spirit and real
substance of the contra'ct were understood, but attempted to be
avoided by the artful dress thrown around the transaction.
The counsel then examined the extrinsic evidence bearing,
upon these points, of which it is impossible to give an abstract.
6. Whether, construing this transaction as a mere security
for money advanced, any subsequent event has deprived the
complainant of his right to redeem? The giving up the defeasance and execution of the receipt, it is insisted, amounted to a
relinquishment or release of the equity of redemption. Russell
called on Southard, after the period stipulated for redemption,
to make good the advance mentioned in the deed. The receipt
recites the several sums which, with the addition of this $100,
make the amount stated in the deed, and concludes by saying
it was in full of all demands. According to the face of the
papers, Russell was allowed to redeem only by paying $4,929.81,
whereas he had only received $4,829.81. He insisted on the
$100 to m ae the sum he received equal to the obligation he
had imposed on himself. This is so elearly shown by the receipt itself that it would be useless to enlarge upon it. The
words at the end of the receipt, " This is in full of all demands

upon J. Southard," can only be construed as having reference to
moneyed claims. Russell, after the receipt of the $100, had no
demand upon Southard, and it only increased by that sum the
demand which Southard held on him. Increasing thq sum
which Russell was equitably bound to pay, if it be considered a
mortgage, and releasing all further demands on the mortgagee,

142

SUPREME COURT.
Russell v. Southard et al.

cannot be construed as destroying the liability which the advance only enlarged, and the right to redeem must consequently
be considered as unaffected by the receipt. The giving up the
defeasance at the same time was, therefore, without consideration.
Admitting, however, that it was an attempt on the part of
Southard to extinguish the right to redeem, -ill a court of
equity sanction it?
The civil law was, perhaps, more rigid on this point than
ours, regarding, as it did, the mortgagor as a minor, and as
having no will to do a valid act which Would deprive him of the
right to redeem. Our courts of equity have never gone to this
extent, but they always look upon any act done under the influence resulting from the relation between mortgagor and mortgagee with great suspicion, and never fail to examine it With the
severest scrutiny. It is not denied that the mortgagee May purchase the equity of redemption for a fair price and full consideration, under circumstances where the mortgagor could exercise
a will unembarrassed by necessity. A court of equity will
never sanction an arrangement by which the right of redemption
is surrendered without adequate cpnsideration. St. John v.,
Turner, 2 Vern. 418; 1 Ridgeway, 295; Powell on Mort ages,
122, note n; Holdridge v. Gillespie, 2 .ohns. Ch. 30 ; Henry v.
Davis, 7 Johns. Ch. 41; 2 Cowen, 322; 2 Day, 246; 1 Murphey,
117 ; Hicks v.. Hicks, 5 Gill & Johns. 75.
7. With respect to lapse of time, the suit was commenced
within twenty years of the date of the original transaction, and
within less than seventeen years after the advance of the $100.
The points made by Mr. Nicholas were the following:
1. Does the written proof concerning the agreement show a
conditional sale or a mortgage?
Over and above the unequivocal express language of the
agreement itself, that it is, and was intended to be, a conditional
sale from Southard, and not in the nature of a mortgage from
Russell, there is the absence of any of those indicia,upon which
courts rely in construing a quasi conditional sale to be a mortgage or security -.or a loan.
1st. There is no agreement, express or implied by Russell, to
pay the $4,900.
2d, There is no acknowledgment, express or implied, which
imports, or from which there could be inferred, an indebtedness
from Russell to Southard. There is nothing creating any personal liability upon Russell, or by which Southard could have
coerced the payment of the $4,900. There is nothing on the
face of the writings importing a loan, or any thing else than

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.
Russell v, Southard et al.

what they purport to be, the evidence of a conditional or defeasible sale.
There is, therefore, the want of that mutuality in the agreement, which, according to all the approved authorities, is indispensable to the construing of a conditional sale into a mortgage. Robinson v. Cropsey, 2 Edw. Oh. R. 138; 19 Wend 518.
The legality of these sales is, at this day, beyond all doubt,
even if there ever was room for a fair legal doubt on the subject. "To deny it," (says Oh. J. Marshall, delivering the opinion
of the whole court, in Conway v. Alexander, 7 Cranch, 236,)
"would be to transfer to a court of chancery, in a considerable
degree, the guardianship of adults as well as infants." In Flagg
v. Mann, 14 Pick. 480, the court says: " Such a contract is
known and recognized in law, and is as much to be enforced as
is a mortgage, or any other contract or agreement. A decision
to the contrary would essentially, unnecessarily, and unjustly
fetter and impair the right to manage and dispose of property,
according to the wants and interests of the owners." In Glover
v. Payne, 19 Wend. 522, the Supreme Court of New York says:
"Until the courts are prepared to make contracts for parties,
and to assume the guardianship of adults as well as infants,
such a contract cannot be declared a mortgage." "Conditional
sales, or defeasible purchases," says Chancellor Kent, "though
narrowly watched, are valid, and to be taken strictly as independent dealings between strangers; and the time limited for the
repurchase must be precisely observed, or the vendor's right to
reclaim his property will be lost. The court never relieves the
grantor who neglects to. perform the condition on which the privilege of repurchase depends."
The obvious reason for this departure from the ordinary chancery rule, in requiring such strict performance of the condition
is, because there would otherwise be no mutuality in the agreement. The conditional vendee would be allowed to speculate
on the chances of a rise in the value of the property, by lying
by an indefinite time before he made his election to redeem,
whilst the vendor had no power to compel a redemption. For
the same reason, the want of power to coerce the payment of
the purchase-money, is held by all the,authorities as a controlling circumstance against construing a conditional sale into a
mortgage. Some of the earlier authorities say, that want of
mutuality is not an unanswerable argument, and some dicta in
more modern decisions seem to recognize that doctrine; but it
is believed that no case of approved authority can be found
within the last seventy years, construing a conditional sale into
a mortgage, where such mutuality did not exist. 19 Wend.
522; 1 A. K. Marsh. 169.

144

SUPREME COURT.
Russell v.

Southard et al.

The written proof in this case shows "no previous debt or
dealing, no loan in contemplation, no stipulation for the repayment of the money advanced, or right to coerce it, and no proposition for a treaty about a mortgage," but does most clearly
negative each of those propositions. We may, therefore, safely
conclude, that the agreement cannot be construed into a mortgage from the written evidence in the cause.
2. The next inquiry is, -can parol proof be let in, to contra.diet or vary the construction of the written agreement, for the
purpose of converting it into a mortgage?
The familiar general rule is, that this cannot be done either
at law or in chancery. The exception to the rule at law is,
where the parol proof is offered to establish alleged fraud in
obtaining the agreement, or some vice or illegality in its consideration.
Chancery allows the further exception, where a
party comes to obtain the correction of an alleged mistake in
the construction of the agreement. These are the only exceptions allowed in either court. In every other instance the rule
is inflexible and invariable in its rigid application.
It might be inferred, from the loose language of some respectable authorities, and The case of Conway v. Alexander, (7 Cranch,)
is among the number, that the letting in of parol proof, to establish .the loan of money in this class of cases, without any charge
of usury, was an additional exception. But it is believed never
to have been so decided, where that was the turning point in
the case. The contrary has been expressly and repeatedly decided by the Appellate Court of Kentucky, and such has long
been the settled law of that State. In 1824, that court, composed of those eminent jurists, Boyle, Owsley, and Mills, after
acknowledging that there had been difference of decisions in that
court, sts elsewhere, on'the question, determined that the parol
proof could not be allowed. The rule, thus settled, has constantly been enforced ever since. It has become a law of property in Kentucky. Its direct, and indirect recognition, can be
found in at least twenty printed cases. In 1829, when there
was a change in the members of the court, the rul- was solemnly
affirmed in the strongest manner, in Fishback v. Woodford, I .
J.Marsh. 87. Again, in 1839, when there was another change in
the members of the court, and it was composed of judges lRobertson, Ewing, and Marshall, an effort was made to convert an
absolute deed into a mortgage, by parol proof, without 4harge
of accident or mistake, and the rule was reaffirmed in the following language, in Thomas v. McCormack, 9 Dana, 109.
"There being no written memorial of any condition or defeasance, neither the public interest, nor the established principles
of jurisprudence, will allow a court of either equity or law to

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

145

Russell v. Southard et al

admit parol testimony, in opposition to the legal import of the
deed, and the positive denial in the answer, unless a foundation
for such evidence had been first laid by an allegation, and some
proof of fraud or mistake in the execution of the conveyance, or
of some vice in the consideration. This rule, though it may
operate harshly in a particular case, is, nevertheless, so salutary
and conservative, that an inflexible adherence to it is necessary
for effectuating the policy of the statute of frauds, and of giving
proper security to property, and full effect to solemrni contracts in
riting." " To admit such testimony, would operate a mischievous relaxation of wholesome rulesof law, open a wide door
to perjury, and greatly impair, if not altogether destroy, the efficacy and value of written memorials of contracts."
3. If correct in this position, then the complainant must
fail, as there is no foundation laid for letting in any parol proof,
to show the original transaction to have been a mere loan and
intended security for its repayment.
4. The next question is, whether Russell is not bound by
his release under seal.
5. The next question is, does the parol proof establish, in
contradiction to the writings, that the parties intended a-mortgage, and not a conditional sale?
The claim to the relief- sought here should be sustained by
the fullest and most indisputable proof, because of its staleness';
because it is in contradiction to the 'written agreement of the
parties, fairly made; because it is asserted long after the death
of James S outhard, the principal party, and that of Warden
Pope, the intelligent and respectable draftsman of the agreement;
because, no sufficient excuse is even pretended, much less proved,
for the long delay; because it is in opposition to Russell's voluntary release, made seventeen years before; and because all
the material allegations are positively denied, on oath, by the
defendant, Daniel Southard, who is charged to have been personally cognizant of the whole transaction.
Such is not at all the character of the proof. On the contrary, it very strongly corroborates the import of the writings,
and tends to show that the parties really intended a conditional
sale, and not a mortgage.
The counsel then examined the evidence upon this point.
Mr. Justice CURTIS delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a suit in equity to redeem a mortgage, brought here
by appeal from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Kentucky.
On the 24th day of September, 1827, Russell, the complainant,
conveyed, by an absolute deed in fee-simple, to James Southard,
VOL. LII.

13

146

SUPREME COURT.
Russell v. Southard et al.

deceased, whose brother and devisee, Daniel R. Southard, is the
principal party defendant in this bill, a farm, containing two
hundred and sixteen acres, situated about two miles from the
city of Louisville.
At the time the deed was delivered, and as part of the same
transaction, Southard gave to Russell a memorandum, the terms
of which are as follows:
" Gilbert C. Russell has sold and this day absolutely conveyed
to James Southard, said Russell's farm near Louisville, and the
tract of land belonging to said farm, containing two hundred
and sixteen acres, and the possession thereof actually delivered
on the following terms, for the sum of $4,929.81, cents, which
has been paid and fully discharged by the said Southard as follows, viz., first two thdusand dollars, money of the United
States, paid in hand; secondly, the transfer of a certain claim
in suit in the Jefferson Circuit Court, Kentucky, inthe name of
James Southard against Samuel I. Brown and others, now
amounting to the sum of $1,55 8 .87y; and thirdly, the transfer of anotb er claim in the same court, in the name of Daniel R.
Southard a ainst James C. Johnston and others, now an -untthe
ing to the sum of $1,270.94, as by reference to the records
more precise amounts will more fully appear. The said Gilbert
C. Russell has taken, and doth hereby agree to receive from said
Southard aforesaid, two claims against Brown, &c., and James
C. Johnston, &c., as aforesaid, without recourse in any event
whatever to the said James Southard, or his assignor, Daniel R.
Southard, of the claim of said Johnston, &c., or either, and to
take all risk of collection upon himself, and make the best of
said claim he can.
" The said James Southard agrees to resell and convey to the
said Russell the said farm and two hundred and sixteen acres
of land, for the sum of forty-nine hundred and twenty-nine [dollars] 81y cents, payable four months after the date hereof,
with lawful interest thereon from this date. And the said Russell agrees, and binds himself, his heirs, &c., that if the said sum
and interest be not paid to the said James Southard, or his
assigns, at the expiration of four months from this date, that
then this agreement shall be at an end, and null and void; and
the wife of said Russell shall relinquish her dower within a reasonable time as per agreement of this date. This agreement of
resale by the said James Southard to the said Russell, is 6onditional and without a valuable consideration, and entirely dependent on the payment, on or before the expiration of four .months
from and after the date hereof, of the said sum of $4,929.811.
and interest thereon from this date as aforesaid. And this agreement is to be valid and obligatory only upon the said James
-o

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

147

Russell v. Southard et al.

Southard, upon the punctual payment thereof of the sum and
interest as aforesaid, by the said Gilbert C. Russell.
"In witness whereof the parties aforesaid, have hereunto set
their hands and seals, at Louisville, Kentucky, on this 24th day
of September, 187.
GILBERT C. RUSSELL,
[SEAL.)
eJAMS SOUTHAD,
[SEAL.]
"Witness present, signed in duplicateJ.

C. JOHNSTON."

The first question is whether this transaction was a mortgage,
or a sale.
It is insisted, on behalf of the defendants,that this question is
to be determined by inspection of the written papers alone, oral
evidence not being admissible to contradict, vary, 'or add to,
their contents. But we have no doubt extraneous evidence is
admissible to inform the court of every material fact known to
the parties when the deed and memorandum were executed.
This is clear, both upon principle and authority. To insist on
what was really a mortgage, as a sale, is in equity a fraud, which
cannot be successfully practised, under the shelter of any written papers, however precise and complete they may appear to
be. In Conway v. Alexander, 7 Cranch, 238, C. Y Marshall
says: "Having made these observations on the deed itself, the
court will proceed to examine those extrinsic circumstances,
which are to determine whether it was a sale or a mortgage ;"
and in Morris v. Nixon, 1 Howard, 126, it is stated: " The
charge' against Nixon is, substantially, a fraudulent attempt to
convert that into an absolute sale, which was originally meant
to be a security for a loan. It is in this view of the case that
the evidence is admitted to ascertain the truth of the transaction, though the deed be absolute on its face."
These views are supported by many authorities. Maxwell v.
Montacute, Precedents in Ch. 526; Dixon v. Parker, 2 Ves.
sen. 225; Prince v. Bearden, 1 A. K. Marsh. 170; Oldham v:
Halley, 2 J. J. Marsh, 114; Whittick v. Kane, 1 Paige, 202;
Taylor v. Luther, 2 Sumner, 232; Flagg v. Mann, 2 Sumner,
538; Overton v. Bigelow, 3 Yerg. 513; Brainerd v. Brainerd,
15 Conn. R, 575; Wright v. Bates, 13 Vermont, R. 341; McIntyre v. Humphries, 1 Hoff. Ch. R. 331; 4 Kent, 143, note A.,
and 2 Greenel. Cruise, 86, note.
It is suggested that a different rule is held by the highest court
of equity in Kentucky. If it were, with great respect for that
learned court, this court would not feel bound thereby. This
being a suit-in equity, and oral evidence being admitted, or rejected, not by the mere force of any State statute, but upon the
principles of general equity jurisprudence, this court must be
goiremed by its own views of those principles. Robinson v.

148

SUPREME COURT.
Russell v. Southard et al.

Campbell, 3 Wheat. 212; United States v. Howland, 4 Wheat.
108; Boyle v. Zacharie et al. 6 Pet. 658; Swift v. Tyson,
16 Pet. 1; Foxcroft v. Mallett, 4 How. 379. But we do not
perceive that the rule held in Kentucky, differs from that above
laid down. That rule, as stated in Thomas v. McCormack, 9
Dana, 109, is that oral evidence is not admissible in opposition
to the legal import of the deed and the positive denial in the
answer, unless a foundation for such evidence had been first
laid by an allegation, and some proof of fraud or mistake in
the execution of the conveyance, or some vice in the consideration.
But the inquiry still remains, what amounts to an allegation
of fraud, or of some vice in the consideration-and it is the
doctrine of this court, that when it is alleged and proved that a
loan on security was really intended, and the defendant sets up
the loan as a payment of purchase-money, and the conveyance
as a sale, both fraud. and a vice in the consideration are sufficiently averred and proved to require a court of equity to hold the
transaction to be a mortgage; and we know of no court which
has stated this doctrine with more distinctness, than the Court
of Appeals of the State of Kentucky. In Edrington v. Harper,
3 J.J. Marshall, 355, that court declared -" The fact that the
real transaction between the parties was a borrowing and lending, will, whenever, or however it may appear, show that a deed
absolute on its face was intended as a security for money; and
whenever it can be ascertained to be a security for money, it is
only a mortgage, however artfully it may be disguised." We
proceed then to examine this case by the light of all the evidence, oral and written, contained in the record.
The deed and memorandum certainly import a sale; the
question is, if their form and terms were not adopted to veil a
transaction differing in reality from the appearance it assumed?
In examining this question it is of great importance to inquire whether the consideration was adequate to induce a sale.
When no fraud is practised, and no inequitable advantages
takei of pressing wants, owners of property do not sell it for a
consideration manifestly inadequate, and, therefore, in the cases
on this subject great stress is justly laid upon the fact that what
is alleged to have been the price bore no proportion to the value
of the thing said to have been sold. Conway v. Alexander, 7
Cranch, 241; Morris v. Nixon, I How. 125; Vernon v. Befhell, 2
Eden, 110; Oldham v. Halley, 2 J. J. Marsh. 114; Edrington
v. Harper, 3 J. 3. Marsh. 354.
Upon this important fact the evidence leaves the court in no
doubt. The farm, containing 216 acres, was about two miles
from Louisville, and abutted on one of the principal highways

DE.CEMBER TERM, 1851.
Russell v. Southard et al.

leading to that city. A dwelling-house, estimated to have cost.
from $10,000 to 12,000, was on the land.
In May, 1826, about 16 months before this alleged sale, Russell purchased the farm of John Floyd, and paid for it the sum
of $12,960. Some attempt is made to show, by the testimony
of Mr. Thurston, that this sum was not paid as the value of
the land; but what he says upon this point is mere conjecture,
deduced by him from hearsay statements, and cannot be allowed
to have any weight in a court of justice. There is some conflict in the evidence respecting the state of the fences and the'
agricultural condition of the lands at the time in question, but
we do not find any proof that the lands had been permanenfiy
run down, or exhausted; and considering the price paid by Russell, and the amount expended by 'ing, his agent, during the
sixteen months he managed the farm, we think the evidence
shows that, though the fences and buildings were not in the best
condition, yet their state was not such as to detract largely from
the value of the property. The consideration for tho alleged
sale was $2,000 in cash, and the assignment of two claims then
in suit, amounting, with the interest computed thereon, to
$2,829.81, not finally reduced to money by Russell, tll October,
1830, upwards of three years after the assignment. Making
due allowance for the state of the currency in Kentucky at that
time, the worst effects of which seem to have been then passing
away, and which must be supposed to have affected somewhat
the value of the claims he received, as well as of the property
he conveyed, we cannot avoid the conclusion that this consideration was grossly inadequate; and therefore we must take
along with us, in our investigations, the fact that there was no
real proportion betxeen the alleged price and the value of the
property said to have been sold. We have not adverted particularly to the opinions of witnesses respecting the value of the
property, because they have not great weight with the court,
compared with the facts above indicated; but there is. a general
concurrence of opinion that the value of the farm largely exceeded the alleged price.
It appears that Russell had intrusted the care of this farm to
an agent named Wing, who had contracted debts for which
Russell had been sued, on coming to Louisville from Alabama,
where he resided. He was a stranger, without friends or resources there, except this farm, and in immediate and pressing
want of about J2,000 in cash. Southard, though not proved to
have been a lender of money at usurious rates of interest, is
shown to have been possessed of active capital, and not engaged
in any business except its management.
Russell certainly
attempted to sell the farm. Colonel Woolley testifies,-" Russell

SUPREME COURT.

150

Russell v. SQuthard ct al.

was anxious to sell; indeed he was importunate that I should
purchase." And a letter is produced by the defendant, D. R.
Southard, written to James Southard, by Wing, containing a
proposal for a sale. The letter is as follows: " Sunday, Noon.
it Sir: Having'had some conversation in relation to Col. Russell's plantation, I will take the liberty of submitting for your
consideration, 1st, how much will you give for the place, crops,
stock, utensils, and implements, or how much without the same,
to be paid as follows: in one sixth cash in hand, the balance in
one, two, three, four, and five equal annual instalments, which
may be extinguished at any time with whiskey, pork, bacon,
flour, hemp, bale rope, cotton bagging, at the New Orleans
prices current, deducting therefrom freight accustomar7 . Mules
and fine horses will now be taken at appraised valuation.
"Respectfully, yours,
Mr.

J.

W. WING.

SOUTHARM.

"N. B. Please leave an answer for me at Allan's, say this
J.-W. W.."
Yours, &c.,
evening.
was
spoken
of between
any
price
not
appear
that
It does
Russell and Colonel Woolley, who peremptorily refused to purchase; nor is any sum of money mentioned in this lettpr of
Wing; but, bearing in mind Riissell's necessity to have $2,000
in cash, the offer to take one sixth cash, and the balance in one,
two, three, four, and five annual instalments, indicates that Russell theh expected about $12,000 for the property, and had that
sum in view as the price, when these terms were proposed,.
This. offer to sell differs so widely from the terms of the written
memorandum, that it certainly does not aid in showing that the
actual transaction was .a sale. Peter Wood testifies that he
heard a conversation between James Southard and Colonel Russell, about the transfer of the farm from Russell to Southard, in
which Mr. Soutiamrd proposed to. advance money to Russell
upon the farm; that Russel told Southard about what he had
paid for the farm, $13,000 or $14,000, and that he should consider it a sacrifice at $10,000; but no proposal was made to
give ox take, any price for. the farm. That some time after,
Southard told him he had advanced Russell between $4,000
and $5,000 on the place, but that, in case he owned the place,
it would cost him $10,000. The general character of this witness for truth and veracity is attacked by the defendants, and
supported by the plaintifl Hi; credibility finds support in the
consistency of his statements with the plominent facts proved
in the case. This. is all the proof touching the negotiations
which led to the contract; but there is some evidence bearing

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.
Russell v.

151

Southard et al.

directly on the real understanding of the parxties. Doctor Johnston was the subscribing witness to the written memorandum.
He testifies that "James Southard and Gilbert C. Russell, I
think on the same day, presented the agreement, and asked me
to witness the same, which I did. My understanding of the
contract was both from Southard and Russell, and my distinct
impression is, that Russell was to pay the money in four months,
and take back the farm." The intelligence and accuracy, as
well as the fairness of this witness, are not controverted;
and if he is believed, the transaction was a loan of money,
upon the security of his farm. It is the opinion of the court
that such was the real transaction. The amount and nature of
what was advanced, compared with the value of the farm, the
testimony of Wood as to the offer of Southard to make an advance of money on the farm, and his subsequent declaration
that he had done.so, and the information given by both parties
to Doctor Johnston, that Russell was to pay the money at the end
of four months, present a case of a loan on security, and are not
overcome by the answer of Southard and the written memorandum.
It is true, Daniel R. Southard, answering, as he declares, from
personal knowledge, sets out, with great minuteness, a case of
an absolute and unconditional sale; the written contract by his
brother to reconvey being, as he says, a mere gratuity conferred
on Russell the next day, or the next but one, after this absolute
sale and conveyance had been fully completed. But this account of the transaction is so completely overthrown by the
proofs, that it was properly abandoned by the defendants' counsel, as not maintainable. We entertain grave doubts whether,
after relying on an absolute sale in his answer, it is open to him
to set up in defence a conditional sale; but it cannot be doubted,
that the least effect justly attributable to such a departure from
the facts, is to deprive his answer of all weight, as evidence, on
this part of the case.
In respect to the written memorandum, it was clearly intended
to manifest a conditional sale. Very uncommon pains are
taken to do this. Indeed, so much anxiety is manifested on this
point, as to make it apparent that the draftsman considered he
had a somewhat difficult task to perform. But it is not to be
forgotten, that the same language which truly describes a real
sale, may also be employed to cut off the right of redemption,
in case of a loan on security; that it is the duty of the court to
watch vigilantly these exercises of skill, lest they should be
effectual to accomplish what equity forbids; and that, in doubtful cases, the court leans to the conclusion that the reality was
a mortgage, and not a sale. Conway v. Alexander, 7 Cranch, 218;

152

SUPREME COURT.
Russell v. Southard ot al.

Flagg v. Mann, 2 Sumner, 533; Secrest v. Turner, 2 J. J.
Marsh. 471; Edrington v. Harper, 3 J. J.Marsh. 354; Crane v.
Bonnell, 1 Green, Ch.R. 264; Robertson v. Campbell, 2 Call,
421 ; Poindexter v. McCannon, 1 Dev. Eq. Cas. 373.
It is true, Russell must have given his assent to this form of
the memorandum; but the distress for money under which he
hen was, places him in the same condition as other borrowers,
.in numerous cases reported in the books, who have submitted to
the dictation of the lender under the pressure of their wants;
and a court of equity does not consider a consent, thus obtained,
to be sufficient to fix the rights of the parties. "Necessitous
men," says the Lord Chancellor, in Vernon v. Bethell, 2 Eden,
113, "are not, truly speaking, free men; but, to answer a present
emergency, will'submit to any terms that the crafty may impose
upon them."
The memorandum does not contain any promise by Russell
to repay the money, and no personal security was taken; but it
is settled that this circumstance does not make the conveyance
less effectual as a mortgage. Floyer v. Lavington, 1 P. Wins.
268; Lawley v. Hooper, 3 Atk. 278; Scott v. Fields, 7 Watts
360; Flagg v. lann, 2 Sumner, 533; Ancaster v. Mayer, 1 Bro.
C. C. 464. And consequently it is not only entirely consistent
with the conclusion that a mortgage was intended, but in a case
where it was the design of one of the parties to clothe the transaction with the forms of- a sale, in order to cut off the right of
redemption, it is not to be expected that the party would, by
taking personal security, effectually defeat his own attempt to
avoid the appearance of a loan.
It has been made a question, indeed, whether the absence of
the personal liability of the grantor to repay the money, be a
conclusive test to determine whether fhl. conveyance was a mortgage. In Brown v. Dlewey, 1 Sandf. Ch.R. 57, the cases are
reviewed and the result arrived at, that it is not conclusive. It
has also been maintained that the proviso, or condition, if not
restrained by words showing that the grantor had an option to
pay or not, might constitute the grantee a creditor. Ancaster v.
Mayer, 1 Bro. C. C. 464; 2 Greenl. Cruise, 82 n, 3. But we do
not think it necessary to determine either of these questions;
because we are of opinion that in this case there is sufficient
evidence that the relation of debtor and creditor was actually
created, and that the written memorandum scertains the amount
of the debt, though it contains no promise t6 pay it. In such a
case it is settled, that an action of assumpsit will lie. Tilsofi v.
Warwick Gas-Light Co. 4 B. & C. 958; Yates v. Aston, 4
Ad. & El. N. S. 182; Burnett v. Lynch, 5 B. & C. 589; Elder v.
Rouse, 1"5 Wtnd, 218.

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

153

Russell v. Southard et al.

Some reliance was placed on the facts, that in August, 1830,
the plaintiff wrote a letter to his wife requesting her to release
her dower, and that, in October, 1830, Russell surrendered. the
written memorandum, under circumstances which will be presently stated. It is urged that these acts show he understood
the original transaction was not a mortgage. But the utmost
effect justly attributable to these acts is, that Russell thought he
then had no further claim to the property, and this belief may as
well have arisen from the terms of the memorandum, as from his
knowledge that a sale was intended. In our judgment, however,
these acts, taken in connection with other facts proved, do not
tend to support the defendants' case. Russell, had, by his written contract to procure the release of his wife's dower, subjected
himself to pay liquidated damages to the extent of tfree thousand dollars; and he might desire to escape from this liability
by having his wife release her right, even if he then believed
he had a right to redeem and expected to redeem; for, in that
event, such release could do neither him nor his wife any harm.
But, on the other hand, if he then thought he had no such right,
it would be a balancing of disadvantages to have such a release
made, and the question would be, whether the right of dower
was more important than the liability to damages. And, as to
the surrender of the written memorandum in October following,
it appears, from the testimony of Colonel Woolley, that Russell,
even after this surrender, thought he had a just right of redemption, though he undoubtedly believed that it was greatly embarrassed, if not lost, by his failure to pay on the stipulated day and
by his relinquishment of the written memorandum.
The conclusion at which we have arrived on this part of the
case is, that the transaction was, in substance, a loan of money
upon the security of the farm, and being so, a court of equity
is bound to look through the forms in which the contrivance of
the lender has enveloped it, and declare the conveyance of the
land to be a mortgage.
Being of opinion that this was in its origin a mortgage, the
next inquiry is, whether the right of redemption has been extinguished. In October, 1830, Russell was temporarily in
Louisville, and, while there, called oni Southard, and informed
him there was a mistake of one hundred dollars in the computation of the amount due on the claims assigned to him.. Southard insisted it was the mistake of W. Pope, who, ie, said, was
Russell's agent, and that he, Southard, was not liable to make
it good. He also set up a claim that he had a right to redeem,
or, as D. R. Southard says, repurchase the farm. This, also,
Southard denied. It does not appear, from any proofs, what
further negotiations if any took place between the parties" but

154

SUPREME
Russell v.

COURT.

Southard et al.

the result was, that, on the payment by Southard of one hundred dollars, Russell wrote and signed the following receipt on
the back of the written memorandum, which he surrendered to
Southard:
1"Received, 6th Oct., 1830, of James Southard, by the hand
of Daniel Southard, one hundred dollars, which makes the two
debts of Brown and Johnston, with the $2,000, amount to the
sum of $4,929.81; and nothing but the act of God shall prevent
the relinquishment of dower of Mrs. Russell being deposited in
the Clerk's office by the 1st of January next. This is in full of
all demands upon J. Southard.
[Seal.]
GILBERT C. RussELL."
(Signed)
A mortgagee in possession may take a release of the equity
of redemption. Hicks v. Cook, 4 Dow, P. C. 6; Hicks v. Hicks
et al. 2 Gill & Johns. 85. But such a transaction is to be scrutinized, to see whether any undue advantage has been taken of
the mortgagor. Especially is this necessary when the mortgagee,
in the inception and throughout the whole conduct of the business, has shown himself ready and skilful to take advantage of
the necessities of the borrower. Strong language is usedin some
of the cases on this subject. It was declared by Lord Redesdale,
in Webb v. Rorke, 2 Sch. & Lef. 673, that " courts view transactions of that sort between mortgagor and mortgagee with con"siderable jealousy, and will set aside sales of the equity of redemption, where, by the influence of his incumbrance, the mortgagee has purch.sed for less than others would have given."
And Chancellor Kent, in Holdridge v. Gillespie, 2 Johns. Ch. R.
34, says, "the fairness and the value must distinctly appear."
Wrixon v. Colter, 1 Ridg. 295; St. John v. Turner, 2 Vern. 418.
But strong expressions, used with reference to the particular
facts under consideratibn, however often repeated by subsequent
writers, cdnnot safely be taken as fixing an abstract rule. We
think that, inasmuch as the mortgagee in possession may exercise an undue influence over the mortgagor, especially, if the
latter be in needy circumstances, the purchase by the former of
the equity of redemption, is to be carefully scrutinized, when
fraud is charged; and that only constructive fraud, or an unconscientious advantage which ought not to be retained, need be
shown, to avoid such a purchase. But we are unwilling to lay
down a rule which would be likely to prevent-any prudent mortgagee in possession, however fair his intentions nlay be, from
purchasing the property, by making the validity of the purchase
depend on his ability afterwards to show that he paid for the
property, all that any one would have been willing to give.

DECEMB-ER TERM, 1851.
Russell v.

155

Southard et al.

We do not deem it for the benefit of mortgagors that such a
rule should exist.
In this case it is unnecessary to rely on such a rule. For by
his own showing, in his answer, it is clear that Daniel R. Southard, as the agent of his brother, either paid no consideration
whatever for the extinguishment of the equity, or at the utmost
only one hundred dollars. We think nothing was paid for it;
and that the surrender of this right, claimed by Russell and denied by Southard, was insisted on as a condition for the correction of an actual mistake, which Southard was justly obliged to
correct, without any condition: and we do not hesitate to declare, that a release of this equity, obtained by the mortgagee in
possession, under a denial by him of the existence of the right
to redeem, for no consideration at all, or as a condition for the
correction of a mistake which in equity he was bound to correct,
the written defeasance having been purposely so prepared as
apparently to cut off the right of redemption prior to the time
when the equity was released, cannot stared in a court of equity.
Indeed, if it were not for Russell's subsequent acquiescence,
of which we shall speak hereafter, the question would not admit
of a moment's doubt. Though this acquiescence is not without
effect upon the complainant's rights, as will presently be seen,
yet we do not think, that under the special circumstances, it
ought to operate as a bar, to prevent redemption. The absence
of all valiable consideration for the surrender of the equity, and
the circumstances of distress under which it was made, and
which, so far as appears, continued to exist down to the filing
of the bill, coupled with the conviction, which we think Russell
mistakenly entertained, that his rights were probably destroyed,
must prevent us from allowing the lapse of-time to be a positive
bar.
The inquiry then arises, on what terms is the redemption to
be decreed.
An account of the rents and profits is ordinarily an incident
to a decree' for redemption against a mortgagee in possession.
But it is not an inseparable incident., This right to an account
may be extinguished by a release, or an accord and satisfaction,
or it may be barred by such neglect of the mortgagor to assert
his claim, as renders it unfair for him to- insist on an account
extending over the whole period of possession, and unjust towards the mortgagee to order such an account. A mortgagee
in possession is deemed by a court of equity a trustee; biit there
is no other than a constructive trust, raised by implication, for
the purpose of a remedy, to 15revent injustice; Kane v. Bloodgood, 7 Johns. Ch .R. 111 ; and it would be contrary to the fundamental principles of equity, to imply a trust, the execution of

156

SUPREME COURT.
Russell v.

Southard et al.

which might work injustice. And accordingly it will be found,
that in such cases, courts of equity have refused to order accounts
against quasi trustees.
Thus, in Downer v. Fortescue, 3 Atk. 130, Lord Rardwicke,
speaking of the case of an heir in possession under a legal title,
which he is obliged by a decree to surrender to one having an equitable title, says, the court will order an account from the time the
title accrued, unless upon special circumstances ; as "when there
hath been any default, or laches, in the plaintiff, in not asserting his
title sooner, but he has lain by, there the court has often thought
fit to restrain it to the filing of the bill." So in Pettiward v.
Prescott, 7 Yes. 541, a case of constructive trust, Sir William
Grant restrained the account of the rents and profits to the time
of filing the bill, on account of the lapse of nearly tventy years;
and sinilar cases may be found referred to in Drummond v. The
Duke-of 'St. Albans, 5 Ves. 433, and note .3 to page 339; and
in Roosevelt v. Post, 1 Ed. Ch. R. 579. Indeed in Acherly v.
Roe, 5 Yes. 565, where there was a trust created of a term,
for the purpose of raising a sum of money, and the cestui
que trust had been long in possession without objection, Lord
Chancellor Loughborough refused even to carry the account back
to the filing of the bill, upon the special circumstances of that
case. This court, in Green v. Biddle, 8 Wheat. 78, gave its sanction to the rule as laid down by Lord Hardwicke, and declared
it to be fully supported by the authorities.
This bill
the lapse
of nineteen years and eight
months
fromwas
the filed
timeafter
the loan
became
payable. James Southard, the original mortgagee, had then becn dead many years.
More than sixteen years had elapsed since the defeasance was
surrendered; and though we axe satisfied Russell was under
great embarrassments, and though we are of opinion he himself
believed his right to redeem was probably extinguished by the
terms of the defeasance, and its surrender, yet his neglect to look
into and assert his rights, must not be allowed to subject the
defendants to the risk of injustice. The defendants, and James
Southard, have treated the. property as their own, and have improved its condition. There is no suggestion of waste in the
bill. The value of the land has greatly appreciated, from the
growth of the neighboring city; and though we think James
Southard designed to take an unconscientious advantage of Russell, and that the defendant, D. R. Southard, obtained the surrender of the defeasance, under such circumstances as rendered
it constructively'fraudulent, yet neither of them appears to have
concealed any facts from Russell, or to have done any thing to prevent him from exhibiting his real case to counsel. To such a case,
thelanguage of the Vice-Chancellor, in Bowes v. East London

DECEMBER TERM,

18.1.

157

Russell v. Southard et al.

W. W. Co. 3 Mad. 384, exactly applies. "The plaintiff ought
to have looked into his rights; and as by his negligence to obtain information concerning them and to assert them, the lessees
may have been led to expenditure on the premises, the benefits
of which they will lose, I shall not direct an account beyond the
filing of the bill." To this extent his acquiescence must be taken
to have concluded his right, and we shall direct that the account
of the interest due upon the money loaned, and of the rents and
profits of the farm, commence at the date of the filing of the
bill.
We can perceive no ground for charging Southard with the
money received from the insurance company, on account of the
destruction of the house. He was in possession, claiming to be
the absolute owner of the farm and its appurtenances. He obtained the policy to cover his interest, and paid the premium.
If there were any equities against him arising out of the receipt
of this money, they would be in favor of the underwriters, ind
not of the mortgagor. Carpenter v. Providence Washington
Ins. Co. 16 Pet. 501.
It remains only to advert to the cases of the defendants, who
claim as purchasers under D. R. Southard. *The questions
arising therein were not argued by counsel, and upon looking
into that part of the record, we find some of them not capable
of being fully settled upon the facts therein disclosed.
It was probably understood by counsel, that these questions
would remain for consideration, in the dourt below,- if the -case
should be remanded.
Samuel D. Tompkins claims to have been a purchaser for
valuable consideration of thirty acres of this land, and to have
received a deed of conveyance thereof, and paid a part of the
consideration-money without notice of Russell's title, and before
the institution of this suit. He also claims to have made permanent and valuable improvements on the land purchased by
him, but whether before or since the institution of this suit does
not appear. 'William H. Pope, as the executor and trustee of
his father, William Pope, claims that his father, in his lifetime,
purchased at a sale on four executions against Southard another
part of these lands, and that Southard omitted to redeem the
land by paying what was due on three of the executions, and a
suit is shown by the record to be pending in the Court of Appeals of Kentucky, wherein Russell's right to -redeem is in contestation.
Matilda Burks, the widow of James Burks, deeased, and
John Burks, one of the sons of James, and William L. Thompson, as guardian of other children of James, and James Guthrie,
assignee of J. R. Trunstall, the husband of a daughter of James.

SUPREME COURT.
Russell v. Southard et al.

claim a lien on these lands by virtue of a mortgage thereof executed by Daniel 1. Southard, and Southard insists that Guthrie
has been paid; it is not ascertained whether the debts intended
to be secured on these lands, are or are not, flly secured upon
other lands of Daniel R. Southard, which are embraced in the
same mortgage. In this posture of the cause, it is not practicable
for the court to pass finally upon the rights of these parties; and
the cause will therefore be remanded, without deciding upon the
existence or extent of the right of either of them as a purchaser.
A decree is to be entered, reversing the decree of the court below, with costs, declaring that the conveyance from Russell, the
complainant, to James Southard, was a mortgage, and that Russell is entitled to redeem the same, and remanding the cause to
the Circuit Court, with directions to proceel therein in conformity with the opinion of this court and as the principles of
equity shall require.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District
of Kentucky, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, it is the opinion of this court that the conveyance by
Gilbert C. Russell, the complainant, to James Southard, and
dated the 24th day of September, 1827, as set out in the transcript of the record, was a mortgage, and that said Russell is entitled to redeem the same. Wherefore, it is now here ordered,
adjudged and decreed by this court, that the decree of the said
Circuit Court in this cause be, and the spame is hereby, reversed,
with costs, and that this cause be, and the same is hereby, remanded to the said Circuit Court for further proceedings to be
had therein, in conformity to the opinion of this court and as to
law and justice may appertain.
After the opinion of the court was pronounced, a motion was
made on behalf of the appellees for a rehearing, and to remand
the cause to the Circuit Court for further preparation and proof,
,upon the ground that new and material evidence had been discovered since the Pase was heard and -decided in that court.
Sundry affidavits were filed, showing the nature of the evidence which was -said to have been discovered.
The opinion of the court upon this motion was delivered by
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY.
'The decree of the Circuit Court, in this case, was reversed
during the present term, and a decree entered in favor of the ap-

DECEM1BER

TERM,

1851.

Ives v. TheMerchants Bank of Boston.

pellant. A motion is now made ili behalf of Daniel R. Southard,
one of the appellees, to set aside the decree in this court, and to
remand the case to the Circuit Court for further preparation and
proof, upon the ground that new and material evidencehas
been discbvered slaee the case was heard and decided in that court.
In support of this motion affidavits have been filed stating the
evidence newly discovered, and that it was unknown. to him
when the case was heard in the court below.
It is very clear that affidavits of newly-discovered testimony
cannot be received for such a purpose. This court must affirm
or reverse upon the case as it appears in the record.' We cannot
look out of it, for testimony to influence the judgment of this
court sitting, as an appellate tribunal. And, according to the
practice of the court of chancery from its earliest history to the
present time, no paper not before the Court below can be read"
on the hearing of an appeal. Eden v. Earl Bute, 1 Bro. Par.
Cas. 465; 3 Bro. Par. Cas. 546; Studwell v. Palmer, 5 Paige,
166.
'Indeed, if the established chancery practice had been otherwise, the act of Congress of March 3d, 1803, expressly prohibits
the introduction of new evidence, in this court, on the hearing
of an appeal from a circuit court, except in admiralty and prize
causes.
The motion is therefore overruled.

MOSES B. IVES, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. THE MERCHANTS BANK
or BOSTON.
The surety for the appellants from a decree in admiralty gave bond to pay all costs
and damaages which might, be adjudged by this court.
This court having affirmed the decree of the Circuit Court with costs and six per cent.
damages, judgment was entered upon the receipt of the mandate by the Circuit
Court, for the amount of the original judgment together with the amount of costs
and damages calculated up to that day; and execution was awarded.
Under this execution, the vessel, which had been attached under the libel, was sold for
less than this aggregate amount.
The surety is not entitled to have a relative proportion of the proceeds of sale applied
to the reduction of hi; bond, but is responsible upon it to the entire amount.
By the 26th section of the Judiciary Act, the courts have power to assess damages
upon bonds, &e., and to render judgment for so much as is due according to equity,
in eases of default or confession or demurrer. This sectioir does not apply to a case
heard on agreed facts.
But then when the case heard on agreed facts was the case of an appeal-bond, it was
proper for the court to give judgment for the penalty of the bond (being less than
the judgment under the mandate) and allow interest from the date of the institution
of the suit, although the amount to be paid in this way would exceed the penalty
of the bond.

