DECEMBER TERM,

1851.

79

Harris v. Runnels.

wrong in this transaction, because the owners of land in New
Madrid were not compelled to accept the provisions of the'act;
if they did so, it was a voluntary act on their part, and their
assent should be evidenced by some affirmative act done by
them.
There is, however, in this case, no ground for implication.
All presumption of assent is utterly excluded -by the evidence
of Delisle himself, who states that he was wholly ignorant of
the existence of the act of Congress on that subject until the
year 1842. He could not be divested of his land in New
Madrid until he assented to the exchange, and he could give no
assent until he was informed of the act of Congress making
provision for those whose land had been injured. The title,
then, to the land in New ladrid remained in Delisle up to the
year 1842, when he assented to what had been done by Langham and Hempstead in his name; and, as Congress only
intended to grant other land on condition that the title to the
land injured should revert 'to, and vest in the government, no
title could pass to Delisle until 1842, prior to which time the
State of Missouri had acqluired title to the land in controversy.
It is proper to remark that, on the last ground of defence, we
have adopted the views, in part, expressed by one of the judges
of the Supreme Court of Missouri, whose opinion is found in
the record.
Our conclusion is that, on both grounds of defence, the State
courts expounded the law applicable to the facts correctly, and
that therefore the judgment should be affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the Supreme Court of the State of Missouri, and
was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now
here ordered and adjudged by this court, that the judgment of
the said Supreme Court in this cause be, and the same is,
hereby affirmed, with costs.

JoHN L. IARRIS,

SURVIVING
IRAM

PARTNER OF ROWAN AND HARRIS, V.

G.

RUNNELS.

Where a defendant, when sued upon a note, set up, as a defence, that the note was
given for an illegal consideration, the whole statute must be examined in order
to di5cov,. r whether or not the legislature intended to prevent coturts of justice

from enftrcing contracts relating to the act prohibited.

80

SUPREME COURT.
Harris v. Runnels.

Where a statute prohibits an act or annexes a penalty to its commission, it is true
that the act is made unlawful, but it does not follow that the unlawfulness of the act
was meant by the legislature to avoid a contract made in c'ntravcntion of it.
Where a statute is silent, and contains nothing from which the contrary can properly
be inferred, a contract in contravention of it is void. But the whole statute must be
examined in order to decide whether or not it does contain any thing "fi'om which
the contrary can be properly inferred."
Thus, where a statute of Mississippi declared that slaves should not be brought into
the State without a previous certificate signed by two freeholders, with a certificate
of the clerk of the -county from which they came, certifying that the signers were
respectable freeholders; and slaves were brought in without such certificate and
sold, the contract is not void, but the purchaser must pay his note given for the
purchase-money.
Other parts of the statute indicate that the legislature did not intend to declare the
contract void; as, for example, a part in which a fine is imposed upon the buyer
and also upon the seller.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the, United States for the Southern District of Mississippi.
The action was originally brought by Rowan & Harris upon
the following note. Rowan having died during the suit, it was
prosecuted by Harris, the surviving partner. It will -be -perceived that the action was by the indorsees against the indorser.
Dollars 8,671.331.
On or before the first day of March, eighteen hundred and
forty, I promise to pay H. G. Runnels, or order, eighty-six hundred and seventy-one 331 dollars, negotiable and payable at the
Planters' Bank, Natchez, Miss., value received, this 7th December, 1837.
G. W.. An~s.
(Indorsed.)
For value received, I transfer and assign over to Rowan &
Harris the within note of $8,671. 331; said note is secured by
mortgage on lands, pf record in Bolivar county, Miss., and I vest
in said Rowan & Harris the right to control said mortgage.
Given under my hand this 22d July, 1838.

H. G. RUNNELs.

Rowan & Harris.
Before stating the pleas of thp defendant, it is proper to refer
to a statute of Mississippi, passed in 1852. (Howard & Hutch.
Digest, 155.)
Sec. 1. Describes who are slaves ; such as are brought in pursuant to law, &c.
Sec. 2. Slaves may be brought in, except convicts.
See. 3. No person shall bring in or hold convicts.

DECEMBER TERM,

1851.

Harris v. Runnels.

See. 4. Slaves not to be brought in without a previous certificate, signed by two respectable freeholders in the county and
State from which the slaves were brought, and signed and acicnowledged before the clerk of scid county, and certified by the
clerk that the persons whose signatures were affixed thereto were
respectable freeholders of the county and neighborhood where
they resided, containing a particular description of the stature
and complexion of such slaves, together with the names, ages,
and sex of the same; and furthermore, that the slaves therein
mentioned and described had not been guilty or convicted of
murder, burglary, or arson, or felony, within the knowledge or belief of such freeholders.
Sec. 5. The seller shall register the certificate in the Orphans'
Court, and swear that he believes it to be true.
See. 6. Seller or purchaser, contrary to this act, shall pay one
hundred dollars for every slave so sold or purchased.
To the declaration of the plaintiff, Runnels plead three pleas,
viz., the general issue of non assumpsit and two special pleas.
The conclusion of one of these pleas will show the nature of
both. "And the defendant avers, that the said plaintiffs had not,
previously to the importation of the slaves, sold as aforesaid to the
said defendant, and had not previously to, nor at the time when
the said slaves were sold to this defendant, obtained a certificate
signed by two respectable freeholders in the county of the State
of Virginia, from which said slaves were brought, and signed or
acknowledged before the clerk of said county, in the State of
Virginia, and certified by said clerk, that the persons whose signatures were affixed thereto were respectable freeholders of the
county and neighborhood where they resided, containing a particular description of the stature and complexion of such slaves,
together with the names, ages, and sex of the same; and furthermore, that the slaves therein mentioned and described had
not been guilty or convicted of murder, burglary, or arson, or
felony, within the knowledge or belief of such freeholders, in
the said State of Virginia; and so this defendant says, that the
sale of said slaves to him was illegal and void, and the transfer
and indorsement made by him of the note in the declaration was
also illegal and void, and this he is ready to verify; wherefore, &c."
The plaintiff joined issue upon the first plea, and demurred to
the two special pleas. Upon the trial, the court below overruled the demurrers, and gave judgment for the defendant.
WVhereupon, the plaintiff brought the case up to this court by
writ of error.
It was argued by 1r. Nelson, for the plaintiff in error, and -by
Mr. Howard for the defendant.

SUPREME

COURT.

Harris v. Runnels.

Mr. Nelson contended that the Statute of Mississippi was a
mere police regulation, the non-observance 6f which did not
avoid the contract, and cited the following cases: Faikney v.
Reynous, 4 Burr. 2069; Petrie v. Hannay, 3 Term. Rep. 418;
Farmer v. Russell and another, 1 Bos. & Pul. 296; Simpson
v. Bloss, 7 Taunt 246; Johnson and others v. Hudson, 11
East, 180; Armstrong v. Toler, 11 *Wheat. 259; Graves v.
Slaughter, 15 Pet. R. 449; and Story's Confl. of Laws, pp.
205- 209. The act of Mississippi of the 18th June, 1822, How.
& Hutch. Digest, 156; Hutch. Mississippi Code, 513.
Mr. Howard contended, that contracts contrary to laws or public policy are void and wM1 not be enforced.
Craig v. State of Missouri, 4 Pet. 426; Hunt v. Knickerbacker, 5 Johns. 327 ; Sharp v. Teese, 4 Halst. 352 ; Mlarchant v.
Evans, 8 Taunt. 142; Stephens v.Robinson, 2 Cromp. & Jer. 209;
Spurgeen v. MeElwain, 6 Ohio, 442; Belding v. Pitkin, 2 Caines,
147; Falis v. Mayberry, 2 Gall. 560; Griswold v. Waddington,
15 Johns. 37; 16 Tb. 438.
They are void whether so declared by the statute or not. It
is sufficient that they are foibidden, or contrary to law or public
policy. Yeates v. Williams, 5 Pike, 684; Eberman v. Reitzel, 1
Watts & Serg. 181.
Where a thing is not absolutely prohibited, but permitted to
be done in a particular manner, and prohibited in any other, contracts are not valid made in violation of the prescribed method.
This was settled in the celebrated case of Law v. Hodson,
11 East, 300, which was an action to, recover the price of brick
which did not conform to the, size prescribed by the statute.
Like the Missisippi law of 1822, it did not declare contracts
void, but contained a prohibition under penalty. To the same
effect is Little v. Poole, 9 Barn. & Cress. 192; Forster v. Taylor, 5 Barn. & Adol. 887; Tyson v. Thomas, 1 MeCl. &
Young, 119; Langton v. Hughes, 1 Maule & Selwyn, 593;
Bank U. S. v. Owens, 2 Peters, 537.
It was decided in Massachusetts, that c4no action lies on a
promissory note, the consideration whereof was the sale of shingles, not of the size prescribed by the statute." Wheeler v. Russell, 17 Mass. 258.
No action can be maintaihed for leather not stamped as required by law; Elkins v. Parkhurst, 17 Vermont, 105; DeBegnis
v. Armistead, 10 Bing. 107; Cope v. Rowland, 2 Meeson &
Welsb. 149. The last case decides, that business by a broker
without license is illegal, and that he cannot recover for his services.

DECEMBER TERM., 1851.

83

Harris v. Runnels.

Mr. Justice WAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
It is said that the note sued upon in this case, was given for
an illegal consideration.
The illegality alleged is, that the plaintiff brought slaves into
the State of M\ississippi as merchandise, in contravention of the
statute regulating the importation of them, and sold them to the
defendant, for which the note was given in payment. It is admitted by the plaintiff's demurrer to the defendant's special plea,
that they were so brought and sold. The court overruled the denurrer and gave judgment for the defendant. The cause is before
this court upon a writ of error sued out by the plaintiff. The law
making contracts, in contravention of statutes, irrecoverable
first stated and afterwards applied to this case.
suit, will
by There
is nobedoubt
that assumpsit cannot be sustained upon a
contract which has not a sufficient consideration. It must not be
illegal, of an immoral tendency, or contrary to sound policy.
The common law maxims are ex turpi causd, n n orilur actioexv dolo malo non oritur actio. It prohibits every thing which is
unjust or contrabonos mores. The object of all law is to repress
vice and to promote the general welfare of society; and it does
not give its assistance to a person to enforce a demand, originating in his breach or violation of its principles and enactments.
Contracts in violation of statutes are void; and they are so
whether the consideration to -be performed or the act to be done
be a violation of the statute.
A statute may either expressly prohibit or enjoin an act, or it
may impliedly prohibit or enjoin it, by affixing a penalty to the
performance or omission thereof. It makes no difference whether the prohibition be expressed or implied. In either case,
a contract in violation of its provisions is void. The rule is certain and plain. The practice under it has been otherwise. The
decisions in the English courts have been fluctuating and counteracting. Those in the courts of our States have followed
them without much discrimination. No one canread any one of
the recent elementary treatises upon contracts without noticing
the differences of opinion among judges as to the operation of
the rule. Showing, however, as they do, the history of these
differences, they may lead to more conformity of judicial opinion
hereafter in this respect.
The character of these differences will be seen by noticing one
of them. Others might easily be made.
Within a few years we were told, in the English Reports, and
seemingly to us with a good reason, that the rule which avoids
a contract made in contravention of a statute, did not apply to
statutes made for the protection of the revenue only. That the
non-observance of excise regulations will not avoid a contract.

84

SUPREME COURT.
Harris v. Runnels.

in respect of their subject-matter, if it be not accompanied with
fraud, although a penalty attaches. Johnson v. Hudson, 11
East, 180; Brown v. Duncan, 10 Barn. & Cress. 98; Hodgson
v. Temple, 5 Taunt. 181. And that it was always to be applied, when the statute was made for the protection of the public from moral evils, or from those which we know from experience that society must be guarded from by preventive legislation. Such was received as the law by the courts in England
and in our States, and cases were ruled in both accordingly; but
afterwards, with only a few years intervening, Baron Parke, a
distinguished judge, truly said, in Cope v. Rowland, (2 Cromp.
Mee. & Ros. 157,) "Notwithstanding some dicta apparentlyto the
contrary, if the contract be rendered illegal, it can make no difference, in point of law, whether the statute which has made
it so has in view the protection of the revenue or any other object." Such we believe to be now the rule in England, but with
many exceptions, made upon distinctions very difficult to be
understood consistently with the rule; so much so, that we
have concluded, before the rule can be applied in any case of a
statute proiibiting or enjoining things to be done, with a prohibition ar J a penalty, or a penalty only for doing a thing which
it forbids, that the statute must be examined as a whole, to find
out whether or not the makers of it meant that a contract in
contravention of it should be void, or that it was not to be so.
In other words, whatever may be the structure of the statute in
respect to prohibition and penalty, or penalty alone, that it is not
to be taken for granted that the legislature meant that contracts
in contravention of it were to be void, in the sense that they were
not to be enforced in a court of justice. In this way the principle
of the rule is admitted, without at all lessening its force, though
its absolute and unconditional application to every case is denied.
It is true that a statute, containing a prohibition and a penalty,
makes the act which it punishes unlawfil, and the same may be
implied from a penalty without a prohibition; but it does not follow that the unlawfulness of the act was meant by the legislature
to avoid a contract made in contravehtion of it. When the
statute is silent, and contains nothing from which the contrary
can be properly inferred, a contract in contravention of it is void.
It is not necessary, however, that the reverse of that should be
expressed in terms to exempt a contract from the rule. The exemption may be inferred from those rules of interpretation, to
which, from the nature of legislation, all of it is liable when subjected to judicial scrutiny. That legislators do not think the
rule one of universal obligation, or that, upon grounds of public
policy it should always be applied, is very certain. For, in some
statutes it is said in terms that such contracts are void; in

DECEMBER TERMZ

1851.

85

Harris v. Runnels.

others, that they are not so. In one statute, there is no prohibi-.
tion expressed, and only a penalty; in another, there is prohibition and penalty, in some of which, contracts in violation of them
are void or not, according to the subject-matter and object of
the statute; and there are other statutes in which there are penalties and prohibitions, in which contracts made in contravention
of them will not be void, unless one of the parties to them practises a fraud upon the ignorance of the other. It must be obvious, from such diversities of legislation, that statutes forbidding
or enjoining things to be done, with penalties accordingly, should
always be fully examined, before courts should refuse to give
aid to enforce contracts whicl, are said to be in contravention
of them.
We now turn to the case on hand, to apply to it our version
of the rule and the manner of its application.
Thestatute relied up-on by the defendant, to avoid the payment of his note, is that of June, 1822, (Hutch. Dig. 512.) He
relies upon the fourth section, substantially recited in his special
pleas, and says the plaintiff cannot recover upon the note, as it
was given for an illegal consideration, from the plaintiff's having
failed, before he sold the negroes, to- comply with the directions in
the fourth section. The sixth section declares that both the seller
and the buyer of such slaves shall pay one hundred dollars for
every slave so sold or purchased. The two sections, considered
ponjunctively, seem to us to imply that the penalty Qnly, without any other loss to either the seller or the buyer, was to be
inflicted. The subject-matter and the sufficiency of the penalty
relatively to the value of a slave,, to prevent the mischief against
which the legislature meant to guard, imply that the legislature
did not mean that such a contract should not be enforced in a
court of justice. Besides, as the act was meant to prevent convict negroes from being brought into. the State for sale, and
another penalty for that offence is to be inflicted, severer than
that of the sixth section, without a forfeiture of the slave or any
provision for his removal from the State, it cannot have been intended that the disregard of precautionary directions, for the
importation of slaves for sale was to be visited with its penalty,
and the indirect forfeiture by the, seller of the price of them, by
denying to him the aid of courts to enforce a contract of sale for
negroes who were not convicts. This statute must be filterpreted as all other statutes are liable to be. The State's policy
was to exclude all negroes tainted with crime. For aught that
apears in the pleadings, the defendant bargained for the negroes,
kowing that they were brought into the State as he says they
then, there was a violation of the law by his purchase, he
were. It,
stands in par! delicto with the seller, with this difference between
8
VOL.XI1.

SUPREME

COURT.

Harris v. Runnels.

them, that he is now seeking to add to his breach of the law the
injustice of retaining the negroes without paying for them. And
he might do so if the statute was such as it is represented to be
in his pleas. The law will not aid either of two parties who are
in par!delicto in the violation of a statute. Whatever may be
stated in a contract for an illegal purpose, a defendant, against
whom it is sought to be enforced, may, to prevent it, show both
the turpitude of himself and the plaintiff. Lord Mansfield said,
with a very proper sensibility of the injustice of such a plea, and
of the policy which permits it to be insisted upon, " The objec.
tion, that a contract is immoral or illegal as between plaintiff
and defendant, sounds at all times very illin the mouth of a
defendant. It is not for his sake, however, that the objection is
ever allowed, but it is founded on general principles of policy,
which the defendant has the advantage of, contrary to', the real
justice, as between him and the plaintiff" Such is the law, and
the defendant would have the advantage if he had not mistaken
the statute under which it is claimed.
It is a rule, if -effects and consequences shall result from an
interpretation of a statute contrary and in opposition to the
policy which it discloses, or substantially avoiding the infliction.
of a penalty upon the transgressor, that such an interpretation
must be rejected. In this case, the interpretation contended for
in behalf of the defendant does both. One of them has already
been stated. It is, that it vioiild lead to the infliction of a severer penalty for the disregard of the directions for buying slaves
for sale who are not convicts, than the statute imposes upon those
who shall bring convict slaves into the State.
Further, the penalty in the sixth section, upon such as do not
comply with the directions in the fourth, is to be equally inflicted
upon the buyer and the seller.
Make, then, this contract void, by the application of the rule
pari delicto potior canditio est defendentis et possidentis, and the
defendant, in the event of .his conviction for transgressing the
statute, would be substantially released from the penalty as to
all the objects for which punishment is ever inflicted; because,
having the pow~r to retain the negroes, he would pay the fine
from their labor, or would get them for only so much less than
he bargained to give for them. In other words, the seller, if
convicted too, would pay his own and the buyer's fine. Again,
as the rule is not allowed for the benefit of either party to an
illegal contract, but altogether upon grounds of public policy,
we do not think that public policy calls for the application of it
in this case, as the defendant might keep the slaves which he
bought from the plaintiff within the State of Mississippi, contrary to the law which forbade the sale of them.

DECEMBER TERM,

1851.

87

Harris v. Runnels.

Such decided advantages, to one of two who have violated 4
statute by a contract, could not have been meant by the Legis:
lature of Mississippi.
It is gratifying to us, that the conclusion at which we have
is sustained by the subsequent legislation of Missisarrived
.sippi. In
1837, (Hutch. Dig. 535,) an act was passed repealing the act permitting slaves to be brought into the State for
sale. In addition/to the penalty, it is declared in terms that all
contracts in contravention of it shall be void. There could not
be, from statutes in par! miaterid, especially in one repealing
another and substituting new conditions and penalties upon the
same subject-matter of both, a stronger circumstance to show,
that under the first statute in order, contracts in violation of it
were not meant to be irrecoverable by suit. Our judgment
in this case is, that the contract is not void, and that the defendant can take nothing by his pleas.
We are aware, that decisions have been made in the courts of
Mississippi seemingly in conflict with this; but they are only so
in appearance. None of them were made until after the constitu-.
tion of Mississippi of 1817 had been superseded by that of 1832.
We have said, more than once, and now say again, that the clause
in the constitution of 1832, prohibiting the introduction of
slaves into the State as merchandise, was inoperative to prevent
it until the legislature acted upon it. 'We have read all that has
been officially written in opposition to that conclusion without
having our confidence in its correctness at all shaken.
'We shall direct the reversal of the judgment in this case.
Mr. Justice McLEAN and Mr. Justice CURTIS dissented.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record, from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Mississippi, and was argued by counsel.
On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged
by this court, that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in
this cause be, and the same is hereby, reversed, with costs; and
that this cause be, and the same is hereby, remanded to the
said Circuit Court, with directions for further proceedings to be
had therein, in conformity to the opinion of this court.

