DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

437

The United States v. Castant et &l.

the unusual manner, also, in -,rhich the names of Galvez and
Foucher are arranged in the certified copy, it looks much more
like a formula written in a record-book for the direction of clerks
in making out for signature an absolute and perfect grant,
than like a paper intended to convey the title to land. And
moreover there is no evidence that the petitioners are the heirs
of Pierre LeBlanc named in the paper which is claimled to have
been a grant to him; no evidence that he or those claiming
under him ever took possession or exercised any act of ownership over it; and no evidence that any right or title was ever
claimed to it, by Pierre LeBlanc or any one clahiiitng under
him, from the year 1777, when the paper bears date, down to
June 16, 1846, when this -petitionwas filed, being a period of
sixty-nine years.
The decree of the District Court must be reversed, and a
mandate issued directing the petition to be dismissed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record, from the District Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Louisiana, and was argued by counsel. On
consideration whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged and
decreed by this court, that the decree of the said District Court
in this cause be, and the same is hereby, reversed and annulled,
and that this cause be, and the same is hereby, remanded to the
said District Court, with directions to dismiss the petition of
the claimants.

THE

"UNITED STATES, APPELLANTS, V. JEANNETTE CAROLINE
CASTANT, WIDOW IN COMMUNITY OF JACOB BRANDEGEE;* DVd

CEASED, AND NATURAL TUTRIX OF HER MINOR CHILDREN, VrZ.:
ODILE MADELINE, CAMILLUS JOHN, STEPHAINE, MARIE HENRIETTA BRANDEGEE, AND OF CAROLINE CLOTILDE BRANDEGEE,
WIFE OF HENRY LLOYD, BENEFICIARY HEIRS AND LEGAL REPRESENTATIVES OF SAID JACOB BRANDEGEE, DECEASED.

This court again decides, as in 9 How. 127, and 10 How. 609, that by the act of 1824,
a claimant of land in Louisiana must aver and prove his residence in ihat Province
at the.date of the grant, or on or before the 10th of Mareh, 1804.
ALo, that the act was not intended to provide for perfect grants. Over such, the
Distriet Court has no jurisdiction.
.
A decreu of the court was erroneous, authorizing the claimants to enter public land,

37 *

438

SUPREME
The United States v.

COURT.
Castant et al.

upon the ground that the United States had sold wht was covered by the claim,
when there was no evidence that the United States had made any Euch sales.

THIS was a land case arising under the acts of 1824 and
1844, which came up by appeal from the District Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of Louisiana.
,The circumstances of the case are stated in the opinion of the
court.

It was argued by lr. Crittenden (AttorneyGeneral,) for the
United States, and Xr. ou6 for the appellees.
Mr. Justice DANIEL delivered the opinion of the court.
The claim of the appellees in this case was preferred in virtue
of the provisions of the act of Congress of May 26th, 1824, entitled " An act enabling the claimants to lands within the limits
of the State of Missouri, and the Territory of Arkansas, to institute proceedings to try the validity of their claims;" vid. 4
Stat. at Large, 52, which provisions were revived by an act of
Congress of the 17th of June, 1844, and extended to the States
of Louisiana and Arkansas, and to so much of the States of
Mississippi and Alabama as is included in the district of country
south of the 31st degree of north latitude, and between the
Mississippi and Perdido rivers. 5 Stat. at Large, 676.
The original petition, presented in the name of Jacob Brande.
gee, sets forth that in pursuance of an order of Don Manuel
Gayoso de Lemos, Governor-General of Louisiana and West
Florida, Don Carlos Laveau Trudeau the royal Surveyor, did
on the 15th of November, 1798, deliver to Donna Maria Manetta
Laveau Trudeau, a tract of land, containing five hundred superficial arpens, situated and bounded as in the petition described,
and as contained in a survey or figurative plan accompanying
the petition, and as said to have been set forth in a survey alleged to have been previously made by Pintado, Deputy-Surveyor
*ofLouisiana.and West Florida. That afterwards, on or about
the 12th day of November, 1798, the Governor-General Gayoso
'de Lemos, made a regular concession or grant of this land to
Donna Maria Manetta Laveau Trudeau; that on the 31st of
'August, 1821, the said Donna Maria conjointly with her husband,'Josiah E. Kerr, sold and conveyed the land granted as
aforesaiM to Brandegee: and the deed to him is made an exhibit
in this case. The petition further states, (referring to the metes
and bounds of the grant, as described in the survey and evidences of title) that the claim had been presented to the Board
of Land Commissioners, whose decision-had been adverse thereto; that the whole of said tract of land, or the greater part

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

489

The United States v. Castant et al.

thereof, had either been sold by the United States, or confirmed
to actual settlers. The petition then concludes with the prayer,
that the title of the petitioner may be held good, and that he
may be entitled to enter an equal quantity of land in lieu of that
which had been sold or confirmed to others. The petitioner,
Jacob Brandegee, having departed this life after the institution
of the-s proceedings, they were revived in the name of his widow
in community, and of his children and heirs.
There is not exhibited with the petition or in any tp rt of the
proceedings, an original order from De Lemos to Trudeau, di
recting the latter to deliver to Donna Maria Manettb. Trudeau,
the land mentioned, but there is a certificate signed by Carlos
Laveau Trudeau, as Royal Surveyor, stating that he had delivered possession to Donna Maria Manetta Laveau Trudeau, of
the tract of land of five hundred superficial arpens, corresponding with the figurative plan or survey, in which the boundaries
are described with great precision. This certificate is followed
by an instrument adopting and confirming it, signed by Gayoso
De Lemos, styling himself Brigadier of the Royal Armies, Governor-General and Royal Vice-Patron of the Provinces of Louisiana and West Florida; and this instrument, after reciting the
boundaries as contained in the certificate, concludes in the following terms: " And recognizing the same; approving them as
we do hereby approve them, availing ourselves of the faculty
which the King has given us, we grant in his royal name, to the
aforesaid Donna Maria 'IIanetta Laveau Trudeau, the aforesaid
five hundred superficial acres of land; that she may use and dispose of them as her own property, in conformity with the aforesaid acts."
Upon the aforegoing petition, and the documents above referred to, constituting all the evidence in this cause, the District
Court, on the 8th of June, 1849, ordered and decreed, "that the
grant made by the Spanish government to Donna Maria Manetta Laveau Trudeau was a perfect one; 'that therefore, the
plaintiffs are entitled to therelief granted by the act of Congress,
approved on the 17th" of June, 1844, and the act of 1824, to
which it refers; and that it is therefore ordered and decreed, that
the grant is valid against the United States, and that the land
described in the said grant and survey thereof, as part of the
exhibits, containing five hundred superficial arpens, according to
the metes and bounds as described in the said grant and survey,
belongs to the petitioners holding under the original grantee."
The same court then proceeds to declare; "that whereas it
is ascertained that a great part of the land is now held by
titles emanating from the United States, it is further ordered,
adjudged, and decreed, that for all the land within the limits so

440

SUPREME COURT.
The Unitea States v. Castant et al.

held, which has been sold or otherwise disposed of bythe United
States, the. petitioners shall be, and they axe hereby authorized
to enter in any land-office of the United States in the State of
Louisiana, a like quantity of public land elsewhere, in conformity with the provision of the 11th section of the act of Congress, approved on the 26th of May, 1824."
This decision of the district judge is palpably inconsistent with
the repeated adjudications of this court, upon the language and
objects of the act of Congress of 1824, and of the reviving act
of 1844; and is indeed contradictory and inconsistent with
itself, in the different grounds it assumes for its support. Before
proceeding to a more particular examination of the decision of
the District Court, it seems proper to advert to the true position
-of the petitioner, or rather of the grantee, from whom his title
is deduced, as described in the petition, and to inquire whether
that position, as there described,.apart from the question of the
completeness or incompleteness of the grant, be one on which
the jurisdiction of the District Court could attach. Thus it
must be remembered, that in the enumeration in the act of 1824,
of the qualifications requisite for claiming the benefit of that
act, is the residence of the grantee within ,-he province of Louisiana, at the date of the grant, or on or before the 10th day of
March, 1804. This requisite of residence at one of the, periods
prescribed, can in nowise be received as a matter of form. It
is of. the essence of the right to invoke the aid of the act of
Congress,, which.was designed to confer a benefit on -actual occupants or settlers. Such being its character, it should, therefore, in every instance in which that act is appealed to, be both
averred and provedi ._ In the case before us the petition is wholly
silent as to this qualification, and no proof is adduced as to its
existence. For this omission alone, then, to aver a material,
nay, the most material ingredient in the right to invoke the aid
of the act of 1824, the petition presented no case upon which
the jurisdiction of the District Court could attach. This point
has been ruled in the cases of the United States v. Reynes, in
9th Howard, 127, and of the United States v. D'Auterive,
in 10th Howard, 609, and in other cases decided during the
present term of this court. But let us view this case in other
aspects of it, as exhibited upon the face of the petition and
documents adduced to sustain it; and as it is characterized in
the decree of the District Court, in order to determine whether
it be one within either the mischiefs or the remedies described
or provided by the act of Congress of May 26th, 1824. By recurrence to the certificate of-Trudeau, and to the figurative plan
accompanying it, dated November 15th, 1798, the quantity of
the land and the boundaries thereof will be seen to have been

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

441

The United States v. Castant et al.

fixed and described with the utmost precision, so as to leave no
room for mistake or uncertainty. Turning next to the grant or
concession by Gayoso, on the 12th of December, 1798, it will be
seen that the certificate of survey by Trudeau, and the figurative plan, are directly referred to, and all the lines and boundaries, the quantity of land, and, indeed, every indicium by which
it had been described, are adopted by the grantor, in the very
language of the certificate; and after such reference and adoption, the grant concludes in the following terms: "Approving
them as we do hereby approve them, availing ourselves of the
faculty which the King has given us, we grant in his royal name,
to the aforesaid Donna Maria Manetta Laveau Trudeau, the
aforesaid five hundred superficial acres of land, that she may use
and dispose of them as her own property, in conformity with
the aforesaid acts." The effect of these proceedings on the part
of the Spanish governor was to vest in the grantee a perfect
legal estate, in the subject granted the titulo in forma. The
District Court, upon the strength of these proceedings, declares
what was unquestionably true, viz., that the title vested in the
grantee by the Spanish authorities was a perfect one; but the
court goes on to deduce from this truth a consequence which it
did not warrant, but which it entirely excluded, viz., that "therefore the plaintiffs are entitled to the relief granted by the act of
Congress, entitled, &c." The legitimate deduction from the
facts above ascertained and admitted by the court, would have
been to this effect, and therefore the District Court could have
no jurisdiction of the plaintiffs' petition, and that the same be
accordingly dismissed. It is in this respect that the inconsistency of the decree of the District Court, with the facts on which
it professes to be founded, and with the acts of 1824 and 1844,
and with itself, is made manifest. It first asserts the completeness of the title of the petitioner, and then declares it to be dependent on aids provided by statute; provided for the purpose
of perfecting titles avowedly incomplete, which must continue
forever incomplete, except for the means so provided for perfecting them. That interpretation of the acts of Congress of
1824 and 1844, which declares them to be inapplicable to perfect
legal titles, can no longer be questioned.
It has been expressly ruled in the cases already cited of the
United States v. Reynes, in 9th Howard, 127, and in the United
States v. D'Auterive, in 10th Howard, 609; and upon the same
interpretation of the statutes above-mentioned, have numerous
eases been decided during the present term. The decree of the
District;Court in this case is marked by other peculiarities which
must deprive it of any validity whatsoever. The decree first
decides that the title of Donna Maria tohe
to
land in question is

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Castant et al.

ood and complete as against the United States, and that, therefore, the land belongs to the petitioners, as deducing title from
her. The decree then proceeds to declare and order, "that
whereas it is ascertained that a great part of the said land is
now held by titles enianating from the United States, it is further ordered, adjudged, and decreed, that for all the land within
the limits so held, which has been sold or otherwise disposed of
by the United States, the petitioners shall be, and they are hereby authorized, to enter in any land-office of the United States
in the State of Louisiana, a like quantity of public land elsewhere, in conformity with the provisions of the eleventh section
of the act of Congress, approved on the 26th of May, 1824."
Now, it is to be observed in the first place, that there is, in
this case, on the part of the United States, a general denial of
every fact contained in the petition ; nothing is admitted directly
or by implication. In the next place, there is not in this record
to be found even an attempt to show a grant or confirmation of
any portion of this land by the United States to any person
whomsoever; nor the possession of it, nor of any portion of it, by
any person at any time; not even by the petitioners or those
from whom their title is deduced. Indeed, none but the government of the United States is made a party defendant in this
case. Upon what proof, or on what surmise even, the District
Court could conclude, that the lands had been granted or confirmed by the United States, this court cannot conjecture. Even
if the opinion of the court could import intrinsically any proof
upon this point, the inquiries would remain, as to what portion
of the lands had been granted; by whom, and to whom. Withbut information upon these heads, it seems difficult to imagine,
if the fact- of grants having been made were to be conceded,
what should be the extent of the equivalent to be substituted
for them. The mere assertion of the one or the other can invest
no right, and impose no duty. It is too vague and indefinite to
be comprehended, much less to be enforced with due regar'd to
the rights of the parties to the cause.
It is, therefore, for the several reasons before assigned, the opinion of this court, that the decree of the District Court be reversed, and the petition dismissed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the re.
cord from the District Court of the United States for the Eastern
District of Louisiana, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by
this court, 'hat the decree of the said District Court in this

DECEMBER
The Propeller

TERM, 1851.

Genesee Chief et al. v. Fitzhugh et al.

cause be, and the same is hereby reversed anct anrnullea, and
that this cause be, and the same is hereby remanded-to the said
District Court, with directions to dismiss the petition of the
claimants.

THE

PROPELLER GENESEE CHIEF, HER TACKLE, APPAREL, AND
FURNITURE, WILLI*At L. PIERCE, MASTER, ALEXANDER KELSEY, WILLIAM H. CHENEY , WILLIAM HUNTER, LANSING B.
SWAN, GEORGE R. CLARK, AND ELISHA B. STRONG, APPELLANTS, V. HENRY FITZHUGH, DEWITT C. LITTLEJOHN, AND
JAMES PECK.

The act of Congress, passed on the 26th of February, 1845, (5 Stat. at Large, 726,)
extending the jurisdiction of the district courts to certain cases upon the lakes,
and navigable waters connecting the same, is consistent with the Constitution of
the United States.
It does not rest upon the power granted to Congress to regulate commerce.
But it rests upon the ground that the lakes and navigable waters connecting them are
within the scope of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, as known and understood
in the United States, when the Constitution was adopted.
The admiralty and maritime jurisdiction granted to the Federal Government by the
Constitution of the United 'States is not limited to tide-waters, but extends to all
publi navigable lakes and rivers, where commerce is carried on between different
States, or with n foreign nation.
In the present ease of collision between avessel navigated by steam and a sailing
vecse!, the evidence showvs that the former was in fault.
It is the duty of every stcamhoat to keep a trustworthy person employed as a lookout;
and if there be none such, additional to the helmsman, or if he was not stationed in a proper place, or not vigilantly employed in his duty,
must be regarded
as piad facic evidence that the colrision was the fault of the itsteamboat.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Northern District of New York.
It was a libel fied by Fitzhugh, Littlejohn, and Peck.
The libellanis filed their libel in the District Court for the
Norhern Distric of New York, against the propeller Genesee
Chief, and Pierce, as master, in which they allege that they were

the owners of the schooner Cuba, a vessel of fifty tons burden
and upwards, enrolled and licensed for the coasting trade, and
employed in the business of commerce and navigation between
ports and places in different States and territories upon the
lakes, and navigable waters connecting said lakes. That said
schooner, at the time of the loss and collision, thereinafter mentioned, was laden with five thousand nine hundred and fifty-five
bushel of wheat; and tn Lake Ontario, about forty miles below
Niagara, bound from Sandusky, in the State of Ohio, to Oswego, i the State of New York. Thati the p opeller Genesee
Chief, of which the appellant, Pierce, was master, and being a
vessel of fifty tons burden and upwards, duly enrolled and

