246

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v.

Wilkinson et al.

subsequent negotiations -with him, they expressly excluded the
debt at the Burlington branch, as'no longer under their control.
For these reasons-we are satisfied the judgment of the court
below is right, and should be affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Vermont, andwas argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court, that
the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause be, and the
same is hereby affirmed with costs and damages at the rate of
six per centum per annum.

THE UNITED STATES, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. JOSEPH B. WILKINSON, CHRISTOPHER ROSELIUS, JOHN L. LEwIs, Louis BRINGfER, MANDEVILLE MARIGNY, AND JOHN

R.

GRYMES.

Where the bill of exceptions purported to have been taken at April term, 1848, but
the record showed that, at that time, no suit between the parties was pending, and
that the trial took place in April, 1849, the date of 1848 must be considered as a
clerical error. The certificate from the Circuit Court showed that the bill of exceptions was regularly allowed upon the trial, and this must be conclusive upon this
court.
Where the suit was upon a postmaster's bond and the district-attorney offered to read
in evidence an authentic copy thereof, which the court refused to receive, this refq sal was grroncous.
Although the presumption of law is in favor of the correctness of the court below
where no realojis appear, yet, in this case, the record itself shows the error. If
there was any fact which made the copy of the bond inadmissible, it ought to have
been shown by the defendants, and set-forth in the exception.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit*
Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Louis.
iana:
The facts are set forth in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by 1r. Crittenden. (Attorney-General,) for the
United States, and by Mr. Johnsan, with whom were Mr. Ben,
jamin and Mi. Micon, for the defendants.
Mr. Crittenden. There is but a single question for this court
to supervise and review, which is contained in the bill of exceptions.
The United States sued, on the 11th day of July, 1848, the
sureties of McQueen, late postmaster at New Orleans, on their

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

247

The United States v. Wilkinson et al.

bond dated 8th June, 1840, a copy of which bond, certified by
the auditor of the Post-Office Department, was annexed to the
petition, and therein referred to.
On the trial on the 8th day of May, 1849, being at the April
term of the court, the Attorney for the United States offered in
evidence to the jury the certified copy of the bond annexed to
the petition, and therein referred to, to which the defendants objected; the judge sustained the objection, and refused to allow
the said copy of the bond to be read in evidence to the jury;
"whereupon the Attorney for the United States excepted to the
ruling of the court," and tendered his bill of exceptions; which
was signed and sealed by the judge, and entered on the record.
The counsel for the defendants, in their printed brief, have labored to prove that there is no bill of exceptions, because it is
headed " April term, 1848;"" and recites twice distinctly in the
body of the bill, that it was taken at a trial held at April term,
1848, and on Tuesday, the 8th day of April, 1848."
There is in the record an abundance to correct the mistakes
seized and harped upon by the counsel for defendants, and to
show, without doubt, that the -bill of exceptions applies to the
trial had on the 8th day of May, 1849, being at and during the
April term of the court in the year 1849, and not at April term,
1848; that the mistake is by putting 1848 instead of 1849; all
else is correct.
The suit is numbered 1727; the bill of exceptions is taken
and spread upon the record in suit No. 1727.
The trial is in suit No. 1727; begun on 7th May, 1849, at the
April term thereof, 1849; the trial is resumed on 8th May,
1849, in suit No. 1727, on which day and year the panel of the
jury was completed and the verdict rendered and recorded.
Immediately succeeding, in suit" United States v. Wilkinson
et al., No. 1727, April term," the bill of exceptions is entered of
record, as of the proceedings in that very suit and no other.
There was no trial between the United States and Wilkinson
et al. at April term, 1848.
The suit, "No. 1727," was instituted on the lith day of July,
[848 : and, therefore, there could not have been a trial in said
Suit, No. 1727, in April, 1848, before the suit was commenced.
There is no Tecord showing that there was any suit pending
or tried at April term, 1848, between the United States and
Wilkinson and others, to which a bill of exceptions could apply.
The maxim is, "D e von apparentibus et de non existentibus
eadem est ratio."
The petition, after setting forth the bond, refers to a certified.
copy thereof, annexed to the petition ; and the bill of exceptions
states that the Attorney of the United States offered to read iin

248'

SUPREME
The United States v.

COURT.
Wilkinson et al.

evidence to the jury the instrument " being the bond annexed to
the petition, or information in this cause," . .."dated on the
8th day of June, in the year, 1840."
Upon the whole record it is manifest that the bill of exceptions was tendered, signed, sealed, and enrolled, in this suit, No.
1727, at the April term, 1849, and in no other.
The bill of exceptions is certified, and comes up as' a part of
-the record in the case, No. 1727, in which the writ of error was.
prayed and granted.
No principle is clearer than that an error of description in one
part of a-deed, record, or other instruient, may be corrected by
other descriptions in the same deed, record, or instrument.
The copy, as certified by the auditor o" the Post-Office Department, was legal evidence, according to the act of Congress
of 2d July,- 1836, J 15. 5 Stat. at Large, 82.
The bill of exceptions is to a single point; a single opinion of
the judge in refusing to suffer the certified copy of the bond by
the postmaster and his sureties, "annexed to the petition, or information in this cause," to be read in evidence to the jury.
If the counsel for the defendants, in the court.of original jurisdictibn, assigned no specific cause of objection to the testimony
offered, or did not choose that his cause of objection should be
set down in the bill of exceptions; and if the judge did not give
any reason for refusing to suffer the certified copy of the bond to*
be read in evidence, ahd did not chooseto insert his reason (if
he had any) for refusing to suffer the certified copy of the bond
td be read in evidence to the jury, the want of such cause of
objection, and the" absence of the reason of the judge for such
ruling of the objection to the testimony, cannot be attributed to
the-District Attorney as his fault, nor be charged as -adefect in
the bill of exceptions.
As to the cases cited in the brief for the defendants, it seems
to me they are foreign to the matter of this bill of exceptions,
which states clearly the point ruld by the judge, and presents a
single, distinct, and substantive case of a rejection of the evidence offered by, the plaintiff as the matter to be reviewed by
,the appellate court.
The counsel for the defendants in error contended, that, the
record shows nothing but a petition or declaration, the pleas
and answers of the defendants, the trial by'jury, the general verdict for defendants, and judgment rendered in accordance with
that verdict. There is in the record no bill of exceptions, nor
any thing else presenting a question of law for the consideration
of this court- nothing to support a writ of error; and it would,
therefore, appear certain that the judgment of the Circuit Court
must be affirmed.

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

249

The United States v. Wilkinson et al.

But at page 17, of the printed transcript, is to be found a paper
called a bill of exceptions. It is headed "April Term, 1848,"
and it recites twice, distinctly, in the body of the bill, that it -was
taken at a trial held at the April term, 1848, and on Tuesday
the 8th day of April, 1848.
It appears by the transcript, that the verdict and judgment
complained of by the plaintiffs in error, were rendered in May,
1849, and that the trial of the cause, which resulted in that verdict and judgment, took place in May, 1849, thirteen months
after the date of the only bill of exceptions found in the record.
It is therefore plain that no bill of exceptions was taken at the
trial of the cause, or noted at the trial, and subsequently sealed
wunc pro tvnc. This court cannot therefore take any notice of
this bill of exceptions as forming part of the record, nor will it
consider the matter contained in it. Walton v. United States,
9 Wheat. 651 ; Ex parte Martha Bradstreet, 4 Pet. 102 ; Sheppard et al. v. Wilson, 6 How. 261; Law v. Merrills, 6 Wend.
269; 7 Serg. & Rawle, 219; 8 Id. 211.
But if it should be 'found possible by any means to connect
the bill of exceptions, printed at page 17, and dated at the April
term, 1848, with the trial which occurred in May, 1849, then
the defendants in error submit that said bill cannot be sustained
as affording a ground for reversing the judgment of the Circuit
Court.
It is impossible to understand, from that bill, what was the
document offered in evidence, or what was the objection made
to its &dmission, or what was the. point of law decided by the
court. It exhibits no fact nor circumstance which can enable
this court to determine whether or not the court below erred in
rejecting the paper, whatever it may have been, that was offered
to be read to the jury.
The bill states that: "The attorney of the United States
offered in behalf of the United States, to be read in evidence to
the. jury, a certain instrument, being the bond annexed to the petition or information in this cause, being an authentic copy of
a bond signed by William McQueen as principal, and the parties herein defendants as sureties, for the faithful discharge of
the duties of the office of postmaster at New Orlans, dated on
the 8th day of June, in the year one thousand eight hundred and
forty; to the reading in evidence of which bond, the counsel of
defendants objected, and the court sustained the objection, and
refused to allow the document to be read"'
HoWv is it possible to ascertain, from this statement, whether
the decision of the judge was right or wrong? The bill of exceptions declares that the paper which was offered was an instrument, a bond. a copy of a bond and a document The

250

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v.

Wilkinson et al.

statement seems to imply that there wmre two papers, a bond
and a copy of a bond, and does not specify which of the two
was offered in evidence, nor can it be discovered what was the
objection sustained by the court All the presumptions of the
aw are in favor of the correctness of the decision of the judge.
It may be that the copy was rejected because the original had
already been offered, and the copy therefore inadmissible and
irrelevant: it may be that the bond. was rejected because it was
mutilated, or that there were erasures on its face not accounted
for; or for some other good and legal cause of objection. This
court has Aways held that the party taking exception is confined to the specific objection made at the trial: that the point
excepted to must be shown., In the present case the point, that
is, the question of law, does not appear; thb fact alone is stated
that some objection was made, and that the document was not
received in evidence, but the point of law raised at the trial, to
wit, the nature of the objection, does not appear and cannot be
ascertained.
In Dunlop v. iMunroe, 7 Cranch, 270,'the language of Mr.
Justice Johnson is: "1Each bill of exceptiofis must be considered
as presenting a distinct and substantive case; and it is on the
evidence stated in itself alone that the court is to decide. We
cannot go beyond it aiid collect other facts which must have
been in the minds of the parties, and the insertion of which in
this bill of exceptions could alone have sanctioned the opinion
as prayed for." Chief Justice Marshall lays down the same rule
in Pendleton v. United States, 2 Brock C. C. R. 80. See also
Hinde's Lessee v. Longworth, 11 Wheat. 209.
In a subsequent, case this court censured the practice of excepting generally to a charge. of a judge, and declared that it
would dismiss the writ of error unless the rulings objected to
were specifically pointed out. Stimpson v. West Chester R. R.
Co. 4 How. 380; Zeller's Lessee v. Eckert et al. 4 Id. 297.
The principle that the party taking the exception must state
the point, and is confined to that alone, is established in the
jurisprudence of every State to whose Reports we have access.
We refer to Bacon's Abridg. vol. 2, p. 113, edition of 1846, and
authorities there cited. Also Raymond on Bills of Exceptions,
p. 33.
In Louisiana, where the Qtate practice has been adopted in
the federal courts, a long and unbroken series of decisions recognizes this principle to its fullest extent. Pratt v. Flower, 2 N. S.
333; Balfour v. Chew, -6 N. S. 519; Miller v. Breedlove, 1
L. R. 323; Ohio Ins Co. v. Edmondson, 5 L. R. 301;, Holmes
v. Holmes, 6 L. R. 471; Keene:v. Relf, 11 L. R. 309; Hennen
v. Wetzel, :2 L. R. -265,. In the case last cited, the bill of ex-

DECEMBER TERM,

1851.

251

The United States v. Wilkinson et al.

ceptions was taken to the offering in evidence of a promissory
note, the ground being stated in the bill to be "a very material
variance between the note offered in evidence and that described
in petition." The court refused to examine the bill of exceptions
because it did not set forth in what the variance consisted,
although both the note and petition were copied into the transcript.
The counsel for the defendants in error hlso referred to the
following authorities: Kensington v. Inglis, 8 East, 280; Carroll v. Peake, 1 Pet. 21; 4 Phillips on Evidence, edition of
1850, with notes by Cowen and Hill and Vancott, p. 778, where
all the authorities are collected.
Mr. Chief-Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the courL
This action was brought against the defendants in error as
sureties in the official bond of William McQueen, who was
appointed postmaster at New Orleans in 1840.
The proceeding was by petition according to the practice in
Louisiana, and a copy of the bond was set forth in the petition,
and also annexed to and filed with it, and the United States
alleged that McQueen had received, as postmaster, twenty thousand and sixty dollars and ninety-two cents, which he had neglected and refused to pay over.
The defendants, in their answers, took three grounds of deferce:
1. They admitted their several signatures to the bond set forth
in the petition, but denied that it had ever been delivered by
them or accepted by the Postmaster-General.
2. That there had been a former recovery againstthem for the
same cause of action.
3. That the suit was barred by limitations, not having been
instituted against the sureties within two years after the default
of the postmaster.
At the trial the jury found a verdict for the defendant, and
judgment was entered accordingly, and the United States have
brought this -writ of error upon the judgment.
It appears by the record duly certified to this court, that the
following exception was taken:
TUn,'ted States v.

iTlkinson et als.

Bill of exceptions.

The

UNITED STATES

)

V.
13B.

WILKINSON et al. I

No. 1727.

252

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Wilkinson et al.

In the Circuit Court of the United States, for the Fifth Circuit
sitting for the .EasternDistrict of New Orleans.
Present, Hon. T. H. McCaleb, Judge of the District Court,
presiding alone.
April term,
1848.
Be it remembered, that at the April term of the Circuit Court
aforesaid, in the year 1848, on Tuesday, the 8th day of April,
1848, on the trial of the above-named cause, the attorney of the
-United State3 offered in behalf of the said United States to [be]
read in evidence to the jury a certain instrument, being a bond
annexed to the petition or information in this cause, being an
authentic copy [of] a bond signed by William McQueen as
principal, and the parties herein defendant as sureties, for ,he
faithful discharge of the duties of the office of postnaster at New
Orleans, dated on the eighth day of June, in the year one thousand eight hundred and forty; to the reading in evidence of
which bond the, counsel of defendc ats objected, and the court
sustained the objection, and refused t - allow the document to be
read.

Whereupon the attorney of the United States excepted to the
ruling of the court, and tenders this as his bill of exceptions,
praying that the same may be signed by the court, and made a
part of this record.
THEo. H. MCCALBB. [SEAL.]
U S. Judge.
This excqption, it will be observed, states that it was taken
on the 8th day of April, 1848; and the record shows that the
suit was not instituted until the 11th of July in that year, and
that the trial took place on the 7th and 8th of May, 1849; and
that the verdict was rendered on the day last mentioned.
It is insisted on behalf of the defendants that, as this excep.
tion is stated to have been taken on the 8th of April, 1848, more
than a year before the trial, it cannot be regarded by this court
as an exception legally taken, nor noticed in its judgment. And,
further, that if it be considered as an exception regularly taken
and certified, yet the opinion of the court rejecting the testimony
was correct.

The exception is certainly very loosely framed, and the date
above mentioned cannot be reconciled with the rest of the record. It is evidently a clerical mistake; arising, most probably,
from the pressure and hurry of business, which is sometimes
unavoidable in a court of original jurisdiction. For the titling
at the head of the exception states it to be taken in No. 1727,
which is the number by which this suit appears to have been
marked in the Circuit Court throughout the proceedings; and in
the body of the exception it is said to be offered at the triaL

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

253

The United States v. Wilkinson et al.

There is nothing in the rec6rd from which it can be inferred that
a suit was pending between the same parties on the 8th of
April, 1848. And this exception is regularly certified by the
Circuit Court as a part of the proceedings in this case, and as
one taken at the trial. This certificate from the Circuit Court,
is conclusive upon this court, and the exception must be regarded as duly taken and regularly brought up by the writ of
error.
With respect to the opinion excepted to, we can see no ground
for rejecting the testimony. The exception in substance states
that the District Attorney offered to read in evidence a certain
instrument, annexed to the petition, being an authentic copy of
a bond signed by the defendants, as sureties for McQueen. It
is admitted by the answers, that the defendants had signed the
original bond of which this is a copy: and moreover, the copy
offered is said to be authentic. The possession of the original
bond by the proper officers of the United States, was primd facie
evidence that it had been delivered and accepted. The bond
was a necessary part of the evidence ih behalf of the United
States, and as the copy was duly authenticated, according to the
act of Congress, we are at a loss to understand upon-what
ground it could have been rejected.
It is said that there might have been objections which do not
appear in the exception, and that every presumption, is to be
made in favor of the judgment of the inferior court, and that it
is to be presumed right until the contrary appears. This is true.
But the contrary does appear in the present case. - If, indeed,the exception had merely stated that the plaintiff offered a certain paper without describing it, or without showing its application to the matter in controversy, and the court had rejected it
without stating the grounds of its decision, undoubtedly the
judgment would be presumed to be correct.
But here the paper is shown by the statement in the excep-.
tion to be legally admissible. The error, therefore, is apparent;
and no presumption can be made in favor of a judgment, where
the error is apparent on the record.
If there was any fact which, notwithstanding the authentication of the copy, madeitinadmissible, it oughtto have been shown
by the defendants, and set forth in the exception. And where
no such fact appears, it must be presumed not to exist. A contrary rule would make the right to except of no value to the
party, and would put an end to the revisory power of the appellate court whenever the inferior tribunal desired to exclude it" De non apparentibuset de non existentibus eaden est ratio,"is an
81d and well-established maxim in legal proceedings, and is
founded on principles of justice as well as of law. And for error
VOL. XII.

22

254

SUPREME COURT.
Bond v. Brown.

in rejecting the testimony which upon the facts in the exception
ought to have been received, the judgment of the Circuit Court
must be reversed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit'Court of the United States for the Eastern
District of Louisiana, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this
court, that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause
be, and the same is hereby reversed, and that this cause be, and
the same is hereby remanded to the said Circuit Court, with
directions to award a venire facias de novo.

JosHUA B. BOND,

ADMINISTRATOR OF MARY ANN CADE, PLAIN-

TIFF IN ERROR, V. JAMES BROWN.

By the Louisiana practice, if neither party claims a trial by jury, the whole case is
decided by the court; matters of fact as well as of law.
Where, upon such a trial, no testimony is objected to, and it ZQes not appear that any
question of law arose or was decided, and the case i3 brought to this court by
writ of error, the judgment of the court below must be affirmed.
The decision of the court below, upon questions of fac is as conclusive upon this
court as the verdict of a jury would be.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Louisiana.
It was a suit brought by Brown, a citizen of Mississippi,
against Bond, as the administrator of Mary Ann Cade, upon
a bond with a collateral condition, given by one Witherspoon,
for which Mary Ann Cade was responsible.
The petition set out the bond and the breaches. The defendant answered, denying some of the material facts stated in the
petition, and alleging other facts, which, if proved, were sufficient to bar a recovery. Neither party claimed a trial by jury;
and, according to the Louisiana code of practice, articles 494.
495, the whole case was submitted to the judge.
In February, 1849, the cause -came on for trial, and, after
argument, the court pronounced t6e following judgment:
"JAMES BROWN

,1

v.
1596,
J.B. Bom, Adm'r &c.f
"This cause having been argued and siiamitted to the.cour

