DECEMBER T

l$RM, 1851.

69

Lessiour et al. v. Price.

rangement as valid and binding upon both parties; and if any
fraud or imposition has been committed to the prejudice of the
bank, they must look to him personally for compensation and
redress. The rights acquired by each party to the securities ex.
changed, must be taken to be such as were intended by the
terms of agreement; and, regarding the transaction in this
light, it is clear, even conceding, as is alleged, that Collier has
since waived the surrender of the c6l1ateral securities for which
he had stipulated, or has since reassigned them to the bank, the
defence of Groves is still complete. These drafts, and judgment upon them, became extinguished the moment the agree.
meht between the bank and Collier was carried into execution.
They then became the exclusive property of the latter, in which
event his agreement with King, the principal debtor, worked an
immediate satisfaction.
It has, also, been argued, that King has failed to fulfil all the
stipulations in his agreement with Collier, and hence that it is
not available to Groves. But this is a question exclusively be.
tween him and Collier, who, for aught that appears, is content
with'the agreement in the way it has been carried into execution.
He purchased the property and took the sheriff's deed as is al.
the
estate,
anddenied,
still holds
it intoAnd,
he has not
of
enjoyment
and
acquired
all the
the possession
went
and not
feged,
to King,
lookchosen
he must
to
He has
for in his agreement,
and redress.
for compensation
personally,stipulated
property
accept the execution of the agreement, and must be deemed
bound by its stipulations.
In ever view we have been able to take of the case, we are
of opinion the decree of the court below is righ., and should be
affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on-to be heard on the transcript of the
record, from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Dig.
trict of Louisiana, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by this
court, that the decree of the said Circuit Court in this cause b6,
and the same is hereby affirmed, with costs.
GODFREY LEssIrEu,

ABnArM AUGUSTINE AND MARY W. HIS WIFE,

THOMAS IL DAWSON, RICHARD J. WATSON AND SARAH HIS
WIFE, AND PALMrELIA E. DAwsON, LAURA A. DAWSON AND
GEORGE W. DAWSoN, INFANTS, BY THOMAS H. DAWSON THEIR
GUARDIAN, PLAINTIFFS IN EnRROR, v. THOMU.AS PicE.
Where the highest court of a State affirmed the judgment of the court below, ta
consequence of an equal division between the judges thereof, such judgment of

60.

SUPREME COURT.
Lessieur et al. v. Price.

affirmance is considered, when 4he case is brought here under the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act, as an afrarmance of the rulings of the court below.
Under the act of the 17th lFebruary, 1815, (3 Stat. at Large, 211,) for the relief of the
inhabitants of New Madrid County, who suffered by earthquakes, a notice of location
given to the Surveyor-General was not sufficient to vest the title in the applicant;
the title was not complete until the plat and certificate of survey were filed and
recorded in the Recorder's office. An exchange of titles then at once took place.
The applicant became entitled to his new location, aId the land which he abandoned reverted to the United States.
But if the claim, under a N~ew Madrid certificate, be prosecuted by an agent without
the kpowledge of the principal, the title to the new land cnnot vest in the prinelpal until he assents to and adopts the proceedings of his agent; because, by such
assent,.he relinquishes the title to the laud which he fist owned.
In 1820, Congress granted to the State of Missouri, (3 Star. at Large 547,) four sections of land, which should, "under thedirection of the leglahture, be located, as
near as may be, in one body, at any time, in such townships and ranges as the legis.lature may select, on any of the public lands of the United States: Provided, that
such locations shall be made prior to the public sale of the lands of the United
States surrounding such location:'
Th~s grant did not need an application to an officer of the United States for permission to locate it. When the legislature selected the land, and gave notice thereof
to the Surveyor-General and Recorder of the Land-District, the land became identified and the title complete.
In making the selection, the legislature had a right to inlndo fractional parts of
sections, until the entire amount -f.four sections was made up.
The time at which the title of the State became complete, was the day on which the
Governor notified the Surveyor-General of the selection of the land by commissioners who had been appointed for that purpose.

THis case -was brought up from the Supreme Court of the State
of Missouri by a writ of error, issued under the 25th section of
the Judiciary Act.
It was an ejectment brought by the plaintiffs in error, in the
Circuit Court of Cole County, (State Court of Missouri,) to
recover lot No. 455, as known and described upon the plat of
the city of Jefferson, lying and being at a corner formed by the
Both parties
intersection of Washington and High Streets.
claimed to derive title from the United States. The cause was
submitted to the Circuit Court of Cole County, as a jury, and
the judgment being for the defendant, the plaintiffs carried it to
the Supreme Court of Missouri, where the judgment of the
court below was affirmed by a divided court; one judge not
sitting, one being for affirming the judgment, and one dissenting. The plaintiffs then brought the case to this court by writ

of error.
The bill of exceptions, which was taken'to the rulings of the
court upon the trial of the cause in Cole County, gets forth, in.
extenso, sundry papers, the insertion of which does not appear
necessary in this report. A summary of the evidence offered,
together with the prayers to the court, seems to be all that is
required.
Upon the trial in the Circuit Court, the plaintiffs gave in
evidence the following chain 'of. title, to wit:
1. A confirmdtion made by the Board of Commissioners, on

DECEMBER TERM, 1852.

61

Lessieur et al. v. Price.

the 8th of January, 1811, of two hundred arpens of land, in the
county of New Madrid, to Baptiste Delisle, as described in a,
plat of survey certified the 27th of February, 1806.
2. The commissioners' or New Madrid certificate, issued 20th
of November, 1817, to Baptiste Delisle, for two hundred arpens,
in lieu of his land, injured by earthquakes, lying in the county
of New Madrid.
3. A notice of location given to the Surveyor-General, by
Thomas Hempstead, and A. L. Langham, as the legal representatives of Baptiste Delisle, dated 2d June, 1821, that they had
located two hundred arpens under the foregoing certificate, "so
as to include fractional section number six, the northeast fractional quarter of fractional section number seven, and as much
off the north part of the west fractional half of fractional section number eight, as will make the quantity of two hundred
arpens, all in township number forty-four, north of the base line
of range number eleven, west of the fifth principal meridian,
south of the Missouri River."
4. A survey made by the Deputy-Surveyor of the above location, dated 5th of August, 1821, and filed 11th of February,
1822.
5. Patent certificate, dated 25th of February, 1822, and delivered to Charles L. Hempstead.
6. Patent from the United States to Baptiste Delisle, dated
the 13th of November, 1822.
7. Deed from Delisle and wife to Robert D. Dawson and
Godfrey Leissieur, for the land patented to him, dated 13th of
September, 1842.
8. It was admitted that the parties suing as the heirs of R.
D. Dawson, were his heirs, and their names were correctly set
out.
9. It was further admitted, that the defendant was in possession of the land in controversy, at the commencement of this suit.
10. The monthly and yearly value of the premises was agreed
upon between the parties.
The defendant, to show title in himpelf, relied upon the following facts :
1. An act of Congress, approved 6th March, 1820, the fourth
paragraph of the sixth section of which provides as follows:
"Four entire sections of land be, and the same are hereby
granted to said State, (the State of Missouri,) for the purpose
of fixing their seat of governnient thereon, which said sections
shall, under the direction of the legislature of said State, be
located, as near as may be, in one body at any time, in such
townships and ranges as the legislature aforesaid may select,
on any of the publie lands of the United States, provided that
VOr . XTT,

6

62

SUPREME

COURT.

Lessieur et al. v. Price.

such locations shall be made prior to the public sale of the lands
of the United States surrounding such location." 3 Stat. at
Large, 547.
2. An ordinance, adopted by the Convention of the State of
Missouri, on the 19th July, 1820, accepting the Said grant of
land. R. C. 1845, p. 22.
3. An act of the legislature of the State of Missouri, entitled
UAn act providing for the location of the permanent seat of government for the State of Missouri," approved 16th November,
1820. 1 Terr. Laws, 649. This act appoints commissioners to
select a site for the permanent seat of government, and requires
them to make their report to the next session of the General
Assembly of said State.
4. An act, supplementary to the foregoing act, approved 28th
June, 1821. 1 Terr. Laws, 773. This act provides for filling
vacancies that may happen in the Board of Commissioners, and
extends the time of making their report until the next session of
the General Assembly.
5. A joint resolution of the General Assembly, approved 28th
June; 1821, (1 Terr. Laws, 780,) requiring the Governor of the
State to notify the Surveyor-General for the State of Illinois and
Missouri, and also the Register of the Land-Office in which the
lands are selected, that commissioners appointed for that purpose "have selected the fractional sections six, seven, and eight,
the entire sections seventeen and eighteen, and so much of the
north part of sections nineteen and -twenty as will make four
sections, in fractional township forty-four, south of the Missouri
River, in range number eleven, to fifth principal meridian; and
that he request the said surveyor and register to withhold the
same from sale or location, until the general assembly determine
tvhether said selection be accepted by the State."
6. An act of the General Assembly, entitled "An act fixing
che permanent seat of government," approved 31st December,
1821. 1 Terr. Laws, 825. The first section of which accepts
the land above described for -the use and benefit of said State.
The second section provides for the laying out of a town thereon; and the third section requires the Governor to notify the
Surveyor-General of the acceptance of said land by the General
Assembly, for the permanent seat of government, by transmittingto him an authenticated copy of said act.
7. Also, an act of the General Assembly; entitled "An act supplementary-to the act fixing the permanent seat of.government,"
approved 11th January, 1822. 1 Terr. Laws, 859. This act further provides for the laying out of a town on the land selected,
authorizes the sale of the lots in said town, and prescribes the
terms of said sale, and requires the commissioners to make a

DECEMIBER TERMI,

1851.

63

Lessieur et al. v. Price.

report of their acts to the next General Assembly. It further provides, that "any proposals made by any person or persons having claim to any part of the said lands selected for the permanent
seat of government, in order that any claim or claims may be
adjusted, provided nothing herein contained shall in anywise be
construed to legalize or acknowledge such claim as valid in
law," shall, by said commissioners, be communicated to the
general assembly.
8. A proclamation by. the President of the United States,
lated 13th"June, 1823, bringing into market by public sale, in
the o,dlinary way, townships No. 40, 41, 42, 43, and 44, in range
11 west, and townships No. 40, 41, 42, and 43, in ranges 12, 13,
and 14, of the fifth principal meridian. Sales to take place on
the first Monday of October, 1823.
9. It was admitted that the premises in dispute are a part of
the lands described in the foregoing resolutions; and the acts of
the legislature given in evidence by the defendant subsequent
thereto; and that the defendant holds whatever title the State
had to the said claim.
To rebut the defendant's title, the plaintiff gave the following
evidence :
1. A copy of a letter from the Governor of the State of Missouri, addressed to the Surveyor-General of Illinois and Missouri,
dated 3d July, 1821, informing him of the selection made-by the
commissioners, for locating the permanent seat of government,
and requesting him to withhold the lands thus designated, from
sale or location, until the General Assembly shall determine whether they will accept the same. This letter is indorsed as havIng been received 8th July, 1821.
2. A letter from same to same, dated 1st January, 1822,
transmitting an authenticated copy of the act of 31st December,
1821, entitled" Au act fixing the permanent seat of government."
This letter, by the indorsement thereon, appears to have been
received on-the day of its date.
3. A letter from the Surveyor-General to Governor McNair, in
answer to the above letter, dated 2d January, 1822. After acknowledging the receipt of the letter of the 1st January, 1822,
and the copy of the act of the General Assembly of 31st December, 1821, the letter proceeds as follows: "I conceive it proper
for me to inform you, for the information of the General Assem.
bly, that a part of this land, (referring to the land selected by the
commissioners, and accepted by the act of 31st December, 1821,)
was located in virtue of a New Madrid certificate, on the 2d
June, 1821, as represented on the sketch, and described in the
entry made thereof, which you will find herewith inclosed. You
will also receive a copy of a paper purporting to be a copy of

64

SUPREME COURT.
Lessieur et al v. Price.

an entry, or location of fractional section No. 7, township
No. 44, north of the base line of range No. 11, west of the
fifth- principal meridian; this day filed in this office by Major
Taylor Berry. For the character of this last-mentioned paper,
as I view it, see my remarks on the back thereof."
4. It was admitted that the journal of the Senate of Missouri,
of the 23d November, 1821, shows that a committee of the
senate, to which had been referred tht report of the commissioners, for the location of the seat of government of the State,
reported to the senate that the propositions made by Angers L.
Langham ought to be accepted; and that the seat of government should be permanently located on the eight hundred and
ninety-two acres of land situated at Cote Sans Dessein. That
one half of which Langham proposed to donate to the State,
which was concurred in. On motion, the report was laid on
the table until next day, and afterwards, on the 25th. November,
1821, the same was indefinitely postponed.
5. That the journal of the house of representatives shows that,
on the 28th November, 1821, the house had under consideration
the location of the permanent seat of government.
On the 15th of December next, following, the committee of
the judiciary of the house reported to the house the state of the
title at Cote Sans Dessein. On the 28th of same month, the
house had the same subject under consideration.
6. It was further admitted that the journal of the house of
representatives shows that, on the 3d January, 1822, Governor
McNair laid before the General Assembly the communication
received by him from the Surveyor-General, of date 2d January,
1822.
7. A joint resolution of the two houses of the General Assembly, requesting the Governor to notify the President of the
United States of the selection made for the seat of government,
approved 14th December, 1822 1 Terr. Laws, 984.
8. An act of the General Assembly of the State of Missouri,
approved 19th December, 1822, (1 Terr. Laws, 1018,) authorizing the trustees appointed by the act to contract with the claimant for the removal of the New Madrid location from the lands
selected for the seat of government on certain conditions; if an
axjustment be not obtained, then the trustees are required to
select eight squares for public purposes, and the land to selected,
together with the streets and alleys laid out, are condemned for
public use, &c.
9. The survey of the lands selected by the State of Missouri,
made in August, 1824, and approved by the Surveyor-General,
on the 25th September, 1847.
Thereupon the defendant offered the following additional evidence, to wit:

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

05

Lessieur et al. v. Price.

1. A copy from the books of the Recorder of Land Titles of
the relinquishment of lands in New Madrid, by which it appears
that the land in lieu of which the certificate in favor of Baptiste
Delisle was issued, and which the plaintiff had given in evidence,
was made by Carter Beamon.
2. A copy of a deed from Delisle, for the land in New Madrid,
to Carter Beamon, dated 4th August, 1817, acknowledged on
same day, and recorded on the 17th September, 1817. It was
certified by the Recorder of Land Titles as being a true copy of the
original on file in his office, and was also a sworn copy. Having
first proved by a witness that he had applied to said recorder for
the original which he had seen in his office and had compared
with the copy, stating to him that he wished to use it on the
trial of this case. But the recorder refused to let it go out of
his office, saying that it was one of the files of his office, and
that he was not authorized to let it go out of his office.
3. A certified copy of a deed from Delisle to Alexander Conia,
dated 17th October,'1810, proved on the 20th January, 1823, before the judge of the County Court of St. Louis County, and
recorded on the 6th May, 1823, in Cole County. This deed conveys the same land in New Madrid County.
The plaintiffs objected to the introduction of both deeds as
evidence in the cause, and their objections were sustained, and
said deeds rejected.
4. The defendant then read in evidence the deposition of John
Baptiste Delisle, which show,; that, until the year 1842, he never
knew that the certificate issued in his favor, by virtue of which
the location on the land in question was made, had been issued,
nor of the location, nor survey thereof, nor of the issuing or existence of a patent to him of said land, nor even that Congress had
passed a law for the relief of the sufferers by earthquakes in New
Mladrid County. And that, consequently, until said last-mentioned date, lie never had given any assent to any of the proceedings touching the New MIadrid location in his name.
On the close of the evidence the counsel for the-plaintiff prayed
tho cout to declare the following, in the nature of instructions, to
be the lave of this case: lst. The patent from the United States to John Baptiste Delisle, if the same be true and genuine, is sufficient in law to vest
the legal title [to] the land therein mentioned in the said Delisle, if he were living at its date. [Given.]
2d. The deed from Delisle and wife to Robert D. Dawson
and Godfrey Lessieur, if true and genuine, is sufficient in law to
vest said title in said Dawson and Lessieur. [Given.]
4th. That if the New Madrid certificate, granted to said
Delisle, was, on the 2d June, 1821, located on the land in con6*

SUPREME

COURT.

Lessieur et al. v. Price.

troversy, and was afterwards surveyed by a United States surveyor, according to law, and was appraised by the SurveyorGeneral; and said land was finally patented to Delisle, according
to said location and survey, then the effect of said patent is to
vest said legal title in said Delisle, (as against any other title
derived from the United States,) from said 2d June, 1821, the
date of said location. [Refused.]
5th. That to vest the legal title to the four entire sections
of land granted to the State for a seat of government by the
act of the 6th March, 1820, it was necessary that said location should have been made of four whole and entire sections;
and that a location thereof, on two whole sections and five parts
of other sections, was not in conformity with said act, and therefore void, unless subseq-uently ratified by the Government of the
United States, or some department or office thereof, authorized
so to do. [Refused.]
6th. That -alocation of said land by the State should have
been made in the office of some officer of the Land-Office
Department of the United States, and that a record of said
location sh uld have been made in such office. [Refused.]
7th. To -Avevalidit to such location, it should have been
sanctioned by some oicer of the United States having authority
in disposing of the public lands. [Refused.]
8th. That such location could not lawfully be made in the
office of the Surveyor of Public Lands in Illinois and Missouri.
[Refused.]
9th. There is no evidence before the court, sitting as a jury,
that any location of said four entire sections ever was in fact
made. [Refused.]
10th. That if the New Madrid certificate, granted to John B.
Delisle, was, on the 2d of June, 1821, located on the lands in
controversy; and that said location was, on the 5th of August,
1821, surveyed by the proper officer of the United States, and
afterwards patehted to said Delisle, in conformity to said survey,
the effect of said patent is to vest said title in said Delisle, or
his legal representatives, from the said 5th of August, 1821. as
against any person deriving title from the United States, after
said location, and before said patent. [Refused.]
11th. That the notice of location, survey; patent, and other
documents and acts shown in evidence by the plaintiffs, touch.
ing the location of the New Madrid certificate, No. 347, issued
to John B. Delisle, &c., if true and genuine documents, show a
better title than any which has.been shown by the defendants.
[Refused.]
12th. The neglect of the Surveyor-General, or the Recorder of
Land-Titles, to perform any act of mere duty on their part,

DECEMBER

TERM

1851.

67

Lessieur et al. v. Price.

towards the consummation of a title on said location, could not
affect the rights of the party interested. [Refused.]
The defendants then prayed the following instructions:
1st. The title of the United States to the land described in
the copy of the patent given in evidence by the plaintiffs was
not divested out of the United States until the plat and survey,
given in evidence by the plaintiffs, was returned to the office of
the Recorder of Land Titles; and the title of the United States to
the land located under the directions of the Legislature of the
State of Missouri, in pursuance of the 4th proposition of the
6th section of the act of Congress of the 6th of March, 1820,
was vested in the State as early as the acceptance by said State
of the selection of land made by her commissioners. If, therefore, said acceptance was made prior, in point of time, to the
returning of said survey and plat to the office of the Recorder of
Land Titles; and if the land so selected and located embraces
the same land mentioned in said copy of patent given in evidence by the plaintiff, then the said plaintiffs are not entitled to
recover in this action. [Refused.]
2d. If the John B. Delisle, who was the owner of the land in
the county of New Madrid, in lieu of which the certificate No.
347 was issued, until the year 1842, knew nothing of the issuing or existence of said certificate, nor of the notice, survey, or
patent, given in evidence by the plaintiffs, and never assented
to the same prior to said date, and if, prior to said date, the
former sections of land mentioned in the 4th proposition of the
6th section of 'the act of Congress, approved March the 6th,
1820, had been located under the direction of the Legislature
of this State, upon the premises in question, then no title passed
to said Delisle, in or to said premises, as against the State of
Missouri. [Given.]
3d. If Langharn and Hempstead obtained the certificate No.
347, given in evidence by the plaintiffs claiming to be the legal
representatives of John B. Delisle, and in that character made
the location, when in fact they were not the legal representatives of said Delisle, Aor in any manner entitled to said certificate, nol to the land located by virtue thereof, such location is
void, as against this defendant. [Refused.]
The first and third of which 'vere refused, and the second
given, to the giving of which the plaintiffs also excepted.
The court thereupon gave a verdict for the defendant.
The plaintiffs then moved for a new trial, which was refused,
and a bill of exceptions was taken to the several rilfings of the
court.
It has been-before mentioned, that the Supreme Court of
Missouri affirmed the judgment of the court below by a divided

68

SUPREME COURT.
Lessieur et al. v. Price.

court; and that the plaintiffs sued out a writ of error, and
brought the case up to this court.
It was argued by Mr.. Glover, for the plaintiffs in error, and
Mr. Leslie, for the defendant
Mr. Glover made the following points:
1. The plaintiffs in error exhibited a title good in itself. The
New Madrid certificate to John Baptiste Delisle, or his legal
representatives, dated November 20, 1817, the entry therewith
of June 2, 1821, the survey of August 5th, 1821, issued to the
recorder February 11, 1822, patent certificate February 25,
1822, and patent in conformity with the said preliminary steps,
dated November 13, 1822, constitute a title which would hold
the land if no other title had emanated from the United
States.
2. The defendant in error also claims that he holds a title
valid in itself. This proposition the plaintiffs controvert entirely.
They believe that the defendant has no title whatever; and in
due time will endeavor to demonstrate that all the steps taken by
the State of Missouri, in order to perfect a title under the grant
contained in the act of Congress, approved March 6, 1820, were
null and void, not being in conformity to the terms of the grant,
or the laws of the land.
3. They will concede, however, for the present, and merely for
the sake of the argument, that such a title exists in the defendant as he claimed for himself, and proceed to examine, with this
view of the subject, what is the relative value of that title when
compared with the plaintiffs'.
4. Whenever two titles have emanated from government, it
becomes necessary to inquire which is the elder title, as that one
must prevail. 1 Peters, 668; 13 lb. 436.
5. The plaintiffs insist that their title began to exist at the
date of the entry, or notice of location, June 2, 1821; and that
the patent thereon, issued'to Delisle, or his legal representatives,
relates back to the said entry, and overreaches any other title,
taking its inception in the mean time from the Government of
the United States.
6. A contrary position has been taken just here by the defendant. It is this: that the right of Delisle, or any one claiming
under him, incepted only at the moment, of the return of the plat
of his survey into the office of the Recorder of Land Titles. That
in a case of confficting titles, the priority of right can only be
determined with reference to the date of this event; arid that
after the title is consummated by the emanation of a patent, it
has relation only to this point of time. Two decisions of this

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

69

Lessieur et al. v. Price.

court are relied on as establishing this doctrine. Bagnell v. Broderick, 13 Peters, 436; and Barry v. Gamble, 3 How. 32.
(The counsel then examined these and other decisions of this
court to show that the question did not arise, when an inchoate
right springs up in the progress of acquiring a title under a New
Madrid certificate, as against a conflicting grant.)
7. That the notice, survey, and patent vested a title in John
Baptist Delisle, or his legal representatives, notwithstanding the
said Delisle was ignorant of the fact of their emanation. The
delivery of the said documents to Langham and Hempstead, as
the acts of the United States, for the use of said Delisle, being
beneficial to him, his land in New Madrid havirg been destroyed,
vested a perfect title in him. 4 Kent, Com. 454 and notes; 2 Salk.
R. 168; 1 Touch. 236; 15 Wend. 660; 6 Cow. 620; 8 Barn.
& Cress. 448; 5 Mlo. R. 147; 4 Day, 66; 12 Johns. 82.
8. But delivery is not a requisite formality to the validity of a
patent. It takes effect on passing the seal of the office, without
the act of delivery, and without any affirmative assent of the
patentee. 2 Coke, 276 and note; 17 Cr. Eliz. 167; 5 Cow. 458;
1 Cranch, 160; 1 Coy. & Hughes, Dig. 738, ch. 7, No. 8.
9. It would, therefore, seem to be unnecessary to look further
into the case, supposing that a valid title, standing by itself, has
been shown in the State of Iissouri. The inception of the
same could not be earlier than the selection of the land in question, December 31, 1821, by the legislative act. The title of
Pelisle, beginning on the 2d June, 1821, was earlier in time, and
must prevail over the supposed State title.
0. If, however, the right of Delisle did not begin to exist till
thEre was proof of his affirmative assent to the entry, location
and patent in his name, as shown -by-his deed to Lessieur and
Dawson, in 1842, still the' plaintiffs were entitled to recover,
because there was no title whatever in the State, as will now be
shown.
11. The act of Congress, March 6, 1820, gave the grant therein
contained, on the express condition-" provided" is thewordthat the location should be made prior to the public sale of lands
surrounding such location. This word makes a precedent condition. This was an emergency the defendant saw the necessity
of meeting. He, therefore, introduced proof that, on one side of
the location the lands were not offered at public sale prior to October, 1823, while he introduced no evidence as to the public
sale of the lands on the other side of the location, they having
been offered to public sale prior to the location. The location
was, therefore, in violation of this condition of the grant, and
void. 4 Pick. 45, 7; Ib.156; 6 T. R. 320; 2 Barr, 219.
12. The act of the Legislature of Missouri, approved Decem-

SUPREME COURT.
Lessieur et al. v. Price.

ber 31, 1821, was merely an expression of intention to locate,
not a location of their grant. To have constituted a location,
application ought to have been made at the proper land-office,
and an entry allowed according to the laws of the United States.
But there never was any communication made by any person
for the State of MVissouri to any officer of the United States,
having power to grant an application for, or allow any location
of, the said lands. [See Land Laws Instructions arid op. part 2,
No. 304, 474, *394,showing that such a location should be entered in the Register's office.] The State location was, therefore,
void for want of a proper record thereof in the proper office of
the government of the United States.
13. But the steps taken by the State of Missouri, with reference to their grant, were otherwise in violation of the terms of
the grant, and contrary to the laws of the United States. In this,
the lands claimed to have been located, are not the lands granted.
In contemplation of the laws of the United States, the terms
"section," "1half section," "quarter section," designate certain
specific tracts marked and designated on the map of public
surveys, indicate hot a quantity of acres, but tracts inclosed in
certain metes and bounds, and no other idea can be substituted
as the meaning of the grant. Thus a section is-not 640 acres
at the will of the grantee; but is a known and fixed subdivision
of the public land, marked and bounded as such. And so with
"a half section," "a quarter section." That this position is
well taken, observe the distinctive phraseology of the following
acts of Congress: An Act granting lands to Mississippi, Public
Lands Laws, Instructions, and Opinions, part 1, p. 308. lb. 267,
an Act granting lands to Indiana. lb. 312, an Act granting
lands to Illinois. lb. 305, an Act granting lands to Alabama. lb.
578, an Act granting to Cherokee County, Alabama, 150 acres
land in lieu of the "quarter section" allowed by law. lb. 377,
an Act granting lands to Florida. b. 31.5, an Act grqnting lands
to Illinois. b. 484, an Act granting lands to Arkansas. lb. 568,
an Act granting lands to Arkansas, and confirming certain illegal
selections made by Governor Pope, ib. p. 325.
The counsel then *argued that the location by the State was
irregular and void, for the following reasons:
1. Because "entire sections" were not taken throughout.
2. Because "fractions" were taken in part.
3. Because a slip, two miles in length, was taken off of two
"entire sections," thus making them fractional, and breaking up
the legal subdivisions.
4. By substituting quantity for nzetes and bounds, when by the
laws of the land the metes and bounds of four entire "sections"
were all the State was entitled to receive, whether they contained

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

71

Lessieur et al. v. Price.

2,566 acres or not. If this grant hail been of "sections" the
purpose would be manifest; but a grant of "four entire sections"
was enough to preclude the possibility of doubt as to the legislative intention. See 3 Howard, 660, where a survey made
in violation of a rule laid down for securing the proper subdivision of the public lands was pronounced void, as was also the
patent on said survey. See 7 Porter, R. 432; 6 Cowen, 722.
14. Should the defendant, however, succeed in establishing
the legality and necessity of a survey of the grant to the State,
he will still not be relieved of difficulty. The doctrine for which
he has contended- of appropriation of the land by survey--will
then be brought home to his own door. His survey not being
made till August, 1824, could not appropriate the land prior to
that time; and, not being approved till 1847, had no existence
as an official act till after the institution of his suit. The approval of said survey was the first entry on the books of any
officer of the land department, in relation to the State grant or
selections. The defendant has assumed the ground that the
State grant was to be located by a new survey, in like manner
as a new Madrid certificate; and that the plat of the survey was
the location. If he is right in this position, then two conclusions
follow. 1. That the State location was not made till after the
public sale. of all the lands surrounding it had taken place, and
was, of course, void by the terms of the grant. 2..That when it
was located, the land had been appropriated to Delisle, and the
location void for want of title in the United States.
15. If it shall be considered by the court that, although the
lands of Delisle, in lieu of which his New Madrid certificate was
issued, were destroyed, and the grant was consequently pure
donation to him, that, nevertheless, no title vested in him till his
deed to Dawson and Lessieur, in 1824, still the plaintiffs were
entitled to recover, the defendant not having shown any title in
himself. A title springing up in Delisle in 1842, was in time to
appropriate the land.
16. The act of the Legislature of Missouri, approved December 19, 1822, [1 Terr. Laws, p. 1018,] by which the tract patented
to Delisle was condemned to the public use, was not relied on
heretofore by the defendant as helping his case, and, I suppose,
will not be here.
31r. Leslie, for the defendant in error, contended that, under
the several acts, viz., of Congress, approved 6th March, 1820 ; an
ordinance of the Convention of Missouri, passed on 19th of
July, 1820, accepting the grant; an act of the General Assembly
of Missouri, approved November 16, 1820; an act of the General Assembly of Missouri, approved June 28, 1821; nothing more

72

SUPREME COURT.
Lessieur et al. v. Price.

was necessary than the mere passage of the acts to vest a title
in the State of Missouri.
The counsel then contended that Hempstead and Langham,
in their proceedings in making the location and obtaining the
certificate, were guilty of fraud on Delisle and on the government. On Delisle, because he was alive and had no knowledge
of their doings and gave no assent thereto; on the government,
because they sought to appropriate the public lands contrary to
the terms and meaning of the act of Congress for the benefit of
New Madrid sufferers.
The counsel then contended that the court erred in refusing
the first instruction asked by the defendant's counsel; that the
point contained therein was directly involved in the cases of
Basnell et al. v. Broderick, 13 Pet. 436; and Barry v. Gamble,
3 How. 51, and was decided by this court.
The counsel then contended that the court was, correct in
granting the second instruction asked for by the defendant's
counsel; that the act of Congress for the relief of the New
Madrid sufferers was not a mere donation of land, to which the
assent of Delisle might be implied ; but that it was an exchange
which could not be effectual until Delisle surrendered his injured
tract to the United States. Consequently an affirmative act on
his part was necessary before a title to the new location could
vest; and, therefore, no title vested in him until 1842, when he
assented to what had been done in his name. But before 1842,
the title of the State of Missouri had become complete.
Mr. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion of the court.
The first consideration arising in this case involves a matter of
practice. The suit was brought in a State Circuit Court of
Missouri, and tried by the court without the intervention of a
jury; when the judge ruled questions of law propounded to
him unfavorable to the plaintiffs, and gave judgment for the
defendant, to reverse which, a writ of error was prosecuted, and
the cause removed to the Supreme Court of that State. On a
rehearing there, only two of the judges were competent to preside; they disagreed in opinion, and a judgment of affimance
was entered because of that division. And the question here is,
how we are to treat fhe points ruled in the Circuit Court.
Our conclusion is, that the rulings of the circuit judge were
adopted and affirmed by the judgment rendered in the Supreme
Court, in like manner that they would have been had both
judges concurred in affirming the judgment on all the grounds
assumed by the court below: to hold otherwise, would be declaring that nothing had been decided in the State court of last
resort, and thereby a second writ of error to this couit would be
defeated.

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

73

Lessieur et al. v. Price.

Both sides claim title under acts of Congress; on a construction of these, and the facts calling for construction, the controversy throughout depends, and therefore, this court has unrestricted power to adjudge and conclude the controversy.
Plaintiffs claim title under a New Madrid certificate; and
the defendant under an act of Congress, granting to the State
of Missouri a tract of four sections, to the end -of locating the
seat of government on it; and the principal question presented
by the record is, which party first acquired such an interest in
the land as will, by the laws of Missouri, support an action of
ejectnient. The State law provides, that those claiming lands
by "New Madrid locations," may maintain actions of ejectment therefor.
The location must, of course, be 4n appropriation of the land, and its acquisition by the locator, with the
corresponding right to possess and enjoy it, as against the
United States; and the inquiry arises, what acts were required
on the part of the locator to divest the United States of title'
This depends on a true construction of the act of February
17, 1815, for the relief of the inhabitants of New -Madrid
county, who suffered by earthquakes. John Baptiste Delisle
was one of the sufferers, and on November 20th, 1817, a location certificate for tvo hundred arpens was obtained from the
Recorder of Land-Titles, authorizing Delisle to locate that quantity on any of *the public lands within Missouri Territory, the
sale of which was authorized by law.
The act declares, that such certificate having issued, the location shall be made on application of the claimant by the principal deputy-surveyor for said Territory, or under his direction,
whose duty it shall be to cause a survey thereof to be made, and
return a plat of the survey to the Recorder of Land-Titles, together with a notice in writing, designating the tract or tracts thus
located, and the name of the claimant on whose behalf the same
shall be made, which notice and plat, said recorder shall cause
to be recorded in his office. That it shall be the duty of the
recorder to transmit a report of claims allowed, and locations
made, under this act, to the Commissioner of the General Land.
Office; and he shall deliver to the party a certificate, stating the
circumstances of the case, and that he is entitled to a patent,
and on which a patent shall issue, &c.
The surveyor was required to make the location, and survey,
"on application of the claimant." On this requirement a practice naturally sprung up, of filing with the surveyor a notice of
location, describing the land that the claimant desired should be
surveyed for him, and with which request the surveyor complied,
unless some valid objection stood in the way, and rendered a
compliance improper.
VOL, Xii.

7

74

SUPREME COURT.
Lessieur et al. v. Price.

The notice of location, in this -instance, was delivered to the
Surveyor-General June 2d, 1821, for the land in dispute, and is
claimed as the inception of title and location in fact, within the
meaning of the State law, authorizing ejectments on New Madrid
locations. That it was the mere act of the party, not having the
asent of government, must be admitted. The act of Congress
provides,"" that, in every case where such location shall be made,
according to the provisions of this act, the title of the person
or persons to the land injured as aforesaid shall revert to, and
become absolutely vested in the United States. A concurrent
vestiture of title must have occurred. The injured land must have
vested in the United States at the same time that title was taken
by the new location. It was intended to be an exchange between the parties, and the inquiry arises, When did the United
States take title? Was it when application in writing was
made by the claimant to the surveyor to have his land located
and surveyed at a particular place? The warrant, or location
certificate, issued from the Recorder's office, and there it was
refurnable; there the plat and certificate were returned and recorded; that officer issued the patent certificate; in that office
the law required all official business to be transacted, and not in
the Surveyor's office. Thai the notice of location, and plat, and
certificate were recorded in the Surveyor's office is trvie, and it
was proper. It was not done, however, to the end of furnishing
evidence of title to the claimant, but to have evidence there to
show that the land was appropriated according to the New ladrid act, and for the convenience of the Surveyor's department.
The plain meaning of the law is as above stated, nor can its
import be changed by the practice pursued in the Surveyor's
offide ; there the claimant could not go for record evidence of his
location, binding the United States to an exchange of lands. He
could only refer to the Recorder's office. And what was the
character of the evidehce he had t9 rely on there? His entry
was to be made by the principail Surveyor, or under his direction. It was to consist of a plat of suney, and a certificate describing the land, with the name of the claimant for whom the
location by survey was made. This return the Recorder had to
examine, pass upon, and record; if the location and survey nad
been properly made, then the United States assented to the exchange, and not until then.
The danger of allowing aclaimant to locate a floating Warrant
at his own discretion, threatened the country with evils that had
afflicted some of the elder States. It would have been certain
to produce conflict of claims for the same land, to a material
extent, and been contrary to a settled policy of the United Stites
in disposing of the public lands, which was to avoid such con-

DECEM1BER TERM, 1851.

75

Lessieur et al. v. Price.

flict; and, therefore, the act of 1815 vested the power of locating
the claim in the principal Surveyor of the Territory.
We expressed our opinion as to what was a location of a New
Madrid claim in the case of Bagnell v. Broderick, (13 Peters,)
thirteen years ago; and did so again in Barry v. Gamble, (3
How. 51,) in 1845, nor would we have said any thing further on
the subject but for the division of opinion in the Supreme Court
of Missouri, which seems to call in question the opinion expressed in the cases referred to, as we understand the proceeding
there, on the ground that such expression of opinion was not
necessary to arrive at the decisions then made.
A second question on the merits arises bn the defendant's title,
and is so connected with the one just discussed, that the principles
governing it must be settled before a legal conclusion can be
arrived at which will govern the controversy.
On the 6th of March, 1820, Congress provided by law for the
admission of -the then Missouri Territory as a State of the Union, and among numerous other regulations to aid the new State
on coining in, it was enacted, "that four entire sections of land
be, and the same are hereby granted to the said State, for the
purpose of fixing the seat of government thereonl; which said
sections shall, under the direction of the Legislature of said State,
be located, as near as may be, in one body, at any time, in -such
townships and ranges as the legislature aforesaid may select,
on any of the public lands of the United States: Provided, that
such locations shall be made prior to the public sale of the lands
of the United States surrounding such location."
To secure the benefits of this donation the foll6wing steps
were taken by the State of Missouri:
1. An ordinance adopted by the convention convened to form
a constitution on the 19th of July, accepting the grant of land.
2. An act of the Legislature of the State providing for the
location of the permanent seat of government, approved 16th
November, 1820. This act appoints commissioners to settle a
site for the permanent seat of government, and requires them to
make their report at the next session of the General Assembly of
said State.
3. An act supplementary to the foregoing act, approved 28th
June, 1821. This act further extends the time of making their
report until the next session.
4. & joint resolution, also approved 28th June, 1821, requiring
the Governor of the State to notify the Surveyor-General for the
States of Illinois and Missouri, and @lso the-Register of the Land
Office in which the lands 'are selected, that the commissioners
appointed for that purpose ".have selected the fractional sections
six, seven, and eight, the entire sections seventeen and eighteen,

76

SUPREME

COURT.

Lessieur et al. v. Price.

and so much of the north part of sections nineteen and twenty
as will make four sections in fractional township forty-four
south of the Missouri River, in range No. 11 west, fifth principal meridian; and that he request the said Surveyor and Register
to withhold the same from sale or location, until the General
Assembly determine whether said selection be accepted by said
State."
5. An act of the General Assembly, entitled " An act fixing
the permanent seat of government," approved 01st December,
1821, the first section of which accepts the land above described
for the use and benefit of said State. The second section'provides for the laying out of a town thereon, and the third section
requires the Governor to notify the Surveyor-General of the
acceptance of said land by the General Assembly, for the permanent seat of government, by transinitting to him an authenticated copy of said act.
6. Also an act of the General Assembly, -entitled "An act
supplementary to the act fixing the permanent seat of government," approved 11th January, 1822. This act provides for the
laying "oufof a town on the land selected, authorizes the sale of
the lots in said town, and prescribes the terlns of said sale, and
requires the commissioners to make a report of their acts in this
It further provides
next Generalby Assembly.
to the
respect
that
proposals
any person or persons having
claim"any
to any
part of made
the said land,
selected for the permanent
seat
of government,
in order
that any claim or claims may be
adjusted,
shall by said
commissioners
be communicated to the
General Assembly."
These proceedings took place before the surrounding lands
were offered at public sale.
First,
is insisted
"that themade
location
wasperson
void because
never
wasit any
communication
by any
for the there
State
of Missouri to any officer of the inited States having power to
grant an pplication for, or allow any location of, said lands;
and that such lbation should have been eutered ad recorded in
the Register's office of the local land district."
The land was granted, by the act on 1820; it was a phresent
.'rant, wanting identity to make it perfect; and the legslature
was vested with full power to select, nd locate the land; and
we need only here say, what was substantially said, by this
court, in the case of Rutherford v. Green's heirs, (2 Wheat. 196,)
tbat the act of 1820 vested a title in the State of Missouri, of
four sections; and that the selection made by the State Legislature- oursuant to the act of Congress, and the notice given of
stwh location to the Surveyor-General, and the Register of the
local district where the land lay, ga-e precision to the title, and

DECEMBER

TER M,

1851.

77

Lessieur et al. v. Price.

attached to it the land selected. The United States assented to
this mode of proceeding; nor can an individual call it in question.
It is insisted, in the next place, that the location was void,
because fractional sections were selected, to make the quantity
of 2560 acres, embraced by the grant; that the law granted entire
sections, in a square form, and intended to exclude fractional
parts of sections; and as this controversy involved a fraction, no
title was taken by the State of Missouri.
This objection is plausible, but we think unsound. The whole
quantity was to be selected in one body as near as might be; the
object of the grant was a city site for a great political purpose;
that the seat of government would be established on the Missouri River was almost certain, a fact that could not have been
overlooked by Congress. To a metropolis, the river front was
absolutely necessary. If the land was selected adjoining the river,
fractions must of necessity be taken; and, therefore, the act of
Congress cannot be construed in the restricted sense contended
for without violating a leading object of grantor and grantee;
nor does it seem to have entered the mind of either, that a
selection of fractions violated the terms of the grant. From first
to last, for nearly thirty years, has the grantor acquiesced; nor do
we think that the validity of the selection can be called in question by an objection never set up by the United States.
The next inquiry is, as to the date when the land selected
attached to the grant. June 28, 1821, the Governor of MissoL.i
notified the Surveyor-General of the fact, that the land had been
located by the commissioners, and awaited the action of the
Legislature; and on the 31st day of December, 1821, the land
was accepted by the Legislature; the same act provides for laying off a town and the establishment of the seat of government
thereon. And as the commissioners had power to lou.ate, and
did so, subject only to legislative sanction of their rL-port, and
that report was sanctioned, our opinion is that the acts were
concurrent and that the title refers to the first act; and, therefore, that the State took title from the 28th of June, 1821, when
the urveyor-General was notified that the location had been
made. We stdte this as matter of principle, held in the case of
Lbndes v. Brant, decided at last term. It is not material, however, whether the date be the 28th of June, or 31st of December,
1821, when the Legislature acted. Delisle's location by survey,
was filed and recorded, in the Recorder's office, February 11,
1822 ; this is the first evidence of its legal existence appearing of
record, and on that day it took date. It follows, that the legal
title of Missouri, is elder than the equitable title set up under
Delisle's claim. This was in effect the opinion of the court
below, as appears by a refusal to give the 4th, 5th, 6th, 7th, 8th,
7*

SUPREME dOURT.
Lossiceur et al. v. Price.

9th, 10th, 11th. and 12th exposition of the law demanded by the
plaintifi ; and with which opinion we concur.
The next question raised and decided by the State courts
appears by the following exposition of the law, pronounced at
the request of the defendant, and on which the judgment also
proceeded:
"If John -B. Delisle, who was the owner of the land in the
County of New "Mdrid,in lieu of which the c~rtificate No. 347
ws issued,, until the year 1842, knew nothing of the issuing or
existence of said certificate, nor of notice, surveX, or patent
given in evidence by the plaintiffsi, and never assentd to the
same prior to that date; and if, prior to that date, the four seetions of Dand mentioned in the fourth proposition of the sixth
section of the act of Congress, approved March 6th, 1820, had
been located under the direction of the Legislature of this State
upon the premises in question, then no title passed to the said
Delisle, in or to said premises, as against the State of Missouri'
The evidence shows, that all the steps taken for th.e purpose
of obtaining a grant of land from the United States, in lieu of
land owned by John B. Delisle, lying in New Madrid County,
and which had been injured by earthquakes, were taken by
Langham and Hempstead, or at -their instance, they representing themselves to be the legal representatives of Delisle, and
without the consent, knowledge, or authority of Delisle, and
that what was done by them in his name did not receive his
sanction or assent until the year 1842. But it is insisted that
the law will imply his assent, as the grant was beneficial to
him. This might be a safe.irnplication if the grant had been a
pure donation unaccompanied with any condition; but such is
not the fact. The act of Congress for the relief of the inhabitants of New Madrid County, whose lands had been materially
injured by earthquakes, provides that, where locations are made
under ~the act, the title of the individual to the land injured
shall. revert to, and become absolutely vested in, the United
States. Instead, therefore, of its being a pure donation on the
part of the government, it was a proffered barter or exchange of
lands by legislative enactment. Where the value of the land
in New Madrid had been entirely destroyed, it might be regarded
as a donation of other land to the individual owner; but where
that was not the case, it could not be so considered. Now, it is
a well known fact, that much of the land exchanged with the
government under this law is this day of more intrinsic value
than the land located in lieu thereof. Where this is the case,
the government, instead of making a donation, has driven a proitable bargain. But the government i not chargeable with any

DECEMBER TERM,

1851.

79

Harris v. Runnels.

wrong in this transaction, because the owners of land in New
Madrid were not compelled to accept the provisions of the'act;
if they did so, it was a voluntary act on their part, and their
assent should be evidenced by some affirmative act done by
them.
There is, however, in this case, no ground for implication.
All presumption of assent is utterly excluded -by the evidence
of Delisle himself, who states that he was wholly ignorant of
the existence of the act of Congress on that subject until the
year 1842. He could not be divested of his land in New
Madrid until he assented to the exchange, and he could give no
assent until he was informed of the act of Congress making
provision for those whose land had been injured. The title,
then, to the land in New ladrid remained in Delisle up to the
year 1842, when he assented to what had been done by Langham and Hempstead in his name; and, as Congress only
intended to grant other land on condition that the title to the
land injured should revert 'to, and vest in the government, no
title could pass to Delisle until 1842, prior to which time the
State of Missouri had acqluired title to the land in controversy.
It is proper to remark that, on the last ground of defence, we
have adopted the views, in part, expressed by one of the judges
of the Supreme Court of Missouri, whose opinion is found in
the record.
Our conclusion is that, on both grounds of defence, the State
courts expounded the law applicable to the facts correctly, and
that therefore the judgment should be affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the Supreme Court of the State of Missouri, and
was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now
here ordered and adjudged by this court, that the judgment of
the said Supreme Court in this cause be, and the same is,
hereby affirmed, with costs.

JoHN L. IARRIS,

SURVIVING
IRAM

PARTNER OF ROWAN AND HARRIS, V.

G.

RUNNELS.

Where a defendant, when sued upon a note, set up, as a defence, that the note was
given for an illegal consideration, the whole statute must be examined in order
to di5cov,. r whether or not the legislature intended to prevent coturts of justice

from enftrcing contracts relating to the act prohibited.

