SUPREME COURT.
Teal v. Felton.

the burden was thrown upon the libellants to rebut the inference. It was accordingly assumed in this case, and evidence
produced as to the condition of the thread when packed at Paisley, and also in respect to the mode of conveyance from that
place to Liverpool, preparatory to the shipment. The explanation is as full perhaps as could be well furnished, or as is usual,
under the circumstances, and brings the case. down, we think,
to th6 question of damage occasioned by the effect of the hu.
midity and dampness of the vessel in the course of the voyage.
We have already expressed our views upon that question, the
result of which is that the decree must be reversed.
Mr. Chief-Justice TANEY and Mr. Justice WAYNE dissented.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District
of South Carolina, and wa5 argued by counsel. On consideration mhereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by
this lrt, that the decree of the said Circuit Court in this cause
be, and the same is hereby, reversed; with costs, and that this
cause be, and the same is hereby, remanded to the said Circuit
Court for further proceedings to be had -therein, in conformity
to the opinion of this court..

WILLIAI

W.

TEAL, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. MARY C. FELTON,
BY HER NEXT FRIEND, CHARLES T. HICKS.

The 13th and.30th sections of the act of Congress, passed in 1825, (4 Stat. at Large,
105-111,) forbid a writing or memorandum from being written on a newspaper, or
- other printed paper, pamphlet, or magazine, and transmitted by mail.
The Postmaster-General directed that if the wrappers of newspapers, pamphlets, or
.sagazines, should be found to contain any manuscript or memorandum of any
kind, either written or stamped, or marks or signs made in any way, by which information shall be asked or communicated, it should be charged with letterpottage.
The part of the order relating to marks or signs was not justified by the law.
Hence, where a postmaster refused to deliver a newspaper upon which there was an
"initial," unless the person to whom it was addressed would pay letter postage,
he was properly held liable in an action for trover. It was not a case calling for
discretion in the discharge of his duties. The law, and not the instructions of a
department, furnishes the guide to officers.
The State court had jurisdiction to try the case. State courts had jnrhdiction over
all cases of trover, and the Constitution of the United States did not abogate
their jurisdiction in such cases as 'the present.

Tins cast. was brought up from the Supreme Court of the

DECEM1BER TERM,

1851.

285

Teal v. Felton.

State of New York, by a writ of error, issued under the 25th
section of the Jddiciary Act.
Teal, the plaintiff in error, was postmaster in Syracuse, in the
State of New York, and the case arose in the following manner:
The 13th section of the act of 1825 (4 Stat. at Large 105,)
provided as follows: " Any memorandum which shall be written
on a newspaper, or other printed paper, pamphlet, or magazine,
and transmitted by mail, shall be charged with letter-postage."
And the 30th section of the same act (4 Stat. at Large, 111) provided as follows: "If any person shall inclose or conceal a letter
or other thing, or any memorandum in writing, in a newspaper,
pamphlet, or magazine, or in any package of newspapers, &c.,
C., or make any writing or memorandum thereon, which he
shall have delivered into any post-office, or to any person for that
purpose, in order that the same may be carried by post free of
letter-postage, he shall forfeit the sum of five dollars for every
such offence, and the letter, newspaper, package, memorandum,
or other thing shall not be delivered to the person to whom it is
directed, until the amount of single letter-postage is paid for
each articie of which the package is composed."
The act of 1845, sections 1, 2, and 16, fixes the rates of postage upon letters and newspapers, and defines a newspaper to be
"a printed publication issued in numbers, consisting of not more
than two sheets, and published at short intervals of not more
than a month, conveying intelligence of passing events, and the
bond fide extras and supplements of any such publication."
On the 4th of December, 1846, the Postmaster General issued
the following circular:
To Postmasters:
"I am directed by the Postmaster-General to call your special
attention to the multiplied and increasing attempts to violate
the laws and defraud the revenue, by writing on the wrappers,
margin, or other portion of newspapers, pamphlets, and magazines, sent by mail.
"The cheap postage system has removed every reasonable excuse for violating or evading the law, and too much vigilance
cannot be exercised by postmasters to detect and punish the
offenders; and public sentiment, when well informed, will not
fail to sustain you in the faithful discharge of this duty, which
is as imperative upon you as any other. That frauds of this
kind may be detected and traced to their origin, you are particularly instructed to stamp, or mark in writing, any transient
(by which is meant all not regularly sent to subscribers) newspapers, pamphlets, or magazines, with the name of the office
and the amount of postage.
"

286

SUPREME

COURT.

Teal v. Felton.

" The wrappers of all such newspapers, pamphlets, and magazines, when they have reached their destination, should be carefully removed, and it upon inspection found to contain any
manuscript or memorandum of any kind, either written or stamped, or by marks or signs made in any way, either upon any
newspapers, printed circular, price-current, pamphlet, or magazine, or the wrapper in which it is inclosed, by which information shall be asked for or communicated, except the name and
address of the person to whom it is directed, such newspaper,
printed circular, price-current pamphlet, or magazine, with the
wrapper in which it is inclosed, shall be charged with letterpostage by weight. If the person to whom the newspaper,
printed circular, price-current, pamphlet, or magazine is directed,
refuses to pay such letter-postage thereon, the postmas'er will
immediately transmit the same to the office from whence it was
forwarded, and request the postmaster thereof to prosecute the
same for the penalty of five dollars, as prescribed by the 30th
section of the act of 1825. Suits may be brought either in district courts, or before State magistrates having civil jurisdiction
in actions of debt, for this amount, under the respective State
laws; the name of the sender written or stamped either upon the
newspaper, printed circular, price-current, pamphlet, or magazine, or the wrapper in which it is inclosed, communicates such
information, as subjects it to letter-postage, and the consequential penalties if such postage is not paid at the place of its
destination. The diminution of the revenue of the Department
under the cheap postage system, and the great and increasing
demand for additional mail facilities throughout the country,
whose territory now extends to the Pacific, renders it absolutely
necessary, not only that every cent of lawful revenue be collected and accounted for, but that the utmost vigilance should
be exercised for the prevention of fraud, and the sure and speedy
infliction of the proper penalty upon the offender. This can
only be accomplished by the strictest attention of postmasters,
who are the sworn agents of the Department, and bound to see
the laws faithfully administered.
"W. J. BROWN,
" 2d Assistant Postmaster-General.
" Post Office Department, Dec'r 4, 1846."
In February, 1847, there came to the-post-office at Syracuse,
a newspaper, called the Iichigan Expositor, which was put
into the box of Mr. Hicks. There was an initial upon the
wrapper of the paper, distinct from the direction, and no part of
it, the initial being a single letter. In consequence of this, it
was charged with letter-postt ge, -which Mr. Hicks refused to

DECEMBER TERM,

1851.

287

Teal v. Felton.

pay, but tendered the newspaper postage. It was admitted that
Mr. Hicks had authority to demand the paper for lary C. Felton, to whom it was addressed, and that its value was six cents.
Hicks brought an action of trover against Teal, the postmaster, before a justice of the peace for Onondaga county, before
whom the question of jurisdiction was raised. The justice,
however, sustained his jurisdiction, and gaye judgment against
t'ie postmaster, (the cause being tried -by a jury) for six cents
damages and two dollars and eighty-nine cents costs.
A writ of certiorariremoved the cause to the Court of Common Pleas, in and for the county of Onondaga, which, at May
term, 1847, affirmed the judgment of the justice, with twentytwo dollars and ninety-five cents costs.
Teal then carried the case to the Supreme Court of the State
of New York, which, in June, 1848, approved the judgment of
the Court of Common Pleas, with thhty-seven dollars and sixty
cents additional costs, making, in the whole, sixty dollars .and
fifty-five cents.
This decision was reviewed by the Court of Appeals, who decided that there was no error in it; and gave judgment for
seventy-five dollars and sixty-four cents, making, in The ithole,
one hundred and thirty-six dollars and nineteen c&nts.
A writ of error, sued out by Teal, brought the case up to this
court.

It was argued by 1fr. Dillage, for the plaintiff in error, and
Mr. Seward, for the defendant in error.
The points made by Dillage were the following:
I. That the justice had no jurisdiction.
1. -Because the plaintiff in error acted under and by virtue of
the statutory laws -of the United States. Constitution U. S.
art. 1, sect. 8 ; Circular of the P. M. Gen. 1845 ; 3 Laws United
States by Story, 1990..
2. Because, if the action complained of was a violation of
duty, the right it violated never existed at common law, nor by
virtue of State Constitutions or laws. 2 Hildreth's History U.
8. 181; 9 Anne, c. 9; 15 Encyclopcelia Britannica, 424; 2 Hil,:eth's History U. S. 327 ; 9th art. of the Confederation; 4
Elliot's Deb. 354, 355; 3 Story's Com. sect. 1124; 3 Story's
Laws U. S. 2066, sect. 3.
3. Because the State courts possess no jurisdiction, but such
as they derived from the common lawi and under their own
State constitution and laws. Congtitution U. S. art. 3, sect. 1;
Martin v. Hunter, 1 Wheat. Ri. 330; United States v. Lathrop,
17 Johns. R. 8; 3 Story's Com. sect. 1749.
4. Because such jurisdiction would not only be a usurpation

288

SUPREM1E COURT.
Teal v. Felton.

of authority, but opposed to the policy of the general government. MeCullock v. The State of Maryland, 4 Wheat. R. 316;
Federalist, No. 80; Sturges v. Crowniinshield, 4 Wheat. 122;
Montesquieu, Esprit des Lois, -liv. 11, c. 61; 1 Toullier, Droit
Civil, c. 9, sect. 122. It would enable courts to adjudicate where
the legislative authority could not act. United States v. Bevans,
3 Wheat. R. 836'; United States v. Cornell, 2 Mason, R. 60; 3
Story's Com. stct. 1752; Wayman v.Southard, 10 Wheat.
R. 13.
5. Jurisdiction is not acquired by State courts, by reason of
those "courts hayilg jurisdiction in the kind of action in which
the suit is brought, if the remedy depends upon a statute law
peculiar to the United States general government. 17 Johns. R.
4 ; Gelston v. Hoyt, 3 Wheat. R. 246 ; United States v. Cornell,
2 Mason, R. 63; Slocum v. Mayberry, 2 Wheat. R. 1; Osborn
v. The Bank of The United States, 9 Wheat. R. 747.
6. Because the postmaster is alone subject to the control of
the power which created him its instrument. McClung v. Silliman, 6 Wheat. R. 598.
Finally. Because the authority of the general government
would not be supreme, if the courts of every State could vary
and regulate its officers- in the performance of their duties.
Cohens v. Virginia, 6 Wheat. 264; Federalist, No. 80.
II. The plaintiff in error, was an officer of the government,
and required by law to exercise his judgment in the performance of the duty the law imposed upon himu, in fixing the amount
of postage on the paper for which this action was brought.
Officers required by law to exercise their judgment are not
answerable for mistakes of law, or mere errors of judgment.
Drewe v. Colton, 1 East, R. 563 in note; Seaman v. Patten, 2
Caines, R. 312; Jenkins v. Waldron, 11 Johns. R. 114; Weaver
v. Devendorf, 3 Denio, 117; Kendall v. Stokes, 3 How. 97;
Opinions of the Attor. Gen. 1018, vol. 2.
Mr.Seward, for defendant in error, made the following points:
I. The justice had jurisdiction. Wilson v. Mackenzie, 7
Hill, R. 95. See also case, Opinion of Justice Gridley, 43-46;
Bruen v. Ogden, 6 Halstead, 370, 377, 379, 381; Story on
Agency, sect. 319, 319 a, 319 b, 320, 221, 322; Cowp. 754;
1 Kent's Com. 386.
II. The only question in the case upon the merits was
one of fact; and the jury having found for the plaintiff in the
court below, the court will not disturb the verdict. 18 Wend.
R. 141; 1 Hill R. 61; 2 J. R. 378; 3 J. R. 435-439. See also
Opinion of Justice Gridley-in the case, 46, 53. See also the

DECEMBER
Teal

TERM, 1851.

v. Felton.

Opinion of Wright, judge, in the Court of Appeals, on the decision of this case, Teal v. Felton, 1 Comst. R. 537-649, and the
authorities cited by the judge.
Mi. Justice WAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
This suit was brought in a justices' court to recover from the
plaintiff in error the value of a newspaper, received by him as
postmaster at Syracuse, which he refused to deliver to the defendant in error to whom it was addressed. The plaintiff in
error had charged the newspaper with letter-postage, on account
of a letter or initial upon the wrapper of it, distinct from the
direction. This the defendant refused to pay, at the same time
tendering the lawful postage of a newspaper. The postmaster
would not receive it, and retained the paper against the will of
the defendant; upon that demand and refusal the suit was
brought. The actiort was trover, and the general issue was
pleaded. In the course of the trial when the defendant in error,
who was plaintiff in. the suit below, was introducing testimony
in support of his case, the7 defendant objected to a further examination of the case by witnesses, upon the ground that the court
had not jurisdiction of the case. The objection having been
overruled, the trial of the case was continued; and after the
plaintiff had proved that he demanded from the defendant thenewspaper, tendering the lawful postage, and that the postmaster refused to deliver it to him, he rested his case.
The defendant below then moved for a nonsuit, which having
been denied, he offered in evidence a circular from the Post-Office
Department of the 4th December, 1846, marked in the record as
A, and also the Post-Office act of 1845. The case wag submitted to a jury. A verdict was rendered by it against the defendant, upon which a judgment was entered. The defendant
carried the case to the Court of Appeals, and the judgment of
the lower court was affirmed. It is brought to this court by a
writ of error. As the Court of Appeals could not have adjudicated the case without having denied to the defendant a defence
which he claimed under a law of the United States, the case is
properly here under the 25th section of the Judiciary Act of 1789.
The circular from the Post-Office Department is as follows:
"The wrappers of all such newspapers, pamphlets and magazines, when they'have reached their destination, should be carefully removed; and if upon inspection they are found to contain
any manuscript or memorandum of any kind, either written or
stamped, or by marks or signs made in any way, either.upon any
newspaper, &c.,.&c., or the wrapper upon which it is inclosed,
by which information shall be asked or communicated, except
the name of the person to whom it is directed, such newspaper,.
VOL. XIL

25

SUPREME COURT.
Teal v. Felton.

&c., &c., -withthe wrapper in which it is inclosed shall be charged with letter-postage by weight."
If the person to whom the newspaper is directed, refuses to
pay the letter-postage, the postmaster is directed to transmit the
same to the office whence it came, with a request that the person
who sent it may be prosecuted for the penalty of five dollars,
according to the 30th section of the act of 1825. Those parts
of the 30th section mentioned, upon which the circular was
issued, and of the 13th section of the act directing that a
memorandum which shall be written on a newspaper, shall be
charged with letter-postage are: "If any person shall inclose or
conceal a letter or other thing, or any memorandum in writing
in a newspaper, pamphlet or magazine, or in any package of
newspapers, &c., &c., or make any writing or memorandum
thereon, which he shall have delivered in any post-office or to
any person for that,purpose, in order that the same may be carried by post, free of letter-postage, he shall 5orfeit the sum of five
dollars for every such offence, and the letter, newspaper, package,
memorandum or other thing, shall not be delivered to the person
to whom it is directed until the amount of single letter-postage
is paid for each article of which the package is composed. That
part of the 13th section of the act mentioned is: "Any memorandum which shall be written on a newspaper or other printed
paper, pamphlet or magazine, and transmitted by mail, shall be
charged with letter-postage." 4 Laws of the United States,
105-111. Those parts of the law of 1845, in any way applicable to this case, are the 1st and 2d sections fixing the rates of
postage upon letters and newspapers, and the 16th section, which
defines a newspaper to be a printed publication issued in numbers, consisting of not more than two- sheets, and published at
short intervals of not more than a month, conveying intelligence
of passing events, and the bond fide extras and supplements of
any such publication. 5 U. S. L. 732,737.
From the evidence in this case, we do net think that the iiitial or letter upon the wrapper of the newspaper in this case,
subjected it either under the 13th or 30th section of the act of
1825 to letter-postage. Why it was placed there, supposing it
not to havebeen accidental, cannot be found out from this record,
and it must nave been a meaningless mark to the postmaster.
It may have excited a suspicion, that it was a sign arranged
between the person sending it and the person to whom it was
directed, to convey iniformation of some sort or other, for which
letter-postage would have been charged, if it had been conveyed
in words. The act forbids a memorandum in the 13th section;
and in the 30th, providing for a penalty, the terms are," any writing or memorandum," but in neither are found, the terms "marks

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

291

Teal v. Felton.

or signs," as used in the circular. No provision is made for such
a case. It must be obvious too, that frauds of that kind cannot
be prevented in the transmission of newspapers, -without legislation by Congress, subjecting newspapers conveyed by mail to
letter-postage, whenever there shall be, either upon the news-paper or the wrapper of it, any letter, sign, or mark, besides the
address of the person to whom it is sent. A single letter or initial upon the wrapper of a newspaper, is neither a memorandum
nor a writing in the sense in which either of those terms are
ordinarily used, or as we think they were intended to be used in
the 30th section of the act. Both mean something in words to
convey intelligence, a remerxbrance for one's self or to another.
The act speaks of something concealed in a newspaper or package of newspapers, of a writing or memorandum, from which it
may be seen to have been the intention of the sender to convey
information clandestinely under the wrapper, or upon it in a form,
though not disclosing what it is, which will leave no doubt of
his intention. The initial in this case does not seem to have
been one 6r the other It is not a memorandum certainly, and
a single letter of the a:phabet can convey no other idea than that
it belongs to it, unless it is used numerically. This was -not a
case in which judgment coul .be used to deternine any fact,
except by some other evidence than the letter itself. Nor was it
one calling for discretion in the legal acceptation of that term in
respect to officers who are called upon to discharge public duties.
What was done by the, postmaster, was a mere act of his own,
and ministerial, as that is understood to be, distinct from judicial.
It could not have been the intention of Congress to put it in the
power of postmasters, upon a mere suspicion raised by a single
letter or initial, to arrest the transmission of newspapers from
the presses issuing them, or when they were mailed by private
hands.
This view of the law, disposes also of that point in the argument, claiming for the postmaster an- exemption from the suit
of the plaintiff, upon the ground that he was called upon, in the
act which he did, to exercise discretion and judgment. In Kendale -v. Stokes, 3 How. 97,98, will be found this court's exposition
upon that subject, with the leading authorities in support of it
The lifference between the two, must at all times be determined
by the law underi which an officer is called upon to act, and by
the character of the act. It is the law which gives the justification, and nothing less than the law can give irresponsibility to
the^ officer, although he may be acting in good faith under the
instructions of his superior of the department to which he belongs. Here the instructions exceed the law, as marks and signs
of themselves, without some knowledge of their meaning, and

292

SUPREME

COURT.

Teal v. Felton.

the intention in the use of them, are, as we have said, neither
memoranda nor writings. Tracy v. Swartwout, 10 Pet. 80.
But it is said that the courts of New York had not jurisdiction to try the case. The objection may be better answered by
reference to the laws of the United States, in respect to the services to be rendered in the transmission of letters and newspapers by mail, and by the Constitution -of the United States, than
it can by any general reasoning upon the concurrent.civil jurisdiction of the courts of the United States, and the courts of the
States, or concerning the exclusive jurisdiction given by the
Constitution to the former.
The United States undertakes, at fixed rates of postage, to convey letters and newspapers for those to whom they are directed,
and the postage may be prepaid by the sender, or be paid when
either reach their destination, by the person to whom they are
addressed. When tendered by the latter or by his agent, he has
the right to the immediate possession of them, though he has not
had before the actual possession. If then they bewrongfully withheld for a charge of unlawful postage, it is a conversion for
which suit may be brought. His right to sue existing, he may
sue in any court having civil jurisdiction of such a case, unless
for some cause the suit brought is an exception to the general
jurisdiction of the court. Now the courts in New York. having
jurisdiction in hover, the case in hand can only be excepted
om it by such a -,ase as this having been made one of exclusive jurisdiction in the courts of the United States, by the Constitution of the United States. That such is not the case, we
cannot express our view better than Mr. Justice Wright has
done in his opinion in this case in the Court of Appeals. After
citing the 2d section of the 3d article of the Constitution, he adds,
"thisis a mere grant of jurisdiction to the federal courts, and limits
the extent of their power, but without words of exclusion or any
attempt to oust the State courts of concurrent jurisdiction in any
of the specified cases in which concurrent jurisdiction existed
prior to the adoption of the Constitution. The apparent object
was not to curtail the powers of the State courts, but to define
the limit of those granted to the federal judiciary." We will
add, that the legislation of Congress, immediately after the Constitution was carried into operation, confirms the conclusion of
the learned judge. We find, in the 25th section of the Judiciary
Act of 1789, under which this case is before us, that such a concurrent jurisdiction in the courts of the States and of the United
States was contemplated, for its first provision is for a review of
cases adjudicated in the former, "where is drawn in question,
the validity of a treaty or statute of, or an authority exercised
under the United States, and the decision is against their valid-

DECEMBER TERM,

1851.

293

Achison v. Huddleson.

ity." We are satisfied that there was no error in the decision
of the Court of Appeals in this case, and the same is affirmed by
this court.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Supreme Court of the State of New York, and
was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now
here ordered and adjudged, by this court, that the judgment of
the Court of Appeals of the said State of New York in this
cause, and as remitted to the said Supreme Court be, and the
same is hereby affirmed, with costs.

JAMES C.

AcHISON, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. JONATHAN HUDDLESON.

Under an act passed by the State of Maryland, and an assent given to it by Congres', no toll .ould be levied, for passing over the Cumberland Road, upon coaches
which carried the United States mail.
In 1843,the Legislature of Maryland passed an act imposing a toll upon all passengers in moil-Loaches, and if it were not paid, a toll of one dollar for each coach for
every time that it passed over the road.
The toll upo. passengers in mail-coaches was inconsistent with the compact made
between Maryland and Congress, and therefore void.
And the toll per coach, of one dollar, is more properly a comitutation of tolls than a
penalty, and therefore void also.

THis case was brought up from the Court of Appeals of Maryland, by a writ of error issued under the 25th section of the
Judiciary. Act.
It was originally a suit brought in the County Court of Alleghany County, in 11Iarvland, by Jonathan Huddleson, superintendent of that part of the United States Road within the limit§
of the State of Maryland, against Stockton, Falls, Moore, and
Achison, trading under the firm and style of Stockton, Falls &
Co., who were the contractors for carrying the mail across the
Alleghany Mountains.
The acts of Congress and of the States through which the
Cumberland Road passes, were set forth in 3 How. 151, 720. A
brief summary is all that is now required:
In 1832, the State of Maryland passed an act relative to the
Cumberland Road, proposing to collect certain tolls upon it for
the purpose of kedping it in repair. This act contained the fol-

lowing:I

