DECEMBER TERM, 1851.
Williams, Trustee, v. Oliver et

al.

deemed to be so without the use of the usual words of limitation.
Newhall v. Wheeler, 7 Mass. R. 189; Stearns v. Palmer, 10
let. R. 32; Gould v. Lamb, 11 Met. R. 84; Fisher v. Fields,
10 Johns. R. 505; Welch v. Allen, 21 Wend. R. 147. As, the
execution of the trust required the trustees to have a fee-simple,
in order to cdnvey one, we are of opinion that the deed to them
conveyed a fee, and consequently we cannot infer that the State
Court decided that only a life estate passed by the deed.
The opinion of the court is, that the judgment of the court
below should be reversed, and the cause remanded for another
trial to be had therein.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the, Supreme Court of the State of Indiana, and was argued
by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and
adjudged by this court, that the judgment of the said Supreme
Court in this cause be, and the same is hereby reversed, with
costs; and that this cause be, and the same is hereby, remanded
to the said Supreme Court for further proceedings to be had
therein, in conformity to the opinion of this court.

NATHANIEL WILLIAMS, AS PERMANENT TRUSTEE FOR THE CREDITORS OF JAMES WILLIAMS, AN

INSOLVENT

DEBTOR, PLAINTIFF

IN ERROR, V. CHARLES OLIVER, ROBERT AL GIBBES, ANP
THOMAS OLIVER, EXECUTORS OF ROBERT OLIVER, AND JOHN
GLENN, AND DAVID M. PERINE, TRUSTEES.
In 1 &39 a treaty was made between the United States and Mexico, providing for the

"adjustment of claims of citizens of the United States on the Mexican Republic"
Under this treaty a sum of money was awarded to be paid to the members of the
Baltimore Mexiean Company, who had subscribed money to fit out an expedition
against Mexico, under General Min, in 1816. See the case of Gill v. Oliver's
nxeeutors, 11 Howard, 529.

The proeecds of one of the shares of this company were claimed by two parties; one
as being the second permanent trustee of the insolvent owner of the share, and the
other as being the assignee of the first permanent trustee.
The Court of Appeals of Maryland decided that the plaintiff, viz., the second permanent trustee, did not take the claim under the insolvent laws of Maryland.
This decision is not reviewable by this court, under the 25th section of the Judiciary
Act; and the ease is similar to that of Gill v. Oliver's EVeeutors, 11 Howard, 529.
Nor does jurisdiction accrue in this case in consequence of the additional fact that
the Legislature of Maryland passed a law curing certain defects in the assignment
to Oliver, the validity of which law was drawn into question, as impairing the

obligation of a contract; because, if there had been no such law, the decision of
the State court would have been the same.

112

SUPREME COURT.
Williams, Trustee, v. Oliver et a.

The former decisions of this court respecting its jurisdiction under the 25th section
of the Judiciary Act, examined and explained.

THIS case was brought up from the Court of Appeals of
Maryland, by a vrit of error issued under the 25th Section of
the Judiciary Act.
It was a branch of the case of Gill v. Oliver's Executors, reported in 11 Howard, 529, although it differed from that
case in some particulars, which will be mentioned. The history
of the Baltimore Mexican Company was given in the report of
that case, and need not be repeated.
James Williams was the owner of one of the shares of the
company, and applied for the benefit of the Insolvent Laws of
Maryland on the 24th of June, 1819. George Winchester was
appointed provisional trustee, and gave bond as such; and
James Williams conveyed and assigned to him, as provisional trustee, all his property whatever for the benefit of his
creditors. On the 2d of August, 1819, Winchester executed a
bond without security, reciting that he had been appointed permanent trustee, and the bond was conditioned for the faithful
performance of his duties as such
The laws of Maryland
required security to be given when such a bond was executed.
At March term, 1825, Baltimore County Court passed the
following order: "In Baltimore County Court, March Term, 1825.
"In the case of James Williams, an Insolvent Debtor:
"Ordered by the court, that the trustee dispose of any part of
the personal estate of the said insolvent debtor remaining unsold at public or private sale, as he may judge best.
" Wk. H. WARD,"
On the 2d of, April, 1825, Winchester assigned to Robert
Oliver the share in the Mexican Company belonging to Williams, and signed a receipt for $2,000 as the consideration for
the sale.
Winchester having died, Nathaniel Williams, the plaintiff in
error, Was appointed permanent trustee oZ James Williams, the
insolvent, on the 15th of November, 1841, and gave bond with
security, as required by law.
In the report of the case of Gill v. Oliver's Executors, it was
stated in what manner the money came into the hands of Glenn
and Perine as trustees, and how it came to be deposited in
court for claimants to make out their title.
On the 29th of January, 1842, Nathaniel Williams filed his
petition, claiming the amount which belonged to the share of his
insolvent, James Williams.

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.
Williams, Truste,

v. Oliver

113

et al.

On the 9th of March, 1842, the Legislature of Maryland
passed an act KDecember Session, 1841, chapter 309,) entitled
"An act to confirm the titles of purchasers in the cases therein
mentioned;" which act was passed on the memorial of Oliver's
representatives, and was alleged to cure the defects resulting
from Winchester's assignrm~ent without his having given security
upon his bond as permanent trustee.
On the 2d of May, 1842, the executors of Oliver and the trustees filed their answer to the petition of Nathaniel Williams.
They claimed the share of James Williams on two grounds:
1st, under the purchase from Winchester; 2d, because the
award of the commissioners was a full and complete bar of all
right and title on the part of Nathaniel Williams.
On the 5th of December, 1846, Baltimore County Court decreed in favor of the execufors of Oliver, holding the Xct of 1841
to be constitutional. On the second point the-court decided
that the award of the commissioners was not conclusive.
Williams prosecuted an appeal to the Court of Appeals of
Maryland.
At June term, 1843, the Court of Appeals affirmed the decree
of the County Court, three judges sitting. One of them, Judge
MIARTIN,

filed the following reasons, viz.:

I think that George Winchester is to be considered, upon the
facts exhibited in this record,, as duly and legally appointed the
permanent trustee of James Williams; that the sale by him of
the shares in controversy to Robert Oliver, was fairly and bonat
fide made within the meaning of the act of Assembly of 1841,
ch. 309; and that that statute being, in my opinion, neither
repugnant to the Constitution of the United States nor the Constitution of the State of Maryland, is to [be] regarded as a valid
exercise of legislative power.
The other twp judges, viz., Chief Justice DoRs.Y and Judge
SPENCE, stated that the grounds upon which they affirmed
the judgment were, first, the reasons assigned by the majority
of this court for the reversal of the decree in Oliver's Executors
et al. v. Gill, Permanent Trustee of Goodwin; and because, under
the proceedipngs based on, or originating from, the insolvent petition of James Williams and the act of Assembly applicable
thereto, Robert Oliver acquired a valid title to all the interest
of said James Williams in the fund in controversy.
The reasons assigned by the majority of the court for the
reversal of the decree in Oliver's Executors et al. v. Gill, and
which are adopted as above and made part of the rfasons for the
decision given in the present case of Williams, Trusted, v. Oliver's Executors, were published in the report of the case of Gill
v. Oliver's Executors, in 11 How. 529. They are here repeated:
10"

SUPREME

COURT.

Williams, Trustee, v. Oliver, et al.

"The majority of this court, who sat in the trial of this cause,
(and by which was decreed the reversal of the decree of the
County Court,) at the instance of the solicitors of the appellees,
briefly state the following as their reasons for such reversal:
They are of opinion that the ?ntire contract, upon which the
claim of the appellees is founded, is so fraught with illegality
and turpitude as to be utterly null and void, and conferring no
rights or obligations upon any of the contracting parties, which
can be sustained or countenanced by any court of law or equity
in this State or of the United States. That it has no legal or moral
obligation to support it, and that, therefore, under the insolvent
laws of Maryland, such a claim does not pass to or vest in the
trustee of an insolvent petitioner. It forms no part of his property or estate, within the meaning of the leislative enactments
constituting our insolvent system. It bears no analogy to the
cases decided in Maryland, and elsewhere, of claims not recoverable in a court of justice, which, nevertheless, have been held to
vest in the trustees of an insolvent or the assignees of a bankrupt.
In the cases referred to, the claims, as concerned those asserting
them were, on their part, tainted by no principle of illegality or
immorality; on the contrary, were sustained by every principle
of national law and natural justice, and nothing was wanting to
render them recupbrable but a judicial tribunal competent to
take cognizance thereof. Wholly dissimilar is the claim before
us. Such is its character, that it cannot be presented to a court
*ofjustice but by a disclosure of its impurities; and if any thing is
conclusively settled, or ought to be so regarded, itis that a claim,
thus imbued with illegality and corruption, will never be sanctioned or enforced by a court either of law or equity.
"Entertaining this view of the case, it. is unnecessary to examine the various minor points which were raised in the argument beforeus:'
These -reasons, as has been before remarked, are made applicable to the present case of Williams v. Oliver's Executors.
Williams sued out a writ of error and brought his case up to
this court.
It was argued by Mr. Dulany and 31r. &hley, for the plaintiff
in error, and 14r. Campbtll and Mlfr. Johnson, for the defendants
in error.
The counsel for the plaintiff in erro contended for the following positions:
1. The record prusent§ a case, within the appellate jurisdiction
of this court, under the provisions of the 25th section of the
Judiciary Act.

DECEMBER

TERM, 1851.

115

Williams, Trustee, v. Oliver, et al.

In support of the jurisdiction claimed, two grounds were assumed: 1st. The effect of the treaty with Mexico, and the effect
of the act of Congress of the 12th of April, 1840, and the effect
of the award, as establishing the amount and validity of the
claim of the Mexican Company of Baltimore, were all necessarily involved in the decision of the case, if the decree is to be
considered as based, in any degree whatever, on the imputed
turpitude of the contract of said company with General Mina:
2d. The validity of the act of the General Assembly of Maryland,
(act of 1841, ch. 309,) wqs drawn in question, on the ground of
its alleged repugnancy to the Constitution of the United States,
and its validity was maintained by the Court of Appeals. The
follow ing authorities were relied on: Crowell v. Randell, 10 Pet.
392, and the various cases referred to, and commented on, in the
opinion in that case; Scott v. Jones, 5 How. 376, and the cases
cited in the opinion in that case; Smith v. Hunter, 7 How. 744.
2. The imputed turpitude in the original contract of said
Mexican Company with General Mina, even if such turpitude
at any time attached to the contract, was not a ground which the
Court of Appeals was at liberty to assume as the basis of their
said decree. In doing so, they refused to give effect to an award
based on the said treaty and said act of Congress. The right
to receive the money was conclusively established. The only
open question properly before that court was this, Who was entitled to the share accruing in right of said insolvent? The
following authorities were relied on: Comegys v. Vasse, 1
Pet. 193; Frevall v. Bache, 14 Pet. 95; De Valangin's adm'rs.
v.
VDuff,
14 Pet. 291.
3. Apart from this notion of original turpitude, the claim
vested in the permanent trustee of the insolvent, for the benefit
of his creditors. Plater v. Scott, 6 Gill & Johns. 119; Stbvens
v. Ba gvell, 15 Ves. 139; ComegYs v. Vasse, 1 Pet. 193; Wheat.
International Law, 56-63.
4. Independently of the act of 1841, the representatives of
Robert Oliver had no right to this share, which could have been
enforced in any tribunal of law or equity. The Insolvent Laws
of Maryland, and particularly the act of 1808, chap. 71, sec. 3;
Winchester, Trustee of Williams, v. Union Bank, 2 Gill & J.
73; Winchester, Trustee of Gooding, v. Union Bank, Id. 79;
Glasgow v. Sands, 3 Id. 96; Glenn v. Karthaus, 4 Id. 385;
Kennedy v. Boggs, 5 H. & J. 408; Brown v. Brice, 2 H. & G.
24; Williams v. Ellicott, 6 H. & J. 427.
5. The act of 1841, chap. 309, is repugnant to the tenth section of the first article of the Constitution of the United States.
It is a law which, in its application to this case, impbirs the obligation of a contract.

116

SUPREME
Williams,

COURT.

Trustee, v. Oliver et al.

In the discussion of this point, it was insisted that it impairs
the obligation of.the original contracts of the insolvent with his
various creditors; that it impairs the obligation of the bond
given by Mr. Winchester as provisional tr.ustee; that it impairs
the rights of creditors, as cesttis que trust, and the rights of the
plaintiff in error as permanent trustee, under the deed of trust to
as
Mr. Winchester, as provisional trustee; that it also impairs,
to the creditors, the obligation Qf the bond of the plaintiff'in error
as permanent trustee. It will also be insisted that the plaintiff
in error, on his appointment as permanent trustee, and his qualification, by filing an approved bond, became entitled by law to
his commission on the assets composing the estate of the insolvent, and which vested in him, on his qualification as permanent trustee, and also deprived him of his right to allowance
out of said estate, for ihis necessary disbursements; and that
such, his right, is based on contract, within the true interpretation of the said section of said article of the Constitution; and
that said act, as to him, is unconstitutional and void, as it does
not save his commission nor make provision for payment of his
disbursements. In the discussion of this point, the following
authorities were relied on: Bronson- v. Kinzie, 1 How. 311;
Green v. Biddle, 8 Wheat. 1; McCracken v. Hayward, 2 How.
608;, Gantley's Lessee v. Ewing, 3 How. 707; Cook v. Moffatt,
5 How. 295; Planters' Bank v. Sharp, 6 How. 318, and the cases
cited in the opinion in that case; 12 Wheat. 311, 312; Rogers
v. Wright, 9 G. & J. 184.. The following cases were referred to
for illustration, and as 'showing, by analogy, the rights which
attached to the claims of creditors on the application of the in,
solvent: Scott v. Jones, 4 Clarke & Fin. 397, 398; Freake
v. Cranefield, 3 Mylne & Craig, 499, and in 14 Eng. Cond. Ch.
Rep. 500; Welh v. Stewart, 2 Bland, Ch. Rep. 41; Post v.
Mackall, 3 Id. 498.. It was also insisted, in the discussion of
this point, that the said act, in its application to this case, impaired the obligation of the contract of sale made by said insolvent, before his application, to the firm of Stump & Williams,
of the one half of his said share; and that the said act, as to the
representatives of Stump & 'illiams, is unconstitutional and
void. Mitford v. Mitford, 9 Ves. 87, and notes; 'Wright v. lorley, 11 Ves. 17; Dyer v. Pearson, 3 Barn. & Cress. 38, in 10
Eng. C. L. Rep. 13; 2 Story's Eq. Jur. § 1411, 1038, 1040 b,
1044; E. & S. Kip v. The Bank of New York, 10 Johfis. 63;
Muir v. Schenck, 3 Iill, 228.
The counsel for the defendant, in error presented the following
points:
1st. The decisio4 below turns upon two grounds, each of

DEOEMBER TERM, 1851.
Williams,

Trustee, v. Oliver et al.

which is conclusive of the case, and the second, to wit, that
c"under the proceedings based on or originating from the insolvent petition of Williams and the act of Assembly applicable
thereto, Oliver acquired a valid title to all the interest of James
Williams in the fund in controversy," resting upon the conjoint
operation of the sale made by order of court and the act of Assembly, is not subject to revision here, because the effect of the
sale so made was exclusively for the court below, and it does
not appear to what extent that consideration affected the decree
of the Court of Appeals.
2. The petition of the plaintiff in error does not specially
set up or claim any right or title under the convention with
Mexico, or the act of Congress, or the award made in pursuance
of them, nor does the court below decide against any such
right or title. The petition denies the title of Oliver's executors, and rests its demands on the official character of the plaintiff in error, as giving him title under the insolvent laws of
Maryland, and on the trusts of the deed of the 8th May, 1841,
as constituting them trustees for him being so entitled, and the
decision of the State court turns altogether on its construction
of those insolvent laws, which confer, in its judgment, no title
on the plaintiff in error. Udell v. Davidson, 7 How. 771;
Smith v. Hunter, 7 How. 743; Maney v. Porter, 4 How. 55;
McDonogh v. -Millaudon, 3 How. 705; Downes v. Scott, 4
How. 502; Kennedy v. Hunt, 7 How. 593; Fulton v. McAffee,
16 Pet. 149; Coons v. Gallagher, 15 Pet. 18; McKenney v. Carroll, 12 Pet. 66; Crowell v. Randell, 10 Pet. 392; Montgomery
v. Hernandez, 12 Wheat. 129; Williams v. Norris, 12 Wheat.
117; Hickie v. Stark, 1 Pet. 98; Mathews v. Zane, 7 Wheat.
206; Owings v. Norwood, 5 Cranch, 344; Smith v. the State
of Maryland, 6 Cranch, 286; Plater v. Scott, 6 Gill & Johns.
116; Hall v. Gill, 10 Gill & Johns. 325; 1 U. S. Stat. at Large,

384.
3. The decision of the State court, that Williams's claim
did not pass to his permanent trustee on account of its illegality and turpitude, does not conflict with the award, or the treaty
or act of Congress under which the award was passed, because
the comrmissionerswere empowered to decide nothing but the
liability of Mexico for the claims set up against that republic,
which were admitted by Mexico prior to the treaty, but long
after Williams's application; and because the said convention
or treaty of 1839 and the proceedings under it cannot affect
the question, whether the insolvent laws of Maryland did or
did not operate in 1819 to transfer the claim to the trustee of
Williams, the force and effect of these laws at the time when
Williams applied, being the question before the court below.

118

SUPREME
Williams,

COURT.

Trustee, v. Oliver et al&.

Comegys v. Vasse, 1 Pet. 212; Sheppard v. Taylor, 5 Pet. 713;
Frevall v. Bache,' 14 Pet. 97; Maryland Acts of 1805, ch. 110,
and 1816, ch. 221; Hall v. Gill, 10 Gill & Johns. 325.
4. IBy the well-settled law of Maryland, as applicable to
Williams's and all other applications for the benefit of the
insolvent laws at that period, (1819,) the plaintiff in error, as
trustee of Williams, under his application, took title to no property, rights, or claims of Williams, the insolvent, but such as
he had at the date of his application. At that period, Williams
had no possible right or claim against the government of
Mexico, which did not come into existence for several years
afterwards, nor against the then existing government of Spain
in Mexico, which Mina's expedition was designed to overthrow;
and the only alleged or possible claim he, (Williams,) then had
was against Mina, under Mina's contract with the Mexican
Company; and this contract with Mina, as the State court has
declared, by its decision, was illegal, and created no right or
claim in Gooding which could or did pass to his trustee under
his said application in 1819. The decision of the State Court,
therefore, involved but two questions, the first of which was,
whether said contract with Mina vested any rights in Williams,
at the date of his application in 1819, which passed to his trustee; and the second, whether the treaty and award, allowing
as against Mexico the claim of the Mexican Company, under its
said contract with Mina, had any such operation or retrospect,
as to that contract, as to validate it in Maryland as between the
original parties, and to validate it ab initio, so as to vest in the
trustee by retroactive rights and claims under that contract,
which had no legal existence at the period of Williams's application. The first question the defendants in error*will maintain, is conclusively established by the decision of the State
court, and is not open to inquiry here, as it involves nothing
but the decision of the Maryland Court upon a Maryland contract, as to the *rights created by it, and the transfer of those
rights, in 1819, to the trustee of the insolvent. The second, and,
as the defendants will maintain, the only possible' question open
here, will be as to the operation of the treaty and award. And,
as the State court has not expressed any specific opinion as to
the treaty, or any right or title set up or claimed under it, the
jurisdiction can only be maintainfed, if at all, by establishing
that. such a right or title was involved In the decision of the
question, and that the treaty did so retroact as to validate said
contract, ab initio, and vest in the trustee of 1819 the rights
given by that contract, which rights, so Vested in the trustee, the
decision'of the State court denied him. - And the defendants
in error will maintain that, even if there be any such right, title,

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

119

Williams, Trustee, v. Oliver et al.

or privilege specially set up or claimed under the treaty, as to
gI e jurisdiction, which they deny, yet the treaty could not have,
and was not intended to have, any such operation or retrospect.
They will insist that the treaty and award under it had .and
could have no other effect than to establish the liability of
Mexico to pay that claim under the treaty, and settled nothing
but the validity of that claim against Mexico; and that, by the
award made under it to Glenn, and Perine, the trustees of the
defendants, the defendants have the only right or title set up,
claimed, or obtained under the treaty, which the plaintiff in error
can controvert only by showing that they were entitled to the
claim thus allowed to the defendants, and that the treaty and
award settled no rights as between the claimants, but merely
the obligation of Mexico to pay the claim. They will further
insist that the question, whether the original contract between Mina and the Mexican Company gave Williams any
rights which passed to his trustee in 1819, was a question of
Maryland law upon a ilIaryland contract, upon which Mexico's
subsequent recognition or agreement to pay that claim, as due
by herself, could have no influence; that Mexico's subsequent
agreement to pay the claim herself had no bearing upon the
question, as to what were the rights of Williams in Maryland
under the original contract between Mina and the Mexican
Company; and that the express waiver by Mexico, or even by
the Spanish government which she overthrew, or the objection of
illegality as far as she was concerned, could not affect the question
of, the, validity of the original contract, in Maryland and under
the laws of Maryland, and, above all, could not retrospect so as to
repeal the laws of Maryland, by validating that original contract,
ab initio, and passing the rights under it to the trustee of 1819.
And, as the result of the whole, therefore, the defendants in
error will maintain, that the decision of the State Court has
conclusively established the original invalidity of the contract,
and- that the trustee took no rights under it; and that the treaty,
if there be any question raised under it, gave the plaintiff in
error no right, title, or privilege which can affect that decision,
,or was denied'bv the State court. Milne v. Huber, 3 McLean,
102; and authorities under 1st and 2d points.
5. The act of Assembly of 1841, ch. 309, does not impair
the obligation of contracts. Safterlee v. Mathewson, 2 Pet.
414; Watson v. IMercer, 8 Pet. 110.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
This case is not distinguishable from the case decided at the
last term of Gill v. Oliver's Executors, and which was dismissed
for want of jurisdiction.

120

SUPREME COURT.
Williams, Trustee, v. Oliver et al.

It is reported in 11 How. 529. That case involved the right
to the share of Lyde Goodwin as a member of the "Baltimore
Mexican Company" in the fund that had been awarded to the
members of that company by the commissioners under the convention of 1839 with Mexico. Gill claimed it as permanent
trustee under the insolvent laws of Maryland, the benefit of
which Goodwin had obtained in 1817, on the assignment of all
his property for the use of his creditors.
The executors of Oliver claimed the right of Goodwin to this
fund under an assignment made by himself 30th May, 1829.
The money awarded by the commissioners to this company
under the treaty, had, -by the agreement of all parties claiming
an interest in the same, been deposited in the Mechanics' Bank
of Baltimore, to be distributed according to the rights of the
respective parties claiming it.
The Court of Appeals of Maryland decided against the right
of Gill, as the permanent trustee of Goodwin, under the insolvent proceedings, and in favor of the right of the executors of
Oliver.
The case was brought here by writ of error for review, and
was dismissed as we have stated for want of jurisdiction.
The Court of Appeals of Maryland had decided against the
right of Gill, on the ground that the contract made by the "Baltimore Mexican Company" with General Mina, in 1816, by
which means were furnished him to carry on a military expedition against the territories and dominions of the King of Spain,
a foreign prince With whom the United States were at peace,
was in violation of our Neutrality Act of 1794, and consequently
illegal and void, and could not be the foundation of any right
of property; or interest existing in Goodwin in 1817, the date of
the insolvent proceedings, and hence, that no interest in the subject-matter passed to the permanent trustees, setting up a title
under them.
After the revolutionary party in Mexico had achieved their
independence, and about the year 1825 the public authorities,
under the new government, recognized this claim of the Baltimore Company, as valid and binding upon it, and as such it
was brought before the board of commissioners, under the convention of 1839, and allowed.
It was not denied on the argument, and, indeed, could not
hdve been successfully, that the contract with General Mina in
1816, was illegal and void, having been made in express violation of law: and hence that no interest in, or right of property
arising out of it, legal or equitable, could pass, in 1817, the date
of the insolvent proceedings of Goodwin, to the trustee, for the
benefit of his creditors. But, it was urged, that the subsequent

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

121

Williams, Trustee, v. Oliver et al.

recognition and adoption of the obligation by the new government, had relation back, so as to confirm and legalize the original transaction, and thereby give operation and effect to the title
of the trustee at the date mentioned.
And upon this ground it was insisted that the decision of the
court below, denying the right of Gill, the permanent trustee,
was a decision against a right derived under the treaty and
award of the commissioners, which therefore brought the case
within the 25th section of the Judiciary Act.
Undoubtedly, upon this aspect of the case, and assuming that
there was any well-founded ground to be found in the record
for maintaining it, jurisdiction might have been very properly
entertained; and the question as to the effect of the recognition
of the obligation by Mexico, and award under the treaty in pursuance thereof, upon the right claimed by the trustee under the
insolvent proceedings, examined and decided. The decision below, in this aspect of the case, must have involved the effect and
operation of the treaty, and award of the commissioners under it.
But, a majority of the court were of opinion that no such
question existed in the case, or was decided by the court below;
and that the only one properly arising, or that was decided, was
the one growing out of the contract with General Mina of 1816,
and of the effect and operation to be given to it under the insolvent laws of Maryland.
The money awarded to the Mexican Company was a fund in
court, and had been brought in by the consent of all parties concerned, for distribution according to their respective rights. The
plaintiff in error claimed the share of Goodwin, under the insolvent proceedings of 1817, as trustee for the creditors through
the contract with Mina-the defendants by virtue of an assignment from Goodwin himself in 1829, after Mexico had recognized and acknowledged the claim as valid. The money had
been awarded to certain persons "in trust for whom it may
concern," without undertaking to settle the rights of the several
claimants. The court, in giving effect and operation to the insolvent laws of Maryland, as to the vesting of the property and
estate of the insolvent in the hands of the trustee, for the benefit
of the creditors, held, that no interest or right could be claimed
under them through the contract of 1816, but that the right of
Goodwin to the fund passed by his assignment in 1829 to the
defendants.
Mr. Justice Grier, in. delivering the opinion of the majority
of the court, speaking of that decision, observes, that in deciding
the question, the courts of Maryland have put no construction
on the treaty or award asserted by one party to be the true one,
and denied by the other. It was before them as a fact only. and

122

SUPREME COURT.
Williams, Trustee, v. Oliver et al.

not for the purpose of construction, Whether this money paid
into the court under the award, and first acknowledged by Alexico as a debt in 1825, existed as a debt transferable by the Maryland insolvent laws in 1817, or whether it, for the first time,
assumed the nature of a chose in action transferable by assignment after 1825, when acknowledged of record by Mexico, and
passed by the assignment of Lyde Goodwin to Robert Oliver,
was a question wholly deftors the treaty and award, and involving the construction of the laws of Maryland only, and not of
any treaty, or statute, or commission, under the United States.
And Mr. Justice Woodbury, who dissented on the question of
jurisdiction, observes, that the claim, so far as it regards the enforcement of the treat y with Mexico, does not seem to have
been overruled in terms by the State Court. That court did not
decide that the treaty was corrupt or illegal, or in any way a
nullity, when they held that the original contract violated the
laws of neutrality. So far, too, as regards the award made by
the commissioners, that the Baltimore Mexican Company, and
their legal representatives, had a j ,,,,. claim under the treaty for
the amount awarded, it was not overruled at all.
Again, he observes, that all must concede, that the State
court speaks in language' against the Mina contract alone as
illegal, and in terms do not impugn either the treaty or the
award; and it is merely a matter of inference or argument that
either of these was assailed, or any right properly claimed under
them overruled. But it is true the court held that Oliver's executors, rather than the appellant, were entitled to the fund furnished
by Mexico, and long subsequent to Mina's contract; but in
coming to that conclusion, they seem to have been governed by
their own views as to their own laws and the principles of general jurisprudence. The treaty or award contained nothing as
to the point whether Gill or Oliver's executors had the better
right to his share, but only that the Mexican Company and their
legal repiesentatives should receive the fund. This last the
court did not question.
The decision of the court below, therefore, not involving the
validity of the treaty, or award of the commissioners, or lawfulness or character of the fund, but simply the right and title to
the respective shares claimed in it, after the fund had been paid
over by the government, and brought into court for distribution
according to the agreement of all concerned, and which distribution depended upon the laws of the State, a majority of the
court, taking this view of the case, held, that there was a want
of jurisdiction, and dismissed the writ of error; and that the
decision, whether right or wrong, could not be the subject of
review under the 25th section of the Judiciary Act, as it involved

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.
Williams, Trustee, v. Oliver et al.

no question, either directly or by necessary intendment, arising
upon the treaty or award, or connected with the validity of
either; and if this court were right in the view thus taken of the
case, there can be no doubt as to the correctness of the conclusion arrived at. A different view of the case might, of course,
lead to a different conclusion.
Now, in the case before us,the plaintiff in error claims the
share of John Gooding, one of the mernbers- of the Mexican
Company, as permanent trustee under the insolvent laws of
Maryland, having been appointed 29th January, 1842, Gooding
having taken the benefit of these acts, and assigned his property
for the benefit of the creditors as early as 1819.
George Winchester had been previously appointed provisional
trustee on the 23d June, 1819, to whom all property had been
assigned, and on the 2d May, 1823, had been appointed permanent trustee, and .gave a bond for the faithful execution of his
duties without surety, and on the 2d April, 1825, sold the interest of Gooding in this share to Robert Oliver, under an order of
sale made by the Baltimore County Court, having jurisdiction
in the matter, for the consideration of $2,000. And in 1841 the
Legislature of Maryland passed a law confirming this sale, a
doubt having been suggested as to its validity, for want of a
surety to the official bond of the trustee.
In this state of the case the Court of Appeals of Maryland
held, that the interest of Gooding in the Mexican contract, did
not pass, under their insolvent laws, to the plaintiff in error as
permanent trustee, for the reasons assigned in the previous case
of Gill v. Oliver's Executors. And that if it did or could have
passed under these laws, it passed to Winchester, the previous
trustee, in connection with the confirming act of the legislature
of 1841.
It is apparent, therefore, if the decision in the case of Gill.v.
Oliver's executors involved no qu6stion that gave to this court
jurisdiction to revise it here, as has already been decided, none
exists in the case before us; for, as it respects the question of
jurisdiction, the two stand upon the same footing, and involve
precisely the same principles.
The counsel for the plaintiff in error sought to distinguish this
case from the previous one, and to maintain the jurisdiction of
the argument, upon the ground that the act of the Legislature
of Maryland of 1841, confirming the authority of Winchester,
the permanent trustee, was in contravention of a provision of
the Coastitution of the United States, as a "law impairing the
obligation of contracts."
But, admitting' this to be so, (which we do not,) still the admission would not affect the result. For the dedision upon the

124

SUPREME COURT..
Williams, Trustee, v. Oliver et al.

previous branch of the case denied to the plaintiff any right to,
or interest in, the fund in question, as claimed under the insolvent proceedings, as permanent trustee, and hence he was
deemed disabled from maintaining any action founded upon
that claim.
It was of no importance, therefore, as it respected the plaintiff in the distribution of the fund, whether it was rightfiflly or
wrongfully awarded to Oliver's executors. He had no longer
any interest in the question.
. In order to give jurisdiction to this court to revise the judgment of a State court, under the 25th section of the Judiciary
Act, a question must not only exist on the record, actually or by
necessary intendment, as mentioned in that section and the decision of the court as there stated, but the decision must be
controlling in the disposition of the case; or, in the language
of some of the cases on. the subject, "the judgment of the State
court would not have been what it is, if there had not been a
misconstruction of some act of Congress, or a decision against
the validity of the right, title, privilege, or exemption set up
under it" 3 Pet. 292, 302. Or, as stated by Mr. Justice Story,
in Crowell v. Randell, (10 Pet. 392,) where he reviewed all the
cases, it must appear "from the facts stated by just and necessary inference, that the question -was nmade, and that the court
below must, in order'to have arrived at the judgment pronounced
by it, have come to the very decision of Ahat question as indispensable to that judgment." And in a recent case, (5 How.
341,Y following out the doctrine of the previous cases, "It is not
enough that the record shows that the plaintiff in error contended and claimed that the judgment of the court impaired the
obligation of a contract, and violated the provisions of the
Constitution of the United States, and that this claim was overruled by the court; but it must appear by clear and necessary
intendment, that the question must have been raised, and must
have been decided, in order to induce the judgment."
It is not intended, nor to be understood, from these cases, that
the *question,thus material to the decision arrived at, must be
confined exclusively and specially to the construction of the
treaty, act of Congress, &c., in order to give the jurisdiction; as
this would be too narrow a view of it. Points may arise growing out of, and .connected with the general question, and so
blended with it as not to be separated, and, therefore, falling
equally within the decision contemplated by the 25th section.
The cases of Smith v. the State of Maryland, 6 Crancli, 281,
and Martin v. Hunter's Lessee, 1 Wheat. 305, 355, afford illustrations of this principle.
Now, as the decision of the question involving the right and

DECENBER

TERM, 1851.

Williams, Trustee, v. Oliver et

125

al.,

title of the plaintiff in error to Gooding's interest in this fund
under the insolvent proceedings was against him in the court
below, and was one which, in our judgment, involved only a
question of State law, and, therefore, not the subject of - avision here, and was conclusive upon his rights, and decisive of
the case, it follows that we have no jurisdiction within the principle of the cases to which we have referred; for the determination of the court upon the validity of the act of the
legislature of 1841 in no way controlled -the judgment at
which the court arrived, as respected the plaintiff. That turned
upon the decision as to the right of the plaintiff to the fund
under the insolvent proceedings, as permanent trustee of Gooding, and whatever might have been the opinion of the court
upon the other question, the result of their judgment would
have been the same.
For the reason, therefore, that this case falls directly within
the decision of Gill v. Oliver's Executors, and is not distinguishable-from it, the case must take the same direction, and be dismissed for want of jurisdiction.
Order.
This caus came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Court of Appeals of the State of Maryland for the
Western Shore, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court, that
this cause be, and the same is hereby, dismissed, for the want of
jurisdiction.

NATHANIEL

WILLIAMS, AS PERMANENT

TRUSTEE

FOR THE. CRE-

DITORS OF JOHN GOODING, AN INSOLVENT DEBTOR, V. CHARLES
OLIVER, ROBERT M. GIBBES, AND THOMAS OLIVER, EXECUTORS OF ROBERT OLIVER, AND JOHN GLENN AND DAVID M.

PERRINE, TRUSTEES.
The decision in the preceding case of Williams, Trustee, v. Oliver's Executors, again
affirmed.

THIS case was also, like the preceding one, brought up from
the Court of Appeals of Maryland, by a writ of error issued
under the 25th section of the Judiciary Act.
The circumstances of the two cases were the same. In both,

Winchester was thd trustee who sold the share to Oliver. and
the same act of Assernbly.applied to both. The judgrnent aiid
11',

