OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

by reference the letter of September 1, 1876. In the amended
petition, on which the last trial was had, this letter was
omitted. It is not, therefore, any part of the record on
this appeal. We decided on the former motion to send
the case back for further findings, that it could not now be
brought here as par of the evidence, and that it was not
the proper subject of a special finding. We see no reason
to reconsider that decision.
.Aotion deni6d.

GIBBONS v. DISTRICT OF COLUM1BIA.
.AIPFEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
Submitted December 21, 1885.-Decided January 18, 188.

If a church building is taken down, and a new church, with a sufficient space
around it for'air and light, is built on other land within the same enclosure,
in order to enable a revenue to be derived from the sale or lease of the land
on which the old church stood, and it is unnecessary for the enjoyment of
the now church that this land should remain vacant, this land is not exempt
from taxation for the support of the government of the District of Columbia
under ยง 8 of the acts of March 3,1875, ch. 162; July 12, 1876, ch. 180; and
March 3,1877, ch. 117.
It is within the constitutional power of Congress, acting as the local legislature
of the District of Columbia, to tax different classes of property within the

District at different rates.

This is an appeal from a decree dismissing a bill in equity by
the Roman Catholic Archbishop of the Diocese of Baltimore,
of which the District of Columbia is a part, to clear the title of
lots numbered 36 to 46 inclusive (being the lots formerly num-

bered 5, 6 and 7), in square 376 in the City of Washington,
from a cloud created by the assessment and sale thereof for
taxes amounting, with interest, to more than $5000.
The case was heard upon the bill, answer, a general replication, and the deposition of the pastor of St. Patrick's Church,
from which the facts appeared to be as follows:
The lots in question front south on F Street about 170 feet,

GIBBONS v. DISTRICT"OF COLUMBIA.
Opinion of the Court.

and have a depth varying from about 93-feet to about 114 feet.
They were conveyed b3y Anthony Caffray in 1804 to .the :Roman Catholic Bishop of Baltimore in fee "for the use of the
Roman Catholic congregation worshipping in the place called
St. Patrick's Church in the City of Washington ;" and thenceforward until 1870 were occupied by the old St. Patrick's
Church. During that period the church enclosure included
about one half of square 376, bounded south by F Street, west
by Tenth Street, and north by G Street. In 1870 the old
church building was found to be unsafe, and in 1872 it was
taken down. Since 1870, and pending the completion of a new
church now in process of erection, the congregation has worshipped in Carroll Hall on G Street, within the same half square,
and separated from the lots in question by a thirty foot passageway. The new church fronts on Tenth Street, with a strip of
open ground Ubout thirty-five feet wide on its south side and
in the rear for light and ventilation, all to the north of the lots
in question. The reason for so placing the church, instead of
putting it in the middle of the inclosure, was to enable a revenue to be derived from the sale or lease of these lots to pay off
the church debt incurred in bufIding; and it was not necessary
for the enjoyment of the church that these lots should remain
vacant. In February, 1881, the plaintiff obtained a, decree in
equity, authorizing him to sell or otherwise dispose of these
lots, and to apply the proceeds' to the completion of the new
church building, and about that time he made leases thereof
for twenty-five years to private persons.
From 1804 until June 30, 1875, no taxes were assess( on
these lots. Afterwards until June 30, 1880, they were annually assessed for taxes and sqld for non-payment thereof. The
annual taxes since that time have been paid.
b. 2. 1y. .Iforrisfor appellant.
,J1 A. G. Lidle for appellee.
A.. JusTIE Gnar
deliveted the opinion of the court. After
stating the facts as reported above, he continued:

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

The only matte' in contest is the validity of the taxes assessed
upon the lots on F Street for the.five years between June 30,
1875, and June 30, 1880, under the annual acts of Congress of
March 3, 1875, ch. 162, and July 12, 1876, ch. 180, and the
permanent act of March 3, 1877, ch. 117, authorizing the levy
of taxes for the support of the government of the District of
Columbia, the material provisions of which are as follows:
The eighth section of each of these statutes exempts from
taxation houses for the reformation of offenders, almshouses,
buildings devoted to art or belonging to institutions of purely
public charity, "church buildings, and grounds actually occupied by such buildings," houses to improve the condition of sea'men or soldiers, free public library buildings, and cemeteries.
The act of 1875 adds: "The lands or grounds appurtenant to
,any said'house or building, so far as reasonably needed and actually used for the convenient enjoyment of any said house.or
building for its legitimate purpose and no other; but if any
portion of any said building, house, grounds, or cemetery, so in
terms excepted, is used to secure a rent or income, or for any
business purpose, such portion of the same, or a sum equal in
value to such portion, shall be taxed against the owner of said
building or grounds." 18 Stat. 503.
The acts of 1876 and 1877 substitute for this addition a provision to the same effect, though differing somewhat in form,
as follows: "But if any portion of any such building, house,
grounds or cemetery, so in terms excepted, is larger than is
reasonably needed [in the act of, 1876-" absolutely required,"
in the act of 18771 and actually used for its legitimate purpose
and none other, or is used to secure a rent or income, or for
any business purpose, such portion'of the same, or a sum equal
invalue to such portion, shall be taxed against the owner of
said building or grounds." 19 Stat. 85, 399.
Upon the construction most favorable to the appellant, these
statutes exempt nothing from taxation beyond church buildings
and grounds actually occupied for such buildings, and the lands
or grounds appurtenant to any such building, so far as reasonably needed and actually used for its convenient enjoyment for
its legitimate purpose. Even parts of the exempted buildings

GIBBONS v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
Opinion of the Court.

and lands, if used to secure a rent or income, or for any business purpose, are taxable. But land which is neither actually
occupied for a church building, nor reasonably needed and
actually used for the- convenient, enjoyment of the building as
a church, is not exempt from taxation, whether it is used for
any other purpose or not.
We are not disposed to deny that grounds left open around
a church, not merely to admit light and air, but also to add to
its beauty and attractiveness, may, if not used or intended to
bE used for any other purpose, be' exempt from taxation under
these statutes.
But upon the uncontroverted facts of the present cas3 it was
not only unnecessary for the enjoyment of the church that the
F Street lots should remain vacant, but the very reason for
placing the church to the northward of these lots, instead of
putting it in the middle of the whole land controlled by the
ecclesiastical authorities, -was to enable a revenue to be derived
from the lease or sale of these lots. Under such circumstances,
these lots were not exempt from taxation, even before they had
been actually so leased.
The objection, taken in argument, that the act of March 3,
1877, is unconstitutional, because it provides that the tax upon
all lands within the District of Columbia, outside of the cities
of Washington and Georgetown, and held and used solely for
agricultural purposes, shall be a dollar and a quarter on the
hundred, and upon all other real and personal property in the
District, not expressly exempted, a dollar and a half on the
hundred, is founded on a misunderstanding of the case of
Louglorough v. Blake, 5 Wheat. 317.
The point there decided was that an act of Congress, laying
a direct tax throughout the United States in proportion to the
census directed to be taken by the Constitution, might comprehend the District of Columbia; and the power of Congress,
legislating as a local legislature for the District, to levy taxes
for District purposes only, in like manner as the legislature of
a State may tax the people of a State for State purposes, was
expressly admitted, and has never since been doubted. 5 Wheat.
318; Trdv v. Cook, 97 U. S. 541; Afattbq/ly v. Dist'ict of

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

Columbia, 97 IT. S. 687.

In the exercise of this power, Con-

gress, like any State legislature unrestricted by constitutional
provisions, may at its discretion wholly exempt certain classes
of property from taxation, or may tax them at a lower rate
than other property.
Decree affirmed.

FLETCHER v. HAMLET.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
Submitted December 21. 1885.-Decided January 18, 1886.

Cases advanced under Section 3 of Rule 82 are to be submitted on printed
briefs and arguments after service of notice and brief or argument.
When one of several defendants in a suit on a joint cause of action in a State
court loses his right to remove the action into a Circuit Court of the United
Sta'es by failing to make the application in time, the right is lost as to all.

This was a motion to dismiss or affirm. The facts which
make the case axe stated in the opinion of the court.
- B. R. -Forman,for the motion.
-Hr.Edgar
posing.

. Farrarand .Jr. Erne8t B.

Truttscnitt op-

JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error brought under ยง 5 of the act of March

MR. CinEF

3, 1875, 18 Stat. 470, ch. 137, for the review of an order of the
Circuit Court remanding a case which had been removed from
a State court. It has been advanced under Rule 32, and is
now for hearing on its merits. In submitting the case the defendants in error treat the rule as though it required a motion
to dismiss or affirm. Such is not the proper practice. Cases
advanced under section 3 of Rule 32 are to be submitted like

