OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Syllabus.

I think that the act of Congress, when prohibiting cohabitation with more than one woman; meant unlawful habitual
sexual intercourse.
It is, in my opinion, a strained construction of a highly penal
statute to hold that a man can be guilty, under that statute,
without the accompaniment of actual sexual connection.
I know of no instance in which the word cohabitation has
been used to describe a criminal offence where it did not imply
sexual intercourse.'
MR. JusnIo FIELv concurs with me.

ROBERTS v. REILLY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTR!ICT OF GEORGIA.
Argued November 20, 1885.-Decided December 14,1885.

Appeals. in cases of habeas corpus from the final decision of a District Court,
or of a judge thereof, may, within the discretion of the court or judge, be
sent to the appellate tribunal, at a term of the Circuit Court current at the
time when the appeal is taken, under regulations adapted to secure justice.
An Appeal from the final decision of a District Court or of a judge thereof in a
habeas corpus case may be heard by the Circuit Justice at chambers, when it
appears that the order therefor is made without objection, and for the convenience of parties, and that the parties appear and are heard and no objection is taken at the hearing, and that no hardship or injustice follows. An
objection thereto under these circumstances is too late if taken for the first
time in this court.
On the application of an alleged fugitive from justice (detained under authority of the executive of the State where he is found in order to be surrendered
to the executive of the State in whichthe crime is alleged to have been committed), to be discharged on a writ of habeas corpus, it is a question of law,
whether he is substantially charged with the commission of a crime against
the laws ofthe latter State ; but the question whether he is a fugitive from
justice is one of fact, the decision of which by tile governor of the State in
which he is found is sufficient to justify the removal-at least until overthrown by contrary proof.
The question whether a corporation is capable in law of ownership of property,
the subject of a larceny charged, is not a question which can be raised in
proceedings in habeas corpus for the 'discharge of an alleged fugitive from
justice held for surrender to the executive of the State in which the crime
is alleged to have beer. committed.

ROBERTS v. REILLY.
Statement of Facts.
If the governor of the State from which the delivery of a fugitive from justice
is demanded does not require a certified cqpyof the law of the State against
which the crime is charged to have been committed, the prisoner cannot
take advantage of the omission in proceedings in habeas corpus for his
discharge.
It is discretionary with the State upon which demand is made for surrender of
a fugitive from justice to surrender him, even if the allegations charge acts
done by him in the State, surrendering which amount to a crime by its
laws.
A person who, having committed, within a State, an act which by its laws constitutes a crime, is, when sought for to be subjected to criminal process to
answer therefor, found without that State and within the territory of
another State or Territory, a fugitive from justice within the meaning of
that term as used in the Constitution of the United States.
The record in this case showed the following state of facts:
On April 30, 1885, the appellant Roberts presented his petition to the judge of the District Court for the Southern District of Georgia, and filed the same in the office of the clerk,
alleging that he was illegally restrained of his liberty by the
appellee, Reilly, who claimed to be acting as an agent of the
State of New York, and as such to hold the petitioner, under
color of the authority of the United States, by virtue of an arrest made in pursuance of an executive warrant issued by the
governor of Georgia, on a requisition from the governor of
New York, reciting that the petitioner had been indicted in
the State of New York and was a fugitive from the justice of
the latter State. He averred that the custody by which he
was restrained of his liberty was. illegal, for various reasons
assigned, and prayed for the writ of habea8 corpus. The writ
was issued as prayed for, and duly served, and thereupon an
amendment to the petition was filed, as follows:
"And now comes the said WihlWim S. Roberts, and, by leave
of the court first had, amends said petition, and says that he is
restrained of his liberty, in violation of a law of the United
States, viz., the Act of February 12, 1793, section 5178 of the
Revised Statutes of the United States, in this: that it appears
from the record, now here to your honor shown, upon which
the executive warrant under which he is now restrained issued,
that the crime with which he is charged was committed in the
State of Georgia that the papers accompanying the demand
VOL. cxvi-6

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

of the governor of New York are not authenticated, as required by that act; that it nowhere appears that the relator
was personally within the limits of the State of New York at
the time 'when said alleged crime is stated. to .have been cornmitted; that it nowhere appears that any evidence was before
the governor of New York, at the time he issued his demand,
-that relator was personally within the limits of New York State
when the crime is alleged to have been committed."
The defendant Reilly, on May 2, 1885, filed his answer and
return, under oath, to the writ of habea8 co:2uzs, which had
been issued and served upon him, as follows:
UNITED STATEs OF AmicA,

Southern Didtriet of Georgia, Ea8tern Divi.ion:

"Pursuant to a writ of habea8 corpus, issued by the Hon.
Emory Speer, judge of the District Court of the United States
for the Southern District of Georgia, served upon me, I herewith pioduce the body of William S. Roberts, and return as
the cause of his detention the executive warrant of the Governor of the State of Georgia under which he was delivered to
me by authority issued to me by Hon. D. B. Hill, Governor of
the State of New York, April 22, 1885, here to the court
shown, copy of which is anexed, under which I still hold him,
I having, as agent of the, State of New York, received said
Roberts from Wilberforce Daniel, -sheriff of the county of
Richmond, to be carried to the State of New York, there to
be dealt with according to law; that a certified copy. of the indictment found for grand larceny in the State of New York,
with evidence of fleeing from justice after commission of the
crime, were produced by respondent as received from the
governor of New York and delivered to the governor of
Georgia, and retained in his office at the time of the issuing of
the executive warrant under which the said Roberts was
placed in possession of the respondent by the sheriff of Richmond county.
"I further return that on April 26, 1885, after the delivery
of the said Roberts to me by the sheriff of Richmond county,
I'was served with.a writ of hahea8 coru8 issued by the Hon.

ROBERTS v. REILLY.
Statement of Fact.

H. C. Roney, judge of the Superior Court of the Augusta circuit, of which circuit the county of Richmond is a part, and by
his order required to produce the said Roberts before him
April 27, 1885; that from that date until May 1, 1885, I held
the said Roberts subject to the order of the said judge, who at
said time remanded him into my custody, a certified copy of
which proceedings, with the judgment thereon dismissing the
writ and remanding him into my custody, is here to the court
shown.
"Whereupon this respondent prays that the said writ may
be dismissed at the costs of the relator."
On the hearing before the District Court, documents were
put in evidence, and constituted a part of the record, as follows:
1. The authority given by the governor of New York to the
respondent, as agent of the State, to take and receive the prisoner as a fugitive from justice and convey him to the State of
New York to be dealt with according to law.
2. A copy of the requisition of the governor of New York
upon the governor of Georgia, as follows:
STATE OF NEW YoRx, ExEcm'vrr
CaA13n.
"David B. tHill, Governor of the State of New York, to his
Excellency, the Governor of the State of Georgia:
"Whereas it appears by a coty of an indictment, which I
certify to be authentic and duly authenticated, in accordance
with the laws of this State, that William S. Roberts stands
charged with the crime of grand larceny in the first degree,
committed in the county of New York, in this State, and it
has been represented to me that he has fled from justice of this
State, and may have taken refuge in the State of Georgia;
now, therefore, pursuant to the provisions of the Constitution
and laws of the United States in such cases made and provided, I do hereby require that the said William S. Roberts be
apprehended and delivered to Philip Reilly, who is authorized
to receive and convey him to the State of New York, there to
be dealt with according to law.
"In witness whereof I have hereunto signed my name and

-OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

affixed the privy seal of the State, at the city of Albany, this
twenty-second day of April, in the year of our Lord, one thousand eight hundred and eighty-five.
DAvD B. HILL.
[Seal of the State of New York.]
"By the Governor: WILLIm G. RicE,
Pivate i&ecwetary."

3.A copy of the application for this requisition made by the
district attorney of the county of New York, accompanied and
supported by affidavits of Win. W. Thurston and others, giving in detail the circumstances of the alleged offence, and averring that the prisoner, and one Walton, charged with him, had
fled from the justice of the State of New York and were to be
found in Georgia.
4. A copy of the indictment, as follows:
"

Court of General Sessions of the Peace of the City aad
County of- New York.
The People of the State of New York
againdt

William S. Roberts and Edward H. Walton.
"The grand jury of the city and county of New York by
this indictment accuse William S. Roberts and tdward Hf.
Walton of the crime of grafid larceny in the first degree, committed as follows: The said William S. Roberts and Edward
H. Walton, each late of the first ward of the city of New York,
in the county of New York aforesaid, on -the fourteenth day of,
February, in the year of our J ord one thousand eight hundied
and eighty-four, at the ward, city, and county aforesaid, with
force and arms, ten written instruments and evidences of debt,
to wit, the bonds and written obligations issued by. the Georgetown and Lane's Railroad Company, a corporation duly existing under the laws of the State of South Carolina, and called
'first mortgage bonds,' in and by each of which the said railroad, company acknowledged itself indebted to the bearer
thcreof in the sum of one thousand dollars, and which said sum
the said railroad company thereby promised to pay on the first
day of January, in the year of our Lord 1913, with interest,

ROBERTS v. REILLY.
Statement of Facts.

the same bearing date on the first day of January, in the year
of our Lord 1883, and being then and there each duly signed
by the president and secretary of the said railroad company,
and sealed with the seal thereof, and numbered nine, ten,
eleven, twelve, thirteen, fourteen, fifteen, sixteen, seventeen,
and eighteen, respectively, and being then and there in full
force and effect., and wholly unsatisfied, and of the value of
one thousand dollars each, (a more particular description of
which said bonds and written obligations is to the grand jury
aforesaid unknown,) of the valuable things, evidences of debt,
goods, chattels, and personal property of the Bethlehem. Iron
Company then and there being found, then and there feloni-.
ously did steal, take, and carry away against the form of the
statute in such case made and provided, and against the peace
of the people of the State of New York and their dignity.
"RA-SDOLPH

B.

IfArTixE,

Di8trict.Attorney."
Indorsed on back of indictment:
"Filed 10 day of April, 1885. The People v8. William S.
Roberts and Edward H. Walton., Grand larceny, 1st degree.
Sections 528, 530, 540, Penal Code. Randolph B. Martine,
District Attorney.
"A true bill.
"H:l~ y A. O~xLy, -Foreman.
"Witnesses: W. W. Thurston.
W. P. St. John."
The foregoing were certified by the secretary of the Executive Department of Georgia to constitute a true and complete transcript or copy of papers of [on] file in that office in
the matter of the requisition for William S. Roberts by the
governor of New York upon the governor of Georgia.
5. The executive warrant of the governor of Georgia, with
the return of the execution thereof by the sheriff, as follows:
"State of Georgia, by Henry D. McDaniel, Governor of said
State, to all the sheriffs and constables thereof, greeting:
"Whereas his exjellency, David _1. Hill, Governor of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

State of New York, and as the executive authority thereof,
has demanded of me as the executive authority of this State,
William S. Roberts, as a fugitive from justice from the State
of New York, and has moreover produced a copy of indictment charging the said William S. Roberts with having committed in the said State of New York the crime of grand larceny
in the first degree, which copy [of] indictment is duly certified
as authentic by his excellency the governor of the State of
New York, and has also appointed and commissioned Philip
Reilly agent on the part of the State of New York to receive
said fugitive from the civil authorities of this State, to the end
that he may be carried to the State of New York, there to be
dealt with according to law; and whereas it is suspected that
'the said fugitive from justice is now within the jurisdictional
limits of this State:
"Now, in accordance with the provisions of an act of Congress, passed the twelfth day of February, seventeen hundred,
and ninety-three, respecting 'fugitives from justice,' and in
order that the said William S. Roberts may be brought to
trial for the offence for which he stands charged, you are hereby commanded to arrest and deliver him to the said Philip
Reilly, agent as aforesaid, so that he may be carried to the
State of New York, within whose jurisdiction said offence is
alleged to have been committed; and I moreover charge and
require ll officers, both civil and military, in this State, to be
vigilant in endeavoring to apprehend the said William S.
Roberts, fugitive as aforesaid.
"Given under my hand and the seal of the Executive Department, at the capitol, in Atlanta, this 25th day of April, in
the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and eightyfive, and of American Independence the one hundred and ninth.
HuNRY D. MoDAFrEL, Governor.
[sEDAL.]
HOWARD E. W. PA~rwER,
"By the Governor:
Seeretary, Exemutive Department."
Serif'Is Return.
Richmond COonty:
"Executed the within warrant by arresting William S.

"GEOrGIA,

ROBERTS v. REILLY.
Statement of Facts.

Roberts, and delivering him, pursuant to the mandate of the
governor, to Philip Reilly, agent on the part of the State of
New York, at one p. in., April 26th, 1885.
W. DANrL, Szrif 1?.
C. Ga."
6. A transcript of the record of certain proceedings in the
Superior Court of Richmond County in hiabeas corpus, on a petition therefor presented by the said William S. Roberts on April
26, 1885, the return thereto of the said Philip Reilly, and the
order of the court thereon, rendered May 1, 1885, remanding
the petitioner to the custody of the said Reilly, under the executive warrant of the governor of Georgia, issued in pursuance of the requisition of the governor of New York, heretofore set out.
7. An affidavit of W. S. Roberts, setting forth the facts of
the transaction imputed to him as a crime, and on which the
indictment is based, and denying the truth of the charge. It
also denied that he was in New York on the day laid in the indictment as the date of the offence, and denied that he was in
that State after indictment found or that he fled therefrom.
And in support of these averments an affidavit of E. H. Walton
was also made and filed.
On May 4, 1885, the matter was heard by the judge of the
District Court on these pleadings and proofs, when it was
ordered and adjudged that the writ be disallowed, and that the
petitioner be remanded to the custody of the respondent.
Thereupon, on May 5, 1885, the following order allowing a.
appeal was made and entered in the District Court:
"In the District Court of the United States for the Southern
District of Georgia, Eastern Division.
"I Re Petition of WILLIAxA S. ROBERTS.
"The judge of the District Court having rendered a final decision in said case dismissing said writ and remanding said petitioner, and said petitioner having prayed that an appeal be
taken in his behalf to the next Circuit Court for said district,
in which said cause may be heard in accordance with the statute in that behalf enacted, after argument had it is considered

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

and ordered that an appeal be, and the same is hereby, allowed
upon the following terms and under the following regulations:
"That the said William S. Roberts be taken into the custody
of the United States marshal for the said Southern District of
Georgia, to be by him safely kept, and that the said William S.
Roberts do execute and deliver a good and sufficient bond in
the sum of ten thousand dollars, with security, to be approved
by the judge of said District-Court, which said bond, when approved, shall be filed with the clerk of said Circuit Court,
and shall be conditioned as follows: That the said William S.
Roberts do deliver himself up to the marshal of said southern
district, and do appear before the Circuit Court whenever and
wherever ordered by .this court, or by the said Circuit Court,
and do then and there abide by and perform the judgment of,
the Circuit Court in the-premises.
"And that the said William S. Roberts do cause to be sent
to the said appellate tribunal a transcript of the petition, writ
of habeas corpus, return thereto, and other proceedixigs-sand
documents and affidavits in said cause, immediately on execution of, said bond. And that upon the execution and approval
of said bond as aforesaid, and the tender of the same, the said
William S. Roberts be discharged from the custody of said
marshal and allowed to go free, subject to the terms of this
order or the final decision of said appellate court.
"In open court, My 5th, 1885.
EmoRY SrEm, U. S. Tudge."
On May 16, 1885, the relatorWilliam S. Roberts, filed, in the
clerk's office of the Circuit Court for the Eastern Division,
Southern District of Georgia, at a stated term of said court,
begun and holden in the city of Savannah, on the second Monday in April, 1885, a transcript of a record, on appeal from the
District Court, of the foregoing proceedings and order, having
previously given the bond on appeal required thereby.
Afterwards an order was made in the Circuit Court, the distriet judge presiding, directing the clerk to trausmit a transcript
of all the proceedings in the cause to the circuit justice, at At]anta., Georgia, that the same might be heard before him on

ROBERTS v. REILLY.
Statement of Facts.

May 18, or as soon thereafter as the same could be heard. Accordingly on May 19, the matter was heard before Mr. Justice
Woods, at Atlanta, when and where the parties appeared, the
petitioner and appellant by counsel, his personal presence being
excused by reason of physical disability. The following order
was thereupon made, and entered on the minutes of the Circuit
Court :
"In the matter of appeal of Win. S. Roberts from the decision
of the District Judge of the United States for the Southern
District of Georgia, Eastern Division, under petition for
htabeas corpus against Philip Reilly:

"This 'ase came on to be heard before me pursuant to the
order of-the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of Georgia, Eastern Division, dated May 15th,
1885, to which court an appeal was allowed iMay 5th, 1885,
and which was perfected upon the execution of a bond approved by the district judge, and filed May 7th, 1885.
"After argument heard, it is ordered that the judgment of
the district judge of May 4th, 1885, 'that the writ is disallowed, and the petition of the relator be dismissed, and that
he be remanded to the custody of Philip Reilly,' be, and it is
hereby, affirmed at the costs of the relator.
"It is further ordered that this order be entered on the
minutes of the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Soiitbern District of Georgia, Eastern Division, and a certified
copy transmitted to the district judge of the United States for
the Southern District of Georgia, Eastern Division, for enforcement by him of his judgment of May 4th, 1885.
"It further appearing that sufficient cause was shown before
me for the non-appearance of the relator, it is ordered that no
liability rest upon the sureties upon the bond filed May 7th,
1S85, for such non-appearance, but that said bond remain of
full force until complied with by the delivery of the relator to
the United States marshal to be turned over to said Philip
Reilly, or such other duly constituted agent as may be appointed by the governor of New York to receive him.
"It is further ordered that the relator have leave to apply

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

to the district judge for stay of his order of May 4th, 1885,
until physically able to be removed, and that for the cause
shown in the affidavit of Henry F. Campbell of May 18th,
1885, submitted at the hearing, and now ordered to be filed,
the delivery of the relator to Philip Reilly to be made by the
marshal of Georgia, the obligee in the bond, be stayed until
June 19th, 1885.
"May 19th, 1885.

W. B. WooDs,

Circuit Justice."
Thereupon the relator, Roberts, filed in the Circuit Court, on
June 20, 1885, his petition, praying an appeal from this order
and judgment to this court, which was allowed; and it was
ordered "that the clerk of the United States Circuit Court for
the Southern District of Georgia, Eastern Division, do send up
to the October Term, 1885, of the Supreme Court of the United
States a transcript of the petition, writ of habeas corpus, return
thereto, and other proceedings in said cause. Further ordered,
that the judgments heretofore had in the cause remanding said
Roberts into the custody of said Reilly be, and the same are
hereby, superseded until the final decision of the Supreme
Court can be had in the case, and that the bail of said Roberts
retain him in their custody and produce him to answer whatever decision the Supreme Court may render in the cause, or if
his bail have surrendered him into the custody of the United
States marshal, that said marshal hold him to be produced to
answer said judgment, with liberty to said Roberts. to give a
new bond in the sum of $10,000, with surety, to be approved
by the undersigned (the circuit justice), conditioned for his appearance to answer said judgment."
The appeal to this court having been perfected, the appellant
filed the following assignment of errors:
"Afterwards, to wit, on the second Monday of October, in
this same term, before the Justices of the Supreme Court of
the United States, at the Capitol, in the city of Washington,
came the said William S. Roberts, by W. W. Montgomery, his
attorney, and says that in the record and proceedings aforesaid there is manifest error in this to wit, that by the record

ROBERTS v. REILLY.
Statement of Facts.

aforesaid it appears that an order was passed referring said
cause to Judge Woods, to be heard by him in vacation, said
order having been passed at a term of said Circuit Court which
was in session when the appeal from the district judge was
allowed, whereas appellant insists that the appeal from the
district judge was to the term of said Circuit Court next after
the judgment of the district from which the appeal was taken.
Appellant further insists that no hearing codld be had in vacation unless the record shews on its face that such hearing was
had by consent of parties. Appellant further insists that the
judgment of his honor Judge Woods was error, because there
was no evidence showing that the relator had ever been in
New York since the alleged commission of the crime, or at the
time of its commission, which was not fully rebutted; and
again, because no copy of the laws of New York was submitted
to the governor of Georgia shewing what constituted grand
larceny under the laws of New York.
"And again, because no copy of the laws of New York was
submitted to the gover4or of Georgia shewing that by such
laws the indictment was sufficient, it manifestly appearing that
said indictment did not charge any crime by the rules of the
common law.
"And again, because the evidence submitted to the governor
of Georgia shewed that, if any crime was committed, it was
committed in Georgia, and not in New York.
"And again, because it nowhere appears that the affidavits
accompanying the requisition of the governor of New'York
were sworn to before officers authorized to take them.
"And the said Roberts prays that the said several judgments
herein complained of may be reversed, annulled, and altogether
held for naught, and he be discharged from custody and restored to all rights which he has lost by reason of the said
executive warrant of the governor of Georgia and the judgments complained of."
And afterwards, the counsel for the appellant filed additional assignments of error, as follows :
"That the Circuit Court erred in not discharging appellant,
for the reason that the affidavits on which the requisition of

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

the governor of New York is found are not authenticated by
him.
"And again, because the warrant of the governor of Georgia
does not state upon what evidence it is issued, or that the gov ernor was satisfied from the testimony that a case was made
which required him to exercise the power of extradition conferred upon him by the United States Constitution and the Act
of Congress.
"And again, because the affidavits on which the indictment
and requisition mainly rest are taken before the leading counsel of the prosecution in the case, such counsel acting as a
notary public.
"And again, because the facts show a crime under the laws
of Georgia, which, even if they show a crime under the laws
of New York also, take the case out of the operation of the
extradition laws."
.1r. IF. F .fontgrnery for appellant.
.f-. Frank H. fXIler and Xr. Daniel Lord, r., for appellee.
JUSTICE MATTHiEWS delivered the opinion of the court.
There is nothing in the Revised Statutes, § 763, providing
an appeal in cases of habeas corpus to the Circuit Court from
the final decision of the District Court, or the judge thereof,
which requires it to be taken, as in ordinary cases at law or
suits in equity or admiralty, to the next term of the Circuit
Court thereafter to be held. On the contrary, the subject is
regulated otherwise by § 765 Rev. Stat., which enacts, that
"the appeals allowed by the two preceding sections shall be
taken on such terms, and under such regulations and orders, as
well for the custody and appearance of the person alleged to
be in prison or confined or restrained of his liberty, as for sending up to the appellate tribunal a traiiscript of the petition,
writ of habeas corpus, return thereto, and other proceedings, as
may be prescribed by the Supreme Court, or, in default thereof,
by the court or judge hearing the cause." This statutory pro-

MRi.

ROBERTS v. REILLY.
Opinion of the Court.

vision evidently contemplates the summary character of proceedings under the writ of habea8 corpu8 as not admitting, in
favor of the liberty of the citizen, the delays usually and necessaiily attending ordinary litigations between parties, and confers upon the *udicial tribunal, or the judge hearing the application and mak*ng the order which is the subject of the appear
discretion to send up the case to the appellate tribunal, under
such regulations and orders as may seem best adapted to secure
the speediest and most effective justice. This harmoniously
adapts the practice in direct appeals in such cases, under these
sections of the Revised Statutes, to that exercised independently of these provisions, by means of the original writ of
abea" corpus, with the aid of a writ of certiorari,to bring up
the record of the proceedings to be reviewed. This form of
appellate jurisdiction was declared by this court in Ex parte
Yerger, 8 Wall. 85, to exist independently of the provisions
for a direct appeal, now incorporated into the sections of the
Revised Statutes above referred to; and it was exercised without regard to the beginning and ending of the terms of the
appellate court, and in a summary manner. The appeal in the
present case, from the judgment of the District Court to the
Circuit Court, was therefore not heard prematurely, although
it was lodged and disposed of at a term of the latter court
which was current at the time the appeal was taken.
In regard to the objection now taken that the hearing of the
appeal was had before the Circuit Justice at Atlanta at chambers, and not at Savannah in open court, it is sufficient to say
that the order to that effect was made without objection taken at
the time, or afterwards, in the District or Circuit Court, oi at the
hearing before Justice Woods; that the appellant appeared at
the time and place by counsel and was heard; that the arrangement was made for the convenience of the parties and to avoid
delay; and that it does not seem to have involved any hardship
or injustice to the party now complaining. The objection, if
it could ever have been properly interposed and insisted on,
cannot now be made for the first time. It comes too late.
The other assignments of er-ors relate to the merits, and require a consideration of he limits of the jurisdiction of judicial

94

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion' of the Court.

tribunals in cases of the extradition of fugitives from justice under the clause of the Constitution by which it is regulated.

That constitutional provision declares that "a person charged
in any State with treason, feloniy, or othar crime, who shall
flee from justice and be found in another State, shall, on demand of the executive authority of the State from which he
fled, be delivered up, to be removed to the State having jurisdiction of the crime."

Art. IV., sec. 2, clause 2.

There is no

express grant to Congress. of legislative power to execute this
provision, and it is not, in its nature; self executing; but a
contemporary construction, contained in the act of 1793, 1
Stat. 302, ever since continued in force, and now embodied in
§§ 5278 and 5279 of the Revised Statutes, has established the
validity of its legislation on the subject. "This duty of providing by law," said Chief Justice Taney, delivering the opinion
of the court in .entucky v. .Deni8on, 24 How. 66, 104, "the
regulations necessary to carry this compact into execution, from
the nature of the duty and the object in view, was manifestly
devolved upon Congress; for, if it was left to the States, each
State might require different proof to authenticate the judicial
proceeding upon which the demand was founded; and as
the duty of the Governor of the State, where the fugitive was
found, is, in such cases, merely ministerial, without the right to
exercise either executive or judicial discretion, he could not
lawfully issue a warrant to arrest an individual without a law
of the State or of Congress to authorize it."
It follows, however, that, whenever the executive of the State,
upon whom such a demand has been made, by virtue of his
warrant, causes the arrest for delivery of a person charged as
a fugitive from the justice of another State, the prisoner is held
in custody only under color of authority derived from the Con.
stitution and laws of the United States, and is entitled to invoke the judgment of the judicial tribunals, whether of the
State or the United States, by the writ of .4abea8 corpu8, upon

the lawfulness of his arrest and imprisonment. The jurisdiction of the courts of the States is not excluded in such cases,
as was adjudged by this court in the case of-Rob v. Connolly,

ROBERTS v. REILLY.
Opinion of the Court.

111 U. S. 624-, for, although the party is restrained of his
liberty under color of authority derived from the laws of the
United States, he is not in the custody of, or under restraint
by, an officer of the United States.
The act of Congress Rev. Stat. § 5278 makes it the duty
of the executive authority of the State to which such person
has fled to cause the arrest of the alleged fugitive from justice,
whenever the executive authority of any State demands such
person as a fugitive from justice, and produces a copy of an
indictment found, or affidavit imade, before a magistrate of
any State, charging the person demanded with having committed a crime therein, certified as authentic by the governor or chief magistrate of the State from whence the person
so charged has fled.
It must appear, therefore, to the governor of the State to
whom such a demand is presented, before he can lawfully
comply with it, first, that the person demanded is substantially
charged with a crime against the laws of the State from whose
justice he is alleged to have fled, by an indictment or an
affidavit, certified as authentic by the governor of the State
making the demand; and, second, that the person demanded
is a fugitive from the justice of the State the executive authority of which makes the demand.
The first of these prerequisites is a question of law, and is
always open upon the face of the papers to judicial inquiry, on
an application for a discharge under a writ of Aabeas coripU8.
The second is a question of fact, which the governor of the
State upon whom the demand is made must decide, upon such
evidence as he may deem satisfactory How far his decision
may be reviewed judicially in proceedings in habeas cow)us, or
whether it is not conclusive, are questions not settled by
harmonious judicial decisions, nor by any authoritative judgment of this court. It is conceded that the determination of
the fact by the executive of the State in issuing his warrant of
arrest, upon a demand made on that ground, whether the writ
contains a recital of an express finding to that effect or not,
must be regarded as sufficient to justify the removal until the
presumption in its favor is overthrown by contrary proof.

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

Exarle Jeggel, 114. U. S. 642. Farther than th t it is not
necessary to go in the present case.
The objections taken in this proceeding to the sufficiency of
the indictment, which were overruled both in the District and
Circuit Courts, and which are still relied on here, are not well
founded. The indictment itself is certified by the dovernor of
New York to be authentic and to be duly authenticated, -which
is all that is required by the act of Congress. It charges ,a
crime under and against the laws of that State. It is immaterial that it does not appear that a certified copy of such laws.
was furnished to the governor of Georgia. The statute does
not require it, and the governor could have insisted, and it is
to be presumed did insist, upon the production of whatever he
deemed necessary or important properly to inform him on the
subject. And the courts of the United States, to whose process the relator has appealed, take judicial notice of the laws
of all the States.
The indictment in question sufficiently charges the substance
of a crime against the laws of -New York., The objection to
it, that it does not appear that the Bethlehem Iron Company,
averred to be the owner of the property the subject of the
larceny charged, is a person capable in law of such ownership,
is not matter of Jaw arising upon the face of the indictment,
but can arise only at the trial upon the evidence, if the question
should then be made. The averment in the indictment is the
allegation of a fact which does not seem to be impossible in
law, and is, therefore, traversable. The further objection, that
the facts and circumstances, set out in the affidavits, as constituting the crime charged in the indictment, show that it is
a crime in Georgia, and the possible subject of prosecution in
that State under its laws, does not affect the question. These
facts are, in brief, that the original taking of the bonds
mentioned in the indictment is shown to have been in Georgia,
whence they were brought into New York by the appellant, and there finally appropriated to his own use. If that
be true, it is none the less true that the offence charged is
also a crime in New York against its laws; and the State
of Georgia may choose to waive the exercise of its jurisdiction

ROBERTS v. REILLY.
Opinion of the Court.

by surrendering the fugitive to answer to the laws of New
York.
On the question of fact, whether the appellant was a fugitive
from the jusbice of the State of New York, there was direct
and positive proof before the governor of Georgia, forming
part of the record in this proceeding.
There is no other
evidence in the record which contradicts it. The appellant in
his affidavit does not deny that he was in the State of New
York about the date of the day laid in the indictment when
the offence is alleged to have been committed, and states, by
way of inference only, that he was not in that State on that
very day; and the fact that he has not been within the State
since the finding of the indictment is irrelevant and immaterial.
To be a fugitive from justice, in the sense of the act of Congress regulating the subject under consideration, it is not
necessary that the party charged should have left the State in
which the crime is alleged to have been committed, after an
indictment found, or for the purpose of avoiding a prosecution
anticipated or begun, but simply that having within a State
committed that which by its laws constitutes a crime, when he
is sought to be subjected to its criminal process to answer for
his offence, he has left its jurisdiction and is found within the
territory of another.
We find no error in the judgment of the Circuit Court, and
the same is
Affirme ; and it is directed that the order and judgment of
the District Court, remanding the appellant to the custody
of the rTespondent as the agent of the State of New Yon'k, be
executed.
ToL.

cxvi-7

