OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

if applied here, require an affirmance, we cannot depart from
the long-established dbctrine which makes it our duty to determine the rights of parties, where those rights depend upon the
local law, according to that law as judicially declared at the
time such rights accrued, or, in the absence of any such declaration, according to the law as, in. our judgment, it then was.
We are of opinion that the demurrer should have been overruled.
The judgment is reversed, with directionsfor further .wroceedings in eonformity with this opini.n.
Confarr v. The Township of Santa Anna. In error to the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of
Illinois. Th judgment in this case is, upon the authority of
Anderson v. The Township of Santa Anna, just decided,
.Reversed and the cause remanded ,for further proceedings in
conformity with the opinion it that case.

LITTLE, lReceiver, v. HACKETT.
ERROR TO

TIlE CIRCUIT

COURT

OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

DISTRICT OF NEW JERSEY.
Submitted November 11, 1885.-Decided January 4, 1,M8.

A person who hires a public hack and gives the driver directions as to the
place to which he wishes to be conveyed, but exercises no other control
over the conduct of the driver, is not responsible for his acts or negligence,
or prevented from recovering against a railroad company for injuries suffered from a collision of its train with the hack, caused by the negligence
of both the managers of the train and of the driver.
Thorogoog'v. Bryan, 8 C. B. 115i, disapproved.

On the' 28th of June, 1879, the plaintiff below, defendant in
error here, was injured by the collision of a train of the Central R ailroad Company of New Jersey with the carriage in
which he was riding; and this action was brought to recover

LITTLE v. HACKETT.
Statement of Facts.

damages for the injury. The railroad was at the time operated by a receiver of the company appointed by order of the
court of chancery of New Jersey. In consequence of his death
the defendant was appointed by the court his successor, and
subjected to his liabilities; and this action was prosecuted by
its permission.
It appears from the record that on the day mentioned the
plaintiff went on an excursion from Germantown in Pennsylvania to Long Branch in New Jersey with an association of
which he was a member. Whilst there he dined at the West
End Hotel, and after dinner hired a public hackney-coach from
a stand near the hotel, and taking a companion with him, was
driven along the beach to the pier where a steamboat was landing its passengers, and thence to the railroad station at the
West End. On arriving there he fourd he had time before
the train left to take a further drive, and directed the driver
to go through Hoey's Park, which was near by. The driver
thereupon turned the horses to go to the park, and in crossing
the railroad track near the station for that purpose, the carriage was struck by the engine of a passing train, and the
plaintiff received the injury complained of. The carriage belonged to a livery-stable keeper and was driven by a person in
his employ. It was an open carriage, with the seat of the
driver about two feet above that of the persons riding. The
evidence tended to show that the accident was the result of the
concurring negligence of the managers of the train and of the
driver of the carriage-of the managers of the train in not
giving the usual signals of its approach by ringing a bell and
blowing a whistle, and in not having a flagman on duty; and
of the driver of the carriage in turning the horses upon the
track without proper precautions to ascertain whether the
train 'was coming. The defence was contributory negligence
in driving on the track, the defendant contending that the
driver was thereby negligent, and that his negligence was to
be imputed to the plaintiff. The court left the question of the
negligence of the parties in charge of the train and of the driver
of the carriage to the jury, and no exception was taken to its
instructions on this head. Bul with reference to the alleged

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

imputed negligence of the plaintiff, assuming thAt the driver
was negligent, the court instructed them that unless the plaintiff interfered with the driver and controlled the manner of
his driving, his negligence could not be imputed to the
plaintiff.
"I charge you," said the presiding judge to them, "that
where a person hires a public hack or carriage, which at the
time is in the care of the driver, for the purpose of temporary
donveyance, and gives directions to the driver as to the place
or places to which he desires to be conveyed, and gives no
special directions as to his mode or manner of driving, he is
not responsible for the acts or negligence of the driver, and if
he sustains an injury by means of a collision between his carriage and another he may recover damages from any party. by
whose fault or negligence the injury occurred, whether that of
the driver of the carriage in which he is riding or of the driver
of the other; he may sue either. The negligence of the diiver
of the carriage in which he is riding will not prevent him from
recovering damages against the other driver, if he was negligent
at tiesame time."-" The passenger in the carriage may.direct
the driver where to go-to such a park or to such a place that
he wishes to see; so far the driver is under his direction; but
my charge to you is that, as to the manner of driving, the
driver of the carriage or the owner of the hack-in other
words, he who has charge of it and has charge of the teamis the person responsible for the manner of driving, and the
passenger is not responsible for that, unless -he interferes and
controls the matter by his own commands or requirements. If
the passenger requires the driver to drive with great speed
through a crowded street, and an injury should occur to foot
passengers or to anybody else, why, then, he might be liable,
because it was by his own command and direction that it was
done, but ordinarily in a public hack the passengers do not
control the driver, and therefore I hold that unless you believe
Mr. Hackett exercised control over the driver in this case, he
is not liable for what the driver did. If you believe he did exercise control, and required the driver to cross at this particular
time, then he would be liable because of his interference."

LITTLE v. HACKETT.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

The plaintiff recovered judgment, and this instruction was
alleged as error, for which its reversal was sought.
F I. Hall for plaintiff in
.3rt.B. F De Forest and MrM.
error.--If the driver of the carriage was the agent or servant
of the defendant in error, his negligence would be attributable
to the master. The leading English cases are Thorogood v.
Bryan, 8 C. B. 115, and Cattlin v. His, 8 C. B. 123, both apparently considered together.
The former was an action against the owner of an omnibus
for the negligence of his driver in running over' and killing a
passenger alighting in the street from another omnibus.
* The court held that the negligence of the driver of the oninibus from which the passenger 'was alighting prevented a
recovery, and placed the decision upon the ground of identity
between the passenger and his driver, and said:
"The negligence that is relied on as an excuse is not the
personal negligence of the party injured, but the negligence of
the driver of the omnibus in which he was a passenger. But
it appears to me that having trusted the party by selecting
the particular conveyance, the plaintiff has so far identified
himself with the owner and his servants, that if any injury
results from their negligence, he must be considered a party
to it."
This rule has been followed in-England. Bridge v. Grand
Junction Railway Co., 8 M. & W. 214; WFaite v. _North Ea8tern Railway Co., 7 Weekly Reporter, 311; Child v. Hearn,
22 Weekly Reporter, 961; A'rm8trong v. Lanca8hire& York8/ire Railway Co., L. R. 10 Exch. 47. In this country it has
been followed in its entirety in Pennsylvania. Philadelphia
& Reading Co. v. Boyer, 97 Penn. St. 91. In other States
there has been great diversity of opinion. Bennett v. New Jeraey Railroad Co., 36 N. J. L. (7 Yroom), 225; Chapman v. H2ew
Haven Railroad Co., 19 N. Y. 3,1; Brown v. FSew York Central Railroad Co., 32 N. Y. 597; Webster v. Huison River
Railroad Co., 38 N. Y. 260; Barrett v. Third Avenue Rail-roadCo., 45 N. Y. 628; Robinon v. New York Central Railroad Co., 66 N. Y. 11; Dyer v. Erie Railway Co., 71 N. Y.
VOL. CXVi -24

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

228; .fasterson v. NYew York Central Railroad Co., 84 N. Y.
.247; Smith v. Smith, 2 Pick. 691; Tranwfer Co. v. Kelly, 36
Ohio St. 86; Albion v. Hetrick, 90 Ind. 545; Toledo, Waash
& Western Railway Co. v. -Miller,76 Ill. 278; Cuddy v. Horn,
46 Mich. 596; Paynq v. Chicago & Rook Island Co., 39 Iowa,
523; Staford v. Oskaloosa, 57 iowa, 74:8; Prideauxv. JtinePal Point, 43 Wisc. 513; Otis v. Tranesville, 47 Wisc. 422; CalZahan v. Sharp, 27 Hun (34: N. Y. Supreme Ct.), 85. In the
latter, in which the facts were exactly similar to those in this
case, the court said: "It may be stated. for a general rule,
that where the relation of superior and subordinate exists, the
maxim respondeat superior has application coextensive with
the relation. IWhere a master temporarily lends his servant
to another, under whose immediate control he is for the time
being, and whose work he is doing, the master will not be
responsible for his servant's torts, committed during such
temporary employment by another.' Moaks' Underhill on
Torts, 42." The case was ,affirmed in the Court of Appeals
without an opinion. An examination of the briefs of counsel
shows that the points discussed in the opinion in Hun were the
points discussed in .the appellate court. See also .McGuire
v. Grant, 25 N. J. L. (1 Dutcher), 356; Blake v. .Ferriq, 5
N. Y' 48.
In view of these authorities and the. arguments sustaining
our position, contained in them, we submit -that the relationship of master and servant existed betwee them, and that the
negligence of the driver Brown is to be imputed to the defend'ant in error Hfackett. But if this court shall hold that the full
relationship of master and servant did not exist between the
defendant in error and the driver Brown, then we submit that
there still remained the power to control the driver, which was
inherent in the hiring, as well as to the manner of his driving
as to the places where he should go; that, the power existing,
it was the duty of the defendant in error to exercise that power,
o prevent a negligent act on the part of the driver, where
th&e was a known imminent danger being encountered, and
that by a failure to exercise such power the fgligence of the
driver is properly imputable to him.

LITTLE v. HACKETT.
Opinion of the Court.

.A,. Robert H. Hincl~~Zy and .Ar. Peter Z. FoThr.
r

for "de-

fendant in error.
MR'JusricO FiELD delivered the opinion of the court. After
stating the facts in the language reported above, he continued:
That one cannot recover damages for an injury to the commission of which he has directly contributed is a rule of establisbed law and a principle of common justice. And it matters
not whether that contribution consists in his participation in
the direct cause of the injury, or in hfis omission of dutieg
which, if performed, would have prevented it. If his fault,
whether of omission or commission, has been the proximate
cause of the injury, he is without remedy against one also in
the wrong. It would seem that the converse of this doctrine
should be accepted as sound-that when one has been injured by
the wrongful act of another, to which he has in no respect contributed, he should be entitled to compensation in damages from
the wrong-doer. And such is the generally received doctrine,
unless a contributory cause of the injury has been the negligence or fault of some person towards whom he sustains the
relation of superior or master, in which case the negligence is
imputed to him, though he may not have personally participated in or had knowledge of it; and he must bear the consequences. The doctrine may also be subject to other exceptions
growing out of the relation of larent and child, or guardian
and ward, and the like. Such a relation involves considerations which have no bearing upon the question before us.
To determine, therefore, the correctness of the instruction of
the court below-to the effect that if the plaintiff did not exercise control over the conduct of the driver at the time of the
accident he is not responsible for the driver's negligence, nor
precluded thereby from recovering in the action-we have
only to consider whether the relation of master and servant
existed between them. Plainly, that relation did not exist.
The driver was the servant of his employer, the livery-stable
keeper, who hired out him with horse and carriage, and was
responsible for his acts. Upon this point we have a decision
of the Court of Exchequer in Qarmrna v. Burnett, 6 M. & W.

,OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

'499, 507. In that case it appeared that the owners of a
chariot were in the habit of hiring for a day, or a drive, horses
and a coachman from a job-mistress, for which she charged
and received a certain sum. She paid the driver by the week
and the owners of the chariot gave him a gratuity for each
day's service. On one occasion he left the horses unattended
and they ran off and against the chaise of the plaintiff, seriously
injuring him and the chaise, and he brought an action against
,the owners of the chariot and obtained a verdict.; but it was
set aside on the ground that the coachman was the servant of
the job-mistress, who was responsible for his negligence. In
giving the opinion of the court, Baron Parke said: "It is undoubtedly true that there may be special circumstances which
may render the hirer of job-horses and servants responsible for
the neglect of a servant, though not liable by virtue of the
general relation of master and servant. He may become so by
his own conduct, as by taking the actual management of the
horses or ordering the servant to drive in a particular manner,
which occasions the damage complained of, or to absent himself at one particular moment, and the like." As none of
these circumstances existed it was held that the defendants were
not liable, because the relation of master and servant between
them and the driver did not exist.
This doctrine was approved and applied by the Queen's
Bench Division, in the recent case of .ones v. Corporationof
-Liverpool,14 Q. B. D. 890. The corporation owned a watercart and contracted with a Mrs. Dean for a horse and driver,
that it might be used in watering the streets. The horse belonged to her, and the driver she employed was not under the
control of the corporation otherwise than that its inspector
directed him what streets or portions of streets to water. Such
directions he was required to obey under the contract with
Mrs. Dean for his employment. The carriage of the plaintiff
was injured by the negligent driving of the cart, and, in an
action against the corporation for the injury, he recovered a
verdict, which was set aside upon the ground that the driver
was the servant of Mrs. Dean, who had hired both him and
the horse to the corporation.

LITTLE v. HACKETT.
Opinion of the Court.

In this country there are many decisions of courts of the
highest character to the same, effect, to some of which we shall
presently refer.
The doctrine resting upon the principle that no one is to be
denied a remedy for injuries sustained, without fault by him,
or by a party under his control and direction, is qualified by
cases in the English courts, wherein it is held that a party who
trusts himself to a public conveyance is in some way identified
with those who have it in charge, -7nd that he can only
recover against a wrong doer when they who are in charge
can recover. In other words, that their contributory negligence is imputable to him, so as to preclude his recovery for.
an injury when they by reason of such negligence could not
recover. The leading case to this effect is Tkorogood v.
Bryanz, decided by the Court of Common Pleas in 1819, 8 0.
B. 114. It there appeared that the husband of the plaintiff,
whose administratrix she was, was a passenger in an omnibus.
The defendant, Mrs. Bryan, was the proprietress of another
omnibus running on the same line of road. .Both vehicles had
started together and frequently passed each other, as either
stopped to take up or set down a passenger. The deceased,
wishing to alight, did not wait for the omnibus to draw up to
the curb, but got out whilst it was in motion, and far- enough
from the path to allow another carriage to pass on thenear
side. The defendant's omnibus, coming up at the moment, he
was run over, and in a few days afterwards died from the
injuries sustained. The court, among other things, instructed
the jury, that if they were of the opinion that want of care on
the part of the driver of the omnibus in which the deceased
was a passenger, in not drawing up to the curb to put him
down, had been conducive to the injury, the verdict must be
for the defendant, although her driver was also guilty of
negligence. The jury found for the defendant, and the court
discharged a rule for a new trial for misdirection, thus sustaining the instruction..The grounds of its decision were, as
stated by Mr. Justice Coltman, that the deceased, having
trusted the party by selecting the particular conveyance in
which he was carried, had so far identified himself with the

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

owner, and her servants, that if any injury resulted from their
negligence, he must be considered a party to it; "In other
words," to quote his language, "the passenger is so far identifled with the carriage in which he is' travelling, that want of
care on the part of the driver will be a defence of the driver of
the carriage which directly caused the injury." Mr. Justice
Maule, in the same case, said that the passenger "chose his
own conveyance and must take the consequences of any
default of the driver he thought fit to trust." AMr. Justice
Cresswell said: "If the driver of the omnibus the deceased
was in had, by his negligence or want of due care and skill,
contributed to any injury from a collision, his master clearly
.could maintain no action, and I must confess 'Isee no reason
why a passenger, who employs the driver to carry him, stands
in any dfferent position." Mr. Justice Williams added that
he was of the same opinion. He. said: "I think the
passenger must, for this purpose, be considered as identified
with the person having the management of the omnibus
he was conveyed by."
What is meant by the passenger being "identified with
the carriage,'" or "with the person having its management,"
is not very clear. In a. recent case, ir which the Court of
Exchequer applied the same test to a passenger in a
railway train, which collided with a iumb3r of loaded wagons
that were being shunted from a siding by the defendant,
another railway company, Baron Pollock said that he
understood it to mean "that the plaintiff, for the purpose
of the action, must be taken to be in the same position as
the owner of the omnibus or his driver." Armstrong v.
Zancea.,ire & Yok'shglde Railroad Co., L. R. 10 Ex. 47,
52. Assuming this to be the correct explanation, it is difficult
to see upon what principle the passenger can bc considered
to be in the same position with reference to the negligent
act as the driver who committed it, or as his master, the
owner. Cases cited from the English courts, as we have seen,
and numerous others decided in the courts of this country,
show that the relation of master and servant does not exist
between the passenger and the driver, or between the

LITTLE v. HACKETT.
Opinion of the Court.

passenger and the owner. In the absence of this relation, the.
imputation of their negligence to the passenger, where
no fault of omission or commission is chargeable to him, is
against all legal rules. If their negligence could be imputed to him, it would render him equally with them responsible to third parties thereby injured, and would also preclude
him from maintaining an action against the owner for injuries
received by reason of it. But neither of these conclusions can
bc maintained ; neither has the support of any adjudged cases
entitled to consideration.
The truth is, the decision in Tkworogood v. Br'yan rests upon
indefensible ground. The identification of the passenger with
the negligent driver or the owner, without his personal co-operation or encouragement, is a gratuitous assumption. There is
no such identity. The parties are not in the same position.
The owner of a public conveyance is a carrier, and the driver
or the person managing it is his servant. Neither of them is
the servant of the passenger, and his asserted identity with
them is contradicted by the daily experience of the world.
Thoegood v. B:.yan has not escaped criticism in the English
courts. In the court of admiralty it has been openly disregarded. In The i*lan, Dr. Lushington, the judge of the High
Court of Admiralty, in speaking of That case, said: "With due
respect to the judges who decided that case, I do not consider
that it is necessary for me to dissect tl.e judgment, but I decline to be bound by it, because it is a single case; because I
know, upon inquiry, that it has been doubted by high authori
ty; because it appears to me not reconcilable with other principles laid down at common law; and, lastly, because it is
directly against iiay v. La Yeve and the ordinary practice of
the court of admiralty." Lush. 388, 403.
In this country the doctrine of Tt'odood v. Bryan has not
been generally followed. In Ben'nett v. Xew .ersey Railroad
o., 36 N. J. L. (7 Vrom) 225, and Yew York, lake Erie &
Me,,tern Railroad Co. v. Steinbrenner, 47 N. J. L. (18 Vroom)
161, it was elaborately examined by the Supreme Court and the
Court of Errors of New Jersey, in opinions of marked ability
and learning, and was disapproved and rejected. In the frst

I OCTOBER TERM; 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

base it was held that the driver of a horse-car was not the
agent of the passenger so as to render the passenger chargeable for the driver's negligence. The car, in crossing the track
of the railroad company, was struck by its train, and the passenger was injured, and he brought an action against the company. On the trial the defendant contended that ,there was
evidence tending to show negligence by the driver of the horsecar, which was in part productive of the accident, and the
presiding judge was requested to charge the jury, that if this
was so, the plaintiff was not entitled to recover; but the court
instructed them that the carelessness of the driver would not
affect the action or bar the plaintiff's right to recover for the
negligence of the defendant. And this instruction was sustained by the court. In speaking of the "identification" of
the passenger in the omnibus with the driver, mentioned in
Thorogood v. Bryan, the court, by the Chief Justice, said:
"Suh identification could result only in one way, that is, by
considering such driver the servant of the passenger. I can
see no ground upon which such a relationship is to be founded.
In a practical point of view, it certainly does not exist. The
passenger has no control over the driver or agent in charge of
the vehicle. And it is this right to control the conduct of the
agent which is the foundation of the doctrine that the master
is to be affected by the acts of his servant. To hold that the
conductor of a street-car or of a railroad train'is the agent of
the numerous passengers who may chance to be in it, would be
a pure fiction. In reality there is no such agency, and if we
impute it, and correctly apply legal principles, the :passenger,
on the occurrence of an accident from the carelessness of the
person in charge of the vehicle in which he is being conveyed,
would be without any remedy. It is obvious, in a suit against
the proprietor of the car in which he was a passenger, there
could be no recovery if the driver or conductor of such car is
to be regarded as the servant of the passenger. And so, on
the same ground, each passenger would be liable to every person injured by the carelessness of such driver or conductor, because, if the negligence of such agent is to be attributed to the
passenger for one purpose, it would be entirely arbitrary to

LITTLE v. HACKETT.
Opinion 'of. the Court.

say that he is not to be affected by it for other purposes." 7
Vroom, 227, 228.
In the latter case it appeared that .the plaintiff had hired a;
coach and horses, with a driver, to take his family on a particular journey. In the course of the journey, while crossing the
track of the railroad, the coach was struck by a passing train
and the plaintiff was injured. In an action brought by him
against the railroad company, it was held that the relation of
master and servant did not exist between him and the driver,
and that the negligence of the latter, co-operating with that of
persons in charge of the train, which caused the accident, was
not imputable to the plaintiff, as contributory negligence, to,
bar his action.
In New York a similar conclusion has been reached. In
Claanmanv. New lavem,RailroadCo., 19 N. Y. 3,1, it appeared
that there was a collision between the trains of two railroad
companies, by which the plaintiff, a passenger in one of them,
was injured. The Court of Appeals of that State held that a
passenger by railroad was not so identified with the proprietors
of the train conveying him, or with their servants, as to be
responsible for their negligence, and that he might recover
against the proprietors of another train for injuries sustained
from a collision through their negligence, although there was
such negligence in the management of the train conveying him
as would have defeated an action by its owners. -In giving the
decision the court referred to Thorogood v. Bryan., and said
that it could pee no justice in the doctrine in connection with
that case, and that to attribute to the passenger the negligence
of the agents of the company, and thus bar his right to recover,
was not applying any existing exception to the general rule of
law, but was framing a new exception based on fiction and
inconsistent with justice. The case differed from Thorogood v.
Bryan in that the vehicle carrying the plaintiff was a railway
train instead of an omnibis, but the doctrine of the English
case, if sound, is as applicable to passengers on railway trains
as to passengers in an omnibus; and it was so applied, as
already stated, by the Court of Exchequer in the recent case of
Armslrong v. Eancashire& Yor1mhire Railroad Co.

OCTOBER TERM, .1885.
Opinion of the Court.

In Dyer v. Eric Railway Co. 71 N. Y. 228, the plaintiff was
injured while crossing the defendant's railroad track on a publie thoroughfare. He was riding in a wagon by the permission
and invitation of the owner of the horses and wagon. At that
time a train standing south of certain buildings, which prevented its being seen, had started to back over the crossing
without giving the driver of the wagon any warning of its
approach. The horses becoming frightened by the blowing
off of steam from engines in the vicinity, became unmanageable, and the plaintiff was thrown or jumped from the wagon,
and was injured by the train, which was backing. It was held
that no relation of principal and agent arose between the driver
of the wagon and the plaintiff, and, although he travelled voluntarily, he was not responsible for the negligence of the
driver, where he himself was not chargeable with negligence,
and there was no claim that the driver was not competent to
control and manage the horses.
A similar doctrine is maintained by the courts of Ohio. In
Transfer Company v. Zelly, 36 Ohio State, 86, 91, the plaintiff,
a passenger on a car owned by a street railroad company, was
injured by its collision with a car of the Transfer Company.
There was evidence tending to show that both companies wdre
negligent, but the court held that the plaintiff, he not being in
fault, could recover against the Transfer Company, and that the
concurrent negligence of the company on whose cars he was a
passepger could not be imputed to him, so as to charge him
with contributory negligence. The Chief Justice, in delivering
the opinion of the court, said: "It seems to us, therefore, that
the negligence of the company, or of its servants, should not be
imputed to the passenger, where such negligence contributes
to his injury jointly with the negligence of a third party, any
more than it should be so"imputed, where the negligence of the
company, or its servant, was the sole cause of the injury."
"Indeed," the Chief Justice added, "it seems as incredibile to
my mind that the right of a passenger to redress against a
stranger for an injury caused directly and proximately by the
latter's negligence, should be denied, on the ground that the
negligence of his carrier contributed to his injury, he being

LITTLE v. HACKETT.
Opinion of the Court.

without fault himself, as it would be to hold such passenger
responsible for the negligence of his carrier, whereby an injury
was inflicted upon a stranger. And of the last proposition it
is enough to say that it is simply absurd."
In the Supreme Court of Illinois the same doctrine is maintained. In the recent cases of the Wabash, St. Louis & Pacifie
Railway Co. v. Srhacklet, 105 IlL 364, the doctrine of Thorogood's case was examined and rejected, the court holding that,
where a passenger on a railway train is injured by the concurring negligence of servants of/the company on whose train he is
travelling, and of the servants of another company with whom
he has not contracted, there being no fault or negligence on
his part, he or his personal representatives may maintain an
action against either company in default, and will not be xestricted to an action against the company on whose train he
was travelling.
Similar decisions have been made in the courts of Kentucky,
Michigan, and California. Danville &c. Turnpike Co. v.
Stewart, 2 Met. (Ky.) 119; Louieville & CincinnatiRailroad
Co. v. Case, 9 Bush, 728; Cutddy v. Horn, 46 Mich. 596 ; Tornpkin v. Clay Street Railroad Co., 4 West Coast Reporter, 537.
There is no distinction in principle whether the passengers
be on a public conveyance like a railroad train or an omnibus,
or be on a hack hired from a public stand in the street for a
drive. Those on a hack do not become responsible for the negligence of the driver if they exercise no control over him further than to indicate the, route they wish to travel or the places
to which they wish to go. If he is their agent so that his negligence can be imputed to them to prevent their recovery
against a third party, he must be their agent in all other
respects, so far as the management of the carriage is concerned,
and responsibility to third parties would attach to them for injuries caused by his negligence in the course of his employment.
But, as we have already stated, responsibility cannot, within
any recognized rules of law, be fastened upon one who has in
no way interfered with and controlled in the matter causing
the injury. From the simple fact of hiring the carriage or riding in it no such liability can arise. The party hiring or riding

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Syllabus.

must in some way have co-operated in producing the injury
complained of before he incurs any liability for it. "If the
law were otherwise," as said by Mr. Justice Depue in his
elaborate opinion in the latest case in :New Jersey, "not only
the hirer of the coach but also all the passengers in it would be
under a constraint to mount the box and superintend the conduct of the driver in the management and control of his team,
or 1e put for remedy exclusively to an action against the irrsponsible driver or equally irresponsible owner of a coach, taken,
it may be, from a coach stand, for the consequences of an injury which was the product of the co-operating wrongful acts
of the driver and of a third person, and that, too, though the
passengers were ignorant of the character of the driver, and of
the responsibility of the owner of the team, and strangers to
the route over which they were to be carried." New York,
Iake Erie & Weter Railroad v. Sein.rener, 47 N. 1. L.
(18 Vroom), 161, 11.
In this case it was left to the jury to say whether the plaintiff had exercised any control over the conduct of the driver
further than to indicate the places to which he wished him to,
drive. The instruction of the court below, that unless he, did
exercise such control and require the driver to cros the track
at the time the collision occurred, the negligence of the driver
was not imputable to him, so as to bar his right of action
against the defendant, was therefore correct, and
The judgment must be affimed.

MOWER v. FLETCHER.
SAME v. SAME & Another.
ERROE TO THE SUPRFME COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.
Argued December 17, 18,18M5.-Decided January 4, 1886.

If the proper officers of the United States approve a selection of school lands in
disputed territory in California, outside the limits of an unsettled survey
by the United States of a private claim, and issue proper certified lists,

