OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Syllabus.

"And to so much of said charge as reads as follows: IBut
if it is not continuous or is not found in a crevice or opening
which is itself continuous, it cannot be called by that name.
In that case it lacks the individuality and extension which is
an essential quality of a lode or vein.' To which plaintiff's
counsel then and there excepted."
If the language here excepted to stood alone it would be cor'rect, though possibly too general or exclusive. Certainly the
lode or vein must be continuous in the sense that it can be
traced through the surrounding rocks, though slight interruptions of the mineral-bearing rock would not be alone sufficient
to destroy the identity of the vein. Nor would a short partial
closure of the fissure have that effect if a little farther on it
recurred again with mineral-bearing rock within it. And such
is the idea conveyed in the previous part of the charge. "On
the other hand," said the judge, "with well defined boundaries, very slight evidence of ore within such boundaries will
prove the existence of a lode. Such boundaries constitute a
fissure, and if in such fissure ore is fdund, alt ough at considerable intervals and in small quantitie, it is called a lode or
vein."
The charge seems to us to be as favorable to plaintiffs as the
principles we have laid down would justify.
We find no error in the record, and the judgment of the
Circuit Court is therefore
Affirmed.

OENTRAL RAILROAD COMPANY v. BOUIRBON
COUNTY.
ORiIGINAL MOTION IN A CAUSE PENDING IN ERROR TO THE COURT OF
AP'PEALS OF KENTUOKY.
Submitted January25, 1886.-Decided February 1, 1886.

Cases in which the execution of a State revenue law has been enjoined or
stayed, will be advanced only on motion of the State, or of the party claiming under the law, and on proof that the operations of the State government will be embarrassed by the delay.

CENTRAL RAILROAD CO. v. BOURBON COUNTY. 539
Statement of Facts.
This was a motion to advance, founded upon the following
allegations:
"That said action was brought for the recovery of alleged
delinquent taxes assessed and levied by the State Board of
Equalization of Kentucky upon that part of the Kentucky Central Railroad which is in Bourbon County in said State. The
assessments were made under and by virtue of an Act of the
General Assembly of the Commonwealth of Kentucky, approved
April 3, 1878, and entitled 'An act to prescribe the mode of
ascertaining the value of the property of railroad companies
for taxation, and for taxing the same.'
"U nder said act taxes were assessed and levied f9r andby
every city, town, and county through, or into which the Kentucky Central Railroad extends; and many suits, other, than
this, have been brought and are pending in the courts of Kentucky to collect said alleged taxes from the plaintiff in error.
Of course the assessments are constantly accumulating, and so
are the suits. This is one of the series of suits. It was brought
in the Bourbon Circuit Court, where judgment was rendered
against the plaintiff in error; on appeal, that judgment was
affirmed by the Court of Appeals of Kentucky, and on writ of
error, tlie case has been brought here. The determination of
the many suits that have been and are being brought is dependent upon the decision of this court in this case.
"All the cases involve the same questions of constitutional
law. Fhr'st: It is maintained that the Kentucky Central Railroad and its appurtenances are exempt from taxation by cities,
towns, and counties and for any local purpose, by reason of a
contract contained in the charter of the plaintiff in error, that
limits the exercise of the power of taxation as against the plain-,
tiff in error and its said property; that the act of April 3, 1818,
impairs the obligation of said contract, and is in conflict with
the Federal Constitution; that consequently the alleged taxes
sued for in this action, and in the numerous other like actions,
have no legal basis and are void. SecondZ: The contract contained in said charter limits taxation of plaintiff in error and
its said property for State revenue purposes to a specified tax
on every one hundred dollars of capital stock of the colporation.

OCTOBER TERM, 18s5.
Opinion of the Court. '

The act of April 3, 1878, attempts to authorize, for purposes
of State revenue, the laying of a greater tax, and in a different
mode and manner than said contract permits; and, therefore,
said act is, as to plaintiff in error, null and void because it is
violative of the Federal Constitution.
"The delay in the settlement of these questions affects to a
material extent the collection of State revenue by the Commonwealth; very largely affects and impedes the fiscal opertions of all the cities, towns, and counties through or into
which the Kentucky Central Railroad exfends; and oppresses
the plaintiff in error, and deranges its business." "Counsel for
defendant in error makes no objection to this motion, nor does
the Attorney-General of Kentucky."
Mr. ,: G. .Carlise, bn behalf of kr. J. F Stevenon, for
plaintiff in error submitted the motion.
No one opposing.
ME. CHIEF-JUSTICE WA=T delivered the opinion of the court.

This motion is denied. Oases in which'the execution of the
revenue laws of a State have been enjoined or stayed ire only
to be advanced on motion of the State or the party claiming
under such laws. Rev. Stat. ยง 949. Here the motion is made
by the party taxed, and the suit is by the ebunty claiming under the tax laws for the recovery of a tax. Inasmuch as the
county does not move we cannot presume that "the operations
of the government of the State will be embarrassed by delay."
Under the rule announced in Hoge v. Riekmond & -Danville
Railroad Co., 93 U. S.1, it must be shown that such W~ill be
the effect of delay before a case will be advanced, even on
motion by the State or those claiming under it.

