JONES v. SIMPSON.
Syllabus.

shown as between themselves by parol, and their liability to or
for each other grew out of that transaction.
As parties to it the defendants brought it into bankruptcy
that its holder might share in their assets or in the composition, and that they might then be discharged from any obligation on account of it.
The case is strikingly similar to that of Hatch v. Hatch, 28
Law Times, N. S. 506, Exch. Oh., in which a composition under
the English bankrupt law was held to discharge the debt.
The judgment of the St. Louis Court qf Appeals is reversed,
andthe case remanded to that courtfor further proceeding8
in accordancewith this opinion.
Xiebke v. Thomas. In error to the Supreme Court of Missouri.
The same judgment is to be entered in case No. 635 of this court's
docket, between the. same parties, on a writ of error to the Supreme Court of Missouri, according to a stipulation consolidating
the two cases for hearing in this court.

JONES & Another v. SIMPSON.
SAME v. HOISINGTON.
ERROR TO THE OIROUrI

cotRT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR TEM
DISTRICT OF KANSAS.

Submitted December 10, 1885.-Decided February 1, 1886.

A sale of personal property made by the, vendor with intent to defraud his
creditors, but for valuable consideration paid to him by the vendee, followed by actual and continued change of possession, is v'alid against the
vendor's creditors, unless it also appears that the vendee acted in bad faith.
This rule prevails in Kansas.
In the trial of an action by the vendee of personal property against an officer
seizing it on a writ of attachment issued at the suit of a creditor of the vendor to recover damages for the seizure, declarations of the vendor made
after delivery of the property to the vendee, but on the same day and fairly
VOL. cxVI-39

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of thl Court.
forming part of the res gestm, are admissible to show intent to defraud the
vendor's creditors by the sale, if it is also shown by independent evidence
that the iendee shared the intent to defraud with the vendor.
When at the trial of such an action it is proved that the vendor made the sale
with fraudulent intent to hinder and delay his creditors, the burden is
thrown upon the vendee -to prove payment of a sufficient consideration;
but this being established, the burden is then upon the creditors attacking
the sale to show bad faith in the vendee.

The facts which make the case are stated in the opinion of
the court.-Afr. J

. _Yohler for plaintiffs in error.

.Afr. Reginald Fendallfor defendants in error.
MnR. JUSTIC, HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.
These actions-one against the United States marshal for
'the District of Kansas, and the other against the sheriff of one
of the counties. of that State-were brought to recover damages
for an alleged wrongful seizure and bonversion, by those oficers, of certain goods and chattels which plaintiffs in error,
who were plaintiffs below, claimed to have purchased, prior to
such seizure, from G. & M. Goldsmith. The seizure, in each
case, was made in virtue of attachments sued out by creditors
of said -vendors. The defence is, that the property'was liable
to seizure as the property of the defendants in the attdchments.
Whether it was so liable depends upon the inquiry whether
the sale to the plaintiffs passed a good title as against the
creditors of the vendors. The defendants insist that it was
nade with the fraudulent purpose, on the part of the vendors,
of cheating, hindering, and delaying their creditors, and that
the vendees either intended by their purchase to aid in accomplishing that result, or, at and before their purchase, were
chargeable in law with notice of the fraud designed by the
vendors.
It is unnecessary to set out all the facts which, according to
.the bill of exceptions, the evidence tended to establish. For
the purpose of indicating the grounds upon which the case will
be determined, it need only be said that while there was

JONES v. SIMPSON.
Opinion of the Court.

evidence tending to show the payment by plaintiffs of the fair
value of the property, its actual delivery to them at the time
of the sale, and their continued possession of it until seized under these attachments, there was, also, evidence tending to
prove that the circumstances attending the transaction were so
unusual and suspicious as to suggest to business men, of ordinary prudence, the purpose of the vendors to hinder or defraud
their creditors. And from all the facts the jury might reasonably have concluded that the plaintiffs were willing, by purchasing the property, to aid the vendors in defeating any
efforts of their creditors, by the ordinary -process of the law, to
obtain satisfaction of their demands. The correctness of this
interpretation of the conduct of the parties to the sale is sustained by the admissions and declarations of the vendors,
made so nearly contemporaneous with the delivery of the
property that they may be said to have sprung out of the very
transaction in virtue of which the plaintiffs claim title.
It is, however, contended that the admissions of the vendors,
after the sale and delivery of the property, not in the presence
of the vendees, were not competent evidence against the latter.
We had occasion, at the present term, in Winchester & Partri(dge .JfaruqfadturingCo. v. C'eary, ante, 161, to consider this
question in a somewhat different aspect. In holding in that
case that the court erred in admitting the declarations of a
vendor in evidence against the vendee of personal property;
which had been delivered before any suit by attaching creditors,
it was said: "After the sale, their [the vendors'] interest in the
property was gone. Having become strangers to the title their
admissions are no more binding on the vendee than the admissions of others. It is against all principle that their declarations, made after they had parted with the title and surrendered possession, should be allowed to destroy the title of their
vendee." But it was also said that such admissions or declarations would be competent against the vendee, if it were shown
by independent evidence that the vendor and vendee were engaged in a common purpose to defraud the creditors of the
vendor, and the admissions had such relation to the execution
of such purpose as fairly to constitute a part of the res gestm.

OCTOBER TERM, 1S8'5.
Opinion of the Court.

These conditions seem to be fully met in the present case; for
the facts which the evidence tended to establish, apart from
the admissions and declarations of the vendors, indicate collusion between them and their vendees for the purpose of delaying the creditors of the former, and that such admissions and
declarations, though not precisely concurrent in time with the
sale, were made in the course of the same day, and were plainly
in furtherance of the common design to delay the creditors of
the vendors. .Upon these grounds we think that those admissions and declarations of the vendors were admissible against
the plaintiffs. There were other objections by plaintiffs to the
admission of evidence, but they need not be specially noticed.
At the trial the plaintiffs asked the court to instruct the jury,
that if they believed from the evidence "that the goods in
controversy were sold and delivered to Jones & Weil before
any attachment was made or issued, that they took possession
of the goods after the sale, that the change of possession was
actual and visible, such a change as to indicate to persons who
,had previously done business at the store where the goods
were that 'Max S. & Gus. Goldsmith had no longer possession
or P6ntrol of the goods, that the sale was for an approximate
price, and for a valuable consideration paid by plaintiffs to
Goldsmiths, the jury will find for the plaintiffs." This instruction was properly refused; for, the facts stated in it did
not entitle the plaintiffs to a verdict, if the evidence showed
either that their purchase was not in good faith, or was made
-with knowledge at the time of such facts and circumstances as
reasonably put them upon inquiry as to the purpose of the
vendors, to hinder and delay their creditors. And the same
criticism may be made upon the instruction asked by the plaintiffs to the effect that, "if Goldsmith had purchased the goods
on time, and those debts were not due, for the goods, the goods
were the absolute property of the Goldsmiths, and they had
a lawful right to s611 and dispose of any and all of the goods
in their possession without any regard to their creditors; and
if they did so sell the goods to Jones & Weil before their debts
were due, and plaintiffs took possession of them, the title of the
goods passed to Jones & Weil, and they were not, after such sale

JONES v. SIMPSON.

613

Cpinion of the Court.

and delivery, liable to attachment for the debts of Goldsmith,
and, if so attached, Jones & Wel could either replevy thegoods or treat such seizure as a sale and sue for the value of
the goods."
The record contains numerous instructions given to the jury,
at the request of the defendants, and to the granting of which
the plaintiffs excepted. We perceive no defect in any of them
except the last one, which is in these words: "If the jury
believe that Gus. and Max S. Goldsmith sold the goods to the
plaintiffs, with the intention to hinder, delay, or defraud their
creditors, then the plaintiffs, before they can recover, must
show, by a preponderance of the evidence, that they bought
the goods, for a good and valuable consideration, and that they
acted in good faith in making said purchase. It is not sufficient that they paid a valuable consideration, even should you
find that to be a fact. If plaintiff did not act in good faith in
making the purchase, it is void, although they paid a full consideration."
This instruction was clearly erroneous. It is unwarranted
either by the laws of Kansas or by the principles of the common
,aw. By the second section of the statute of Kansas for the
prevention of frauds and perjuries, it is provided that "every
gift, grant, or conveyance of lands, tenements, hereditamerits,
rents, goods or chattels, and every bond, judgment or execution
made or obtained with intent to hinder, delay or defraud
creditors of their just and lawful debts or damages, or to
defraud or to deceive the person or persons who shall purchase
such lands, tenements, hereditaments, rents, goods or chattels,
shall be deemed utterly void and of no effect." And by the
third section of the same act it is further provided, that "every
sale or conveyance of personal property, unaccompanied by an
actual and continued change of possession, shall be deemed
void, as against purchasers without notice, and existing or subsequent creditors, until it is shown that such sale was made in
good faith and upon a sufficient consideration." Act of October 31, 1868, 1 Dassler's Kansas Stat., ch. 43, p. 441; Compiled'
Laws of Kansas, 1879, ch. 43. If the second section embraces
such a sale of goods and chattels as the one here involved, it

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

is not to be supposed that the legislature intended, in every case,
to deprive the vendee of personal property, who buys in good
faith and for a valuable consideration, of the benefit of his purchase simply because the vendor sold with the intent to hinder,
delay, or defraud his creditors; for, the third section protects
such-apurchaser, even where there has not been an actual and
.continued change of possession, upon his showing that he bought
in good faith and upon sufficient consideration. The necessary
implication from the language of tbat section is that where the
sale is followed by an actual and continued change of possession the vendee is not obliged, in order to maintain his right of
possession, to prove both the payment of a sufficient consideration and the exercise of good faith upon his part. His title,
where such possession is shown, will be protected, unless it is
successfully impeached by some one who has the right to question its validity. The party who asserts that the title did not
pass as against him must make such proof as will establish that
proposition. If he does not, the presumption which the law
indulges that the vendee has rightfully acquired possession will
control the determination of the issue. Upon its appearing that
the vendor-possession having been delivered-made the sale
with the fraudulent intent to hinder or delay his creditors, the
utmost which the creditors could claim is that the burden of
proof is upon the vendee, as between him and existing creditors,
to show, by competent proof, that he paid a sufficient consideration for the prQperty. But such payment being shown, the
vendee is entitled to a verdict and judgment,-however fraudulent may have been the intent of the vendor-unless it appears
affirmatively, from all the circumstances, that he purchased in
bad faith. And such bad faith may exist where the vendee
'purchases with knowledge of the fraudulent intent of the vendor, or under such circumstances as shbuld put him on inquiry
as to the object for which the vendor sells.
There can be no doubt that these principles are in accordance
with the settled course of decision in the highest court of
Kansas. In the recent case of Bcaugcman, ShS7erif, v. Penn, 6
Pacific Reporter, 890, which was an action of replevin to recover personal property, which had been seized as the property

JONES v. SIMPSON.
Opinion of the Court.

of Howard Bros., who were defendants in certain attachment
suits, but which property the plaintiffs in those suits claimed to
have purchased from the debtors prior to the attachments being issued, that court said: "A further objection is made to
the direction given by the court, ' that fraud is never presumed,
but must be established by evidence.' Of the correctness bf
this proposition, or of its application to the case, there should
be no question; but counsel seemed to argue that the burden
of proof was upon the plaintiff to show that he did not participate in the fraud now conceded to have been intended by the
Howard Bros. Fraud is not so lightly imputed. While certain circumstances will give rise to an inference of fraud, yet
the law never presumes it. It devolves on him who alleges
fraud to show the same by satisfactory proof. And the burden
rested upon the creditors of Howard Bros., who assailed the
good faith of Penn in this transaction, to show, by either direct
or circumstantial evidence, that the transaction was fraudulent
as to Penn. As the trial court stated, ' the law presumes, in the
absence of evidence to the contrary, that the business transactions of every man are done in good faith and for an honest
purpose; and any one who alleges that such acts are done in
bad faith, or for a dishonest and fraudulent purpose, takes upon
himself the business of showing the same."' See also Tilson
v. _Fullei; 9 Kansas, 176, 187; Diefendorf v. Oliver, 8 Kansas,
297; Wofy v. ?ieing, 8 Kansas, 297; Prewitv. WTilson, 103
U. S. 22, 24; Stewart v. Thomas, 15 Gray, 171; Elliott v. Stoddard, 98 Mass. 145; .Hatchv. Bayley, 12 Cush. 27, 30; Cooke
v. Cooke, 43 Maryland 522, 533.
There was, as we have seen, evidence tending to show that
plaintiffs paid a sufficient consideration for the property, and
that there was such a change of. possession as is required by the
statute. And as the jury were erroneously instructed that they
must find for the defendants, unless the plaintiffs showed, by
a preponderance of evidence, both the payment of a good and
valuable consideration and good faith in the transaction,
The judgments mu8t,for that error, be reversed, and the cases
remandedfor a new trial.

