RENAUD v. ABBOTT.
Syllabus.

introduce evidence in explanation of those circumstances, and
tending to show that the stamp in question was not removed
by any person, without defacing and destroying the same at
the time of removal, but was in fact detached and removed
from the cask or package without human agency, and by the
accidental intervention of other causes.
Proceeding to dispose of the questions certified specifically,
we answer the first, fourth, fifth and eighth questions in the
negative, and the seventh in the affirmative. The second,
third and sixth questions we decline to answer, because the
answers given to the other questions necessarily dispose of the
whole case, and because we cannot answer them without a
more complete statement of the facts on which they are supposed to have arisen than is furnished by the present record.
Tie cause -is remanded, with directions to takefurther proceedings therein, not inconsistentwith this opinion ; and it
is so ordered.

RENAUD v. ABBOTT.
ERROR TO TE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF

inW EA

s!PSHIRM.

Argued April 7, 8, 18SS.-Decided January 4, MSS.
A service of citation of a writ of error to a court of a State, made upon the defendant in error in another State by the marshal of the latter State, is an
irregularity which can only be taken advantage of by motion to dismiss
made promptly, on an appearanec3 limited to that special purpose.
Upon a writ of error to a State court, the question whether on the death of a
party after judgment another party was properly substituted in that
court, before the suing out of the writ of error, is a question of practice
which the State court has exclusive right to determine, and is not reviewable here.
This court, upon writ of error to the highest court of a State, takes judicial
notice of the law of another State, where by the local law that court takes
judicial notice of it.
Under Art. IV. section 1 of the Constitution, and . 905 of the Revised Statutes,
a judgment recovered in one State against two joint defendants, one of
whom has been duly summoned and the other has not, and which is valid
and enforceable by the law of that State against the former alone, will
support an action against him in another State.

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

This was an action of debt in theSupreme Court of New
Hampshire, on a judgment recovered in a court of Louisiana in
favor of one Wilbur, as syndic for his creditors, on a joint cause
of action against Joseph S. Abbott and Edward A. Abbott
as copartners. The record in Louisiana showed that service
was nade against Joseph S. Abbott alone, and that judgment
was entered against both. The action in New Hampshire was
brought against the administrator of Joseph S. Abbott, (who
had died), without joining Edward A. Abbott. The plea was
nuZ tiel record. Other facts in the case are stated in the
opinion of the court, to which reference is made. The case was
referred to a referee, whose report of the facts was "reserved
and assigned for the -consideration of the whole court.". The
whole court held that though the judgment was valid in
Louisiana, it was invalid in New Hampshire as "the record
showed in the joint judgment the fatal defect of notice to one
only of the defendants," and gave judgment for defendant.
After the entry of judgment, Renaud appeared and by petition
informed the Supreme Court of New Hampshire of the decease
of Wilbur, and of his own election as syndic in Wilbur's place,
and prayed to be substituted as plaintiff in Wilbur's place for
the purpose of removing the cause into this cort by writ of
error, and the writ was allowed in Renaud's name.
.Afr. Assistant Attorney-GeneralMAaury for plaintiff in error.
.P. Toma J Semmes and -Y. -RobertMifott filed a brief for
same.
Mrt.Samuel C. Eastman for defendant in error.-I. There
is no Federal question before the court. a. It is true that the
Supreme Court of New Hampshire considered and passed upon
the effect of a certain judgment of the Fifth District Court of
New Orleans, and decided that for want of jurisdiction it was
an invalid 'judgment. Whether the State court made or did
not make a mistake as to the particular reason for want of
jurisdiction, still if the want of jurisdiction plainly appears from
the record there is no Federal question, for the State court
could and oiroperly should have decided as it did. Murdock

RENAUD v. ABBOTT.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

v. Xemphi8, 20 Wall. 590; Brown v. Aiwell, 92 U. S. 327,
329; Citizens' Bank v. Board of Liquidation, 98 U. S. 140.
b. Plaintiff declare. on a joint judgment against I. S. and E.
A. Abbott. No reason isgiven for not joining the latter, while
it appears that he could have been joined. This could have
been taken advantage of by motion in arrest of judgment if
judgment had been against defendant. Gilman v. Rives, 10
Pet. 298. Therefore the State judgment should stand, whether
right or wrong.
H1. The Supreme Court of New Hampshire held that a general joint judgment against two non-residents upon default, on
service on one only, is void as to both. In this there is no
error. To maintain a suit on a judgment in any other State
than that where rendered, when there was no appearance, the.
record must show service on the defendants within the limits
of the State whose court is claiming the jurisdiction.
.Uarris
v. lfardeman, 14 How. 334; Hart v. Sansom, 110 U. S. 151.
There was no service on E. A. Abbott. The judgment as to
him is therefore a nullity. D'Arcy v. -Ketchum, 11 How. 165 ;
Board of Public Works v. Columbia College, 17 Wall. 521;
Hall .v. Lanning, 91 U. S. 160, 167. The judgment declared
on, being void as to one of the defendants, is void as to both,
and cannot be the foundation of an action in any other State.
Hall v. Williams, 6 Pick. 232; Holbrook v. .turray, 5 Wend.
161; R1chards v. YWalters, 12 Johns. 43-; Rangely v. Webster,
11 N. H1. 299; Steel v. Smith, 7 W. & S. 447; Smith v. Smith,
17 Ill. 482; Buffum v. Ramsdell, 55 Maine, 252; KYnavp v.
Abell, 10 Allen, 485; Mfckay v. Gordon, 34 N. J. 286; Hanley
v. Donoghue, 59 Maryland, 239. These cases are all in State
courts. But this court has impliedly adopted the principle.
Gilman v. Rives, above cited; Thompson v. W7itman, 18 Wall.
457. Mere error makes a judgment voidable; want of jurisdiction makes it void, and unavailable for any purpose. -Eatonv.Badger, 33 N. H. 228, 237; Carleton v. W-ashington -Ins. Co.,
35 N. H. 162; Jitdkins v. Union Ins. (o., 37 N. ]H. 470;
Conery v. Rotechford, 34 La. Ann. 520; Boswell's Lessee v. Otis,
9 H1ow. 336; Bischoff v. lfethered, 9 Wall. 812; Laurent v.
Beelman, 30 La. Ann. 363. This justifies the conclusion of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

New Hampshire court. This court has uniformly held that a
writ of error, sued out by one of two persons, against whom a
joint judgment is rendered, without a summons and severance or
,equivalent proceeding, must be dismissed. Faielmanv. Pack,
ard, 108 U. S. 14. This is the rule of common law. Comyn's
Dig., Pl. 3, B. 9.
III. A judgment may be valid by the law of a State, and yet
the courts of other States are not estopped to examine it as to
jurisdictional facts. See Hal v. Lanning, above cited; Perwyer v. 2Nef 95 U. S. 714; Ins. Co. v. !Bangs,103 U. S. 435;
&. Cxlair v. Cox, 106 U. S. 350, 353; Panu v. Bowler, 107 U.
S.529, 545. No court, deriving its authority from another
government, will recognize a merely constructive service as
bringing a person within the jurisdiction of the court. Hart
v. Sansom, cited above.
IV. The judgment in No. 17,608, called the nullity suit, was
only that the record in No. 16,987 as to service could not be
contradicted. The Supreme Court of New Hampshire did not
contradict this fact by its findings. The only judgment pronounced in the nullity suit was on jurisdictional facts, which
can always be examined into. No suit is brought on that judgment. Its validity and effect are therefore not in controversy,
and the court might have passed it by without a word. If the
first judgment is valid, there is no need of resorting to this to
support it. If the first judgment is a nullity, nothing which
occurs afterwards will give it vitality. "The validity of every
judgment depends upon the jurisdiction of the court before it
is rendered, not upon what may occur subsequently." Pennoyer v. Hqef, 95 U. S., above cited.
MA.TrHws delivered the opinion of the court.
The writ of error in this case was sued out and allowed by
the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of New Hampshire, on
June 13, 1882, returnable to October Term, 1882, of this court.
The transcript of the record was filed here July 14, 1882, and
the defendant in error entered his appearance, through counsel, on July 28, 1882, which, though special in terms, was not
limited to any particular purpose.
Mi .JusTicE

RENAUD v. ABBOTT. '
Opinion of the Court.

At October Term, 1883, a motion was filed to dismiss the
cause on two grounds: 1, because the citation had been served
on the defendant in error, in Massachusetts by the marshal of
that district; and, 2, because the present plaintiff in error.had
been improperly substituted as successor to the plaintiff in the
judgment sought to be reviewed. This motion to dismiss,
although submitted to the court at that term, was postponed
until the hearing on the merits. So far as the first ground-is
involved it comes too late. The alleged irregularity in the service of the citation could, at any rate, only have been taken
advantage of by a motion to dismiss, made promptly on an
appearance limited to that special purpose, and was cured by
such an appearance as was entered in this case. United State
v. Yate8, 6 How. 606, 608; Buckinghaxm v. .fc.ean, 13 How.
150.
The judgment sought to be reviewed was rendered in. favor
of the defendant, in a suit brought by Isaac L. Wilbur upon a
judgment rendered in his favor, as syndic of his creditors under
the laws of Louisiana, in the Fifth District Court of New Orleans, in that State. Wilbur having died in July, 1881, after
the judgment against him in the Supreme Court of New Hampshire, William H. Renaud thereupon, on June 12, 1882, on his
petition, showing that he had been appointed under the laws
of Louisiana to succeed Wilbur as syndic of his creditors, was
substituted as plaintiff in the judgment, and allowed to prosecute a writ of error to this court. It was the province of the
Supreme Court of New Hampshire to permit this substitution,
and its action in doing so is not open to objection by the defendant in error in this court. We receive the transcript of
the record in the cause as it is certified to us by that court, in
answer to the precept of the writ of error allowed and issued
to that end. When brought here it is open to examination
only for the purpose of deciding whether it contains a Federal
question within our jurisdiction, and .if so, whether there is
,error in the decision of that question by the Supreme Court of
fhe State. Whether the present plaintiff in error ought to
have been substituted for the deceased plaintiff in the judgment to be reviewed was a question of practice under the laws

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

of New Hampshire, which the Supreme Court of that State
had the exclusive right to determine. It is not open to any
inquiry on our part under the present writ.
The action was in debt brought by Wilbur upon a judgment
alleged to have .been recovered by him in the Fifth District
Court of the City of New Orleans, in the State of Louisiana,
against Joseph S. Abbott, then in full life, and one Edward A.
Abbott, for the sum of $23,383.69, with interest thereon from
November 1, 1862, as damages in a certain cause then pending
in said court between the said plaintiff and the said Joseph S.
Abbott and Edward A. Abbott, as copartners under the name
of J. S. & E. A. Abbott, and for costs of suit. Edward A.
Abbott, as administrator.of Joseph S. Abbott, alone was sued.
The plea was wul tiel Tecord,.
The plaintiff offered in evidence a duly certified transcript
of the record of the judgment sued on. From that it appeared
that the citation and copy of the petition were returned by the
sheriff, served on J. S. Abbott, one of the defendants, personally, on December 28, 1866. No service on the other defendant appears to have been made. Judgment was afterwards
entered therein as follows:
"I. L. Wilbur, Syndic, &c.,)
V8.

No. 16,981.

X. S. & E. A. Abbott.

"On motion of E. C. Mix, of counsel for plaintiff, and on
introducing due proof of the claim of said plaintiff"It is ordered and adjudged that the default herein entered
'on the eleventh of January, 1867, be now confirmed and made
final, and that plaintiff, I. L. Wilbur, in his capacity as syndic
of his creditors and of the creditors of Wilbur and Borge, recover of the defendants, Joseph S. and Edward A. Abbott,
wlo reside in Concord, in the State of New Hampshire, are
commercial partners there doing business under the style and
firm of J. S. & E. A. Abbott, in solido, the sum of twentythree thousand three hundred and eighty-three R-A dollars,
with legal interest from the first of November, 1862, until
paid, and costs of suit.

RENAUD v. ABBOTT.
Opinion of the Court.

"Judgment rendered 19th January, 1867. Signed 24th
January, 1867.
(Signed)
GaAs. LEAumoNT, Judge."
The defendant objected to this transcript as evidence on the
ground that the record disclosed a judgme nt that was void,
because it was a joint judgment against two with service [of]
process upon one only.
But the plaintiff supplemented the proof by offering in.
evidence the transcript of another judgment rendered in the
same court, in a proceeding numbered 17,608, in which Joseph
S. Abbott and Edward A. Abbott were plaintiffs and the said
Isaac L. Wilbur was defendant, being a suit in which the
plaintiffs sought to obtain a decree of nullity of the judgment
against them in the former action numbered 16,987.
The petition in this suit of nullity set forth the judgment
it sought to annul, recited the proceedings in which it was
rendered, and averred "that no service of a copy of the petition or citation in said suit was ever made on them, either individually or collectively, personally or otherwise," and "that
the return of the sheriff that personalpservice of a copy of the
petition and citation was made on J. S. Abbott, one of your
petitioners and defendant in said suit, is not true." The prayer
was that, for this reason, the said judgment be declared to be
absolutely null and void and of no effect.
To this petition Wilbur, the defendant .therein, answered as
follows:
"Now comes the defendant, I.L. Wilbur, syndic, &c., of his
creditors and the creditors of Wilbur & Co., Wilbur & Arnot,
and Wilbur & Borge, and for answer to the petition of the
plaintiffs denies all and singular the allegations therein contained, and avers that the judgment in suit No. 16,987 on the
docket of this court, sought to be annulled, is a valid judgment
rendered on citation of proper parities, and cannot be impeached.
"This respondent further pleads that the plaintiffs have
judicially admitted that they were properly cited in said suit
No. 16,987, and are estopped to deny citation in said suit for

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

this: That said plaintiffs after the institution of said suit
against them in this court, and after judgment rendered in
said suit No. 16,987, did -institute a suit in the Third District
Court of New Orleans against Frank Borge, as a partner of
the firm of Wilbur & Borge, said suit being entitled J. S. & E.
A. A&bbott vs. Frank Borge, and numbered 21,376 on the
docket of said Third District Court, and the said Frank Borge,
to protect liimself as a partner, as aforesaid, from the unjust
demand of the plaintiffs, set up and made in said suit in the
Third District Court a reconventionai claim or demand against
the plaintiffs for the matters and things, and for the same cause
of action which constituted the basis of the judgment now
sought to be annulled, and this respondent intervened and
made himself, as syndic, a party to said reconventional demand, and the said plaintiffs in this suit and the plaintiffs in
said suit No. 21,376, in the Third District Court aforesaid,
being the same parties, did, for the purpose of defeating and
causing the dismissal of Said reconventional demand in the
Third District Court aforesaid, plead to the same the judgment
aforesaid rendered against them by this court in said suit No.
16,987, now sought to .be annulled, and set the same up and
made use thereof as a defence to said reconventional demand
as in the nature of a plea of ls penden8, and the said Third
District Court recognized said plea of lis pendens, and refused
to hear any evidence as to the reconventional demand of said
Borge as partner, as aforesaid, and dismissed the same, and
gave judgment in favor of plaintiffs for their original demand.
"Wherefore this respondent avers that plaintiffs, having used
the said suit No. 16,987 and the judgment therein rendered in
manner aforesaid, are precluded from allegingthat no such
suit was pending and no such judgment was iendered, as in
point of law there is no suit and no judgment ivithout citation,
and hence respondent avers that plaintiffs have judicially confessed .they were parties defendants to said suit No. 16,987,
and to the judgment therein rendered, and that said suit and
judgment were valid."
'This action of nullity resulted in a judgment, signed May 7,
1868, as follows : "This cause came on to-day for trial, when,

RENAUD v. ABBOTT.
Opinion of the Court.

after hearing pleadings, evidence, and counsel, and for the
reasons orally assigned, it is adjudged and decreed that this
suit be dismissed with judgment in favor of defendant, I. L.
Wilbur." From this judgment a devolutive appeal was granted
and taken to the Supreme Court of Louisiana, by which court
it was affirmed for reasons set out in an opinion forming part
of the record put in evidence in the present case, and thus embodied in the record before us. The following extract from
that opinion sufficiently shows the ground of the judgment:
"Returning to the facts of this case, we find the plaintiffs
in the Third District Court defeating a large demand of defendant by the plea that there was then pending in the Fifth
District Court a suit against them for the same demand by the
same party. They thus declared judicially that they had been
cited in the Fifth District Court, and they made this assertion
to their own benefit and to the injury of the opposite party,
and they cannot be heard now to say that their assertion -was
false, and that the person on whom service of citation was
made was not of the commercial firm." Abbott v. Wilbur, 22
La. Ann. 368.
There was no evidence in the present case, except the foregoing two transcripts, and it is upon them that the questions
of law, decided by the Supreme Court of New Hampshire, have
arisen.
That court, whose opinion is certified to us in the record, in
affirming the judgment of the court of original jurisdiction in
New Hampshire in favor of the defendant, proceeded on the
ground that, by the common law in force in New Hampshire,
a joint judgment against two defendants is void as to both
where only one is served with process, and, although valid by
the law of Louisiana where it was rendered, can have no other
effect when sued on in New Hampshire than if it had been
rendered in the latter State. This court, upon writ of error
to the highest court of a State, does not take judicial notice of
the law of another State, not proved in that court and made
part of the record sent up, unless by the local law that court
takes judicial notice of it. 1-an ley v. Donoghue, ante, 1. But
the Supreme Court of New Hampshire took judicial notice, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

rightfully, we are bound to assume, under the law and practice
6f that State, of the law of Louisiana on the point, citing
Article 182 of the Code of Practice of 1853, as follows:
-"Nevertheless, if the defendants are husband and wife, or
-minors interdicted, or absent persons having the same curator,
or persons represented by the same attorney in fact, or
partners of the same firm or members of the same corporation, it will be sufficient to deliver one citation and one single
copy of the petition to the person representing such defendIt thereupon says: "This statute sustains the plainants."
tiffs' contention on this point, and shows that the judgment on
which this suit is brought is valid in Louisiana. But it is nevertheless invalid in New Hampshire because it is invalid by New
Hampshire law; would be invalid if it had been rendered in
New Hampshire, and because the Constitution and laws gave
it no more force or effect than it would have if it had been
rendered here."
So the judgment in the action of nullity, in which both the
Abbotts were actors and by -which they were both bound, is a
direct adjudication by the Supreme Court of Louisiana that
the original judgment now sued on, although process was
served upon one defendant only, was a valid judgment by the
laws of that State. And on the point of the estoppel, based
on the judgment in the action of nullity, the Supreme Court of
New Hampshire said: "The res acjudieata iz the Louisiana
decision that these defendants asserted that the first judgment
was valid in Louisiana by the law of that State, and were by
Louisiana ]aw estopped to assert the contrary. The defendants do not now assert the contrary. They assert that if in
Louisiana, by the law of that State, the first judgment is valid,
with notice given to one of the defendants, it is not valid here,
and that if they are estopped to assert that it is invalid in
Louisiana upon the law of Louisiana, they are not estopped to
assert that it is invalid in New Hampshire by the law of New
Hampshire."
But the act of Congress of 'Kay 26, 1790, ch. 11, 1 Stat.
122, now ยง 905 of the Revised Statutes, passed in pursuance of
the express authority of the first section of the fourth article

RENAUD v. ABBOTT.
Opinion of the Court.

of the Constitution of the United States, prescribes the manner in which the records and judicial proceedings of the
courts of any State shall be authenticated and proved, and
enacts that "the said records and judicial proceedings so
authenticated shall have such faith and credit given to them
in every court within the United States as they have by law
or usage in the courts of the State from which they are
taken." In Hanley v. .Donoghue, ubi supra, it was said: "By
the settled construction of these provisions of the Constitution
and statutes of the United States a judgment of a State
court, in a cause within its jurisdiction and against a defendant lawfully summoned, or against lawfully attached property
of an absent defendant, is entitled to as much force and effect
against the person summoned or the property attached, when
the question is presented for decision in a court of another
State, as it has in the State in which it was rendered."
The act of Congress has been restricted in its application by
a series of decisions of.this court to judgments of State courts,
when they had jurisdiction ..of the cause and of the parties;
and in actions brought on such judgments in other States, it
has always been held that it was open to a defendant,
whether sued alone or jointly with others, to show by plea
and proof that he had not been served with process or had
not voluntarily appeared. D'Arcy v. Kfetchumn, 11 How. 165;
Thorasom v. Whitman, 18 Wall. 457; Knowles v. Gas-light
and Coke Co., 19 Wall. 58; Hall v. Lannrng, 91 U. S. 160.
On the other hand, it has never been denied, that, as was said
in Jianley v. Donoghue, ubi sa{pra, "It is within the power of
the legislature of a State to enact that judgments which shall
be rendered in its courts in actions against joint defendants,
one of whom has not been duly served with process, shall be
valid as to those who have been so served, or who have appeared in the action." In H-all v. Lanning, ubi &upra,it was
said: "Various effects and consequences are attributed to such
judgments in the States i which they are rendered. They
are generally held to bind the common property of the joint
debtors, as well as the sepa ate property of those served with
process, when such property is situated in the State, but not

'OCTOBER TERN, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

the separate property of those not served, and whilst they
are binding personally on the former, they are regarded as
either not personally binding at all, or only pri-rn facie binding on the latter."
It is .not material in the present case to inquire into or to
know what effect the laws of Louisiana purport to give to the
judgment sued on in respect to Edward A. Abbott, one of
the defendants not served with process and, who did not appear
in the action, because he is not sued in the present action. If
he had been joined in this action, the record itself showing that
he was not subject to the jurisdiction of the court rendering
the judgment, his defence would have been apparent and perfect ; and the judgment in the action of nullity might perhaps
be restrained as an estoppel, to prevent him only from asserting the invalidity of the judgment, to the extent and for the
purposes merely for which he had used and enforced it
judicially in Louisiana. However that may be, it is not and
cannot be denied that the judgment in Louisiana here sued on
is effective and conclusive as a personal obligation against
Joseph S. Abbott, who was. within the jurisdiction of the
court by personal service of process, and enforceable within
that State against him severally, notwithstanding it was a
joint judgment against two, of whom he alone was served.
The same effect should have been given to it when the administrator of Joseph S. Abbott was sued upon it in :New Hampshire, for such is the requirement of the act of Congress. The
principle which protects a person against the operation of
judicial proceedings to which he is not a party is one of universal jurisprudence, because it is the dictate of common justice.
Pennoyer v. 3ef, 95.U. S. 714. But the rule that exonerates
a defendant actually served with process from the obligation
of a judgment, because rendered also against another who has
not been served, and therefore is not bound, is purely techni.
cal, and when by the local law, according to which such a
judgment has been rendered, a different rule has been established, which enforces the personal obligation of the defend-

ant who has been served or who has appeared in the action,
the act of Congress requires that the same effect shall be

kOBlE' v. WATSON.

289.

Statement of Facts.

given to it in every other State in which it mdy be sued on,
whatever may be the rule that there prevails in respect to its
domestic judgments. Such was the ground of decision in
Burt v. -Delano,4 Cliff. 611, 618, and in Stockwell v. AHCrackem,
109 Mass. 84, as well as in the case of Hanley v. Donoghue,
already referred to.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of 2New Hampshire is
reversed, and the cause is remanded, with instructionsto
to take such further proceedings therein as are not inconaistnt with this opinion.

MOBILE v. WATSON.
SAME v. UNITED STATES, ex rel. WATSON.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF ALABANMA.
Argued December 10, 11, 188.-Decided January4, 188.

When a mhunicipal corporation with fixed boundaries is dissolved by law, and
a new corporation is created by the legislature for the same general purposes, but with new boundaries, embracing less territory but containing sub:
stantially the same population, the great mass of the taxable property, and
the corporate property of the old corporation which passes without consideration and for the same uses, the debts of the old corporation fall upon the
new corporation as its legal successor; and powers of taxation to pay them,
which it had at the time of their creation and which entered into the contracts, also survive and pass into the new corporation.

The object of the first of these suits was the recovery of a
judgment for money, and of the second the enforcement, by
the writ of mandamus, of the judgment recovered in the first.
They were argued as one case. In the first case Henry Watson, the defendant in error, was the plaintiff in the Circuit
Court. He brought his action against, the Port of Mobile to
recover the principal money due on certain bonds issued by the
City of Mobile, under its corporate name, "The Mayor, Aldermen anq Common Council of the City of Mobile," and the
v6. cxv-19

