OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

looking over the entire field of service, they brought in everything which, in their opinion, could be of use to the court in
determining what would be a reasonable compensation for the
service rendered, subject to the requirement of the statute that
it should not be more than was paid to private parties for the
same kind of service. The question to be determined was one
of fact, as much so as the amount of recovery in any action
quantum meruit. A conclusion could only be reached by considering all the testimony, weighing the facts, and estimating
their comparative value as evidence. This presented in no
just sense a question of law. Every fact that was proven according to the motion was simply evidence, and as evidence
had performed its entire office when the facts were found. It
has no place in the record which is to come here for review.
The motion i8 denied.

BURNETT v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROMt THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
Submitted November 93, 1885.-Decided December 21, 1885.

The pension which widows are entitled to receive under the provision of Rev.
Stat. ' 4702, is the pension for total disability which is granted to those en;
titled to receive it by Rev. Stat. ยง 4695.

This was an appeal from the Court of Claims. The facts are
stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. A. Z. -ferriam for appellant.
.AXr. Solicitor-Generaland Xir. John . Blair for appellee.
MRi.

JusncE HA.&AN

delivered the opinion of the court.

By an act of Congress of March 3, 1879, 20 Stat. 665, ch.
290, the Secretary of the Interior was directed to place on the
pension-roll the name of Ward B. Burnett, and pay him a pension of $50 per month in lieu of the pension then received by

BURNETT v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

him. The subsequent act of June 16, 1880, 21 Stat. 281, ch.
236, provides that all soldiers then receiving a pension of $50
per mouth, under the provisions of the act of June 18, 1874,
entitled "An Act to increase the pension of soldiers and sailors
who have been totally disabled," 18 Stat. 78, ch. 298, shall
receive, in lieu of all pensions then paid to them by the United
States, the sum of $72 per month; those whose pensions were
thus increased from $50 to $72 per month, to receive the difference between those sums monthly, from June 17, 1878, to
the date when that act took effect.
On the 17th of July, 1882, Gen. Burnett received from the
Department of the Interior a certificate showing that ho was
entitled to a pension "for gun-shot wounds of left leg and
rheumatism" at the rate of $30 per month, to commence on
the 1st of August, 1848, and $31.25 per month from June 4,
1872, and $50 per month from June 4, 1874, and $72 per
month from June 17, 1878.
By an act approved July 25, 1882, 22 Stat. 174, 176, ch. 349,
it is provided that no person then receiving, or who should
thereafter receive, a pension under a special act, shall receive,
in addition thereto, a pension under the general law, unless the
special act expressly states that the pension granted thereby is
in addition to the pension which such person is entitled to receive under the general law.
Gen. Burnett died on June 24, 1884, from the effect of
wounds received in the war with Mexico. The appellant, his
widow, claims the same pension-$72 per month-that her
husband was receiving at his death. The Interior Department
granted her a certificate for a .pension at the rate of only $30
per month, to continue from June 24, 1884, during her widowhood. Her claim for a larger pension having been denied, the
matter was referred by the Department to the Court of Claims.
The claimant, in her prition in that court, asked for judgment
against the United States for $210, that being the difference
between $30 per month and $72 per month from the date of
her husband's death to the commencement of this action. A
demurrer by the government to the petition having been sustained, the case has been brought to this court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Courb.

The only question presented by the parties for our consideration is whether, under existing statutes, the widow of Gen.
Burnett is entitled to the same pension that he was receiving at
his death.
Section 4692 of the IRevised Statutes provides that "every
person specified in the several classes enumerated in 'section
4693,' who has been, since the fourth day of March, eighteen
hundred and sixty-one, or who is hereafter disabled, under the
be placed on the list
conditions therein stated, shall .
of invalid pensioners of the United States, and be entitled to
receive for a total disability, or a permanent specific disability,
such pension as is hereafter provided in such cases, and for an
inferior disability, except in cases of permanent specific disability, for which the rate of pension is expressly provided, an
amount proportionate to that provided for total disability, and
such pension shall commence as hereinafter provided and continue during the existence of the disability."
Section 4693 specifies who shall be beneficiaries under the
preceding section, among whom is "any officer of the army,
including regulars, volunteers, or militia,

.

.

. disabled by

reason of any wound or injury received, oi disease contracted,
while in the service of the United States and in the line of
duty."
Section 4695 provides that "the pension for total disability
shall be . . . for lieutenant-colonels and all officers of
higher rank in the military service . . . thirty dollars per

month." Other sections fix the amount of pensions in cases of
disabilities known as permanent specific disability and inferior
disability.
It is then provided, by section 4'T02, that "if any person embraced within the provisions of sections forty-six hundred and
ninety-two and forty-six hundred and ninety-three has died
sinde the fourth day of.March, eighteen hundred and sixty-one,
or hereafter dies by reason of any wound, injury, or disease,
which, under the conditions and limitations of such sections,
would have entitled him to an invalid pension had he been disabled, his widow

.

.

. shall be entitled to receive the same

pension as the husband or father would have been entitled to

WINCHESTER & PARTRIDGE MFG. CO. v. CREARY. 161
Syllabus.
had he been totally disabled, to commence from the death of
the husband or father, to continue to the widow during her
widowhood," &c.
It would seem to be too clear for discussion that the construction which the court placed upon these statutory provisions
is correct. It is not to be doubted that the words "total disability" in the pension laws has a technical signification which
cannot be disregarded. And when the statute fixes $30 per
month as the pension, in case of total disability, of an officer
of the rank of 'eneral
Burnett, and declares that his widow
shall receive the same pension as her husband would have received had he been "totally disabled," there is no room left for
a construction that would give her a pension in excess of that
amount. If it is supposed that the law operates unjustly against
the officers and soldiers who became "totally disabled" in the
service, or that an unreasonable distinction is made between different kinds of disability, the remedy is with another department of the government. The courts must give effect to the
intention of Congress as manifested by the statute. They cannot make, but can only declare the law.
Affirmed.
The judgment is

WINCHESTER & PARTRIDGE
IANUFACTURING
COMPANY v. CREARY & Others.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR THE

WESTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
Argued November 17,18, 1885.-Decided December 21,1885.

The declarations of a vendor of personal property made to a third party after
sale and delivery of the property to the vendee, are not admissible in an
action by the vendee against an officer seizing it on a writ of attachment
as the property of the vendor, in order to show,fraud, or conspiracy to defraud, in the sale.

A person whom a purchaser of personal property from a debtor in failing circumstances puts into possession of the property after the sale as his agent

to manage it, cannot afterwards make declarations respecting the character
VOL. cXvi--l

