MARVEL v. MERRITT.
Opinion of the Court.

MARVEL v. MERRITT, Collector.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Argued November 23, 1885.-Decided December 14, ISS8.

Iron ore is subject to the duty of twenty per centum ad valorem imposed by
Rev. Stat. ยง 2504 upon "Mineral and bituminous substances in a crude
state not otherwise provided for."

The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
21'. B. F. Zee for plaintiff in error submitted on his brief.
.Xr. Solicitor-General argued on behalf of defendant in
error.
MTTHEmws delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiff in error brought his action to recover duties
paid by him and exacted, as he claims, in excess of those imposed by law, upon certain quantities of iron ore imported by
him into the port of New York in 1879.
The single question involved in the suit arose under the
Tariff Act of 1874, being Title XXXIII, Rev. Stat.
The plaintiff was assessed and compelled to pay a duty of
20 per centum ad valorem on his importations as coming
within the provision in Schedule" M, Sundries, Rev. Stat.
ยง 2504, for "mineral and bituminous substances in a crude
state not otherwise provided for." He claimed that iron ore
was dutiable upon a proper classification as "an unmanufactured article not herein enumerated or provided for," and subject only to a duty of ten per cent. ad valorer, under the
provisions of Rev. Stat. ยง 2516.
On the trial below, the plaintiff offered evidence to show
that iron ore was known to the trade commercially only under
that name, and that scientifically considered it was a metallic
and not a mineral substance, but the offer was rejected by the
court. It was proven that iron ore was not a bituminous substance.
MR. JUSTICE

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

The court instructed the jury, there being no disputed question of fact arising upon the evidence as admitted, to return a
verdict for the defendant. Judgment was rendered thereon
accordingly, to reverse which this writ of error has been
brought.
The Tariff Act of 1874, Rev. Stat. Title XXXIII, under

whiclh this case arises, does not expressly enumerate iron ore as
the subject of duty. It is not on the free list, and is to be
found, if at all, classified under some general description. The
language in Schedule M, Sundries, Rev. Stat.. 2d Ed. 478, is:

-

"Mineral and bituminous substances in a crude state, not
otherwise provided for, twenty per centum ad valorem." This
is to be taken distributively, so as to cover all snbstances
within the description, whether mineral or bituminous, or
both, and is not to be confined to those which combine both
characters.
The words used are not technical, either as having a special
sense by commercial usage, nor as having a scientific meaning
different from their popular meaning. They are the words of
common speech, and, as such, their interpretation is within the
judicial knowledge, and, therefore, matter of law. Webster, in
his Dictionary, defines the noun mineral as "any inorganic
species having a defifiite chemical composition," and ore as
"the compound of a metal and some other substance, as oxygen, sulphur, or arsenic, called its mineralizer, by which its
properties are disguised or lost." The word mineral is evidently derived from mine, as being that which is usually obtained from a mine, and, accordingly, 'Webster defines the
latter as "a pit or excavation in the earth from which metallic
ores or other mineral substance8 are taken by digging, distinguished from the pits from which stones only are taken and
which are called quarries."
*.
The importations of iron ore in question, therefore, were
properly subjected to a duty of twenty per centum ad valorem,as
a mineral substance in sits'crude state not otherwise provided for.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is jccordingly
Affirmed.

