LIEBKE v. THOMAS.
Syllabus.

in the resolution without violating his contract with the plaintiffs. After the water rents for 1875 had been attached in the
suit brought by Hale and had been pledged by the Park Ditch'
Company to its sureties in that suit, and Woolfolk, to aid the
company in compromising the case, had released a claim of
$8000 against it, and all claims for professional services rendered in the suit by himself and other counsel whom he had
employed, and all claim' for the moneys expended by him in
the defence of the suit, and had consented to the other exactions imposed by Hale, it can hardly be said that the $1725,
the gross sum received by Woolfolk, if in fact he evez received
it, was the net proceeds of the water rents, "after dedacting all
costs, charges, and expenses." It does not appear by the evidence that there were any net proceeds of the water rents: on
the contrary it appears. there were not.
It needs no argument to show that the contract sued on was
not meant to bind the defendant to pay over to the plaintiffs
money obtained under the circumstances set out in the resolutions of the board of trustees. There is no other evidence 'to
show the receipt of money by the defendant from the assets or
resources of the Park Ditch Company. The case of the plaintiffs must, therefore, fail for want of any evidence to show a
breach of the contract made by the defendant with them.
Their suit is without support. The record fails to show any
plausible ground for bringing it in the first instance or for suing
out the present writ of error.

Judgment afrmed.

LIEBKE *& Another v. THOMAS.
EOR TO THE ST. LOUTS COURT OF APPEALS IN THE STATE
OF 31ISSOURI.
Submitte January 8,1886.-Decided February 1, 1886.

Notice given to the holder and owner of an accommodation note, under § 17 of
the act of June 22. 1874, of composition proceedings in bankruptcy by or
against the payee and indorser for whose accommodation the note was given,

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.
is notice of the original bankruptcy proceedings to the accommodation
maker, and notice that the payee may be discharged thereby.
A lawful composition with creditors under § 17 of the act of June 22, 1874, and
its performance by the party, has the effect of a discharge in bankruptcy.

This was an action by the maker of an accommodation note
against the payee for whose accommodation it was made.
Judgment for plaintiff below, which this writ of error was
sued out to review.
.2r.G. f. Sewart for plaintiffs in error.
-Yr. Upton, ff. Young and .Xr. Alkander Young for defendant in error.
MiLL.ER delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the St. Louis Court of Appeals in
the State of Missouri.
The defendant in error brought his action in the Circuit
Court for the City of St. Louis against the plaintiffs in error,
Liebke and Schrage. His petition alleged that on the Sth day
of August, 1877, he executed and delivered to defendants, who
were partners in trade, his promissory note, payable to their
order, for the sum of $500, in three months after date. That
the defendants sold said note to the lvullanphy Bank of St.
Louis, to which plaintiff, on the 14th day of November, paid
the amount of it, less a small sum credited on it as paid by defendants. The sum paid by plaintiff when he took it up from
the bank w~s $435. He alleges that the note was made and
delivered to defendants for their use and accommodation, and
it was agreed that they would take care of and pay the same
when it became due, and hold plaintiff harmless in regard to it.
He further alleges that defendants have failed and refused
to pay him any part of said $435, and still refuse to do so,
wherefore he prays judgment for the $435, with interest and
costs.
The answer of defendants sets up an adjudication of bankruptcy against them October 13, 1877, a composition in bank.
ruptcy under the act of Congress, duly agreed upon at a

MRt. JusTi

LIEBKE v. THOMAS.
Opinion of the Court.

meeting of the creditors, and confirmed by the court, in which
compliance with the requirements of the law as .to such composition is fully set out, and they plead this and the payment
of the composition note in bar of the plaintiff's action.
A general denial was made for replication, and the case was
tried by the court without a jury. The Circuit Court gave
judgment for plaintiff, and, on appeal to the St. Louis Court of
Appeals, this judgment was affirmed.
That court, in its opinion, found in 9 Missouri App. 424,
bases its decision mainly on, the proposition that Thomas, the
present plaintiff, was entitled to notice of the composition
meeting, and had no such notice.
The facts in the case are, that the composition proceedings
took place before or about the time of the maturity of the note.
The note was then the property of the Mullanphy lBank. This
bank had notice of these proceedings, accepted the composition
note of defendants for thirty per cent. of the amount of the
debt, according to the terms of the composition, and received
the money paid on that note. We think the bank was the
owner of the note, the party entitled to be dealt with in the
composition proceedings, to take part in them, and receive the
money paid under them. All this it did.
Mr. Thomas must be held in law to have had notice of the
original bankruptcy proceedings, and that the defendants
might be discharged under those proceedings. If he preferred
to take part in them rather than entrust the claim to the bank,
he could have paid the note and set up his claim as provided in
§ 5070 of the Revised Statutes. He did not do this, but permitted the bank to represent that debt, which, as owner of it,
it had a right to do, and to receive the composition money.
Mr. Thomas has not been hurt by this; for there is no reason
to believe that he would have successfully opposed the composition or received anything more under it than the bank did.
It can hardly be held that Mr. Thomas stood in any better
condition than a person liable for the bankrupt as bail, security,
guarantee, or otherwise, who has not paid the debt. § 5070
Revised Statutes.
It is of the essence of the bankrupt law that when the bank-

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

rlupt has complied with all the conditions of the statute and surrendered his property he should be released from all his debts,
except those of a fiduciary character or founded in fraud, of
which this is not one. And the case of Wilmot v. bdgqe, 103
U. S. 217, decides that though no written discharge be granted,
a ]awful composition and its performance by the party has the
same effect. That case holds that § 17 of the act of 1874, which
governs this case, is a part of the bankrupt law, and the proceedings under it discharge all debts which can be discharged
under the law, as to creditors "whose names and addresses, and
the amount of the debts due -to whom, are shown in the statement of the debtor produced at the meeting at which the resolution shall have been passed."
As evidence that it is the holder of the promissory note who
is to Be named in the schedule as one having the right to appear at the composition meeting, the statute 18 Stat. 182, § 17,
says: "Where a debt arises on a bill of exchange or promissory
note, if the debtor shall be ignorant of the holder of such bill
of exchange or promissory note, he shall be required to state
the amount of such bill or note, the date on which it falls due,
the name of the acceptor and of the person to whom i is payable, and any other particulars within his knowledge respecting
,the same; and the insertion of such particulars shall be deemed
a sufficient deecription by the debtor in. respect to such debt."
. As the statute requires that the composition resolution to be
valid "must be passed by a majority in number and threefourths in value of the creditors of the debtor," the above mode
of identifying the creditor and the amount of his debt shows
that it is not indispensable that every person contingently interested in a debt of the bankrupt should have notice or take part
in the composition proceedings.
It is argued that the liability of defendants to Thomas is not
on the note, but on their promise to pay it at maturity. We
cannot take this view of it. The note is the essential part of
the transaction, and without its payment by Thomas he had no
cause of action against defendants. They were both parties to
the note and both liable on it to the bank who held it when it
became due. Which was principal and which security could be

JONES v. SIMPSON.
Syllabus.

shown as between themselves by parol, and their liability to or
for each other grew out of that transaction.
As parties to it the defendants brought it into bankruptcy
that its holder might share in their assets or in the composition, and that they might then be discharged from any obligation on account of it.
The case is strikingly similar to that of Hatch v. Hatch, 28
Law Times, N. S. 506, Exch. Oh., in which a composition under
the English bankrupt law was held to discharge the debt.
The judgment of the St. Louis Court qf Appeals is reversed,
andthe case remanded to that courtfor further proceeding8
in accordancewith this opinion.
Xiebke v. Thomas. In error to the Supreme Court of Missouri.
The same judgment is to be entered in case No. 635 of this court's
docket, between the. same parties, on a writ of error to the Supreme Court of Missouri, according to a stipulation consolidating
the two cases for hearing in this court.

JONES & Another v. SIMPSON.
SAME v. HOISINGTON.
ERROR TO THE OIROUrI

cotRT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR TEM
DISTRICT OF KANSAS.

Submitted December 10, 1885.-Decided February 1, 1886.

A sale of personal property made by the, vendor with intent to defraud his
creditors, but for valuable consideration paid to him by the vendee, followed by actual and continued change of possession, is v'alid against the
vendor's creditors, unless it also appears that the vendee acted in bad faith.
This rule prevails in Kansas.
In the trial of an action by the vendee of personal property against an officer
seizing it on a writ of attachment issued at the suit of a creditor of the vendor to recover damages for the seizure, declarations of the vendor made
after delivery of the property to the vendee, but on the same day and fairly
VOL. cxVI-39

