OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

had Aindt become a partner in the firm of Drennen, Starr &
Everett. But the ,sale or transfer to which the policies refer
was one that would pass an interest in the property itself.
Mere participation in profits would give no such interest contrary to.the real intention of the parties. Persons cannot be
made to assume the relation of partners, as between themselves,
,when their purpose is that no partnership shall exist. There is
no reason why they may. not enter into an agreement whereby
one of them shall participate in the profits arising from the
-management of particular property without his becoming a
partner with the others, or.without his acquiring an interest in
the property itself, so as to effect a change of title. As the
'charge to the jury was in accordance with these principles, and
as the evidence conclusively showed that Arndt did not, prior
to the loss, acquire an interest in, or any control of, the property insured, but was only entitled to participate in the profits
arising from its management after a named date, there is no
reason to disturb the judgment. It is, therefore,

-Afirmed.

PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD COMPANY v. ST.
LOUIS, ALTON ANhD TERRE HAUTE RAILROAD

COMPANY.
ST. LOUIS, ALTON AND TERRE HAUTE RAILROAD COMPANY v. PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD
COMPANY.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURtT OF THE UqITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF INDIANA.

After argument of the cause is heard, the court of its own motion gives counsel
an opportunity to file printed arguments on a plea to the jurisdiction which
was overruled in the Circuit Court, and was not argued here.

These cases were argued on the 14th and 15th of Jahuary,
1886, by .21r. John .. Butler and Xr'. Josepk . 3feDonald
for the St. Louis, Alton and Terre Haute Railroad Company,

PENNSYLVANIA R.R. CO. v. ST. LOUIS, &o. R.R. CO. 43,
Announcement by the Court.

and by Mr.. Stevenom Burke and .Mr. A8hey Pond for the
Pennsylvania Railroad Company.
MR. OHYEF'UsTIOE WArrE, on the 25th day of the same January, made the following announcement:
The St. Louis, Alton and Terre Haute Railroad Company,
the complainant in this case, is described in the bill as "a body
politic and corporate, duly organized and existing under and by
virtue of the laws of the Stafe of Illinois, and a citizen of the
State of Illinois." It is also averred in the bill that, "1under
and by virtue of the statutes of the States of Indiana and Illinois, your orator was and is the owner of a railroad extending
from the city of Terre Haute, . . . in the State of Indiana,
to East St. Louis, . . . in the State of Illinois,
having power to operate its said road under the laws of said
States. And that, for all the equities sought by this bill, the
complainant represents the corporption by the same name with
complainant created and existing under aud by virtue of the
statutes of Indiana." In the "operating contract," so-called,
made Exhibit B to the bill, the complainant is described as "a
corporation duly formed and organized under the laws of the
said State of Indiana, and also duly formed and organized under
the laws of the State of Illinois." Some of the defendants are
Indiana corporations, and so alleged to be in the bill. A plea
to the jurisdiction of the court was interposed by the defendant, the Indianapolis and St. Louis Railroad Company, on the
ground that the complainant was in fact a corporation of
Indiana, and, therefore, not a citizen of a different State from'
all, the defendants. This plea was overruled by the Circuit
Court. No error has been assigned on this ruling, and it was
not referred to in the argument here. We do not, however,
feel at liberty to pass it by unnoticed. Counsel may, if they
desire to do so, file printed arguments on that question, together
with copies of the statutes the consideration of which is involved, at any time before February 20.

