OBERTEUFFER v. ROBERTSON.
Syllabus.

induce a court of equity to afford relief. It follows that neither
in a court of law nor a court of equity can the defendant maintain his suit on the cause of action set up in his answer by way
of counter-claim or cross-action.
Judgmnent affimed.

OBERTEUFFER & Another v. ROBERTSON.
ERROR TO

TIE CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORR.
Argued January 6, 7, 1886.-Decided January 25, 1886.

Under section 7 of the act of March 3, 1883, 22 Stat. 523, the cost or value of
paper cartons or boxes, in which hosiery and gloves are packed, in Germany, and transported to the United States, and the cost or value of flie
packing of the goods in the cartons, and of the cartons in an outer case,
are not dutiable items, either by themselves, or as part of the market value
abroad of the goods, unless the cartons are of a material or form desigae
to evade duties thereon, or are designed for use otherwise than in the bona
fide transportation of the goods to the United States.
Where the cartons are of the usual kind known to the trade before the act of
1883 was passed, as customarily used for covering and transporting such
goods, and are intended to accompany them and remain with them, in the
hands of the retail dealer, until the goods are sold to the consumer, they
are designed for use in the bona fidle transportation of the goods to the
United States, within the meaning of the act, and their cost or value is not
a dutiable item.
Where the importer is not dissatisfied with the appraisement of his goods per
8e, but only with the addition to the entry of items for cartons and packing, his proper remedy is not to apply for a re-appraisement, but to protest
and appeal.

This was an action brought to recover back duties alleged
to have been illegally exacted. The facts which make the case
are stated in the opinion of the court.
31r. Edwin B. Smil for plaintiffs in error. .r'. Chares
Currie, .Ar. Step/ en G. Clarke and Mr. Rrilliam Stanley were
with him on the brief.

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

Hr. golioitor-Generalfor defendant in error.
Rt.JusTicE BLATCaFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an action brought in a State Court in New York, by
Reece M. Oberteuffor, Hcnry Abegg and Henry H. Doeniker,
composing the mercantile firm of Oberteuffer, Abegg & Daen.
iker, against William IL Robertson, Collector of the port of
New York, to recover $140.80 as an excess of duties, paid on
'c6verings and putting up charges on hosiery and gloves, on
which ad 'valorem duties were imposed by law. It was re,moved into the Circuit Court of the United States by the
defendant. At the trial the jury rendered a verdict for the
defendant, by direction of the court, and there was a judgment
for him, for costs, to review which the plaintiffs have brought
a writ of error.
In July, 1883, the plaintiffs imported from Bremen 2 cases
of wool gloves, Nos. 4836, 4837; 21 cases of cotton hosiery,
Nos. 4852 to 4872; and one other case of cotton hosiery, No.
168. There were three invoices covered by one entry.
The invoice of the 2 cases of gloves was dated at Leipzig and
Chemnitz, in Saxony, June 29, 1883, and was of goods purchased by the plaintiffs. It covered 500 dozen of gloves, in 5
items, the prices of which per dozen were given, and amounted
to 2415 marks. There was a deduction of 3 per cent. discount
for cash, or 72 marks, 45 pfennigs, leaving 2342 marks, 55
pfennigs. 'There was then added, under the item of "packing
charges," 25 marks "for cases," 220 marks "boxes," and 5
marks "packing," being a total of 250 marks, less 3 per cent.
discount for cash, or 7 marks, 50 pfennigs, leaving 242 marks,
50 pfennigs, which added made 2585 marks, 05 pfennigs. In
-the entry, the value was stated at 2342 marks, 55 pfennigs.
The invoice of the 21 cases of hosiery was dated at Leipzig
and Chemnitz, in Saxony, July 5, 1883, and was of goods purchased by tbe plaintiffs. It covered 2949 dozen of hose, in 21
items, the prices of which per dozen were given, and amounted
to 13,530 marks, 70 pfennigs. There was a deduction of 3 per
cent. discount for cash, or 405 marks, 95 pfennigs, leaving 13,12- marks, 75 pfennigs. There was then added, under the item

OBERTEUFFER v. ROBERTSON.
Opinion of the Court.
of "packing charges," 420 marks "for cases," 1204 marks, 50'
pfennigs "boxes," and 42 marks "packing," being a total of
1666 marks, 50 pfennigs, less 3 per cent. discount for cash, or
50 marks, leaving 1616 marks, 50 pfennigs, which added made
14,741 marks, 25 pfennigs. In the entry the value was stated.
at 13,124 marks, 75 pfennigs.
The invoice of the one case of hosiery was dated at Hohenstein, Ernsthal, in Saxony, July 4, 1883, and was of goods consigned to the plaintiffs for sale. It covered 178 dozen of hose,
in 6 items, the prices of which per dozen were given, and
amounted to 1629 marks, 20 pfennigs. There was a deduction
of 4 per cent. discount for cash, or 65 marks, 20 pfennigs, leaving 1564 marks. There was then deducted, for "case" 10"
marks: "freight from' Hohenstein to Bremen," 15 marks;
"and to New York," 29 marks; "consul fees," 10 marks, 75
pfennigs; and "insurance," 10 marks, 25 pfennigs; being a
total of 75 marks, less 4 per cent. discount for cash, or 3 marks,
leaving 72 marks, which deducted left 1492 marks; which was
the value stated in the entry.
On the invoice of the 2 cases of gloves the report of the appraiser was that 225 marks (being the 220 marks for "boxes"
and the 5 marks for "packing,") less importer's discount,
should be added "to make market value in marketable condition." This was done, and the duty paid on the added
amount was $20.80.
On the invoice of the 21 cases of hoisery the report of the
appraiser was that 1246 marks, 50 pfennigs, (being the 1204
marks, 50 pfennigs, for "boxes," and the 42 marks for "packing,") less importer's discount, should be added "to make
market value in marketable condition." This was done, and
the duty paid on the added amount was $114.80.
On the invoice of the one case of hosiery, the report of the
appraiser was that 30 pfennigs per dozen should be added "to
make market value in marketable condition." This was done,
and the duty paid on the added amount was $5.20.
The importers filed a protest with the collector in due time,
and daly appealed to the Secretary of the Treasury, and
brought suit in due time. The protest covered the entry in

OCTOBER 'TERM, 1885.
Opinion oi the Court.

this ease and was as follows: "We protest against the liquidation, as made by you, of our entries of merchandise, below referred t6, and against the payment of the duties exacted
thereon, and exacted on the charges of whatever nature thereon,
on the following grounds, and upon each and every one of
them: I "First. That under the act of March 3, 1883, the cost or
market value of said merchandise is alone dutiable, whereas, in
ascertaining the dutiable value thereof, there has been illegally
estimated and included, as a part of such value, charges expressly declared by section 7 of said act to be non-dutiable.
"Sejond. That, under the act of March 3, 1883, only the
value of said cotton hose or other merchandise is dutiable,
whereas the value of the usual and necessary sacks, crates,
boxes, and other coverings have been estimated as part of the
value of said goods, in determining the amount of duties for
wlich they should be liable, contrary to the provisions of section 7, act March 3, 1883.
1"Third. By the act of March 3, 1883, all duties heretofore exacted upon charges incurred in the importation of merchandise
are repealed, but there has been included, in estimating the
dutiable value -of said goods, actual, usual, and necessary
charges for putting up, preparing, and packing -said merchandise, and we hereby separately and distinctly protest against
all duties assessed by reason of such additions to the actual
cost or market value of the actual merchandise imported.
"Fourth. That, under the act of March 3, 1883, said cotton
hose or other merchandise are only dutiable at their first cost
or net market value in principal markets of countries whence
exported, whereas the appraiser, in fixing the dutiable value of
said merchandise, has illegally estimated and included as a
part of such value the charges for finishing and putting up
* said merchandise, or one or more of said charges.
"Fifth. That the dutiable value of said merchandise is its cost
or true market value, at the date of its exportation, in the
principal markets of the country whence it was exported, free
of charges, but you have assessed a duty thereon upon a
valuation in excess of such net cost or value.

OBERTEUFFEA v. ROBERTSON.

503

Opinion of the Court.

"Sixth. *We further protest against the duty assessed hereon,.
claiming that, for reasons heretofore set forth, the net invoice
or entered value is the true legal value upon which the duties
should have been assessed, and that the additions made to such
value are made contrary to the statutes of the United States,
in that non-dutiable charges have been reckoned as a part of
the dutiable value of said goods.
"And we give notice that we pay all higher duties or rates
than is claimed above as the legal duty, under compulsion, and
to obtain and keep quiet possession of our goods; and we also
give hotice that we do not intend by this protest to relinquish
or waive any right we may have to a refund of the difference,.
between the duty exacted of us and any less duty which may
hereafter be adjudged the legal duty upon said goods, intending this protest to be made against the present duty charged
upon said goods, claiming that said duty is not the legal duty
to which said goods are chargeable, holding you and the
Government responsible for all excess of duty exacted by you
upon said goods above the legal duty, and protesting against
all illegal exactions of duty thereon, and hereby give notice
that we intend this protest to apply to all future similar iuportations by us, and also intend the duplicate pr'otest herewith
submitted for transmission by you to the Secretary of the
Treasury, under the rules of your office, to be an appeal to him
from your decision, and to likewise apply to all future similar
importations by us."
The main question involved in the case is as to whether it
was lawful to impose duties on the items for "boxes" and
"packing" in the invoices of the 2 cases and the 21 cases, and
on the item added to the invoice of the one case, which item
was one for like boxes and packing. There was no duty
charged on the outside packing case. The "'boxes" in-question
were paper boxes or cartons, which contained the goods, and
were themselves packed in the outside case, and the item for
"packing "was for packing the goods in the cartons and lining
the outside case and packing the cartons in it. The cartons
contained some of them a dozen, and some a half dozen, pairs,
of the articles. The outside case had a lining of heavy paper

OCTOBER TERM, is5.
Opinion of the Court.

or oilcloth, to protect the goods from sea water.

Some of the

cartons had a partition running through the middle, with half
a dozen pairs of the articles on each side of th3 partition; some
had a dozen pairs in each carton; and some had half a dozen
pairs in each carton. The prices affixed to the gloves and
hosiery bought, in the invoices of them, represent the prices of
the goods, without case or cartons or packing. The plaintiffs
paid not only for the goods, but for the cases, the cartons and
'the packing, paying a price per dozen of the goods, which
covered the cases, the cartons and the packing, which price
was 50 pfennigs higher per dozen of the goods than if there had
been no cartons. In the invoice of the one case, the prices
affixed are the prices for the goods, including, in fact, the items
deducted on the invoice, and also the charge for cartons, which
charge was not deducted on the invoice, although there is nothing on the invoice to show that that charge was part of the
price. The cartons are for the convenience of the trade, in
transporting the goods, and preserving them, and handling
them, and counting them; and the cartons go with the goods
in them, until they become empty through the sale of their contents in the United States, to consumers who buy at retail, for
use. The cartons have labels on, showing the article, and the
style, and the size, and the quantity.
The contention of the plaintiffs is, that by virtue of § I of the
act of March 3, 1883, 22 Stat. 523, referred to in the protest, it
was unlawful to exact duty on the value of the cartons and the
packing; that, in respect to the invoice of the one case, the
addition made was for cartons already included in the entered
value ; and that it was error to direct a verdict for the defendant.
Before examining the provisions of the act of 1883, it will
serve to make a determination of their meaning more easy if
it is distinctly seen what were the enactments in force on the
subject at the time that act was passed.
By § 7 of the act of March 3, 1865, 13 Stat. 493, it was provided as follows: "That in all cases where there is or shall be
imposed any ad valorem rate of duty on any goods, wares or
merchandise imported into the United States, and in all cases

OBERTEUFFER v. ROBERTSON.
Opinion of the Court.

where the duty imposed by law shall be regulated- by, or
directed to be estimated or based upon, the value of the square
yard, or of any specified quantity or parcel of such goods,
wares or merchandise, it shall be the duty of the collector
within whose district the same shall be imported or entered, to
cause the actual market value, or wholesale price thereof, at
the period of the exportation to the United States, in the
principal markets of the country from which the same shall
have been imported into the United States, to be appraised,
and such appraised value shall be considered the value upon
which diuty shall be assessed." The same section then provided for an addition, on entry, by the importer, to the invoice
value, to make such actual market value or wholesale price,
and for a duty of twenty per cent. ad valorem on the appraised
value, in addition to other lawful duties, if the appraised value
should exceed by ten per cent. or more the value so declared
in the entry. It also provided that the duty should "not be
assessed on an amount less than the invoice or entered value;"
and then repealed §§ 23 and 24 of the act of June 30, 1864,
13 Stat. 216, 217, "and all Acts and parts of Acts requiring
duties to be assessed upon commissions, brokerage, costs of
transportation, shipment, transhipment, and other like costs
and charges incurred in placing any goods, wares or merchandise on shipboard, and all Acts or parts of Acts inconsistent
with the provisions of this Act." Section 24 of the act of
1864, thus repealed, was in these words: "That in determining
the valuation of goods imported into the United States from
foreign countries, except as hereinbefore provided, upon which
duties imposed by any existing laws are to be assessed, the actual
value of such goods on shipboard at the last place of shipment
to the United States shall be deemed the dutiable value. And
such value shall be ascertained by adding to the value of such
goods at the place of growth, production or manufacture, the
cost of transportation, shipment, and transhipment, with all
the expenses included, from the place of growth, production, or
manufacture, whether by land or water, to the vessel in which
sfhch shipment is made to the United States, the value of the
sack, box, or covering of any kind, in which such goods are

OCTOBER 'TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

contained, commission at the usual rate, in no case less than
two and one-half per centum, brokerage, and all export duties,
together with all costs and charges,, paid or incurred for
placing said goods on shipboard, and all other proper charges
specified' by law."
The effect of the legislation thus embodied in § 7 of the act
of 1865, as applicable to goods subject to ad valorem duty, was
to fix as their dutiable value, their actual market value or
wholesale price at the period of their exportation to the United
States, in the principal markets of the country from which
they were imported into the United States, instead of their
actual value on shipboard at their last place of shipment to the
United States. The provision in the act of i864-, for adding,
as part of the dutiable value, to the value of the goods themselves, the value of any sack, box, or covering, containing the
goods, was repealed; and, under the act of 1865, the dutiable
value was such actual market value or wholesale price abroad
of the goods themselves, without sack, box, or covering, and
the value of the sack, box, or covering was not to be added, and
was not dutiable.
So much of § 7 of the act of 1865 as related to additions by
the importer, on entry, and to the duty not being assessed on an
amount less than the invoice or entered value, was re-enacted
as § .2900 of the Revised Statutes. So much of the same section as related to the rule for appraisement was re-enacted as
§ 2906, in these words: "When an ad valorem rate of duty
is imposed on any imported merchandise, or when tjhe duty
imposed shall be regulated by, or be directed to be estimated
or'based upon, the value of the square yard, or of any specific
quantity or parcel of such merchandise, the collector within
whose district the same shall be imported or entered shall cause
the actual market value, or wholesale price thereof, at the period
of the exportation to the United States, in the principal markets
of the country from which the same has been imported, to be
appraised, and such appraised value shall be considered the
value upon which duty shall be assessed."
After the act of 1865, followed the act of July 28, 1866; §
9 of which, 14 Stat. 330, provided as follows: "That in deter-,

OBERTEUFFER v. ROBERTSON.
Opinion of the Court.

mining the dutiable value of merchandise hereafter imported,;
there shall be added to the cost, or to the acthal rwholesale price
or general market value at the time of exportation in the principal markets of the country from whence the same shall have
been imported into the United States, the cost of transportation,
shipment, and transhipment, with all the expenses included,
from the place of production, growth, or manufacture, whether
by land or water, to the vessel in which shipment is made to
the United States; the value of the sack, box, or covering of
any kind in which such goods are contained; commission at the
usual rates, but in no case less than two and a half per centum;.
brokerage, export duty, and all other actual or usual charges
for putting up, preparing, and packing for transportation or
shipment. And all charges of a general character incurred in
the purchase of a general invoice shall be distributed pro rata
among all parts of such invoice; and every part thereof charged
with duties based on value shall be advanced according to its
proportion, and all wines or other articles paying specific duty
by grades shall be graded and pay duty according to the actual value so determined: Provided, That all additions made
to the entered value of merchandise for charges shall be regarded as part of the actual value of such merchandise, and if
such addition shall exceed by ten per centum the value so declared in the entry, in addition to the duties imposed by law,
there shall be levied, collected, and. paid a duty of twenty per
centum on such value."
These provisions of § 9 of the act of 1866 were re-enacted
as §§ 2907 and 2908 of the Revised Statutes in these words :
"Sec. 2907. In determining the dutiable value of merchandise,
there shall be added to the cost, or to the actual wholesale price
or general market value at the time of exportation in the principal markets of the country from whence the same has been
imported into the United States, the cost of transportation,
shipment, and transhipment, with all the expenses included,
from the place of growth, production, or manufacture, whether
by land or water, to the vessel in which shipment is made to
the United States; the value oc the sack, box, or covering of
any kind in which such merchandise is contained; commission

OCTOBER TERM, 1858.
Opinion of the Court.,

at the usual rates, out in no case less than two and a half per
centum; and brokerage, export duty, and all other actual or
usual charges for putting up, preparing, and packing for transportation or shipment. All charges of a general character incurred in the purchase of a general invoice shall be distributed
pro rata among all parts of such invoice; and every part thereof
charged with duties based on value shall be advanced according
to its proportion, and all wines or other articles paying specific
duties by grades shall be graded and pay duty according to
the actual value so determined. § 2908. All additions made
to the entered value of merchandise for charges shall be regarded as part of the actual value of such merchandise, and if
such addition shall exceed by ten per centum the value declared
in the entry, in addition to the duties imposed by law, there
shall be collected a duty of twenty per centum on such value."
Then followed § 14 of the act of June 22, 1874, 18 Stat. 188,
which provided as follows: "That wherever any statute requires that, to the cost or market value of any goods, wares, and
merchandise imported into the United States, there shall be
added to the invoice thereof, or, upon the entry of such goods,
wares, and merchandise, charges for inland transportation, commissions, port duties, expenses of shipping, export duties, cost of
packages, boxes, or other articles containing such goods, wares,
and merchandise, or any other incidental expenses attending the
packing, shipping, or exportation thereof from the country or
place where purchased or manufactured, the omission, without
intent thereby to defraud the revenue, to add and state the
same on such invoice or entry shall not be a cause of a forfeiture of such goods, wares, and merchandise, or of the value
thereof; but in all cases where the same, or any part thereof,
are omitted, it shall be the duty of the collector or appraiser to
add the same, for the purposes of duty, to such invoice or entry,
either in items or in gross, at such price or amount as he shall
deem just and reasonable, (which price or amount shall, in the
absence of protest, be conclusive,) and to impose and add thereto
the further sum of one hundred per centum of the price or
mnount so added; which addition shall constitute a part of the
dutiable value of such goods, wares, and merchandise, and shall

OBERTEUFFER v. ROBERiTSOT.
Opinion of the Court.

be collectible as provided by law in respect to duties on imports." Section 26 of the same act repealed all prior inconsistent provisions.
Such were the enactments in force when the act of 1883 was
passed. When the duty was ad valorem, or based on the value
of a given quantity or parcel of goods, there was, by § 2906 of
the Revised Statutes, to be an appraisement here of the actual
market value or wholesale price of the goods, at the period of
exportation, in the principal markets of the country from which
they were imported, and such appraised value was to be the
dutiable value of the goods, as merchandise, without reference
to any of the items required by § 2907 to be added as charges
to such actual market value or wholesale price of the goods.
All those items so required to be added were charges, and not
part of the appraised value of the goods. - By §2908, if the'
items added for charges, after entry, exceeded by ten per cent.
the entered value of the goods, a duty of twenty per cent., in
addition to the duties imposed by law, was required to be collected "on such value." This additional duty did not depend
on an intent to defraud, but was imposed for the mere omission of the charges from the entry. By § 14 of the act of 1874,
the omission to add the charges, without intent to defraud, was
declared not to be a cause of forfeiture, but when they were
omitted, it was made the duty of the public officers to add them
for the purposes of duty, and to add the further sum of one hundred per cent. of the amount so added, such additions to be a
part of the dutiable value.
Then followed the 7th section of the act of 1883, in these
words: "That sections twenty-nine hundred and seven and
twenty-nine hundred and eight of the Revised Statutes of the
United States, and section fourteen of the Act entitled 'An
Act to amend the customs revenue laws, and to repeal moieties,'
approved June twenty-second, eighteen hundred and seventyfour, be, and the same are hereby, repealed, and hereafter none
of the charges imposed by said sections, or any other provisions
of existing law, shall be estimated in ascertaining the value of
goods to'be imported, nor shall the value of the usual and necessary sacks, crates, boxes, or covering, of any kind, be esti-

510

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion ,of the Court.

mated as part of their value in determining the amount of
duties for which they are liable: Provided,That if any packages, sacks, crates, boxes, or coverings, of any kind, shall be
of any material or form designed to evade duties thereon, or
desigfhed for use otherwise than in the bona fide transportation
of goods to the United States, the same shall be subject to a
duty of one hundred per centum ad valorem upon the actual
value of the same."
By this § 7 of the act of 1883, in the first place, §§ 2907 and
2908 of the Revised Statues, and § 14 of the act of 1874, are
repealed. This repeals the provision of §'2907, that, in determining the dutiable value of the merchandise, there shall be
added to its appraised market value (to be ascertained under §
2906, which is left unrepealed,) the expenses and charges mentioned in § 2907, among which are "the value of the sack, box,
or covering, of any kind, in which such merchandise is contained," "and all other actual or usual charges for putting up,
preparing, and packing for transportation or shipment." It
also repeals the provision of § 2908 for the additional duty, of
twenty per cent. when the addition for the charges mentioned
in § 2907 exceeds by ten per cent. the entered value. It also
-repeals the provision of § 14 of the act of 1874, for the addition of double the charges omitted, among which charges are
specified "cost of packages, boxes, or other articles containing
such goods, wares, and merchandise, and any other incidental
expenses attending the packing, shipping, or exportation thereof
from the country or place where purchased or manufactured."
The items thus specified in § 2907 of the Revised Statutes,
and in § 14 of the act of 1874, being charges, and being eliminated as part of the dutiable value of goods, and § 2906 remaining for the appraisement of the goods per se, without the addition of any bf the charges so abolished, it would seem that the
meaning of § 7 of the act of 1883 was plain.
But that section goes on to say: "and hereafter none of the
charges imposed by said sections or any other provisions of existing law shall be estimated in ascertaining the value of goods
to be imported." INothing is imposed by § 2907 of the- Revised
Statutes but the addition to the appraised market value, pro-

OBERTEUFFER v. ROBERTSON.
Opinion of the Court.

vided for by § 2906, of the items specified in § 2907, all of
which are thus declared by § 7 of the act of 1SS3 to have been
"charges." Those charges are no longer to be added or estimated, as before, in determining the dutiable value of the
goods. So, the repealed § 14 of the act of 1867 imposed nothing except in respect of the items it specified, which were items
to be added to appraised market value, and are, therefore, declared by § 7 of the act of 1883 to have been "charges."
But that section goes on still further to say: "nor shall the
value of the usual and necessary sacks, crates, boxes, or covering, of any kind, be estimated as part of their value in determining the amount of duties for which they are liable." This.
means, that not only, as the section had declared, shall none of
the charges provided for in the repealed sections be added or
estimated in ascertaining dutiable value, but the value of the
sacks, crates, boxes, or covering, of any kind, shall not be estimated as part of the value, or included in the value, of the
goods, but shall be omitted, leaving the value of the goods to
be appraised per se, under § 2906, without estimating or in-'
eluding the value of the sack, crate, box, or covering, of any
kind, and, therefore, requiring such latter value to be deducted'
if the entry or invoice includes it, either separately, or as part
of a price or value affixed to the goods, if it is capable of separation and deduction, unless the effect is to reduce the dutiable
value below the invoice or entered value. For, by § 2907 of
the Revised Statutes, "the value of the sack, box, or covering,
of any kind, in which such merchandise is contained," was required to be added, that is, estimated in dete-mining the dutiable value of merchandise;" and the items required by § 14 of
the act of 1874 to be added to the market value of goods, for
the purposes of duty, cover the "cost of packages, boxes or
other articles containing" the goods, and the expenses of packing.
The last clause of §7 of the act of 1883 adds force to the'
foregoing views. It is this: " .P ro&vided, That if any packages,
sacks, crates, boxes, or coverings, of any kind, shall be of any
material or form designed to evade duties thereon, or designed
for use otherwise than in the bona fide transportation of, goods

612

OOTOBER TERI,

1885.

Opinion of the -Court.

to the United States, the same shall be subject to a duty of one
hundred' per centum ad valorem upon the actual value of the
same." This implies that if the boxes or coverings of any
kind are not of a material or form designed to evade duties
thereon, and are designed to be used in the bona fide transpor,tation of the goods to the United States, they are not subject to
duty. If either of these things occurs they are subject to one
hundred per cent. duty. There is not, in the present case, any
suggestion that the cartons were of a form or material designed
to evade duties thereon. They were of the usual kind kno~'n
to the trade before the law was passed, as customarily used for
the -same purpose. They were designed to be used in the bona
fide transportation of the goods to the United States, not only
because they were and had been a customarr article in the trade
for covering and transporting these goods, but because they
were intended to accompany the goods and remain with them
in the hands of the retail dealer, until the goods should be sold
'to the consumer.
The change made by § 8 of the act of 1883 in the oaths required on entry, is in consonance with the above interpretation
of the effect of § 7. Section 8 amends § 2841 of the Revised
Statutes, aq to the forms of the three several oaths, in the following manner, the particular parts referred to of the old
forms and the new ones being placed side by side, and the
parts in each which differ from the other being in italic:
Oat of consignee, imyort r, or agent.

Old oath.
"that the invoice now produced
by me exhibits the actual cost,
(if. purchased,) or fair market
value, (if otherwise obtained,)
at the time or times, and place
or places, when or where procured, (as the case may be,) of
the said goods, wares, and merchandise, alltk cwrye8 thereon,

-Yew oao
"that the invoice now produced
by me exhibits the actual cost,
(if purchased,) or lair market
value, (if otherwise obtained,)
at the time or times, and place
or places, when or where procured, (as the case may be,) of
the said goods, wares, and merchandise, including aM os5 for

OBERTEUFFER v. ROBERTSON.
Opinion of the Court.

and no other or different dis- fiishing said goods, wares and
merchuandise to theirpresentconcount," &c.
dition,and no other'or different
discount," &c.
OatA of owner in cases where merchandise has been actually
.purchased.
Old oath.
Nrew oath,
"that the invoice which I now "that the invoice which I now
produce contains a just and produce contains a just and
faithful account of the actual faithful account of the actual
cost of the said goods, wares, cost of the said goods, wares,
and merchandise, of all charges and merchandise, including all
thereon, including charges of cost of finishing said goods,
purchaid'g, earriages, bleach- wares, and merchandiseto their
ing, dyeing, dressing,finishing, present condition, and no other
.utting up, and packing,-and discount," &c.
no other discount," &c.
Oath of manufactureror owner in cases where merchancise has
tot 3een actual? purchased.

-New oath.
Old oath.
which I now pro"the
invoice
now
prowhich
I
"the invoice
a just and faithcontains
duce
duce contains a just and faithof the same, at
ful
valuation
at
same,
ful valuation of the
value, at the
fair
market
their
their fair market value, includtime,"
&c.
ing charges of purchasing,carriages, bleaching,dyeing, dressing,ji8hing,putting up, and
packing, at the time," &c.
"that the said invoice contains "that the said invoice contains
also a just and faithful account also a just and faithful account
of all charges actually paid, of all the costforfinishing saicd
goods, wares, and merchandise
and no other discount," &c.
to their present condition, and
no other discount," &c.
It is apparent that these new forms of oath leave out
VOL. cxvi-38

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Coiurt.

"charges" entirely, because the statute leaves them out as
dutiable items. The "cost of finishing the goods to their present condition" is part of the value of the goods abroad outside
of the abolished "charges." Goods may be bought abroad
unfinished, and then caused to be finished; but in no case can
the cost of finishing be left out of their value, however they
-have been obtained. So, the new oaths embrace only the value
of the goods peree, and there is no oath as to any item before
called "charges." The item of "finishing" is broad enough
to include bleaching, dyeing, and.dressing, bht does not include
any of the other charges specifically named in the old oaths.
The contention on the part of the government is that § 7 of
the act of 1883 repeals only so much of the prior statutes as
added to the market value abroad the charges which were
incident to the shipment of the goods, after they were put in a
condition for the market abroad, as usually sold; that the expense of the cartons was necessary to put them into that condition; that the value of the cartons was part of the market
value of the goods abroad; and that, therefore, it must enter
into the dutiable value. It is urged that the carton is not inci'dent. to the transportation of the goods, but is part of their
preparation for sale abroad; that it is an integral part of the
value of the whole, carton and goods, as a unit; that, in valuing such unit, nothing more is done than valuing the goods,
ready for sale; and that, although, in one sense, the carton is
a charge, it is a charge incurred in putting the merchandise
into the condition in which it is sold abroad, and it becomes
part of the goods, and its value is merged in the value'of the
filled carton. The sufficient answer to these suggestions is,
that they allow no weight to the declaration of the statute
'that the value of the usual and necessary box or covering, of
any kind, shall not be estimated as part of the value of the
goods, in determining the amount of duties for which the goods
are liable. The carton is a usual box or covering. It is a
necessary box or covering, within the meaning of the law, on
the facts shown in the bill of exceptions. It was a box or covering in which the goods were contained, and so was a charge
specifically imposed by § 2907 of the Revised Statutes; and

OBERTEUFFER v. ROBERTSON.
Opinion of the Court.

7 of the act of 1883 says that no charge imposed by § 2907
shall be estimated in ascertaining the value of the goods.
The bill of exceptions shows, that, after the enactment of
§ 14 of the act of 1874, and prior to March 3, 1883, it was the
practice of the custom-house at New York, where there were
cartons with the goods, and the cartons were not set forth in
the invoice, to treat the value of the cartons as a charge, under
that section, and add such value, and one hundred per cent.
thereon, to make dutiable value. No statute is referred to
which ever recognized the value of cartons as other than a
charge, and no such practice appears to have obtained before
MNarch 3, 1883.
As the action of the collector in this case appears to have
been founded on a circular issued by the Treasury Department
on May 15, 1883, and was sanctioned by the opinion of the
Attorney-General, Mr. Brewster, given to the Secretary of the
Treasury on January 11, 1884, and as there have been decisions
of Circuit Courts in accordance with those views (although
there have been some to the contrary), the question involved
has ben carefully considered by this court, and the judges are
unanimously of opinion that the true view of the statute in
force at the time the goods in this case were entered is that
announced in this opinion.
It appears that, after verdict and before judgment, there was
a motion made for a new trial in this case, in deciding which,
Oberteufer v. Robertson, 24 Fed. Rep. 852, the court stated
that the verdict for the defendant was directed on the ground
that the plaintiff's protest "was insufficient to present the objections relied upon by them to the exaction of the duties
in controversy," but that the motion for a new trial was
denied on the ground that the duties were not illegally exacted.
It it contended for the government, that a reappraisement
should have been applied for by the plaintiffs, under § 2930 of
the Revised Statutes, and that they mistook their remedy.We are of opinion that this is not a sound view. They were
not dissatisfied with the appraisement of the value of the
goods per se. That value was left at the value stated in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

invoice. The addition of the items for cartons and packing
was no part of the duty or function of the appraiser, acting
under § 2906, to appraise the foreign market value of the
goods. Although, in form, the appraiser added the items for
cartons and packing, the action of the custom-house was only
a decision of the collector, under § 2931, that the cartons and
packing were dutiable costs and charges. Those items appeared
distinctly, as to two of the invoices, on them and on the entry,
as charges for boxes and packing, and, being deducted as such
on the face of the entry, were again added as such by the appraiser. As to the third invoice, the value of the cartons and
packing, being included in the invoice value, was left in in the
entered value, and a sam was added which in fact represented
a second time the value of the cartons and packing, as a dutiable charge. We are of opinion that the first, second, and
third paragraphs of the protest in this case are sufficient to
raise the points relied on by the plaintiffs, and that to protest
was the proper way to raise those points.
The exaction of duty on the packing, whether packing the
goods in the cartons, or the cartons in the outer case, or lining
the outer case, was not warranted by law. These were
"charges" under the former statutes and were abolished as
charges by the act of 1883.
-As to the one case of hosiery, the addition to the entered
value, of thirty pfennigs per dozen for the cartons and packing,
was unauthorized, and the goods were dutiable at only the
entered value of 1492 marks. As, under § 2900 of the Revised
Statute's, duty, cannot, as to the goods, "be assessed upon an
-amount less than the invoice or entered value," whatever is
put down in the invoice and entry as the value of the goods
_.Pr,e cannot be diminished, although in fact there may have
been included in such value the cost 'of cartons and packing,
unless the invoice or entry shows distinctly what such cost was
and that it was included. In fact the cartons and packing
were included twice, as to the one case of hosiery, in exacting
duties, but only that which the appraiser added for them can
. be deducted, although-their cost would not properly have been
part of the dutiable value if the invoice and entry had not

COE v. ERROL.
Statement of Facts.

stated the value of the goods at a price which in fact included
the cost of the cartons and packing.
It results, from these views, that
Tle judgment of tde Circuit Court must be reversed, and the
case be reranded to that court, with a direction to grant a
new trial.

COE v. ERROL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW HA.PSHnIt.
Submitted October 13, 1885.-Decided January 25, 1888.

Goods and chattels within a State are equally taxable whether owned by a
citizen of the State, or a citizen of another State, even though the latter be
taxed in his own State for the value of the same goods as part of his general
personal estate.
Goods, ,ne product of a State, intended for exportation to another State, are
liable to taxation as part of the general mass of property of the State of
their origin, until actually started in course of transportation to the State
of their destination, or delivered to a common carrier for that purpose ; t]ie
carrying of them to, and depositing them at, a depot for the purpose of
transportation is no part of that transportation.
When goods, the product of a State, have begun to be transported from that
State to another State, and not till then, they have become the subjects of
inter-state commerce, and, as such, are subject to national regulation, and
cease to be taxable by the State of their origin.
Goods on their way through a State from a place outside thereof to another
place outside thereof, are in course of inter-state or foreign transportation,
and are subjects of inter-state or foreign commerce, and not taxable by the
State through which they are passing, even though detained within that
State by low water or other temporary cause.
Logs cut at a place in New Hampshire were hauled down to the town of Errol,
on the Androscoggin River, in that State, to be transported from thence
upon the river to Lewiston, Maine; and waited at Errol for a convenient
opportunity for such transportation: Held, That they were still part of the
general mass of property of the State, liable to taxation, if taxed in the
usual way in which such property is taxed in the State.

In September, 1881, Edward S. Coe filed a petition in the
Supreme Court of New Hampshire for the county of Co6s,
against the Town of Errol, for an abatement of taxes, and

