OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Syllabus.

Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District of
Louisiana, on the ground that they were citizens of Tennessee
and the plaintiffs citizens of Alabama, and that the suit involved a controversy wholly between citizens of different
States. When the case was entered in the Circuit Court it
was remanded. To reverse that order this writ of error was
brought.
It is conceded that the suit was not removable when the
petition for removal was filed, unless the service of process on
Fletcher on the 4th of June so changed the character of the litigation as to make it substantially a new suit, begun on that day.
In our opinion such was not the effect of the new process. The
suit was begun when process was served on Wesenberg and the
firm. If judgment had been rendered against the defendants
at any time after that it could have been enforced against
Wesenberg personally and against all the property of the firm
and of the individual partners in Louisiana. The cause of action is joint. There is no separable controversy in the case.
There can be no removal by the defendants unless they all join
and all are citizens of different States from the plaintiffs. Confessedly Wesenberg lost his right to a removal by failing to
make the application in time, and as Fletcher cannot take the
case from the State court unless Wesenberg joins with him, it
follows that he is subjected to Wesenberg's disability.
The order to remand is
Affirmed.
EUREKA LAKE & YUBA CANAL COMPANY v.
SUPERIOR COURT OF YUBA COUNTY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.
Submitted December 21, 1885.-Decided January 18, 1886.

When the court may reasonably infer from the record in a case brought here
by writ of error from a State court that the Federal question raised here
was necessarily involved in the decision there, the court will not dismiss

the writ on motion to dismiss for want of jurisdiction, although it may not
appear affirmatively on the record that the question was raised there.

EUREKA LAKE COMPANY v. YUBA COUNTY.

411

Statement of Facts.
When a court, having acquired jurisdiction of a cause and the parties to it,
issues an order upon one of the parties to show cause why he should not be
punished for contempt in disobeying a temporary restraining order of injunction made in the cause, and he conceals himself to evade service of the
process, the court may, on proper return of the facts, direct service of the
order to show cause to be made on his attorney of record, and after due service thereof, may proceed to hear the order to show cause, and to adjudge
the same.

This was a motion to dismiss the writ of error for want of
jurisdiction, with which -was united a motion to affirm.
The record in the case showed that the Eureka Lake and
Yuba Canal Company, (Consolidated,) was a New York corporation doing business in California, and that in or about
the month of March, 1880, the company filed in the office
of the Secretary of State of California an instrument designating and appointing "David Cahn, of 205 Sansome
.
as the person
Street, in the city of San Francisco, .
upon whom process issued by authority of or under any
law of the State of California may be served, and all process
served upon said David Cahn will be valid, and binding
upon said corporation." This was done in compliance with
an act of the legislature of California, entitled "An Act in
relation to foreign corporations," approved April 1, 1872.
On the 3d of October, 1882, the county of Yuba brought
suit against the corporation in the Superior Court of that
county to enjoin the corporation from depositing or suffering to flow into the channel or bed of the Yuba River,
or any of its tributaries, "the tailings from its hydraulic
mines, or the earth, sand, clay, sediment, stones, or other
material discharged from its said mines," and from selling to
others any water to be used*in hydraulic mining. Immediately upon the bringing of the suit an ex }a~te restraining
order was entered by the court in. accordance with the prayer
Process in the suit and a copy of the
of the complaint.
restraining order were served on Cahn November 9, 1882. On
the 5th of December a motion was made to set aside this
service. This motion was denied December 23d, and on
the 17th of January the corporation, by James K. Byrne and

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

W. 0.Belcher, its attorneys, filed a demurrer to the complaint.
On the 20th of Jandary an order was entered requiring the
corporation to show cause, February 2d, why it should not be
punished for a contempt of court in disobeying the injunction. Service of this order was directed to be made on
Bigelow, the managing agent of the company, or on Cahn,
the designated agent for the service of process. This service
was not made on account of the absence of Cahn in
the city of New York, where the company had its principal
place of business. Thereupon, the time for showing" cause
was changed to March 24th, and service of an order to
this effect was made' on Cahn March 5th. After this service,
the corporation appeared by its attorneys and moved to set
aside the order to show cause, -on the ground, among
others, that Cahn was not on the 5th of March, "and had not
been for more than one month prior thereto," the person
designated by the corporation as its agent for the service of process. Upon the hearing of this motion, it appeared
that the appointment of Cahn as process agent had been
revoked and Bigelow put in his place. Such being the case, a
further order was entered requiring like cause to be shown
April 23d, and efforts were made to serve this order on
Bigelow, who was the only person in the State on whom
process against the corporation could be served. Bigelow resided at the mines, and the record shows clearly that he
purposely kept himself out of the way of the officer to
avoid service. *No service was, therefore, made on him,
and upon the return of the facts, supported by affidavits, May
14th was fixed by the court as the time for the hearing, and an
order was entered that service be made upon "the attorneys of record herein of said defendant." This service was
effected. At the return day the attorneys of the defendant,
appearing specially for that purpose, moved to set aside the
order to show cause, 1, because the restraining order was voiO,
the court having "no jurisdiction of the person of the defendant at the time the said order was made and issued;" 2, because the "judge who made the same was, at the time the same
was made, disqualified by law to make the said order;" 3, be-

EUREKA CANAL COMPANY v. YUBA COUNTY. 413
Argument against the Motions.

cause the order "was granted without due notice, or any notice
whatever, to the proper officer, or any officer or officers, or to the
managing agent, or any agent of said corporation, of the application therefor;" 4, because the restraining order was "never
served on the defendant;" and, 5, because .the order to show
cause was "never served upon the defendant." This motion
was overruled, and thereupon, the corporation not appearing,
. in relation
"by attorney, or otherwise, to show cause .
to said contempt," but making default "in said matter of contempt," a hearing was had "upon said order to show cause,
and said affidavits and the records and papers in said court and
action," and the corporation was adjudged to be guilty of contempt, and to "pay a fine to the people of the State of California in the sum of two hundred and fifty dollars as a punishment for such contempt, and that execution issue in the name
of the people of the State of California against said defendant
therefor."
On the 26th of July, 1883, the corporation filed in the
Supreme Court of the State a petition for review, on the ground
that "in entering said order of injunction, and in assuming
thereafter to adjudge the petitioner guilty of contempt for its
alleged violation of said order, the said Superior Court of said
County of Yuba, and the said judge thereof, exceeded the jurisdiction thereof." Upon this petition the orders of the Superior
Court were airmed, and to reverse that judgment this writ of
error was brought.
.3k. A. Z. Phodes for the motions.
.Xr. W-. Wf. Cope opposing.-In affirming the judgments
the Supreme Court of California necessarily decided that service upon the attorney of the corporation of the order to show
caube why it should not be punished for contempt, gave the
court jurisdiction, and warranted judgments, the execution of
which would result in the loss of its property. Such service
was not "due process of law" within the meaning of the Constitution of the United States, and the judgment violates the
prohibition of section 1 of the Fourteenth Amendment. The

OCTOBER TERM; 1885.
Argument against the Notions.

Supreme Court in giving judgment referred to its decision in
Golden Gate Mining Co. v. Superior Co't of Yuba Cou'nty,
65 Cal. 187, 102, where it said: "The defendant in the action
had entrusted its attorneys with the protection of its interests
and the defence of its rights. We can see no abuse of authority
on the part of the court in directing that the order to show
cause should be served on an attorney, since it was made to
appear that the defendant, by reason of its own acts, could not
be served personally. The process .was suitable, and the mode
adopted by the court conformable to the spirit of the code."
This doctrine we respectfully contend is in violation of the
Constitution of the United States. It confounds the distinction
between criminal and civil contempts, and the different methods
of obtaining jurisdiction of the persons of the perpetrators of
such offences. It assumes that because an attorney is employed
to protect the civil rights of a party, he represents him in criminal proceedings growing out of the conduct of those civil
rights. This court held in Yew Orleans v. Steampip Co.,
20 Wall. 387, 392, that "contempt of court is a specific criminal offence ;" that the imposition of a fine for it is a judgment
in a criminal case; and that "that part of the decree is as distinct from the residue as if it were a judgment upon an indictment for perjury committed in a deposition read at the hearing." The same doctrine is held in Virginia, Baltinmore &
Ohio Railroad Co. v. Wheeling, 13 Grattan, 40, 57; and in
New York, Pitt v. Davison, 37 Barb. 97, 109, 110. It is true
this case was reversed by the C'urt of Appeals, but not upon
this point, as the syllabus shows. And this is the construction
put upon the case in Wells on Jurisdiction of Courts, ยง 193; and
in Rapalje on Contempts, ยง 21, where it is said: "Civil contempts are those quasi contempts which consist in failing to do
something which.the contemnor is ordered by the court to do
for the benefit or advantage-of another party to the proceeding
before the court; while criminal contempts are all those acts in
disrespect of the court, or of its process, or which obstruct the
administration of justice, or tend to bring the court into disrepute; such as disorderly conduct, insulting behavior in the
presence or immediate vicinity of the court, or acts of violence

EUREKA LAKE COMPANY v. YUBA COUNTY.

415

Opinion of the Court.
which interrupt its proceeding; also, disobedience to or resistafice of the process of the court; interference with property in
the custody of the law; misconduct of officers; etc." Ee p2arte
Edwards,'i1 Florida, 174, 184; ]Jlatter of W-ratseo, 3 Lansing,
408 ; People v. Cowles, 4 Keyes, 38, 46 ; Tawley v. Bennett, 4
Paige, 163; People v. SPalding, 10 Paige, 284. See also PiRlip8 v. -elecl, 11 .Nevada, 187.
Speaking of the principle for which we are here contending, the Supreme Court of New York, in Stuart v. P1almer,
74 N. Y. 183, 190, says: "It is a rule founded on the first principles of natural justice, older than written constitutions, that
a citizen shall not be deprived of his life, liberty, or property
without an opportunity to be heard in defence of his rights, and
the constitutional provision that no person shall be deprived of
these ' without due process of law ' has its foundation in this
rule. This provision is the most important guaranty of personal rights to be found in the Federal or Stat', Constitut ion.
It is a limitation upon arbitrary power, and 'it is a guaranty
against arbitrary legislation. No citizen shall arbitrarily be
deprived of his life, liberty, or property. This the Legislature
cannot do nor authorize to be done. Due process of law is not
confined to judicial proceedings, but extends to every case
which may deprive a citizen of life, liberty, or property, whether
the proceeding be judicial, administrative, or executive in its
nature. Weimer v. Bunbury, 30 Mich. 201. This great guaranty is always and everywhere present to protect the citizen
against arbitrary interference with these sacred rights.
We think the court will hardly consider the question a
frivolous one; and there being no color of right to a dismissal,
the motion to affirm must be denied under the rule laid down
in lWltney v. Cook, 99 U. S.607.
M .COT=F-JusTIoE WiArE delivered the opinion of the court.
After stating the facts in the language reported above, he continued:
It doss not appear affirmatively on the face of the record
that the orders of the Superior Court were objected to in the
Supreme Court on the ground that, in the absence of personal

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of,the Court.

service of the order to show cause on some officer, or authorized
agent of the corporation, the judgment in the contempt p~roceeding was without due process of law, and therefore contrary to the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution'of the
United States; yet that point is made here, and it is possible
its decision was necessarily involved in the final order that was
made. For this reason the motion tb dismiss is.overruled; but
there was sufficient color of right to a dismissal to warrant
uniting a motion to affirm with the motion to dismiss, and on
consideration of that motion we are entirely clear the case
ought not to be retained for further argument. Section 187 of
the Code of Civil Procedure in California is as foliows:
"When jurisdiction is, by this code, or by any other statute,
conferred on a court or judicial officer, all the means necessary
to carry it into effect are also given; and in the exercise of the
jurisdiction, if the course of proceeding be not specifically
pointed out by this code, or the statute, any suitable process
or mode of proceeding may be adopted which may appear
most conformable to the spirit of this code."
Under this statute the courts of California hold that "when
a party charged with contempt, in disobeying a legal order wilfully conceals himself to avoid service of an order to show cause
why he should not be adjudged guilty of contempt, the court
is not powerless to proceed, or to prevent the continued disregard of its lawful -order," but may order, as justice shall require,
after due- service of an order-to show cause, on the attorneys
of the party proceeded against. In Golden Gae .Xining Co.
v. Superior Ct., 65 Cal. 187, 192, the Supreme Court said:
" The defendant-in the action [a corporation] had entrusted its
attorneys with the protection of its interests and the defence
of its rights. We can see no abuse of authority on the part of
the court in directing that the 6rder to shciv cause should be
served on an attorney, since it was made to appear that the
defendant by reason of his own acts could not be served
personally. The process was 'suitable,' and the mode adopted
by the court 'conformable to the spirit of the code.'" The
good sense of this rule is mnifest. A corporation can only
be served with process through some officer or agent. It is

EUREKA LAKE COMPANY v. YUBA COUNTY.

41T

Opitiion of the Court.
certainly competent for a state to determine who this officer
or agent shall be, or how he shall be designated by the corporation. In California a foreign corporation is' required to make
such a designation, and to give public notice thereof by filing
the instrument of designation in the office of the secretary of
State. After this suit was begun that agency was changed by
this corporation, and the person designated, instead of being
located at San Francisco, where he could be easily found, was
at the mines. This change was made after the service of the
injunction on the former agent, and after the court had determined that the service upon him was sufficient to bring the
corporation into court. It was also made after the corporation had been guilty, as was alleged, of a violation of the injunction and after an attempt had been made to serve an order
to show cause on Cahn, the old agent. The new agent was
to be found only at a place difficult of access, and even there
he kept himself concealed from the officer who had been
charged with the duty of making the service. As he was the
only person in the State on whom process could be served, his
concealment to avoid service was in law the concealment of
the corporation itself, and the court was left free to act accordingly.
By section 1209 of the Code of Civil Procedure of California
"disobedience of any lawful judgment, order, or process of the
court" is declared to be a contempt of the authority of the court.
C iks, 22 Wall. 157, 168, the
As was said by this court I n
exercise of the power to punish for contempt "has a two-fold
aspect, namely: first, the proper punishment of the guilty
party for his disrespect to the court or its order, and the second,
to compel his performance of some act or duty required of him.
by the court, which he refuses to perform." This being the'
case, to deny the court the power of calling on a cohcealed
corporation through its chosen attorney of record in a suit to
appear and answer to a charge of contempt for disobeying the
orders of the court duly entered in that suit, would be to deny
it the power of vindicating its authority and enforcing obedience to its lawful commands against a party personally subjected to its jurisdiction. Although the proceeding may be
voL cxvi-27

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Syllabus.

criminal in its nature, it grows out of the suit to which the
person proceeded against is a party and actually represented
by an attorney. Ordinarily a corporation has in such a case a
right to service of an order to show cause upon some officer or
agent, but if its officers or agents keep themselves out of the
way for the express purpose of avoiding su6h a service, it cannot justly complain if service on its attorney is made the equivalent of that which its agents by their wrongful acts have made
impossible. The same principle applies here that governed this
court in Reynolds v. United States, 98 IT. S. 145, 158, where it
was held that, although the Constitution gives an accused person the right to a trial at which he shall be confronted with"
the witnesses against him, yet, if a witness was absent by his.
own wrongful procurement he could not complain if competent evidence was admitted to supply the place of that which
he kept away. It was said the Constitution "grants him the
privilege of being confronted with the witnesses against him,
but if he voluntarily keeps the witnesses away he cannot insist
on his privilege." So here the corporation was perhaps entitled to- service on its officers or agents, but as this was
prevented by their wrongful acts, the privilege cannot be insisted upon.
denied, but that to affirm is granted.
The motion to-dismims i8s

OREILLY & Another v. CAMPBELL & Others.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF UTAH.
Argued December 4, 188.-Decided January 11, 188.

An appellate Territorial court, having before it findings of the court below
and new matter submitted by stipulation, makes no findings aaM sends up
the case without the new matter. Held, That it must be determined here
on those findings. Stringfellow v. Cain, 99 U. S. 610, approved.
An objection to want of proof of a fact which, if taken at the trial, can be met
at once, must be taken there, or it will be considered as waived, except as
to matters going to the jurisdiction of the court.

