OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

"NORTHERN PACIFIO RAILROAD COMPANY v..
HERBERT.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF DAKOTA.
Argued December 4, 8, 9, 1885.-1)ecded February 1, 1886.

When the allowance of a challenge to a juror for cause is assigned as error, it
should appear that it was not peremptory if peremptory challenges are
allowed.
An allowance of a challenge to a juror for cause and the selection of another
competent and unbiased juror in his place, works no prejudice to the other
party.
It is not error that the court below, after motion to set aside a verdict as excessive, ordered that the motion should be granted unless the plaintiff should
at once remit the amount deemed by the court to b6 in excess, but id that
case the motion should be denied and judgment entered for the remainder.
AnQ mployer is not liabla for injuries to his servant caused by the negligence
of a fellow-servant in a common employment; but this exemption does not
extend to injuries caused by the carelessness or neglect of another person in
the master's service in an employment not common to that in which the person injured is engaged, and upon a subject in regard to which the person
'injured has a right to look for care and diligence on the part of the other
person as the representative of the common master.
If no one is appointed by a railway company to look after the condition of its
cars, and see that the machinery and appliances used to move and to 9top
them are kept in repair and in good working order, it is liable for the injuries caused thereby. If one is appointed by it charged with that duty,
and the injuries result from hisnegligence in its performance, the company
is liable. He is, so far as that duty is concerned, the representative of the
company.
A statute which enacts that "an employer is not bound to indemny his employ6 for losses suffered by the latter in consequence of the ordinary risks of
'the business in which he is employed, nor in consequence of the negligence
of another person employed in the same general business" does not apply to
losses suffered by an employ6 in consequence of the negligence of another
person, employed by the same employer in another and not in the same general business.
A statute which provides that "there is no common law.in any case where the
law is declared by the codes" does not take from the court the duty of
referring to the common law in order to determine 'the meaning of a term
used in the codes, when they fail to define it.

The Northern Pacific Railroad Company is a corporation
created under the laws of Congress to construct a railroad and

NORTHERN" PACIFIC R.R. CO. v. HERBERT.

643

Statemen, of Facts.

a telegraph line from Lake Superior to Puget Sound. 'In 1879,
it had constructed and was operating the road from Duluth, in
Minnesota, to Bismarck, in Dakota. On the 24th of October
of that year, the plaintiff in the court below, the defendant in
error here, was a brakeman in its yard at Bismarck, where its
cars were switched upon different tracks and its trains were
made up for the road. It was his duty, among other things, to
set and to loosen the brakes of the cars whenever necessary, and
whenever ordered .to do so by the yard-master. At the time
mentioned, he was ordered to -stop, with the brakes, two cars,
which had been switched upon a track in the yard. In obedience to this order he went upon the rear car and attempted to
set the brake attached to it, but the brake was so badly broken
and out of order that it could not be made to work. As soon
as he discoveret: this he stepped on the forward car in order to
stop it. The brake on that car was a "step-brake," and in order
to work it he was obliged to place his foot on the step attached
to the car below the top, and this brought his foot and leg between the two cars. This brake was also out qf order, and
while attempting to set it, his foot being upon the step, the car
struck another car on the track, and was suddenly stopped.
The draw-bar and bumper of the rear car had been pulled out,
and for want of them the two cars, when the forward one was
suddenly stopped, came violently together, crushing his leg, so
that amputation became necessary. To recover damages for
the injury sustained he brought this action against the com:
pany, alleging that it was its duty to provide good and safe
cars, and machinery, and apparatus of a like character for braking and handling them, and also to make rules and regulations
for switching and handling them in the yard, and for notifying
employgs of the condition of defective and broken cars, so that
they might not be subjected to unnecessary danger; but that it
neglected its duty in these particulars, and thereby, without his
fault, he was injured as stated.
In its answer the company admitted the allegations as to the
employment of the plaintiff and the injuries he had received,
but set up that it was his duty to know, and that he did know
the condition of each of the cars, and that he carelessly put his

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.

644

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.
leg between them when setting the bi'ake of the 'forward car,
and thus, through his own fault, 'suffered the injury of which
'hecomplains.
There wasa verdict in favor of the plaintiff for $25,000. A
mintion for a new trial was made on various grounds; aunong
others, that the damages were excessive. The court ordered
that a iiew trial be granted unless he remitted $15,000 of the
verdict, and in case he did so that the motion be denied. He
,remitted the amount, and judgment was entered in his favor
for the balance, and costs of suit, which the Supreme Court of
-the Territory affirmed. The defendant then sued out this writ
of error.
For the reversal of the judgment several brrors of the court
below are assigned; but, so far as they are deemed material,
they may be reduced to four: 1, in sustaining a challenge to a
'juror; 2, in denying a new trial on condition that the plaintiff
should remit a part of the sum awarded by the verdict; 3, in
refusing-to dismiss the suit at the close of the plaintiff's case;
4, in refusing to charge that the plaintiff should have taken
notice of the defects in the cars, and that he was guilty of such
negligence in that respect as to deprive him of a right to
recover.
XM. iv.P. Cloug for plaintiff in error (3Nr. George Gray,
was with him on the brief) as to the challenge, cited Strauder
v. IWest Virginia, 100 U. S. 303; Ex parte Virginia, 100
U. S. 339; -Neal v. Delaware, 103 IT. S. 370: as to the
-general question of liability, Hough v. Railway Co., 100 U.
S.' 213; Besel v. .1ew York Central & H udson River *Rail'road Co., 70 N. Y. 171; Zfing v. Boston & T &rcemterRailroad Co., 9 Cush. 112; Gilshannon v. Stony Brook Railroad
Co., 10 Cush. 228; Glman v. Eastern'RailroadCo., 10 Allen,
"233; Holden v. Fitchburgh Railroad Co., 129 Mass. 268;
Tfalker v. Boston & Aaine Railroad Co., 128 Mass. 8; Lanning v. New York Oentral Railroad Co., 49 N. Y. 521: that
the exception in the Dakota code did not apply, Yeaton v.
Boston & Lowell Railroad Co., 135 Mass. 418; Gib8on v.
"Northern Centra faiwau, Co., 29 N. Y. Supreme Ct. (22
.

NORTHERN PACIFIC R.R. CO. v. HERBERT.

645

Argument for Defendant in Error.

Hun) 289; .McCosker v. Long Island Railroad Co.j 84 N. Y.
77; Flannaga, v. Chicago c Hortwestern, Railway Co., 50
Wise. 462; Brick v. Rochester, -New York & Pennsylvania
Railroad Co., 98 N. Y. 211.
.Mr. Thomas Wilson, for defendant in error cited as to the
challenge, that it was without prejudice, Heaston v. Cincinvati f- Fort Wayne Railroad Co., 16 Ind. 275, 279; Atchison
Topekaa 6 Santa F4 Railroad Co. v. Franklin, 23 Kansas, 74;
Car2enter v. Dame, 10 Ind. 125, 130; Aforrison v. Lovejoy, 6
Minn. 319, 350; United States v. Cornell,'2 Mason, 91, 104,105;
ZTollis v. State, 8 Tex. App. 620; Grissom v. State, 8 Tex. App.
386; .3fe.inney v. State, 8 Tex. App. 626; State v. Lawler, 9
N. W. Rep. 698 ; Sullings v. Shakespeare, 9 N. W. Rep. 451 ;
Atlas .8Mning
Co. v. Johnston, 23 Mich. 36; Xlimms v. State,
16 Ohio St. 221, 228-9; Erwin v. State, 29 Ohio St. 186; Stdte
v. Elliott, 45 Iowa, 486; Barnes v. .Newton,46 Iowa, 567,;
West v. Forre8t,22 Missouri, 344; Herbert v. NYorthern Pacfto
Railroad Co., 13 N. W. Rep. 349; Sutton v. Fox, 55 Wise. 531,
540: to the proposition that theduty of maintaining machinery
in proper repair for the protection of employ 6 s operating it,
devolves upon the master, and he is liable for injuries resulting
from a failure to perform such duty; that even if not expressed,
this is implied in the contract between the parties; and that
the statute of Dakota made no change in this rule, ifough v.
Railway Co., 100 U. S. 213; WVabash Railway Co. v. .feDaniels,
107 U. S. 454; Chicago c6 .lilwaukee Railroad Co. v. Ross, 112
U. S. 377: to maintain that the rule that the master is not liable
to one servant for the negligence of a fellow-servant does not
exempt the master Iroln lhaiJility, for his own negligqnce, Fuler v. Jewett, 80 N. Y. 46; Ford v. Fitchburg Railro&d Co.,
110 Mass. 240, 261; Besex v. C. & Nf. W. Railway Co., 45
Wise. 477, 481; Shanny v. Androscoggin .3Mills, 66 Maine, 420,,
426; Drymala v. Thompson, 26 Minn. 40; Wedgwood v. C. &
N. i. Railway Co., 41 Wise. 478; Toledo, Peoria& Varsaw
Railroad Co. v. Conroy, 68 fll. 560: that it was* competent
for the court to deny a new trial on condition that plaintiff should remit part of the verdict, .Diblin v. JAurphy, 3

OCTOBER TERM, ,1885.
Opinion of the Court.

Sand. 19; Collins v. Albany & Sctenectady Railroad Co.,
12 Barb. 492; Blunt v. Little, 3 Mason, 102, 107; Einey v.
Wallace, 36 Cal. 462, 480, 481; aurray v. Hudson, River
Railroad Co., 47 Barb. 196, 205; Doyle v. -Dixon,97 Mass.
208, 213; Hayden v. FlorenceSewing Machine Co., 54 N. Y.
221; Belknap v. Bo8ton0 & .2aineRailroad Co., 49 N. Hf. 358;
C671ins v. City of Council Blufs, 35 Iowa, 432; Union Rolling
.ill Co. v. Gillen, 100 Ill. 52.
MiR. JUsTiC E FrLD delivered the opinion of the court. After
stating the facts as above reported, he continued:
1. As to the challenge to a juror.. It appears that one
Weaver, summoned as a juror, testified that he was a lumber
dealer, and that the company gave him a place on its right of
way for a lumber yard, without rent., and also that he had
heard the accident to the plaintiff spoken of and explained. It
.was not shown, however, that he had any actual bias for or.
against either party, or any belief or opinion touching the
merits of the case. He was, nevertheless, challenged, and the
allowance of the challenge constitutes the first error assigned.
It does nof appear whether the challenge was for cause or was
peremptory. Under the statute of Dakota each party is entitled to three peremptory challenges. It is for the party
asserting error to show it; it will not be assumed. But if we
regard the challenge as for cause, its allowance did not
prejudice the company. A competent and unbiased juror
was selected and sworn, and the company had, therefore, a
trial by an impartial jury, which was all it could demand.
United States v. Cornell, 2. Mason, 104 ; easton v. Cincinnati
& Fort Wayne Railroad Co., 16 Ind. 275, 279; Atchison,
Topeka & Santa Fj Railroad Co. v. Franklin,23 Kansas, 74;
Capenter v. -Dame,10 Ind. 125, 130;, orrLison v. Lovejoy, 6
Minn. 349, 350.
2. The exaction, as a condition of refusing a new trial, that
the plaintiff should remit a portion of the amount awarded by
the verdict was a matter within the discretion of the court. It
held that the amount found was excessive, but that no error
had been committed on the trial. In requiring the remission

NORTHERN PACIFIC R.R.-CO. v. HERBERT.

647

Opihion of the Cou±t.

-

of what was ,deemed excessive it did nothing more than require
the relinquishment of so much of the damages as, in its opinion,
the jury had improperly awarded. The corrected verdict
could, therefore, be properly allowed to stand. Hayden v. The
Florence Sewing MAfachine Co., 54: N. Y. 221, 225 ; Doyle v.
.Dixon,97 Mass. 208, 213; Blunt v. Little, 3 Mason, 102, 107.
3. The dismissal of the suit at the close of the plaintiffs case
was moved on the ground that the plaintiff had failed to.
establish a cause of action; and in support of this position it is
contended that the plaintiff was a fellow-servant of the officeror agent of the company, who was, charged with the duty of
keeping the cars in order, and, therefore, could ifot recover
against the company for injuries suffered by reason of the
latter's negligence, and that this exemption from liability is
declared by the statute of Dakota.
The general doctrine as to -the exemption of an employer
from liability for injuries to a servant, caused by the negligence,
of a fellow-servant in a common employment, is well settled.When several persons are thus employed there is necessarily
incident to the service of each the risk that the others may fail
in that care and vigilance which are essential to his safety. In
undertaking the service he assumes-that risk, and, if he should
siuffer, he cannot recover fiom his employer. He is supposed
to have .taken it into consideration when he arranged for his
compensation. As we said on a former occasion: " H e cannot
in reason complain if he suffers from a risk which he has
voluntarily assumed, and for the assumption of which he is
paid." Ckicago & XAfilwaukee Railroad Co. v. Ross, 112 U. S.

377, 3S3.
It is equally well settled, however, that it is the duty of the
employer to select and retain servants who are fitted and competent for the service, and to furnish sufficient and safe ,materials, machinery, or other means, by which it is to be performed,
and to keep them in repair and order. This duty he cannot
delegate to a servant so as to exempt himself from liability for
injuries caused to another servant by its omission. Indeed, no
duty required of him for the safety and protection of his servants can be transferred, so as to exonerate him from such

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

.liability. The servant does not undertake to 'incur the risks
arising from the want of sufficient and skilful co-laborers, or
from defective machinery or other instruments with which he
is to work. His contract implies that in regard to these mat-ters his employer will make adequate provision that no danger
shall ensue to him. This doctrine has been so frequently asserted by courts of the highest character, that it can hardly
be cofisidered as any longer open to serious question. It was
substantially declared in the recent case of Hough v. Railway
Co., 100 U. S. 213, 218, where we said that, notwithstanding a
railroad corporation may be controlled by competent, watchful
and prudent directors, and care and caution are exercised in the
selection of subordinates at the head of the several branches of
its service, its obligation still remains to provide and maintain
in a suitable condition the machinery and apparatus to be used
by its employes; and that it "cannot, in respect of such matters, interpose between it and the servant, who has been injured without fault on his. part, the personal responsibility of
.an agent, who, in exercising the master's authority, has violated the duty he owes, as well to the servant as to the corporation." In that case the engine of the railroad, coming
in contact with an animal, was thrown from the track over
an 'embankment, whereby the whistle fastened to the boiler
was forced out, thus permitting hot water and steam to escape,
which so scalded the engineer as to cause his death. The engine was thrown from the track because the cow-catcher or
pilot was defective; and the whistle was forced out because it
was insecurely fastened. These defects 'were owing to the
negligence of the company's master-mechanic and the foreman
of the round-house, to whom was committed the exclusive management of the motive power of the company, with control over
all the engineers employed. In an action by the widow and
child of the deceased the companyt set up as a defense that, if
the alleged defects existed, which it denied, they were owing
to the negligence of those servants, for which the company was
not liable, Tfhe "court held that the company was not thereby
exonerated from liability.
In PFe~te v. Boston & Albany Railroad Co., 53 N. Y. 549, it

NORTHERN PACIFIC R.R. CO. v. HERBERT.

649

Opinion of thd Court.

was held by the Court of Appeals of New York that a corporation is liable to an employ6 for negligence or want of proper
care in respect of such acts and duties as it was requifed to
perform as master or principal, ivithout regard to the rank or'
title of the agent entrusted with their performance, and that
as to such. acts the agent occupies the place of the corporation,
ancthat the latter is deemed to be present and consequently
liable4for the manner in which they are performed. There it
appeared that the accident; which caused the injury complained
of, was in consequence of an insufficient number of brakemen
on the cars of the company. The fact that the company had
an agent, whose business it was to make up the trains, to hire'
and station the brakemen, and to prepare and despatch the
trains, did not relieve-it from liability.
In Corcoranv. Holbrook, 59 X. Y., 517, it appeared that the
defendants operated a cotton mill, to the management of which
they gave no personal attention, but entrusted it to a general
agent with full power. In the mill was an devator used by the
employ~s, which became out of repair and unsafe, of --which the
agent had notice. He neglected to have it repaired and, an
employe was injured by its fall. The court held that the defendants were liable, that the general agent was not ,a mere
*fellow-servaut, but occupied the place of the owners, and that
they could not, by delegating their authority to another and
absdnting themselves, escape from liability for the non-performance of duties they owed to their employ~s. "As to acts," said
the court, "which a master or principal is bound as such to
perforn towards his employ~s, if he delegates the performance
of them to an agent, the agent occupies the place of the master,
anct the latter is deemed present and liable for the.manner in
which they are performed."
In Fuller v. Jewett, 80 N. Y. 46, an engineer on the Erie
•R iylmfy.was killed by thd explosion of the boiler of a lo6omotive, caused by its defective condition. To the action
brought by his administratrix, it was contended that the negligence of the mechanics in not keeping the boiler in a safe condition was the negligence of his co-employv6s in the service of
the company, for which it was not responsible. But the court

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

affirmed the principle of the decisions already cited, and held
that an act or duty which the mster, as such, is bound to perform for the safety and protection of his employ~s cannot be
delegated so as to relieve him from liability to a servant injured
by its omission or its negligent performance, whether the nonfeasance or misfeasance be that of a superior or inferior officer,
agent, or servant, to whom the doing of the act or the performance of the duty has been com~mitted. "In either case, in respect to such act or duty," said the court, "the servant who
undertakes or omits to perform it is the representative of the
master and not a mere co-servant with the one who sustains the
injury." Pantzar v. Tilly Foster Iron Co., 99 IN. Y. 368,
decided-the present'year by that court, is to the same effect.
In Ford v. FitchburgRailroad, 110 Mass. 240, which was a
,similar action for injuries caused by the explosion of an engine
boiler out of repair, the same defence was made, that the want
of repair' was owing to the negligence of a fellow-servant in
*the department of repairs, but the court said, that "the agents
who are charged with the duty of supplying safe' machinery
are not, in the true sense of the rule relied on, to be regarded as fellow-servants of those who are engaged in opera-'
ting it., They are charged with a master's duty to his servant.
They are employed in distinct and independent departments of
service, and there is no difficulty in distinguishing them, even
when the-same person rend6rs service by turns in each, as the
qonvenience of the employer may require. In one the master.
*cannot escape the consequence of the 'agent's negligence; if the
servant is injured in the other he may"' And the court held that
there was no error in a refusal to instruct the jury that the corporation was not liable unless the plaintiff proved that the president, directors or superintendent, either personally knew, or by
the exercise of reasonable care in the performance of their duties
might have known, of the existence of the defect in the engine
which caused the explosion, or that the persons employed to
have charge of the engine and keep it in repair were incompetent; observing that "the question was not whether the officers namedI knew, or might have known, of the defect or of
the 'in6om'etency of those who had charge of the repairs, but
-

-

NORTHERNl

PACIFIC R.RL CO. v. HERBERT.

651

Opinion of the Court.

whether the corporation in any part of its organization, by any,
of its agents, or for want of agents, failed to exercise due care.
to prevent injury to the plaintiff from defects in the instrument
furnished for his use."
In Shanny v. Andro8coggin, .Xilla, 66 Maine, 420, the actioni
was by an employd of the defendants for injuries to her hand
caused by insufficient and defective covering to machinery and
gearing, which she was employed to clean. On the trial tlio
defendants contended, among other things, that" if the defective covering was owing to .the negligence of a fellowservant, whosq duty it was to repair it, they were not liable.
But the court said, "that the person whose duty it was to keep
the machinery in order, so far as'that duty goes, ,was not, in
any legal sense, the fellow-servant of the plaintiff. To provide
machinery and keep it in repair, and to use it for the pfirjpos'
for which it was intended, are very distinct matters. They are
not employments in-the same common business, tending to the'
same common result. The one can properly be said to begin,
only when the other ends. The two persons may, indeed,,
work under the same master and receive their pay from the
same source; but this is not sufficient. They must be at the
time engaged in a common purpose or employed in the same
general business. We do not now refer to the different grades
of services about which there is considerable conflict of opinion,
but of the different employment. , In the repair of the
machinery the servant represeilted the master in the performance of his part of the contract, and, therefore, in the
language of the instructions, his negligence in that respect is.
the ' omission of the master or employer in contemplation of
law.'
N~umerous decisions from other courts to the same purport
might be added. Be8ex v. Chicago & Aorthwe8term "*Railway
Co., 45 Wise. 477, 481; Ifedgwood v. Ohicago & 3orthweeterm
.Railway. Co., 41 Wise. 478; Toledo, Peoria & Tyarsaw Railroad Co. v. Oonroy, 68 Ill. 560; .Drymala v. Tlwmpon, 26
Minn. 40. The doctrine laid down in them is specially applicable when the employer is a common carrier of passengers
and property, and steam is the motive power, inasmuch as any

652

"

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

defect in the machinery may be followed by serious disasters.
The same considirations which render him responsible in su6h
cases for the safe transportation of passengers and property
should :also impose upon him an equal responsibility to his
employes, so far as their safety depends upon the character and
condition of the machinery and appliances used in the transportation. Where the employ6 is not guilty of contributory
negligence, no irresponsibility should be admitted for an injury
to him caused by the defective condition of the machinery and
instruments with which he is required to work, except it could
npt have been known or guarded against by proper care and
vigilance on the part of his employer.
According to the authorities cited there can be no-question
,as-to the liability of the railroad company to the plaintiff for
the injuries he sustained. If no one was appointed by the
company to look after the condition of the cars, and see that*
the machinery and appliances used to move, and to stop them,"
Were kept in repair and in goodworking order, its liability for
the injuries would not be the subject of contention. , Its negligence in that case would have been in the highest degrtee
culpable. If, however, one was appointed by it charged with
,that duty, and the injuries resulted from his negligence in its
p'erformance, the company is liable. He was, so far as that
-duty is concerned, the representative of the company; his
,negligence was its negligence, and imposed a liability upon it,
.unless, as contended, it was relieved therefrom by the statute
of Dakota. Section 1130 of the Civil Code of that Territory
ii in these words:

-

"Co-miPLoy.-An employer is not bound to idemnify his
employ6 for losses 5uffered by the latter in consequence of the
ordinary risks of the business in which he is employed, nor in
consequence of the negligence of another person employed by
the same employer in the same gen6ral business, unless he has
neglected to use ordinary care in the selection of the culpable
e.mploy."
The-next section, 1131, is as follows:
"Em:pLOYE

's IEGUIGExn.--An employer must in all cases

NORTHERN PACIFIC, R.R. CO.' v HERBERT.

.653

Opinion of the Court.
indemnify. his employ6 for losses caused by the former's want
of ordinary care."
We do not consider that the first of these sections changes
the law previously existing as to the exemption of an employer,
from responsibility for injuries committed by a servant to a fellow-servant in the same general business, or identifies the business of providing safe machinery and keeping it in repair with
the business of handling and moving it. The two kinds of
business are as distinct as the making and repairing of a cariage is from the running of it. They are, as stated in the case
decided by the Supreme Court of MAassachusetts, from which we
have cited above, separate and independent departments of seiL,
vice, though the same person may, by turns, render service in
each. The person engaged in the former represents the employer, and in that business is not a fellow-servant with one engaged in the latter. The words "same general business " in the
section have reference to the general' business of the department
of service.in which the employ6 is engaged, and do not embrace
business of every kind which may have some.relation to the faffairs of the employer, or even be necessary for their successful
management. If any other construction were adopted there
would, under the section, be no such thing as separate departments of service in the business of railroad compani s; for
whatever would tend to aid in the tralisportation of persons
and property would come under the designation of its general,
business. The same section is in the civil code of California,
and our constructidn of it accords with that of the Supreme
Court of the State. In Beeon v. The Green 7jfountain Go~d
-Mining Company, 57 Cal. 20, the defendant, a corporation
'engaged in quartz mining, appointed a superintendent to supervise and manage its mining operations, with authority to employ and discharge laborers at the mine. One of the laborers
thus engaged lost his life in a fire, which- originated from a defective pipe put up by a tinner under the supervision of the
superintendent, and connected with the engine used to raise ore
and take water from the mine. It did not appear that the deceased knew or had reason to know of the defect. In an action
by his widow for damages in consequence of his death, it was

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

held, against the contention of the company, that .the superintendent was not a fellow-employe of the deceased in the sense
intended by the section; that, for the purposes of managing the
business and determining what machinery should be used and
how placed, he was the representative of the company, and
that the deceased was not bound to know whether a defect existed in the machinery and appliances not within his view, but
hiad a right to rely upon the implied engagement of the com.pany that the pipe was properly placed and constructed. It
was also held that the tinner in performing his share of the
work was nGt a fellow-servant of the deceased; that as his
Work was done under the direction and supervision of the superintendent, it was the same as if done by the superintendent in
person.
We do not perceive that the provision of the sixth section of
the Civil Code of Dakota; that in the Territory "there is no
common law in any case where the law is declared by the
codes," at all affects the question before us. There cannot 5e
two rules of law on the same subject-contradicting each other.
Therefore, where the code declares the law there can be no ocpasion to -look further; but where the code is silent the common
law prevails. What constitutes the "same general business" is
xiot defined by the code, but may be explained by adjddgcd
cases. The declaration by the code of a general rule; which
isconformable to existing law, does not prevent the courts
from looking -to those cases for explanation any more than it
prevents them from looking into the dictionary.for the meaning of words.
. Section 1131 bf the Dakota code expresses the general law,
as we have, stated it to be, tlat an emfloyer is responsible for
injuries to his employ4s ,caused by his own want of ordinary
care. UHis selection of defective machinery, which is -to -be
mdved- by steam porer, it of itself, evidence of a want of ordin'ary tare, and allwving it to iemain out of repair, when iM
-co.dfron^ isbrought to his notice, or by proper inspection
might bb known. is culpable negligence. Hdre, the cars had
been Uedective for years. The brakes were all worn out, and
their condition had-bden, call&l to the attention of the yardz

NORTHERN PACIFIC R.R. CO. v. HERBERT.

655

Opinion of the Court.
master, who had control of them while in the yard, and might
have been ascertained, upon proper inspection, by the officer or
agent of the company charged with the duty of keeping them
in repair, yet nothing was done to repair either brakes or cars.
Under these circumstances it cannot be said that the company
exercised, through its officer or agent charged with that duty,
ordinary care to keep the cars and brakes in good condition,
and, therefore, under the provisions of this section, it is bound
to indemnify the plaintiff.
4. As to the alleged negligence of the plaintiff only a few
words need be said. Of course, he was bound to. exercise care
'to avoid injuries to himself. If be had known, or might have
known by ordinary attention, the condition of the brakes and
cars when he mounted the cars, and thus exposed himself to
danger-in other words, if he did not use his senses as men
generally use theirs to keep from harm-he cannot complain ofthe injury which he suffered. Ble had been employed in the
yard only one day before the accident occurred, and it does not,
appear that the, defects in the brakes or cars were brought to
his notice, though there was some evidence that statements as
to their defective condition were made in his presence and
hearing. He testifies that he saw no defect in either of them,
and was not apprised of any. ' The defect in the brakes was
not patent to the eye; it could be known only from an attemptto set them, or by information from others. He bad a right,
therefore, to assume, without such information, that they were.
in a condition in which it was safe to mount the cars to set
them, when ordered by the yard-master.
It was contended in the court below that the plaintiff might
have inferred from the manner in which the cars were attached,
that there was a defect in them. The manner of their attachment showed nothing as to the condition of the"brakes; and
,the court left the question of his negligence to the jury. It
instructed them that if, from the unusual .appearance of the car
upon which he was engaged, as, for instance, its being attached
to the next car by chains, or if from any statements of the
yard-master or car-repairer, he had reason to believe that the
car in question was defective or had been broken, he .was

656

OCTOBER TERM, 1885:
Concurring Opinion: Harlan, 3.

bound to take care not to expose his person to injuries which ,a
broken and defective car might cause; and, further, that if
they found from the evidence*that the company was guilt'y of
negligence in not providing proper and safe machinery and
appliances, in consequence of Wkhich neglect the injury was
received, still, if he failed to exercise that prudence, care, and
caution which prudent men, under similar circum'stances, would
ordinarily exercise , and he thereby contributed approximately
to the injury, he was not entitled to recover.
* The verdict of the jury, upon these instructions and others
of.thle same- general purport, negatived any imputation o
negligence on his part. We see, therefore, no error on the
trial, axid the judgment below must be

Affirmed.
MR. JusTuic, HAnLAff concurring.
I concur in the opinion just delivered by -Mr. Justice Field,
and will add a few suggestions in support of the conclusion
reached by the court.
' It is contonded, on behalf of the railroad company, that if it
used ordinary care in the 8eeetion of the employ6 to whose
negligence the plaintiff's injuries are attributed, it is protected
from liability by section 1130 of the Dakota code, even if such
-ctlpable employ6 had superior'or controlling authority over the
-injurdd emplby6, and even if the injuries were caused by the
defective condition of the appliances and machinery provided
by the company through its agents for the use of the employ6
so injured. For-it is argued-the words "the same general
.business" in that section embrace -every branch or department
of the. common employer's business, and no distinction is
,therein made between employes in respect of grades or the
nature of the particular service rendered by them. Even if
that were admitted to be a proper construction of section 1130,
standing by itself, the inquiry still arises as to the object of
section 1131, .which declares that the employer "must, in all
cases, indemnify his employe for losses caused by the former'8
want of ordinary care." The latter section was plainly intended to cover cases not provided for in the preceding sec-

NOITHERNE

PACIFIC.R.R. CO. v. HERBERT.

65T

Concurring Opinion: Hlarlan, J.

tion. If one section applies to corporations, the other equally
applies to them. The two sections must be construed together.
And so construed, it is manifest that, while the statute establishes the rule that the employer is not bound to indembify his
employ' "for losses suffered by the latter in consequence of
the ordinary risks of the business in which he is employed, nor
in consequence of the negligence of another person, employed
by the same employer in the same general business," it; aso,
with equal distinctness, declares two exceptions to that rile:
1. Where the employer has neglected to use ordinary care in.
the selection of the employ6 whose negligei-e caused the losses
in question. 2. Where the losses were caused by the employer's! own want of ordinary care. The latter exception is as
explicitly declared as is the former, and cannot be ignored or
nullified by construction.
What case is more distinctly within section 1131 than, one
where a railroad company fails to appoint some one to provide
and maintain machinery and appliances safe and suitable for
use by its employes, or where its agent or emploY6, appointed
to that duty, does not exercise ordinary care in its discharge?
Such an agent or employe is, of necessity, the representative of
the corporation, and his- want of ordinary care, in resject -of
such matters, is negligence upon the part of the corporation itself. It cannot, in reference to those matters, whatever it may.
be permitted to do in reference, to other matters connected
with its business, "interpose between it and the servant who
has been injured, without fault on his part, the personal responsibility of an agent." That is clearly shown in the opinion of
the court. Between an agent; charged with the performance.
of the company's duty to prove and maintain safe and suitable
appliances and machinery, and the employes .who use them,the relation of fellow-servants does not exist. The want of
ordinary care upon his part, is, in the, language of section 1131,
and according to the weight. of judicial authority, a want of
ordinary care upon the part of the corporation itself. This'
case, therefore, comes within that section.
M_ . JusTicE BLATCHFORD, with whom concurred MR. JUsTiE
VOL. cx--42

•:65S

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Dissenting Opinion-: Bradley, Matthews, Gray, ,Blatehford, J7.

BRADLEY,

MR. JusnIon

iMT'rmws, and Mu. JusTICE

GRAY,

dis-

senting.
Mr. JusTicE BRADLEY, Mj. JusT CE MATTHWs, MR.JusTIcE
GAY and myself are unable to concur in the judgment of the
court in this case.
The Civil Code of Dakota (sections 6 and 2129), provides as
follows:
"Sec. 6. In this Territory there is no common law, inany
case where the law is declared by the Codes."
"Sec. 2129. The rule of the common law, that statutes in
"derogation thereof are to le strictly construed, has no applicatfon to this Code. This Code establishes the law of this,
-Territory respecting the subjects to which it relates; and its
:provisions are to be liberally construed, with a view to effect
its objects and to promote justice."
The rules of the common law are, therefore, not applicable,
in Dakota, in any case where the statute law is declared in the
Civil Code, on the subject, and that statute law is not to be
4onstrued strictly,.but liberally, with a view to effect its objects
and to promote justice.
.Now, what is the statute law of Dakota on the subject involved in this case? It is -found in sections 1129, 1130 and
1131 of the Civil Code, as follows:
"See. 1129. An employer must indemnify his employe, except as prescribed in the next section, for all that he necessarily
expends or loses in direct consequence of the discharge of his
duties as such, or of his. obedience to the directions of the employer, even though unlawful, unless the employ6, at the time
of obeying such directions, believed them to be unlawful.
"See. 1130. An employer is' not bound to indemnify his employ6 for losses suffered by the latter in consequence of the ordin'ary risks of the business in which he is employed, nor in consequence of the negligence of another person employed by the same
employer in the same general business, unless he has neglected
to use ordinary care in the selection of the culpable. employ6.
"Sec. 1131. An employer must, in all cases, indemnify his
employe for losses caused by the former's want of ordinary care."
These provisions are very clear. The language used in see-

NORTHERN PACIFIC R.R. CO. v. HERBERT.

659

Dissenting Opinion: Bradley, Matthews, Gray, Blatehford, 3.

tion 1130, "another person employed by the same employer in
the same general business;" indicates that, in the view of the
three sections of the Code in question, a co-employ6 is another.
person employed with the employ6, by the same employer, in
the same general business. Therefore, wherever the word
"employ6" is used in any one of the three sections, it means a
person who may be such a co-employ6.
By section 1129, the railroad company is not bound to indemnify Herbert, except as prescribed in section 1130, for
what he necessarily expended or lost by discharging the duty
he did, in reference to the freight cars. What is prescribed in
section 1130 is this: The company is not bound to indemnify
Herbert for what he so lost in consequence of the negligepce
of his co-employ~s in the same general business, unless the company neglected ordinary care in the selection of such coemploy~s. No want of care in such selection is alleged, and
the action is sought to be maintained, and the verdict for the
plaintiff ibay have been rendered, not on the neglect of the
corporation itself to provide and maintain suitable cars, brakes,
draw-bars, and bumpers, but on the neglect of inferior employ~s of the corporation to keep them in repair. This is
clearly shown by the refusal of the Court to .instruct the jury,
as requested by the defendant, that the plaintiff could not recover by "reason of any acts of negligence on the part of any;
other persons employed by the defendant in the same general
business with the plaintiff," and that "this would include the,
yard-master and car-repairer;" and by the fact, that, on the
contrary, it instructed them, that "the negligence of those
entrusted by the corporation with the power and duty of procuring or keeping in repair such machinery is, in law, the
negligence of the corporation."
It is sought to destroy the application of section' 1129 and
1130 to this case, by invoking the rule set forth in section 1131,
that "an employer must, in all cases, indemnify his employ6
for losses caused by the former's want of ordinary care," and
by saying, that, in this case, the company did not exercise ordinary care, because the co-employ6s of Herbert were guilty of
the negligence which caused his injury. But that is the very

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Dissenting Opinion : Bradley, Matthews, Gray, Blatchford, JJ.

case provided for by section 1130; and the doctrine of the
court comes to this, in Dakota, that even though a railroad'corporation, acting by its board of directors, exercises ordinary
care in the selection of its employes, and provides adequate and,
competent machinery, outfit and appliance., and prescribes
proper rules and regulations for their use, and has no knowledge or notice of -any defects in them, and no circumstances
-exist suffi6ient to charge it with such knowledge or notice, it is
g9ilty of want of ordinary care, within section 1131, towards
an employ6 who is injured by the negligence of his co-emply6s in thd same general business, by the mere fact of the
happening of such injury through such negligence, although
section 1130 distinctly declares, that, in such a case, the employer shall not be liable to the injured employe.
It is a rule for. the -construction of statutory provisions,
especially those embraced in the same statute, that all must be
construed so that all shall have effect, if possible. There is
ample scope for the application of section 1131, by limiting it
to cases not embraced within section 1180. Otherwise, no force
is given to section 1130.
The failure to give proper effect to section 1130 is the nmore
marked, because,'with one exception, the only authorities cited
in the opinion of the court, to sustain its views, are cases decided where the common law prevails, and not where such
statutory provisions as those in Dakota exist-provisions which
declare that the common law is abrogated as to the subjectmatter of the controversy in this suit.
Sections 4, 1969, 1970, and 1971, of the Civil Code of Cali.
fornia, are the same, respectively, as sections 2129, 1129, 1130,
and 1131, of the Civil Code of Dakota. But there is nothing
in the case of Beeson v. Green,Mfountain Gold fining Co., '57
Cal. 20, cited in the opinion of the majority of the court, which
sanctions the view that the yard-master or the car-repairer in
the present case was not "a person employed in the same general
business" with Herbert, within the meaning of such a statute.
Considering the case to be governed by the. local statate, we
express no opinion upon the question whether the instructions
given to the jury accorded with the rules of the common law.

