OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Statement of Facts.

UNITED STATES v. REDGRAVE.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
Submitted January 6,1886.-Decided January 25, 1886.

Cadet-engineers who had finished their four years' course at the Naval Academy, had passed their final academic examinations, and had received their
diplomas before the passage of the act of August 5, 1882, 22 Stat. 284, be.
came graduates, and were not made naval cadets by that act.
The piovisiou in the act of August 5, 1882, 22 Stat. 284, for the discharge of
surplus naval cadet graduates was prospective only, and did not apply to

the classei of 1881, and 1862.

,The facts of the case brought here by this appeal, as found
by the Court of Claims, were in substance as follows:
In 1877 the appellee, who was the claimant below, entered
the Naval Academy as a cadet-engineer, and on June 10, 1881,
received a certificate signed by its officers that he had completed the prescribed course of study at the academy and had
successfully passed the required examination before the academic board. He was on the same date detached from the
academy and ordered to report for duty on board the U. S.
practice steamer Mayflower. On August 30, 1881, he was
detached from the Mayflower and ordered to proceed home
on waiting orders. On October 28, 1881, he was ordered to
proceed to the navy-yard at League Island for duty on board
,the United States Steamship Essex. On April 16, 1883, he reported to the superintendent of the Naval Academy, in pursuance of orders, for exajnination, which assumed that the act of
Congress of August 5,1882, operated upon him as a naval-cadet,
requiring a six years' course before graduation, and a final examination at its conclusion. On June 23; 1883, he was detached from the Naval Academy on waiting orders. On June
26, 1883, the Secretary of the Navy addressed to him a letter,
in which it was recited that he had successfully completed his six
years' course at the Naval Academy, and had received a certificate of graduation by the academic board, but "not being
required to fill any vacancy in the naval service happening

UNITED STATES v. REDGRAVE.
Statement of Facts.

during the year preceding your graduation, you are hereby.,
honorably discharged from the 30th of June, 1883, with one
year's sea-pay, as prescribed by law for cadet-midshipmen, in
accordance with the provisions of the act of Congress approved
August 5, 1882."
From August 5, 188, to June 30, 1883, the claimant was
paid $769.86 for service in the Navy during that period. If
paid during the same, period as a graduated cadet-engineer he
would have been entitled to receive $796.71.
Since then the claimant has received no pay and has been
held by the Navy Department and the accounting officers of
the Treasury to be out of the naval service.
Aftei leaving the Academy, the claimant and all his classmates were classified on the official Navy Register, issued in
July, 1881, as having "graduated;" and up to August 5, 1882,
they were regularly paid as such at the, rates prescribed by ,
section 1556 of the Revised Statutes, viz.: $1000 at sea, $800
on shore duty, and $600 on leave or waiting orders. In the
same manner the cadet-engineers who completed their four
years' course in i878, 1879, and 1880 were all regularly classified in the succeeding-Navy Registers as having graduated iri
those years respectively; and prior to August 5, 1882, they
were all uniformly paid as such.
The regulations prescribing the qualifications for appointment of cadet-engineers fixed a higher average age by two
years for cadet-engineers entering the Academy than was required by law for cadet-midshipmen so entering. After completing the four years' course, cadet-engineers were permanently
detached from the Academy, and were never required to return
to that institution. They remained in active service at sea, or
upon other duty, two or three years, or longer, until vacancies
occtrred in the grade of assistant engineer, when they were
ordered singly or in groups for examination for promotion,
under the provisions of section 1392 of the Revised Statutes,
before a board of engineer officers, which held its sessions at
Philadelphia.
The last two years of the academic course of cadet-midshipmen were spent "at sea in other than practice ships." After

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

four years at the Academy they were temporarily detached
from that institution by orders from the Navy Department,
and ware sent to sea singly or in squads. On shipboard they
performed such active duties as were assigned to them. At
'the end of the two years, thqy were required to return and did
return to the Naval Academy, where they were subjected to a
"final graduating examination" before the academic board.
If successful at such examination, they received appointments
as midshipmen, and were thereafter classified in the Navy
:Register as having "graduated" at that date, and they were
never so designated either in the Navy Register or elsewhere
-until after they had passed such examination at the end of the
six years' course.
The provisions of the act of August 5,1882, being the naval
appropriation act, 22 Stat. 284, ch. 391, which apply to the
case, are as follows :
"For the pay of the Navy, for the active list, namely:
Sixty-nine chief engineers, one hundred past-assistant
engineers, thirty-five assistant evgineers, seventy-three cadetengineers (graduates),

.

.

one hundred and two cadet-

engineers, one hundred and thirty cadet-midshipmen (not
,graduates); in all four million forty-eight thousand three hundred.dollars: Provided,That hereafter there shall be no appointments of cadet-midshipmen -or cadet-engineers 'at the
Naval Academy, but in lieu thereof naval cadets shall be appointed from each Congressional district and at large, as now
provided by law for cadet-midshipmen, and all the undergraduates at the Naval Academy shall hereafter be designated
and called 'naval cadets.' And from those who successfully
complete the six years' course, appointments shall hereafter be
made, as it is necessary to fill vacanciesg in the lower grades of
the line, and Engineer Corps of the Navy and of the Marine
Corps: Andprovided further, That no greater number of appointments into these grades shall be made each year than shall
equal the number of vacaficies which has occurred in the same
grades during the preceding year; such appointments to be
made from the graduates of the year, at the conclusion of their
six years' course in the order of merit, as determined by the

UNITED STATES v. REDGRA7E.
Statement of Facts,

academic board of the Naval Academy, the assignment to the
various corps to be made by the Secretary of the Navy, upon
the recommendation of thfe academic board. But nothing
herein contained shall reduce the number of appointments from
such graduates below ten in each year, nor deprive of such ajpointment any graduate who may complete the six years"
course during the year eighteen hundred and eighty-two. And
if there be a surplus of graduates, those who do not receive
such appointment shall be given a certificate of graduation, an
honorable discharge, and one year's sea-pay, as now provided
by law for cadet-midshipmen.
"That the pay of naval cadets shall be that, now allowed by
law to cadet-midshipmen, and as much of the money hereby
appropriated as maybe necessary during the fiscal year ending
June thirtieth, eighteen hundred and eighty-three, shall be Iexpended for that purpose.
"That no officer now in the service shall be reduced in rank
or deprived of his commission by reason of any provision of
this act reducing the number of officers in the several staff
corps: Provided, That no further appointments of cadetengineers shall be made by the Secretary of the Navy under
section three of the act of eighteen hundred and smventy-four."
The Court of Claims, following its previous decision in the
case of -Leopold v. United States, 18 C. C1. 546, affirmed the
following propositions of law •
"1st.Cadet-engineers who had finished their four years'
course at the Naval Academy, passed their final academic examinations, and received their diplomas before the passage of
the act of August 5, 1882, 22 Stat. 284, became graduates, and
are not made naval cadets by that act. They are therefore
entitled to pay provided by the Revised Statutes, section 1556,
page 268. 2d. The provision in the act of August 5, 1882, for
the discharge of surplus naval cadet graduates is prospective
only, and does not apply to the classes of 1881 and 1882." 20
C. Cl. 226.
Judgment was accordingly rendered in favor of the claimant, from which this appeal was prosecuted by the United
States.

,OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

2fr. Assistant Attorney-General .Mcuqy for appellant.

Ar.J. * -Douglassfor appellee.
Jus~mr.
MArraEws delivered the opinion of the court.
In order to understand the operation of the act of August 5,
1882, upon the status of cadet-engineers, at the time it took
effect, it will be necessary to consider what that was, according.
to laws then in force. That class or grade in the naval service
owes its origin to provisions of law, now contained in the Revised Statutes, as follows:
"SEC. 1522. The Secretary of the Navy is authorized to
make provision, by regulations issued by him, for educating at
the Naval Academy, as naval-constructors or steam-engineers,
such midshipmen, and others, as may show a peculiar aptitude
therefor. ITe may, for this purpose, form a separate class at
the Academy, to be styled cadet-engineers, or otherwise afford
to such persons all proper facilities for such a scientific mechanical education as will fit them for said professions.
" 6SE.
1523. Cadet-engineers shall be appointed by the
Secretary of the Navy. They shall not at any time exceed
fifty in number, [Reduced to twenty-five by the act of June 22,
1874, § 3,18 Stat. 191, Sup. Rev. Stat. 83,] and no person, other
than midshipmen, shall be eligible for appointment unless they
shall first produce satisfactory evidence of mechanical skill and
.proficiency, and shall have passed an examination as to their
mental and physical qualifications.
"SEC. 1524. The course for cadet-engineers shall be four
years, including two years of service on naval steamers. [By
the act of February 24, 1874, 18 Stat. 17, Sup. Rev. Stat. 6,
this provision was changed so as to require the course of instruction at the Naval Academy for cadet-engineers to be four
years instead of two, but not dispensing with the additional
two years' service on naval steamers.]
"SEC. 1525. Cadet-engineers shall be examined from time to
time, accordirig to regulations prescribed by the Secretary of the
Navy, and if found deficient at any examination, or if dismissed
for misconduct, they shall not be continued in the Academy or
M.

UNITED STATES v. REDGRAVE.
Opinion of the Court.

in the service except upon the recommendation of the academic
board."
By -§1394 Rev. Stat. it was provided, that "cadet-engineers
who are graduated with credit in the scientific and mechanical
class of the Naval Academy may, upon the recommendation of
the academic board, be appointed by the President, and confirmed by the Senate, as second assistant engineers;" but by
§ 1392 no person could be so appointed until after he had been
found qualified by a board of competent engineers and medical officers designated by the Secretary of the Navy. By
1556 Rev. Stat. the pay of cadet-engineers was, "before final
academic examination, five hundred dollars; after final academic examination and until warranted as assistant engineers,
when on duty at sea, one thousand dollars; on shore duty,
eight hundred dollars; on leave or waiting orders, six hundred
dollars."
At the same time the students at the Naval Academy styled
cadet-midshipmen were required to take an academic course of
six years, § 1520 Rev. Stat., when, having passed successfully
the graduating examination at the Academy, they were entitled to receive appointments as midshipmen. § 1521 Rev.
Stat. The pay of cadet-midshipmen was five hundred dollars;
for midshipmen, after graduation, when at sea, one thousand
dollars; on shore duty, eight hundred dollars; on leave or
waiting orders, six hundred dollars. § 1556. Rev. Stat. By
the act of March 3, 1877, 19 Stat. 390, Sup. Rev. Stat. 294,
cadet-midshipmen, "during such period of their course of instruction as they shall be at sea in other than practice ships,
are entitled to receive, as annual pay, nine hundred and fifty
dollars."
It is contended on the part of the Government, in opposition
to the conclusions of the Court of Claims, that the act of August
5, 1882, when it took effect converted all cadet-engineers who
had not completed their six years' course during thqt year into
naval cadets, all other cadet-engineers being regarded as graduates ; and that those who were not at that time graduates in
that sense were subject to the provisions of the act in regard
to pay and discharge.

480'

4OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

The controversy would seem to turn on the meaning to be
given to the word "gfaduates" as used in this act of Congress.
It is certain that the act divides all who, at the date when it.
took effect, were known as cadet-engineers, into two classesgraduates and not graduates. Prior to that date a cadet-engineer might be pursuing the four years' course of study at the
Academy, or the two additional years of service on board a
naval steamer, or, having successfully passed both periods,
might be waiting promotion to the grade of assistant engineer.
It is found as a fact by the Court of Claims that, before the
passage of the act, cadet-engineers who had successfully passed
their examination at the end of the four years' course of study
at the Academy, were called and considered graduates. The
seventy-three cadet-engineers, styled graduates, for whose pay
the act of August 5, 1882, makes appropriation, include all of
that description, and, among them, the appellee in this case,
while the one hundred and two cadet-engineers, styled in the
same act "not graduates," are those who at that date were still
at the Academy pursuing their four years' course. This classification was followed by the Navy -Department in the Navy
Register. The Naval Appropriation Act of March 3, 1883, 22
Stat. 472, ch. 97, provides for the pay of sixty-two cadetengineers, which it is not denied is the exact number of cadetengineers who had graduated at the Academy, but were not yet
eligible to promotion, or whose promotion had.been delayed,
and includes the classes who completed their four years' course
in 1880, 1881, and 1882. The same act appropriates for the pay
of three hundred and thirty-five naval cadets, being presumably
the whole -number of the "under-graduates" referred to in the
act of August 5, 1882.
This would seem to settle the meaning of the words, according to the sense adjudged by the Court of Claims, unless some
other meaning is required to be attached to them by other and
controlling provisions of the same act. It is argued by the
Assistant Attorney-General that a consistent reading of the
entire context does in 'fact require such. other meaning to be
'given to the words "graduates" and "not graduates."
In support of this conclusion our attention is called to the

UNITED STATES v. REDGRAVE.

481.

Opinion of the Court.

provisos of the act, whereby it is enacted that appointments to
fill vacancies in the 1ower grades of the line and the engineer
corps, and of the marine corps, shall be thereafter made only
from those who successfully complete a six years' course as
naval cadets; that no appointments into these grades shall be
made each year, except to fill vacancies therein which occurred
during the preceding year; that such appointments are to be
made only from the graduates of the year at the conclusion of
their six years' course; that the exception made, that a graduate
who completed his six years' course during the year 1882 shall
not be deprived of his appointment, carries with it the implication that those who had not completed a six years' course at that
time were included in the rule of exclusion; and that the surplus, of graduates, not receiving such appointment, are therefore
subject 'to discharge from the service, on graduation, with otie
year's sea-pay, in the language of the act "as now provided by
law for cadet-midshipmen." No similar provision of law then
in force relating to cadet-midshipmen however appears, and the
reference is without application. Such a provision did exist
in reference to the appointment of graduates of the Military
Academy as second lieutenants of the Army, and the discharge
of supernumeraries after July 1, 1882, by virtue of § 3 of the,
act making appropriations 'for the support of the Military
Academy, approved June I1, 1878, 20 Stat. 108, Sup. Rev:.
Stat. 346, but no such legislation in regard to cadet-midshipmen is to be found in force at the date of the act of August 5,1882. This, however, is not important, as nothing depends on
the accuracy of this reference.
The general purpose of this act is quite apparent. One main
object was to abolish the distinctions previously made by law
between cadet-engineers and cadet-midshipmen, and for the
future to merge both classes in the new designation of naval
cadets. The previous differences between them grew out of
separate provisions as to their number, their manner of appointment, their course and term of study, and their pay after their
four years' course at the Academy. Another principal purpose
of the act was to prevent the increase of the number of officers
in the navy, by providing for the annual discharge from the
VOL. cx--31

'OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

service of all graduates of the year not needed to fill vacancies,
in the grade to which they were eligible for promotion, actually
existing at the time of their graduation. But this was to be
accomplished consistently with the declaration of the act,
"thdt no officer now in the service shall be reduced in rank or
deprived of his commission by reason of any provision of this
act,reducing the number of officers in the several staff corps."
And to this end the whole scheme of reform embodied in the
legislation was made prospective. Its express language is, that
no appointments of cadet-midshipmen or cadet-engineers shall
be made hereafter; that all the under-graduates at the Naval
Academy shall hereafter be designated and called "naval
cadets;" that from those, that is those now called naval cadets,'
who successfully complete their six years' course, appointments shall hereafter be made as it is necessary to fill vacancies
in the lower grades of the line, and engineer corps of the Navy
and of the marine corps. But none of these provisions touch
the case of the cadet-engineer who has already graduated, at
the date of the act, that is, who had at that time successfully
completedjhis four years' course of study at the Academy and
was serving on board a naval steamer. And the further provisions limiting the number of appointments to the number of
vacancies occurring during the preceding year, and providing
for -the discharge of the surplus graduates, equally refer. to
those who become graduates after the year 1882, under this
act, which now requires for graduation a full course of six
years for all naval cadets, including the two years of service on
board a naval steamer, which before had constituted the service
of a cadet-engineer after graduatiodf. This leaves the state
and condition of cadet-engineers, who at 'the date of the
passagp of the act were already-graduates according to the law
as it then stood, unchanged, and to-this class the appellee belonged. lHe is therefore entitled to the pay claimed and withheld, and the judgment of the Court of Claims in his fayor is
therefore
Afflrmed.

