kOBlE' v. WATSON.

289.

Statement of Facts.

given to it in every other State in which it mdy be sued on,
whatever may be the rule that there prevails in respect to its
domestic judgments. Such was the ground of decision in
Burt v. -Delano,4 Cliff. 611, 618, and in Stockwell v. AHCrackem,
109 Mass. 84, as well as in the case of Hanley v. Donoghue,
already referred to.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of 2New Hampshire is
reversed, and the cause is remanded, with instructionsto
to take such further proceedings therein as are not inconaistnt with this opinion.

MOBILE v. WATSON.
SAME v. UNITED STATES, ex rel. WATSON.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF ALABANMA.
Argued December 10, 11, 188.-Decided January4, 188.

When a mhunicipal corporation with fixed boundaries is dissolved by law, and
a new corporation is created by the legislature for the same general purposes, but with new boundaries, embracing less territory but containing sub:
stantially the same population, the great mass of the taxable property, and
the corporate property of the old corporation which passes without consideration and for the same uses, the debts of the old corporation fall upon the
new corporation as its legal successor; and powers of taxation to pay them,
which it had at the time of their creation and which entered into the contracts, also survive and pass into the new corporation.

The object of the first of these suits was the recovery of a
judgment for money, and of the second the enforcement, by
the writ of mandamus, of the judgment recovered in the first.
They were argued as one case. In the first case Henry Watson, the defendant in error, was the plaintiff in the Circuit
Court. He brought his action against, the Port of Mobile to
recover the principal money due on certain bonds issued by the
City of Mobile, under its corporate name, "The Mayor, Aldermen anq Common Council of the City of Mobile," and the
v6. cxv-19

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

interest on the same shown to be due by certain coupons
thereto appended. The bonds were issued December 31, 1859,
,were for $1000 each, and were payable to the order of the
Mobile and Great Northern -Railroad Company on the first
day of January, 1879, with interest at the rate of eight per
cent. pcr annum. Upon the margin of each bond was the following recital: "In pursuance of the terms of the contract
-between the corporate authorities of the City of Mobile and
the Mobile and Great Northern Railroad Company, an ordinance approved on the .30th December instant, provides for
the sum of $95,000 by a special tax annually to be applied to
the payment of $1,000,000 of bonds to be issued by the City
of Mobile to aid in the construction of the Mobile and Great
Northern Railroad."
The declaration averred that the defendant, The Port of
Mobile, was "the legal successor of the said The Mayor, Aldermen and Common Council of the City of Mobile, and bounden
for its debts and for the payment of the said bonds and coupons."
The defendant pleaded "that the said alleged bonds and
coupons were issued by the Mayof, Aldermen and Common
Council of the City of Mobile, a different municipal corporation, and not by this defendant, nor by any one authorized to
bind this defendant in the premises; that this defendant is not
the successor in ]Iw nor in fact of the said The Mayor, Aldermen and Common Council of the City of Mobile, nor is this
defendant legally bounden to pay the said debt."
In the record there was a paper, entitled "Agreement of
Facts," signed by the counsel for the parties. By this paper
it was admitted that the contract between the City of Mobile
and the Mobile and Great Northern Railroad Company, recited in the margin of the bonds, had been made and the ordinance therein referred to had been passed, and that the plaintiff
became the legal holder of the bonds and coupons for value
before maturity by the assigmuent of the railroad company.
It was further agreed that two acts were passed by the legislature of Alabama on the 11th day of February, A.D. 1879, one
entitled "An Act to vacate and annul the charter and dissolve

MOBILE v. WATSON.
Statement of Facts.

the corporation of the City of Mobile, and to provide for the
application of the assets thereof in discharge of the debts of
said corporation," and the other "An Act to incorporate the
Port of Mobile and to provide for the government thereof;"
said acts were referred to and made part of the agreement.
It was further agreed that all the territory now embraced in
the Port of Mobile was formerly embraced in the City of Mobile; that the territorial extent of the City of Mobile was about
seventeen square miles, and of the Port of Mobile about eight
square miles; that the Port of Mobile covered all the thickly
settled and closely built portion of the City of Mobile; that the
taxable property within the latter, according to the last assessment made by it prior to the passage of the acts of February
11, 1879, was $16,255,093, and that all of said taxable property
was embraced within the limits of the Port of Mobile, except
about $900,000, and that about fourteen-fifteenths of the resi(lent inhabitants of the City of Mobile were resident inhabitants of the Port of Mobile. It was further admitted that the
total indebtedness of the City of Mobile on February 11, 1879,
was about $2,500,000, and that it had nominal assets of $775,000,
which were largely reduced for the general creditor by prior
liens and exemption from levy by execution.
It appeared by the record that the case was submitted to the
jury on June 29, 1880, which, on that day, returned a general
verdict for the plaintiff, and assessed his damages at $7308.80,
upon which the court at once rendered judgment in his favor.
A writ of error sued out by the Port of Mobile brought this
judgment under review.
The only question raised upon the trial was, whether as matter of law, upon the statutes of the State of Alabama, the Port
of Mobile was the legal successor of the City of Mobile, and
bound for the payment of the bonds and coupons sued on. The
validity of the judgment in the case of The Port of Mobile,
plaintiff in error, against Watson, would therefore depend upon
the answer to that question.
The plaintiff having obtained his judgment against the Port
of Mobile, sued out, May 27, 1881, execution thereon, which,
on the same day, was returned by the marshal "no property

;'I

292'

OCTOBER TERM; 1885.
Statement bf Facts

found," Afterwards, on the 19th day. of January, 1882, he
filed in the Circuit Court his petition, in Which he prayed for'
the writ of mandamus, and charged that the Police Board of
the Port of Mobile had the right, and it was their duty, to assess and levy a special tax for the satisfaction of his judgment.
He therefore prayed for the writ to compel the Port of Mobile
and its officers charged with the levying and collection of taxes
to assess, levy, and collect a special tax for the payment of his
judgment.
In order to understand the questions raised by this petition,
itwill be necessary to state more fully the contract made by
the City of Mobile with the Mobile and Great Northern Rail-road Company in reference to the issue of the series *of bonds
.in question, and the legislation of the State of Alabama in
reference to the City of Mobile and the Port of Mobile.
By the act of the legislature, approved February 29, 1859,
the City of Mobile was authorized to aid the construction of the
railroad of said company by an issue to the company of bonds
of the city to the amount of $1,000,000, under such contract as
the city might make with the railroad company, and was vested
with power to adopt the ordinances necessary to carry out such
contract. In pursuance of this authority the City of Mobile, on
Dec. 30, 1859, entered into a contract with the railroad company, in which, among other things, it was provided that the
city should issue to the railroad company, on or before Jan. 2,
1860, its bonds to the amount 'of $1,000,000, and that the city
should annually, after January 1, 1860, provide the -sum of
$95,000, to be applied "tothe payment of the bonds and coupons
thereto, attached as they became due, by a special tax to be
levied and collected by the city for that purpose, and that the
city should pass the by-la'ws and ordinances necessary to that
end. In pursuance of this contract the City of Mobile, on December 30, 1859, passed an ordinance which piovided that for
the year 1860, and annually-thereafter, there should be levied
and collected a special taxupon the assessed value of all the
taxable property in the City of Mobile sufficient to produce the
said sum of $95,000, and that the money so raised should be
pledged to the payment of said bonds and the interest coupons.

MOBILE v. WATSON.
Statement of Facts

Upon the faith of the act of the legislature referred to, and the
contract and ordinance, of the City of Mobile, bonds of the city
to the amount of a million dollars were issued to the railroad
company and by it assigned and sold.
The City of Mobile having, in the year 1878, made default
in the payment of the interest on its debt, which then exceeded
$2,500,000, the legislature, on February 11, 1879, passed "An
Act to vacate and annul the charter and dissolve the corporation of the City of Mobile, and to provide for the application
of the assets thereof in discharge of the debts of said corporation."
This act, by its first section, repealed the charter of the City
of Mobile, and declared that the corporation of the City of Mobile, known as "The Mayor, Aldermen and Common Council
of the City of Mobile," was thereby dissolved and abolished.
The act then provided for the appointment by the governor
of the State of three commissioners, whose.duty it should be to
take possession of all the property and assets of the City of
Mobile, to hold such property and assets upon the same trusts
and subject to the same liens and charges that the same wereunder when in the possession of the City of Mobile, and, under
the direction and pursuant to the orders of the Chancery
Court of the County of Mobile, collect the debts and taxes due
the city and sell its property and apply the taxes and debts
collected and the proceeds of the property sold to the payment
of the debts of the city, the floaiing debt to be first paid. The
act declared that the commissioners should have no power to
levy any tax or assessment whatever, but that it should be
their duty to treat with the holders of the funded debt of the
City of Mobile with a view to its adjustment and settlement,
and to report to the governor the result of their negotiations,
together with the draft of such act as might be proper to carry
into effect any scheme of adjustment that might result from
such negotiations; all of which it was made the duty of the
governor to submit to the legislature.
On the same day; to wit, February 11, 1879, the legislature
passed "An Act to incorporate the Port of Mobile, and provide
for the government thereof."

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

-

"This act incorporated, under the name of The Port of
Mobile, the inhabitants residing within certain specified
boundaries, which included no territory not embraced within
the limits prescribed by the charter of the City of Mobile.
The actprovided for the election of eight persons to be styled
the Mobile Police Board, for a tax collector, and otiler officers,
and made it the duty of the tax collector to collect all taxes
and license charges, and to perform and -discharge all such
other duties as might be required of him by the Police Board.
It empowered the Police Board to levy and collect, for each
year of its existence, upon the assessed value of all property
and subjects of State taxation within the Port of Mobile, a tax
of six-tenths of one per centum for the purpose of defraying
the expenses of carrying out the provisions of the act, and
made the assessment returned by the assessor of Mobile County
for the preceding year that on which the tax should be levied and collected. The act further provided that the Police
Board should have and exercise the powers thereby conferred
on them and no other, and repealed all conflicting acts and
parts of acts.
After the recovery by the plaintiff of his judgment against
the Port of Mobile, on June 29, 1880, the legislature of
Alabama, on December 8, 1880, passed an act which declared
that the Police Board should not levy any other tax than the
six-tenths of one -nill on the dollar authorized by the seventeenth section of the act of February 11, 1879, "to incorporate
the Port of Mobile and provide for the government thereof,"
and the license taxes authorized by § 30 of that act.
-The legislature, on December 8, 1880, also passed "An Act
to adopt and .carry into effect the plans for the adjustment and
settlement of the existing indebtedness of the late corporation,"
the city of Mobile, &c. This act was subsequently, on February
24, 1881, reenacted with material amendments.
The amended act provided for an issue of $2,500,000 of the
bonds of the City of Mobile, to be dated January 1, 1881, and
to be payable in twenty-five years, with interest at three per
cent. for five years, four per cent. for fifteen years, and five
per cent. for the remaining five years. These bonds were to

MOBILE v. WATSON.
Statement of Facts.

be used by exchanging them for the bonds of the City of
Mobile of the issue of May 1, 1875, but no available provision
was made in the act for the payment or satisfaction of the issue
of 'which the plaintiff's bonds formed a part. The act. further
required the Commissioners of the City of Mobile, immediately,
after its passage, to turn over to the Police Board of the Port
of Mobile "all the real and personal .property which was
formerly held and owned" by the city of Mobile "for public
use and governmental purposes," such as public buildings.,
markets, squares, parks, fire-engines, engine-houses, hose and
hose carriages, engineering instruments, and all other property
of like character and use, except only the wharves.
Such was the legislation o Alabama in reference to the City
of Mobile and the Port of Mobile when the plaintiff, filed his
petition for the writ of mandamus. The defendants to tihe
petition, namely, the Port of Mobile and the Police Board of
the Port of Mobile, filed a demurrer and also an answer to the
petition. In the latter they denied that the Port of Mobile
was the successor of the City of Mobile, bound for its debts
and the performance of its duties in reference to said judgment, and denied that the Port of Mobile or its Police Board.
had any power, or that it was their special duty to assess,
levy, or collect the special tax for the purpose of paying said
judgment.
The plaintiff demurred to this answer, and upon final hearing upon the demurrer to the petition and the demurrer to the,
answer, the Circuit Court ordered "that the respondents, the
Port of Mobile, the Mobile Police Board, Richard 3. Owen,
President, James W. Monette, Robert Adams, Sylvester J.
Russell, Daniel McNeill, Patrick J. Hanlon, John Henry,
Frank P. Andrews, and William Paton, Commissioners of the
Port of Mobile and members of said Police Board, do forthwith assess, levy, and cause to be collected a special tax upon
the property, real and personal, subject to tax by them, the
said Port of Mobile and Mobile Police Board, sufficient to pay.
and satisfy the said judgment of the relator against the Port
of Mobile for the debts of the said relator, with interest
thereon, and the same to cause to be collected in lawful money,

296

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

and as collected, in whole or in part, the same to pay over, or
cause. to be paid over, to said Henry Watson, or his lawful at
torney, to satisfy the said judgment, with interest thereon."
This judgment also was brought up for review by the wTit of
error sued out by the Port of Mobile.
annis Taylor and Xr'. J Little Smith for plaintiff in
.'X.
error. .
Baxtot,
ir.
Bragg was with them on the bi'ief.
There is Po contract between the State and thi public that
the charter of a city shall not be at all times subject to legislative, control. All persons who deal with such bodies7are conclusively presumed to act upon knowledge of the power.of the
legislature. There is no such thing as a vested right held
by any individual in the grant of legislative power, to him.
United States v. Pailroad Co., 17 Wall. 322; Tippecanoe
County v. Lucas, 93 U. S. 108; Peop e v. .3orris,13 Wend.
325; Philadelphia v. Fox., 64 Penn. St. 169; .Afontyelier v.
East iJiontpelier,29 Vt. 12. When a legislature confers upon
a municipal corporation a new charter with new grants of
power, but relating to the same territorial organization and
the same population, it merely makes a change in the name,
form of government, or powers originally conferred on the
*old corporation. But when the new grants of power.are given
to a new corporation by a new name, and with a, *different
territorial orpnization, they do not revive or reanimategan cld
corporation, but create a new and distinct corooration in the
place of the old one. Colchester v. Seablnr,3 Bu row, 1866; tte
K-ing v. Passhore,3 T. R. 199, 241 a Scarborough v. Buth , 3
Lev. 237; .ttddoek7's Case, T. Raymond, 435, 439. The 3e
of _ilner v. Pensacola,2 Woods, 632, 639, is in entire harmonr
with these English decisions. So is Broughton v. Pensacola,
93 U. S. 266. It is true the court speaks of the reorganization
of the city of Pensacola as producing a new organization of a
municipal'corporation which embraces substantiallythe same
corporators and. the samie territory. But in fact, the corporators And the territory were identically the same, both before
and after the reorganization, and the court itself put no stress
upon the use of the adverb "'substantially." What the court

MOBILE v. WATSON.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

meant was that the mere changds of form and powers, required by the Constitution of 1868 and the act of 1869, were
intended to be applied to all existing municipalities for the
sake of uniformity, and that the mere repeal of the charters
suspended the active operation of the corporations by means of
the old instrumentalities, until they complied with said requirements. So that they merely put on new clothes, and in that
gense were said to be substantially the same. old corporations,
dressed up anew, having the same old corporators in new
attire. This is the sense also in which this 'word "1substantially" is used in the case of the City of Olney v. Harvey, 50
Ill. 453, 455, in which the court, in declaring that the oiiginal
corporation (a town) was not destroyed, and that the city is
the same municipality as the town, uses this language: "It has
merely changed the machinery of its government and the title
of its officers, and is called a city instead of a town. But it is
the same municipality. It consists of. the same people." So in
WVaring v. Af!obile, 24 Ala. M01, the territory and inhabitants
or their successors were exactly the same after amendment of
the charter as before. -Mobile & Spring Hill Railroad-v.
Hennerly, 74 Ala. 566, did not turn on questions involved in
this case.
The constitutional prohibition against the passage of State
laws impairing the obligation of contracts extends, as to municipal corporations, only to the particular corporation which
owes the obligation, and should not be applied to a new corporatio4 which has contracted no debt, unless it is -in doubt
what the legislature intended. Courts cannot by construction
make the legislature say what it did not intend to say. _Milner
v. Pen8avola, 2 Woods, 639.
The proposition that any State legislature which declares
that it, then and there, absolutely destroys one of the State's
municipal corporations, which owes debts at the time, is inef, fectual to destroy the corporation and its agencies, unless it
retains or provides means and remedies by which the creditor
can collect his debt or enforce the fulfilment of the obligation
due to him through the courts, is erroneous. This court has
held the very reverse of this to be true. .Herriwetherv. Gar-

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

,'etf, 102 U. S. 472, 511, 518, 520; WTolJ v.
ew Orlean8, 103
U. S. 358, 3647. Even if it be true that when a legislature confers on a municipal corporation the power to create debts, that
this grant of power, alone, by implication, carries with it the
authority and duty on the part of that corporation to levy
taxes to pay the debt, if the exercise of that authority becomes
necessary, and the charter contains no provision in it when
the debt is contracted which negatives this implication; yet
the proposition does not tend to show that the Port of Mobile
is the City of Mobile, which contracted the debt. If it is the
sawL, corporation, then there is no need .of the implication,
becartse the facts agreed on show that the legislation which
authorized the City of Mobile to contract the debt expressly
granted power to levy taxes for its payment. So that in no
aspect of the case is this principle applicable.
In order to "ascertain whether a charter creates a new corporation or merely continues the existence of an old one, we
must look to its terms, and give them a construction consistent
with the legislative intent." Bellows v. Hlallowell & Augusta
Bank, 2 Mason, 31, 44; PWerman v. Hallowell & Augusta Bank,
14 Mass. 58, 62; Angell & Ames on Corporations, § 780; DilIon, Municipal Corporations, § 55; Grant on Corporations, 304,
305. A careful examination shows that any legitimate construction of the acts in question must declare that the corporation known as the City of Mobile was abolished and destroyed,
and that the Port of Mobile was neither a continuation nor a
revivor of that corporation, but was a new and independent
corporation not bound for the liaBilitieg of the City of Mobile.
Nor is mandamus the proper or adequate remedy. The Port
of Mobile has no power to levy the special tax ordered in this
case, or to assess any special tax. The tax machinery which it
possesses by law is inadequate, as it has no jurisdiction over the
territory of the fornier city which is excluded from its limits;
and. the bondholder 'in this case can never successfully prosecute his remedy in any forum to which tax-payers residing
outside'eo th limits of the Port of Mobile are not amenable.
Contribution frdm them is indispelisable.

MOBILE b. WATSON.
Opinion of -the Court.

.Mr. Gaylord B. Clark and Ar. Jame8 E. Webb for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE WooDs delivered the opinion of, the court.
After stating the facts in the language reported above, he continued:
It is not disputed that the bonds issued by the City of Mobile
upon which the plaintiff brought suit and recovered judgment
against the Port of Mobile, were the valid obligations of the
City of Mobile, which was bound by its contract to levy and
collect annually a tax of $95,000, to be applied to the payment
of the principal and interest of the issue of bonds of which
those held by the plaintiff formed part. It is apparent from
the statement of the case that the act of February 11, 1879,
"to vacate and annul the charter of the City of Mobile and
provide for the application of the assets thereof in discharge
of the debts of said corporation," and the act of the same date,
"to incorporate the Port of Mobile and provide for the government thereof," and the several acts subsequent thereto on the
same general subject, make no adequate provision for the payment of the bonds held by the plaintiff, and other bonds of the
same issue, of which, according to the answer of the Port of
Mobile to the petition for the writ of mandamus, there still
remain, unsatisfied, bonds to the amount of $323,914. 'The
effect of this legislation is to take from the officers of the City
of Mobile all power to lay a tax for their payment, and to leave
no means for their satisfaction.. The assets of the City of Mobile turned over to the commissioners appointed by authority
of the act to vacate its charter being largely reduced for the
general creditor by prior liens and exemptions from levy by
execution, and their proceeds being first, required to be applied
to the floating debt of the city, have afforded no satisfaction
to the plaintiff, and it is not pretended that payment could or
would be made to him out of the proceeds of such assets. If,
therefore, the plaintiff cannot exact payment from the Fort of
Mobile, the effect of the legislation referred to is to deprive
him of all remedy upon'he bonds issued by the City of Mobile
and the contract providing for their payment, valid when

OCTOBER TERM, 1885
,Opinion of the Court.

made, and Valid still. It is, therefore, a vital question in the
case whether the Port of Mobile is the legal successor of the
City of Mobile, and bound for its debts. The "agreement of
facts" made in the suit upon the bonds is conceded to be a true
statement of the facts therein recited. From this paper and
,other admissions made in the answer of the Port of Mobile to
.the rule to show cause, and the legislation of the State of Alab~ma made a part of the record, it appears that on the day
when the act was passed vacating and annulling the charter,
and dissolving the corporation of the City of Mobile, another
act was passed to incorporate the Port of Mobile; that all the
territory embraced within the limits of the Port of Mobile was
formed of part of the territory, and included all the thickly settled and closely built portion of the City of Mobile; that out
of more than $16,000,000 of taxable property of the City of
Mobile, all but $900,000 was included within the limits of the
Port of Mobile; and that fourteenth-fifteenths of the inhabitants of the ..ity of Mobile were inhabitants of the Port of Mobile. Whil e, therefore, the area pf territory of the Port of
Mobile was little more than half-that of the City of Mobile, it
is apparent that the former included substantially the same
taxable property, and the same body of people, as the City bf
Mobile. It further appears that all the property, except its
wharves, of the City of Mobile, used by it for public anid governmental parposes, was by the authority of.jhe act of Febra"
ary 24, ISSI, tutned over and delivered-to the Port of Mobile
for its use without coinpensatior to be paid therefor.
We Tare of ppinion upon this -stat of the statutes and facts,
that The Port of Mobile is the. legal successor of the City of
Mobile, and liable for its debts. The two corporations were
composed of substantially-the same community, included within
their limits substantially the same taxable property, and were
organized for the same general purposes.
Where the legislature of a State has given a local community,
living within desfnated bouindaries, a municipal organizat-6n,
and by'a-subsequent ac or series of acts repeals its cbarter
and dissolves the cbrpofation, and incorporates substantially
the same pe6ple As a municipal body under a uaw name for

MOBILE v. WATSON.
Opinion of the Court.

the same general purp6se, and the great mass of the taxable
property of the old corporation is included within the limits of
the new, and the property of the old corporation used for
public purposes is transferred without consideration to the new
corporation for the same public uses, the latter, notwithstanding a great reduction of its corporate limits, is the successor in
law of the former, and liable for its debts; and if any part of
the creditors of the old corporation are left without provision
for the payment of their claims, they can enforce satisfaction
out of the new. In illustration and support of this proposition,
the following cases are in point:
In Girard v. Philadelpia,7 Wall. 1, it was held by this
court that the annexation to the city of Philadelphia, having
a territory of only two square miles, of twenty-eight other
municipalities with all their inhabitants, comprising districts,
boroughs, and townships of various territorial extent, and the
changing of its name, did not destroy its identity or impair its
right to hold property devised to it.
So in Broughton v. Penacola,93 U. S. 266, 270, it was said
by Mr. Justice Field, in delivering judgment, that when "a
new form is given to an old corporation, or such a corporation
is reorganized under a new charter, taking in its new organization the place of the old one, embracing substantially the same
corporators and the same territory, it will be presumed that
-the legislature intended a continued existence of the same corporation, although different powers are possessed under the
new charter and different officers administer its affairs, and in
the absence of express provision for their payment otherwise,
it will also be presumed in such case that the legislature intended that the liabilities as well as the rights of property of
of the corporation in its old form should accompany the corporation in its reorganization."
In O'Connor v. XemphiB, 6 Lea, 730, the Supreme Court of
Tennessee went so far as to say that-" Neither the repeal of
the charter of a municipal corporation, nor a change of its
name, nor an increase or diminution of its territory or population, nor a change in its mode of gov(crnment, nor all of these
combined, will destroy the identity, continuity, or succession

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

of the co'rporation if the people and territory reincorporated constitute an integral part of the corporation abolished
The corporators and the territory are the essential constituents of the corporation, and rights and liabilities naturally
a dhere to them."
In Mount Pleasantv. BeckwitA, 100 U. S. 514, a municipal
corporation had been dissolved and its territory divided between and annexed to three adjacent corporations. Upon this
state of facts the court held that, unless the legislature otherwise provided, the corporations to which the territory and the
inhabitants of the divided corporation had been transferred,
were severally liable for their proportionate share of its debts,
and were vested with its power to raise revenue wherewith to
pay them by levying taxes upon the property transferred and
the persons residing therein. See also Cdlcester v. Seaber, 3
Burrow, 1866; COddon v. Eatwic, 1 Salk. 192; People v.
-fMorr.is, 13 Wend. 325; Iew Orleans ail.road Co. v. City of
.New Orleans, 26 La. Ann. 478.
In the case of Amy v. Selma, recently decided, by the Supreme Court of Alabama, and not yet reported, a question
almost identical with the one now in hand was considered.
The legislature of Alabama had passed an act, approved December 11, 1882, entitled "An Act to vacate and annul the
charter and dissolve the corporation of the City of Selma, and
to provide for the application of the assets thereof to the payment of the debts thereof." That act repealed the charter of
the City of Selma and all acts amendatory thereof, and de,clared the corporation dissolved, and all offices held under any
of 'said acts, 6xcept for the purposes and during the period provided by the repealing act, abolished, and that all powers of
taxation given to the City of Selma by acts of the legislature
were resumed by and lodged in the legislature. It transferred
to the custody and control of the State of Alabama all property, real and personal, held and used by the corporation for
governmental or other public purposes, and declared that the
inhabitants and territory within the territorial limits and jurisdiction of said corporation were resolved into the body of the
State. The residue of the act was substantially similar to the

MOBILE v. WATSON.
Opinion of the Court.

act of February 11, 1879, "to vacate and annul the charter and
dissolve the corporation of the City of Mobile," etc.
This was followed by an act approved February 17, 1883,
"to incorporate the inhabitants and territory formerly e.mbraced
within the corporate limits of the municipal corporation, since
dissolved, styled the City of Selma, and to establish a local
government therefor."
This act, after reciting the dissolution of the City of Selma and
the repeal of its charter, among many other provisions, formed
the inhabitants residing within the territory formerly covered
by the City of Selma into a municipal corporation under the
name and style of "Selma;" provided for officers of the municipality and prescribed their duties; authorized them to levy
taxes, but declared that no funds derived by the corporation
thereby created from taxes or any .other source should be used
for the payment of any of the debts of the City of Selma, and
transferred and made over .to Selna the property -which had
been held and used by the City of Selma, to be held and used.
for the same uses and trusts to which it had been devoted while
in the possession of the City of Selma.
This act was followed by an act approved February 19, 1883,
to carry into effect any plan or scheme for the compromise, adjustment, and settlement of the existing indebtedness of the
late corporation, known as the City of Selma, which might be
be agreed upon between the creditors of the said City of Selma
and commissioners appointed under and by virtue of the act
of December 11, 1882. With this series of acts in
force the Supreme Court of Alabama, in the, case mentioned,
was called on t. construe the act "to vacate and annul the
charter and dissolve the corporation of the City of Selma, and
to provide for the application of the assets thereof to the payrment of the debts thereof." It held that this act was without
operation upon the debts and liabilities of the City of Selma
lawfully contracted; that the act of February 19, 1883, to incorporate the inhabitants and territory formerly embraced
%iithinthe limits of the City of Selma was a reorganization,
under the corporate name- of Selma, of the same corporators,
and embraced substantially the same territory as the City of

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

Selma; that the corporation called Selma was the successor of
the City of Selma, and bound for the payment of its debts;
and that a suit at law, founded on a judgment against the City
of Selma., was maintainable against its successor, Selma.
This construction-of these statutes of the State of Alabama
by its highest court being in accord with our own views, and in
harmony with former decisions- of this court on the same general subject, is decisive of the question in hand, unless there is
some material difference between the legislation concerning the
City of Selma and .that concerning the City of Mobile. The
only difference that can be supposed to have any bearing upon
the question under discussion is, that the act incorporating
Sehna embraced the same territory as that covered by the City
of Selma, whereas the Port of Mobile covered little more than
half the territory embraced.by the City of Mobile. We think
this difference between the two cases is an immaterial one. The
Supreme Court of Alabama, in the case of the Xobile and S2ping
Hill Railroad Co. v. E-enneriy, 74 Ala. 566, assumed that the
City of Mobile and the Port of Mobile had substantially the
-same corporators and the same boundaries. And we are of
opinion that the exclusion from the limits of the Port of Mobile of the sparsely, settled suburbs of the City of Mobile, a
territory of little value, as fairly appears by the record, and
consisting, as stated by the counsel for plaintiff, without contradiction, largely of fields, swamps and land covered with
water, will not serve to distinguish this case from the case of
Amy v. Selma. We repeat, therefore, that in our judgment
the Port of Mobile is the legal successor of the City of Mobile,
and bound for its debts.
It follows from this proposition that the remedies necessary
to the collection of his debt, which the law gave the creditor
of the City of Mobile, remain in force against the Port of
Mobile. The laws which establish local municipal corporations
cannot be altered or repealed so as to invade the constitutional
rights of creditors. So far as such corporations are invested
with subordinate legislative powers for local purposes, they are
the mere instrumentalities of the States, for the convenient
administration of their affairs, and are subject to legislative

"MOBILE v. WATSON.

3o,

Opinion of the Court.

control. But when empowered to take stock in or otherwise
aid a railroad company, and they issue their bonds in payment
of the stock taken, or to carry out any other authorized contract in aid of the railroad company, they are to that extent
to be deemed private corporations, and their obligations are
secured by all the guarantees which protect the engagements
of private individuals. Broughton v. Pensacola,93 U. S. 266;
3fount Pleasantv. Becawith, 100 U. S. 514.
Therefore the remedies for the enforcement of such obligations assumed by a municipal corporation, which existed when
the contract was made, must be left unimpaired by the legislature, or, if they are changed, a substatitial equivalent must
be provided. Where the resource for the payment of the
bonds of a municipal corporation is the power of taxation existing when the bonds were issued, any law which withdraws or
limits the taxing power and leaves no adequate means for the
payment of the bonds is forbidden by the Constitution of the
United States, and is null and void. Von' Hofman v. Quincy,
4 Wall. 535; Edward.&v. KEearzey, 96 U. S. 595; Balls County
Court v. United States, 105 U. S. 733; Louisiana v. Pillsbu7ry,
105 U. S. 278 ; Louisiana v. -]ayorof New Orleans,109 U. S.
285. These propositions receive strong support from the decisions of the ,Supreme Court of Alabama.
Commissioners of
Zinestone County v. Rather, 48 Ala. 433 ; Edwardsv. WilliamnSolt, 70 Ala. 145; Slaughter v. lbobile County, 73 Ala.,134.
It follows that the contract by which, under authority of
the legislature, the City of Mobile agreed to levy a special tax
for the payment of the principal and interest of the class of
bonds to which those held by the plaintiff belong is still in
force, and its obligation rests upon its legal successor, the Port
of Mobile.
All laws passed since the making of the contract, whose
purpose or effect is to take from the City of Mobile, or its successor, the power to levy the tax and pay the bonds, are invalid and ineffectual, and will be disregarded.
Mr. Justice
Field, when delivering the judgment of this court in Troyff v.
Nrew Orleans, 103 U. S. 358, 368, said: "The court§, therefore, treating as invalid and void the legislation abrogating or
VOL. CXVI- -20

UCTOI3

TERM, 1885.

Opinion of the Court.

restricting the power of taxation delegated to the municipality,
upon the faith of which contracts were made with her and
upon the continuance of which alone they can be enforced, can
proceed, and by mandamus compel, at the instance of the parties interested, the exercise of that power, as if no such legislation had ever been attempted." And so in Ralls County
Court v. United Statee, 105 U. S. 733, 138, it was said by the
Chief Justice, speaking for the court, that "all laws of the
State which have been passed since the bonds in question were
issued, purporting to take away from the county courts the
power to levy taxes necessary to meet the payments, are invalid, and, under the well settled rule of decision in this court,
the Circuit Court had authority, by mandamus, to require the
County Court to do all the law, when the bonds were issued,
required it to do to raise the means to pay the judgment, or
something substantially equivalent."
The Port of Mobile has the machinery and officers requisite
for the assessment of property and for the levy and collection
of taxes to carry on the city government. There is no reason
why the taxes necessary to pay the judgment of the plaintiff
cannot be levied and collected by the same officers. There is
no obstacle to the full and complete performance by the Port
of Mobile and the Mobile Police Board of the duties required
by the peremptory writ of mandamus- issued by the Circuit
Court.
It follows from the views we have expressed that the judgment of the Circuit Court in favor of the plaintiff for"$7308.80
and costs against the Port of Mobile, and the judgment directing the peremptory writ of mandamus to be issued against the
Port of Mobile and the Mobile Police Board for the satisfaction of such judgment, are both warranted by law.
Judgments aJfirmed.

