PRESTON v. MANARD.
Statement of Facts.

PRESTON v. MANARD & Another:
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
Submitted January 6, 1886.-Decided March 1, 1886.

. hose-reel, mounted upon a wheeled carriage, supporting a fountain standard, and provided with a foot or brace to sustain it in an upright position,
and with a nozzle-holder, being in common use ; a patent for a combna,
tion of these elements with "a reel of large diameter to allow, the water to
flow through the hose when partially wound thereon" is void for want of
invention.

This was a bill in equity for the infringement of letters
patent granted October 10, 1876, and reissued Fdbruary 22,
1882, for an improved fountain hose-carriage.
The specification of the original patent, after describing the
apparatus as consisting of a standard mounted upon an axle,
to which are applied two wheels and a foot so contrived that,
when the device rests upon the tripod formed by the wheels
and the foot, the standard will assume an upright position to
serve as a suitable fountain-standard; and the standard, for
this purpose, having at its upper end a nozzle-holding contrivance, and at a suitable height from the ground a c6llar turning
loosely upon it, to which is affixed the spindle of the hosereel; a set screw through one of the hubs of the reel, entering
a groove in the spindle, and serving to hold the reel from slipping off, and also, by applying more or less friction, as a means
of locking the reel from turning, or as a brake to prevert its
turning too freely; on the face of the outer four arms of the
reel, clasps which serve as a means not only for holding the
nozzle, when desired, but also for holding the butt of the hose
when it is all reeled in, or an intermediate part when the butt
is connected with the hydrant; two handles near the top'of
the standard to afford a grasp in wheeling the apparatus about
from place to place, and another handle projecting to the rear
from the collar, to serve as a hold for the hand in Shifting
about and adjusting; proceeded as follows:
"In operation, the butt of the hose may be attached to the

•662]

OCTOBER TERM, is85.
Statement, of Facts.

hydrant, and the body of the hose being upon the reel, the
standard and reel may he wheeled along to the place desired,
paying out hose as it goes. More or less hose may be thus
*paid out, and the nozzle being poised to its work, it may remain
-in operation for a time in a fixed position or at rest; or the
Apparatus may be moved about from place to place and the
-hose taken up or -paid out to suit, while the water is playing
as well as when shut off. The reel being supported at a considerable height from the ground renders it possible to emplo4
a reel, of a sufficient diameter so that the water will freely flow
through the portion of the hose wound thereon. It will be
seen, therefore, that the apparatus may be used as a lawn
fQuntain or sprinkler, and moved from place to place without
touching the hose with the hands, thus avoiding the dirt and
wet; and also that the hose may be taken up or paid out from
the standard itself as it is moved about, which is a better way
than having the standard at one place and the reel at another,
or than having no reel, because the work may be all attended
to at the standard, and no more hose left on the ground than
is absolutely necessary. With a view to this method of using
the apparatus, a peculiar feature of the reel consists in the fact
*that the hose is wound upon four separate points or bars.
This, in connection with the large diameter of the reel, facilitates the discharge of the water. To make this clear it is
necessary to understand that each bar is liable to make a dent
upon the inner side of the hose. This dent the water passing
through will straighten out; but the effort to straighten the
dent will cause a tendency of the hose to rise at this point,
and in the part of the hose between the bars to recurve or
bend toward the centre of the reel. Now, if a solid drum is
employed, er a reel composed of a large number of bars, this
rising and recurving tendency is resisted by the intermediate
points or bars, and the dent or flattening or compression resists
the water and will not straighten out. By sufficiently loosening the set-screw, so that it will clear the'groove in the spindjle, the reel may be taken entirely off from the standard, and
the latter in such -case may be used as a plain reelless fountainstandard."

PRESTON v. MANARD.
Opinion of the Court.

The first claim in the original patent was as follows:
"1. The hose-reel, mounted upon a wheeled carriage, which
is provided with a foot or brace, by means of which it may be
sustained in an upright vertical position, whereby the device
becomes capable of use, both as a hose-carriage and-as a fountain-standard, substantially as specified."
. A former suit, brought March 29, 1880, by the plaintiff against'
the defendants, under the original patent, was -heard upon
pleadings and proofs, and dismissed by the court on January
6, 1882, for want of novelty. On January 21, 1882, the plain-'
tiff applied to the Patent Office for a reissue, which was granted
on February 22, 1882, with a specification exactly like that, in
'the original patent, but with different claims, the first and only
material one of which was in these words:
"1. The combined hose-carriage and fountain-standard, consisting in the combination of the following elements, v'iz. : A
wheeled carriage provided with a foot or brace, by means of
which it may be sustained in an upright vertical position, a'
nozzle-holding device, and a reel of large diameter to allow the
water to flow through the hose when partially wound thereon,
substantially as specified."
The present bill was filed April 13, 1882. By the evidence
taken in the cause, it appeared that a fountain-standard and
hose-reel, mounted upon a wheeled carriage, provided with a
foot or brace to sustain it in an upright position, and with .a
nozzle-holder, were known and used in combination with each
other before the plaintiff's alleged invention. This bill also
was dismissed, and the plaintiff appealed to this court.
Mr. John IF. .3undayfor appellant.
Mr. J. F. Farn&worth and Xr. C. ff. Brazed for appellees.
MR.

JusTicE -GRAY delivered the opinion of the court. After

stating the facts as above reported, he continued:
It is unnecessary to consider the difference between the claim
in the reissue and the claim in the original patent, because,
assuming the reissue not to be invalidated thereby, yet it sets
forth no patentable invention.

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

The hose-reel, the standard, the brace,, the nozzle-holder, and
their use in combination, being all pld, the description of the
hose-reel, in the specification and claim, as "a reel of large diametdr to allow the water to pass through the hose when partially wound thereon," is not sufficient to sustain the patent.
The requisite diameter of the reel, and its proportion to the
size of the hose, are not defined in the specification, but are left to
be 'ascertained by experiment, or from general knowledge. If the
patentee had discovered anything new in the size or proportions
of the reel, requisite to allow the water to flow through the
'hose, he shofild have described it with such precision as to
enable others to construct the apparatus. The fact that water
will flow through a hose wound on a reel, if the diameter of
the reel is large enough, and the curves or angles are not too
abrupt, is a matter of common knowledge, which no one can
appropriate to his own use, to the exclusion of the public. In
any view of the case, the specification describes nothing that'
,the patentee is entitled to claim, but only what every one has
a right to use without his assistance. Guddet v. Brooklyn,
105 U. S. 550; Flood,v. .ickl, 2 Bissell, 169; ,S.
C., 4 Fisher
Pat. Cas. 156; The Iing v. Wheeler, 2 B. & Ald. 345, 354;
A acnamar v. Hulee, Car. & M. 471, 477; KYay v. .Narghall,
7 Scott,' 548; S. C., 5 Bing. N. C. 492; 1 Beavan, 535; 8 Cl. &
Fin. 2945; West I. L. 682; 2 Webster Pat. Gas. 34, 68, 75,
77, 82, 84.
T6 sustain this patent would be to deprive the public of the
right to arrange and use a well known apparatus in the only
way in which its purpose can be beneficially accomplished.
.Decree afflrmed.

