LAUGHtIN v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
Syllabus.

"We have no doubt that when Congress, by law, vests the
appointment of inferior officers in the heads of Departments it
may limit and restrict the power of removal as it deems best f6r
the public interest. The constitutional authority in Congress to
thus vest the appointment implies authority to limit, restrict,
and regulate the removal by such laws as Congress may enact
in relation to the officers so appointed.
"The head of a Department has no constitutional prerogative of appointment to offices independently of the legislation
of Congress, and by such legislation he must be governed, not
only in making appointments but in all that is incident thereto.
"It follows that as the claimant was not found deficient at
any examination, and was, not dismissed for misconduct under
the provisions of Revised Statutes, section 1525, nor upon and
in pursuance of the sentence of a court-martial to that effect or
in commutation thereof, according to Revised Statutes, section
1229, he is still in office and is entitled to the pay attached to
the same."
We adopt these views, and affirm the judgment of the Court
of Claims.
Affirmed.

LAUGHLINv. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
A-PPEA.L FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
Argued January 14, 1886.-Decided January 25, 1886.

A, having done work on the streets of Washington under a contract with the
board of public works, rteeived certificates that his accounts were audited
and allowed for specified amounts; on pledge of which he borrowed money
of B, giving his note therefor shortly before the abolition of the board by
Congress, and thb creation of the board of audit. A requested the treasurer
of the board of public works- in writing, not to pay these certificates, but
assigned no reason for the request. Afterwards 0 presented them to the
board of audit, by whom they were allowed, and C received district bonds
for them' under fi' raw. Neither. B n3r C has accounted to A for the
certificats. nor returned his note. A sued the District for the amount 'due
on the certificates. Held, That he had no cause of action.

OCTOBER TEM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

'This was a suit in the Court of Claims against the District
of Columbia. The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
X7f'. Enoch Totten for appellant.
X1'. Solicitor-GeneraZfor appellee.
MP.. CHIEF-JUSTIcE WAITE delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit brought July 28, 1880, under the act of June
16, 1880, oh. 243, 21 Stat. 284, by Matthew J. Laughlin against
the District of Columbia to recover an amount claimed to be
due upon five certificates of the auditor of the board of public
works. The facts are these:
Laughlin contracted with the board of public works to do
certain work and furnish certain materials in gTading the streets
in Washington. The work was done and the board, according
to its usage with contractors, issued to the attorney in fact of
Laughlin certificates of accounts allowed by its auditor, as
follows:
"No. 4763.

Office of Auditor of Board of Public Works,
Washington, D. C., Dec. 24th, 1373.
"I hereby certify that I have this day audited and allowed
the account of Al. J. Laughlin, per J. F. NXurray, att'y, for work,
as per schedule, amounting to fifteen hundred dollars.
"$1500.
J. C. LYx, Auditor."
'Three other certificates for $6000, $5000, and $2000 respectively, numbered 4764, 4766, and 4767, were issued to the
same person and in the same form, all having the same date.
Another certificate for $597 was also issued, but as the right to
recover on that was abandoned at the'argument it need not be
specially referred to.
, After the certificates were issued Laughlin demanded payment from the treasurer of the board of public works, which
was refused for want of funds. He then borrowed mone.Y on
them from Rudolph Blumenburg, at the rate of thirty-three
cents on the dollar of their face value, giving his notes for the

LAUGHLIN v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
Opinion of the Court.

amount borrowed, and delivering the certificates indorsed by
him in blank as collateral. Certificates Nos. 4764, 4766, *And,
4767 were hypothecated January- 20, 1874, and No. 4763, February 14, 1874.
On or about the 5th of June, 1874, a written document was
delivered to James A. Magruder, treasurer of the board of
public works, which he filed with the papers of the board,where it has ever since remained, and of which the following
is a copy.:
"Washington, D. C., June 5th, 1871.
"Col. James A. Magruder, treasurer B. P. W.
"Sir: I do most respectfully ask of you not to pay the following auditor's certificates, dated December, 1873, issued to
'M. J. Laugblin, per 1. F. Murray, attorney,' viz : No. 4763, for
$1500; No. 4764, for $6000 , No. 4766, for $5000; No. 4767,
for $2000.
"Also a certificate issued in the name of M. J. Laughlin, No.
4426, for $5.97.
Very respectfully,
J. F. MuRA.y."

Previous to that date Laughlin bad orally notified Magruder
not to pay the certificates, but at what exact time does not appear. He did not, however, bring any suit to enjoin the pa.rment or conversion of the certificates, or to establish his interest
in or title to them.
On the 20th of June, 1874, Congress passed "An-act for the
government of the District of 'Columbia and for other purposes," ch. 337, 18 Stat. 116, by which "all provisions of lav ,
providing for an executive, for a secretary for the District, for
a legislative assembly, for a board of public works, and for a
delegate in Congress in the District of Columbia," Were repealed, and a commission created to exercise "all the power
and authority now lawfully vested in the governor or board of
public works of said District," except as thereinafter limited.
This commission was authorized to "take possession and supervision of all the offices, books, papers, records, moneys, credits,
securities, assets, and accounts belonging or appertaining to

OCTOBER TER!; 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

the business or interests of the government of the District of
Columbia and the board of public works, and exercise the
power and authority" conferred by the act. By § 6 the First
Comptroller of the Treasury and the Second Comptroller
of the Treasury of the United States were constituted a
board of audit "to examine and audit for settlement," among
other things, "the debt purporting to be evidenced and
ascertained by certificates of the auditor of the board of
public works." This board was required to "issue to each
claimant a certificate, signed by each of said board and countersigned by the comptroller of the District, stating the amount,
found to be due to each and on what account." Power was
given the board to "subpcena witnesses, administer oaths, and
examine witnesses under oath," and it was allowed "full access
to all of the records, books, papers, and vouchers of every kind
whatsoever of the board of public works;" "and to the end
that said books and accounts may be thoroughly examined,
and the indebtedness of the District and of the board of public
works, and the state of the books and accounts of the officers
aforesaid, may be accurately ascertained," the board was
authorized to "employ one or more skilful and impartial accountants

.

.

.

and such other assistants as they may

deem necessary to make examination of said books, vouchers,
and papers, and discharge their duties,

.

.

.

and shall pro-

cure inspection of such bank books and papers as may be
ilecessary." The board was also to give notice for the presentation of claims, and no claim could "be audited or allowed
unless presented within ninety days tfter'the first publication
of such notice." By § 7 the sinking-fund commissioners were
required to exchange the three-sixty-five bonds of the District
at par for like sums of any debt evidenced 1y certificates of
the board of audit.
. On the 16th of July, 1874, N. A. Cowdrey presented the
certificates now in dispute to this board of audit for allowance
and settlement. Before their presentation, and after their de'livery by Laughlin to Blumenburg, there had been printed
over the indorsement in blank which vas on them when delivered the following:

LAUGHLIN v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIk.
Opinion of the Court.

"For value received, the within debt is assigned and transferred to N. A. Cowdrey, who is authorized to collect the same
for his own use." This was done without the knowledge of
Laughlin. Certificates of allowance were issued to Cowdrey
in due form by the board of audit, and these were taken up by
an exchange of bonds for them by the sinking-fund commissioners. Neither Blumenburg nor any assignee of his has accounted to Laughlin for the proceeds of the certificates, nor
returned the notes for which they were transferred as security.
Upon these facts the Court of Claims gave judgment
against Laughlin, and to reverse that judgment this appeal
was taken.
It has been settled in this court, that if the owner of certificates of the auditor of the board of public works, like those
now in question, places them in the hands of a third person,
indorsed in blank, so as to give him apparent authority for their
collection, payment by the District to the person so invested
with apparent authority, without notice of a want of actual
authority, will discharge the debt. Cowdrey v. ]Tanderburg,
101 U. S. 572; Locmey v. District of Columbia, 113 U. S. 258.
The Court of Claims so held in Adams v. Distridc of Columbia,
17 C.Cl. 351, decided at the December Term, 1881, which was
but a little more than a year after the act giving that court
jurisdiction in this class of cases was passed.
Such being the law, the only question we have now to consider is, whether the letter of June 5, 1874, addressed by the
attorney of Laughlin to the treasurer of the board of public
works and placed on file with the papers of the board, makes
the District answerable to Laughlin fcr the amount due on the
certificates notwithstanding the payment to Cowdrey upon
the allowance by the board of audit. The Court of Claims
was of opinion that it did not, and in this we concur
The board of audit was in no sense the board of public
works or its successor. It was a department of the District
government established "to examine and audit for settlement"
certain classes of the debt of the District. It was invested for
this purpose with qua8i judicial powers. The commission,
which was the general governing body of the District, had no

OCTOBER TERM, 1s85.
Opinion of the Court.

control over it. :No claim against the District of either of the
classes this board was required to audit could be paid except
upon a certificate of allowance signed by each of the members of the board and countersigned by the comptroller of the
District. The board could not begin its work until public notice had been given the creditors of the District to appear
and present their claims, and it could act only for a limited
period. This notice was to all the world and required all who
bad claims to appear or suffer the consequences if they kept
away. Laughlin was bound to take notice of the statute creating the board and of the duties of the board in respect to
claims 'like his. He knew that his certificates were outstanding
in the hands of some one invested by him with an apparent
title as owner, or at least with an apparent authority to collect
them. •He knew or ought to have known that the holders of
the certificates might present them and demand their allowance.
The law charges him also with notice of the power of the board
to examine witnesses and consider the rights of contesting parties. It is true he may have had the right to suppose that his
letter to the treasurer of the board of public works would be
brought to the attention of the board, but that letter was nothing more than a request to the treasurer not to pay. No reason was assigned for the request, and no statement was made
of-the facts connected with the title or authority of the person
who might present them for payment. If the certificates had
been presented to the treasurer after the letter was delivered to
him, it would have been his duty to notify Blumenburg before
payment, so that the proper steps might be taken to contest the
right of the holder to the money. But when the office of treasurer of the board of public works was abolished and the board of
audit created, an entirely new condition of things arose. The
statute authorizing the board gave notice to Laughlin that he
must himself appear before that tribunal to assert his rights as
against the holder of his certificates, or take some other steps
to prevent their payment, and, if he did not, that his claim
against the District might be lost. The board, even if his letter had been brought to its attention, would not have been compelled to give him any other notice to appear than that which"

DUNPHY v. RYAN.
Statement of Facts.

he already had. As he failed to appear at all, there was noth-,
ing for the board to do but to act upon the evidence which was
before it, and decide accordingly. In Cowdrey v. Vandeburg
the suit was by Vandeburg, the owner of a certificate like
those now in question, against Blumenburg and Cowdrey, to
compel surrender of the certificate to him, upon allegations as
to their title very similar to those which are here made against
them. Upon proof of the charge against Blumenburg and a
failure by Cowdrey to show that he paid value for the certificate, the decree sought was granted. So here, if Laughlin had
appeared before the board and made his showing, it is possible
he might have got the pay instead of Cowdrey, but he failed
to do so, and it is now too late for him to assert his rights against
the District.
The judgment of the Court of Claims is
Affirmed.

DUNPHY v. 'RYAN.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF MONTANA.'
Argued January 15, 1886.-Decided January 25, 1886.

An agreement, on the part of A to acquire title in his own name to a tract of
land upon the best terms possible, and when acquired to convey to B an
undivftled part thereof, and on the part of B to pay to A his proportionae
part of the purchase money and expenses incurred in obtaining title, is a
contract for the sale of lands within the Statute of Frauds : and the contract being verbal and not in writing as required b7 the Statute, A, after
performing his part of the agreement, cannot recovex from B his share of
the price and expenses in an action at law founded upon and seeking to
enforce the contract; nor in equity, under a statute which prescribes the
same forms at law and in equity, when the pleadings show no allegation to
lay a foundation for equitable relief.

Under the statute law of the Territory of Montana there is
no distinction between legal and equitable remedies, and there
is "but one form of action for the enforcement or protection
of private rights and the redress or prevention of private

