I OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Syllabus.

other company. In other words, the complainant has a contract with the State that protects it against such discrimination
in the matter of rates. If this were not so, it could not well
be the duty of the railroad commission, as the court declares,
to see that the discrimination provided against by the company's charter did not exist.
Adhering to the general views expressed by me in the preceding cases, I dissent from the opinion and judgment in this
case.
-MR.
JusIEPc

FIELD concurs in this dissent.

MR. JUSTICE BLATOHFORD did not sit in this case or take any

part in its decision.

ANDERSON v. SANTA ANNA.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF

THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
Argued November25, 1885.-Decided Jannary 4, 1886.

When, at the time of creating and issuing a negotiable evidence of indebtedness of a municipal corporation in a State, the highest court of a State has
construed the law under which it purports to be issued, rights accruing
under that construction will not be affected merely by subsequent decisions
of the same court, varying or departing from it.
When negotiable evidences of indebtedness of a municipal corporation in a
State are created and issued under laws which have not, at the time of
issue, been construed by the highest court of the State, its subsequent construction of them is not conclusive on Federal courts, although they will
lean to an agreement of views with the State court.

This was a suit'at law to recover on municipal bonds issued
in payment of a subscription to railroad stock. The facts
which make the case are stated in the opinion of the court.
.A1r'. Lavwrence fXaaxwell, d.., for plaintiff in error. !2lr.Wi'lZam X. Rameey and /A1. George IF.Gere also filed a brief
for same.

ANDERSON v. SANTA ANNA.
Opinion of the Court.

No appearance for defendant in error.
M . JUSTICE IIARuAx delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an action to recover from the township of Santa
Anna, established under the general township organization
laws of Illinois, the amount of certain negotiable bonds, with
interest coupons attached, signed by its supervisor and clerk,
and purporting to have been issued by it, on the 1st day of
October, 1867, "under and by virtue of a law of the State of
Illinois, entitled' An act to amend the articles of association of
the Danville, Urbana, Bloomington and Pekin Railroad Company, and to extend the powers of and confer a charter upon
the same,' approved February 28, 1867, and in accordance with
the vote of the electors of said township, at the special election
held July 21, 1866, in accordance with said act." Each bond,
also, recites that the faith of the township is "pledged for the
payment of said principal sum and interest."
The Circuit Court sustained a demurrer to the declaration
and amended declaration, and-gave judgment for the township.
The act of February 28, 1867, empowered the railroad company to locate and construct a railroad from Pekin, in Tazewell
County, through, or as near to as practicable, certain named
towns, to the eastern boundary of the State of Illinois. For
the purpose of aiding in its construction, authority was given
to incorporated towns or townships in counties acting under
the township organization law, along the route of the road, to
subscribe to the capital stock of the company in any sum not
exceeding $250,000.
By the 13th section of the act it is provided:
"§ 13. No such subscription shall be made until the question
has been submitted to the legal voters of such incorporation,
town, or township in which the subscription is proposed to be
made; -and the clerk of each of said towns or townships is
hereby required, upon the presentation of a petition signed by
at least ten citizens, who are legal voters and tax-payers of such
town or township for which he is clerk, and in which petition
the amount proposed to be subscribed shall be stated, to post
ur. notices in at least three public places in each town or town-

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

ship; which notice shall be posted not less than thirty days
before the clay of holding such election, notifying the legal
voters of such town or township to meet at the usual place of
holding elections in. such town or township, or some other convenient'place named in such notice, for the purpose of voting
for or against such subscription: Provided, That where
elections may have already been held, and the majority of the
legal voters of any township or incorporated town were in
favor of a subscription to said railroad, then and in that case
no other election need be had, and the amount so voted for
shall be subscribed as in this act provided. And such elections
are hereby declared- to be legal and valid, as though this act
had been in force at the time thereof and all the provisions
hereof had been complied with."
The pleadings allege that on the 21st of July, 1866, the
township of Santa Anna, through which the road passed, "held
a special election, upon the question of subscribing the sum of
$50,000 to the capital stock of said Danville, Urbana, Bloomington and Pekin Railroad Company, at which said election a
majority of the legal voters of said township voted for and were
in favor of a subscription to the capital stock of said railroad
company, by the said township," of the said sum; that, on the
1st of October, 1867, in pursuance of said vote, and of said
act of February 28, 1867, the then supervisor of the township
subscribed, in its name, the sum of $50,000, receiving from the
railroad company, for the township, proper certificates of
stock, and, in connection with the township clerk, and in payment for such stock, executing and delivering to the company
the bonds and coupons in suit; that the township, for nine
consecutive years, regularly and annually assessed taxes to
meet the interest on said bonds, and paid the same over without objection; that on the first day'of December, 1868, the
plaintiff purchased the bonds in suit at their par value from
one Tiernan, to whom they had been sold by the company;
that on the first Monday of September, 1869, and subsequently,
the township, by its proper officers, participated, as a stockholder, in sundry meetings of the company's stockholders;
that on the 28th of October, 1871, its then supervisor caused

ANDERSON v. SANTA ANNA.
Opinion of the Court.

the bonds to be registered in the office of the auditor of public
accounts of Illinois, who endorsed on each bond his certificate
to the effect that it had been registered in his office pursuant
to the act of April 16, 1869, to fund and provide for paying
the railroad debts of counties, townships, cities, and towns;
and that on the 1st day of July, 1874, the township exchanged
this stock for a like amount of stock in another corporation,
the Indianapolis, Bloomington and Western Railroad Company, which latter stock, during the time the township has
held and owned it, has been worth. as much as fifty per cent.
of its par value.
The record does not disclose the particular ground upon
which the Circuit Court sustained the demurrer, and gave judgment for the township. But we cannot understand how that
result was possible, except upon the hypothesis that the act of
February 28, 1867, legalizing elections previously held, at
which a majority of the legal voters of a township declared in
favor of a subscription to the stock of this company, was unconstitutional. But the constitutionality of that very statute,
in respect of the clause now before us, was directly sustained
by this court in St. Joseph Townshp v. 1?ogers, 16 Wall. 644,
663. The question there was as to the validity of bonds issued
by a township on the 1st of October, 1867, to the Danvillej
Urbana, Bloomington and Pekin Railroad Company, under the
authority of the before-mentioned act of February 28, 1867,
and in accordance with a popular vote at an election held in
•August, 1866. It was there contended that the act was uiconstitutional and void, as creating a debt for a municipality,
against its will expressed in a legal manner. There, as here,
the election referred to in the bonds was held without authority
of law. But the court, speaking by MV~r. Justice Clifford, said,
that, according to repeated decisions of the Supreme Court of
Illinois and of this court, defective subscriptions of the kind
there made "may' in all cases, be ratified where the, legislature
could have originally conferred the power,"-citing, among
other cases, Cowgill v. Long, 15 Ill. 209, and Xeithsburg v.
Brick, 34 Ill. 405.
In Cowgill v. Long, 15 Ill. 202, 204, it appears that a statute

360

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

of Illinois authorized-the legal voters of any school district to
meet together at a certain time in any year and det6rmnine by
vote whether a tax should be levied for the support of common
schools, for building and repairing school-houses, or for other
school purposes. The inhabitants of a district held an election
and voted a tax for the purpose of erecting a school-house.
The tax was asses.'ed and stbps were taken for its collection.
Bat as the election was not held at the time directed by the statute, certain tax-payers, whose property was levied on and was
about to be sold, instituted a suit to enjoin the sale. Pending
-that suit, the legislature passed an act declaring the vote and
tax "to be good, valid, and effectual in law and in equity," and
legalized what had been done by the local officers in reference
to the assessment of the tax. The court held that although the
tax was voted at a time not authorized by law, and was not so
certified as to become a valid tax,- "it was clearly 'ompetent
for the legislatqre to remedy those defects, while the tix remained uncollected." "Laws .of this ,,haracter," said Chief
Justice Treat, delivering the -nanimous opinion of the court,
"are often passed. to secure th collection of taxes defe~tively
levied, and there can be no serious objection to their validity."
In Keitksburg v. Fq'ic-, above cited, 34: Ill. 405, 421, one of
the questions presented was as to the validity of an act of 1857,
giving a special charter to the town of Keithsburg, and conferring upon it authority to subscribe stock to a certain railroad
company, and at the same time legalizing and confirming a
previous subscription to the stock of the same corporation by
the town while acting under the gen~ral incorporation law for
towns and cities. The court, speaking by Mr. Justice Breese,
said: "If the subscription was made under the organization
allowed by, the general incorporation law of 1849, the 17th
section of the act of 1857 legalizes and confirms it. The subscription,, therefore, was good if made under the act of 1857,
as an original subscription under.the second section, or as a
subscription made under the act of. 1849, confirmed as it is by
the 17th sectionof the act of 18.57. The bonds may be regarded as issued by the old corporation, confirmed by the new
act, or as a new issue under thesecond section of the actof 1857."

ANDERSON 'v. SANTA ANNA.
Opinion of the Court.

In Sclso
v. Watki, 22 Ill. 66, 73, one of the questions
was as to the constitutionality of a statute which legalized the
acts and proceedings of certain school district trustees in uniting districts and levying and collecting taxes for building
houses, and for the support of schools therein, and provided
that all proceedings may be had in the same manner as if
those proceedings had been strictly regular and legal.' The
court said, by Walker, J., that there could be no doubt that
"the legislature have the power to form a school 'district, or
may legalize the acts of officers in attempting to form a district,
so as to render such district legal. .
.
And the power to
cure irregularities in the manner of levying a tax is equally
undoubted, and, so' far as this tax was levied for the purposes
specified in the act, there is no doubt that the levy is thereby'
made valid."
These cases were all determined before the bonds in suit
were issued. While they are not analogous in -every respect
to the one before us, they seem to rest upon the principle that
the legislature when not restricted by the Constitution, may
by retroactive statutes, legalize the unauthorized acts'and proceedings of subordinate municipal agencies, where such acts
and proceedings would have been valid if done under legislative
sanction previously given. The decision in St. Joseh Town8k ip v. Rogers, only gave effect to principles announced by the
State court prior to the issuing of the bonds. If, according to
the law of Illinois, as declared by its highest court at the time
the bouds in suit were issued, the act of February 28, 1867,
was a valid exercise of legislative power, the rights of the
purchasers or holders could not be affected merely by subsequent change of decision. For it is the long-established doctrine of this court-from which, as said recently in Green
County v. Connee, 109 U. S. 105, we are not disposed to
swerve-that where the liability of a municipal corporation
upon negotiable securities depends upon a local statute, the
rights of the parties are to be determined according to the law
as declared by the State courts at the time such securities were
issued. In Douglas v. County of Pike, 101 U. S. 677, the
Chief Justice said: "After a statute has been settled by judi-

1362

OCTOBER TERM,

1885.

Opinion of the Court.

cial construction, the construction becomes, zo far as contract
rights are concerned, as much a part of the statute as the text
itself, and a change of decision is, to all intents and purposes,
the same in effect on contracts as an amendment of the law by
means of a legislative enactment." See also County of Ra,118 v.
Douglass, 106 U. S. 728, 732; Olcott v. Site visor, 16 Wall.
68; City v. Lamson, 9 Wall. 477, 485; Boyd v. Alabama, 94
U. S. 64:5; Taylor v. Ypsilanti, 105 U. S. 60, 71; Thompson
v. ee County, 3 Wall. 327, 330; Brown v. Jlayor, 63 N. Y.
239, 24-4; Cooley's Const. Lin. 474, 477, 4th Edit.; Dillon's
Nun. Corp. § 46.
If, however, we are in error in our interpretations of
the decisions in Cowyill v. Long, Scho~field v. Jfatkins, and
Xeithsburg v. 1rik, it results that when the bonds were executed there was no decision of the State court in reference to
the power of the legislature to enact the statute of February
28, 1867. In that case, the duty of this court is to determine,
upon its independent judgment, what was the law of Illinois
when the rights of the parties accrued. In Bu'rges v. Seligman, 107 U. S. 20, 33, the court had occasion to re-examine all
its prior adjudications concerning the obligation of the Federal
courts to follow the decisions of the State courts upon questions
of local law. Mr. Justice Bradley, speaking for the whole
court, after observing that the Federal courts had an independent jurisdiction in the administration of State laws, co6rdinate with, and not subordinate to, that of the State courts,
and are bound to exercise their own judgment as to the meaning and effect of these laws, said '"So, when contracts and
transactions have been entered into, and rights have accrued
thereon, under a particular state of the decisions, or where
there has been no decision of the State tribunals, the Federal
courts properly claim the right to adopt their own interpretation of the law applicable to the case, although a different interpretation may be ad6pted Ey the State courts after such
rights have. accrued. But even in such cases, for the sake of
harmony and to avoid confusion, the Federal courts will lean
to an'agreement of views with the State courts if the question
seems to be balanced with doubt." Any other rule, it was

'ANDERSON v. SANTA ANNA.
Opinion of the Court.

further said, would defeat "the very object of giving to the xiational courts jurisdiction to administer the laws of the States in
controversies between citizens of different States."
Assuming, then, for the purposes of this case, that the question of legislative power as here presented had not, when the
bonds in suit were issued,, been finally determined by the State
court, we per6eive no reason to doubt the correctness of the decision upon this point in iSt. Joseph Towrship v. Rogers. It is
not claimed that the constitution of Illinois, in terms, forbadb
retrospective legislation. But the statute in question is supposed
to be obnoxious to that clause which provides that "the corporate authorities of counties, townships, school districts, cities,
towns, and villages, may be vested with power to assess and col.
lect taxes for corporate purposes." Numerous decisions of the
State court, to which our attention was called in other cases, construe that provision as defining not simply the class of municipal officers upon whom the power of taxation, for local purpdses,
may be conferred, but the purposes for which that power maybe exerted. Those decisions are to the effect, that, within the
meaning of the constituticn, the corporate authorities of a township, like Santa Anna, hre the electors, and that while the construction of a railroad, through or near the township, would be
a corporate purpose within the meaning of that instrument, a
debt for that object could not be imposed upon it without the
consent of its corporate authorities, that is, without the consent
of the electors. These principles fall far short of sustaining the
proposifion that the curative clause of the act of February 28,
1867, was unconstitutional; for, the legislature did not, in any
just sense, impose a debt upon Santa Anna Township against
the will of its corporate authorities, the electors. The act embraces only townships which, by a, majority of their legal
voters, at an election previously held, had declared for a subscription. That such majority was given at an election held
by the township in the customary form is averred in the declaration and is admitted by the demurrer. The curative act only
gave effect to the declared will of the electors. As the cofnstitution of the State did not provide any particulafI'node in which
the corporate authorities of a township should nianifest their

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

willingness or desire to incur a municipal debt for railroad purposes, we perceive no reason why the action of the majority of
legal voters, at an election held in advance of legislative action,
might not be recognized by the legislature and constitute the
basis of its subsequent assent to the creation of such indebtedness, and its ratification of what had been done. In G-renada
County v. Brvogden, 112 U. S. 261, 271, where somewhat the
same question was involved, we said: "Since what was done
in this case by the constitutional majority of qualified electors
and by the board of supervisors of the county would have been
legal and binding upon the county had it been done under legislative authority previously conferred, it is not perceived why
subsequent legislative ratification is' not, in the absence of constititional restrictions upon such legislation, equivalent to
original authority." See also Thom28on v. Perrine,103 U. S.
806, 815; Ritede v. Franklin, 22 Wall. 67; TtoraZoon v. Lee
County, above cited; City v. Lamon, above cited; Campbell
v. City of Jfeno a, 5 Wall. 194; Otoe Co. v. Baldwin, 111 U.
S. 1, 15. The same principle was announced by the Supreme
Court of Illinois in a very recent case-U , . 2fortgage Co. v.
Groms, 93 Ill. 483, 494-involving the constitutionality of a
statute of Illinois which was retrospective in its operation.
"Unless," said the court in that case, "there be a constitutional
inhibition, a legislature has power, when it interferes with no
vested right, to enact retrospective statutes to validate invalid
contracts or to ratify and confirm any act it might lawfully
have authorized in the first instance." It cannot b , denied
that the legislature could lawfully hhve afithorized a subscription by Santa Anna Township to the stock of this road, upon
the assent, in some proper form, of a majority of its legal voters.
The act of 1867 interfered with no vested right of the township; for, as an organization entirely for public purposes, it had
no privileges -or powers which were not subject, under the Constitution, to legislative control. The statute 'did nothing more
than to ratify and confirm acts which the legislature might lawfully have authorized in the first instance.
We infer from the arguments before us that the Circuit Court
felt obliged by the decision in Towneh8p of Elmwoo v..3arcy,

ANDERSON v. SANTA ANNA.
OpiMiou of the Court.

92 U. S. 289, to hold the act of February 28, 1867, to be iinconstitutional. In that case, the main question was as to the
liability of. Elmwood Township upon bonds issued, in its name,
by its supervisor and town clerk,, under the authority, not of
that act, but of one passed April 17, 18.69, which legalized and
confirmed, and declared to be "binding upon the township, an
additional subscription to the stock of the Dixon, Peoria and
Hannibal Railroad Company, pursuant to the vote of a majority
of legal voters of the township at an election held at a time
when the town had exhausted its power to subscribe. The
bonds then in suit were issued on the 27th of April, 1869. The
majority of the court, in that case, held the act of April 17,
1869, to be unconstitutional, entirely upon the authority of'
Hfarward v. St. Clair Drainage No.. 51 fll. 130; People v.
fayor, 51 Ill. 17; ffe88ler v. Drainage Commisioner, 53 Ill.
105; Lovingto v. Vider, 53 Ill. 302; Yar8hall v. Silliman,
61 11. 218; and Viley v. Sillihnan, 62 Ill. 170. We have
already seen that St. Jo8eph v. 1Roger8, ubi 8upra, maintained
the validity of the very act now before us, upon the authority,
as well of the then existing law of the State as declared by its
highest court, as of our own decisions upon the general question of thfe power of the legislature to legalize that which it
might have originally authorized.. Although the decision in
that case was cited by counsel in ElnVwood v. .Marcy,the court,
in the latter case, did not refer to it or overrule it, but applied
to the Elmwood bonds the principles announced in the later
decision7 of the State court. While the courts of the United
States accept and apply the construction of~a State Constitntion or of a local statute, upon whiclh the rights of parties depend, which has been fixed by the course of decisions in the
State court, it is the settled doctrine of this court, that rights"
accruing under one construction will not be lost merely by a
change of opinion in the State court; and where such rights
have accrued, before the State court has announced its construction, the Federal courts, although leaning to an agreement
with the State court, must determine the question upon their
own independent judgment: If the decisions of the State court,
commencing with Harward v. S&. ClairDrainage Co., would,

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

if applied here, require an affirmance, we cannot depart from
the long-established dbctrine which makes it our duty to determine the rights of parties, where those rights depend upon the
local law, according to that law as judicially declared at the
time such rights accrued, or, in the absence of any such declaration, according to the law as, in. our judgment, it then was.
We are of opinion that the demurrer should have been overruled.
The judgment is reversed, with directionsfor further .wroceedings in eonformity with this opini.n.
Confarr v. The Township of Santa Anna. In error to the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of
Illinois. Th judgment in this case is, upon the authority of
Anderson v. The Township of Santa Anna, just decided,
.Reversed and the cause remanded ,for further proceedings in
conformity with the opinion it that case.

LITTLE, lReceiver, v. HACKETT.
ERROR TO

TIlE CIRCUIT

COURT

OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

DISTRICT OF NEW JERSEY.
Submitted November 11, 1885.-Decided January 4, 1,M8.

A person who hires a public hack and gives the driver directions as to the
place to which he wishes to be conveyed, but exercises no other control
over the conduct of the driver, is not responsible for his acts or negligence,
or prevented from recovering against a railroad company for injuries suffered from a collision of its train with the hack, caused by the negligence
of both the managers of the train and of the driver.
Thorogoog'v. Bryan, 8 C. B. 115i, disapproved.

On the' 28th of June, 1879, the plaintiff below, defendant in
error here, was injured by the collision of a train of the Central R ailroad Company of New Jersey with the carriage in
which he was riding; and this action was brought to recover

