McCLURE v. UIITED STATES.
Syllabus.

courts of equity, as may be appropriate and necessary for the
furtherance of justice. In legal effect, the judicial allowance of
an appeal in this way transfers the cause to this court, if the
appellant dockets the appeal here at the proper time. If not
docketed, the appeal which has been allowed becomes inoperative for want of due prosecution. Griqgby v: Purcell, 99 U. S.
505, 506, and cases there cited.
But a citation is one of the necessary elements of an appeal
taken after the term, and if it is not issued and served before
the end of the term to which it must be made returnable, the
appeal becomes inoperative. The rule is thus stated in 0atro
v. United State8, which was a case of an appeal taken after the
term, and in which a citation was necessary: "The writ of
error, or the allowance of appeal, together with a copy of the
record and the citation, when a citation is required, must be
returned to the next term of this court after the writ is sued
out or the appeal allowed; otherwise the writ of error, or the
appeal, as the case may be, will become void, and the party
desiring to invoke the appellate jurisdiction will be obliged to
resort to a new writ of error or a new appeal." There is nothing in any of the cases to the contrary of this. As, withoult a
citation or its waiver, we cannot take jurisdiction of this appeal,
and it is conceded that none has been issued or served, and
there is no sufficient evidence of a waiver,
The motion to dinie8 i8 granted.

McCLTURE v. UNITED STATES.
ORIGINAL MOTION IN A CASE PENDING IN THIS COURT ON APPEAL
FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
Argued December 8, 1885.-Decided December 21, 1885.

An act of Congress speially referring to the Court of Claims a pay master's

claim for credits and differences in his accounts with the United States,
and providing that the evidence of the claimant may be received, and that,

if the court shall be satisfied that just and equitable grounds exist for credvoL. cXVI-10

146

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

its claimed by him, it shall make a decree setting forth the amount lor
which he shall receive credit, confers no equity jurisdiction upon that
court, but only the ordinary jurisdiction of the subject as a court of law,
subject to be proceeded with as in ordinary suits, and subject to the rules
regulating appeals in ordinary judgments.
This court will not remand to the Court of Claims a case at law, with directions to return whether certain distinct propositions in requests for findings
of fact, presented to that court at the trial of the case, are established andproved by the evidence, if it appears that the object of the request to have
it so remanded is to ask this court to determine questions of fact on the
evidence.

This-was a motion to order up evidence from the Court of
Claims, accompanied by an alternative motion to order that
court to make specific findings of fact. .The facts which make
the case are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Jeremiah Xf. Wieon for the motion.
.M. Awietavt Attowey-General Maury opposing.
MX.HRIEF JUsTIcE WAI= delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a motion for an order on the Court of Claims "to
transmit to this court all the evidence on which the cause was
-heard and determined" in that court, or, if such an order cannot be made, that the cause ba remanded, "with directions to
make return to this court, whether or not the evidence upon
which said cause was heard and determined does, or does not,
establish and prove the several separate and distinct propositions of fact contained in the requests for findings of fact presented . . . to the said court before the trial of said cause,
and upon the motion for a new trial, or a rehearing of said
cause, that the said court shall be directed to find specifically
all the material facts involved in the case."
The suit was brought under the following act of Congress,
passed February 24, 1874, entitled "An Act for the relief of
Colonel Daniel McClure, Assistant Paymaster-General:"
"Be it enacted, &c., That the claims of Daniel McClure,
Assistant Paymaster-General, for credits on differences in his
accounts as paymaster, under his official bond, dated March

McCLURE v. UNITED STATES.

-14-7

Opinion of the Court.

second, eighteen hundred and fifty-nine, shall be, and are
hereby, referred to the Court of Claims, .with jurisdiction to
hear and determine said claims. And if the said court shall
be satisfied from the evidence that any of the moneys charged
to him were not in fact received by him, or that other just and
equitable grounds exist .for credits claimed by him, it shall
make a decree, setting forth the amount to -which the said
McClure shall be entitled to receive credit; upon which the
proper accounting officers of the Treasury shall allow him the
amount so decreed as a credit in the settlement of his accounts:
Provided,That the testimony of said McClure shall be received
in his own behalf by said court, and until the determination of
said cause the final adjustment of his said accounts is suspended: And provided further, That an appeal shall be allowed to either party as in other cases." 18 Stat. 531.
In his petition filed in the cause, M~cClure made three claims
for credit, to wit.: 1, for $1183.13, money on deposit to his
official credit as paymaster with the Assistant Treasurer of the
United States at New Orleans, which was seized by the insurgent forces of the Confederate States and appropriated to their
own use without any fault on his part; 2, for $289.05 taken.
from his possession by a military force acting for and in behalf
of the Confederate authorities; and 3, for $1000, an over addition made of pay-rolls by his clerk, which in no manner inured
to his personal benefit. There were also three claims for differences between his accounts and those of the United States,
being for moneys charged to him which as he alleged were
not in fact received, to wit.: 1, $1432.43, said to have been
transferred to him by J. L. Hewitt; 2, $25,000 by C. S. Stevenson; and 3, $4993 by V. C. Hanna.
The Court of Claims has found as facts, 1, that the sum of
$289.05 was taken from McClure by an armed force in charge
of one of the Commissioners of the State of Texas, while it was
in his hands as government money; and 2, that the sum of
$1183.13 was turned over by the Assistant Treasurer of the
United States to the Confederate States while it was on deposit
with him to the credit of McClure as paymaster. As to the
sum of $1000, it is found that McClure stated an account show-

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

ing payments made to troops and accompanied the same with
vouchers, one of which was overadded $1000, and he got credit
at the time for the over addition as for hnoney paid out. As
to the several items of differences, it is found that the parties
by whom.the transfers were respectively supposed to be made
had each obtained a receipt from McClure for the amount
stated, and that they were allowed credit therefor in the settlement of their own accounts at the Treasury. As to the moneys
taken by the Confederate authorities, the court was satisfied
from the evidence that just and equitable, grounds existed for
their allowance as credits. As to the over addition, the court
was not satisfied from the evidence that any just and equitable
grounds existed for the credit thereof to McClure; and as to
the several amounts specified in the receipts obtained by the
different parties, the court was not satisfied from the evidence
that the moneys charged to McClure by the United States
were not in fact received by him, or that other just and equitable grounds existed for giving him credit for these amounts.
1. As to bringing up the evidence.
It is not pretended that this can be done unless the statute
under which the suit is brought takes the case out of the operation of our rules regulating appeals from the Court of Claim's.
The original act which gave the right of appeal from the Court
of Claims to this court was passed March 3, 1863, and provided
that the appeals should be "under such regulations as the
Supreme Court may direct." 12 Stat. 766, ch: 92, sec. 5.
This provision is still found in ยง 708 of the Revised Statutes.
At the December Term, 1865, this court adopted certain rules
for the regulation of such appeals, and Rule 1 was as follows:
"RuLE 1. In all cases hereafter decided in the Court of
Claims in which, by the act of Congress, such appeals are allowable, they shall be heard in the Supreme Court upon the
following record, and none other:
"1. A transcript of the pleadings in the case, of Lhe final
judgment or decree of the-,court, and of such inteflocutory
orders, rulings, judgments, and decrees as may be necessary to
a proper review of the case.
"2. k finding of the facts in.the case by said Court of

McCLURE v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Cour

Claims, and the conclusions of law on said facts on which the
court founds its judgment or decree.
"The finding of the facts and the conclusions of law to be
stated separately and certified to this court as part of the
record.
"The facts so found are to be the ultimate facts or propositions which the evidence shall establish, in the nature of a special verdict, and not the evidence on which those ultimate facts
are founded. See Burp v. De8 Zoines Co., 1 Wallace, 102."
This rule was amended in some particulars at the December
Term, 1872, but not in a way to affect the present case. It
has been in force substantially in its original form from the
time of its adoption until now, and has always been strictly
adhered to. Such being the case, when Congress passes a
special statute allowing a suit to be brought in the Court of
Claims, with a right of appeal to this court, the appeal will be
governed by the rules applicable to cases arising under the general jurisdiction of the court, unless provision is made to the
contrary.
In 11havey v. United State8, 105 U. S. 671, the suit was
brought under a statute passed April 14, 1876, 19 Stat. 490, ch.
279, which authorized the Court of Claims "to proceed in the
adjustment of the accounts between said claimants and the
United States as a court of equity jurisdiction; and may, if according to the principles of equity jurisprudence in its judicial
discretion, reform said contract and render such judgment as
justice and right between the claimants and the said Government may require." An appeal to this court was also given,
and we held that, as the suit was to be in equity, the parties
were entitled to an appeal in equity, which should bring up for
review the facts as well as the law. But in Tillson v. United
States, 100 U. S. 43, where the court was "authorized and
directed to . . . ascertain, determine, and adjudge the
amount equitably due said firm, if any, for such loss or damage," we decided that "the reference was made to the court,
as a court, and not to the judges as arbitrators. The determination is to be made according to the fixed rules which
govern that court in the adjudication of causes, and not at the

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

discretion of the judges. The same principles of jurisprudence,
and the same statutory regulations as to practice, are to be applied here that would be if the case had come into the court
under its general jurisdiction. It is to be ascertained and determined, what, if anything, is due the claimants from the government, according to the rules of law applicable to the settlement in that court of controversies between the government
and its citizens.

.

.

To our minds the word 'equitably,'

as here used, means no more than that the rules of law applicable to the case shall be construed liberally in favor .of the
claimants."
This suit clearly comes within the principle of Tllo s Ca8e.
It is in the nature of a defence to an action at law brought by
the United States to recover the balance claimed to be due
upon the account as stated at the treasury. The statute requires the court to bear and determine judicially, 1, whether
the disputed sums charged to .MfcClure were in fact* received by him, and, 2, whether any other just or equitable
grounds exist for the credits claimed by him. The statute
under which the Court of Claims is organized would have been
enough to give that court jurisdiction of the claims for credit
on account of the moneys seized by the Confederate authorities.
Rev. Stat. ยง 1059, clause 3, and ยง 1062. But under that
statute McClure could not have given testimony in his own
behalf. The special act relieves him from that disability and
allows him to join his claims for other errors with his claims
for losses by capture, &c., and thus have the whole matter
determined in one suit; but, save as to his competency as a
witness, and possibly an injunction to construe the rules of
law liberally in his favor,, the practice of the court under its
general jurisdiction has not been altered.
Some stress was put in argument upon the use of the word
"decree" in the statute, and it was insisted that, as this is a
term technically applicable to proceedings in equity, a suit in
equity must have been contemplated. To oar minds this word
has no special significance here. For it is provided in 1062
of the Revised Statutes, that if, in a suit begun under clause 3
of ยง 1059 of the Revised Statutes, the court ascertains that the

McCLURE v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

loss sued for had been without fault or negligence on the part of
the officer, "it shall make a decree setting forth the amount
thereof, and upon such decree the proper accounting officers of
the treasury shall allow to such officer the amount so decreed, as
a credit in the settlement of his accounts;" and it is evident that
the draughtsman of the present statute must have had the other
before him when he was doing this part of his work, and
followed it for the, sake of uniformity. We have never known
it to be contended that under the old law such a suit was to be
looked .upon as a suit in equity. It is clear, therefore, that this
motion in its first alternative must be denied.
2. As to remanding the cause for further findings.
At the time of the promulgation of Rule 1, a copy of which
has already been given, reference was made to the case of
Burr v. .De8 .foine8 Co., 1 Wdll. 99, 102, as indicating what
the finding of facts there provided for must contain. In that
case, what was called "an agreed statement of facts" appeared
in the record, and the question was as to whether it could be
considered by this court. Upon this subject it was said: "The
statement of facts on which this court will inquire, if there is
or is not error in the application of the law to them, is a statement of the ultimate facts or propositions which the evidence
is intended to establish, and not the evidence on which those
ultimate facts are supposed to rest. The statement must be
sufficient in itself, without inferences, or comparisons, or balancing of testimony, or weighing evidence, to justify the
application of the legal principles which must determine the
case. It must leave none of the functions of a jury to be discharged by this court, but must have all the sufficiency, fulness,
and perspicuity of a special verdict. If it requires the court to
weigh conflicting testimony, or to balance admitted facts, and
deduce from these the propositions of fact on which alone a
legal conclusion can rest, then it is not such a statement as this
court can act upon."
In United State8 v. Pugh, 99 U. S. 265, the suit was brought
under the abandoned and captured property act, and the main
controversy was as to whether the proceeds of the sale of the
property had actually been paid into the treasury. There was

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

no direct proof to this effect, and the court, instead of stating
positively in its findings that such a payment had been made,
set out all the circumstantial facts established by the evidence
tending to show a payment, and gave judgment against the
United States. When the case got here on appeal, it was
claimed that the findings were not sufficient to support the
judgment, because it did not appear affirmatively that the
proceeds of the property had actually been paid into the treasury. But we held otherwise, because there was nothing left
for us to determine but the necessary legal effect of the circumstantial facts found, and in doing so we said "that, when the
rights of the parties depend upon circumstantial facts alone,
and there is doubt as to the legal effect of the facts, it is the
duty of the court, when requested, to so frame its findings as
to put the doubtful question into the record. This would not
require us on appeal to decide upon the weight of evidence.
,That is done in the court below when the particular fact is
found which the evidence tends to prove. The effect of mere
evidence stops when the fact it proves is established. After
that, the question is as to the effect of the fact; and when the
evidence in a case has performed its part, and brought out all
the facts that have been proved, these facts thus established
are to be grouped and their legal effect as a whole determined."
But in The Franci8 TVright, 105 U. S. 381, 387, where the
question was as to the kind of facts the court could be required
to put in its findings, we said it did not include "mere incidental facts which only amount to evidence bearing on the
ultimate facts of the case." Questions depending on the weight
of evidence must be conclusively settled below.
Applying these rules to the present case, we find that, as to
the several disputed items of money charged against McClure,
his only defence is that he never received them. If received,
he is accountable. Upon the hearing, his receipt for each of
the several sums was produced. The genuineness of his signature was not denied in any case, but he offered evidence tending to prove that he did not in fact get the money. Against
this, other evidence was offered on the part of th6 government,
and the question for determination below was whether the

MccCLURE v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

testimony in his behalf Was sufficient to overcome the receipts,
and the evidence in corroboration of them. The finding was
against him. What he wishes incorporated into the record
now are, the incidental facts and circmnstances testified to in
his behalf which, when weighed as evidence, he thinks will overcome the showing against him. In other words, he wishes the
record so made up that we can put on one side the receipts and
the evidence in support of them, and on the other the evidence
on which he relies, and determine which preponderates. Clearly
there is nothing in Pugh's case which supports the right to any
such findings. In that case there was no question of preponderance. There was no " balancing of testimony or weighing
of evidence." The court was not required "to weigh conflicting
testimony or balance admitted facts." All that had to be done
was to declare the law on established facts all in harmony.
Here, if the additional findings asked for are sent up, the question for us to determine will be, the comparative weight as evidence of the facts found on one side with those found on the
other. In other words, whether the evidence offered on the
part of McClure is sufficient to overcome the effect as evidence
of his receipts, and the other testimony against him. The rule
contemplates no such practice. All we can do is to declare
the law upon facts which, so far as we are concerned, must be
taken to be undisputed.
As to the proposed findings, with a view to ascertaining the
existence of "just and equitable grounds for credits claimed,"
they are clearly immaterial for the purpose of a judicial determination pf the rights of the parties. At most they would only
show that McClure had been compelled to conduct his business
under very unfavorable circumstances; that the amounts disbursed by him had been large; that much of his business had
necessarily been done by his clerks, upon the accuracy of whose
statements and calculations he was compelled in a great measure to rely; that with the exception of the present differences
his accounts had always been found correct; that he had sometimes given receipts in advance of the time he had actually got
the money, and by reason of the limited facilities for transacting business in his office it was possible for a receipt to be

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Syllabus.

got without the money being actually" paid over; that there
had been great delay in advising him of the errors in his accounts; and things of a like character. These are fa6ts proper
for the consideration of Congress on an application by McClure
for legislative action in his favor, but, under the. most liberal
construction of the rules which govern courts of justice in determining the rights of parties, they fall far short of what is
necessary for affording him judicial relief.
The motion is denied.

UNION PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY v. UNITED
STATES.
ORIGINAL MOTION IN A CASE PENDING IN THIS COURT ON APPEAL
FROM THE COURT OF CLA MS.
Argued December 7, 1885.-Decided December 21, 1885.

There is nothing in Rev. Stat. 5261, authorizing certain railroad companies
to bring suits against the United States in the Court of Claims to recover
the price of freight or transportation, which takes those suits out of the

operation of the general rules of this court regulating appeals from the
Court of Claims, or which makes it proper for this court to require the
Court of Claims to send up with its findings of facts the evidence in regard
to them.
When the Court of Claims, on being requested by a party in a cause there
pending to find .specifically upon several facts which are only incidental
facts and amount only to evidence touching the main facts in issue, and
the court disregards the requests and finds the facts at issue generally, and
judgment is entered, and the party whose request was denied appeals, this
court will not remand the case to the Court of Claims, with directions to
specifically pass upon each of said requests, or to make a finding of facts on
the subject embraced in each of said requests.

This was a motion made in a case appealed from the Court

of Claims, to require that court to send up the evidence, or to
specifically find on certain requests for findings made by one
of the parties, and not passed upon specifically and in detail
by. the court.
court.

The facts are stated in the opinion of the

