COFFEY v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

Within this principle there can be no question as to the correctness of the action of the Supreme Court of the District.
Its judgment is, therefore,
-Afflrmed.

COFFEY v. UITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.
Argued December 10, 185.-Decided January 19, 1S.

On a writ of error to review a judgment of forfeiture, entered after a trial by
a jury and a general verdict for the United States, on an information in
rem, filed in a Circuit Court of the United States, after a seizure of the
re8 on land, for a violation of the internal revenue laws, there was no bill
of exceptions, and no exception to the overruling of a motion for judgment non obstante veredicto and of a motion to set aside the verdict anAl in
arrest of judgment : Held, That questions arising on demurrers to counts
in the information, and as to the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court, could be
reviewed.
The Circuit Court had juirisdiction of the suit.
A general verdict on several counts in such an information, which proceeds only
for the forfeiture of specific property, will be upheld, if one count is good.
An information in rem, founded on section 3257 of the Revised Statutes, is
sufficient if it follows the words of the section, and alleges that the person
named was engaged in carrying on the business of a distiller and defrauded
the United States of the tax on part of the spirits distilled by him ; and it
is not necessary it should set forth the particular means by which he defrauded the United States of the tax, or specify the particular spirits covered by the tax, or aver that the spirits seized were distilled by him, or were
the product of his distillery, or that the distillery apparatus was wrongfully
used.
Rule 22 of the Rules in Admiralty prescribes regulations for the form of informations and libels of information on seizures for the breach of the laws
of the United States, on land or water ; and the general rules of pleading
in regard to Admiralty suits in rem apply to a suit in rem for a forfeiture,
founded on a violation of the internal revenue laws, brought by the United
States, after a seizure of the re8 on land.
The answer of the claimant set up a prior judgment, and sentence to pay a fine,
on a plea of guilty by him to a criminal information founded on the same violations of law alleged in the information in this suit: Reid, That no reply

OCTOBER .TERM, 1g85.
Statement of Facts.
to the answer was necessary to raise an issue of fact thereon, and such issue
must be regarded as having been found against the claimant, by the general verdict ; and that no question in regard to such defence could be
raised on a writ of error, in the absence of a demurrer to the answer, and
of a bill of exceptions raising specific questions.

This was an information filed by the attorney of the United
States for the District of Kentucky, on behalf of the United
States, in the Circuit Court for that District, against one copper still and worm and other distilling apparatus, one distillery,
with all its appurtenances, consisting of boiler, engine, copper
doubler complete, with 65 tubs, also 22 barrels and 2 pieces of
apple brandy, estimated at 850 gallons, said to be the property
of John W. Coffey, and under seizure on land, by a deputy collector of internal revenue, as being forfeited to the United
States. The original information alleged that Coffey!' did have
said still and worm, and distillery, engine, boiler,, and other distilling apparatus, under his control and set up, and was engaged
in carrying on the business of a distiller, and did then and there
change and alter the stamps, marks, and brands on certain casks
and packages containing distilled spirits, and did put into certain casks and packages spirits of greater strength than was
indicated by the inspection mark thereon, and did fraudulently
use casks and packages having inspection marks and stamps
thereon, for the -purpose of selling other spirits, and spirits of
different quantity and quality from the spirits previously inspected therein, and then and there attempted to defraud, and
did defraud, the.United States of the tax on the spirits distilled by him." Under a monition abd attachment the marshal
arrested the property and gave the notice required by law.
Coffey filed a claim to all the property as owner, and all of it
except the apple brandy was released to him on a bond. He
answered the information, admitting the seizure, and denying
the other allegations, except that as to his having under his
control and.set up the property in that behalf alleged. The
notice published stated that the property was seized for a violation of Rev. Stat. %§3257 and 3326.
Afterwards, an amended inforiiation was filed, by leave of
the court. It stated that the attorney of the United States

COFFEY v. UNITED- STATES.
Statement of Facts.

"amends his information herein, and gives the said judges
further to know," that Coffey was engaged in carrying on the
business of a distiller, and did "defraud, and attempt to defraud, the United States of the tax on part of the spirits
distilled by him," and that the said distillery and distillery apparatus were used by him, and that the said 22 barrels and 2
pieces of barrels of apple brandy,'to wit, distilled spirits, were
'found on his distillery premises. It stated, in a second count,
that the said distilled spirits were subject to a tax imposed by
law, which had not been paid, aid were found in the possession, custody and control of said Coffey foi the purpose of
being removed and sold by him in fraud of the internal revenue
laws, and with design of avoiding the payment of said tax. It
stated, in a third count, that said Coffey was an authorized distiller, and did "knowingly and wilfully omit, neglect and refuse to do or cause to be done certain things required of him
by law in the carrying on and conducting of his said business,
to wit, did knowingly and wilfully omit, neglect and refuse
to stamp and brand, and cause and' require to be stamped and
branded, as required by law, a large number, to wit, two certain packages of distilled spirits, containing more than twenty
gallons each, before removing the same from the warehouse
where the same were stored and deposited, and before selling
and disposing of the same, and did sell and dispose of and remove from said warehouse the said spirits before the tax had
been paid thereon or the said packages had been properly
brandell and stamped," and that he owned and was interested
in the said 22 barrels and 2 pieces of barrels of distilled spirits.
The claimant demurred to the first count in the amended
information, as insufficient in law and fact. He demurred to
the second count, as presenting no cause of forfeiture of either
the distillery or distilled spirits, and as insufficient in law. He
demurred to the third count, as insufficient in law and not authorized, because a specific penalty other than forfeiture is provided for the act therein charged, to wit, in section 3296 of the
Revised Statutes. The court overruled the demurrers.
The claimant then answered the amended information, denying the allegations of the first count; denying the allegations

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

of the second count, except the one that the distilled spirits
seized were subject to a tax imposed by law, which tax had not
been paid; and denying the allegations of the third count, except the one as to the ownership of the distilled spirits seized.
There was a trial by a jury in October, 1881, in which the
jury failed to agree on a verdict. The claimant then filed an
amendment to his answer, as follows: "The claimant, John
W. Coffey, amends his answer herein to the information and
amendments thereto, and states that the custody, possession,
and conitrol of the articles or objects on which a tax was by
law imposed, and complained of in the information of plaintiffs,
and found in his possession, to wit, twenty-two barrels (22) and
two pieces of barrels of brandy, distilled spirits, and charged to
have been in his possessi6n for the purpose of selling the same
in fraud of the internal revenue laws, and with design to avoid
the payment of the taxes thereon, or sold or removed by him
in fraud of the internal revenue laws, and the various assigninents of breaches and violations of law now considered, are the
same goods and wares and objects, or commodities and distilled
spirits, named and set out in an information Tiled against him,
the said John W. Coffey, at the February term of this court,
1881, and prior to the filing of the information herein. That
all of the said twenty-two barrels and two pieces of barrels of
*brandy, distilled, spirits, found in his custody, control, and possession, are the same found in his control and possession, prior
to the information filed against him at the February term,
1881, of this court, and that all the acts complained of in
plaintiffs' information herein might havd been established, if
said allegatious be true, under the said information, either upon
the counts in said information based upon sections 3450 or
3452 or 3251. That all the evidence which would be necessary to establish, and competent under, the various assignments
of breaches and of intended frauds in plaintiffs' information
herein, would be competent under and would tend to establish
the allegations of said information at said February term, 1881.
That the various assignments [of] frauds and attempts or intents to defraud the United States of the tax imposed upon said
distilled spirits, to wit, the 22 barrels. and two pieces of barrels

COFFEY v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of Facts.

of apple brandy, relate to the same subject-matter and are based
upon the same transaction as the various allegations in said information at the February term, 1881, contained, so far as they
relate to offences under sections 3452, 3453, and 3257, or
either of them, and that at the time when the said information
at the February term, 1881, was drawn, considered, and presented by the attorney for the United States, all the facts which
would be competent to sustain the allegations of plaintiffs' information herein were known to and within the possession of
the representatives of the United States. And the claimant,
John W. Coffey, says that the United States ought not to
maintain this action for the penalty, punishment, and forfeiture, or either of them, claimed in sections 3450, 3453, 3457,
or 3257, for, at the February term, 1881, an information was
found, as recited above, in the district of Kentucky, at Louisville, and in this court, against this claimant, John W. Coffey,
the claimant named herein, the counts of said information
alleging that he had in his possession a large quantity of distilled spirits upon which a tax was by law imposed and had
not then been paid, with intent to defraud, or for the purpose
of defrauding, the United States of the tax thereon, and With
design to avoid the payment of the tax thereon, on a part of
said spirits, or on the spirits so in his possession. That at said
term of said court the defendant plead guilty to the charges
and counts in said information, and was adjudged and sentenced to pay a fine of five hundred dollars ($500), which judgment was the full penalty and punishment for the violations of
law imposed on him for the alleged offences charged in said information, which were the same violations and charges, offences, and allegations of fraud, .design to avoid the payment of
the taxes due and imposed on said spirits, and allegations of intent to sell the same in fraud of the internal revenue laws of the
United States, and he pleads and relies on the facts herein set
forth as a bar to plaintiffs' claim herein, and asks the same to
be dismissed, with all proper relief, &c."
Four months after this amendment to this answer was filed,
the case was tried by a jury, which rendered a general verdict
for the plaintiffs. The claimant thereupon moved for a judg-

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

ment, notwithstanding the verdict, and at.a later day moved to
set aside the verdict and in arrest of judgment, on these grounds:
"(1) The verdict is not authorized by law and the facts in the
case. (2) Because the defendant has been tried for the same
offence herein charged, in a former proceeding, a criminal information, and this court has no jurisdiction in forfeitures. (3)
That the information itself is insufficient in law to sustain the
action." The court overruled the motions, and entered a judgmnt condemning as forfeited the property attached, "for the
reasons and causes in the information and amended information
specified," and awarding costs against the claimant. To reverse this judgment the claimant sued out a writ of error.
-Yr. Gabriel C. WTharton, 21r. Samuel .X~cee,and .Ar. T. T.
TFhartor for plaintiff in error submitted on their brief.
-r. Assi8tant Atto'ney-General Xaury for defendant in
error.
MR.JUSTICE BLATOHFORD delivered the opinion of .the court.
After stating the facts in the language reported above, he continued:
There is no bill of exceptions in the record, and no exception
to the overruling of the motions; but the questions arising on
the demurrers to the counts of the amended information, and
the question as to the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court, are open
for consideration.
The objection to the jurisdiction is not well taken. By § 629
of the Revised Statutes, subd. 4, original jurisdiction is given to
the Circuit Courts "of all causes arising under any law providing internal revenue." In Title XXXV. of the Revised Statutes, concerning "Internal Revenue," § 3213 provides that "all
suits for fines, penalties and forfeitures, where not otherwise
provided for, shall be brought in the name of the United States,
in any proper form of action, or by any appropriate form -of
proceeding, qui tam or otherwise, before any Circuit or District
Court of the United States, for the district within which said
fine, penalty or forfeiture may have been incurred, or before

COFFEY v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

any other court of competent jurisdiction." By § 563, subd. 1,
jurisdiction is given to the District Courts "of all suits for penalties and forfeitures incurred under any law of the United
States." By subd. 8 of § 563 jurisdiction is given to the District
Courts of all seizures on land and it is enacted that such jurisdiction shall be exclusive, except in the particular cases where
jurisdiction of such seizures is given to the Circuit Courts. By
subd. 4 of § 629, jurisdiction is denied to the Circuit Courts of,
suits for penalties and forfeitures arising under any act providing for revenue from imports and tonnage; but they have it in
suits for penalties and forfeitures arising under the internal
revenue laws.
Although, in practice, suits in rem for forfeitures for violations of the internal revenue laws are more frequently brought
in the District Courts, yet oases are to be found of such suits
originally bv'ught in the Circuit Courts, where jurisdiction was
taken and was not questioned. Such cases are United States v.
Two Tons of Coal, &c., 5 Blatchford, 386, in the Eastern District
of :New York, in 186.7, before Judge Benedict; United States Y.
One Still, &c., 5 Blatchford, 403, and United States v. 508 Bar,rels qf Distilled Spirits, 5 Blatchford, 407, and United States
v. 6 Barrels ff Di&'illed Spirit, 5 Blatchford, 512, in the jame
district in 1867, before Mr. Justice :Nelson and Judge Benedict;
United States v. 7 Barrels of Distilled Oil, &c., 6 Blatchfbrd,
174, in the same district, in 1867,'before Judge Benedict; and
lited States v. 200 Barrels of T~is8key, 2 Woods, 54, in the
tistrict of Louisiana, in 1874, before Mr. Justice Woods, then
Circuit Judge. Like jurisdiction of a suit in personam for
a violation of the internal revenue laws'was taken in 1877, by
the Circuit Court for the Eastern District of Missouri, held by
Mr. Justice Miller and Judge Dillon, in United States v. .- T3&Ye,
4 Dillon, 128.
It has been adjhdged by this court, that informations under
tbe revenue laws for the forfeiture of goods, which seek no
judgment of fine or imprisonment against any person, though
civil actions and not strictly criminal cases, are so far in the
nature of criminal proceedings as to come within the rule, that
a general verdict, upon several counts, seeking in different
VOL.

cxvi-28

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

forms one object, must be upheld if one count is good. Clifton
v. United States, 4 How. 242, 250; Snyder v: United Statms,
112 U. S. 216.
In this case, the first count in the amended information is
good. It is founded on § 3257 of the :Revised Statutes, which
provides as follows: "Whenever any person engaged in carrying on the business of a distiller defrauds or attempts to defraud the United States of the tax on the spirits distilled by
him, or of any part thereof, he shall forfeit the distillery
and, distilling a'pparatus used by him, and all distilled spirits
S.
., found in the distillery and on the distillery premises,
and shall be fined not less than five hundred dollars nor more
than five thousand dollars, and be imprisoned not less than six
months nor more than three years."
The counts of the
amended information are amendments of and additions to the
original information, and the allegations of the latter as to the
seizure of the property, on land, by the deputy collector, and
as to the fact of forfeiture, and the prayer for process, and for
a decree of forfeiture, form part of the amended information
and apply to the counts therein. The language of the first
count of the amended information follows that of § 3257, and
is, we think, sufficient, against the general objection taken by
the demurrer, that it is insufficient. In United States v. Simornon,96 U. S.360, an indictment founded on § 3281 of the
Revised Statutes, alleged that the defendant "did knowingly
and unlawfully engage in and carry on the business of a distiller, within the intent and meaning of the internal revenue
laws of the United States, with the intent to defraud the
United States of the tax on the spirits distilled by him, against
the peace," &c. Section 3281 provides that every person who
engages in or carries on the business of a.distiller with intent to
defraud the United States of the tax on the spirits distilled by
him, shall be fined and imprisoned. This court held that the
indictment was sufficient to authorize judgment, and that it
was not necessary to state the particular means by which the
United States were to be defrauded of the tax. So, in this case,
it was not necessary, under § 3257, to set forth the particular means by which the claimant defrauded and attempted to

COFFEY v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

defraud the United States of the tax, or to specify the' particular spirits covered by the tax. The first count of the amended
information is in substantial compliance with Rule 22 of the
Rules in Admiralty. That Rule prescribes regulations for the
form of informations and libels of information on seizures for
the breach of the laws of the United States on land or water;
and the general rules of pleading in regard to Admiralty suits
in, rem apply to a suit in. rem for a forfeiture, brought by the
United States, after a seizure on land. The Sarah, 8 Wheat.
391; Unio Ins. Co. v. United States, 6 Wall. 759, 765;
Armstrong's Foundry, 6 Wall. 766, 769; Morrie' Cotton, 8
Wall. 507, 511. It was not necessary to aver, in the informa,
tion, that the distilled spirits found on the claimant's distillery
premises, and seized, were distilled by him, or were the product
of his distillery, or that the distillery apparatus was wrongfully
used; because § 3257 does not make these facts elements of
the causes of forfeiture denounced by it. The only necessary elements are, that the person shall be engaged in carrying
on the business of a distiller, and that he shall defraud, or attempt to defraud, the United States of the tax on the spirits
distilled by him. The answer admits that the claimant owned
the property seized.
As to the plea of a former conviction, the proceedings being
kindred to those in a suit in Admirality in rem, so far as the
pleadings are concerned, no reply'or replication to the answer
was necessary to raise an issue of fact on the matters averred
in it. New matter in an answer is considered as denied by the
libellant. Rule 51, in Admiralty. The issue of fact as to the
former conviction must be held to have been found against the
claimant, by the general verdict; and no question in regard to
the defence set up can be raised, in the absenc6 of a demurrer
to the answer, and of a bill of exceptions raising specific questions.
Judgment aflrmed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

COFFEY v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE OnOurr COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR T
DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.
Argued December 10, 1885.-Decided January 18,1886.

A judgment of forfeiture, on an information in 'em, for a violation of the
internal revenue laws, filed by the United States, in a Circuit Court of the
United States, after a seizure of the res on land, was rendered after a general verdict. On a writ of error by the claimant, there being no bill of
exceptions: Held, that questions as to the sufficiency of the information,
and the regularity of the proceedings, not- having been formally raised in
the Circuit Court, could not be raised in this court.
After a specific denial, by answer, of the allegations of the information, the,
claimant cannot, in a court of error, on such a record as that above mentioned, be heard to say that he did not know the charge made in the infor-,
mation and could not defend against it.
After a general verdict, one good count in the information is sufficient to uphold the judgment, on such a record.
The Circuit Court had jurisdiction of the suit.
The claimant set up, by answer, a prior judgment of acquittal on a criminal
information against; him by the United States, in the same Circuit Court,
founded on the same sections of the revised Statutes sued on in this suit,
and alleged that such criminal information contained charges of all of the
violations of law alleged in the information in this suit. There was a general demurrer to the answer. After the general verdict for the United States,
the claimant moved for judgment non obstante veredicto. The motion was
denied. There was no bill of exceptions. On a writ of error: .Held, That, although one section counted on in the information declared, as a consequence of
the commission of the prohibited act (1) that certain specific property should
be forfeited, and (2) that the offender should be fined and imprisoned, yet,
as the issue raised as to the existence of the act or fact had been tried in a
criminal proceeding against the claimant, instituted by the United States,
and a judgment of acquittal rendered in his favor, that judgment was conclusive in his favor in this suit; and that the judgment of the Circuit Court
must be reversed, and the case be remanded, with a direction to enter a
judgment for the claimant, dismissing fhe'information, and to take proper
proceedings in regard to restoring the property attached.

This was an information filed by the attorney of the United

States for the District of Kentucky, on behalf of the United
States, in the Circuit Court for that District, against 10 barrels
of apple brandy, 1 apple mill, 37 tubs, and 2 copper stills, said

COFFEY v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of Facts.

to be the property of A. G. Coffey, and under seizure, on land,
by a deputy collector of internal revenue, as being forfeited to
the United States. The first count of the information alleged
that Coffey, being engaged in carrying on the business of a distiller, defrauded, and attempted to defraud, the United States
of the tax on part of the spirits distilled by him, and that the
two copper stills and other distillery apparatus were used by
him, and the distilled spirits were found on his distillery premises. The second count alleged that the distilled spirits, in respect of which a tax was imposed by law, and which tax had
not been paid, were removed, deposited and concedaled with intent to defraud the United States of part of sueh tax, and that
the two stills and other distilling apparatus, vessels, and utensils
were proper, and intended to be made use of, for and in the
making of such distilled spirits. The third count alleged that
the distilled spirits, on which a tax was imposed by law, were
found in the possession of Coffey for the purpose of being soldand removed by him in fraud of the internal revenue laws, and
with the design to avoid the payment of said tax, and that the
two copper stills, and other tools and property, so seized, were
in the place, yard, and enclosure where the distilled spirits were
found.
The first count was founded on § 3257 of the Revised Statutes, which provides as follows: "Whenever any person engaged in carrying on the business of a distiller defrauds, or
attempts to defraud, the United States of .the tax on the spirits
distilled by him, or of any part thereof, he shall forfeit the distillery and distilling apparatus used by him, and all distilled
spirits

.

.

.

found in the distillery and on the distillery

premises, and shall be fined not less than five hundred dollars
nor more than five thousand dollars, and be imprisoned not less
than six months nor more than three years."
The second count was founded on § 3450 of the Revised
Statutes, which provides as follows: "Whenever any goods or
commodities for or in respect whereof any tax is or shall be imposed, or any materials, utensils, or vessels proper or intended
to be made use of for or in the making of such goods or commodities, are removed, or are deposited or concealed in any

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

place, with intent to defraud the United States of such tax, or
any part thereof, all such goods and commodities, and all such
materials, utensils, and vessels, respectively, shall be forfeited.
And every person who removes, deposits, or conceals,

or is concerned in removing, depositing, or concealing any goods
or commodities for or in respect whereof any tax is or shall be
imposed, with intent to defraud the United States of such tax
or any part thereof, shall be liable to a fine or penalty of not
more than five hundred dollars.

.

.

The third count was founded on § 3453 of the Revised Statutes, which provides as follows: "All goods, wares, merchandise, articles, or objects, on which taxes are imposed, which
shall be found in the possession or custody, or within the control, of any person, for the purpose of being sold or removed by
him in fraud of the internal revenue laws, or with design to
avoid payment of said taxes, may be seized by the collector or
deputy collector of the proper district
forfeited to the United States; . .

.
.
and shall be
and all tools, imple-

ments, instruments, and personal property whatsoever, in the
place or building, or within any yard or enclosure, where such
articles

.

.

.

are found, may also be seized by any col-

lector or deputy collector, as aforesaid, and shall be forfeited as
aforesaid. The proceedings to enforce such forfeitures shall be
in the nature of a proceeding in rem, in the Circuit Court or
District Court of the United States for the district where such
seizure is made."
Under a monition and. attachment the marshal arrested the
property and gave the notice required by law. Coffey filed a
claim to all the property except one barrel of the distilled
spirits, as owner, and an answer to the information. The
answer denied the allegations of the three counts of the information, and in a fourth paragraph set up the following
defence: "Fourth. And further answering, the said claimant
states, that the alleged removals and concealments of distilled
spirits set forth in the various assignments and charges of
fraud, and attempts at and intent of fraud, in carrying on and
engaging in the business of a distiller, and in removals, disposing, and concealing of distilled sprits, alleged against him

COFFEY v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of Facts.

and now answered, are the same removals, concealments, and
depositing, and same carrying on of business of a distiller, as axe
recited in a criminal information filed against him, at the
October term of this court, 1881, and that all of said ' removals,'
'concealments,' ' depositing,' and ' intents to defraud,' the same
complained of in plaintiffs' information herein, might have
been established, if said allegations be true, under sections 3450,
3452, 3296, or 3257, upon which or some one or more of which
the counts in said criminal information were based; that all of
the evidence which would 'be necessary to establish, and
competent, under the various assignments and charges of fraud
set out in plaintiffs' libel herein, would also be competent and
would tend to establish the allegations of said criminal information; that the various charges of fraud and causes of forfeiture alleged by plaintiffs herein relate to the same subjectmatter, and are based on the same transactions, as the various
allegations in said criminal information contained, so far as
they relate to alleged offences under sections 3450, 3452, 3453,
3296, or 3257; and that, at the time when said criminal information was drawn by the attorney for the United States, and
at the time it was considered by him, all of the facts which
would be competent to sustain the allegations of plaintiffs' libel
herein were known to and within the possession of the representative of the United States. And he avers and says, that
the United States ought not to maintain its action herein fot
the penalty denounced in sections 3257, 3450, and 3453, for, at
the October term, 1881, in this circuit and district and in this
court herein, a criminal information, the same above referred
to, was found against him, the counts of which were based on
sections 3257, 3256, 3450, 3453, and 3296, or on some one or
more of them, alleging the carrying on the business of a distiller with intent to defraud the United States, and that he was
concerned in depositing, concealing, and removing a large
quantity of distilled spirits, with intent to defraud the United
States of the taxes imposed thereon, and having had in his
custody a large quantity of distilled spirits, with the design to
avoid the payment of the taxes imposed thereon; that the
counts in said criminal information contained the same charges,

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

in substance and effect, and are the same allegations of offences
and frauds, and attempts at frauds, and are founded on the
same sections of the statutes of the United States, as the
matters and things herein alleged in plaintiffs' libel; and he says
that all and singular of said matters at said term and in this
court were tried and inquired into and fully heard, and, on the
hearing thereof, the jury, duly empanelled and sworn, found
this defendant not guilty, and the court rendered a judgment
acquitting this defendant of the charges of frauds and attempts
at frauds therein alleged; and all of which are the same frauds
now set out by plaintiffs and herein answered by this defendant."
The sections referred to in this fourth paragraph of the answer, other than those above set forth, are as follows:
.SEc. 3256. Whenever any person evades, or attempts to
evade, the payment of the tax on any distilled spirits, in any
manner whatever, he shall forfeit and pay double the amount
of the 'tax so evaded or attempted to be evaded."
"SEC. 3296. Whenever any person removes, or aids or abets
in the remova! of, any distilled spirits on which the tax has
not been paid, to a place other than the distillery warehouse
provided by law, or conceals or aids in the concealment of any
spirits so removed, or aids or abets in the removal of any
distilled spirits from any distillery warehouse, or other warehouse for distilled spirits, authorized by law, in any manner
other than is provided by law, or conceals or aids in the concealment of any spirits so removed, he shall be liable to a
penalty of double the tax imposed on such distilldd spirits so
removed or concealed, and shall be fined not less than two
hundred dollars, nor more than five thousand dollars, and imprisoned not less than three months, nor more than three years."
"SEC. 3452. Every person who shall have in his custody or

possession any goods, wares, merchandise, articles, or objects
on which taxes are imposed by law, for the purpose of selling.
the same in fraud of the internal revenue laws, or with design
to avoid payment of the taxes imposed thereon, shall be liable
to a penalty of five hundred dollars, or not less than double
the amount of taxes fraudently attempted to be evaded."

COFFEY'v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

The United States filed a demurrer to the fourth paragraph
of the answer, "because it does not state facts sufficient to constitute a defence."
Eight ,days afterwards the issues of fact were tried by a jury,
which found a general verdict for the United States. The
claimant then moved the court to set aside the verdict, alleging as grounds, among others, that the court had no jurisdiction, and that the information was insufficient. fe also moved.
for judgment on the pleadings, notwithstanding the verdict.
The court made an order denying the motions, and entering a
judgment condemning the property as forfeited to the United
States, and awarding costs against Coffey. There was no bill
of exceptions, but the claimant sued out a writ of error to
review the judgment.
M"'. G. C. Mlarton Mrt. T. T. Alexander and Ifr. Samuel
3fcee for plaintiff in error submitted on their brief.
.AI'. Solicitor-Generalfor defendant in error.
MtR. JUsTIcE BLATOHFORD delivered the opinion of the court.

After stating the facts in the language reported above, he
continued :
The assignment of errors filed in this court asserts these
propositions: (1) that the information is not sufficient in law;
(2)'hat the Circuit Court had no jurisdiction of the subjectmatter of the action, or of the property seized, or of the person of the claimant; (3) that there was no sufficient monition,
attachment or seizure of the property, and no legal publication
and notice of the seizure, and no valuation of the goods, as
required by law; (4) that it was error to submit the case to
the jury before the demurrer to the fourth paragraph of the
answer was disposed of; (5) that it was error to overrule said
demurrer.
In regard to the 1st, 3d and 4th assignments, the questions
presented by them were not formally raised in the Circuit
Court, and are not presented by a bill of exceptions, and cannot
be considered here.

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

As to the 1st assignment, that respecting the insufficiency of
the information, it is supposed, by the claimant, that his motion for judgment, notwithstanding the verdict,- raises that
question. But there is no exception to the order of the court
denying that motion. There is an exception to the written
opinion of the court overruling a motion for a new trial, and
to an order made, after judgment, overruling a motion made,
after judgment, for a new trial. 'But, there is no other exception in the record. Assuming, however, that the point as to
the information can be iaised here, it is urged that the first
count, that founded on section 3257, is insufficient because the
count does not set forth the facts from which the court can
infer that Coffey defrauded or attempted to defraud the United
States. It is a sufficient answer to this objection to say, that
the claimant, in his answer, denies the allegations of the first
count, specifically, as they are made. After that, he cannot,
in a court of error, on such a record as this, be heard to say
that he did not know the charge made, and could not defend
against it, although, if he had excepted or demurred to the
count, the objection might have been presented for consideration. After a general verdict for the United States, one good
count in the information is sufficient to uphold the judgment.
Cofey v. United States, ante, 427.
The objection to the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court is overruled, in accordance with the decision in Cofey v. United
States, ante, 4.27.
The principal question is as to the effect of the indictment,
trial, verdict and judgment of acquittal set up in the fourth
paragraph of the answer. The information is founded on
§§ 3257, 3450 and 3453; and there is no question, on the averments in the answer, that the fraudulent acts and attempts and
intents to defraud, alleged in the prior criminal information, and
covered by the verdict and judgment of acquittal, embraced
all of the acts, attempts and intents averred in the information
in this suit. The question, therefore, is distinctly presented,
whether such judgment of acquittal is a bar to this suit. We
are of opinion that it is.
It is true that § 3257 dfter denouncing the single act of a dis-

COFFEY v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

tiller defrauding or attempting to defraud the United States of
the tax on the spirits distilled by him, declares the consequences
of the commission of the act to be (1) that certain specific property shall be forfeited: and (2) that the offender shall be fined
and imprisoned. It is also true that the proceeding to enforce
the forfeiture against the re&named must be a proceeding in i'em
and a civil action, while that to enforce the fine and imprisonment must be a criminal proceeding, as was held by this court
in The Palmyra, 12 Wheat., 1, 14. Yet, where an issue raised as
to the existence of the-act or fact denounced has been tried in
a criminal proceeding, instituted by the United States, and a
judgment of acquittal has been rendered in favor of a particular person, that judgment is conclusive in favor of such person,
on the subsequent trial of a suit in rem by the United States,
where, as against him, the existence of the same act or fact is
the matter in issue, as a cause for the forfeiture of the property
prosecuted in such suit in rem. It is urged as a reason for
not allowing such effect to the judgment, that the acquittal in
the criminal case may have taken place because of the rule requiring guilt to be proved beyond a reasonable doubt, and that,
on the same evidence, on the question of preponderance of proof,
there might be a verdict for the United States, in the suit in,
r' em. Nevertheless, the fact or act has been put in issue and
determined against the United States; and all that is imposed
by the statute, as a consequence of guilt, is a punishment therefor. There could be no new trial of the criminal prosecution
after the acquittal in it; and a subsequent trial of the civil suit
amounts to substantially the same thing, with a difference only in
the consequences following a judgment adverse to the claimant.
When an acquittal in a criminal prosecution in behalf of the
Government is pleaded, or offered in evidence, by the same
defendant, in an action against him by an individual, the rule
does not apply, for the reason that the parties are not the same;
and often for the additional reason, that a certain intent must
be proved to support the indictment, which need not be proved
to support the civil action. But upon this record, as we have
already seen, the parties and the matter in issue are the same.
Whether a conviction on an indictment under § 3257 could

OCTOBER TERM, 18S5.
Opinion of the Court.

be availed of as conclusive evidence, in law, for a condemnation,
in a subsequent suit in rem under that section, and whether a
judgment of forfeiture in a suit in.rem under it would be conelusive evidence, in law, for a conviction on a subsequent indictment under it, are qrestions not now presented.
The conclusion we have reached is in consonance with the
-principles laid down by this court in Gelston v. Hoyt, 3 W heat.,
246. In that case Hoyt sued Gelston, the collector, and
Schenck, the surveyor, of the port of :New York, in trespass,
for taking and carrying away a vessel. The defendants pleaded
that they had seized the vessel, by authority of the President,
as forfeited for a violation of the statute against fitting out a vessel to conimit hostilities against a friendly foreign power, .and
that she had been so fitted out and was forfeited. At the trial it
was shown, that, after seizure, the vessel was proceeded against
by the/ United States, by libel, in the United States District
Court, for the alleged offence, and Hoyt had claimed her, and
she was acquitted, and ordered to be restored, and a certificate
of reasonable cause of seizure was denied. The defendants
offered to prove facts showing the forfeiture. The trial Court
excluded the evidence. In this court, the question was presented whether the sentence of the District Court, was or was
not conclusive on the defendants, on the question of forfeiture:
This court held that the sentence of acquittal, with a denial
of a certificate of reasonable cause of seizure, was conclusive
evidence that no forfeiture was incurred, and that the seizure
was te( dious; and that these questions could not again be litigated in any forum.
This doctrine is peculiarly applicable to a case like tie present, where, in both proceedings, criminal and civil, the United
States are the party on one side and this claimant the party on
the other. The judgment of acquittal in the criminal proceeding ascertained that the facts which were the basis of that proceeding, and are the basis of this one, and which are made by
the statute the foundation of any punishment, personal or pecuniary, did not exist. This'was ascertained once for all, between the United States and the claimant, in the criminal
proceeding, so that the facts cannot be again litigated between

COFFEY v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

them, as the basis of any statutory punishment denounced as a
consequence of the existence of the facts. This is a necessary
result of the rules laid down in the unanimous opinion of the
judges in the case of Rex v. Duchess of .Kingston, 20 Howell's
State Trials, 355, 538, and which weee formulated thus: The
judgment of a court of concurrent jurisdiction, directly upon
the point, is, as a plea, a bar, or, as evidence, conclusive, be-,
tween the same parties, upon the same matter, directly in question in another court; and the judgment of a court of exblusive
jurisdiction, directly upon the point, is, in like manner, conclusive upon the same matter, between the sameparties, coming
incidentally in question in another court for a different purpose. In the present case, the court is the same court, and had
jurisdiction, and the judgment was directly on the point now
involved, and between the same parties.
In a case before Mr. Justice Miller and Judge Dillon, United
States v. 3fcKi-'e, 4 Dillon, 128, the defendant had been convicted and punished under a section of the Revised Statutes,
for conspiring with certain distillers to defraud the United
States, by unlawfully removing distilled spirits without payment of the taxes thereon. He was afterwards sued in a civil
action by the United States, under another section, to recover
a penalty of double the amount of the taxes lost by the conspiracy and fraud. The two alleged transactions were but one;
and it was held that the suit for the penalty was barred by the
judgment in the criminal case. The decision was put on the
ground that the defendant could not be twice punished for the
same crime, and that the former conviction and judgment were
a bar to the suit for the penalty.
There ought to have been a judgment for the claimant on the demurrer to the fourth paragraph of the answer, notwithstanding
the verdict, and, as the facts set forth in that paragraph were
admitted by the demurrer, and constituted a defence to the suit,
The juIgnent of the Circuit Courtis reversed, and the case is
reemandedto that court, with a direction to enter a judgment
for the claimant, dismissing the information, and to take
8uchproceedengs in regardto restoringthepropertyattached
as ,may be proper and not inconsistentwith this opinion.

