CANNON v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of Facts.

the first time after the judgment, on a petition for rehearing.
Such a petition is no part of the record on which the judgment
rests."
The motion to disms8for want ofj'risdictiorn i* granted.

OANNON v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE SUPREM!E COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF UTAH.
Argued November 20, 23, 1885.-Decided December 14,1885.

The offence of cohabiting with more than one woman, created by § 8 of the act
of Congress of March 22, 1882, ch. 47, 22 Stat. 81, in regard to polygamy
in the Territory of Utah, is committed by a man who lives in the same
house with two women, and eats at their respective tables one-third of his
time, or thereabouts, and holds them out to the world, by his language or
conduct, or both, as his wives, and it is not necessary to the commission of
the offence that he and the two women, or either of them, should occupy
the same bed or sleep in the same room, or tbt he should have sexual intercourse with either of them.
An indictment under that section charged amale person with having unlawfully
cohabited with more than one woman, continuously, for a specified time,
naming two women, but did not allege that he was a male person, nor that
he cohabited with the women as wives, or as persons held out as wives. The
statute provides that- if any male person

.

.

. hereafter cohabits with

more than one woman, he shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor." The
defendant pleaded not guilty: Held,
1. Under the Criminal Procedure Act of Utah, of February, 22, 1878, Laws
of 1878, p. 91, objections taken to the indictment after a jury was
sworn, that it did not contain the allegations before mentioned, were
properly overruled.
2. The word "cohabit," in the statute, means, "to live together as husband and wife," and its use in the indictment includes every element
of the offence created, as above defined ; and the allegation of cohabiting with the two women as wives, is not an extrinsic fact, but is
covered by the allegation of cohabiting with them.
8. The case of United ,"tares v. Carll, 105 U. S. 611, distinguished.

This was a writ of error to bring up for review proceedings
in the Supreme Court of the Territory of Utah, in the indict-

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

ment and conviction of the plaintiff in error for unlawfully
cohabiting with more than one woman. The facts which
make the case are stated in the opinion of the court.
.Xr. .FrandinS. Bichards for plaintiff in error.
Mtir. Solicitor-Generalfor defendant in error.
court.
Angus M. Cannon was indicted by a grand jury in the District Court of the Third Judicial District in and for the Territory of Utah, in February, 1885, for a violation of § 3 of the
act of Congress, approved March 22d, 1882, ch. 47, entitled
"An Act to amend section fifty-three hundred and fifty-two
of the Revised Statutes of the United States, in reference to
bigamy and for other purposes." 22 Stat. 31. Section I of the
act amends section 5352 of the Revised Statutes, which was a
re-enactment of § 1 of the act of July 1st, 1862, oh. 123, 12
Stat. 501; and, in order that the amendment may be understood, the original and new sections 5352 are here placed side
by side, the parts in each which differ from the other being in
italic:
M . JusticE BLcTOHFORD delivered the opinion of the

Original.

NTew.

"Every person who has a
"Every person having a husband or wife living, who mar- husband or wife living, who, in
ries another, whether married a Territory or other place over
or single, in a Territory or which the United States have
other place over which the exclusive jueridiction, hereafUnited States have exclusive ter marries another, whether
jurisdiction, is guilty of biga- married or single, and any man
my, and shall be punished by a who hereafter simultaneously,
fine of not more than five hun- or on the sam day, mamrie8
dred dollars, and by imprison- more than one woman, in a
ment for a term not more than Territory or other place over
five years; but this section which the United States have
shall not extend to any person exclusive jurisdiction, is guilty
by reason of any former mar- *ofpolygamy, and shall be pun-

CANNON v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

riage whose husband or wife
by such marriage is absent for
five successive years, and' is not
known to such person to be
living; nor 'to any person by
reason of any former marriage
which has been dissolved by
decree of a competent Court;
nor to any person by reason of
any former marriage which
has been pronounced void by
decree of a competent Court,
on the ground of nullity of the
marriage contract."

ished by a fine of not more
than five hundred dollars, and
by imprisonment for a term
of not more than five years;
but this section shall not extend to any person by reason
of any former marriage whose
husband or wife by such marriage shall have been absent for
five successive years, and is not
known to such person to be
living, and is believed by such
person to be dead, nor to any
person by reason of any former
marriage which shall have been
dissolved by a valid decree of
a competent Court, nor to any
person by reason of any former
marriage which shall have been
pronounced void by a valid decree of a competent Court, on
the ground of nullity of the
marriage contract."

Sections 2 to 8 inclusive of the act of 1882 are as follows:
"SEc. 2. That the foregoing provisions shall not affect the
prosecution or punishment of any offence already committed
against the section amended by the first section of this Act.
"SEc. 3. That if any male person, in a Territory or other
place over which the United States have exclusive jurisdiction,
hereafter cohabits with more than one woman, he shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and on conviction thereof
shall be punished by a fine of not more than three hundred
dollars, or by imprisonment for not more than six months, or
by both said punishments, in the discretion of the court.
"Sxo. 4. That counts for any or all of the offences named
in sections one and three of thi§ Act may be joined in the
same information or indictment.

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

"S E. 5. That in any prosecution for bigamy, polygamy, or

unlawful cohabitation, under any statute of the United States,
it shall be sufficient cause of challenge to any person drawn or
summoned as a juryman or talesman, first, that he is or has
been living in the practice of bigamy, polygamy, or unlawful
cohabitation with more than one woman, or that he is or has
been guilty of an offence punishable by either of the foregoing
sections, or by section fifty-three hundred and fifty-two of the
Revised Statutes of the United States, or the Act of July first,
eighteen hundred and sixty-two, entitled 'An Act to punish
and prevent the practice of polygamy in the Territories of the
United States and other places, and disapproving and annulling certain Acts of the Legislative Assembly of the Territory
of Utah;' or, second, that he believes it right for a man to
have more than one living and undivorced wife at the same
time, or to live in the practice of cohabiting with more than
one woman; and any person appearing or offered as a juror or
talesman, and challenged on either of the foregoing grounds,
may be questioned on his oath as to the existence of any such
cause of challenge, and other evidence may be introduced
bearing upon the question raised by such challenge; and this
question shall be tried by the Court. But as to the first ground
of challenge before mentioned, the person challenged shall not
be bound to answer if he shall say upon his oath that he declines on the ground that his answer may tend to criminate
himself; and if he shall answer as to said first ground, his
answer shall not be given in evidence in any criminal prosecution against him for any offence named in sections one or
three of this Act; but if he declines to answer on any ground,
he shall be rejected as incompetent.
"SEc. 6. That the President is hereby authorized to grant
amnesty to such classes of offenders guilty of bigamy, polygamy, or unlawful cohabitation, before the passage of this
Act, on such conditions and under such limitations as he shall
think proper; but no such amnesty shall have effect unless the
conditions thereof shall be complied with.
"SE. 7. That the issue of bigamous or polygamous marriages, known as Mormon marriages, in cases in which such mar-

CANNON v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

riages have been solemnized according to the ceremonies of the
Mormon sect, in any Territory of the United States, and such
issue shall have been born before the first day of January,
Anno Domini eighteen hundred and eighty-three, are hereby
legitimated.
"SFo. 8. That no polygamist, bigamist, or any person cohabiting with more than one woman, and no woman cohabiting with any of the persons described as aforesaid in this section, in any Territory or other place over which the United
States have exclusive jurisdiction, shall be entitled to vote at
any election held in such Territory or other place, or be eligible for election or appointment to or to be entitled to hold any
office or place of public trust, honor, or emolument, in, under,
or for any such Territory or place, or under the United States."
Section 9 of the act contains provisions declaring vacant
registration and election offices, and enacting that persons
shall be appointed to execute those offices, by a board of five
parsons, which is directed to canvass votes to be returned to it
for members of the legislative assembly, with the proviso,
"that said board of five persons shall not exclude any person
oth&rwise eligible to vote from the polls on account of any
opinion such person may entertain on the subject of bigamy or
polygamy, nor shall they refuse to count any such vote on account of the opinion of the person casting it on the subject of
bigamy or polygamy."
The indictment against Cannon was as follows: "The grand
jury of the United States of America within and for the district aforesaid, in the Territory aforesaid, being duly empanelled and sworn, on their oaths do find and present, that
Angus M. Cannon, late of said district, in the Territory aforesaid, to wit, on the first day of June, in the year of our Lord
one thousand eight hundred and eighty-two, and on divers
other days and continously between the said first day of June,
A.D. 1882, and the first day of February, A.D. 1885, at the
county of Salt Lake and territory of Utah, did unlawfully
cohabit with more than one woman, to wit, one Amanda Cannon and one Clara C. Mason, sometimes known as Clara C.
Cannon, against the form of the statute of the said United

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

States in such case made and provided, and against the peace
and dignity of the same."
The defendant pleaded not guilty, and the case was tried in
April, 1885, resulting in a verdict of .guilty, and a judgment
imposing a fine of $300, imprisonment in the penitentiary for
six months, and further imprisonment till the payment of the
fine.
After the jury was empanelled and sworn, and the prosecution had called a witness, the defendant objected to the giving of any evidence under the indictment, on the ground that
the indictment was defective and did not charge any criminal
offence, nor any offence under the statutes of the United States,
nor the offence described in the statute, either in the statutory
words or equivalent words, and, especially, did not show that
the person charged was a male person, and was insufficient to
warrant a verdict or support a judgment of conviction. The
court overruled the objection, and the defendant excepted.
The following proceedings then took place, as shown by the
bill of exceptions :
Clara C. Cannon, a witness called for the prosecution, was
sworn, when the defendant renewed the said objection to the
indictment, with alike ruling by the court and a like exception.
The witness testified as follows: "My full name is Clara 0. Cannon. I know the defendant. I have been his wife. I was his
wife. I was married to him about ten years ago, and have
since lived at 246 First South Street, Salt Lake City. I live
there now, and have lived in the same house since shortly after
I was married. The defendant has lived in the same house
part of the time, and in the same house during the past three
years. I have one living child, which is a child of that marriage, born January 11, 1882. I have had two other children
by that marriage, both born before the living one. In this
house I occupy two rooms on the ground floor, a parlor and a
dining-room, on the east side. My kitchen is back, not attached to my part of the house. I have occupied this part of
the ground floor since i first went to live in the house. There
is a hall running through the house on the ground floor, and
the rooms I occupy on that floor are on the east side of the

CANNON v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

hall. I know Amanda Cannon. She has lived in the same
house that I live in during the past three years. She has occupied, on the ground floor, two rooms on the west side of the
hall, beside her kitchen, which is attached to the back of the
main building, and is not the kitchen I use. I suppose Amanda
Cannon is defendant's wife. I have heard him speak of her as
his wife, as Mrs. Cannon, and she has lived in the house ever
since I went to live there. She has nine children, I think.
During the past three years, I think, all her children have been
living there at home, but not all the time. My little child
lives with me in my part of the house-I mean the child of
this marriage. The children of Amanda Cannon live with her
in hbr part of the house. During the past three years, and
prior to the month of February in this year, the defendant has
been in the habit of taking his meals with me, in my part of
the house, a portion of the time, about one-third of the time.
There were stated intervals; he took his meals with me every
third day-with me and my children- I have a son and daughter grown up, and two orphan children. He took his meals
with me and the child of this marriage and the other children
every thiid day. He took his meals with Amanda Cannon
and her family one-third of the time. He took all three of his
meals with me every third day, on week days, and on Sunday
morning he had breakfast at my house-that is, he took his
meals with me two days of each week, and also his breakfast
Sunday morning, which made one-third of the time. On Sunday he took his dinner at Sarah's, and his supper at ,Amanda's.
There are four roors on the second floor of the house used as
bed-rooms, and a hall, with two of the rooms on either side of
it. The rooms open into the hall. During the past three
years I have occupied the bed-room in the northeast corner,
and Amanda has occupied the one in the southwest corner of
the house. The defendant has occupied the bed-room in the
southeast corner. The room occupied by me as a bedroom, and
the one occupied by the defendant as a bed-room, are on the
same side of the ball, and there is no intervening room. The
house I speak of is in Salt Lake County, Utah Territory.
Cross-examined: My oldest daughter is twenty-three years old,

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

and my son twenty. I have a little girl, Clara Htardy, twelve
years old, and a little girl ten years old, who are orphans.
Their mother was a niece of mine, and, when she died, she left
them to me. These, with my little daughter Alice, three years
old past, are the members of my family. Mfy daughter Alice
was three years old last January. The tw6 orphan children
have lived with me for the last five years. Th6 two little girls
and my oldest daughter and the youngest daughter have occupied my roorn with me. We have two beds, and have all slept
in that room.
Q. State whether that state of things and that relation
with your children and the orphans continued until February
last ?
Objected to by the prosecution on the ground that it is imThe objection was
material, irrelevant, and incompetent.
argued, the prosecuting attorney announcing that the objection
was on the relevancy, materiality, and competency of the
evidence offered, and not on the ground it was not a proper
subject of cross-examination or that the offer was out of order,
but that any proof tending to show non-access was immaterial;
and defendant's counsel admitted and stated to the court that
the evidence was offered as tending to show, with other
evidence to be given, non-access during the time charged in
the indictment, and as tending to disprove any presumption of
sexual intercourse which might be raised by testimony of the
witness. The court sustained the objection, stating that the
question presented by the objection had been deemed by both
parties as being properly raised by the interrogatory objected
to; and the defendant excepted.
Q. Was Amanda Cannon married to defendant prior to the
time you was married to him?
Counsel for the prosecution objected to the question as irrelevant, incompetent, and immaterial. The court sustained
the objection, and defendant excepted to the ruling. The
following questions were severally propounded to the witness,
counsel stating that the sole purpose for which the questions
were asked was to establish sexual non-intercourse.
Q. Did you hear and know of the passage of the act of

CANNON v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

Congress usually called the "E dm unds Act," about the time it
was passed?
Q. What had been the habit of defendant prior to that time,
as to his occupation of your room and bed, and the room and
bed of Amanda Cannon?
Q. About the time of the passage of that law did he say
anything to you and the other members of the family in respect
to his intention to not violate that law, and what did he say?
Q. Did you assent to what he proposed?
Q. After that did any change occur in his habit as to occupying your room and bed, and what, if any, was the change?
Q. After March 22, 1882, has the defendant at any time
occupied your room or bed, or has he had any sexual intercourse with you?
To each of these questions the prosecuting attorney objected,
on the ground that the evidence sought was irrelevant, immaterial, and incompetent, and the objections were based solely
on these grounds, and not to the form of the questions, or
time or manner of offering the evidence. The court sustained
each objection, and to the ruling on each the defendant excepted.
George M. Cannon, a witness sworn for the prosecution,
testified: My father's name is Angus M. Cannon; he is the
defendant here. My mother's name is Sarah M. Cannon. I
have heard my father state he was married to Amanda Cannon.
Q. Have you heard your father state he was married to
Sarah Cannon?
Defendant objected to the question on the ground it is immaterial; that Sarah Cannon is not named in the indictment,
or any marriage with her charged.
The prosecuting attorney explained that he intended to show
that Sarah and Amanda Cannon were married to defendant
by the same ceremony, and that he offered the evidence to
show whom he had the right to call as a witness.
The court overruled the objection and allowed the evidence
for this purpose, and the defendant excepted to the ruling.
Witness. I have heard my father say he was married to
my mother and Amanda Cannon at one and the same time.
Angus M. Cannon, Jr., sworn for the prosecution, testified:

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

My father's name is Angus M[. Cannon and my mother's name
is Amanda Cannon. I have lived during the last three years
in the same house with my father and mother. My mother
has nine children; eight of them are living at home and have
during this period. I took my meals there and slept there on
my mother's side of the house.. Have taken my meals at the
same table with the rest of the family. My father has taken
his meals about one-third of the time at Clara's, one-third of
the time at Sarah's, and one-third of the time with my mother.
About every third day he takes his meals with my mother and
her children. There are four sleeping apartments in the
second story of the house; two on each side of the hall-way
which goes north and south, and the rooms on each side open
into the hall. During the period mentioned Clara C. Cannon
has occupied the northeast bed-room, my father has occupied
the southeast, and my mother the southwest bed-room. Crossexamined: Clara Cannon has occupied the northeast bed-room
to my knowledge five or six years.
Q. Who occupied it with herI
Objected to as immaterial, etc. Objection sustained and defendant excepted'
My father has occupied the same house with Clara and
Amanda Cannon. I have not been at home continuously for
the past three or four years. I have been away probably between five and si- months, and, with this exception, I have been
there more than three years.
Q. Do you know where your father during that time passed
his nights.
Objected to. Objection sustained, and defendant excepted
to the ruling.
The prosecution here rested.
George M. Cannon recalled for further cross-examination:
The sibstance of what my father said about his marriage to
Sarah and Amanda Cannon was, that he mfied them at the
same time. He said he married them prior to any act against
polygamy, and when he considered it legal. He penhaps stated
the year, but I don't at present recollect it. I am in my twentyfourth year.

CANNON v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

Clara C. Cannon recalled by the defendant and testified: I
am a member of what is called the Church of Latter-day Saints,
and I have been a member for twenty-four years. The defendant is also a member of that church. I don't know how long
he has been a member, but it is ever since I first knew him.
:Mrs. Amanda Cannon is a member of the same church, and has
been since I first knew her-that is, thirteen years.
Q. Was Mrs. Amanda Cannon married to the defendant
prior to ybur marriage to him?
Objected to by counsel for prosecution as irrelevant and immaterial. Objection sustained, and defendant excepted to the
ruling."
Defendant's counsel then made the following offer of proofs:
"We offer to prove by this and other witnesses to be called,
that Amanda Cannon was married to the defendadt before the
marriage with this witness; that, prior to the passage of the
Edmunds law, he had alternately occupied the sleeping-room
and bed of each; that each, with her family, occupied, and still
occupies, separate apartments, including separate dining-rooms
and kitchens; that, after the Edmunds law had passed both
Houses of Congress, and before its approval by the President,
the defendant announced to witness, Amanda, and their families, that he did not intend to violate that law, but should live
within it so long as it should remain a law, and at the' same
time assigned his reasons for so doing, and thereafter, and during the times alleged in the indictment, he did not occupy the
rooms or bed of, or have any sexual intercourse with, the witness, and to this extent, by mutual agreement, separated from
the witness; that, during all the time mentioned in the indictment, the two families have taken their meals in their respective dining-rooms; that defendant has taken his meals with the
witness and her family, in her dining-room, two or three days
each week, has provided for the support of the witness and
her family distinct from other family expenses, and allowed
them to occupy separate apartments in the same house occupied
by him and Amanda, and this is the extent of his relations with
the witness; and, also, that the defendant was financially unable to provide a separate house for witness and her family;
VOL. CxW--5

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

also, that the witness and family and Amanda and her family
are dependent on the defendant for their support. To this offer
and each paragraph thereof the prosecution objected, and the
objection was sustained by the court, and the defendant excepted to the ruling."
The foregoing was all the evidence given in the case. The
court instructed the jury as follows: "The indictment in this
case charges that the defendant, on the first day of June, in the
year of our Lord 1882, and on divers other days, continuously,
between said first day of June, 1882, and the first day of February, 1885, did unlawfully cohabit with more than one woman,
to wit, one Amanda Cannon and one Clara 0. Mason, sometimes known as Clara C. Cannon. [If you believe from the
evidence, gentlemen of the jury, 'beyond a reasonable doubt,
that the defendant lived in the same house with Amanda Cannon and Clara C. Cannon, the women named in the indictment,
and ate at their respective tables one-third of his time or thereabouts, and that he held them out to the world by.his language
or his conduct, or by both, as his wives, you should find him
guilty.] [It is not necessary that the evidence should show
that the defendant and these women, or either of them, occupied the same bed or slept in the same room; neither is it
necessary that the evidence should show that, within the time
mentioned, he had sexual intercourse with either of them.] I
will state, the law przsumes the defendant innocent until
proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt; that you are the
judges of the credibility of the witnesses, the weight of the evidence and of the facts, and if you find the defendant guilty you
will say in your verdict, 'We, the jury, find the defendant"
guilty in manner and form as charged in the indictment;'
and, if you find him not guilty, you will say, 'We, the jury,
find the defendant not guilty."' 1o further or other instructions were given to the jury.
The defendant excepted to the parts of the instructions which
are enclosed in brackets. He also submitted the following
prayers for instructions, each of which was separately refused,
followed by a separate exception:
"1. The offence charged is that defined in the third section

CANNON v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.
of the act of Congress entitled 'An Act to amend section 5352
of the Revised Statutes in reference to bigamy, and for other
purposes,' approved March 22d, 1882, commonly known as the
'Edmunds Act.'
"2. That section is applicable to Utah Territory, and provides that, if any male person here, since March 22d, 1882, has
cohabited with more than one woman, he shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor.
"3. This section does not apply to male persons who have at
successive periods cohabited with lawful wives, but only to contemporaneous cohabitation with two women.
"4. Cohabitation includes living together as members of one
family, a consorting in social intercourse, and eating and lodging together. They need not occupy the same bed, but there
must be an equivalent intimacy.
"5. The word ' cohabit,' in this section, is to be understood
in a technical or restricted sense. It does not apply to all persons who live with each other under one roof as members of
one family, but only to adults of different sexes who live together in the manner that husbands and wives do, including
the intimacy of occupying continuously or for recurrent periods
the same bed.
"6. (Requested if the last refused.) The word ' cohabit,' in
this section, is to be understood in a technical or special sense.
It does not apply to all persons of opposite sexes who live with
each other under one roof as members of one family, but only
to adults of different sexes living together-in the manner that
husbands and wives do. So understood, it must include a continuous or recurrent occupying of the same apartments, in the manner usual with persons of opposite sex who live in sexual intimacy.
"7. No case is within this section which dbes not include
such association of a man with two women in their mode of
living as to make it an example of immorality, by necessarily
indicating an habitual intimacy with each of two or more
women by mutual consent.
"8. The cohabitation which is made a misdemeanor by this
section is an habitual residence or dwelling by a man with two
or more women in intimate sexual relations.

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

"9. The ingredients of this offence are, first, that the person
charged be a male person; second, that he has lived or dwelt
with two women, either continuously at the same time or with
each in alternate periods of time; third, that he has so lived
with each of two or more women in such personal intimacy as
to indicate that he has had sexual intercourse with them, respectively, at his and their pleasure.
"10. The Court will interpret this Edmunds Act by its
terms, and in view of the actual situation in this Territory, of
which, the Court is judicially cognizant, and thus deduce that
Congress intended to apply a corrective to polygamy and the
anomalous status produced by its long practice.
I "11. The act is intended to prevent any future polygamous
marriages, and to prevent the -continued cohabitation of persons who are already in polygamy. The section making cohabitation a misdemeanor has special or primary application
to a cohabitation with a plurality of wives. This obvious intention indicates the ingredients of the criminal cohabitation;
that it is a living together in the sexual intimacy usual between
persons united in the marital relation, immoral in example for
not having the sanction of lawful marriage, and pernicious in
producing an illegitimate offspring.
"This Act legitimizes all children born prior to January 1,
1883; it authorizes amnesty to all offenders prior to its enactment, and thus itis shown that the Act was passed in view of
the long existence of polygamy in this Territory, and the multitudes of children born therein; it is merciful to those who
have broken the laws against polygamy, and humane and
paternal to the children born in polygamy.
"13. This Act does not command polygamous fathers to
abandon their ohildren nor to break off all communication
with their mothers. Such fathers are at liberty, and under
the strongest moral obligation, to support both. He may
hold any friendly and familiar relations, other than sexual,
naturally. incident to the proper discharge of such duties. All
his social familiarity with the mothers of such families, established prior to the passage of said Act, not shown to include
all the particulars of cohabitation as the Court has defined it,

CANNON v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

should be considered by the jury with the legal presumption of
innocence, and the failure to establish such cohabitation entitles the defendant to acquittal.
"14. The existence at the time of the passage of the Edmunds Act of a polygamous relation between the defendant
and the women mentioned in the indictment, though an illegal
relation, is not, and cannot be, made by the statute evidence
of any fact necessary to, or tending to, a conviction for violating the third section. Any enactment intended for such a
purpose would be ex postfacto and void.
"15. The law presumes innocence, and, therefore, that all
persons who were cohabiting when the Edmunds law took
effect, contrary to the provisions of that act, then ceased to
do so.
"16. No fact in the conduct of the defendant subsequent to
the passage of the Edmunds Act can be made more significant
of guilt in violating the section against cohabitation, by reason
of the existence of the polygamous relation between him and
the women mentioned in the indictment, prior to the passage
of that statute.
"17. The defendant is entitled to show his marital and parental status at the time of the passage of the Edmunds Act,
to explain his subsequent conduct toward the women mentioned in the indictment, and to show an innocent and laudable motive therefor.
"18. For this purpose, he may show that he had families of
children by said women respectively, at and prior to the passage of said Act; that such women and their children had
been and were still dependent on him for their support; that
he has continued since to support them; that he has visited
them for that purpose, and as the father of said children; and
that he has not had sexual intercourse with such women since
the passage of said Act; and no inference of cohabitation can
be drawn from the fact of such relations, from the fact of furnishing support for such mothers and children without living
with them, nor from the fact of visiting them, taking meals
with them, nor from his living in a separate suite of rooms in
the same house, belonging to himself, as that occupied by them,

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

if they occupied separate apartments and habitually lived as a
separate and distinct household; nor can such inference be
drawn from all such facts. They do not, of themselves, constitute cohabitation.
"19. There is no evidence in this case tending to show that
this defendant recognized Clara C. Cannon as his wife, or held
her out to the world as such, since the passage of the Edmunds
Bill, and within the dates named in the indictment, and without such proof the jury should acquit the defendant.
"20. If the jury find that the defendant has not held out to
the world, and announced and recognized, as his wife, the Clara
C. Cannon named in the indictment, since the passage of the
Edmunds bill, and within the dates named in the indictment,
then they should acquit the defendant.
"21. Sexual intercourse is a necessary element of the crime
of cohabitation; and, if the jury find the defendant has not
had sexual intercourse with both Clara C. and Amanda Cannon since the passage of the Edmunds bill, and within the
dates named in the indictment, then they should acquit the
defendant.
"22. In order to find the defendant guilty of the offence
charged, it must appear that the defendant had gone through
the forms of marriage with both of the women named in the
indictment, Amanda and Clara C. Cannon; that, it not appearing in this cage that he was ever married to Clara C. Cannon, the jury should acquit.
"23. If the jury find that there never was the form of marriage between Clara C. Cannon and the defendant, they should
acquit.
"24. There can be no conviction under the indictment in
this case, for the reason that there is no charge that the defendant was ever married to either Amanda or Clara C. Cannon, nor any charge that he held out either or both as his
wives."

From the judgment the defendant appealed to the Supreme
Court of the Territory, which affirmed it, and he has brought
the case to this court by a writ of error.
The principal question argued at the bar was the proper

CANNON v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

construction of § 3 of the act of 1882. That question depends
on the meaning of the word " cohabit" in the section. The
meaning contended for by the defendant is indicated by his
offer to show by Clara C. Cannon non-access, and facts to rebut
the presumption of sexual intercourse with her, and the actual
absence of such intercourse; and by the requests for instructions to the jury, which are based on the view that the word
"cohabi," necessarily includes the idea of having sexual intercourse. But we are of opinion that this is not the proper interpretation of the statute; and that the court properly charged
the jury that the defendant was to be found -uilty if he lived
in the same house with the two women, and ate at their respective tables one-third of his time or thereabouis, and held
them out to the world, by his language or conduct, or both, as
his wives; and that it was not necessary it should be shown
that he and the two women, or either of them, occupied the
same bed or slept in the same room, or that he had sexual intercourse with either of them.
This interpretation is deducible from the language of the
statute throughout. It refers wholly to the relations between
men and women founded on the existence of actual marriages,
or on the holding out of their existence. Section 1 makes it
an offence for a man or a woman, with a living wife or husband, to marry another, and calls such offence polygamy. Section 3 singles out the man, and makes it a misdemeanor for
him to cohabit with more than one woman. Section 4 provides that counts for any or all of the offences named in §§ 1
and 3 may be joined in the same information or indictment.
This certainly has no tendency to show that the cohabitation
referred to is one outside of a marital relation, actual or ostensible. So, in § 5, bigamy, polygamy, and unlawful cohabitation are classed together, and it is provided, that, in any prosecution for any one of such offences, it shall be sufficient cause
of challenge to a juror, that he has been living in the practice
of bigamy, polygamy, or unlawful cohabitation with more than
one woman, or has been guilty of an offence punishable by the
preceding sections, or that he believes it to be right for a man
fo have more than one lrvLug and undivorced wife at the same

OCTOBER TERM, 1S85.
Opinion of the Courh

time, or to live in the practice of cohabiting with more than
one woman. It is the practice of unlawful cohabitation with
more than one woman that is aimed at-a cohabitation classed
with polygamy and having its outward semblance. It is not,
on the one hand, meretricious unmarital intercourse with more
than one woman. General logislation as to lewd practices is left
to the Territorial government. lor,-on the other hand, does
the statute pry into the intimacies of the marriage relation. But
it seeks not only to punish bigamy and polygamy when direct
proof of the existence of those relations can be made, but to prevent a man from flaunting in the face of the world the ostentation and opportunities of a bigamous household, with all the
outward appearances of the continuance of the same relations which existed before the act was passed; and without
reference to what may occur in the privacy of those relations.
Compacts for sexual non-intercourse, easily made and as easily
broken, when the prior marriage relations continue to exist,
with the occupation of the same house and table and the keeping up of the same family unity, is not a lawful substitute f6r
the monogamous family which alone the statute tolerates. In
like manner, bigamy, polygamy, and unlawful cohabitation
are classed together in §§ 6 and 8 of the act. Section 6 authorizes the President to grant amnesty to persons guilty of
bigamy, polygamy, or unlawful cohabitation before the passage
of the act. Any unlawful cohabitation, under the laws of the
United States, before that time, c6uld only have been ostensibly
marital cohabitation, for the only statute on the subject was
§-5352 of the Rdvised Statutes, in regard to bigamy. Section
8 excludes from voting every polygamist, bigamist, or person
cohabiting with more than one woman, and every woman
cohabiting with any polygamist, bigamist, or person cohabiting
with more than one woman. This section was considered by
this court in .urp y v. Ram8ey, 114 U. S. 16, where Mr.
Justice Matthews, speaking for the court, in construing the
words "bigamist" and "polygamist" in that section, says:
"Jn our opinion, any man is a polygamist or bigamist, in the
sense of this section of the act, who, having previously married
one wife, still living, and having another at the time when he

CANNON v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

presents himself to claim registration as a voter, still maintains that relation to a plurality of wives, although, from the
date of the passage of the act of March 22, 1882, until the
day he offers to register and to vote, he may not in fact have
cohabited with more than one woman. Without regard to
the question whether, at the time he entered into such relation,
it was a prohibited and punishable offence, or whether, by
reason of lapse of time since its commission, a prosecution for
it may not be barred, if he still maintains the relation, he is a
bigamist or polygamist, because that is the status which the
fixed habit and practice of his living has established. He has
a plurality of wives, more than one woman whom he recognizes as a wife, of whose children he is the acknowledged
father, and whom with their children he maintains as a family,
of which he is the head. And this status as to several wives
may well continue to exist, as a practical relation, although for
a period he may not in fact cohabit with more than one; for
,that is quite consistent with the constant recognition of the
same relation to many, accompanied with a possible intention
to renew cohabitation with one or more of the others when it
may be convenient. It is not, therefore, because the person
has committed the offence of bigamy or polygamy, at some
previous time, in violation of some existing statute, and as an
additional punishment for its commission, that he is disfranchised by the act of Congress of March 22, 1882; nor because
he is guilty of the offence, as defined and punished by the
terms of that act; but because, having at some time entered
into a bigamous or polygamous relation, by a marriage with a
'second or third wife, while the first was living, he still maintains it, and has not dissolved it, although for the time being
he restricts actual cohabitation to but one. He might in fact
abstain froth actual cohabitation with all, and be still as .much
as ever a bigamisG or a polygamist. • He can only cease to be
such when he has finally and fully dissolved in some effective
manner, which we are not called on here to point out, the very
relation of husband to .wveral wives, which constitutes the.
forbidden status ho has previously assumed. Cohabitation is
but one of the many incidents to the marriage relation. It. is

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

not essential to it. One man, where such a system has been
tolerated and practised, may have several establishments, each
of which may be the home of a separate family, none of which
he himself may dwell in or even visit.

The statute makes an

express distinction between bigamists and polygamists on the
one hand, and those who cohabit with more than one woman
on the other; whereas, if cohabitation with several wives
-was essential to the description of those who are bigamists or
polygamists, those words in the statute would be superfluous
and unnecessary. It follows, therefore, that any person having
several wives is a bigamist or polygamist in the sense of the
act of March 22, 1882, although since the date of its passage
he may not have cohabited with more than one of them." p.
41. In the spirit of this interpretation, a man cohabits with
more than one woman, in the sense of § 3, 5 and 8 of the act,
when, holding out- to the world two women as his wives, by
his language or conduct, or both, be lives in the house with
them, and'eats at the table of each a portion of his time,
although he may not occupy the same bed or sleep in the same
room with either of them, or actually have sexual intercourse
with either of them. He holds two women out to the world
as his wives, by his conduct, when, being the recognized and
reputed husband of each, so understood to be by the two
wives, and by the son of one of them, and by the son of a
third reputed wife, he maintains the two wives and the
children of each, all in the same house with himself, and
regularly eats at the table of each, and acts as the head of the
two families.
This meaning of the phrase "cohabit with more than one
woman," in the statute, is in consonance with a recognized
definition of the word "cohabit. ' In Webster "cohabit" is
defined thus: "1. To dwell with; to inhabit or reside in company, or in the same place or country. 2. To dwell or live together as husband and wife." In Worcester it is defined thus:
"1. To dwell with another in the same place, 2. To live together as husband and wife." The word is never used in its
first meaning, in a criminal statute; and its second meaning is
-that to which its use in this statute has relation. The context

CANNON-v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Cdurt.

in which it is found, and the manifest evils which gave rise to
the special enactments in regard to "cohabitation," require that,
the word should have the mdaning which we have assigned to
it. Bigamy and polygamy might fail of proof, for want of
direct evidence of any marriage, but cohabitation with more
than one woman, in the sense proved in this case, was susceptible of the.proof here given; and it was such offence-as was
here proved that section 3 of the act was intended to reachthe exhibition of all the indicia of a marriage, a household, and
a family, twice repeated. However, in some divorce cases, and
in reference to a question of the condonation of adultery, the
word "cohabit" may have been used in the limited sense of
sexual intercourse, or'however its nmeaning may have been so
limited by its context in other statutes, it has no such meaning
in the statute before us.
These views of the proper construction of section 3 show
that the evidence which the court rejected was properly excluded, and that there was no error in the instructions given
to the jury, or in refusing to give those asked, aside from those
which were proper to have been given, but were covered by
the. instructions given. Nor is the charge given open to the.
objection that the paragraphs in it which follow the first are
not confined to the time laid in the indictment.
Objection is taken to the indictment because it does not allege that the defendant was a male person, § 3 making the offence it specifies punishable only when committed by a male
person. By the Criminal Procedure Act of the Territory of
Utah, passed February 22d, 1878, and. which was in force from
and after March 10, 1878, Laws of 1878, p. 91, it is provided.
as follows:
"SEC. 148. All the forms of pleading in criminal actions,

and the rules by which the sufficiency of pleadings is to be determined, are those prescribed by this Act.
"SEC. 149. The first pleading on the part of the people is
the indictment.
"SEC. 150. The indictment must contain:
1. The title of the action, specifying the name of the court to
which the indictment is presented, and the names of the parties;

OCTOBER TERM,

1885.

Opinion of the Court.

2. A clear and concise statement of the acts or omissions
constituting the offence, with such particulars of the time,
place, person, and property as will enable the defendant to
understand distinctly the character of the offence complained
of and answer the indictment. It must be substantially in the
following form:
Territory of Utah.
Judicial District Court. The People of the
In the
Territory of Utah against A. B.
A. B. is accused by the Grand Jury of this Court, by this
indictment, of the crime of (giving its legal appellation, such
as murder, arson, or the like, or designating it as felony or
misdemeanor), committed as follows: The said A. B., on the
-

day of

, A. D. eighteen

,

at the county of

(here set forth the act or omission charged as an offence).
"SEc. 151. It must be direct and certain as it regards:
1. The party charged;
2. The offence charged;
3. The particular circumstances .ofthe offence.
"SEC. 156. The words used in' an indictment are construed

in their usual acceptance in common language, except such
words and phrases as are defined by law, which are construed
according to their legal meaning.
"SEc. 157. Words used in a statute to define a public offence.
need not be strictly pursued in the indictment; but other
words conveying the same meaning may be used.
"S11c. 158.- The indictment is sufficient if it can be understood therefrom:
1. That it is entitled in a court having authority to receive
-it,though the name of the court be not stated:
2. That it was found by a grand jury of the district in which
the court was held;
3. That the defendant is named, or, if his name cannot be
discovered, that he is described by a fictitious name, with a
statement th~at his true name is to the jury unknown;
4. That the offence committed was within the jurisdiction *of
the court, and is triable therein;

CANNON v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

5. That the offence was committed at some time prior to the
time of finding the indictment;
6. That.the act or omission charged as the offence is clearly
and distinctly set forth, without repetition, and in such a manner as to enable the court t6 understand what is intended; and
To pronounce judgment upon a conviction, according to the
right of the case."
"SEc. 190. The only pleading on the part of the defendant
is either a demurrer or a plea."
Section 192 provides that the defendant may demur to the
indictment when it appears upon the face thereof that it does
not substantially conform to the requirements of §150; or that
the facts stated do not constitute a public offence.
Section 200 provides that when the objections mentioned in
§192 appear upon the face of the indictment, they can only be
taken by demurrer, except that the objection that the facts
stated do not constitute a public offence may be taken at the
trial, under the plea of not guilty, or, after the trial, in arrest
of judgment.
"SEc. 479. Neither a departure from the form or mode prescribed by this act in respect to any pleading or proceeding,
nor an error or mistake therein, renderi it invalid, unless it has
actually prejudiced the defendant, or tended to his prejudice, in
respect to a substantial right."
Certainly, under these provisions, the defendant, having
pleaded to the indictment and not demurred, must be held to
have understood distinctly that the charge was against a male
person, as guilty of the offence complained of, the offence being one which only a male person could commit; and the omission from the indictment of the allegation that he was a male
person could not have prejudiced him, or.tended to his prejudice, in respect to a substantial right.
The same statutory provisions apply to the objection that the
indictment contains merely a charge of unlawful cohabitation
with more than one woman, and does not allege a cohabitation
with the women as wives, or as persons held out as wives. The
defendant, having pleaded and not demurred, it must be held,
under §150, that the statement of the acts constituting the

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

offence was such as to enable him to understand distinctly the
character of the offence complained of, as that offence is now
interpreted, and to answer the indictment. The objection now
made cannot be regarded as an objection that the facts stated
do not constitute a public offence, because the statement is in
the words of the statute, and they, as is now held, have but one
meaning; and there could not have been any prejudice to the
defendant, or tendency to prejudice, in respect to a substantial
right, in not alleging any more pointedly that he cohabited
with the women as wives.
In connection with these statutory rules, § 3 of the act of
Congress makes the offence a misdemeanor. In United Sates
v. -2fillo, 1 Pet. 138, 142, it Was said by this court: "The general rdi is, that, in indictments for misdemeanors created by
statute, it is sufficient to charge the offence in the words of the
statute.

.

.

.

But in all cases the offence must be set forth

with clearness, and all necessary certainty to apprise the accused of'the crime with which he stands charged." These principles were applied to a case of misdemeanor, in United States
v. Britton, 107 U.S. 655, and an indictment was held sufficient
because it embodied the language of the statute, and that language covered every element of the crime, and thus the offence
created by the statute was set forth with sufficient certainty,
so as to give the defendant clear notice of the charge he was
called on to defend. That case was distinguished by the court
from United States v. Carll, 105 U. S. 611, as this is distinguishable. In Carll's case, the statute made it an offence to
pass a forged obligation of the United States with intent to
defraud, and the punishment was a fine and imprisonment at
hard labor. The question arose, on a motion in arrest of judgment, whether the indictment was sufficient, it setting fo.th
the offence in the language of the statute, without further
alleging that the defendant knew the instrument to be forged.
This court held that the offence at which the statute was aimed
was similar to the common-law offence of uttering a forged
bill; that, therefore, knowledge that the instrument was forged
was essential. to make out the crime; and that the uttering,
with intent to defraud, of an instrument in fact counterfeit,

CAINON v. UNITED STATES.
Dissenting.Opinion: Miller, Field, JJ.

but supposed by the defendant to be genuine, though within
the words of the statute, would not be within its meaning and
object. The omitted- allegation in that case-a knowledge of
the forgery-was a separate, extrinsic fact, not forming part
of the intent to defraud, or of the uttering, or of the fact of
forgery; and, in the absence of that allegation, it was held
that no crime was charged, In other words, the case was of
the class provided for under the Utah statute, where the facts
stated do not constitute a public offence. This, as has been
shown, is not that case. The word "cohabit" has, in the statute, a definite meaning, including every element of the offence
created, as before defined. The allegation of cohabiting with
the two women as wives is not an extrinsic fact, but is covered
by the allegation of cohabiting with them.
A strong appeal was made, in argument, to this court, not
to uphold the rulings of the trial court, because that would
require a polygamous husband not only to cease living with
his plural wives, but also to abandon the women themselves;
and this court was asked to indicate what the conduct of the
husband toward them must be in order to conform to the
requirements of the law. It is sufficient to say, that, while
what was done by the defendant in this case, after the passage
of the act of Congress, was not lawful, no court can say, in
advance, what particular state of things will be lawful, further
than this, that he must not cohabit with more than one woman,
in the sense of the word "cohabit," as hereinbefore defined.
While Congress has legitimated the issue of polygamous marriages, born before January 1, 1883, and thus given to such
issue claims upon their father which the law will recognize and
enforce, it has made no enactment in respect to any rigLt or
status of a bigamous or polygamous wife. It leaves the conduct of the man toward her to be regulated by considerations
which, outside of § 3, are not covered by the statute, and which
must be dealt with judicially, when properly presented.
udgrnent afl rmed.
MILLER, 5., with whom concurred AIR. J-USTIOn FiELD.-I dissent from the judgment of the court in this case.

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Syllabus.

I think that the act of Congress, when prohibiting cohabitation with more than one woman; meant unlawful habitual
sexual intercourse.
It is, in my opinion, a strained construction of a highly penal
statute to hold that a man can be guilty, under that statute,
without the accompaniment of actual sexual connection.
I know of no instance in which the word cohabitation has
been used to describe a criminal offence where it did not imply
sexual intercourse.'
MR. JusnIo FIELv concurs with me.

ROBERTS v. REILLY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTR!ICT OF GEORGIA.
Argued November 20, 1885.-Decided December 14,1885.

Appeals. in cases of habeas corpus from the final decision of a District Court,
or of a judge thereof, may, within the discretion of the court or judge, be
sent to the appellate tribunal, at a term of the Circuit Court current at the
time when the appeal is taken, under regulations adapted to secure justice.
An Appeal from the final decision of a District Court or of a judge thereof in a
habeas corpus case may be heard by the Circuit Justice at chambers, when it
appears that the order therefor is made without objection, and for the convenience of parties, and that the parties appear and are heard and no objection is taken at the hearing, and that no hardship or injustice follows. An
objection thereto under these circumstances is too late if taken for the first
time in this court.
On the application of an alleged fugitive from justice (detained under authority of the executive of the State where he is found in order to be surrendered
to the executive of the State in whichthe crime is alleged to have been committed), to be discharged on a writ of habeas corpus, it is a question of law,
whether he is substantially charged with the commission of a crime against
the laws ofthe latter State ; but the question whether he is a fugitive from
justice is one of fact, the decision of which by tile governor of the State in
which he is found is sufficient to justify the removal-at least until overthrown by contrary proof.
The question whether a corporation is capable in law of ownership of property,
the subject of a larceny charged, is not a question which can be raised in
proceedings in habeas corpus for the 'discharge of an alleged fugitive from
justice held for surrender to the executive of the State in which the crime
is alleged to have beer. committed.

