OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

SIMMR MAN v. NEBRASKA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEBRASK.
Submitted December 8, 188.-Decided December 7, 1885.

This court is without jurisdiction over a case brought here on error from a
State court, unless it appears in the record that the Federal question was
raised in that court before the entry of a final judgment in the case.

This was a motion to dismiss the writ of error for want of
jurisdiction.
.&r. William Leese, Attorney-General of :Nebraska, and Ar.
Enock Totten for the motion.
The plaintiff in error in person opposing.
also filed a brief for same.

-r.

L. C. Burr

Mr.. Cnmn JUSTioE WAiTE delivered the opinion of the court.
It nowhere appears from this record, either in the application
fora change of venu6, or in the objections to the admissiblity
of evidence, to the charge of the court as given, or to the refusals to charge as requested, or in the motion for a new trial,
the assignment of errors in the Supreme Court of the State, or
the opinion filed in that court, that any Federal question was
actually presented for consideration or in any way relied on
before the final judgment from which the writ -of error has
been taken. Such being the case, we cannot take jurisdiction.
-DetroitRailway Co. v. Guthard, 114 U. S. 133; Brorn v.
Colorado,106 U. S.95. The fact that, after the final judgment,
and in the petition for a writ of error to this court, which seems
td have been treated also as a petition for rehearing, a Federal
question was presented is not enough. It was so decided in
Susuehanna Boom Co. v. West Branch Boom Co., 110 U. S. 57.
As was said in that case: "Wd act on the case as made to the
court below when the judgment Was rendered, and cannot incorporate into the record any new matter which appears for

CANNON v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of Facts.

the first time after the judgment, on a petition for rehearing.
Such a petition is no part of the record on which the judgment
rests."
The motion to disms8for want ofj'risdictiorn i* granted.

OANNON v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE SUPREM!E COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF UTAH.
Argued November 20, 23, 1885.-Decided December 14,1885.

The offence of cohabiting with more than one woman, created by ยง 8 of the act
of Congress of March 22, 1882, ch. 47, 22 Stat. 81, in regard to polygamy
in the Territory of Utah, is committed by a man who lives in the same
house with two women, and eats at their respective tables one-third of his
time, or thereabouts, and holds them out to the world, by his language or
conduct, or both, as his wives, and it is not necessary to the commission of
the offence that he and the two women, or either of them, should occupy
the same bed or sleep in the same room, or tbt he should have sexual intercourse with either of them.
An indictment under that section charged amale person with having unlawfully
cohabited with more than one woman, continuously, for a specified time,
naming two women, but did not allege that he was a male person, nor that
he cohabited with the women as wives, or as persons held out as wives. The
statute provides that- if any male person

.

.

. hereafter cohabits with

more than one woman, he shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor." The
defendant pleaded not guilty: Held,
1. Under the Criminal Procedure Act of Utah, of February, 22, 1878, Laws
of 1878, p. 91, objections taken to the indictment after a jury was
sworn, that it did not contain the allegations before mentioned, were
properly overruled.
2. The word "cohabit," in the statute, means, "to live together as husband and wife," and its use in the indictment includes every element
of the offence created, as above defined ; and the allegation of cohabiting with the two women as wives, is not an extrinsic fact, but is
covered by the allegation of cohabiting with them.
8. The case of United ,"tares v. Carll, 105 U. S. 611, distinguished.

This was a writ of error to bring up for review proceedings
in the Supreme Court of the Territory of Utah, in the indict-

