IRON SILVER MINING CO. v. CHEESMAN.

529

Syllabus.

the character of property which, according tW the principles
herein laid down, is taxable. But granting all this, it may still
be pertinently asked, How can property thus situated,, to wit,
deposited or stored at the place of entrep6t for future exportation, be taxed in the regular way as part of the property of the
State? The answer is plain. It can be taxed as all othei property is taxed, in the place where it is found, if taxed, or assessed
for taxation, in the usual manner in which such property is.
taxed; and not singled out to be assessed by itself in an unusual and exceptional manner because of its destination. It
thus taxed, in the usual way that other similar property is
taxed, and at the same rate, and subject to like conditions and
regulations, the tax is valid. In other words, the right to tax
the property being founded on the hypothesis that it is still a
part of the general mass of property in the State, it must be
treated in all respects as other property of the same kind is
treated.
These conditions we understand to have been complied with
in the present case. At all events there is no evidence to show.
that the taxes were not imposed in the regular and ordinary
way. As the presumption, so far as mode and manner are concerned, is always in favor of, and not against, official acts, the
want of evidence to the contrary must be regarded as evidence
in favor of the regularity of the assessment in this case.
The judgment of the Supreme -Court of New Hampshire is
Afflrmed.

IRON SILVER MINING COMPANY v. CHEESMAN
& Another.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF

THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

DISTRICT OF COLORADO.
Argued December 18, 21, 1885.-Decided January25, 1886.

The act 'of Congress, ยง 2322 Revised Statutes, gives to the owner of a mineral
vein or lode, not only all that is covered by the surface lines of his established claim as those linda are extended vertically, but it gives him the right
VOL. cxvI-34

-530

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

to possess and enjoy that lode or vein by following it when it passes outside
of those vertical lines laterally.
But this right is depentlant, outside of the lateral limits of the claim, upon its
being the same vein as that within those limits. For the exercise of this
right it must appear that the vein outside is identical with and a continuation of the one inside those lines.
The acts of Congcess use the words vein, lode, or ledge as embracing a more or
less continuous body of mineral, lying within a well-defined boundary of
other rock, in tbe mass within which it is found, or, it may be said, to be a
body of mineral, or a mineral body of rock within defined boundaries in this
general mass.
A vein is by no means always a straight line or of uniform dip or thickness,
or richness of mineral matter, throughout its course. The cleft or fissure in
which a vein is found may be narrowed or widened in its course, and even
closed for a few feet and then found further on, and the mineral deposit
may be diminished or totally suspended for a short distance, but, if found
again in the same course with the same mineral within that distance, its
identity may be presumed.
But if the mineral disappears, or the fissure with its walls of the same rock disappears, so that its identity can no longer be traced, the right to pursue it
outside of the perpendicular lines of claimants' surVey is gone.
Whether any deposit of mineral matter, about which a contest arises before a
courtor jury, has been shown to belong to one of these veins within a prior
location, is a question to be decided by the application of these principles t
all the evidence in the case.
When the court instructs the jury in a manner sufficiently clear and sound as
to the rules applicable to the case, it is not bound to give other instructions
asked by counsel on the same subject, whether they are correct or not.

This was an action in ejectment to recover possession of mineral lands in Colorado. The facts which make the case are
stated in the opinion of the court.
IA&. Walter H Smith and ,r.G. G. Syme8 for plaintiff in
error.
-Mr. C. S. Thomas for defendants in error.
terson was with him on the brief.

ff-. T.

.Pat-

IMR. JUSTICE MI'ILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
The Iron Silver Mining Company brought its suit in the
nature of an action of ejectment against Walter S. Cheesman,
Walter S. Clarke, and Thomas Bennett,,to recover possession
of a part of a vein or lode of mineral deposit, the right to whih

IRON SILVER MINING CO. v. CHEESMAN.

531

Opinion of the Court.

it asserted under a patent from the United States. The action
was commenced in the Circuit Court of the United States for
the District of Colorado. The defendants denied the title ,of
the plaintiff to the vein at the point in controversy, and though
they did not assert a claim under a patent, they did show such
proceedings under the mining laws of the United States as justified their possession, unless plaintiffs had a better right.
There were three trials by jury in the case. The first resulted
in a verdict in favor of the defendants. That was set aside and
a new trial ordered under the statute of Colorado, which gives
the unsuccessful party in such actions an absolute right to this
second trial. The second trial failed by reason of a divided
jury; and on the third trial the verdict was again for the
defendants. It is to review the judgment rendered on this verdict that the present writ of error is taken.
The plaintiff relies on the accepted proposition, that the
owner of a mineral vein covered by the superficial lines of his
claim may not only pursue that vein perpendicularly within
those lines, but may, when the vein passes beyond the side lines
of this claim or survey, pursue that vein outside of a line drawn
vertically from the superficial side lines, as far as the vein extends.
In pursuit of what is asserted to be a continuation of the vein
on which its patent is located, but outside of the perpendicular
of its side lines, the Iron Silver Mining Company, owning what
it called the Lime lode and mining claim, came into collision
with defendants, who were working the lode which they called
the Smuggler. Of course the defendants, being in possession, could only be deprived of that possession by virtue of a
superior title in the plaintiff. As the exterior surface lines of
plaintiff's patent, when extended vertically to the plane of this
deposit, did not include the piece of mineral which is the subject of this controversy, plaintiff could only recover by showing that this was a part of the same vein which his patent did
cover, which, passing from his side lines, was such a continuation of that vein as gave the right to pursue it.
It seems to have been conceded throughout the long trials in
the case, that if plaintiff could establish the sufficiency and con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

tinuity of his Lime lode, so as to make the defendants' Smuggler lode identical with it, he was entitled to recover; and on
the other hand, if he did not do this, he had no right to the
Smuggler lode, which was in that case a different lode, outside
of the vertical extension of plaintiff's side lines.
This involved the consideration of the true definition of a
lode or vein as used in the acts of Congress on the subject, and
under what circumstances of continuity and of interruption a
vein may be followed in the surrounding rock in which it is
found, sb as to preserve its identity.
On this subject a large nass of testimony was given to the
jury, and to this point the charge of the court was directed.
If there were exceptions taken to the admission of any of
this evidence, or to the refusal to admit other evidence, no assignment of error is based upon such admission or refusal; but
the errors assigned relate solely to the charge given by the
court to the jury, and to the refusal to give twenty-eight several
instructions asked by the counsel of plaintiff.
As we have already said, the only question for the jury, the
one on which their verdict depended, was whether plaintiff had
identified the Lime lode or vein, and traced it continuously
from its connection, inside of the lines of its patent, as the same
vein in which defendants were working under the name of the
Smuggler lode.
As the charge of the court was very full and clear as to the
rules of law by which this was to be determined, there is no
occasion to inquire into the soundness of each of the twentyeight propositions of plaintiff on the same subject. If any of
these propositions were covered by the charge made by the
court, there was no obligation on the judge to repeat it in the
language of counsel. If there was a conflict in the law as ]aid
down by the court and that requested by plaintiff's prayer for
instructions, the correctness of the charge of the court is raised
by the exceptions to that charge, and can be best considered in
these exceptions. C nymer v. Dawkins, 3 How. 674, 689;
.fillv. Smith, 8 Wall. 27; Indanapols c St. Louis Railroad
Co. v. H~orst, 93 U. S. 291 ; Continental lmpi'ovement Co. v.
Stead, 96 U. S. 161.

IRON SILVER MINING CO. v. CHEESMAN.

533

Opinion of the Couwt.

The act of Congress which confers the right under whic 1
plaintiff claims is in the following language of the Revised
Statutes:
"SiEc. 2322. The locators of all mining locations heretofore
made, or which shall hereafter be made, on any mineral vein,
lode, or ledge, situated on the public domain, their heirs and.
assigns, where no.tdverse claim exists on the tenth day of ray,
eighteen" hundred and seventy-two, so long as they comply
with the lawg of the United States, and with state, territorial,
and local regulations, not in conflict with the laws of the United
States governing their possessory title, shall have the exclusive
right of possession and enjoyment of all the surface included
within the lines of their locations, and of all veins, lodes, and
ledges throughout their entire depth, the top or apex of which
lies inside of such surface lines extended downward vertically,
although such veins, lodes, or ledges may so far depart from a
perpendicular in their course downward 'as to extend outside
the vertical side lines of such surface locations. But their right
of possession to such outside parts of such veins or ledges shall
be confined to such portions thereof as lie between vertical
'planes drawn downward, as above described, through the end
lines of their locations, so continued in their own direction tha
such planes will intersect such exterior parts of such veins or
ledges. And nothing in this section shall authorize the locator
or possessor of a vein or lode which extends in its downward
course beyond the vertical lines of his claim to enter upon the
surface of a claim owned or possessed by another."
It is obvious that the vein, lode, or ledge of which the loca.
tor may have "the exclusive right of possession and enjoyinent" is one whose apex is found inside of his surface lines
extended vertically; and this right follows such vein, though
in extending downward it may depart from a perpendicular
and extend laterally outside of the vertical lines of such surface location.
What constitutes a lode or vein of mineral matter has been
no easy thing to define. In this court no clear definition has
been given. On the circuit it has been often attempted. Mr
Justice Field, in the Eureka Case, 4 Sawyer, 302, 311, shows

OCTOBER

TERM, 1885.

Opinion of the Court.

-"that the word is' not always used in the same sense by scientific works on geology and mineralogy, and by those engaged
in the actual working of mines. After discussing these sources
of information, he says:
"It is difficult to give any definition of the term as understhod and used in the acts of Congress which will not be subject to-criticism. A fissure in the earth's crust, an opening in
its rocks and strata made by some force of nature, in which
the mineral is deposited, would seem to be essential to a lode
in the judgment of geologists. But, to the practical miner, the
fissure and its walls are only of importance as indicating the
boundaries within which he may look for and reasonably
expect to find the ore he seeks. A continuous body of
mineralized rock lying within any other well-defined boundaries on the earth's surface and under it, would equally constitute, in his eyes, a lode. We are of opinion, therefore, that the
term as used in the acts of Congress is applicable to any zone
or lelt of mineralized rock lying within boundaries clearly
separating it from the neighboring rock."
This definition has received repeated commendation in other
cases, especially in Stevens v. Williams, 1 MeCrary, 480, 488,
where a shorter definition by Judge Hallett, of the Colorado
Circuit Court, is also approved, to wit: "In general it may be
said, that a lode or vein is a body of mineral, or mineral body
of rock, within defined boundaries, in the general mass of the
mountain."
This lode, ledge, or vein, which may thus be possessed and
enjoyed outsidre of the limits of the surface side lines extended
vertically, must be the same vein or lode on the apex or outcrop of which the claim of the party has been located. He
can only go outside of this imaginary perpendicular wall to
possess or enjoy a vein which, being U8 inside of that artificial
line, he has the right to follow or pursue in its extension
outside of these lines. The identity of the vein is, therefore,
essential to his right to its possession there.
Now, a vein containing the precious metals is by no means
always a straight line of uniform dip, or thickness, or richness
of mineral matter throughout its course. Generally, the veins

IRON SILVER MININg CO. v. CHEESIAN.
Opinion of the Court.

are found in what, when the -mineral is taken out of them, constitute clefts or fissures in the .surrounding rock, with a welldefined wall above and below of different kinds of rocki as
porphyry on one side, above or below, and limestone on the
other.
So long as these enclosing walls can be distinctly and continuously traced, and the mineral matter of the same character
found between them, there can be no doubt that it is the same
vein. But sometimes the cleft between the enclosing rocks,
called in mining parlance the country rock, diminishes so as to,
be scarcely perceptible. Sometimes for a short distance the
fissure disappears entirely and again is found distinctly to exist
a little further on. Again it is seen that, though the underlying and superposing country rock is there, the mineral deposit
ceases to be found, but, following the fissure, it reappears again
very soon.
It also happens that both fissure and mineral come to an end
and are found no more in that direction, or, if found, so far
off, or so deflected from the original line as to constitute no"
part of that vein.
Of course it is sometimes easy to see that it is the same vein
all through. It is also easy to see in some instances that the
vein is run out; is ended.
But there are other cases of a class of which that before us
is one, where it is a matter of extreme difficulty to lay down,
such rules for the guidance of the jury as will best aid them in
arriving at a just verdict.
We are not able to see how the judge who presided at the
trial of the case could have better discharged this delicate task
than he has in the charge before us to which the exceptions
are taken, and we give here verbatim that part of it relating
to this point, as found in the bill of exceptions:
"Upon the evidence before you, these parties are to be regarded as owning the surface of the land by them respectively
claimed, and all that rightfully goes with the surface under the
law. No question is presented as to the right of the plaintiff
to the Lime location. Holding by patent from the Government, the plaintiff must be regarded as the owner of that claim,

OCTOBER -TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

and all lodes and veins existing therein. The statute gives the
owner of a lode, the one who may locate it at the top and apex,
the right to follow it to any depth, although it may enter the
land adjoining. And if the Lime location was made on a lode
or vein which descends from thence into the Smuggler location,
the right of the plaintiff to follow the lode into the Smuggler
ground and to take out ore therefrom cannot be denied. Thus,
the principal question for your consideration is, whether there
is a lode or vein in the Lime location which extends from that
claim into the Smuggler claim? If a lode is found in that
claim, all the evidence tends to prove that the top and apex of
such lode is in that claim. There is no room for controversy
on that point. To determine whether a lode or vein exists, it
is necessary to define those terms; and, as to that, it is enough
to say that a lode or vein is a body of mineral, or mineral:bearing rock, within defined boundaries in the general mass of the
mountain. In this definition the elements are the body of
mineral or mineral-bearing rock and the boundaries; with either
of these things well established, very slight evidence may be
accepted as to the existence of the other. A body of mineral
or mineral-bearing rock in the general mass of the mountain,
so far as it may continue unbroken and without interruption,
may be regarded as a lode, whatever the boundaries may be.
In the existence of such body, and to the extent of it, boundaries are implied. On the other hand, with well-defined boundaries, very slight evidence of ore within such boundaries will
prove the existence of a lode. Such boundaries constitute a
fissure, and if in such fissure ore is found, although at considerable intervals and in small quantities, it is called a lode or vein.
To maintain the issue on its part, the plaintiff must prove that
a lode as here defined extends from the Lime to and into the
Smuggler claim.
"Reverting to that definition, if there is a continuous body
of mineral or nineral-bearing rock extending from one claim to
the other, it must be that there are boundaries to such body and
the lode exists. Or if there is a continuous cavity or opening
between dissimilar rocks in which ore in some quantity and
value is found, the lode exists. These propositions are cor-

IRON SILVER MIING CO. v. CHEESMAN.

537

Opinion of the Court.

relative and nQt very .different in meaning, except that the first
gives prominence to the mineral body, and the second to the
boundaries.
"Proof of either proposition goes far to establish a lode, and
it may be said without proof of one of them a lode cannot exist.
The proposition of the plaintiff is that the evidence before you
shows that a lode exists in the ground in controversy as already
defined. The defendants deny that proposition, and the case
turns on that question. They concede that there is, in the
territory open by the works, ore in detached masses or fragments, but so intermingled with the enclosing rocks that it cannot be regarded as a continuous body; or as marking the line
of a lode or vein. All that has been said by witnesses about
rock in place is valuable only as it tends to prove or disprove
the existence of a crevice or opening extending from one claim
to the other. Excluding the wash, slide, or debris on the surface of the mountain, all things in the mass of the mountain are
in place. A continuous body of mineral or mineral-bearing
rock, extending through loose-and disjointed rocks, is a lode as
fully and certainly as that which is found in more regular
formation; but if it is not continuous, or is not found in a
crevice or opening which is itself continuous, it cannot be
called by that name. In that case it lacks the individuality
and extension which is an essential quality of a lode or vein.
Recognizing this, the plaintiff has given evidence to establish
the existence of porphyry and lime in regular order with an
opening between them, filled with vein matter.
"The defendants sought to show that the ground is broken
and disjointed, and the several parts so intermingled that no
lode can extend from one claim to the other.
"It is a question to be decided by the weight of testimony
rather than the number of witnesses; upon the effect which
the testimony has on your minds, accepting that which seems
to you to be worthy of belief and rejecting the other. And
that I believe, gentlemen, is the one and the only question in
the case. "If you find it affirmatively, of course you will
return your verdict for the plaintiff, and if in the negative, you
will find for the defendants.

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Syllabus.

"And to so much of said charge as reads as follows: IBut
if it is not continuous or is not found in a crevice or opening
which is itself continuous, it cannot be called by that name.
In that case it lacks the individuality and extension which is
an essential quality of a lode or vein.' To which plaintiff's
counsel then and there excepted."
If the language here excepted to stood alone it would be cor'rect, though possibly too general or exclusive. Certainly the
lode or vein must be continuous in the sense that it can be
traced through the surrounding rocks, though slight interruptions of the mineral-bearing rock would not be alone sufficient
to destroy the identity of the vein. Nor would a short partial
closure of the fissure have that effect if a little farther on it
recurred again with mineral-bearing rock within it. And such
is the idea conveyed in the previous part of the charge. "On
the other hand," said the judge, "with well defined boundaries, very slight evidence of ore within such boundaries will
prove the existence of a lode. Such boundaries constitute a
fissure, and if in such fissure ore is fdund, alt ough at considerable intervals and in small quantitie, it is called a lode or
vein."
The charge seems to us to be as favorable to plaintiffs as the
principles we have laid down would justify.
We find no error in the record, and the judgment of the
Circuit Court is therefore
Affirmed.

OENTRAL RAILROAD COMPANY v. BOUIRBON
COUNTY.
ORiIGINAL MOTION IN A CAUSE PENDING IN ERROR TO THE COURT OF
AP'PEALS OF KENTUOKY.
Submitted January25, 1886.-Decided February 1, 1886.

Cases in which the execution of a State revenue law has been enjoined or
stayed, will be advanced only on motion of the State, or of the party claiming under the law, and on proof that the operations of the State government will be embarrassed by the delay.

