'OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

States approve such a selection and issue the proper certified
lists, and a purchaser under such a title enters into the possession of the land and improves, cultivates, and holds it, no one
by forcibly or surreptitiously getting into possession can make
a preemption settlement which will defeat his title. Atherton
v. Fowler, 96 U. S. 513, 519. As was said in that case, "The
generosity by which Congress gave the settler the right of pre6mption was not intended to give him the benefit of another
man's labor, and authorize him to turn that man or his family
out of his home. It did not propose to give its bounty to settlements obtained by violence at the expense of others. The
right to make a settlement was to be exercised on unsettled
land; to make improvements on unimproved land. To erect
a dwelling-house did not mean to seize' some other man's
dwelling."
This disposes of the claim of preemiption, and that being out
of the way it is clear that the act of March 1, 1877, confirmed
the State's title and made that of Fletcher good when the note
of Mower to him fell due, and when he was bound to convey
under his contract.
Thejiidgment in each of thw cases is affirmed.

STEBB1NS & Others v. ST. ANNE & Others.
APPEAL FROM THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
Submitted Deember 18, 1885.-Decided January I1, 188.

Two alternative claims, eacl belonging to many persons, one of whom has no
interest in one claim, and others of whom have no interest in the other
claim, cannot be joined in one bill in equity.

This was a bill in equity, filed June 25, 1884, by john
H. Stebbins, Edward G. Judson, William A. Tenney and
Sutherland Tenney, and by William D. Judson and Amos

STEBBIS v. ST. ANNE.
Sta'ement of Facts.

Tenney, lately partners with Joseph E. Young, under the
name of Joseph E. Young & Co., against the Town of St.
Anne, the Chicago, Danville and Vincennes Railroad Company, and the receiver of that company, to obtain payment of
bonds to the amount of $30,000, issued by the town, under

statutes of the State of Illinois, to aid in the construction of
the railroad of that company. The facts alleged in the bill, so
far as necessary to the understanding of the decision, were as
follows:
In February, 1869, the railroad company entered into a contract with Joseph E. Young & Co. to construct its railroad
from Danville through St. Anne an 1 other towns to Chicago,
and thereby agreed to assign and did assign to the contractors
all donations, bonds or aids which might be contributed by
municipalities along the line of the railroad. The contractors
fulfilled their contract and completed the construction of the'
road before December 1, 1871.
In June, 1869, the town voted to raise by tax a subsciiption
of 130,000, to aid in the construction of the railroad, to be paid
in bonds of from $1000 to $5000 each, p.yable to bearer in
from one to five years, with interest at the rAte of ten per cent.
In December, 1870, the bonds were signed by the supervisor of
the town in its behalf, and, by direction of the town authorities, delivered by him to Joseph E. Young & Co., as en.titled
to the bonds under tlieir contract with the railroad cirnpany;
and were afterwards redelivered by the contyactors to him for
the purpose of being registered in the office of the auditor of
accounts at Springfield in the State of Illinois.
The supervisor, on his way to Springfield for that purpose,
stopped at his home in Su. Anne, and while there, on January
5, 1871, certain citizens of the tow ifiled a bill in equity in the
Circuit Court of Kankakee County against him and other officers of the town, upon which an injunction was granted against
the delivery of the bonds, and the bonds were placed by order
of the court in the custody of its clerk for safe keeping, and
the suit remained in court until April 4, 1876, when the bill
was dismissed and the injunction dissolved, after the case had
been taken to the Supreme Court of Illinois, and the bonds

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

declared valid by the opinion of that court, reported in Chicago,
Danville & Vincennes Railroad v. Coyer, 79 Ill. 373.
On April 7, 1876, all the bonds, except one, were taken from
the clerk of the court upon a writ of replevin obtained by the
'then supervisor of the town from a juqstice of the peace, who
had no jurisdiction of the matter; and on the next day weie
fraudulently and unlawfully burned and wholly destroyed by
the town authorities, without the knowledge or consent of the
contractors or of the railroad company.
The bill further alleged that Stebbins, Edward G. Judson,
William A. Tenney and Sutherland Tenney "are the real
equitable owners of all and singular the interests, claims and
demands of said Joseph E. Young and Company, or said railroad company, or its receiver, against the said town of St.
Anne, and in and to the bonds herein set forth; and said John
II. Stebbins is equitably entitled to one third of the claim of
said Joseph E. Young and Company against said railroad company, or the judgment against said railroad company, as herein
set forth;" and that Stebbins obtained his interest as follows:
In January, 1875, Young being insolvent, the Circuit Court of
Cook County, upon a bill filed by Stebbins as one of his creditors, appointed one Luther Pierce receiver of Young's estate,
and Young by its order conveyed to Pierce all his property for
the .benefit of his creditors. In September, 1876, that court,
on the applicatiofi of Pierce, granted an order for the sale of
said property, among which were two claims against the railroad company, one for $600,000, and the other for $300,000.
Pursuant to that order, said receiver advertised said claims, and
in November, 1876, they were sold by him and bought by
Stebbins, and a certificate therefor issued to the latter, and the
sale reported to and confirmed by the court. The report
showed that Young owned one third 6f said claims against the
railroad company. In April, 1876, in the District Court of the
United States for the Northern District of Illinois, Young was
adjudged a bankrupt, and Pierce appointed assignee of his
estate, and in March, 1877, Young was discharged. The bill
alleged that "therefore all the right and claim said Young has
to any of said claims against said railroad company or said

STEBBINS v. ST. ANNE...3

389

Statement of Facts.

town of St. Anne has 'become vested in said John H. Stebbins."
The bill then alleged that Edward G,.Judson was the equitable owner of all the interest of William D. Judson in all
claims of Joseph E. Young & Co., against the town, by virtue
of a written assignment, made by him in February, 1876, to
secure the payment of a debt.of $14,000, of all his interest, including his interest as a member of the firm of Joseph E.
Young & Co., in all claims against the town; that Williamn A.
Tenney and Sutherland Tenney obtained their interests in the
share of Amos Tenney in the assets of Joseph E. Young & Co.,
and the demand of that firm against the town, by virtue of a
like assignment made by him to them in March, 1876, to secure
the payment of a debt from him to them upon a guaidianship
account; and that therefore Stebbins, Edward G. Judsoii, William A. Tenney and Sutherland Tenney were now entitled to
all the interest of Joseph E. Young & Co. in the claim against
the town.
The bill further alleged that in November, 1877, the firm of
Joseph E. Young & Co., in an action at law upon claims growing out of the construction of the railroad, recovered judgment
against the railroad company for the sum of $588,556, and
costs; that one third of that judgment equitably belonged to
Stebbins, and the other two thirds belonged to William D.
Judson and Amos Tenney; that in December, 1817 an execution was issued on that judgment and placed in the hands of
a sheriff, and by him returned in no part satisfied; that the railroad company was in the hands of a receiver and -Was wholly
insolvent, and had no property out of which to satisfy that
judgment, or any part of it; and that no part of that'judgment,
or of the claim of Joseph E. Young & Co. against the railroad
company, had been paid.
The bill finally alleged that the town was indebted as aforesaid to the railroad company, or to Joseph E. Young & Co.
under their contract, in the sum of $30,000, and interest from
the time of the delivery of the bonds in December, 1870.
The bill prayed for process and discovery; and that Stebbins, Edward G. Judson, William A. Tenney and Sutherland

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

Tenney be decreed to be the legal and equitable owners of the
claim of Joseph E. Young & Co. against the town, and Stebbins/ be decreed to own one third of the judgment recovered as
aforesaid against the railroad company, and William D' Judson
and Amos Tenney the other two thirds of that judgment; that
Stebbins be subrogated to the rights of Young in all his claims
against the -railroad company, and Stebbins and Edward G.
Judson, William A. Tenney and Sutherland Tenney also )e
subrogated to all the rights and claims of the railroad company
and of Joseph :E. Young & Co. against the town; and that,
inasmuch as all the bonds would have been due, and the rights
of the plaintiffs and the obligations of the town were fixed,
before the commencement of this suit, and inasmuch as the
town, in equity, was now justly indebted Upon its contract to
pay the sum of $30,000, with interest, as above set forth, a
decree for the amount so due be entered against the town, to
be paid to Stebbins, Edward G. Judson, William A. Tenney
and Sutherland Tenney, as the equitable assignees of Joseph
E. Young & Co.; and for further relief.
A demurrer to the bill, for want of equity, for misjoinder of
parties, and for multifariousness, was filed by the defendants,
and was sustained for want of equity and the bill dismissed.
The plaintiffs appealed to this court.
,Mr.
Thornaas. .2aClellcnd and
appellants.

r.. ?obert .Doyle for

J.r.L. -. Payson for appellees.
MR. JusTicE GRAY delivered the opinion of the court.

* After stating the facts as above reported, he continued:
*The object of this bill is to compel the town of St. Anne to
pay-the amount of the bonds which the town issued to aid in
the construction of the railroad, and delivered to Joseph E.
Young & Co., the contractors for building the road, in accordance with the agreement between those contractors and the
railroad company.
Assuming, without deciding, that the bonds were valid

STEBBINS v. ST. ANNE.
Opinion of the Court.

obligations of the town, and that there is such a want of',
adequate remedy at law as to justify a resort to equity, nevertheless this bill cannot be maintained.
The bill, after many specific allegations, m6stly of fact, but,
including some inferences of law not supported by the facts
alleged, contains a general allegation that the town is indebted either to Joseph E. Young "& Co. or to the railroad
company in the amount of the bonds.
If, as would appear to be the result of all the allegations of,
the bill, the debt of the town upon .the bonds was to
Joseph E.Young & Co., the bill cannot be mainiai'ned without
bringing before ther court the owners of the interests of all
the members of that partnership in the debt. This has not
been done.
The three partners were Joseph E. Young,
William D. Judson and Amos Tenney. Said Judson and
Tenney, as well as Edward'G. Judson, William A. Tefney
and Sutherland Tenney, the pledgees of their interests in
the claim of their partnership against the town, are joined
as plaintiffs. But the interest of Yorng in that claim is
not represented. The sale and conveyance to Stebbins (the
only other plaintiff) from Pierce, as the receiver of -Young's
estate under insolvency proceedings in the State court,
included only Young's interest in claims against the railroad
company. The interest of Young in the claini of the partnership against the town remained in -Pierce, either as such
receiver, or as assignee under the subsequent proceedings
against 'Young under the bankrupt act of the United States;
and neither Young nor Pierce is a party to the bill.
If the alternative view is taken, and it i assumed that, there'
is a'debt of the town to the railroad company, and that Stebbins, by his purchase of'Young's interest in the claim of the
partnership against that company, and by the judgment subsequently recovered by the partnership upon that claim, acquired the right, jointly with the two other partners, to compel
the application of the sum due from the town to the railroad
company in satisfaction of that jddgment, another difficulty
arises, namely, that Edward G. Judson, William A. Tenney
and Sutherland T6nney, the pledgees of William D. Judson's

OCTOBER TERM, i8sm.
Syllabus.

and Amos Tenney's interests in the claim of the partnership
against the town, acquired no interest in the claim of the partnership against the railroad company, or in the judgment recovered upon that claim, and should not therefore be parties to
this bill.
In fine, the whole interest in any claim of the partnership
against the town was in Pierce, either as the receiver of Young's
'estate in insolvency, or as the assignee of his estate in bankruptcy, and in William D. Judson and his pledgee Edward G.
Judson, and in Amos Tenney and his pledgees William A.
Tenney and Sutherland Tenney; and no part of that interest
was in the plaintiff Stebbins. The whole interest in any claim
of the partnership against the railroad company was in Stebbins, as assignee of Youngs interest in thisclaim, and in William D. Judson and Amos Tenney; and no part of this interest
was in the plaintiffs Edward G. Judson, William A. Tenney
and Sutherland Tenney. Two alternative claims, each belonging to many persons, one of. whom has no interest in one claim,
and others of whom have no interest in the other claim,, cannot
be joined in one bill in equity.
-Decreeaffimned.

JOHNSON & Another v. WILKINS.
-ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE

UNITED STATES

FOR THE

NORTHERN DISTRICT OP FLORIDA.
Submitted January 4, 1886.-Decided January 11, 18.

The plaintiff in error having failed to show, either from the record, or by affidavits, that the matter in dispute exceeds five thousand dollars, the Court
dismisses tha writ for want of jurisdiction.

The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
.Mr. J D. Thompson for. plaintiffs in error.

Mr'. C. C. Yonqe, Ser',.for aefendant in error.

