BROWN v. GRANT.
Statement of Facts.

BROWN v. GRANT & Others.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOB
THE DISTRICT OF COLORADO.
Argued December 14, 15, 1885.-Decided January 4, 1886.

A statute of the Territory of Colorado authorized a board of managers to
receive a conveyance of a site in Denver for the Capitol of the Territory.
A., by warranty deed, conveyed a tract for such site to the board "for the
purpose of erecting a capitol and other buildings thereon only." The
Territory made no use of the tract before the admission of Colorado as a
State. After its admission, A. executed and put on record a deed annulling
the gift, and took possession of the tract, and was in possession when he
brought this suit. The bill set forth these facts, alleged that the board'
was about to take possession of the tract for the purpose of erecting buildings thereon, and prayed an injunction. All parties to the su.mt were citizens
of Colorado. Held, That if the facts raised any Federal question, they
did not show that A. was about to be deprived of his property without just
compensation.

This was an appeal from the final decree of the Circuit Court
of the United States for the District of Colorado, dismissing,
upon demurrer to the bill, a suit in equity instituted in that
court by Henry C. Brown against James B. Grant, Governor,
William H. Meyers, Lieutenant-Governor, Melvin Edwards,
Secretary of State, and D. F. Urmy, Attorney-General of the
State of Colorado, and against certain other persons constituting a Board of Managers for the erection of the capitol building for that State.
The case made by the bill was substantially as follows:
By the third section of an act of the Council and House of
Representatives of the Territory of Colorado, entitled "An act
to locate the seat of government of the Territory of Colorado,"
approved December 9, 1867, it was, among other things, provided that:
"SEC. 3. The persons appointed, as aforesaid, in section
second of this aot, shall, within sixty days after the date of
their appointment, proceed to select a site for the capitol
of said Territory, within the said city of Denver, which site
shall contain not less thah ten acres of land, and if the site so

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

selected shall be conveyed to the'Territory of Colorado by the
person or persons holding the title thereto, without charge to
said Territory, and so as to vest the title to the same, absolutely
and in fee simple, in said Territory, the site so selected shall be
and remain the property of said Territory, for the purpose of
erecting a capitol and other public buildings thereon.""
On the 11th of January, 1868, the plaintiff, by deed duly
acknowledged, conveyed to the Territory a tract of ten acres
of land, part of a larger tract owned by him in the immediate
vicinity of Denver. The consideration is stated to be one
thousand dollars paid to the grantor by the Territory, but the
land was, in fact, donated by him in the belief that the erection
thereon of the capitol and other public buildings would enhance
the v.alue of his adjoining lands. The deed contained the following recitals:
"The said land being so conveVed to said Territory in pursuance pf the act entitled ' An Act to locate the seat of government of the Territory of Colorado, approved the 9th day of
-December, A.iD. 1867,' so as to vest the title to the same
absolutely and in fee simple in said Territory, for the purpose of
erecting a capitol and other public buildings thereon only; to
have and to hold the same, together with all and singular the
appurtenances and privileges thereunto belonging or in anywise
thereunto appertaining, and all the estate, right, title, interest,
and claim whatever of the said party of the first part, either in
law or equity, to the only proper use, benefit, and behoof of the
said party of the second part, its successors and assigns forever.
"And the said party of the first part; the aforesaid parcel of
land unto the said party of the second part, its successors and
assigns, against the claim or claims of all and every person
whatsoever, he, the said Henry C. Brown, does and will warrant
and forever defend by these presents."
Contemporaneously with the execution of the deed, the
legislative assembly of the Territory adopted a memorial to
Congress, asking, for reasons therein stated, a liberal appropriation for the erection of suitable capitol buildings for the use
of the Territory. By an act of. the Territorial legislature,
approved February 9, 1872, it was directed that proposals be

BROWN v. GRANT.

209

Statement of Facts.
received for the erection of a capitol building, and that it "be
erected upon the .ground heretofore donated to the Territory
for that purpose by Henry 0. Brown." ,On the. sameK day
another memorial to Congress was adopted asking an appropriation of $100,000, collected from internal revenue taxes Within
'the Territory, for the purpose of assisting in the erection of a.
capitol building at the seat of .government of the Territory.
Thereafter, on the 13th of February, 1874, another aot was
passed providing for the appointmeiit of capitol commissioners,
with authority to have the custody of, and to expend in the improvement of the capitol grounds, and in the erection of capitolbuildings thereon, money appropriated or donated for that
purpose; to sell all lands and lots donated for capitol purposes, except the capitol site, the money so raised to be used in
the erection of a capitol building or buildings, to be completed,.
paid for, and delivered to the Territory on or before January 1,
1876.
The bill alleged that the Territory of Colorado did, on or
about the 1st day of August, 1876, "depart this life," and on
the same day, "by proclamation of U. S. Grant, the then
President of the United States of America, the State of Colorado was admitted into the Union," the "said Territory never
having during its life occupied or made use of said tract of land
donated to it by your orator, either for the purpose of erecting
capitol or other public buildings thereon, or for any other purpose whatsoever."
The Constitution adopted by the people of Colorado under
the Enabling Act of Congress provided that the general assembly should not change or locate the seat of government of the
State, but at its first gession, subsequent to the year 1880,
should submit the question of its permanent location to the
popular vote at a general election, until which vote no expenditure for capitol buildings should be made. The same Constitution provided." that all property, real and personal, belonging to the Territory of Colorado at the adoption of this
Constitution shall be vested in and become the property of the
Stace of Colorado."
On the 9th of May, 1879, the plaintiff took possession of the'
VOL. CXVI-14

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

ten-acre tract and constructed around it a substantial board
fence. At the same 'time he executed and put on record a
deed revoking and' annullinag his conveyance of 1868. The
reason assigned in that, deed-for its execution is, that "neither
the said Territory, nor its successor, the State of Colorado, have
ever accepted the said conveyance, or located or erected a capitol or other public buildings on said tract of land as in an d by
said deed [of 1868] provided."
The bill alleged that plaintiff had been in complete possession of said land ever since May 9, 189; that, at the general
election, in 1881, the seat of government was located, by a
popular vote, at Denver; and that her officers of State and
Board of Managers for the erection of State Capitol Buildings
at Denver, were about to take, and, unless restrained, would
take, possession of said ten-acre tract for the purpose of erecting said buildings thereon.
He prayed' tfiat they be enjoined from disturbing his possession of the premises until he should receive just compensation
therefor.
-A demurrer to the bill having been sustained upon the ground
that it did not set forth a cause of action, the suit was dismissed.
-Mrb. Jzme.3 IT Brown for appellant.
.M'. [1torntonr IT Thomas for appellees.
Mn. JusTicE HRLAN delivered the opinion of the court.
After stating the facts in the language reported above, he continued:
As all. th6 parties to this suit are citizens of the State of
Colorado the Circuit Couirt was without jurisdiction, unless the
suit is one arisinginder the Constitution or laws of the United
States. It is not clear upon what precise ground the plaintiff
contends that the suit belong s to that class. We suppose his
claim to be that when the Territory became a State, the property he had givefi to the former became his again, and that the
provision in the Constitution of the State, "that all property,

BROWIN v. GRANT.
Opinion of the Court.

real and personal, belonging to the Territory of Colorado" at
the adoption of that instrument "shall be vested in and become
the property of the State of Colorado," deprived him of his
property without due process of law, that is, it was thereby
taken from him, for public use, without just compensation being first made, or in some legal mode secured, to him. Assuming that the suit, upon that basis, arises under the Constitution
of the United States, it is difficult to conceive of one in which
the question has merit.
Before the execution of the deed of January 11, 1868, the
Territorial Legislature had located the seat of government at
Denver. It was there when the appellant's gift was made.
The gift had direct reference to the Territorial enactment authorizing commissioners to accept a conveyauce of not less
than ten acres of laud, without charge to the Territory, and so
as to vest in it an absolute fee simple title. The title was so
conveyed by Brown to the'Territory, "its successors and assigns forever," for "the purpose of erecting a capitol and other
public buildings thereon only." The deed was duly accepted;
for, if the act under the authority of which the land was obtained, and the execution and registration of the deed, are not
complete proof of such acceptance, surely the act of 1872 iequiring the capitol building to be erected "upon the ground
heretofore donated to the Territory for that purpose by Henry
C. Brown," is ample evidence of that fact. It is idle to say
that the Territory never accepted the conveyance. Upon what
legal ground, then, can the appellant defend his resumption of
possession in 1879? His conveyance contained no condition
under which he could demand the erection of a capitol building within any specified time, in default of which the property
would revert to him. The territorial legislature wisely invested commissioners with authority to accept a conveyance of
an absolute fee-simple title, and reserved to itself the determination of all questions concerning the time within which the
proposed building should be erected. And it candot be said,
in view of the allegations of the bill, that the Territory did not
move as rapidly in creating indebtedness for that purpose as
the public necessities permited or the public interests required.

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Cour.

If it were conceded that the removal of the seat of govern.
ment from Denver, or the abandonment of this land as the site
of capitol buildings, would, under all the circumstances, entitle
Brown to .claim the property, or compensation therefor, it is
sufficient to say that no such state of facts now exists.
But the appellant contends that he made this gift upon the
implied condition that the Territo2-y, not the State, should
erect the public buildings in question. Apart from the fact
that the terms of the deed are inconsistent with such a condition, the supposition cannot be indulged for a moment that the
plaintiff did not look foiward to the time when the Territory
would become one of the States of the Union-an event which
would .necessarily tend to accomplish the very object that he
had, as he avows, in making the donation, viz., to increase the
value of other lands owned by him, of which the ten acres in
question formed a part. The reference in the deeds of 1868
and 1S79 to the successors of the Territory is persuasive evidence of.the fact that the plaintiff contemplated the organization of its people as a State. Now that the State proposes to
construct capitol buildings on the land donated for that very
purpose, the plaintiff asks the intervention of a court of equity
to prevent her agents from entering upon the premises until
ie receives compensation for what was in law a donation to
the public as an organized bod?, whether under a territorial
government, or as a State. He is not entitled to such aid.
The suggestion that the clause of the Constitution providing
that the State is the owner of all the property which the Territory held upon its becoming a State deprived him of his property, is not entitled to serious consideration. Unless otherwise
declared by Congress, the title to every species of property
owned by a Territory passes to the State upon its admission
into the Union. The provision in the State constitution to
that effect was only declaratory of what was the law.
Judgment aijflnmed.

