NING v. WOOLFOLK.
Opinion of the Court.

ING & Another v. WOOLFOLK.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY .OF MONTANA.
Submitted January 15, 188.-Decided February 1, 1886.

In order to maintain an action for deceit, it is not only necessary to establish
the telling of an untruth, knowing it to be such, with intent to induce the
person to whom it is told to alter his condition, but also that he did alter
his condition in consequence, and suffered damage thereby: and if it appear affirmatively that although be altered his condition after hearing
the untruth, he was not induced to do it in consequence thereof, but did it
independently, the action fails.
On the facts proved in this case the plaintiff has no cause a actiqn founded on

contract.

The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
.Mr..3. F. ,Morrisand Mr. I. X Saunders for plaintiffs in
error.
.Afr. Tfooyfolk, defendant in error, for himself.
MR. JUSTICE WOODS delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiffs in error were the plaintiffs in the court below.
They brought this suit against the defendant in error in the
District Court for the County of Lewis and Clarke, in Montana
Territory, and in their petition stated their case substantially
as follows:
On September 16, 1874, the defendant made and delivered
to the plaintiffs his contract in writing, of which the following
is a copy:
"HELENA, September 16, 1874.
"Whereas John Kinna and John H. Ming have this day
joined with me in borrowing the sum of ,$2572.10 twenty-five
hundred and seventy-two and YL dollars, for the purpose of
paying R. S. Hale the balance of eight thousand dollars due
him under private agreement with said Ming, Kinna, and
Woolfolk, in order for their release from certain notes executed
by them to said Hale, as security for the Park Ditch Company;

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

and whereas the Park Ditch Company -has pledged the note of
William Chessman to it, and its claim against Felix Poznainsky, and any other demands due it to the extent of repaying to
the said MNing, Kinna, and Woolfolk the sum of $2572.10, this
day borrowed; now, therefore, the said Woolfolk does hereby
agree that if he shall collect any of the above amounts, or shall
from any resources whatever of the Park Ditch Company receive any other sums, after deducting all costs, charges, and
expenses, to apply the same in payment of said note, and also
another note executed to R. S. Hale for taxes, amounting to between six and seven hundred dollars, until said notes shall be
fully paid, said payments to be made by the said Woolfolk after
his return from the East next spring and as soon thereafter as
the amounts shall be received; but the said Woolfolk does not
assume to pay said note only to the extent that he shall receive
such amounts from the resources of the Park Ditch Company
as aforesaid.
"A. M. WOOLFOLK."
The petition further averred that Woolfolk, in order to induce
the plaintiffs to join him in borrowing the money and executing
the note therefor, so as to accomplish the Telease of all three
from their liability to Hale, represented to them that the Park
Ditch Company had passed a resolution, in conformity with the
recitals in the contract above set forth, by which it had pledged
the Chessman note and the claim against Poznainsky, and all
of its resources, including all of its receipts for water sold and
to be sold by it, sufficient to pay the said sum of $2572.10, and
that, relying on this representation, they joined in the borrowing of said money and the execution of the note therefor; that
the Park Ditch Company had never passed such resolution;
that the plaintiffs had each paid out of his own funds the onethird of said note for borrowed money, and they had also paid.
the sum of $445.50, being the two-thirds of the note mentioned
in the contract which Hale had given for taxes; that no part
of said sums of money had been repaid to the plaintiffs, and the
same were due to them, with interest.
The petition further alleged that about May 1, 1875, the de-

MING v. WOOLFOLK.
Opinion of the Court.

fendant took the control and management of the affairs of the
Park Ditch Company, and between that date and September
1st following received on the Chessman note and the claim
against Poznainsky about $3000, and from sales of water and
other resources of the Park Ditch Company more than $3500,
and he should have applied a sufficient part of these sums to
the reimbursement of the plaintiffs for the moneys paid out by
them as aforesaid, amounting in all to the sum of $2255.64, but
that he had refused so to do. The plaintiffs, therefore, prayed
judgment against the defendant for the last mentioned sum,
with interest.
The defendant, in his answer, admitted the making of the
contract set out in the declaration, but denied that there was
any valuable consideration therefor; denied that he had stated
to the plaintiffs that the Park Ditch Company had passed the
resolution mentioned in the petition; denied that on, May 1-,
1815, or at any other time during that year, he took possession
of the Park Ditch or the control or management of the Park
Ditch Company; denied that he ever collected any sum whatever on the Chessman note or the Poznainsky claim, or ever
received at any time after the execution of said contract, from
sales of water or any other resources of the Park Ditch Company, the sum of $3500, or any other sum, after deducting co~ts,
charges, and expenses. Upon the issues thus raised the case
was tried.
After the plaintiffs had introduced their evidence and rested,
the defendant moved the court for non-suit. The court granted
the motion, and rendered judgment for the defendant for costs.
The plaintiffs thereupon took the case by appeal to the Supreme
Court of the Territory of Montana, which affirmed the judgment of the District Court. By the present writ of error the
plaintiffs seek the reversal of the judgment of the Supreme
Court of Montana.
It appears from the record that the Park Ditch Company
was a corporation organized under the laws of the Territory of
Montana; that on September 16, 1874, the date of the contract
set out in the petition, it was insolvent, and that the plaintiffs
and the defendant were jointly liable as its sureties to one R. S.

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

H'ale for a balance of between $11,000 and $12,000, for which
they held no indemnity, and that Hale, the creditor, offered to
release them from this liability on the payment to him of the
sum of $2572.10, to pay which they borrowed the said money
and gave the note mentioned in the petition. Both the plaintiffs were examined as witnesses. Ming testified thatthe water
.rents which had been pledged, as he supposed, for the indemnity
of the plaintiffs, were the rents for the season of 1875, and that
the water did not begin to run until about the middle of May,
and that in May, 1875, there was a contest between R. S. Hale
and the Park Ditch Company over these receipts, and that Hale
brought an action to recover them, and asked for the appointment of a receiver. Both Ming and iKinna testified that they
would have paid said sum of $2572.10 to Hale to be released
from the laiger obligation, even if no representations bad been
made to them bythe defendant, to the effect that the Park
Ditch Company had passed a resolution pledging its assets for
,their indemnity; that they were not induced by the said representations of the defendant to relinquish any security which
they held-in fact .they held none of any value. In short, to
put the case as the plaintiffs themselves by their own testimony
put it, they together with the defendant jointly borrowed
$2572.10, which they paid to Hale, who in consideration thereof
released them from a liability to him as sureties of the insolvent
Park Ditch Company of about $12,000, and they would have
paid the money whether the Park Ditch Company had pledged
its assets for their indemnity or not, and the borrowing of the
money subjected them to no loss, but was greatly to their advantage.
So far, therefore, as the case made by the decla=ration is to be
considered as an action to recover damages by a deceit practised by the defendant, it amounts to this, that the defendant,
by his false representations, induced the plaintiffs to do something which they would have done anyhow, and by which they
sustained no loss, but on the contrary were greatly advantaged.
"The requisites to sustain an action for deceit," says Baron
Parke, in IFatson v. Poul8r%, 15 Jurist, 1111, are "the telling
of an untruth, knowing it to be an untruth, with intent

MING v.WOOLFOLK.
Opinion of the Court.

to induce a man to alter his condition, and his altering his
condition in consequence, whereby he sustains damage." See
also Pasley v. Freeman, 3 T. R. 51; Polhill v. Walter, 3 B. &
Ad. 114; Levy v. .an gridge, 4 M . & W. 337; Brown v. Ca8-.
tle8, 11 Cush. 348; Tyon v. Wkitmar8h, 1 Met. (Mass.) 1. Considered, therefore, as an action for a deceit it is plain that the
case must fail; for, concedirg the alleged representation to
have been made by the defendant and to have been false, the
plaintiffs were not induced thereby to change their condition,
and, moreover, have suffered no damage.
The plaintiffs' counsel say, however, that the action is to be
considered as based on the contract by which the defendant
agreed to apply the assets of the Park Ditch Company which
came to his hands, after deducting all costs, charges, and expenses, to the reimbursement of the plaintiffs for the money
borrowed by them and paid to Hale. Considered as an action
on the contract, the suit must fail, for want of evidence to support it. It is averred in the petition, and not denied in the
answer, that the Park Ditch Company never pledged the assets
and resources mentioned in the contract for the reimbursement
of the plaintiffs, and nothing in the record shows that such
pledge was made. The defendant in his answer denied that,
after the making of the contract, he ever rkeeived any money
from the assets of the Park Ditch Company, or for water rents.
It is clearly shown by the evidence, and the contrary is not
now asserted by the plaintiffs, that no money whatever was
paid to the defendant on the Chessman note or on the Poznainsky claim. The plaintiffs insist, however, that the defend-'
ant received the water rents of the Park Ditch Company in the
year 1875 to the amount of about $3500 over and above costs,
charges, and expenses. But upon a careful reading of the
record we are unable to find any evidence to support this contention. The only testimony upon this point is the minutes of
the meetings of the board of trustees of the Park Ditch Company offered in evidence by the plaintiffs. These minutes show
that R. S. Hale had, in a suit brought by him against the Park
Ditch Company, seized the net receipts for water sales of the
company, and that on Mav 24, 1875, the board of trustees as-

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Onurt.

signed said net proceeds to A. J. Davis, W. C. Gillette, and
Samuel Schwab, who had become the sureties of the company
in the suit, to secure them against loss by reason of their suretyship. They further show that on October 20, 1875, a resolution
was adopted by the board of trustees, by which, after reciting
that, whereas R. S. Hale had proposed to dismiss his said action
against the company for the prbceeds of water sales for the
year A. D. 1875, amounting to the sum of $3450, on the following conditions, vit: that A. M. Woolfolk should cause to be
dismissed all proceedings involving the payment ef certain
,water notes executed by the Park Ditch Company and held by
him, amounting to the sum of about $8000, and should deliver
said notes to Hale to be cancelled, and that Woolfolk should
cause to be dismissed by T. P. lNewton all appeals involving
the right to the possession of the Park Ditch, and arbitr4te
the value of the Tucker Extension belonging to Woolfolk,
and that Woolfolk should sell said extension to Hale at such
appraised value, and sell and dispose of all other property
belonging to Woolfolk and connected with said ditch; and
whereas Woolfolk had at his own expense defended the right
of the company to said receipts, and had furnished all necessary bonds for the company, and besides giving his own professional services, had employed and paid counsel to defend
said suit; it was resolved that the company did thereby
promise and agree with Woolfolk that if he would accede to
the terms of Hale, the company would for this and the considerations aforesaid relinquish to him one-half the amount of said
receipts, to wit, $1725, provided Woolfolk should accept the
same as full reimbursement and satisfaction for all his charges
against said company by reason of the premises aforesaid.
The minutes further stated that "Woolfolk being present accepted."
This was the only evidence offered by the plaintiffs tending
to show any receipt by the defendant of the water rents of the
Park Ditch Company for 1875. If the proposition contained
in the resolution was carried out, of which there is no evidence
in the record, it can hardly be contended that Woolfolk might
not receive and appropriate to his own use the $1725 mentioned

LIEBKE v. THOMAS.
Syllabus.

in the resolution without violating his contract with the plaintiffs. After the water rents for 1875 had been attached in the
suit brought by Hale and had been pledged by the Park Ditch'
Company to its sureties in that suit, and Woolfolk, to aid the
company in compromising the case, had released a claim of
$8000 against it, and all claims for professional services rendered in the suit by himself and other counsel whom he had
employed, and all claim' for the moneys expended by him in
the defence of the suit, and had consented to the other exactions imposed by Hale, it can hardly be said that the $1725,
the gross sum received by Woolfolk, if in fact he evez received
it, was the net proceeds of the water rents, "after dedacting all
costs, charges, and expenses." It does not appear by the evidence that there were any net proceeds of the water rents: on
the contrary it appears. there were not.
It needs no argument to show that the contract sued on was
not meant to bind the defendant to pay over to the plaintiffs
money obtained under the circumstances set out in the resolutions of the board of trustees. There is no other evidence 'to
show the receipt of money by the defendant from the assets or
resources of the Park Ditch Company. The case of the plaintiffs must, therefore, fail for want of any evidence to show a
breach of the contract made by the defendant with them.
Their suit is without support. The record fails to show any
plausible ground for bringing it in the first instance or for suing
out the present writ of error.

Judgment afrmed.

LIEBKE *& Another v. THOMAS.
EOR TO THE ST. LOUTS COURT OF APPEALS IN THE STATE
OF 31ISSOURI.
Submitte January 8,1886.-Decided February 1, 1886.

Notice given to the holder and owner of an accommodation note, under ยง 17 of
the act of June 22. 1874, of composition proceedings in bankruptcy by or
against the payee and indorser for whose accommodation the note was given,

