UNITED STATES. v. PERKINS.
Opinion of the Court.

UNITED STATES v. PERKINS.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
Submitted January 6, 188.-Decided January 25,1886.

When Congress by law, vests the appointment of inferior officers in the heads
of departments. it may limit and restrict the power of removal as it deems
best for the public interests. A naval cadet-engineer, not found deficient at examination ; not dismissed for
misconduct under the provisions of Rev. Stat. ยง *525 or upon and in
pursuance of a sentence of a court-martial ; but honorably discharged by
the Secretary of the Navy against his will, remains in the service notwithstanding the discharge, and is entitled to recover in the Court of Claims
the pay attached to the position.

The facts are stated in the opinion of the court
tr. .Asistant Attorney-General IJfaury for appellant.
.7f. J W. Douglas for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE MATTHEWS delivered the opinion of the court,
,The object of this suit was to recover $100 as the salarr of
the plaintiff as a cadet-engineer of the Navy, from June 30,
1883, to September 1, 1883, at the rate of $600 per year, as
provided by Rev. Stat. ยง 1556. Judgment was rendered in his
favor for that amount. 20 C. Cl. 438.
The plaintiff entered the Naval Academy as a cadet-engineer
in 1877, and graduated therefrom on June 10, 1881. On June
26, 1883, he received a letter from the Secretary of the Navy
giving him notice that, as he was not required to fil any vacancy in the naval service happening during the preceding year,
he was thereby honorably discharged from the 30th of Jufie,
1883, with one year's sea-pay, as prescribed by law for cadetmidshipmen, in accordance with the provisions of the act of
Congress approved August 5, 1882.
He protested against this order as illegal and refused the
pay, and, regarding himself as continuing in the service, he sued
for his pay subsequently accruing.

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

The case differs from that of IRedgrave, just decided, in one
particular only, that the claim is for pay after the alleged discharge.
The single question now raised as to that point is, that,
although the discharge may not be justified by the, act of August 5, 1882, the Secretary of the Navy, irrespective of that
act, had lawful power to discharge him from the service at
will. This authority is claimed on the ground that the plaintiff .was not an officer in the naval service within the meaning of iRev. .Stat6 ยง 1229, which provides that "No officer in
the military or naval service shall in time of peace be dismissed
from service except upon and in pursuance of the sentence of
a.court-martial to that effect or in commutation thereof;" and
that consequently the right to remove and discharge him from
the public service is implied in the power of appointment.
In reply to this position, the Court of Claims, in its opinion
in this case, said:
'In this view we cannot concur. That a cadet-engineer like
the claimant was a graduate and in the naval service we have
already decided; that he was an officer is made manifest by
the terms of the Constitution, which provides that "Congress
may by law vest the appointment of such inferior officers as
they think proper in the President alone, in the courts of law,
or in the heads of Departments." Congress has by express
enactment vested the appointment of cadet-engineers in the
Secretary of the Navy, and when thus appointed they become
officers and not employes. United States v. Germaine, 99 U.
S. 508; .koore v. United States, 95 U. S. 760 " UnitenW States
v. Hartwell, 6 Wall. 385.
"It is further urged that this restriction of the power of
,removal is an infringement upon the constitutional prerogative of the Executive, and so of no force, but absolutely void.
Whether or not Congress can restrict the power of removal
incident to the power of appointment of those officers who are
appointed -bythe PreSident by and with the advice and consent
of the Senate under the autLarity of the Constitution (article
2, section 2) does not arise in 'this case and need not be considered.

LAUGHtIN v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
Syllabus.

"We have no doubt that when Congress, by law, vests the
appointment of inferior officers in the heads of Departments it
may limit and restrict the power of removal as it deems best f6r
the public interest. The constitutional authority in Congress to
thus vest the appointment implies authority to limit, restrict,
and regulate the removal by such laws as Congress may enact
in relation to the officers so appointed.
"The head of a Department has no constitutional prerogative of appointment to offices independently of the legislation
of Congress, and by such legislation he must be governed, not
only in making appointments but in all that is incident thereto.
"It follows that as the claimant was not found deficient at
any examination, and was, not dismissed for misconduct under
the provisions of Revised Statutes, section 1525, nor upon and
in pursuance of the sentence of a court-martial to that effect or
in commutation thereof, according to Revised Statutes, section
1229, he is still in office and is entitled to the pay attached to
the same."
We adopt these views, and affirm the judgment of the Court
of Claims.
Affirmed.

LAUGHLINv. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
A-PPEA.L FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
Argued January 14, 1886.-Decided January 25, 1886.

A, having done work on the streets of Washington under a contract with the
board of public works, rteeived certificates that his accounts were audited
and allowed for specified amounts; on pledge of which he borrowed money
of B, giving his note therefor shortly before the abolition of the board by
Congress, and thb creation of the board of audit. A requested the treasurer
of the board of public works- in writing, not to pay these certificates, but
assigned no reason for the request. Afterwards 0 presented them to the
board of audit, by whom they were allowed, and C received district bonds
for them' under fi' raw. Neither. B n3r C has accounted to A for the
certificats. nor returned his note. A sued the District for the amount 'due
on the certificates. Held, That he had no cause of action.

