OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Syllabus.

ing into a pinion on the end of the crank-shaft. But, in the
reissue, m is called "a rack-bar or connecting-rod." Again, in
the reissue, the reference to the letter H, as connected withand working the chain to be used with the sheave or wheel, in
the second suggested alternative means of shifting, is erased, so
as fiot to make the use of the lever H necessary. Before these
changes, the defendants' machine, which has no lever and no.
rotating drank-shaft, would not have been within the scope of
the original claims, but, if the rack-bar were to become a connecting-rod, it was thought it might cover the rod in the defendants' machine. Claim 3 of the reissue was framed on this
view, of shifting by, a rod alone, while claim 1 is made so
broad as to seem to claim shifting by any means, by a single
movement.
As to claims 4, 5 and 6 of the reissue, the shifting mechanism
of the patent, with its rotating crank-shaft, must, in view of
tle Powers invention, be considered as an element in each
claim; and that mechanism is not used by the defendants.
It follows from these views, that
The decree of the Circuit Court must be reversed,and the case
remanded,with a direction, to dismiss the bill, with costs.

PRESSER v. ILLINOIS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.
Argued November 23, 24, 1885.-Decided January 4, 1886.

The doctrine that statutes, constitutional in part only, will be upheld as to
what is constitutional, if it can be separated from the unconstitutional provisions, reasserted.
A State statute providing that all able-bodied male citizens of the State
between eighteen and forty-five, except those exempted, shal be subject to
military duty, and shall be enrolled and designated as the State militia,
and prohibiting all bodies of men other than the regularly organized
volunteer militia of the State and the troops of the United States from associating together as military organizations, or drilling or parading with
arms in any city eL the State without license from the governor, as to

PRESSER v. ILLINOIS.
Statement of Facts
these provisions is constitutional and does not infringe the laws of the
United States: and it is sustained as to them, although the act contains
other provisions, separable from the foregoing, which it was contended
infringed upon the powers vested in the United States by the Constitution,
or upon laws enacted by Congress in pursuance thereof.
The provision in the SecondAmendment to the Constitution, that "the right
of the people to keep and bear arms shall not be infringed," is a limitation
only on the power of Congress and the national government, and not of the
States. But in view of the fact that all citizens capable of bearing arms
constitute the reserved military force of the national government as well as
in view of its general powers, the States cannot prohibit the people from
keeping and bearing arms, so as to deprive the United States of their rightful resource for maintaining the public security.
The iovision in the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution that "no
State shall make or enforce any law which shall abridge the privileges
or immunities of citizens of the United States," does not prevent a State
from passing such laws to regulate the privileges and and immunities of its
own citizens as do not abridge their privileges and immunities as citizens
of the United States.
Unless restrained by their own Constitutions, State legislatures may enact
statutes to control and regulate all organizations, drilling, and parading of
military bodies and associations, except those which are authorized by the
militia laws of the United States.

Herman Presser, the plaintiff in error, was indicted on September 24, 1879, in the Criminal Court of Cook County, Illinois, for a violation of the following sections of Art. XI. of
the Military Code of that State, Act of May 28, 1879, Laws of
1879, 192.
"§ 5. It shall not be lawful for any body of men whatever,
other than the regular organized volunteer militia of this State,
and the troops of the United States, to associate themselves
together as a military company or organization, or to drill or
parade with arms in any city, or town, of this State, without
the license of the Governor thereof, which license may at any
time be revoked: And provided,further, that students in edu-

cational institutions, where military science is a part of the
course of instruction, may, with the consent of the Governor,
drill and parade with arms in public, under the superintendence
of their instructors, and may take part in any regimental or
brigade encampment, under command of their military instructor; and while so encamped shall be governed by the provisions of this act. They shall be entitled only to transporta-

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

tion and subsistence, and shall report and be subject to the
commandant of such encampment: Provided., that nothing
herein contained shall be construed so as to prevent benevolent
or social organizations from wearing swords.
" § 6. Whoever offends against the provisions of the preceding section, or belongs to, or parades with, any such unauthorized body of men with arms shall be punished by a fine
not exceeding the sum of ten dollars ($10), or by imprisonment
in the common jail for a term not exceeding six months, or
both."
The indictment charged in.substance that Presser, on Sepfember 24, 1879, in the county of Cook, in the State of Illinois, "did unlawfully belong to, and did parade and drill in the
city of Chicago with an unauthorized body of men with arms,
who had associated themselves together as a military company
and organization, without having a license from the Governor,
and not being a part of, or belonging to, 'the regular organized
volunteer militia' of the State of Illinois, or the troops of the
United States."
A motion to quash the indictment was overruled. Presser
then pleaded not guilty, and both parties having waived a jury
the case was tried by the court, which found Presser guilty
and sentenced him to pay a fine of $10.
The bill of exceptions taken upon the trial set out all the
evidence, from which it appeared that Presser was thirty-one
years old, a citizen of the United States and of the State of
Illinois, and a voter; that he belonged to a society called the
Lehr und Wehr Verein, a corporation organized April 16,
1875, in due form, under chapter 32, Revised Statutes of. Illinois, called the General Incorporation Laws of Illinois, "for
the purpose," as expressed by its certificate of association, "of
improving the mental and bodily condition of its members, so
as to qualify them for the duties of citizens of a republic. Its
members shall therefore obtain, in the meetings of the association, a knowledge of our laws and political economy, and shall
also be instructed in military and gymnastic exercises;" that
Presser, in"December, 1879, marched at the head of said company, about four hundred in number, in the streets of the city

PRESSER v. ILLINOIS.
Argument for Plintiff in Error.

of Chicago, he riding on horseback and in command; that the
company was armed with rifles and Presser with a cavalry
sword; that the company had no license from the governor of
Illinois to drill or parade as a part of the militia of the State,
and was not a part of the regular organized militia of the
State, nor a part of troops of the United States, and had no
organizdtiDx under the militia law of the United States. The
evidence showed no other facts. Exceptions were reserved to
the ruling of the court upon the motion to quash the indictment, to the finding of guilty, and to the judgment thereon.
The case was, taken to the Supreme Court of Illinois, where
the judgment w.is affirmed. Thereupon Presser brought
the present writ .of error for a review of the judgment of
affirmance.
M21r. Allan C. Story for plaintiff in error, argued the following Federal points.-I. The Illinois act is in conflict with
Article I., section 8, subdivisions 12, 14, 15, 16 and 18 of the
Constitution of the United States. Houston v. .foore, 5
Wheat. 1, 51, 68'- Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 209; Passenger C se., 7 Hlow. 283; Railroad Co. v. Rusen, 95 U. S. 465;
.rcCullode v. faryland,4 Wheat. 315; Sturges v. Crowninldteld, 4 Wheat. 122; 0pinion.of Justices, 11 Gray, 614;
United States v. Cruileshank, 92 U. S. 542; .2fartinv. NAott, 12
Wheat. 19.-I. It is also in conflict with Article 1, section 18,
subdivision 3, of the Constitutidn. Luther v. Borden, 7 How.
1; Texas v. *Wdte,7 'Wall. 700; Green v. Biddle, 8 Wheat.
1; Poole v. leeder, 11 Pet. 185; and cases cited above.
-III. It is also in conflict with Aiticle II. of the Amendments to the Constitution. See cases cited under Point IIV. It is also in conflict with Amend~pnt X-V. to the Constitution. Slaughter-House Cases, 16 Wall. 36, 74; WVard v.
.Maryland,12 Wall. 418, 430; Crandall v. -Nevada, 6 Wall.
35, 49; .Dred Scott v. Sandford, 19 Hlow. 393, 580 ; Uinited
States v. Cruikshank, cited above.-V. It is also in conflict
with Article I., section 9, subdivision 3 of the Constitution.
Fletcher v. Peck, 6 Cranh, 87 ; Cummings v. ifissouri,4 Wall.
277; Zapeyre v. Unvted States, 17 Wall. 191, 206 ; Carpenter

OCTOBER TERA,

1885.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

v. Pennsylvania,17 How. 456; Ex parte Garland, 4 Wall.
333.
.Mr. Zyman Trumbull also -filed a supplemeital brief for
plaintiff in error, .ontending as follows:
I. The power of organizing, arming and disciplining the
militia being confided by the Constitution to Congress, when
Congress acts upon the subject and passes a law to carry into
effect the constitutional provision, such action excludes the
power of legislation by the State on the same subject. This is
manifest, not only from the grant of power to Congress to
organize, arm and discipline the militia, but from the restriction which the Constitution puts upon the States, limiting them
simply to the appointment of the officers, and to the authority
to train the militia as Congress shall prescribe. The power of
each government in regard to the militia is distinctly stated in
the Constitution itself. As -well might the Federal government arrogate to itself the appointment of the officers of the
militia as foi the States to assume to organize and arm them
in a different mode from that prescribed by Congress. Congress has exercised its functions, and covered, so far as it
deemed expedient, the ground assigned to it by the Constitution, by providing for organizing, arming and disciplining the
militia. See Houston v. .oore, 5 Wheat. 1, especially the
language of the court .on page 24. Counsel on the other side
contend this cage was overruled in Sturges v. Crowninmield, 4
Wheat. 122. That is a -remarkable statement, as Sturges v.
C'owninshield, was debided a year before Houston v. .oore.
Moreover there isnbothing in the former in conflict with the
latter. The Military Code of Illinois differs from the act of
Congress not only in details, but in its whole scope and object.
Congress aims to arm; organize- and discipline all- able-bodied
male citizens of the specified 'age. Illinois aims to prevent
such arming, organizing and. disciplining. Only 8000 are
allowed to associate together and drill, and even those are not
enrolled and organized as required by Congress.
II. The provisions for organizing, arming and disciplining
the Illinois National Guard are in conflict with that clause of

PRESSER v. ILLINOIS.
Argument for Plpintiff in Error.

the Constitution which de6lares that no State shall, without
the consent of Congress, keep troops in time of peace. Congress has never given its assent to that organization, and it is
apparent that the guard are "troops" within the sense of the
Constitution. The militia acts of Congress only excepted from
their operation certain military organizations then existing, of
which the Illinois National Guard was not one. It consists of
8000 men, raised for five years, formed into companies and
regiments, with staff officers different in number and rank from
those provided for by Congress; is divided into infantry,
cavalry and artillery; is required to drill often, to practise at
target shooting and rifle practice, and is required to conform
to the laws of the United States organizing the militia only
in matters not provided for in the act. If these provisions
do not constitute the Illinois National Guard "troops," the
keeping of which in time of peace by the State is prohibited
by the Constitution of the United States, I am at a loss
to conceive what kind of troops it is that a State may not
keep.
III. The provision of the State statute which prohibits other
organizations than that of the "Illinois National Guard," from
associating together as military companies, or to parade with
arms, without the license of the governor, is in conflict with
the act of Congress for the organization, &c., of the militia,
and also violates Articles II. and XIV. of the Amendments to
the Constitution. It may be admitted that Article II., securing
to the people the right to keep and bear arms, by itself is a
prohibition against the power of Congress, and not of the
States, to interfere with that right, except when the keeping
and bearing of arms is connected with some national purpose.
When it is so connected, no State can pass any law abridging
the right without a violation of the Second and Fourteenth
Amendments.
The Fourteenth Amendment makes all persons born or naturalized in the United States, citizens 6f the United States,
and of the State wherein they reside, and then declares that
no State shall make any law which shall abridge the privileges
and immunities of citizens of the United States. The citizen
VOL. cxv-17

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
A gument for Plaintiff in Error.

of the United States has secured to him the right to keep and
bear arms as part of the militia which Congress has the right
to organize, and arm, and to drill in companies. This is a national right which the national government has the power and
which it is its duty to enforce.
This right of the people to keep and bear arms for the purpose of forming a well regulated militia, like "the right of the
people peaceably to assemble for the purpose of petitioning
Congress for a redress of grievances or for anything else connected with the powers or the duties of the national government, is an attribute of national citizenship, and as such, under
the protection of, and guaranteed by the United States."
United States v. Cruikekank, 92 U. S. 542, 552.
Whether a State may not prohibit its citizens from keeping
or bearing arms for other than militia purposes is a question
which need not be considered, as the Illinois statute is aimed
against the organizing, arming and drilling of bodies of men as
militia, except they belong to the Illinois N~ational Guard of
eight thousand.
It is contended that the Illinois act does not conflict with the
act of Congress until the militia is actually mustered into the
service of the United States. This is a mistaken view of the
Constitution and of the object and intent of the law of 1792.
The power of Congress to organize the militia is not limited to
a period of war, *orto such time as they may be employed in
the service of the United States. It is only the power to govern
them that is thus limited. The clause in the Constitution authorizing the President to call out the militia and put it into the
service of the United States is separate and distinct from that
which authorizes Congress to legislate for its organization, aming, and discipline. The manifest intent of the Constitution is
to provide for an organized militia in time of peace, which may
be called upon to execute the laws of the Union, and thus dispense witl' a standing army.
The acts of 1792 and 1795, authorizing the President to use
military force to enforce the laws of the Union, suppress insurrections, and repel invasions, limited him to the use of the
militia for such purposes. It was not until 1807 that he had

PRESSER v. ILLINOIS.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

authority to employ the land and naval forces of the United
States therefor. Act of March 3, 1807, 2 Stat. 443.
The militia acts make definite provisions as to the persons
to serve in the militia, the officers of that body, the times of
parade and service, the returns to be made to the President,
&c. It is absurd to suppose that these have no force till the
militia is mustered into the service of the Union. State laws
making other provisions are in conflict with it as much before
as after such. muster.
If it were admitted that State laws for organizing the militia
are valid, except ii so far as they conflict with the execution
and operation of national laws on the same subject, the admission does not help the defendant in error, because it is insisted,
and, as I think, shown, that the whole spirit, intent and effect
of the Illinois statute is in conflict with the provisions of the
act of Congress. If a State law is incompatible with the Constitution of the United States, or any law of Congress in pursuance thereof, it is invalid, whether the conflict arise in the
execution and operation of the act of Congress, or in an attempt
to put the State law in operation. It is enough if the State
law, when sought to be put into execution and operation, conflicts with the national law on the same subject. It may be
that a State law in partial executioi of the military act of
Congress, and conforming to its provisions, would be valid to
that extent, upon the principle that power to organize all Lhe
militia implies the power to organize a part; but this principle
can have no application to the Military Code of Illinois, for the
reason that the organization of the Illinois National Guard,
provided for by that code, does not, as has been already shown,
conform to the act of Congress. It does not constitute any
part of the militia upon which the President may call to enforce the laws of the United States, when resisted by combinations too powerful to be overcome by the ordinary course of
judicial proceedings. Act of February 28, 1795, 1 Stat. 424;
Rev. Stat. §§ 5298, 5299. It is purely a State force, sworn to
serve the State in its military service, subject at all times to the
orders of the governor, prohibited from leaving the State without his consent under a penalty, and so far from being part of

OCTOBER TERMI,

1885.

Opinion of the Court.

the militia organized in pursuance of the act of Congress, the
Illinois National Guard, in its organization, arming, and the
purpose for 'which it is organized, contravenes the spirit and
intent of the national act, and if permitted to stand, it prevents
the organizing, arming and disciplining all the male citizens
of the State, as Congress has prescribed.
.ibr. George Hunt, Attorney-General of' Illinois, for defendant in error.
M

. JUsTICE WooDs delivered the opinion of the court.

After stating the facts in the language above reported, he
continued :
The position of the plaintiff in error in this court Was, that
the entire statute under which he was convicted was invalid
and void, because its enactment was the exercise of a power
by the legislature of Illinois forbidden to the States by the
Constitution of the United States.
The clauses of the Constitution of the United States referred
to in the asgignments of error, were as follows:
.
To
Art. I., sec. 8. "The Congress shall have power ..
raise and support armies.

.

.

.

To provide for calling forth

the militia to execute the laws of the Union, suppress insurrections, and repel invasions. To provide for organizing, arming,
and disciplining the militia, and for governing such part of
them as may be employed in the service of the United States,
reserving to the States, respectively, the appointment of the
officers, and the authority of training the militia, according to
the discipline prescribed by Congress.

.

.

.

To make all

laws which shall be necessary and proper, for carrying into
execution the foregoing powers,?' &c.
'Art. I., sec. 10. "No State shall, without the consent of Congress, keep troops

.

.

.

in time of peace."

Art. II. of Amendments. "A well regulated militia being
necessary to the security of a free State, the right of the peo.
ple to keep and bear arms shall not be infringed."
The plaintiff in error also contended that the enactment of
the 5th and 6th sections of Article XI. of the Military Code

PRESSER v. ILLINOIS.
Opinion of the Court.

was forbidden by subdivision 3 of section 9, Art. I., which declares " No bill of attainder or expoatfacto law shall be passed,"
and by Art. XIV. of Amendments, which provides that "No
State shall make or enforce any law which shall abridge the
privileges or immunities of citizens of the United States, nor
shall any State deprive any person of life, liberty, or property
without due process of law."
The first contention of counsel for plaintiff in error is that
the Congress of the United States having, by virtue of the provisions of Article I., section 8, above quoted, passed the act of
May 8, 1792, entitied "An Act more effectually to provide for
the National Defence by establishing an Uniform Militia
throughout the United States," 1 Stat. 271, the act of February 28, 1795, "to provide for calling forth the militia to execute the laws of the Union, suppress insurrections, and repel
invasions," 1 Stat. 424, and the act of July 22, 1861, "to authorize the Employment of Volunteers to aid in enforcing the
Laws and protecting Public Property," 12 Stat. 268, and other
subsequent acts, now forming "Title XVI., The Militia," of
the Revised Statutes of the United States, the legislature of
Illinois had no power to pass the act approved May 28, 1879,
"to provide for the organization of the State militia, entitled
the Military Code of Illinois," under the provisions of which
(sections 5 and 6 of Article XI.) the plaintiff in error was
indicted.
The argument in support of this contention is, that the power
of organizing, arming, and disciplining the militia being confided by the Constitution to Congress, when it acts upon the
subject, and passes a law to carry into effect the constitutional
provision, such action ekcludes the power of legislation by the
State on the same subject.
It is further argued that the whole scope and object of the
Military Code of Illinois is in conflict with that of the law of
Congress. It is said that the object of the act of Congress is
to provide for organizing, arming, and disciplining all the ablebodied male citizens of the States, respectively, between certain
ages, that they may be ready at all times to respond to the call of the nation to enforce its laws, suppress insurrection, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

repel invasion, and thereby avoid the necessity for maintaining
a large standing army, with which liberty can never be safe,
and that on the other hand, the effect if not object of the Illinois statgte is to prevent such organizing, arming, and disciplining of the militia.
The plaintiff in error insists that the act of Congress requires
absolutely all able-bodied citizens of the State between certain
ages, to be enrolled in the militia; that the act of Illinois makes
the enrolment depbndent on the necessity for the use of troops
to execute the laws and suppress insurrections, and then leaves
it discretionary with the governor by proclamation to require
such enrolment; that the act of Congress requires the entire
enrolled militia of the State, with a few exemptions made by
it and which may be made by State laws, to be formed into
companies, battalions, regiments, brigades, and divisions, that
every man shall be armed and supplied with ammunition, provides a system of discipline and field exercises for companies,
regiments, &c., and subjects the entire militia of the State to
the call of the President to enforce the laws, suppress insurrection, or repel invasion, and provides for the punishment of the
militia offiers and men who refuse obedience to his orders. On
the other hand, it is said that the State law makes it unlawful
for any of its able-bodied citizens, except eight thousand, called
the Illinois National Guard, to associate themselves together
as a military company, or to drill or parade with arms without
the license of the governor, and declares that no military company shall leave the State with arms and equipments without
hisoconsent; that even the eight thousand men, styled the Illinois National Guard, are not enrolled or-organized as required
by the act of Congress, nor are they subject to the call of the
-President,but they constitute a military force sworn to serve
in the military service of the" State, to obey the orders of the
governor, and not to leave the State without his consent; and
that, if the State act is valid, the national act providing for
organizing, arming, and disciplining the militia is of no force
in the State of Illinois, for the Illinois act, so far from being in
harmony .with the act of Congress, is an insurmountable obstaale to its execution..

PRESSER v. ILLINOIS.
Opinion of the Court.

We have not found it necessary to consider or decide the question thus raised, as to the validity of the en tire Military Code
of Illinois, for, in our opinion, the sections umder which the
plaintiff in error was convicted may be valid, even if the other
sections of the act were invalid. For it is a settled rule "that
statutes that are constitutional in part only will be upheld so
far as they are not in- conflict with the Constitution, provided
the allowed and prohibited parts are separable." Packet Co.
v. Keokuk, 95 U. S. 80; Penniman'8 Ca8e, 103 U. S. 714, 717;
Unity v. Burrage, 103 U. S.. 459. See also Trade AYark
Case, 100 U. S.82.
We are of opinion that this rule is applicable in this case.
The first two sections of Article I. of the Military Code provide that all able-bodied male citizens of the State between the
ages of eighteen and forty-five years, except those exempted,
shall be subject to military duty, and be dcsignated the "Illinois State Militia," and declare how they shall be enrolled and
under what circumstances. The residue of the Code, except
the two sections on which the indictment against the plaintiff
in error is based, provides for a volunteer active militia, to
consist of not more than eight thousand officers and men, declares how it shall be enlisted and brigaded, and the term of
service of its officers and men; provides for brigade generals
and their staffs, for the organization of the requisite battalions
and companies and the election of company officers; provides
for inspections, parades, and encampments, arms and armories,
rifle practice, and courts martial; provides for the pay of the
officers and men, for medical service, regimental bands, books
of instruction and maps; contaiis provisions for levying and
collecting a military fund by taxation, and directs how it shall
be expended; and appropriates $25,000 out of the treasury, in
advance of the collection of the military fund, to be used for
the purposes specified in the Military Code.
It is plain from this statement of the substance of the Military Code, that the two sections upon whiqh the indictment
against the plaintiff in error is based may be separated from
the residue of the Code, and stand.upon their own independent
provisions. These sections might have been left out of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

Military Code and put in an act by themselves, and the act
thus constituted, and the residue of the Military Code, would
have been coherent and sensible acts. If it be conceded that
the entire Military Code, except these sections, is unconstitutional and invalid, for the reasons stated by the plaintiff in
error, these sections are separable, and, put in an act by themselves, could not be considered as forbidden by the clauses of
the Constitution having reference to the militia, or to the
clause forbidding the States, without the consent of Congress,
to keep troops in time of peace. There is no such connection
between the sections which prohibit any body of men, other
than the organized militia of the State and the troops of the
United States, from associating as a military company and
drilling with arms in any city or town of the State, and the
sections which provide for the enrolment and organization of
the State militia, as makes it impossible to declare one, without
declaring both, invalid
This view disposes of the objection to the judgment of the
Supreme Court of Illinois, which judgment was in effect that
the legislation on which the indictment is based is not invalid
by reason of the provisions of the Constitution of the United
States, which vest Congress with power to raiseand support
armies, and to provide for calling out, organizing, arming and
disciplining the militia, and governing such part of them as
may be employed in the service of the -United States, and that
provision which declares that "no State shall without the
consent of Congress

keep troops

.

.

.

in time of

peace."
We are next to inquire whether the 5th and 6th sections of
article XI. of the Military Code are in violation of the other
provisions of the Constitution of the United States relied on
by the plaintiff in error. The first of these is the Second
Amendment; which declares: "A well regulated militia being
necessary to the security of a free State, the right of the people
to keep and bear arms shad' not be infringed."
We think it clear that the sections under consideration,
which only forbid bodies of men to associate together as
military organizations, or to drill or parade with Arms in cities

, PRESSER v. ILLINOIS.

265

Opinion of the Court.

and towns unless authorized by law, do not,infringe the right
of the people to keep and bear arms. But a conclusive answer
to the contention that this amendment prohibits the legislation
in question lies in the fact that the amendment is a limitation
only upon the power "of Congress and the National government, and not upon that of the States. It was so held by this
court in the case of tnited States v. Cruikehank, 92 U. S. 542,
553, in which the Chief Justie, in delivering the judgment of
the court, said, that the right of the people to keep and bear
arms "is not a right granted by the Constitution. Neither is it
in any manner dependent upon that instrument for its existence.
The Second Amendment declares that it shall not be infringed,
but this, as has been seen, means no more than that it shall not
be infringed by Congress. This is one of the amendments that
has no other effect than to restrict the powers of the National
government, leaving the people'to look for their protection
against any violation by their fellow-citizens of the rights it
recognizes to what is called in The City of NVew York v. 2filn,
11 Pet. [102] 139, the 'powers which relate to merely municipal legislation, or what was perhaps more properly called
internal police,' 'not surrendered or restrained' by the Constitution of the United States." See also Barronv. Baltimore,
7 Pet. 243 ;'Fox v. T/e State of Ohio, 5 How. 410; Twitchell
v. Commonwealth, 7 Wall., 321, 327; Jaccson v. WVood, 2
Cowen, 819; Commonwealth v. Purchase,2 Pick. 521; United
States v. .ruike.ank, I Woods, 308; 2North Carolina v.
-Aewsom, 5 Iredell, 250; Andrewe v. State, 3 Heiskell, 165;
Fife v. State, 31 ATI. 455.
It is undoubtedly true that all citizens capable of baring
arms constitute the reserved military force or reserve militia of
the United States as well as of the States, and, in view of this
prerogative of the general government, as well as of its general
powers, the States cannot, even laying the constitutional provision in question out of view, prohibit the people from keeping and bearing arms, so as to deprive the United States
of their rigbtful resource for maintaining the public security, and disabl the people from performing their duty to
the general government. But, as already stated, we think

.2616

OCTOBER TERM, iss-.
Opinion of the Court.

it clear that the sections under consideration do not have this
effect.
The plaintiff in error next insists that the sections of the
Military Code of Illinois, under which he was indicted, are an
invasion of that clause of the first section of the Fourteenth
Amendment to the Constitution of the United States which
declares: "iNo State shall make or enforce any law which shall
abridge the privileges or immunities of citizens of the United
States."
It is only the privileges and immtnities of citizens of the
United States that the clause relied on was intended to protect.
A State may pass laws to regulate the privileges and immunities of its own citizens, provided that in so doing it does
not abridge their privileges and immunities as citizens of the
United States. The inquiry is, therefore, pertinent, what
privilege or immunity of a citizen of the United States is
abridged by sections 5 and 6 of Article XL of the Military
Code of Illinois?
The plaintiff in error was not a member of the organized
volunteer militia of the State of Illinois, nor did he belong to.
the troops of the United States or to any organization under
the militia law of the United States. On the contrary,'the fact
that he did not belong to the organized militia or the troops of
the United States was an ingredient in the offence' for which,
he was convicted and sentenced. The question is, thbefore,
had he a right.as a citizen of the United States, in di~obedibnce
of the State law, to associate with others as a military company,
and to drill and parade with arms in the towns and cities 'ot the
State? If the plaintiff in error has any such priviwgeb-'e must
be able to point to the provision of the Constitutioijer statutes
of the United States by which it is conferred., For,-s' was
said by this court in L7nite(Z Ztates v. CruiksAank, 9.2 U. S. 542,
660, 551, the government of the United States, altbbugh it is
' within the scope of its powers supreme and above tle.States,"
. "can neither grant nor secure to its citizens any right or priviilege not expressly or by implication placed under, its jurisdiction.". "All that cannot be so granted or so secured are left
t9 the exclusive protection of the State."

PRESSER v. ILLINOIS.
Opinion of" the Cort.

We have not been referred to any statute of the United
Statbs which confers upon the plaintiff in error the privilege
which he asserts. The only clause in the Constitution which,
upon any pretence, could be said to have any felatidn whatever
to his right to associate with others as a military company is
found in the First Amendment, which declares that "Congress
shill make no law . . . abridging .
.
the right of
the people peaceably to assemble and to petition the government for a redress of grievances." This is a right which it
was held in United States v. Cruikshank,above cited, wa -an
attribute of national citizenship, and, as such, under the protection of, and guaranteed by, the United States. But it was held
in the same case that the right peaceably to assemble was not
protected by the clause referred to, unless the purpose of the
assembly was to petition the government for a redress of
grievances.
The right voluntarily to associate together as a military company or organization, or to drill or parade with arms, without,
and independent of, an act of Congress- or law of the State
authorizing the same, is not an attribute of national citizenship.,
Military organization and military drill and parade under arms
are subjects especially under the control of the government of
every country. They cannot be claimed as a right independent of law. Under our political system they are subject to the
regulation and control of the State and Federal governments,
acting in due regard to their respective prerogatives and powers. The Constitution and laws of the United States will be
searched in vain for any support to the view that these rights
are privileges and immunities of citizens of the United States
independent of some specific legislation on the subject.
It cannot be successfully questioned that the State governernmeiits, unless restrained by their own Constitutions, have
the power to regulate or prohibit associations and meetings of
the people, except in the case of peaceable assemblies to perform the duties or exercise the privileges of citizens of the
United States; and have also the power to control and regulate the organization, drilling, and parading of military bodies
and associations, except when such bodies or associations are

QCTOBER TpRM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

atithorized by the militia laws of the United States. The exercise of this power by the States is necessary to the public peace,
safety and good order. To deny the power would be to deny
the right of the State to disperse assemblages organized for
sedition and treason, and the right to suppress armed mobs
bent on riot and rapine.
In th case of IYew York v. XWln, 11 Pet. 102, 139, this court
said t-" We choose rather to plant ourselves on what we consider impregnable positions. They are these: that a State has
the same undeniable and unlimited jurisdiction over all persons
and things within its territorial limits as any foreign nation,
where that jurisdiction is not surrendered or restrained by the
Constitution of the United States; that by virtue of this, it is
not only the right but the bounden and solemn duty of a State
to advance the safety, happiness and prosperity of its people,
and to provide for its general welfare by any and every act
of legislation which it may deem to be conducive to these ends,
where the power over the particular subject or the manner of
its exercise is not surrendered or restrained in the manner just
stated," namely, by the Constitution and laws of the United
States. See also Gibbon8 v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 203; Gilman
v. Philade p1ia, 3 Wall. 713; License Tax Cae, 5 Wall. 462;
United States v. -Dewitt, 9 Wall. 41 ; Uniled. States v. Cruik8hank, 92 U. S.542. These considerations and authorities sustain the power exercised by the legislature of Illinois in the
enactment of sections 5 and 6 of Art. XI. of the IMilitary Code.
The argument of the plaintiff in error that the legislation
mentioned deprives him of either' life,' liberty or .property
without due process of*law, or that it is a bill of attainder or
expodtfacto law, is so clearly untenable as to require no .discussion.
It is next contended by the plaintiff in error that sections 5
and 6 of Art. XI. of the IMilitary Code, under which he was
indicted, are in conflict with the acts of Congress for the organization of the militia. But this position is based on what
seems to us ,to be an unwarranted construction of the sections
referred to.. It is :,lear that their object was to forbid voluntary
military associations unauthorized by law, from organizing or

PRESSER v. ILLINOIS.
Opinion of the Court.

drilling and parading with arms in the cities or towns of the
State, and not to interfere with the organization, arming and
drilling of the militia under the authority of the acts of Congress. If the object and effect of the sections were in irreconcilable conflict with the acts of Congress they would of
course be invalid. But it is a rule of construction that a statute
must be interpreted so as, if possible, to make it consistent
with the Constitution and the paramount law. Par8ons v.
BWedord, 3 Pet. 433; Grenada County Supervisorsv.Brogden,
112 U. S. 261; Zardhalq v. GOime8, 41 Mississippi, 27. If we
yielded to this contention of the plaintiff in error we should
render the sections invalid by giving them a strained construction, which would make them antagonistic to the law of Congress. We cannot attribute to the legislature, unless compelled
to do so by its plain words, a purpose to pass an act in conflict
with an act of Congress on a subject over which Congress is
given authority by the Constitution of the United States. *We
are therefore of opinion that fairly construed the sections of the
Military Code referred to do not conflict with the laws of
Congress on the subject of the militia.
The plaintiff in error further insists that the organization of
the Lehr und Wehr Verein as a corporate body, under the
general corporation law of the State of Illinois, was in effect a
license from the governor, within the meaning of section 5 of
Article XI. of the Military Code, and that such corporate body
fell within the exception of the same section "of students in
educational institutions where military science is a part of the'
course of instruction."
In respect to these points we have to say that they present
no Federal question. It is not, therefore, our province to consider or decide them. Yurdock v. -Memphi8, 20 Wall. 590.
All the Federal questions- presented by the record were
rightly decided by the Supreme Court of Illinois.
Judgment affirmed.

