BROWN v. DAVIS.
Syllabus.

and ascertaining the amount, of tax under the law are not
ieviewable here. No complaint is made of the law itself, if
it applies tp this company, so far as the disputed portions of its
road are concerned. The administration of the law by the
officers or the courts of the State involves no questions of which
we can take jurisdiction. The law being valid, the courts of
the State have exclusive jurisdiction, appellate or otherwise, of.
all cases brought before them involving proceodings for its enforcement.
The judgment i each of the cases i8 aflimed.

BROWN & Others v. DAVIS & Others.
APPEAL FRO
THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Argued December 17, 1885.-Decided January 11, 1886.
Claim 2 of reissued letters patent No. 8589, granted to Charles F. Davis and
William Allen, February 18, 1879, for an "improvement in grain drills"
(the original patent, No 74,515, having been granted to said Davis as in.
venter, February 18, 1868), namely: ",The shoes or hoes of a seed planter,
attached to the main frame, substantially as described, in combination with
a lever, or its equivalent, whereby they can be shifted at the pleasure of the
operator, from a straight to a zigzag line, or vice versa," makes the lever,
or its equivalent an essential element of the combination; and the claim is
not infringed, where the lever is dispensed with and the human hand is
substituted, although in the patent the hand is applied to work the lever.
In view of a prior invention, claims 1 and 8 of the reissue, which were not
made in the original patent, were held to be limited to the special shifting
apparatus of the patent, because, if extended to cover shifting arrangements not substantially using a rotating crank.shaft, they became claims
which could not lawfully have been granted in the original patent, and, as
claims in a reissue, were invalid, because the application for the reissue
was made nearly eleven years after the original patent was granted, and
after machines effecting the shifting by other means than a rotating crankshaft had gone into use subsequently to the date of the original, and no
sufficient excuse was given for the laches and delay.
It appeared as a fact, that new matter was introduced into the specification
of the reissue for the purpose of reaching machines which the claims of the

OCTOBER TERM,

1885.

Opinion of the Court.
original patent would not reach, and of laying a foundation for claims 1
and 3 of the reissue.
Claims 4, 5 and 6 of the reissue were held not to be infringed, because the
shifting mechanism of the patent, with its rotating crank-shaft, was an
element in each claim, in view of a prior invention, and was not used by
the defendant.

This was a suit in equity on an alleged infringement of a
patent. The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
_lr. E.

. Wood and Xr3.B. F. Thurston for appellants.

M'. S. 1). Bentley (iXt . TFilliam F. Cogewell was with him
on the brief) fr-appellees.
Mr. JUSTICE BLATCHFORD delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit in equity, brought in the Circuit Court of the
.United States for the Northern District of New York, on reissued letters patent No. 8589, granted to Charles F. Davis and
William Allen, February 18, 1879, for an "improvement in
grain drills," the original patent, No. 74,515, having been
granted to said Davis, as inventor, February 18, 1868. The
application for the reissue was filed January 24, 1879. The
defendes set up in the answer are, want of utility and novelty,
invalidity of the reissue, and non-infringement. The specifications of 'the original and reissued patents are here placed sidb
by side, the partW in each not found in the other being in italic:
Original.
"Be it known that I, Charles
"Be it-kn wn that I,-Charles
F. Davis, of Auburn, in the .F. Davis, of Auburn, county
county of Cayuga, and State of Cayuga State of New York,
of New York, have invented ha'e invented certain new and
certain new. and iQseful im- useful improvements in grain
provements in"graifi drills; and drills, of which the following is
fido hereby deolare the follow- a full, clear and exact descriping to be a full, clear, and exact tion, reference being had to the
description of the sene, refer- accompanying drawings, makence being had -to the ac- ing- part of this specification,

'BROWN v. DAVIS.
Opinion of the Court.

companying drawings, making in which Figure I represents a
a part of this specification, in plan or top view of the drill,
which Figure 1 represents a with the seed-box removed,
top plan of the dril, with the (but its position shown by
seed-box removed, but its po- dotted lines,) to show the parts
sition shown by red lines, to underneath it. Fig. 2 repshow the parts underneath it. resents the crank-rod or shaft
Figure2 represents the crank- to which the front ends of the
rod or shaft to which the front drag-bars are attached, deends of the drag-bars are tached - from the machine.
attached, when detached from Fig. 3 represents an end view
the machine. -Figure3 repre- of the drill, with the wheel resents -an end view of the drill, moved, to show the parts bewith the wheel'removed, to hind it, and representing, by
show the parts behind it, and full and dotted lines, the
representing, by black, dotted several operative parts, and
and red lines, the several oper- their positions under the
ative parts, and their. positions changes of the machine or its
under the changes of the parts. Similar letters of refermachine or its parts. Similar ence denote corresponding
letters of reference, where they parts in all the Xgure8.
occur in the 8evarate figures,
denote like parts in all of the
drawing8.
The object and purpose of . The object and purpose of
my invention are to shift or my invention i to shift or
change the seeding shoes or change the seeding shoes or
hoes from a straight to a zigzag hoes from a straight to a zigzag
line,

and vice

ver8a, and, line,

and

vice versa,

and

further, to so hang the shoes further, to so hang the shoes
or hoes, as, in addition to the or hoes, as, in addition to the
shifting process, to admit of shifting process, to admit of
being raised separately, or the being raised separately, or t1 e
whole series together, as may whole series together, as may
be found necessary.
be found necessary.
TQ enable others skilled in
To enable others skilled in
the art to make and use my the art to make and use my
invention, I will proceed to Iinvention, I will proceed to

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

describe the same with refer- describe the same with referIence to the drawings:
ence to the dr.wings:

Upon an Axle, A, supported I Upon an axle, A, supported
on the usual carrying wheels, Ion the usual carrying-wheels,

BROWN v. DAVIS.
Opinion of the Court.

B B, is mounted a main frame, B B, is mounted a main frame,
0, and on the main frame a C, and on the main frame a
seed-box, D, the slides of which seed-box, D, the slides of which
may be operated in any of the may be operated in any of the
well-known ways. In bear- well-known ways. In. bearings, E, in the front portion of ings, E, in the front portion of
the main frame, is hung, so as the main frame, is hung, so as
to rock or turn therein, a zigzag to rock or turn therein, a zigzag
or crank shaft, F, (shown de- or crank-shaft, F, (shown detached in Fig.. 2,) and to the tached in Fig. 2,) and to the
cranks or wrists, a a a, of this cranks or wrists, a a a, of this
shaft are connected, seriatim, shaft are connected, 8eriatim,
the drag-bars, b b b, by means the drag-bars, b b b, by means
of bows or yokes, c, each bow of bows or yokes, -, each bow
or yoke taking two of said
or yoke taking two of said
wrists, as shown in Fig. 1. To wrists, as shown in Fig. 1. To
the rear ends of these drag- the rear ends of these drag-bars,
bars, b, are attached the shoes b, are attached the shoes or
or hoes, G, in any of the usual hoes, G, in any of the usual
well-known ways. In the pro- well-known ways. In the projecting rear portion of the main jecting rear portion of the main
frame C there is hufig'a shaft, frame 0 there is hung a shaft,
d, upon which there is a lever, d, upon which there is a lever,
e, by which it can be rocked or e, by which it can be rocked or
rolled in its bearings. At rolled in its bearings. At
suitable distances upon this suitable distances upon this
shaft c there is placed a series shaft d there is placed a series
of levers, ff, one for each shoe of leversff, one for each shoe
or hoe, which are kept in their or hoe, which are kept in their
proper positions on the shaft by proper positions on the shaft by
pins, 1, 1, or other suitable de- pins, 1, 1, or other suitable devices, but which can be moved vices, but which can be moved
independent of the shaft or df independent of the shaft or of
each other, -or all together, as each other, or all together, as
will be explained. The levers will be explained. The levers
f havA a hub or swell, g, at f have a hub or swell, g, at
their central portions, where their central portions, where
they are slipped on to the shaft they are slipped on to thu shaft
voL. CXVI-16

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

d; and into each one of these
hubs is set a pin, 2, which is
above the pins 1, 1, in the shaft,
so that each lever can be turned
upon the shaft; but, when the
shaft is rocked or turned, then
all the levers are worked simultaneously. To the forward
ends of these leversf the shoes
or hoes are respectively connected by a link or hinged rod,
A,the rearward-projecting ends
of said levers serving as handles
for the operator to seize and
work separately, when necessary to do so, or he can raise
the whole series by seizing and.
working the lever e. One end
of the shaft d projects through
the timber of the main frame,
for convenience of placing the
parts, and upon it is a lever, H,
and a spring-locking lever, i,
connected with it, both of which
levers the operator may grasp
'at once, and by pressure first
unlock the catch, and then move
the main lever, H, and the shaft
d,as well as the parts connected with it. The catch or locking-lever i takes into or against
a stop-plate, j, on the main
frame, when not otherwise controlled. The upper portion of
thelever H serves as a handle to
work it by, and to the lower
end of it is pivoted a rack-bar,
m, which takes into a pinion n,

d; and info each one of these
hubs is set a pin, 2, which is
above the pins 1, 1, in the shaft,
so that each lever can be turned.
upon the shaft; but, when the
shaft is rocked or turned, then
all the levers are worked simultaneously. To the forward
ends of these leversf the shoes
or hoes are respectively connected by a link or hinged rod,
h., the rearward-projecting ends
of said levers serving as handles
for the operator to seize arid
work separately, when necessary to do so, or he can raise
the whole series by seizing and
working the lever e. One end
of the shaft d projects through
the timber of the main frame,
for convenience of placing the
parts, and upon it is a lever, H,
and a spring-locking lever, i,

connected with it, both of which
levers the operator may grasp
at once, and by pressure first
unlock the catch and then move
the main lever, H, and the shaft
d, as well as the parts connected with it. The catch or locking-lever i takes into or against
the stop-plate, j, on the main
frame, when not otherwise controlled. The upper portion of
the lever. H serves as a handle
to work it by, and to the lower
end of it is pivoted a rack-bar
or connecting-rod m, which

BROWN v. DAVIS.
Opinion of the Court.

fastened on the end of the crank
or zigzag shaft F, and, when
the pinion n is turned, the crank
shaft is also turned, and, as it
is turned, it shifts the shoes or
hoes into a zigzag or a straight
line, as the case may be. When
the lever H, and the zigzag
shaft F, and their several connected and operative parts, are
in the positions shown by the
black lines in Figs. 1 and 3, the

shoes or hoes G are then in a
straight line across the machine; but, when the lever H
is shifted into the position
shown by the red lines in Fig.
3, it turns the shaft and moves
the parts connected with them,
and the shoes or hoes will then
stand in a zigzag line across
the machine, as shown by the
red lines, or in what may be
termed two lines, one in advance of the other; and, that
the shoes or hoes may be thus
moved into one or two lines,
and still be susceptible of being
raised up separately, or in their
series capacity, their connections and attachments must all
be hinged or yielding. When
there is an odd number of shoes
or hoes on the machine, the odd
one should be in the rear series,
in which case there would be
no necessity of locking the
lever H when the shoes were so

takes into a pinion, n, fastened
on the end of the crank or zigzag shaft F, and, when the
pinion n is turned, the crankshaft is also turned, and, as it is
turned, it shifts the shoes or
hoes into a zigzag br a straight
line, as the casemay be. When
the lever H, and the zigzagshaft
F, andthe connecting-barm., and
their several connecting and
operative parts, are in the
positions shown by the full
lines in Figs. 1 and 3, the shoes
or hoes G are then in a straight
line across the machine; but,
when the lever H is shifted into the position shown by the
dotted lines in Fig. 3, it turns
the shaft and moves the parts
connected with them, and the
shoes or hoes will then stand in a
zigzag line across the machine,
as shown by thefull lines, or in
what may be termed two lines,
one in advance of the other;
and, In. order that the shoes or
hoes may be thus moved into
one or two lines, and still be
susceptible of being raised up
separately, or in their series capacity, their connections and
the attachments must all be
hinged or yielding. When
there is an odd number of shoes
or hoes on the machine, the odd
one should be in the rear series,
in which case there would be no

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

arranged, as the greater resistance on the greater number
would always keep them so.
But, if an even number of shoes
be used, and an equal number
in each row, then the lever
would have to be locked or
fastened in both of its positions.
It is obvious that other mechanical devices may be used
for shifting the shoes or hoes
from a straight into a zigzag
line, or vice versa. I have devised several ways of accomplishing this movement, as, for
instanbe, a sheave, pulley, or
chain wheel may be keyed to
tie end of the crank shaft, and
to this sheave or wheel a chain
may be attached, and, passing around it, extend thence to
the lever, so that, by working
the leve-, the same effect would
be attained as by the rack and
pinion.

Another plan may be as follows: A crank or cross arms
may be placed on the turning
shaft, and, by means of con-

necessity of looking the lever
H when the shoes are so arranged, as the greater resisttance on the greater number
would always keep them so.
But, if an even number of shoes
be used, and an equal number
in each row, then the lever
would have to be locked or
fastened in both of its positions.
It is obvious that other mechanical devices may be used for
shifting the shoes or hoes from
a straight into a zigzag line,
or vice versa. I have devised
several ways of accomplishing
this movement. 1e rack-bar
or connecting-barm may be used
for this _purpose, and thereby
the shoes or hoes may be shifted
from a straightto a zigzag line,
or vice versa, said connectingbar m being held in position, if
desired,by any of the usual mechanical devices for that jurpose ; second, by means of a
sheave, pulley or chain wheel,
q?,hich may keyed to the end
of the crank-shaft, and to this
sheave or wheel a chain may be
attached, and, passing around
it, so that, by means thereof,
the same effect can be attained
as by the rack and pinion.
Another plan may be as follows: A crank or cross arms
may be placed on the turning
shaft, and, by means of a con-

BROWN v. DAVIS.
Opinion of the Court.

necting rods, which connect the necting rod or rods, the shaft
cranks or arms with the levers, may be turned by the operator,j
the shaft may be turned, and and the shoes thus thrown into
the shoes thus thrown into a a straight or zigzag line, as may;
straight or zigzag line, as may be desired; or, instead of the
be desired; or, instead of the crank-shaft, the shoes may be.
crank-shaft to shift the shoes, united in sets to different bars,'
the shoes may be united in sets which may be straight, both'
to different bars, which may bars being united to ',ross-bars:
be straight, both bars being or heads at their ends. Now,.
united to cross-bars or heads at by shifting the relations of
their ends. Now, by shifting these two bars, and by the
these two bars, they will shift means aforesaid,or by the conthe shoes attached to them, and necting-rod vb, the operator can
change theni into the positions shift the shoes or hoes attached
hereinabove described. When to them into the positions herethe hoes are set in a zigzag inabove described. When the
line, as above mentioned, and hoes are set in a zigzag line, as
are in that position raised up, above mentioned, and are in
a pin, 3, in the extreme end of that position raised up, a pin,
the shaft d, will take against a 3, in the extreme end of the
pin, 4, in the lever H, and -shaft d, will take against a pin,
thereby shifting the hoes into 4, in the lever H, and thereby
more nearly a straight line, as shifting the hoes into more
they rise, or into quite a straight nearly a straight line, as they,
line, depending upon the ex- rise, or into quite a straight
tent to which they are raised. line, depending upon the exr
tent to which they are raised.
Having thus fully described
Having now described my
my invention, what I claim invention, what I claim as new
therein as new and desire to and desire to secure by letters
secure by letters patent, is:
patent, is:
1. So attaching the shoes or 1. The shwes or hoes of a seedhoes of a seedplanter to the planter, attached to the main
main frame, as that, by means frame, substantially as deof a lever, or its equivalent, scribed, whereby they may be
said ehoes may be shifted fom simultaneously shifted from
a straight to a zigzag line, or a straight to a zigzag line, or

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

vice versa, at pleasure, substan- vice versa, by a single movement.
tially as described.

2. The shoes or hoes of a seedtion, with a series of shoes or planter, attached to the main
hoes that are capvable of being frame, substantially as dechanged from a straigt to a scribed, in combination with a
zigzag line, or vice versa, the so lever or its equivalent, whereby
connecting of said shoes, by in- they can be shifted, at the pleasdapeident levers, to the lifting- ure of the operator, from a
bar, as that they may be raised straight to a zigzag line, or vice
2. I also claim, in combina-

by the operatorindividually,or versa.
as a whole, substantially as described.
3. The shoes or hoes of a seed3. 1 also claim hinging the
shoe to both its drag-barand it8Planter, attached to the main
individual leier, so that the frame, substantially as deshoe may be raised and lowered scribed, in combination with a
in either of its changed posi- rod or its equivalent, whereby
tion, by a lever that is perma- they can be shifted from a.
ently located, substantially as straightto a zigzag line, or vice
versa.
desribed."

4. A series of shoes or hoes
that are capable of being
changed from a straight to a
zigzag line, or vice versa, in
combination with independent
levers, connecting said shoes or
hoes with the lifting-bar,whereby they can be raised by the
operator individually or as a
whole, -substantially as described.
5. The shoe hizged to both
its drag-barand its individuaj
lever, so that it can be raised or
lowered,in either of its changed
positions,by a lever that is8per-

BROWN v. DAVIS.
Opinion of the Court.

manently located, substantially
as described.
6. In combination with a
series of shoes or hoes that are
capable of being-changed by the
operator at the rear of the machine, fron a straight to a zigzag line, or vice versa, a shaft
and lifting lever connected
therewith, whereby the whole series can be raised at once by the
ogerator, to _pass obstructions,
substantially as described."
The cause was heard in the Circuit Court, on pleadings and
proofs, and a decision rendered in May, 1881, Davis v. Brown,
19 Blatchford, 263, in pursuance of which an interlocutory
decree was entered, in June, 1881, declaring the reissued
patent to be valid, and to have been infringed as to all its
claims, and awarding a recovery of profits and damages and a
perpetual injunction. On the report of a master, a final decree
was entered in February, 1882, by which the plaintiffs reThe defendants
covered $5689.91, as damages and costs.
have appealed to this court.
The specification of the origipal patent stated the purpose of
the invention to be, to change the seeding shoes or hoes from
a straight to a zigzag line, and vice versa; and, also, to so
hang the shoes or hoes, as, in addition to the shifting process,
to allow the shoes or hoes to be raised all together, or any one
separately. The mechanical means described in that specification, for shifting the shoes, are these: In the front part of the
machine is a rotating shaft, with cranks on it, so arranged
that the shaft does not have a straight continuous axis, but
has sets of axes in different lines, alternating, so that, yokes
being attached, each to two of the cranks, and each two of the
cranks having axes in a different line from the line of the axes
of the next two adjoining cranks, the yokes being of substantially equal length, and being connected by drag-bars, at

248

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

the rear ends of the drag-bars, to the shoes, a rotating motion
given to the crank-shaft will shift the shoes, by moving all of
them, each alternate shoe moving in an opposite direction from
that in which the shoe next to it moves, and thus a space being
opened or closed, of double the distance through which any shoe
travels. To rotate the crank-shaft, there is a cross shaft in the
rear of the machine, on the end of which is an upright lever,
which extends upwards to form a handle, and has pivoted to it
below a bar, which extends forward, and the forward end bf
which is formed into a rack, which works into a pinion on the
end of the crank-shaft. By moving the lever, the rack and
pinion are worked, and the crank-shaft is rotated, and the shoes
are shifted. The extent of the rotating movement of the crankshaft is about half a circle, back and forth. The original
specification says, that, instead of employing the crank-shaft,
the shoes may be united in sets to different bars, which may
be straight, both bars b(ang united to cross-bars or heads, at
their ends; and that, by shifting these two bars, the shoes
attached to them will be shifted. But there is no more specific
description of mechanism for the purpose, nor any drawing of
such mechanism.
In the defendants' machine, every alternate shoe is connected
with an immovable part of the frame, and every other alternate shoe is connected with a swinging cross-bar, which hangs
down so as to have a motion back and forth in the arc of a
circle, by reason of its being hung in bearings in the side of
the fratne. A rod extends from near the middle of the width
of the swinging cross-bar to the rear part of the frame, behind
the line from which the shoes are suspended, which rod is
supported in the "centre of its length, and terminates, at its
rear end, in a handle, so that an operator can work it, and, by
pulling it, shift simultaneously all the shoes that are' attached
to the swinging cross-bar. Two coiled springs are so arranged,
.that, when the rod is pulled, the springs are compressed, and,
when the rod is released, the action of the springs tends to
throw the swinging cross-bar and the shoes attached to it towards the front of the frame again, restoring them to the
position from which the pulling of the rod moved them. Thus,

BROWN v. DAVIS.

249

Opinion of the Court.
only alternate shoes are shifted, but the positions of the toes
of the shoes, relatively to each other, can be simultaneously
changed, and a wider space, in a straight line, be opened between any two toes at any time. The shoes are so set that
their toes are never in a straight line across, but, when nearest
to each other, are somewhat out of a straight line, and the
pulling of the rod causes the distance between them to increase.
The shoes which move in increasing such distance do so through
the rotating motion to and fro of the swinging cross-bar to
which they are attached, such motion being imparted by the
pulling, at the rear of the machine, of the rod attached to the
swinging cross-bar. In the plaintiffs' machine, the shoes which
move, in increasing such distance, do so through the rotating
motion to and fro of the crank-shaft to which they are attached, such motion being imparted by the pushing at the rear
of the machine of the rod that carries the rack, the rod being
worked by a lever.
An examination of the claims of the original and reissued
patents shows that claim 2 of the reissue is substantially the
same as claim 1 of the original; that claim - of the reissue is
substantially the same as claim 2 of the original; and that
claim 5 of the reissue is substantially the same as claim 3 of
the original.
The Circuit Court held that claim 2 of the reissue was infringed, although in the defendants' machine there is no lever
such as the lever H of the patent, and no equivalent or substitute for it. The view taken was, that claim 2 was infringed,
because the defendants use a rod, the end of which is pushed
and pulled by the hand of the operator, while in the patent
the lever T pulls and pushes the end of the rod. But the
lever, or its equivalent, as a mechanical instrument, is made an
essential element in claim 2, and dispensing with the lever,
and using instead the human hand, is not the use of an
equivalent, although in the plaintiffs' machine the. hand is applied to work the lever. Water Ifeter Co. v. Devyer, 101 U. S.,
332, 337; Gage v. Herring,107 U. S. 640, 648; Fay v. Cordeman, 109 U. S. 408, 420, 421; Sargent v. Hall Safe and Lock
Co., 114 tT. S. 63, 86.

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

In order to determine what construction ought to be given
to the other claims of the reissue, it is necessary to consider an
invention made by one Powers, at Madison, Wisconsin, in 1862,
the invention of Davis being carried back only, to September,
1866. During the winter of 1861-2, and the spring of 1862,
Powers -was selling, at Madison, grain drills with iron drag-bars.
During the season of 1862, noticing the working of drills in the
field, he conceived the idea that the shoes could be put into
single and double ranks by a more easy method than that then
used. iHe worked out a plan, and made. a model of it, and
applied for a patent, November 10, 1862. The patent was
ordered to issue December 6, 1862, but was never issued. The
reason is not stated. The specification filed states that the
"invention consists of a device to enable the shovels or plows
of a drill to be set in single or double rows or ranks, with greater
ease and facility than hitherto."- The method described and
shown in the drawings is to have a cross row of stationary
shovels; and a bross row of other shovels, attached to a crossbar, which is arranged, at each end of it, so as to slide to the extent of eight inches to and fro, in a groove. Thus, two rows
may be made, or the sliding cross-bar may be set at a point where
all the shovels will be in a line, and one row be formed. The
movable cross-bar is moved by hand, and secured, when set, by
bolts. The claim covers "the method of double and single
ranking the drill teeth, by the adjustment of the sliding crossbar A, to which are attached the alternate drill teeth or shovels,
to different positions between the side pieces of the frame."
The description states, that, "by this device, double or single
ranking can be effected in a moment, instead of the more tedious process of other similar machines," and that "double and
single ranking is a highly important feature in a drill, to adapt
it to different soils and circumstances." Powers put this shifting
arrangement "on to two or may be three drills" which he had
on hand. He testifies to the use of two of them, and says they
worked perfectly, so far as changing the rank of the drill was
concerned. This was a completed invention. The idea of
changing the relative positions of the shoes by having one row
of them stationary and moving the other, which is the idea de-

BROWN v. DAVIS.
Opinion of the Court.

veloped in the defendants' machine, was fully embodied in
Powers' machine. It had no lever and rod to do the work of
the hand in moving the sliding cross-bar, and that cross-bar
was held in position, when set, by bolts.
In view of this invention of Powers, we are of opinion that
the invention of the Davis patent must be limited, so far as
the shifting apparatus is concerned, to the special arrangement
of the rotating crank-shaft described, and shown in the drawings. The words "substantially as described," found in each
of the first two claims of the original patent, properly confined
those claims to the shifting mechanism described. If claim 1
of the reissue is given a construction which includes any arrangement for shifting not substantially using a rotating crankshaft, it becomes a claim which could not lawfully have been
granted in the original patent; and, as a claim in a reissued
patent, it is invalid, within the defences set up in the answer,
because the application for the reissue was made nearly eleven
years after the original patent was granted, and after machines
effecting the shifting by other means. than a rotating crankshaft had gone into use subsequently to the date of the original
patent, and no sufficient excuse is given for the laches and
delay. The same remarks apply to claim 3 of the reissue.
In view of the rulings of this court on the subject of reissued
patents, made since the decision in this case was made by the
court below, in May, 1881, this case must be considered in view
of the fact that the new matter introduced into the specification of the reissue was put in for the purpose of reaching
machines which the claims of the original patent would not
reach, and of laying a foundation for claims 1 and 3 of the reissue. The inventor and patentee, Davis, distinctly says this, in
his testimony. The principal interpolation is in these words :
"The rack-bar or connecting-rod rn may be used for this purpose, and thereby the shoes or hoes may be shifted from a
straight to a zigzag line, or vice versa, said connecting-bar in
being held in position, if desired, by any of the usual mechanical
devices for that purpose." In the original specification m is
called a "rack-bar," because it is pivoted at one end to the
lower end of the lever H, and has on its other end a rack tak-

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Syllabus.

ing into a pinion on the end of the crank-shaft. But, in the
reissue, m is called "a rack-bar or connecting-rod." Again, in
the reissue, the reference to the letter H, as connected withand working the chain to be used with the sheave or wheel, in
the second suggested alternative means of shifting, is erased, so
as fiot to make the use of the lever H necessary. Before these
changes, the defendants' machine, which has no lever and no.
rotating drank-shaft, would not have been within the scope of
the original claims, but, if the rack-bar were to become a connecting-rod, it was thought it might cover the rod in the defendants' machine. Claim 3 of the reissue was framed on this
view, of shifting by, a rod alone, while claim 1 is made so
broad as to seem to claim shifting by any means, by a single
movement.
As to claims 4, 5 and 6 of the reissue, the shifting mechanism
of the patent, with its rotating crank-shaft, must, in view of
tle Powers invention, be considered as an element in each
claim; and that mechanism is not used by the defendants.
It follows from these views, that
The decree of the Circuit Court must be reversed,and the case
remanded,with a direction, to dismiss the bill, with costs.

PRESSER v. ILLINOIS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.
Argued November 23, 24, 1885.-Decided January 4, 1886.

The doctrine that statutes, constitutional in part only, will be upheld as to
what is constitutional, if it can be separated from the unconstitutional provisions, reasserted.
A State statute providing that all able-bodied male citizens of the State
between eighteen and forty-five, except those exempted, shal be subject to
military duty, and shall be enrolled and designated as the State militia,
and prohibiting all bodies of men other than the regularly organized
volunteer militia of the State and the troops of the United States from associating together as military organizations, or drilling or parading with
arms in any city eL the State without license from the governor, as to

