352

OOTOBER TERM, 1885.
Syllabus in Stonev. k. 0.. & N. E. gailroad Co.

by Mississippi "toexempt the corporatiofi in that State from
proper legislative control, and the Illinois corporation, by going
into Mississippi to operate a railroad there, subjected itself to
such local legislation as would have been applicable to the corporation owning the road, if no lease had been made. As a
corporation of another State, it has no other privileges in Mississippi than such as belong to the corporation whose road it
runs.
The decree of the Circuit Court is reversed on the authority
of Stone v. Farmers' Loan'-and Trust Co., and the cause
is remzanded, with directions to dismiss the bill.
MR. JusTicE FIELD dissented from the opinion of the court
and the judgment in this case for the reasons expressed in.his
dissent in Stone v. Farmers'Loan and Trust Co., ante, 342.

MR. JUSTICE HARLAw also dissented for the reasons expressed
in his dissent in the same case, ante, 337.
MR. JUSTICE BLATCHFORD did not sit in this case or take any
part in its decision.

STONE & Others v. NEW ORLEANS & NORTHEASTERN RAILROAD COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF MISSISSIPPI.

A State statute providing that a railroad company may receive for transporting, carrying and telegraphing, such tolls and charges as might from time
to time be establisher], fixed and regulated by the directors, and that the
act should be construed liberally so as to favor its purposes and objects,
.provided,thatnothing in it should h construed as preventing the legislature
from regulatingthe rates of transportation for passengers and freight over the
road, and providedfutrther,that'there should be no discrimination in favor of
any road, does not deprive the State of its power, within the limits of its
general authority, as controlled by the Constitution of the United States, to
act upon the reasoniableness of the tolls and charges so established, fixed and
regulated. Subsequent legislation by the State fixing a maximum rate for
other railroads does not apply to this road by virtue of the proviso as to discrimination.

RAILROAD COMMISSION" CASES.
Argument for Appellee in Stone v. N. 0. & N. E. Railroad Co.

Like the last two cases, this was a suit in equity to enjoin the
Railroad Commissioners, and was heard with those cases. The
facts which make the case are stated in the opinion of the
court. The case was argued with Stone v. Farmers' Loan &
Trust Co., ante, 307, and Stone v. Jllflnoi8 Central Railroad Co.,
ante, 347, substantially the same questions being involved in the
three cases.
.Ar. Jhn TT C. Watson, for appellants.
.3f). George iloadly, Mr.Edgar .X.Johnson, Mr.Edward
Cotstn, and -Xr. MF.
L. Nugent for appellee. In addition to
the general line of argument in Stone v. Farmers' Zoan
and Trust Co., they presented the following facts as specially
applicable to the railroad for which they appeared.
- The appellee, the New Orleans and Northeastern Railroad
Company, is a corporation chartered by the State of Louisiana
by various act of the legislature of said State, to build and construct a railroad'; ard the appellee was, by an act of the legislature of Mississippi of March 30, 871, empowered to construct
a railroad from New Orleans, Louisiana, to Meridian, Mississippi, which it has since constructed as empowered in this act.
By said act it was further empowered to fix its own rates of
fares and freight subject to the following proviso:
"Provided that nothing contained in the charters shall be so
construed as to prevent the legislature from regulating the rate
of transportation for passage and freight over the same in the
State; provided, further, that there shall be no discrimination
in favor of any road."
This act containing no power to amend, alter, or repeal, and.
subject to no such power, was accepted by the company and
acted upon; and, until the passage of the act complained of,
the appellee had at all times exercised the power to fix its own
charges.
The appellee is engaged'in the transportation of persons and
property as part of a through line between the States of Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama, Georgia, Tennessee, Kentucky, Ohio,
and many others, and is engaged in commerce among 'the several States.
VOL. cxvI-23

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court in Stone v. N. 0. & N. E. Railroad Co.

CnrixF JUSTIoF. WAITE delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a suit brought by the New Orleans and Northeastern
Railroad Company to enjoin the railroad commission from enforcing the railroad supervision law of Mississippi against that
company. It differs from the cases of qtone v. Farmer8' Zoan
and Trust Company, ante, 307, and Stone v. illinoi8s Central Railroad Company, ante, 347, already decided, only in the
charter provisions on which the claim of a contract exemption
from legislative control as to fares and freights is made.
These are as follows:
"Sxc. 4.- Be it further enacted, That said company is hereby
authorized and empowered to transport, carry, and convey persons and property on said railroad; to build and maintain a
line of magnetic telegraph, and to operate the same along the
line of said railroad, and to receive for such transportation, carrying, conveying, and telegraphing, such tolls and charges as
shall be from time to'time established, fixed, and regulated by
the directors of said railroad company."
"SEc. 18. Be it further enacted, That whenever any number
of stockholders, representing three-fourths of the stock now
subscribed to said railroad company, shall accept the powers,
privileges, and franchises contained in the preceding sections of
this act, the said company shall avail themselves of the benefit
thereof, and that this act shall be liberally and favorably construed, so as to favor all the purposes and objects of the same
and the operation of the provisions thereof; Provided, That
nothing contained in the charter shall be so construed as to prevent the legislature from regulating the rate of transportatiofi
for passage and freight over the same in this State; Provided
.further,That there shall be no discrimination in favor of any
road."
On their face and under the rulings in the other cases these
sections show no such contract. It is averred in the bill, however, and admitted by the demurrer, that in 1882 the State
granted charters to six 6ther railroad companies, in each of
which a maximum of rates was fixed. After setting forth the
special i~rovisions of the charters in this particular, the bill proceeds as follows:
Nit.

RAILROAD COMMISSION CASES.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, 11arlan, JJ., in Stone v.N.O. & n.E. Railroad Co.

"And your orator is therefore advised, believes, and charges,
that, as the said legislature, by the proviso to the 18th section
of the said act of March 30th, 1871, reserved to itself the right
'to i'egulate the rate of transportation for passage and freight'
on your orator's road in said State of Mississippi, but only upon
condition and with the limitation that in and by such act of
regulation there should be no discrimination in favor.of any
road in said State, and against your orator, the charter clause
above referred to becomes and is integrated into, and forms
part of, your orator's said charter, and the legislature having
thus exercised and exhausted its power of regulating tariffs in
respect to the several railroad companies above set out, is by
the terms of your orator's charter precluded from making any
other or different system for regulating your orator's tariff in
said State, or devising any other tariff of charges for it, else
your orator would be discriminated against contrary to the
true intent and meaning of the last proviso to section 18th of
said act of March 30th, 1871."
To this we cannot agree. The, provision in the charter of
the New Orleans and Northeastern Company, that in fixing
rates there shall be no discrimination in favor of any other
road, does not bring into that charter the rate clauses in the
charters of the new companies. It will undoubtedly be the
duty of the commissioners when fixing the tariff for this company to see that there is no such discrimination as is provided
against. Whether in doing so it will be necessary to have regard to the rates allowed by the later charters, is not a question
in this case.
Tlte deree of the CGrcuit Court is reversed om the authorityof
Stone v. The _Farmers' Loan and TVust Co., and the cause
remanded, with instructionsto dismiss the bill.

MR. JUSTICE Hl~a iRLN, with whom concurred Mi. JUSTICE
F]ELD, dissenting.
It seems clear that the power reserved to the legislature of
regulating rates of transportation for passengers and freight
over the road of the complainant is subject to the condition
that there shall be no discrimination against it in favor of any

I OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Syllabus.

other company. In other words, the complainant has a contract with the State that protects it against such discrimination
in the matter of rates. If this were not so, it could not well
be the duty of the railroad commission, as the court declares,
to see that the discrimination provided against by the company's charter did not exist.
Adhering to the general views expressed by me in the preceding cases, I dissent from the opinion and judgment in this
case.
-MR.
JusIEPc

FIELD concurs in this dissent.

MR. JUSTICE BLATOHFORD did not sit in this case or take any

part in its decision.

ANDERSON v. SANTA ANNA.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF

THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
Argued November25, 1885.-Decided Jannary 4, 1886.

When, at the time of creating and issuing a negotiable evidence of indebtedness of a municipal corporation in a State, the highest court of a State has
construed the law under which it purports to be issued, rights accruing
under that construction will not be affected merely by subsequent decisions
of the same court, varying or departing from it.
When negotiable evidences of indebtedness of a municipal corporation in a
State are created and issued under laws which have not, at the time of
issue, been construed by the highest court of the State, its subsequent construction of them is not conclusive on Federal courts, although they will
lean to an agreement of views with the State court.

This was a suit'at law to recover on municipal bonds issued
in payment of a subscription to railroad stock. The facts
which make the case are stated in the opinion of the court.
.A1r'. Lavwrence fXaaxwell, d.., for plaintiff in error. !2lr.Wi'lZam X. Rameey and /A1. George IF.Gere also filed a brief
for same.

ANDERSON v. SANTA ANNA.
Opinion of the Court.

No appearance for defendant in error.
M . JUSTICE IIARuAx delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an action to recover from the township of Santa
Anna, established under the general township organization
laws of Illinois, the amount of certain negotiable bonds, with
interest coupons attached, signed by its supervisor and clerk,
and purporting to have been issued by it, on the 1st day of
October, 1867, "under and by virtue of a law of the State of
Illinois, entitled' An act to amend the articles of association of
the Danville, Urbana, Bloomington and Pekin Railroad Company, and to extend the powers of and confer a charter upon
the same,' approved February 28, 1867, and in accordance with
the vote of the electors of said township, at the special election
held July 21, 1866, in accordance with said act." Each bond,
also, recites that the faith of the township is "pledged for the
payment of said principal sum and interest."
The Circuit Court sustained a demurrer to the declaration
and amended declaration, and-gave judgment for the township.
The act of February 28, 1867, empowered the railroad company to locate and construct a railroad from Pekin, in Tazewell
County, through, or as near to as practicable, certain named
towns, to the eastern boundary of the State of Illinois. For
the purpose of aiding in its construction, authority was given
to incorporated towns or townships in counties acting under
the township organization law, along the route of the road, to
subscribe to the capital stock of the company in any sum not
exceeding $250,000.
By the 13th section of the act it is provided:
"ยง 13. No such subscription shall be made until the question
has been submitted to the legal voters of such incorporation,
town, or township in which the subscription is proposed to be
made; -and the clerk of each of said towns or townships is
hereby required, upon the presentation of a petition signed by
at least ten citizens, who are legal voters and tax-payers of such
town or township for which he is clerk, and in which petition
the amount proposed to be subscribed shall be stated, to post
ur. notices in at least three public places in each town or town-

