FORD v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

FORD v. UNITED STATES.
APPRAL FROM THE COURT OF CLADiM.
Submitted December 18, 1885.-Decided January 4, 16.

The jurisdiction of the Court of Claims over cases referred to it by one House
of Congress is subject to provisions of general statutes of limitation regulating that jurisdiction.

This was an appeal from the Court of Claims. The facts
are stated in the opinion of the court.
.rM. Gilbert foyers and Mr. George S. BoutwelZ for appellant.
X)1. A~torney]-General for appellee.
Mn. JUSTIolHALff delivered the opinion of the court.
By resolution of the Senate of the United States adopted on
the 23d of February, 1885, a bill pending before that body for
the relief of William G. Ford, administrator of John G.' Robinson, deceased, was referred, "in accordance with the provisions of article, one of section 1059 of the Revised Statutes,
to the Court of Clims, together with the vouchers, papers,
proofs, and documents appertaining thereto."
The bill to which the resolution referred was as follows:
"A bill for the relief of William G. Ford, administrator of
John G. Robinson, deceased.
"Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives
of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That
the claim of William G. Ford, administrator of John G. Robinson, deceased, for the interests of the American legatees of the
said Robinson, which were not provided for in the award of
the mixed commission unc'er the Treaty of Washington of tho
date of September twenty-fourth, eighteen hundred and
seventy-three, be, and the same is hereby, referred to the Court
of Claims, relieved from the bar of the statute of limitations ;
and the said Court of Claims is authorized to receive as evi-

OOTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Ciurt.

dence, at its discretion, the testimony already taken by said
mixed commission in the said case, as though taken over again,
and either party may take further and additional testimony,
Under the order and rules of the court, as in other cases: Provided, That before final judgment shall be rendered by the
said court the said William G. Ford shall duly execute, according to law, a new administration bond, in such .penalty and
with such sureties as the said court shall deem sufficient and
approve."
The petition of the claimant was filed in the Court of Claims
on the 10th of March, 1885. It represented that he was a
citizen of the United States, and a resident of the city of New
York; that John G. Robinson was born in England, and was
a subject of Great Britain, residing during the recent civil war
in New Orleans; that, on or about March 7,1863, his intestate
purchased of one Robert B. Hurt, of Madison County,
Tennessee, 238 bales of cotton, worth about $88,260, which
was delivered to said Robinson, at Ponchatoula, Louisiana, on
or about the date last named; that the cotton "was seized by
the United States military authorities, under command of
General Banks, and under the direction of said authorities the
same was sold in New Orleans, and the pro~eeds thereof appropriated to the use and benefit of the United States Government;" that his claim, as administrator of Robinson, for the
proceeds of such sale, was, on or about the 25th of March,
187.2, presented to the mixed commission on British and American claims, under the 12th article of the treaty of May 8, 1871,
and by that commission was allowed to the extent of only
$29,638, in gold, as the value of the interest of Mary G.
Barker, the only surviving legatee under the will of Robinson,
who was a British subject; that petitioner believed that award
to be unjust to the devisees under the will of Robinson, who
were citizens of the United States, and petitioned Congress for
relief; that his petition, with vouchers, etc., were referred by
the Senate to the Court of Claims, under § 1059 of the Revised
Statutes; and that said Robinson died in Biloxi, Mississippi, on
or about August 25, 1869, without having given any aid or

FORD v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

comfort to the rebellion. He prayed judgment against the
United States for $66,195, which was the balance of the proceeds derived from the sale of the cotton.
In the Court of Claims the United States moved to dismiss
the petition, upon the ground that the action was barred by
the limitation of six years prescribed by § 1069 of the Revised
Statutes. Subsequently, a general demurrer to the petition
having been filed, the case was heard upon the motion to dismiss, as well as upon the demurrer. The motion to dismiss
was denied, but the action, in the opinion of that court, being
barred by the limitation of two years prescribed by the Captured and Abandoned Property Act of March 12, 1863, was
dismissed.
By § 1059 of the Revised Statutes the Court of Claims has
jurisdiction to hear and determine the following, among other
matters: "First, all claims founded upon any law of Congress,
or upon any regulation of an executive department, or upon
any contract, expressed or implied, with the Government of the
United States, and all. claims which may be referred to it by
either House of Congress.

.

.

Foutth. Of- all claims for

the proceeds of captured or abandoned property, as provided
by the act of March 12, 1863, ch. 120, entitled 'An act to provide for the collection of abandoned property, and for the prevention of frauds in insurrectionary districts within the United
States,' or by the act of July 2, 1864, ch. 225, being an act in
addition thereto: Provided, That the remedy given in cases
of seizure under the said acts, by preferring claim in the Court
of Claims, shalf be exclusive, precluding the owner of any
property taken by agents of the Treasury Department as
abandoned or captured property in virtue or under color of
said acts, from suit at common law, or any other mode of
redress whatever, before any court other than said Court of
Claims: Provided also, That the jurisdiction of the Court of
Claims shall not extend to any claim against the United
States growing out of the destruction, or appropriation of, or
damage to, property by the Army or Navy engaged in the
suppression of the rebellion." 18 Stat. 318, ch. 80.
The act of March 12, 1863, providing for the collection and

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.

Opinion of the Court.

disposition of captured or, abandoned property, permits any
person claiming to have been the owner of any such propdrty,
"at any time within two years after the suppression of the
rebellion," to "prefer his clhim. to the proceeds thereof in the
Court of Claims." 12 Stat. 820.
Section 1069 provides that "every claim against the United
States, cognizable by the, Court of Claims, shall be forever
barred, unless the petition setting forth a statement thereof is
fied in the court or transmitted to it by the Secretary of the
Senate, or the clerk of the House of Representatives, as provided by law, within six years after the claim first accrues:
Provided,That thb claims of married women first accrued
during marriage, of persons under the age of twenty.one years,
first accrued during minority, and of idiots, lunatics, insane
persons, and persons beyond the seas at the time the claim
accrued, entitled to the claim, shall not be barred, if the petition be filed in the court, or transmitted, as aforesaid, within
three years after the disability has ceased; but no other disability than those enumerated shall prevent any claim from
being barred, nor shall any of the said. disabilities operate
cumulatively." 12 Stat. 767, ch. 92.
The assignments of error assume that the reference by the
Senate to the Court of Claims of the bill before that body for
the relief of claimant, had the effect to invest that court with
full jurisdiction to hear and determine his claim, relieved from
any bar arising from limitation, whether the limitation of
six years prescribed by § 1069 of the Revised Statutes,
(which is brought forward from the act of "March 3, 1863,
amendatory of the act of 1855, establishing the Court of
Claims), or that of two years, established by the Captured and
Abandoned Property Act of March 12, 1863.
The statutes regulating the jurisdiction of the Court of
Claims do not sustain this position. It is undoubtedly within
the power of Congress to place claims referred to that court
by the Senate or by the House of Representatives, on a better
footing than other claims, by providing that they may be determined upon their merits, without reference to lapse of time,
or any previous bar by limitation. But Congress had no pur-

FORD v. 'UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

pose by its general legislation to establish such a policy. It
has, in special cases, invested the Court of Claims with jpuris-

diction to determine a claim, relieved of the bar of limitation.
Such was Erwin's case, arising under the Captured and Abandoned Property Act, the purpose of the statute which referred
it being construed as manifesting the intention of Congress, in
respect of that particular claim, to remove the bar of limitation, and, without otherwise changing the claimant's position
from what it would have been had he instituted suit in proper
time, to permit an adjudication of the claim upon its merits.
Erwin v. United State8, 97 U. S. 392. No such result can be
reached inthis case, because Congress has not referred the demand of the claimant to the Court of Claims for determination. The clause of the statute investing that court with jurisdiction to hear and determine all claims referred to it "by
either House of Congress," must be interpreted in the light of
other clauses defining its jurisdiction, and fixing in respect
of all claims, the period within which they must be asserted
against the United States. Congress, by statute, which has
received the approval of the President, has declared that all
claims specifically for the proceeds of captured or abandoned
property, must be brought within two years after the suppression of the rebellion; that the jurisdiction of the Court of
Claims shall not extend to claims growing out of the destruction or appropriation of, or damage to, property by the army
or navy engaged in the suppression of the rebellion; and that
except where the claimant is laboring under certain disabilities, that have no application here, every claim against the
United States, cognizable by the Court of Claims, shall be forever barred, unless filed in that court, or transmitted to it by
certain officers, within six years after the claim first accrued.
The argument here is that these statutory provisions are suspended in their operation as to every claim belonging to either
of these classes, which one branch of Congress chooses to refer
to the Court of Claims. Any such interpretation must be
rejected. It is unreasonable to suppose that Congress mtended to invest one of its branches with authority to suspend
a general statute of limitation. Every claim cognizable by

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

the Court of Claims must be determined with reference to the
limitation prescribed for claims of the class to which it
belongs, unless Congress, by statute, otherwise directs. The
Court of Claims has jurisdiction to hear and determine a claim
referred to it by either House of Congress, because, and only
because, the law-making power has so declared; but unless*
Congress otherwise prescribes, that reference will not itself
entitle the claimant to a judgment, if his claim is not well
founded in law, or, when so referred, was barred by limitation.
He acquires no new right by the reference, except to demand
that his claim be heard and determined by the court, just as
would have been done, had it been one of which the court
(tould have taken cognizance by the voluntary suit of the
claimant.

Had he chosen, before going to Congress, to sue in

the Court of Claims, he would have been confronted with the
statute of limitations. He cannot avoid that obstacle by procuring from one branch of Congress a reference of his claim to
that court.
This construction of the statutes requires an affirmance of
the judgment; for, if it was intended by the petition to present a claim under the Captured and Abandoned Property
Act of 1863, it is barred by the limitation of two years prescribed for all claims under that statute; if it was intended to
present a claim growing out of the appropriation of property
by the army engaged in the suppression of the rebellion, the
act of February 18, 1875, 1, 5tat. 318, now the last proviso in
subdivision four of § i059 of the Revised Statutes, excludes
all jurisdiction to hear and determine it; and, if his claim is
of the class defined in § 1069, it is barred by the limitation
of six years.
eJudgren! affirmed.

