OCTOBER.TERM, 1885.

5,72

Syllabus.
the obligation of the contract 'of the State, is unconstitutional,
and therefore null and void.
The'rejoinder of the defendant allowed t'obe filed after the
judgment of reversal, therefore, sought again-to draw in question the very matter which had been already finally adjudged
by this court in the same case. It did not deny the genuineness
of the coupons tendered, nor the fact of tender, and the question of law broadly decided on the demurrer to the replication
.necessarily involved every defence, arising as matter of law, that
could be made upon any existing acts of the General Assembly
of Virginia, for the whole law of the case, as to the plaintiff's
legal right to recover on his cause of action, was presented by
the pleadings, and was concluded by the judgment of reversal.
S. 464-, "that question
As was said in Clark v. -eith, 106 T11.
is no longer open in this case, for the reason that it has long
been settled that whatever has been decided here on one writ
of error cannot be re-examined on a subsequent writ brought in
the same suit. This rule was distinctly stated in Suqervisors v.
Xennicott, 94 U. S. 498, where numerous authorities are citedi
beginning as early as Himely v. Rose, 5 Oranch, 313."
Te judogment8 of the Svpreme Court of .Apeals and o the
Circuit Court of Henrico County, 'irginia,are therefore
reversed, and the cause 8 remanded to the said Circuit
Court, with instructionsto takefurtherproceedings in accordance with law, and in conformity with this opinion.

ROYALL v. VIRGINIA.
ER O

TO

THE SUPREME

COURT OF APPEALS OF THE

STATE OF

VIRGINIA.
Argued January 7,8, 1886.-Decided February 1, 18W.

An assessment made by a statute of Virginia a condition precedent to obtaining a license for pursuing a business or profession within the State, is a tax,
debt, or demand within the meaning of the act of that State of March S0.,

ROYALL v. VIRGINIA.
Statement of Facts.
1871, making coupons on the bonds of the State receivable for "taxes,
debts, dues and demands due the State."
The "separate revenue license," which persons authorized and licensed to practise as attorneys at law in the courts of Virginia are required by the statutes of that State to obtain befclre practising, is a tax laid for revenue, and
not an exaction for purposes of regulation.
When a statute of a State imposes license taxes for purposes of revenue upon
persons pursuing lawful occupations and professions within the State, and
a State officer charged with the duty of issuing licenses thereunder, acting
in obedience to a statute of the State which is in conflict with the Constitution of the United States, refuses to issue such a license to a person -whohas
duly tendered the amount required by law to be paid for it, the person tendering the payment, if otherwise qualified to pursue the occupation, is not
required to proceed by mandamus to compel the issue of the license, and to
await the result of those proceedings before entering upon the pursuit or
occupation.
After lawful tender to the proper State officer of the requisite amount of coupons (receivable by the terms of the act of the State of Virginia of March
30, 1871, in payment of taxes, debts, dues, and demands due the State) for
a "separate revenue license," by a person otherwise duly authorized and
liceused to practise as an attorney at law, and after refusal by that officer
to receive the same or to issue the "separate revenue license." the person
so making the tender may at once enter upon the practice of his profession;
and any law of the State subjecting him to criminal proceedings therefor is
in conflict with the Constitution of the United States.

The plaintiff in error was convicted, in the Hustings Court
of the City of Richmond, of the misdemeanor under the laws
of Virginia of practising law as a lawyer without having first
obtained a license so to do from the commissioner of the
revenue.
To the information the plaintiff in error filed the following
plea:
"And for a plea in this behalf the said William L. Royall
comes and says that he is an attorney-at-law, duly licensed and
qualified to practise law in the courts of the State of Virginia,
under the laws of said State, and that he has been such for
more than five years; that on the 1st day of May, 1884, he
paid to Samuel 0. Greenhow, who is the treasurer of the city
of Richmond, Virginia, twenty-five dollars and seventy-five
cents, and received from him and the commissioner of the
revenue a revenue license as a lawyer for one year from that
date; that he has not practised his profession as a lawyer in

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

thq courts of said State between the 1st day of May, 1885, and
the 11th day of July, 1885; that on the 11th day of July, 1885,
he tendered to-Seaton G. Tinsley, who is the deputy for Samuel
C. Greenhow, one coUlon for fifteen dollars and ten dollars in
United States Treasury notes, in payment of his license tax as
an attorney-at-lawr for the ensuing year, and seventy-five cents
in silver coin fo'r the fee of the commissioner of the revenue;
that said coupon was cut from a bond issued by the State of
Virginia, under the provisions of an act of the General Assembly, approved March 30, 1871, entitled 'An act to provide
for the funding and payment of the public debt;' that it was
overdue and past maturity, and bore upon its face the contract
'of the State of Virginia that it should be received in payment
all taxes, debts, demands, and dues due to the said State;
,of
that
when he made said tender he demanded of said Greenhow
a certificate in writing stating that he had deposited with him
said coupon and money, but the said Greenhow, by his said
deputy, refused to receive said coupon and money for any purpose whatever, and refused to give him said certificate or any
other certificate;- that he refused to receive said coupon and
money, because an act of the General Assembly of the State
of Virginia, approved February 7th, 1884, forbade him to receive said license tax in coupons, and because the 112th section
of an act of the General Assembly of said State, approved
March 15th, 1884, provides that all license taxes shall be paid
in current money of the United States, and not in coupons;.
that thereupon the defendant made the affidavit hereto attach6d, marked 'A,' and presented it to R. 3. Munford, who is
the commissioner of the revenue for the city of Richmond, and
'demanded of him a revenue license as an attorney-at-law, and
at the same time he presented to the said Munford the paper
hereto attached, marked ' B,' and at the same time he offered to
pay the said Munford any and all fees that he was entitled to
receive before issuing said license, but the said Munford refused
to issue to defendant a license as an attorney-at-law; that thereafter defendant accepted the employment of a client who was
being prosecuted for a misdemeanor in this honorable court, and
assisted in his defence, and thus practised his profession'as a

ROYALL v. VIRGINIA.
Statement of Facts.

lawyer without a revenue license, but said professional act was
done after defendant had made the efforts hereinbefore described
to obtain a revenue license, and this he is ready to verify."
The affidavit referred to in the plea set forth the facts of the
tender, and the paper marked "B" was the usual form, of an
application for a revenue license.
To this plea the Commonwealth filed a general demurrer,
which was sustained by the court, on the ground that the defendant had no right to practise his profession as an attorneyat-law after the tender of the coupons and money, as described
in the plea, without first having obtained a license therefor.
The defendant then pleaded not guilty, and a trial was had, resulting in a verdict finding the defendant guilty and assessing
his fine at*$30.
During the progress of the trial a bill of exceptions was duly*
taken, as follows:
"Be it remembered that on the trial of this cause the same
was submitted to the jury upon the following agreed statement
of facts, to wit:
"' It is admitted as evidence in the case of the Commonwealtk
v. Royall that said Royall did not practise his profession as
attorney.at-law between May 1,1885, and July 11, 1885, and
that on the latter day he tendered to the treasurer of the city
of Richmond a coupon issued by the State of Virginia under
the provisions of the act of March 30, 1871, for the sum of
$15.00 and $10.75, lawful money of the United States, in payment of his license tax for the ensuing year, and demanded his
license of the proper officer; that said coupon was receivable
in payment of all taxes, debts, and demands due said State;
that said tender was refused.; that thereupon the defendant
practised his profession as an attorney after said tender, but
not before, without revenue license, but the said defendant has
for more than five years been duly licensed to practise law
under the laws of Virginia. It is further agreed that the
license tax on the defendant as an attorney-at-law is twentyfive dollars ($25).'
"Thereupon the defendant moved the court to instruct the
jury as follows:

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

"'If the jury believe from the evidence that the defendant did
not practise his profession of attorney-at-law between the 1st
day of May, 1885, and the 11th day of July, 1885, and that on'
the 11th day of July, 1885, he tendeied to the treasurer of the
city of Richmond a coupon for $11"0, issued by the State of
Virginia under the provisions of the act of assembly approved
March 30, 1871, which coupon, by provisions of said act, was
receivable for all taxes, debts, and demands due said State, and
ten dollars and seventy-five cents, in lawful money of the
United States, in payment of his license tax, which said tax is
,$25, and 75 cents commissioner's fee, for the then ensuing year,
and that said tender was refused by'said treasurer, then they
are instructed they must find the defendant not guilty.'
"Which instructions the court refused -to give. To the
couit's action in refusing which instructions. the defendant excepts, and tenders this his first bill of exceptions, and prays
that this his bill of exceptions be signed, sealed, and made a
part of the record; which is accordingly done."
Judgment was entered on the verdict for the payment of
the fine, and execution awarded. The record contained the following:
"And, at the instance of the defendant, the court certifies
that in the record and at the trial of this cause there was drawn
in question the validity of section 86 of chapter 34 of the Code
-ofVirginia of 1873, and an act of the General Assembly of
said State, approved February

',1884,

entitled 'An act to

regulate the granting of licenses for the exercise of any privi.
lege,' and the 112th section of an act of the General Assembly
of 'said State, approved March 15, 1884, entitled 'An act to
provide for the assessment of taxes on'-persons, property, and
incomes,' &c., upon the ground, that, so far as they undertake
to inflict punishment upon the defendant for practising his profession as an attorney-at-law without a license, after having
tendered the State's tax-receivable coupons in payment of his
license tax,*they are repugnant to section 10 of article L of the
Constitution of the United States.
"But the court being of opinion that the defendant had no
-right to practise the profession of an attorney-at-law without

ROYAILL v. VIRGINIA.
Opinion of the Court.

a license after he had tendered payment of his license tax in
coupons, decided and gave judgment that said section of said
code and said acts of the General Assembly are not repugnant
to section 10 of article I. of the Constitution of the United
States in that behalf, and it decided and gave judgment in
favor of the validity of said section of said code and said act of
assembly."
The Supreme Court of Appeals denied a petition praying for
an allowance of a writ of error, and to reverse that judgment
this writ of error was prosecuted.
This case was argued with Barry v. Edmunds, ante, 550;
COaffl v. Taylor, ante, 567;. and Sands v. .Edmunde, post,
585.
.Mr&. William L. 1?oyall and .Mr. Daniel
plaintiff in error.

. Chamberlain for

-2Ir. Bi. A. Ayres and -Mr. Wfalter 1B. Staples for defendant
inerror.
M. JusToi M.:TrmFws delivered the opinion of the court.
After stating the facts as reported above he continued:
The Virginia Code of 1873, Title 12, ch. xxxiv, ยง 60, provides
that "no person shall, without a license authorized by law,
practice as an attorney at law ;" and ยง 61, that "every attorney
at law, in addition to being licensed, sworn and admitted to
prosecute or defend actions or other proceedings in the courts
of this commonwealth, on the retainer of clients, shall obtain a
revenue license, and no person shall act as attorney-at-law, or
practise law in the courts of this commonwealth, without a
separate revenue license." This revenue license, it will be
observed, is different from and in addition to the license to
practise law, given only to such as on examination, as to their
character and acquirements, are found to be duly qualified
therefor. The amount of this revenue license was fixed by an
act of March 15, 1884, at $15. for those who had been licensed
to practice for less than five years, and at $25 for all others.
Section 86 of ch. 34 of the Virginia Code of 1873 provides that
voL. oX-37T

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

"any person who shall engage in or exercise any business,
employment or profession, without a license, if a license be
required by law, or shall in any manner violate the license or
revenue laws of the State, if no specific fine is imposed for such
violation, shall pay a fine of not less than thirty dollars nor
more than one thousand dollars."
The act of February 7, 1884, Acts of Virginia, 1883-'84, 120,
enacts that no application for a license to do any business, or
to follow any profession, trade or calling in that State, shall be
made, and if made shall not be considered, except upon
compliance with its provisions, which, among other things, require -that the amount of the assessment prescribed by law as a
condition precedent shall accompany the. application, in gold
or silvef coin, 'United States Treasury notes or national bank
notes.
Section 112 of the act of March 15, 1884, Acts of Virginia,
1883-'84, 603, also provides that "applications for licenses
shall be made, and all taxes assessed by chapter one of this act
shall be paid in lawful money of the United States, in the mode
and subject to the provisions of an act to regulate the granting
'of licenses, approved the seventh day of February, eighteenhundred and eighty-four," &c.
By the terms of the act of March 30, 1871, the coupons
tendered in this case were made receivable for "all taxes, debts,
dues, and demands due the State," and this stipulation, as has
been repeatedly decided by the Court of Appeals of Virginia
aid by this court, constituted a contract between the couponholder and the State of Virginia, the obligation of-which the
State is forbidden to impair by the Constitution of the United
States, and any law of the State which would have that effect
if enforced, is thereby annulled and made void. To this point
are the cases of Antoni v.. TWr'ig, 22 Grattan, 833; Tie v.
2Rogerm, 24 Grattan, 169, and Clar"ke v. Tylm, 30 Grattan, 134,
in the Court of Appeals of Virginia; and in this court the
cases of Hiartman v. Greenhow, 102 U. S. 672; AnIoni v.
6eenhow, 107 U. S. 769, and Poin&xter v. Green ow, 114
U. S. 270. In Hartman v. Greenhow, ubi uPr, it was shown
that the consideration for this stipulation was a surrender by

ROYALL v. VIRGINIA.
Opinion of the Court.

its creditors of one-third of their claim against the State.

In

Antoni v. Greenhow, 107 U. S. 769, 775, it was said: "The
right of the coupon-holder is to have his coupon received for
taxes when offered ;" and, "Any act of the State which forbids
the receipt of these coupons for taxes is a violation of the contract and void as against coupon-holders." p. 771. In Poindextetr v. Greenhow, 114 U. S. 270, 281, no point in which was
reopened in the argument of this cause, it was said: "It is well
settled by many decisions of this court that .for the purpose of
affecting proceedings to enforce the payment of taxes, a lawful tender of payment is equivalent to actual payment, either
being sufficient to deprive the collecting officer of all authority
for further action and making every subsequent step illegal and
void ;" a proposition founded on the authority of IFoodru v.
Trapnall, 10 How. 190; U ited States v. Zee, 106 U. S. 196;
Bennett v. IHnter, 9 Wall. 326; Tacey v. Irwin, 18 Wall.
549; Atwood v. lTeem , 99 U. S. 183; and H'I/ v. Exchange
Bank, 105 U. S. 319.
That charges, or, as they are called in the statutes, assessments made by law as conditions precedent to obtaining licenses
for pursuing a business or profession, are included within the
meaning of the words, "taxes, debts, dues, and demands due
the State," as used in the act of March 30, 1871, does not seem
to admit of reasonable doubt. In Clarke v. . Tyler, 30 Grattan,
13-, it was adjudged by the Court of Appeals of Virginia that
a fine imposed for a violation of law could be discharged under
this provision in coupons in lieu of money. So that upon the
authority of that case the very fine imposed by the Hustings
Court of Richmond upon the plaintiff in error for practising
law without a revenue license may lawfully be paid and dis.
charged in the very coupons which were tendered in payment
of the license itself and refused. Surely such an anomaly cannot be justified or admitted. The payment required as a preliminary to the license is in the nature and form of a tax, and
is a due to the State which it iray demand and exact from'
every one of its citizens who either will or must follow some
business avocation within its limits, to the pursuit of which the
assessnient is made a condition precedent. It is an occupation

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.Opinion of the Court.

-tax,for which *the license is merely a receipt and not an authority, except in that sense, because it is laid and collected as
revenue, and not merely as incident to the general police power
.'ofthe State, which, under certain circumstances and conditions,
regulates certain employments with a view to the public health,
comfort, and convenience. In the latter class of cases the exactions may be either fees or fines, as they are proportioned to
the expense of regulation, or laid as a burden upon and a discouragement to the business, and not taxes which are levied
for the purpose of raising public revenue by means of a contribution either from the person or the property or the occupation of all citizens in like circumstances. It was, therefore, in
โข the character of a tax that the payments were required and
made for licenses issued under the internal revenue acts of the
United States. ]IfcGuire v. The Commonwealth, 3 Wall. 387.
Speaking of them in the Zicense Taxo Case, 5 Wall. 462, 471,
Chief-Justice Chase said: "The granting of a license, therefore, must be regarded as nothing more than a mere form of
imposing a tax," &c., and that "this construction is warranted
by the practice of the government from its organization. . .
, They were regarded merely as a convenient mode of imposing,
taxes on several descriptions of business, and of ascertaining
the parties from whom such taxes were to be collected. . .
But, as we have -already said, these licenses give no authority.
!They axe mere receipts for taxes." The license under the laws
of Virginia, required from the plaintiff in error, cannot be distinguished from those of the class just referred to, issued under
the internal revenue laws of the United States.
We are referred to the case of Sights v. YarnaZs, 12 Grat.
292, as defining a license under the laws of Virginia in a
different sense. We think, on .the contrary, that it is not only
cisistent with the view we have taken, but strongly in corroboration of it. In that case, the amount assessed as a condition
of the license is expressly designated to be a tax. It.was an
exaction made by the municipal government of the city of
Wheeling, under a law which expressly authorized it, in reference to houses of entertaifnment, to grant or refuse licenses, and
the case was one of that class. The language of the city char-

ROYALL v. VIRGINIA.
Opinion of the Court.

ter was: " They shall further have authority to regulate the
manner in which such houses or places shall be kept, and to
levy and collect taxes thereon, in addition to any tax which is
or shall be payable on the same to the State."
The law of Virginia, however, on this point was definitely
settled in accordance with the view we have here taken, in the
case of Ozld v. City of Richmond, 23 Grat. 464, followed by
Tumphreys v. City of _Norfolk, 25 Grat. 97,'and The Western
Union Telegraph Co. v. City of Richmond, 26 Grat. 1.
In the case of Hulemphreys v. The City of Norfolk, bi supra,
the Supreme Court of Appeals of Virginia, referring to the
previous case of Ould v. City of Richmond, said: "The objection was made in that case that a power to license involves in
its exercise the power to prohibit without such license; and that
such power vested in a municipal corporation is incompatible
with the rights of attorneys conferred by their general license
to practice in any and'every part of the State. This objection
did not prevail. Judge Anderson, upon this point, speaking
for the entire court, conceded that the city authorities could
not prohibit attorneys at law, already licensed, from practicing
their profession within the city limits. The exercise of the
vocation was, however, a civil right and privilege, to which are.
attached valuable immunities and pecuniary advantages, and is
a fair subject of taxation by the State and by municipal corporations. The power to impose a license tax upon the profession is included in the general power of taxation given by the
sixty-ninth section of the charter, and is not taken away by
subsequent limitations." "1T he principles settled by that case,"
continued the court, "are decisive of this. In neither case is
the attempt made to prohibit the exercise of the business or
vocation. The license required by the corporation is merely a
mode of assessing the tax; if it be reasonable and just, it
matters but little by what name it is called. The power to impose fines and penalties for a failure to pay the tax required
is not only an incident to the power of taxation, but is expressly conferred by statute."
That the party complying with the statutory conditions is
entitled as of right to the license, is conclusive that the pay-

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

ment is a tax laid for revenue and not an exaction for purposes
of regulation. fayor &c. v.. Second Avenue Railroad Co., 32
:N. Y. 261; State v. oboken, 33 i. J. L. (4 Yroom), 280; 2
Dillon Municipal Corporations, 166, oh. XIX., ยง 768. The occupation, which is the subject of the license, is lawful in itself,
and is only prohibited for the. purpose of the license; that
is to say, prohibited in order to compel the taking out a
license, and the license is required only as a convenient method
of assessing and collecting the tax. Cooley on Taxation, 407.
Such a license fee was held to be a tax by this court in the
cases of Brown v. Maryland, 12 Wheat. 419; Ward v. Maryland, 12 Wall. 418, and eltom v. Misouri, 91 U. S. 275. We
think it entirely clear, both from the nature of the case and
upon authority, that the payments demandable by the State for
the license applied for by the plaintiff in error are taxes within
the meaning of the act of March 30, 1871, in discharge of
which coupons were receivable by its terms, and that the plaintiff in error must be regarded, after making the tender alleged,
in. the same situation in law as if he had tendered gold or silver
coin or other-lawful money of the United States.
Admitting this, it is still contended, on behalf of the Commonwealth, that it was unlawful for the plaintiff in error to
practice his profession without a license, and that his remedy
was against the officers to compel them to issue it. It is
doubtless true, as a general rule, that where the officer, whose
duty it is to issue a license, refuses to do so, and that duty is
merely ministerial, and the applicant has complied with all the
conditions that entitle him to it,-the remedy by mandamu8
would be appropriate to compel the officer to issue it. That
rule would apply to cases where the refusal of ihe officer was
wilful and contrary to the statute under which he was commissioned to act. But here the case is different. The action of
the officer is based on the authority of an act of the General
Assembly of the State, which, although it may be null and
void, because unconstitutional, as against the applicant, gives
the color of official character to the conduct of the officer in
his refusal; and,- although at the election of the aggrieved
party the officer might be subjected to the compulsory process

ROYALL v. VIRGINIA.
Opinion of the Court.

of mandamu8 to compel the performance of an official duty,
nevertheless the applicant, who has done everything on his
part required by the law, cannot be regarded as violating the
law if, without the formality of a license wrongfully withheld
from him, he pursues the business of his calling, which is not
unlawful in itself, and which, under the circumstances, he has
a constitutional right to prosecute. As to the plaintiff in
erkor, the act of the General Assembly of the State of Virginia
forbidding payment of his license tax in its coupons, receivable
for that tax by a contract protected by the Constitution of the
United States, is unconstitutional, and its unconstitutionality
infects and nullifies the antecedent legislation of the State, of
which it becomes a part, when applied, as in. this case, to enforce an unconstitutional enactment against a party, not only
without fault, but seeking merely to exercise a right secured to
him by the Constitution. It is no answer to the objection of
unconstitutionaliiy, as was said in Poindexter v. Greenhow, ubi
supra, "that the statute, whose application in the particular
case is sought to be restrained, is not void on its face, but is
complained of only because its operation in the particular
instance works a violation of a constitutional right; for the
cases are numerous where the tax laws of a State, which in
their general and proper application are perfectly valid, have
been held to become void in particular cases, either as unconstitutional regulations of commerce, or as violations of contracts
prohibited by the Constitution, or because in some other way
they operate to deprive the party complaining of a right secured to him by the Constitution of the United States."
In the present case the plaintiff in error has been prevented
from obtaining a license to practice his profession in violation
of his rights under the Constitution of the United States. To
punish him for practicing it without a license thus withheld is
equally a denial of his rights under the Constitution of the
United States, and the law, under the authority of -which this
is attempted, muft on that account and in his case be regarded
as null and void.
As the sum demanded for the license is a tax, the provision
for the punishment of one who persues his profession without a

584 -

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

license is a part of the revenue system of the State, and is a
means merely of enforcing payment of the tax itself, or of a
penalty for not paying it. It is legally equivalent to a civil
action of debt upon the statute, and its substantial character is
not changed by calling the default a misdemeanor, and providing for its prosecution by information. The present case,
therefore, stands precisely, so far as the constitutional questions
arising in it are affected, as if it were a civil action, in which
the Commonwealth of Virginia was plaintiff, seeking to recover
the amount due on account of the tax and penalty. In that
aspect no one would doubt that it would be a perfect defence
that the defendant had previously paid the demand, or, what
we have held to be legally equivalent, had tendered tne amount
in the coupons of the State, receivable in payment by an irrepealable contract, but which the appointed authorities of the
State had wrongfully refused to receive. Such, as we conceive
it, is the present case. The State of Virginia has sued the defendant for the recovery of a tax which he offered to pay, when
it became due, in its own coupons, which by the law of its cont~act were receivable in satisfaction of the demand. Certainly
the State cannot be permitted to recover against its own contract
from the other contracting party, as to whom the only default
alleged is that he has performed the contract on his part.
Twjudgments of the Supreme Court of Appeal8 of Virginia,
and of the ftu8tings Court of the City of Richmond, Yirginia, are accordingly revereed, and the cause i8 remanded
to said Hastings Court, with instructions to take further
_roceedings therein in accordance'with law and in confarmity with this opinion.

