COE v. ERROL.
Statement of Facts.

stated the value of the goods at a price which in fact included
the cost of the cartons and packing.
It results, from these views, that
Tle judgment of tde Circuit Court must be reversed, and the
case be reranded to that court, with a direction to grant a
new trial.

COE v. ERROL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW HA.PSHnIt.
Submitted October 13, 1885.-Decided January 25, 1888.

Goods and chattels within a State are equally taxable whether owned by a
citizen of the State, or a citizen of another State, even though the latter be
taxed in his own State for the value of the same goods as part of his general
personal estate.
Goods, ,ne product of a State, intended for exportation to another State, are
liable to taxation as part of the general mass of property of the State of
their origin, until actually started in course of transportation to the State
of their destination, or delivered to a common carrier for that purpose ; t]ie
carrying of them to, and depositing them at, a depot for the purpose of
transportation is no part of that transportation.
When goods, the product of a State, have begun to be transported from that
State to another State, and not till then, they have become the subjects of
inter-state commerce, and, as such, are subject to national regulation, and
cease to be taxable by the State of their origin.
Goods on their way through a State from a place outside thereof to another
place outside thereof, are in course of inter-state or foreign transportation,
and are subjects of inter-state or foreign commerce, and not taxable by the
State through which they are passing, even though detained within that
State by low water or other temporary cause.
Logs cut at a place in New Hampshire were hauled down to the town of Errol,
on the Androscoggin River, in that State, to be transported from thence
upon the river to Lewiston, Maine; and waited at Errol for a convenient
opportunity for such transportation: Held, That they were still part of the
general mass of property of the State, liable to taxation, if taxed in the
usual way in which such property is taxed in the State.

In September, 1881, Edward S. Coe filed a petition in the
Supreme Court of New Hampshire for the county of Co6s,
against the Town of Errol, for an abatement of taxes, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

therein, amongst other things, alleged that on the 1st of April,
1880, he and others, residents of Maine and Massachusetts,
owned a large number of spruce logs that had been drE,wn
down the winter before from Wentworth's location, in :New
Hampshire, and placed in Clear Stream and on the banks
thereof, in the town of Errol, county of Co6s, lNew Hampshire, to be from thence floated down the Androscoggin iRiver
to the State of Maine to be manufactured and sold; and that
the selectmen of said Errol for that year appraised said logs
for taxation at the price of $6000, and assessed thereon State,
county, town, and school taxes, in the whole to the amount of
$120, and highway taxes to the amount of $60. A further
allegation made the same complaint with regard to a lot of
spruce logs belonging to Coe and another person, which had
been cut in the State of Maine, and were on their way of being
floated to Lewiston, Maine, to be manufactured, but were detained in the town of Errol by low water. Similar allegations
were made with regard to logs cut the f6llowing year, 1880,
and drawn from Wentworth's location, and part of them deposited on lands of John Akers, and part on land of George C.
D)emeritt, in said town of Errol, to be from thence taken to
the State of Maine; and, also, with regard to other logs cut in
Maine and floated down to Errol on their passage to Lewiston,
in the State of Maine, and both which classes of logs were taxed
by the selectmen of Errol in the year 1881. The petition also
contained the following allegations, to wit.:
"Said Coe further says that said logs of both years, so in the
Androscoggin iRiver, have each year been taxed as stock in
trade in said Lewiston to said Coe and ringree, and said
Coe claims and represents that none of said logs were subject
to taxation in said Errol for the reason that they were in transit to market from one State to another, and also because they
had all been in other ways taxed.
"That said Androscoggin River, from its source to the outlet of the Umbagog Lake in the State of New Hampshire,
through said State and through the State of Maine to said
Lewiston, is now, and for a long time has been, to wit, for
more, than twenty years last past, a public highway for the

COE v. ERROL.

519 '

Statement of Facts.

floatage of timber from said lakes and rivers in Maine, and
from the upper waters of said Androscoggin River and its tributaries in New Hampshire down said river to said Lewiston,
and has been thus used by the petitioner and.his associates in
the lumber business for more than twenty years last past."
Without further pleading, the parties made an agreed case,
the important part of which was as follows, to wit:
"It is agreed that the facts set forth in the petition are all
true except what is stated as to the taxation of the logs as
stock in trade in Lewiston, Maine; and if that is regarded by
the court as material, the case is to be discharged and stand for
trial on that point. It is agreed that upon this petition the
legality of the taxation is intended to be brought before the
court for adjudication, and all formal objections to the proceedings in the town meeting, &c., and all other matters of form,
are waived, and we submit the matter to the court for a legal
adjudication as to whether or not any or all of the taxes shall
be abated.
"And it is agreed that for many years the petitioner and his
associates in the lumber business have cut large quantities of
timber on their lands in Maine and floated them down the said
lakes and rivers in Maine and down the Androscoggin River
to the mills at said Lewiston; and timber thus cut has always
lain over one season, being about a year, in the Androscoggin,
River, in this State, either in Errol, Duntmer, or Milan; and
the timber referred to in this petition as having been cut in
Maine had lain over in Errol since the spring or summer before
the taxation, according to the above custom."
Upoi this case the Supreme Court of New Hampshire, in
September term, 1882, adjudged as follows, to wit: "iNow, at
this term, the said questions of law having been fully determined in said law term; and an order made that that portion
of said tax assessed upon the logs out as aforesaid in said State
of Maine be abated, and that the tax assessed upon all of said
logs cut in the State of New Hampshire be sustained, and said
order having been fully made known to the parties of this
case and become a part of the record thereof, it is therefore
ordered and decreed by the court that there be judgment in

OCTOBER TiERM, 1885.
Argument for Plaintiff in 4rror.

accordance with said order made at said law term, without
costs to either party."
The petitioner took a bill of exceptions, setting forth the
agreed case, and stating, amongst other things, the points
raised on +he hearing befo_ the Supreme Court of New
Hampshire, and the decision of that court thereon, as follows:
"On -said hearing the petitioner claimed that said taxes
named in the petition and the b atutes of this State, under the
provisions of-which said taxes were assessed, were illegal and
void, because said taxes were assessed in violation of, and said
statutes of this State are in violation of and repugnant to, the
general provisions of the Constitution of the United States;
,because said taxes were assessed in violation of, and said
statutes of this State are in violation of and repugnant to, that
part of section 2, aft. -, of the Constitution of the United
States, which provides that 'The citizens of each State shall be
entitled to all the privileges and immunities of citizens of the
several States;' because said taxes were assessed in violation
of, and said statutes of this State are in violation of and repugnant to, those parts of sec. 8 of art. 1 of the Constitution of
the United States which provide that 'The Congress shall have
power

.

.

.

to regulate commerce with foreign nations,

and among the several States,' and section 10 of said article
1, which provides that ' No State shall, without the consent of
Congress, lay any imposts or duties on imports or exports except what may be absolutely necessary for executing its inspection laws.'"
.fr. Henrj Heywood for plaintiff in error.
The legal .s'tus of this property, for the purposes of taxation,
is not in the town or place where the property, thus in transit,
happens to be on the first day of April or other date of taxation. Conley v. Chedic, 7 Nev. 336 ; ParkerXMill v. Tax Cornmnoner., 23 N. Y. 242, 245; .EDlwortt v. Brown, 53 Maine,
519; Campbell v. MNwkias, 33 Maine, 419. By the statute of
Maine, the logs taxed in Errol, were subject to taxation-at
Lewiston, where the owners occupied a mill and one of them
resided. For the purposes of taxation Lewiston was the legal

COE v. ERROL.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

of this personal property. Desmond v. Mazcia8,48 Maine,
478. Revised Statutes of Maine, 1871, 131 ยง 13 and 14, as
amended by ch. 182, laws of 1877. To sustain a taxation of
the same property in New Hampshire must lead, to double
taxation and the statute attempting to authorize such taxation
is in conflict with the Constitution of New Hampshire. Opinion of the Justices, 4 N. H. 565.
The resident owner of personal property in the State of New
Hampshire has the right to use the public rivers of -the State
for the purposes of navigation without subjecting his property
to the burden of double taxation. It is the privilege of the
citizens of each State to use the public rivers and highways
of the State for the purposes of transporting himself or
property; and the like privilege or right is secured by,the
Federal Constitution to citizens of the other States upon equal
terms. Article 4, section 2. To hold that the property of a
citizen of Maine in transit through New Hampshire upon one
qf our public watercourses and legally liable to taxation in
Maine, is also liable to taxation in New Hampshire, would not
be according to the citizen of Maine the privilege of the citizen
of New Hampshire, and the State statute' attempting to authorize such taxation of the property of the citizen of Maine is
,to that extent in violation of the provision of the Federal Constitution just cited. Oliver v. 'Washington XAills, 11 Allen,
268. In Crandallv. NYevada, 6 Wall. 35, a State law assessing
a tax on passengers through the State was held void. For the
same reasons given in that case the citizen of another State has
the right to transport his property from or through the State
of N'ew Hampshire upon its public highways by land or water
without subjecting it to taxation in New Hampshire. -Brown
v. -Maryland, 12 Wheat. 419; IVard v. 3faryland, 12 Wall.
418; Paul v. T'irginia,8 Wall. 168; Guy v. Baltimore, 100
U. S.434, 439.
We further claim that any taxation under the laws of any
of the States of this property, at the time of the taxation being the subject of inter-state commerce, is in violation of the
provisions of article 12, section 8, par. 3 of the United States
Constitution, and of section 10, par. 2. It has uniformly
8itu8

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Argament for Plaintiff in Error.

been held by the Supreme Court of the United States that a
tax assessed under a State law, upon property being in transit
through the State, or from a point in the State to another State,
is in violation. of these last provisions of the United States Constitution, or rather as we understand it, in violation of the above
cited provision giving Congress power "to regulate commerce
among the several states." Case of the State Freight
Tax, 15 Wall. 232; Almy v: Califowia, 24 How. 169; Mood#ufv. Parham,8 Wall. 123; Steamship Co. v. Port IVarden8
6 Wall. 31 ; Melton v. .JiVsouri, 91 U. S. 275 ; Railroad Co. v.
H-usen, 95 U. S. 465; Cook v. Pennsylvania, 97 U. S. 5C3,
Wherever the subjects, in regard to which a power to regulate
commerce is asserted, are in their nature national or admit of
one uniform system or plan of regulation, they are exclusively
within the regulating control of Congress. Transportation of
merchandise through a State or from one State to another
is of this nature. State Freight Tax, 15 Wall. 232; 1Tall v.
.DeCui, 95 U. S. 485. "The power to regulate commerce among
the several states was vested in Coi~gressi in order to secure
equality and freedom in commercial intercourse against discriminating state Legislation." Field, J., in Railroad Co. v.
_Richmond, 19 Wall: 584, 589; Welton, v. fi8souri, above cited;
Tleber v. Virginia, 103 U. S. 344. The non-exercise by
Congress of its power to regulate commerce among the States,
is equivalent to a declaration by that body that such commerce
shall be free from any restriction. Welton v. X1ie.ouri, 91 U. S.
275.
It will be said that these taxes, as Is said by Blodgett, T., in
the opinion in this case in the State court, is no attempt to
regulate commerce upon the Andros oggin River passing from
New Hampshire into Maine, and the like in relation to the
Connecticut and other large rivers in the State, but is a tax
upon property in fact located within the State and legally
taxable there. The answer to this position is the practical
effect of taxes assessed under State laws upon property thus
situated. Admit the power of the State to assess taxes upon
property in transit between the States, and inter-state commerce will be regulated by State taxation irrespective of any

COE v. ERROL.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

laws or regulations Congress can devise for that purpose, inder
the power given by the constitutional provision just cited.
This position has always been taken to sustain State taxation,
and has been answered by the Supreme Court substantially
in the same way: Mr. Justice Strong in the case of the State
Freight Tax, 15 Wall. 272, says: "It has repeatedly been held
that the constitutionality or unconstitutionality of a state tax
is to be determined, not by the form or agency through which
it is to be collected, but by the subject upon which the burden
is laid. The same has been decided in the following cases:
Bank of Commerce v. New York, 2 Black, 620; The Bank
Tax Case, 2 Wall. 200; Society for Savings v. Coite, 6 Wall.
594; Provident Institution v. -fasa6kusettis, 6 Wall. 611;
Brown v. 3faryland, 12 Wheat. 419; Henderson v. NeNw
York, 92 U. S.259. See also State v. Eagle, 34 N. J. L. 425;
anhd Currier v. Gordon. 21 Ohio St. 605.
The facts show that the property was in transit. At the
date of the taxation the logs were the subject of inter-state
commerce. A temporary delay on the way did not terminate
the transit. The property is all the time, while in motion or
at rest, in transit, and is during the whole time of its trausif
the subject of inter-state commerce. Just as much so as the
logs that come from Maine, or as these Wentworth Location
logs would have been had they started from that location just
prior to the first day of April and had passed through the town
of Errol on the spring freshet on the first day of April.
It ha. been recently decided by the Supreme Court of New
Hampshire that the petition for abatement given by the
statute is the only relief the property owner has in that State
against an illegal assessment, which is not fraudulently made.
.Edes v. Boardman, 58 N. H. 580. And in our case we were
denied the right to an abatement of the taxes upon the ground
that the assessment was not in any manner i4 violation of any
provision of the United States Constitution. So it cannot be
said that this is not a proceeding to which we are entitled to a
writ of error to this court.
.Yr. S. 1. Bond for defendant in error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

.MR.
JusTin- BRAnLEY delivered the 6pinion of the court.
After stating the facts in the language above reported he continued:
The case is now before us for consideration upon writ of
error to the Supreme Court of New Hampshire, and the same
points that were urged before that court are set up here as
grounds of error.
The question for us to consider, therefore, is, whether the
products of a State (in this case timber cut in its forests) are
liable to be taxed like other property within the State, though
intended for exportation to another State, and partially prepared for that purpose by being deposited at a place of shipment, such prodiicts being owned by persons residing in another
State.
We have no difficulty in disposing of the last condition of
the question, namely, the fact (if it be a fact) that the property
was owned by persons residing in another State; for, if not
exempt from taxation for other reasons, it cannot be exempt by
reason of being owned by non-residents of the State. We take
it to be a point settled beyond all contradiction or question,
that a State has jurisdiction of all persons and things within its
territory which do not belong to some other jurisdiction, such
as the representatives of foreign governments, with their houses
and effects, and property belonging to or in the use of the government of the United States. If the owner of personal property within a State resides in another State which taxes him
for that property as part of his general estate attached to his
person, this action of the latter State does xiot in the least affect
the right, of the State in which the property is situated to tax
it.also. Itis hardly necessary to cite authorities on a ppint so
elementary. The fact, therefore, that the owners of the logs
in question were taxed for their value in-Maine as a part of
then general, stock in trade, if such fact. were proved, could
have no influence in the decision of the case, and may be laid
out of view.
We recur, then, to a consideration of the question freed from
this limitation: (Are the products of a State, though intended
for exportation to another State, and partially prepared for

COE v. ERROL.
Opinion of the Court.

that purpose by being deposited at a place or port of shipment
within the State, liable to be taxed like other property within
the State?
Do the owner's state of mind in relation to the goods, that
is, his intent to export them, and his partial preparation to do
so, exempt them from taxation? This is the precise question
for solution.
This question does not present the predicament of goods in
course of transportation through a State, though detained for a
time within the State by low water or other causes of delay.
as was the case of the logs cut, in th State of Maine, the tax
on which was abated by the Suprenie Court of New Htampshire. Such goods are already in the course of commercial
transportation, and are clearly under the protection of the Constitution. And so, we think, would the goods in question be
when actually started in the course of transportation to another
State, or delivered to a carrier forlach transportation. There
must be a point of time when they cease to be governed exclusively by the domestic law and begin to be governed and protected by the national law of commercial regulation, and that
moment seems to us to be a legitimate one for this purpose, in
which they commence their final movement for transportation
from the State of their origin to that of their destination.
When the products of the farm or the forest are collected and
brought in from the surrounding country to a town or station
serving as an entrep6t for that particular region, whether on a
river or a line of railroad, such products are not yet exports,
nor are they in process of exportation, nor is exportation begun
until they are committed to the common carrier for transportation out of the State to the State of their destination, or have
started on their ultimate passage to that State. Until then it is
reasonable to regard them as not only within the State of their
origin, but as a part of the general mass of property of that
State, subject to its jurisdiction, and liable to taxation there. if
not taxed by reason of their being intended for exportation,
but taxed without any discrimination, in the usual way and
manner in which such property is taxed in the State.
Of course they cannot be taxed a8 exports; that is to say,

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

they cannot be taxed by reason or because of their exportation
or intended exportation; for that would amount to laying a'
duty on exports, and would be a plain infraction of t-e Constitution, which prohibits any State, without the consent of Congress, from laving any impost or duties on imports ot exports;
and, although it has been decided, TFoodruf v. .Parhzam, 8
Wall. 123, that this clause relates to imports from, and exports
to, foreign countries, yet when such imposts or duties are laid
on imports or exports from one State to another, it cannot be
doubted that such an imposition would be a regulation of comierce among the States, and, therefore, void as an invasion of
the exclusive power of Congress. See Walling v. .ichligan,'
ante, 446, decided at the present term, and cases cited in the
opinion in that case. But if such goods are not taxed as exports, nor by reason of their exportation, or intended exportation; but are taxed as part of the general mass of property in
the State, at the regular period of assessment for such property
and in the usual manner, they not being in course of transportation at the time, is there any valid reason why they should not
be taxed? Though intended for exportation, they may never
be exported; the owner has a perfect right to change his mind;
and until actually put in motion, for some place out of the
State, or committed to the custody of a carrier for transportation to such place, why may they not be regarded as still remaining a part of the general mass of property in the State?
If assessed in an exceptional time or manner, because of their
anticipated departure, they might well be considered as taxed
by reason of their exportation or intdnded'exportation; but if
assessed in the usual way, when not under motion or shipment, we do not see why the assessment may not be valid and
binding.
The point of time when State jurisdiction over"the commodities of commerce begins and ends is not an easy matter to designate or define, and yet.it is highly important, both to the shipper
ajd-td the State, that it should be clearly defined so as to avoid
all ambiguity or question. In regard to imports from foreign
countries, it was settled in the case of Brown v. .Afaryland,-12
Wheat. 419, that the State cannot impose any tax or duty on

COE v. ERROL.
Opinion of the Court

such goods so long as they remain the property Qf the importer
and continue in the original form or packages in which they
were imported; the right to sell without any restriction imposed
by the State being a necessary incident of the right to import
without such restriction. This rule was deemed to be' the
necessary result of the prohibitorv clause of the Constitution,
which declares that no State shall lay any imposts or duties on
imports or exports. The liw of Xtaryland, which was held to
be repugnant to this clause, required the payment of a license
tax by all importers before they Were permitted to sell their
goods. This law was also considered to be an infringement of
the clause which gives to Congress the power to regulate commerce. This court, as before stated, has since held that goods
transported froih one State to another are not imports or exports within the meaning of the prohibitory clauses before referred to;, and it has also held that such goods, having arrived
at their place of destination, maybe taxed in the State to whiob
they are carried, if taxed in the same manner as other goods
are taxed, and not by reason of their being brought into the
State from another State, nor subjected in any way to unfavorable discrimination. Woodruf v. Parham,8 Wall. 123;
Rrown v. liou8t, 114 U. S. 622.
But no definite rule has been ad6pted with regard to the
point of time at which the taxi4g power of the State ceases as
to goods exported to a foreign -country or to another State.
What we have already said, however, in relation to the products
of a State intended for exportation to another State will indicate the view which seems to us the sound one on that subject,
namely, that such goods do no. cease to be part of the general
mass of property in the State, subject, as such, to its jurisdiction,
and to taxation in the usual way, until they have been shipped,
'.or entered with a common carrier for transportation to another
State, or have been started upon such transportation in a continuous route or journey. We think that this must be the true
rule on the subject. It seems to us untenable to hold that a
crop or a herd is exempt from taxation merely because it is, by
its owner, intended for exportation. If such were the rule in
many States there would be nothing but the lands and real

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

estate to bear the taxes. Some of the Western States produce
very .ittleexcept wheat and corn, most of which is intended for
export; and so of cotton in the Southern States. Certainly, as
long as these prod acts are on the lands which produce them,
they alrd part of the general property of the State. And so we
think they continue to be until they have entered upon their
final journey for leaving the State and going into another State.
it.
is true, it was said in the case of 1he .DanielBall, 10 Wall,
557, 565: "Whenever a commodity has begun to move as an
aiticle of trade from one State to another, commerce in that
commodity between the States has commenced." But this
movement does not begin until the articles have been shipped
or started for transportation from the one State to the other.
The carrying of them in carts or other vehicles, or even floating
Them, to the dep6t where the journey is to commence is no
part of that journey. That is all preliminary work, performed
for the purpose of putting the property in a state of preparation
and readiness for transportation. 'Until actually launched on
its way to another State, or committed to a common carrier for
transportation to such State, its destination is not fixed and
certain. It may be sold or otherwise disposed of within the
State, and never put in course of transportation out of the State.
Carrying it from the farm, or the forest, to the dep6t, is only
an interior movement of the property, entirely within the State,
for the purpose, it is true, but only for the purpose, of putting
it into a course of exportation; it is no part of the exportation
itself. Until shipped or started on its final journey out of the
State its exportation is a matter altogether infieri, and not at
all a fixed bnd certain thing.
The application of these principles to the present case is obvious. The logs which were taxed, and the tax on which was
not abated by the Supreme Court of New Hampshire, had not,
when so taxed, been shipped or started on their final voyage or
journey to the State of Maine. They had only been drawn down
from Wentworth's location to Errol, the place from which they
were to be transported to Lewiston in the State of Maine.
There they were to remain until it should be convenient to
send them to their destination. They come precisely within

IRON SILVER MINING CO. v. CHEESMAN.

529

Syllabus.

the character of property which, according tW the principles
herein laid down, is taxable. But granting all this, it may still
be pertinently asked, How can property thus situated,, to wit,
deposited or stored at the place of entrep6t for future exportation, be taxed in the regular way as part of the property of the
State? The answer is plain. It can be taxed as all othei property is taxed, in the place where it is found, if taxed, or assessed
for taxation, in the usual manner in which such property is.
taxed; and not singled out to be assessed by itself in an unusual and exceptional manner because of its destination. It
thus taxed, in the usual way that other similar property is
taxed, and at the same rate, and subject to like conditions and
regulations, the tax is valid. In other words, the right to tax
the property being founded on the hypothesis that it is still a
part of the general mass of property in the State, it must be
treated in all respects as other property of the same kind is
treated.
These conditions we understand to have been complied with
in the present case. At all events there is no evidence to show.
that the taxes were not imposed in the regular and ordinary
way. As the presumption, so far as mode and manner are concerned, is always in favor of, and not against, official acts, the
want of evidence to the contrary must be regarded as evidence
in favor of the regularity of the assessment in this case.
The judgment of the Supreme -Court of New Hampshire is
Afflrmed.

IRON SILVER MINING COMPANY v. CHEESMAN
& Another.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF

THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

DISTRICT OF COLORADO.
Argued December 18, 21, 1885.-Decided January25, 1886.

The act 'of Congress, ยง 2322 Revised Statutes, gives to the owner of a mineral
vein or lode, not only all that is covered by the surface lines of his established claim as those linda are extended vertically, but it gives him the right
VOL. cxvI-34

