HOLGATE v. EATON.
Syllabus.

stipulation of the parties and the finding of the court thereon,
it appears that the railway and property which are taxed, are
situated within the boundaries of and upon the reservation. If
this be so, it does not follow that the result would be changed.
The moment that the road was lawfully constructed it came
under the operation of the laws of the Territory. The stipulation and finding must, however, be read with reference to the
legislation of Congress, and, therefore, as only establishing
that the road and property are within the exterior boundaries
of the reservation. They vill not be so construed as to
allow the company to escape taxation by the force of a stipulation as to an alleged fact which that legislation shows does not
exist.
Judgment affirmed.

]JOLGATE & Another v. EATON.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUTT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
Argued November 24, 25, 1885.-Declded December 14, 1885.
A married woman who, on being informed of a contract made by her husband
for the sale of an equitable interest in real estate held by her in her own
right, repudiates it, and who. for more than two years, refuses to perform
it whenever thereto requested, during which time the property depreciates
greatly in value, cannot, after the expiration of that time, enforce in equity
the specific performance of the contract by the other party.
When the husband of a married woman obtains a decree of foreclosure of a
mortgage held by him as her trustee, and at the sale purchases the property and takes a deed in his own name. she retains an equitable interest
therein, as against a purchaser from the husband with actual notice.
A loaned B a sum of money on a conveyance of a tract of land, the equitable
interest in which belonged, as A knew at the time, to B's wife. He further agreed with B to acquire an outstanding tax title of the property, and
subsequently complied with that agreement. Simultaneously by a separate instrument, they agreed that A, on payment of a further sum, might,
at his election, acquire the whole title of B and wife, to be conveyed by
warranty deed executed by both ; or, if A so elected, B should repay the
sum loaned and the amount paid for the tax-title, A holding the premises as
VOL. cxvi-3

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

security until such payments, and then reconveying. B's wife, though often
requested, refused to comply with the agreement. After the lapse of more
than two years, the property meanwhile havinggreatly depreciated, B's wife,
by next friend, fied a bill in equity against A to compel specific performance. A filed a cross-bill against B and wife in that suit to recover the sum
loaned and the sum paid for the tax-title. The wife dying, the suit was
revived and prosecuted by her administrator ; and her heirs also joined as
complainants. H-1d, (1) That the delay in coinmencing proceedings was
inexcusable, especially as a material change took place meanwhile in the
subject-matter of the contract. (2) That the estate of the wife was not
charged with the payment of the delit. (3) That without further facts not
before it this court could not say what effect the outstanding tax-title in
the hands of A had upon the wife's estate. (4) That the title or interest of
B in the land was charged with payment of the sum loaned and of the sum
paid for the tax-title (53)That the offers in the cross-bill entitled the heirs
to conveyances of B's interest and of the tax-title on payment of both sums
with interest, if they desired it. (6) That, they declining, A was entitled
to a personal decree against B, and the cross-bill could be dismissed as to
the heirs, without prejudice to A.

In equity. The facts which make the case are stated in the
opinion of the court.
.M'. fenry .2Yewbegin in person, and -M-r. William C. Hfolgate in person, for appellants.
,Mr. .7ames H. Hoyt [2Yr'. -. S. Sherman was with him on
the brief] for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE MILLER

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal from the Circuit Court for the Northern
District of Ohio.
The suit was originally brought by a bill in equity, in the
name of Elizabeth R. Eaton, by her next friend, Rufus J.
Eaton. During its progress Mrs. Eaton died, and her next
friend was appointed administrator of her estate, and it was
revived by him in that character. Afterwards her heirs were
made plaintiffs also.
The case as it was presented to the Circuit Court for final
decree, and as it comes before us, is to be gathered from the
pleadings, documentary evidence, written correspondence, and
depositions which are voluminous. We shall not recapitulate

IIOLGATE v. EATON.
Opinion of the Court.

the evidence, but state the material facts as we believe them to
be established.
.Tohn B. Eaton, the husband of the complainant, who~resided
with her in 'Maine, and who claimed to be the owner in his
own right of ninety-five acres of land neay the town of Defiance, in the State of Ohio, lying between the Wabash and Erie
Canal and the Pittsburgh and Fort Wayne Railr6ad, was in
July, 1874, at Defiance trying to sell it. Being in pressing
want of money, he made his note for $400, payable to the
Defiance National Bank in ninety days, dated July 30, 1874,
with Ilolgate and Newbegin, who are appellants here, as his
suretes. This note they afterwards paid.
On the same day Eaton made a conveyance, absolute on its
face, to Ilolgate of the land above mentioned, and, at the same
time, he and ilolgate executed the following agreement:
"D FzicE, OHIo, July 30th, 1874.
"This memorandum witnesseth, that John B. Eaton, of
Fryeburg, Maine, has this day sold to Wim. 0. Holgate, 'that
part of the east half of section twenty-seven (27), T. 4 N., R.
4 E., lying between the Fort. Wayne road and the W. & E.
Canal, and containing 95 acres, more or less, excepting 12
acres now held by Michael Gorman, all more fully described
and set forth in a deed this day executed by said John B. Eaton
to said Holgate. It is understood said Holgate is to pay for
said land the sum of six thousand dollars, and any valid tax
claim Adam Wilhelm may hold on said premises, one thousand
dollars of which is to be paid on or before October 1st next;
two thousand dollars in six months thereafter; fifteen hundred
dollars ($1500.00) in one year thereafter, and fifteen hundred
dollars in two years thereafter, with interest from and after
October first. It is further understood said Eaton is to execute
another deed of warranty, his wife being joined with him as
grantor in same, and to forward said deed on to H. Kewbegin
for said HIolgate, which is to be substituted for the deed this
day executed to said Ilolgate as aforesaid. And said Eaton
agrees to send on to said Newbegin the mortgage and notes
on which the judgment was taken by which his title was ac-

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

quired, in case he can find same, which are to be filed according to law. It is further understood and agreed that if, on or
before said October first, from any cause, said Holgate shall
prefer not to hold said premises on the terms herein set forth,
said Eaton agrees to repurchase same of him, and to release
any instalment that is unpaid of said Holgate, or portion of
same, and the obligation to pay said Wilhelm's tax claims;
also to refund with interest four hundred dollars ($400.00) this
day advanced on said $1000.00 instalment to come due October first next, and for any advancements to said Eaton by said
Holgate that is or may be made, said Holgate shall have a lien
on said premises, and may hold the title for same as security
till such advancements shall be adjusted. If, however, said
Holgate shall be satisfied with said purchase on account of
quality of land and all other particulars, he shall, at any time
after sixty days, on demand of said Eaton, execute and deliver
his notes for any unpaid part of said instalments, secured by
mortgage on the premises. It being understood that any
amount the railway companies may pay over for the portion
of said premises between the two railways shall be credited on
the said $6000.00 to be paid by said Holgate, or to go to said
Eaton, less advancements aforesaid, if said Holgate shall prefer to release and reconvey his interest in the premises aforesaid. Given under our hands and seals the day and year above
written.
[SEAL.]
J. B. EATow.
WM. 0. HOLGATE.

"Attest: HIExqY

[SEAL.]

N EWBECN."

Holgate immediately assig-ned to Kewbegin an undivided
half interest in this contract, of which Eaton had due notice.
He also, within the time limited, notified Eaton of his election
to hold the property, and required him to furnish the deed in
which Mrs. Eaton was to join, and the mortgage and notes on
whidh the foreclosure proceeding was had, and on which
Eaton's title depended.
This deed, however, was not tendered to appellants until
December 1, 1876, though the.notice and request for it was re-

HOLGATE v. EATON.
Opinion of the Court.

ceived before October 1, 1874. As appellants rely upon this
delay as a defence to the suit for the purchase-money, it is
necessary to consider its importance in the contract and the
excuses offered for the delay.
It appears sufficiently, we think, on the final hearing, that
Mr. Eaton had no other interest in the land at the time he executed this agreement and made his deed to Holgate than that
of trustee for his wife. "The mortgage and notes on which
judgment was taken, by which his title was acquired," were
never produced until the hearing before the master in 1882,
and the effect of them as evidence is thus stated by the master:
"It appears that, by the will of William A. Allen, brother
of Elizabeth R. Eaton, a share of his estate was given to her.
Bartley Campbell, of Cincinnati, her agent, seems to have had
possession of this share of the estate, being personal property,
and used it as his own. In accounting for the same, he assigned a mortgage which he held on lands in Defiance to John
IB. Eaton, her husband, in trust for Mrs. Eaton and her
children. This mortgage was foreclosed under proceedings at
Defiance, in which John B. Eaton appeared to be the only
party in interest, and at the sheriff's sale he became the
purchaser, and the sheriff's deed was made to him, of about
ninety-five acres of land in Defiance."
It should be added that the assignment of this mortgage
expressed on its face tlat it was for the benefit of Mrs. Eaton.
It is said by the master that the deed from Mrs. Eaton required by the contract was unnecessary, because by the sale
and purchase under the foreclosure proceedings Eaton had
acquired title, and his deed to Ilolgate was sufficicnt to convey
that title discharged of all equitable rights of Mrs. Eaton.
But we are of opinion that in this the master was in error.
It is quite clear to us that IIolgate had full notice of Mrs.
Eaton's interest in the land, for he. seems to have been aware
of the nature of the assignment by Campbell of the notes and
mortgage to Eaton, and therefore required thot they be
delivered up to him, if they could be found, and they were
found.
But, as a still further security against Mrs. Eaton's equitable

OCTOBER TERM,

1885.

Opinion of the Court.

right or interest in the lands, he took from Eaton the covenant
that if he elected to hold the land as a purchaser, Mrs. Eaton
should .join with him as grantor in an another deed, with
warranty of title. It is idle to say that Holgate did not have
a pretty clear idea of IMrs. Eaton's rights in the land, and intended to have full protection against them, and that this part
of the covenant had reference to a right of dower. She was
to join as grantor in the warranty of title.
That all the parties understood that Mrs. Eaton had the
paramount interest and equitable title to the land is seen in
the whole subsequent correspondence.
It is argued on the part of the appellants, on the other hand,
that the deed of Eaton and the accompanying contract constituted a mortgage for the security of Holgate in regard to the
$400 note which he agreed to pay, and for the sum he might
have to advance to buy in the tax title of Wilhelm, with the
6ption, on the part of Holgate, to convert it into a purchase
before October 1, that is, within sixty days. We do not deem
it important to decide whether we call the transaction a mortgage or a conditional purchase. The effect is the same either
way, as, if the purchase was perfected, the $400 was to be
part of the purchase-money. If it was not perfected, it, with
the amount paid for the tax-title, was to be a lien on the land
conveyed.
It seems that when :Nrs. Eaton was informed of the transaction between her husband and Holgate she refused to abide
by it, and would not make the deed which the contract called for.
In August, iolgate had informed Eaton of his election to
hold the land, and in a letter of September 30 he requests him
to forward the deed in which his wife was to join. It is quite
apparent that Mrs. Eaton had got possession or control of the
notes and mortgage, which 31r. Eaton was therefore unable to
surrendbr, and he had to confess his inability to get Mrs. Eaton
to join him in the deed. About this time the railroad company
by judicial proceedings, condemned and appropriated thirteen
acres of the land for their use, and the sum of $2600 awarded
as damages was matter of contention between Mrs. Eaton and
her husband.

HOLGATE v. EATON.
Opinion of the Court.

Under these circumstances, Holgate and Newbegin entered
into correspondence with Mrs. Eaton and her son, who acted
for her in the matter. They both denied the bindiig force of
the transaction with Mr. Eaton on Mrs. Eaton.
This correspondence ran through two years, in all of which
Holgate and Newbegin urged her to fulfil the contract by
making a conveyance of the land, and Mr. Eaton seems to have
dropped out of the matter in utter helplessness. Holgate insisted that the price of the land condemned by the railroad
company should be deducted from the price he had agreed to
pay, and still pressed for his deed. .Finally, in June, 1875, Holgate sent to Mrs. Eaton a mortgage executed by him and Newbegin on the land, less the thirteen acres taken by the railroad
company, with two notes for $1500 each, payable directly to
her, not negotiable, and requested her to send the deed of herself and Mr. Eaton for the land described in the mortgage,
but she declined to do so, though she kept the notes and mortgage.
On the 7th December, 1876, she did, however, tender such a
deed, which, Holgate and Newbegin refused to receive, and demanded payment of the $400 they had paid the bank on the
note for Mr. Eaton and the sum they had paid Wilhelm for his
tax-title, $424.00. Shortly after this the present suit was commenced.
We think that the correspondence shows that during all this
time until a few months before Mrs. Eaton sent her conveyance,
the appellants showed themselves ready, willing, and eager to
perform the contract; that Mr. Eaton, with whom they had contracted, proved himself unable to perform his covenant to procure his wife's conveyance, and that she, when appealed to and
offered the consideration which the contract provided for, repudiated the husband's action in the matter, and held the notes
and mortgage of the appellants for eighteen months, refusing to make the deed, without which she had no right to hold
them a day.
This deed was essential to the contract. Without it Holgate
would get nothing for the money he had paid and the notes he
had tendered. He had a right to prompt action on the part of

OCTOBER TERM,

1885.

,Opinion of the Court.

Mrs. Eaton if she intended to accept the contract. We are
bound to hold that while she had a right to refuse to be bound
by the contract, she could not play fast and loose with the
other parties to suit her pleasure. When, a year and a half
after the notes and mortgages were sent to her, she tendered
her deed it was too late to bind the appellants without their
consent.
An important consideration leading to the"same conclusion is,
that at the time the contract was made, and for a year or more
after, the value of*the property continued to increase, but, for
-reasons not necessary to discuss, it had decreased so largely
that at the time she tendered her deed it was worth far less
than when Holgate elected to keep the land as a purchaser and
demanded of Eaton the joint deed of himself and Mrs. Eaton.
-It
is reasonable to suppose that this depreciation in value entered into the motives which finally induced her change of
mind in the matter. The injustice of permitting hcr to delay
two years her consent under these circumstances is obvious.
The case before us is practically a bill by Mrs. Eaton for

specific performance. At law she could sustain no action on
the notes, and the circumstances under which she received and
held them and t'he mortgage would be a perfect defence to a
mere foreclosure of the mortgage. Her only ground of success
in the present suit, therefore, is in the principles of equity jurisprudence in enforcing a specific performance of the agreement
to buy the land and pay the purchase-money, and the allowance which a court of chancery sometimes makes for delay
when time is not of the essence of the contract.
In the case of Taylor v. .ongwortk, 14 Pet. 172, 174, Mr.
Justice Story uses language which has since become a legal
.maxim in this class of cases. "In the first place (he says),
there is.no 'doubt that time may be of the essence of a contract
for"the sale of property. It may be made so by the express
stipulation of the parties, or it may arise by implication from
the very nature of the property, or the avowed objects of the
seller or purchaser. And even when time is not, thus, either
expressly or impliedly,' of the essence of the contract, if the
party seeking a spezific performance has been guilty of gross

HOLGATE v. EATON.
Opinion of the Court.

laehe8, or has been inexcusably negligent in performing the
contract on his part; or if there has, in the intermediate period
been a material change of circumstances, affecting the rights,
interests, or obligation of the parties; in all such cases courts
of equity will refuse to decree any specific performance, upon
the plain ground that it would be inequitable and unjust."
It is quite apparent, therefore, that, if Mis. Eaton is seeking
to enforce the contract made with her husband, she has been
grossly negligent, until altered circumstances have lost her the
right to do so; and, if she relies on a contract with herself, no
such contract was ever completed.
Her bill, therefore, should have been dismissed.
Holgate and Newbegin, however, filed a cross-bill against
Mr. and Mrs. Eaton asserting a right to recover the $400 paid
for Eaton, and the $424 paid for the deed of Wilhelm for his
tax-title, and, Mrs. Eaton having died while these suits were
pending, her executor and her children were made parties in
both bills. This cross-bill presents more difficulty to our minds
than the main bill, for it seeks to subject the land to the payinent of these sums, with interest. Undoubtedly, if Mrs. Eaton
had accepted the contract made by her husband she would
have been bound by this part of i.as well as the other, and,
failing to perform her part of it, these sums would become
a lien on the land, according to the agreement. But she never
became bound by that contract. As we have just said, no contract was ever made between her and Holgate. They never
were bound to each other at any time. There was never a
common consent of minds on the subject.
We have also expressed the opinion that Eaton's deed to
Holgate did not convey her equitable interest, nor did his con-.
tract bind her in the agreement. It did not bind her to join
him in a conveyance, and it did not bind her landi as security
for the money advanced to her husband. The same consideration applies to the purchase of the Wilhelm tax-title. We cannot see how the equitable estate of Mrs. Eaton in her lifetime,
or of her heirs, now that she is dead, can be made liable for a
contract to which she was no party and which she never sanctioned. But appellants have such title or interest in the land

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

as Mr. Eaton had, and which passed by his conveyance. This
may be a life estate. It may be a right to hold as a lien for
costs and expenses, or it may be the naked legal title. Whatever it is it passed to Holgate by the deed.
As regards the Wilhelm tax-title, it may be a perfect title,
or it may be a lien for the taxes paid by the purchaser at the
tax sale. Or it may be that Holgate, holding the legal title,
as Eaton did, in trust, was bound to protect that title by the
purchase from Wilhelm, and if so, it may be a lien on the land,
though not a perfect title.
Of all this we are unadvised. But in the cross-bill Holgate
and Newbegin tender a conveyance of both these rights upon
payment of the two sums mentioned, with interest. If the
heirs of Mrs. Eaton will pay these sums and accept the conveyance, they should be permitted to do so. If they decline, the
plaintiffs in the cross-bill may be entitled to a decree against
Mr. Eaton inpersonam,for he is a defendant to that bill, has
appeared, but made no answer. As regards the cross-bill
against the heirs of Mrs. Eaton, if they will not pay these sums,
the appellants can dismiss their bill as to them without prejudice to the legal rights of Holgate and Newbegin under the
deeds from Eaton and Wilhelm, or they can proceed in it according to the principles of equity.

The decree of the Circuit Court in the originalbill is, therefore, reversed, and the decree in the r088-bill also. The
cae izs remanded to the Circuit Court, with instruction to
dismiss the original bill at the costs of the plaintff8 in that
bill, and to take such furtherproceedingsin the cro8s-bill as
are not inconsistent with this opinion, and as may be app'opriateto enforce the rights of plaintit therein.

