LIVERPOOL & LONDON INS. CO. v. GUNTHER.

113

Statement of Facts.

case. But the preponderance is very large on the part of Davis,
that the share of Coyle in the property was sold for about its
sale value, in view of its condition. There was a poorly built
and poorly arranged building on the premises, which was incapable of actual partition; the law did not permit a partition by
a sale i invitum; and Coyle's interest was a minority interest.
These considerations made it difficult of sale at all.

-Decreeaffirmed.

LIVERPOOL & LONDON INSURANCE COMPANY
v. GUNTHER.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Argued November 12, 1885.-Decided December 21,1885.

A violation of any of the prohibitions in a policy of insurance against fire by a
tenant, who occupies the insured liremises with the permission of the assured, is a violation by the assured himself.
If a policy of insurance forbids the keeping of gasoline or benzine on the
insured premises, but authorizes the use of gasoline gas there, the latter
authority gives no warrant for keeping gasoline or benzine there for any
purpose other than the manufacture of gas.
As the practice in New York allows a variance between proof and pleadings to
be cured by amending the latter when the opposite party is not misled, if,
in the trial of an action in that State on a policy of insurance, evidence is
offered without objection, establishing or tending to establish a defence
under the policy which has not been properly pleaded, and, on defendant's
request for instructions, founded on that evidence, no objection is made
that the defence was not within the issues, it is competent for the defendant to rely upon the defence after the opportunity for amending the pleadings has passed.

This was an action at law brought by Charles Godfrey
Gunther, a citizen of New York, in the Supreme Court of that
State, against the plaintiff in error, a corporation created by
the laws of Great Britain, and consequently an alien, and by
the latter removed into he Circuit Court of the United States
VOL. cxr-.8

114

:

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

for the Southern District of New York. There was a verdict
and judgment for the plaintiff below; brought here for review
by this writ of error.
The object of the action was to recover the amount claimed
to be due. on two -policies of fire insurance, issued by the defendant below, in favor of the plaintiff, one for $20,000 on the
two-story hotel frame building, with one-story4yame kitchen
and two-story frame pavilion building adjoining and communicating, situate in Gravesend Bay, of Bath, Kings County,
Long Island, $1000 on the two-story frame stable occupied in
part as a dwelling, and $200 on frame bathing-houses; and the
other for $8500 on the contents of the buildings insured. The
loss by fire was alleged to have occurred on August 15, 1879,
while both policies were in force.
The execution of the policies and the'fact of the destruction
by fire of the insured premises were admitted by the answer,
which, however, denied generally all the allegations of the
.complaint, not expressly admitted, or otherwise controverted
in the answer, and, in addition, set out the following special
defence:
'"Tenth. For a separate and distinct defence to the causes
of action alleged in the complaint, in addition to the matters
and things hereinbefore -set forth, the defendant avers that it
,was provided in and by the terms and conditions of said
policies of insurance, among other things,'as follows : ' If the
assured shall keep gunpowder, fireworks, nitro-glycerine, phosphorus, saltpetre, nitrate of soda, petroleum, naphtha, gasoline,
benzine, benzole, or benzine varnish, or keep or use "camphene,
spirit gas, or any burning fluid, or chemical oils, without
written permission in this policy, then and in every such case
this policy shall be void;' and further, ' That petroleum, yockearth, coal, kerosene, or carbon oils of any description whether
crude or refined; benzine, benzole, naphtha, camphene, spirit
gas, burning fluid, .turpentine, gasoline, phosgene, or any other
inflammable liquid, are not to be stored, used, kept, or allowed
on the above premises, temporarily or permanently, for sale or
otherwise, unless wit written permission indorsed on this
policy, excepting the use of refined coal, kerosene, or other

LIVERPOOL & LONDON INS. CO. v. GUNTHER.

115

Statement of Facts.
carbon oil for lights, if the same is drawn and the lamps
filled by daylight; otherwise this policy shall be null and
void.'
".And the defendant avers that the said conditions of insurance were broken and violated on the part of the plaintiff,
among other things, in that without written -permission of the
defendants, indorsed on said policies or otherwise, there were
stored, used, kept, and allowed on the insured premises mentioned and described in said policies, benzine or benzole, or
other inflammable burning fluids or liquids, prohibited by said
policies, and defendant avers that the fire .'entioned and referred to in the complaint originated and wds caused by such
storing, using, keeping, and allowance of such prohibited
articles on said insured premises, and defendant avers that it
is advised and believes that, by reason of the premises, the said
policies became and were null and void."
Each of the two policies, after the description of the premises
insured, contained the following clause: "Privilege to use
gasoline gas, gasometer, blower and generator being underground about 60 feet :from main building, in vault; no heat
employed in process."
Among the conditions in the body of the policies was also
the following:
"Petroleum, rock-earth, coal, kerosene, or carbon oilsof any
description, whether crude or refin ed ; benzine, benzole. naphtha,
camphene, spirit gas, burning fluid, turpentine, !asqiine, phosgene, or any other inflammable liquid, are not to be stored,
used, kept, or allowed on the above premises, temporarily or
permanently, for sale or otherwise, unless with written permission indorsed on this policy, excepting the use of refined coal,
kerosene, or other carbon oil for lights, if the same is drawn
and the lamps filled by daylight. Otherwise this policy shall
be null and void."
To the first policy there was attached ftie f6llowing: "Privileged to use kerosene oil for lights, lamps to be filled and
trimmed by daylight only." And, also, the following: "Privileged to keep not exceeding five barrels of kerosene oil on
said premises."

OCTOBER TERMK, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

To the second policy the first only 6f the foregoing privileges
was. attached.
On the trial, the plaintiff, having produced the policies sued
on, with the renewal receipts, showing that they were in force
at the time of the loss, was called as a witness, and- testified,
among other things, as follows:
"I was the owner of the insured property at the time of the
insurance, and have continued such until the present time. A
fire occurred on the 15th of August, 1879, about dusk, by
which the building and its contents were totally destroyed. I
was seated on the piazza of the building proper in sight of the
pavilion. I saw some parties with pails and a light. There
were some children playing. Mr. Lanier Walker was playing
with some boys around some small trees that I had planted in
the lot, and my attention was attracted by hallooing, and I
saw the men come out as though they were on fire. It did not
occur to me then that there was any fire in the oil-room,
although I saw it. I saw these men, and ran out and said,
'Roll in the grass.' One man struck for the water and the
other one had the fire thrashed out by the crowd. In another
instant I saw the oil-room burning. The wind was from the
southwest, blowing very hard right over the kitchen. The
pavilion immediately caught, and in one hour's time or less the
building was level with the ground."
The proofs of loss were read in evidence and the amount of
the loss proven. The plaintiff also testified that during the
summer of 1879 he had a room at the hotel, where he staid
on an average of four nights out of the week. The rest of the
time he was in New York. Mrs. Fanny Walker kept the hotel
as tenant, her husband, Mr. John Walker, being manager for
her.
The plaintiff having rested his case, the defendant introduced
evidence, not objected to, tending to prove the following facts:
A gas-making apparatus for the use of gasoline, including a
gasometer, generator, and blower, about sixty feet from the
house, and all under ground but the roof, had been in use for
lighting the main building for about eleven years up to and
including the summer of 1878, but its use was discontinued in

LIVERPOOL & LONDON INS. CO. v. GUNTHER.

117

Statement of Facts.

the fall of 1878, and it was not in use at all during the year
1879.
There was an oil-room in the basement of the hotel -under
the pavilion, about ten by twelve feet, with low ceiling. In
this room the lighting material was kept.
The fire originated in the oil-room "about dusk, August 15,
1879." Three persons were in the room at the time-Jacob
Constine, James Marrion, and one Schuchardt. The last named
was in Walker's employ as night watchman, and had charge
of the oil-room. The others were employed at premises about
a mile distant from the Locust Grove Hotel, called the Bath
Park Hotel, where gasoline was used for lighting the lastnamed hotel and an adjoining pavilion.
Constine and Marrion were sent by the book-keeper of the
Bath Park House to the Locust Grove Hotel to borrow five
gallons of gasoline, and each of them carried a wooden pail
in which to fetch it. On reaching Locust Grove they saw
Walker, who directed Schuchardt to give them the gasoline."
Schuchardt took them into the oil-room. He carried a glass
lantern with a wire frame around it---" a regular closed stable
lamp with wire and then little holes on top." The lamp was

lighted.
Schucbardt placed the lantern on the floor and drew fluid
from a barrel which was raised on stanchions, a little above the
floor. He drew from the end of the barrel, into which a piece
of gas-pipe had been placed as a faucet. On pouring into the
pails it was found that one of them leaked, and Schuchardt
got a five-gallon can into which to pour the oil, and while filling the can there was "a sort of bluish flame and explosion;
and the place was full of fire."
The fire spread with great rapidity. Schuchardt was burned
to death. Constine was badly burned, and was laid up thirteen
weeks. Marrion was burned a little, not much.
The hotel and all the buildings were destroyed by the fire.
"In one aour's time or less the building was level with the
ground."
There was no conflict of evidence as to the origin of the fire.
Walker purchased- in New York and had shipped to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

hotel, on August 13, a barrel of kerosene, and a half barrel of
benzine containing about 21 gallons, which were received and
put into the-oil-room under the pavilion on the morning of
August 14, the day before the fire. There was evidence tending to show that gasoline, benzine, or naphtha was used in
torches for the purpose of lighting the pavilion; and also
other evidence that it was intended for use in lighting grounds
for a pic-nic.
The plaintiff introduced evidence in rebuttal tending to prove
that no gasoline or benzine had been brought to the premises
or was kept there. The testimony having been closed on both
sides, the defendant's counsel then requested the court to direct
the jury to find a verdict for the defendant on the ground that
jit
appeared from the undisputed evidence that there was a violation of the condition of the policy providing that in the use
of refined kerosene oil the same must be drawn by daylight,
the evidence being undisputed that three persons went into the
oil-room with a lighted lamp, and that whatever was drawn
there was drawn not by daylight, but by the use of a lighted
lamp, the presence of which was the direct cause of the fire.
The court refused so to direct the jury, to which refusal the defendant's counsel then and there excepted.
,Thedefendant's counsel requested the court to instruct and
charge the jury as matters of law, as follows:
1. That the several conditions contained in the policy respecting the keeping, using, or allowance on the insured premises of the products of petroleum, specified therein, were lawful
provisions, and formed a part of the conditions of the insurance,
which, if violated, rendered the policy void.
2. That if the jury believed from the evidence that gasoline,
naphtha, or benzine were kept, used, or allowed on the insured
premises at the time of the fire, whether permanently or temporarily, the plaintiff could not recover, and the defendant was
entitled to a verdict.
3. That if the jury believed from the evidence that gasoline,
naphtha, or benzine was used in the summer of 1879, previous
to the fire, on the insured premises for lighting the pavilion by
means of the torches described in the evidence, then the plain-

LIVERPOOL & LONDON INS. CO. v. GUNTHER.

119

Statement of Facts.

tiff could not recover, and the defendant was entitled to a verdict.
1. That if the jury believed from the evidence that any fluid
product of petroleum used for lighting purposes was actually
drawn, after sundown, in the oil-room by the light of a lamp,
the flame of which ignited the fumes or vapors of such fluid
and caused the fire, then there was a violation of the conditions
of insurance, and the plaintiff could not recover, and the defendant was entitled to a verdict. Also, and as a part of the above
request, that the permission indorsed on the policy to keep five
barrels of kerosene oil did not vary or affect the conditions of
the policy in drawing refined oil by daylight; and if the fire
was caused by drawing refined kerosene oil after sundown, and
in the presence of a lighted lamp, the plaintiff could not recover,
and the defendant was entitled to a verdict.
5. That if the jury believed from the evidence that the risk
of fire was increased by the actual presence on the insured
premises of gasoline, naphtha, or benzine, then the plaintiff
could not.recover, and the defendant was entitled to a verdict.
6. That, irrespective of the questions raised by the preceding
fourth and fifth requests, if the jury believed from the evidence
that the fire was caused by the ignition of the fumes of gasoline, naphtha, or benzine in the oil-room, while such gasoline,
naphtha, or benzine was being drawn from a barrel or keg, or
poured from one vessel to another in the oil-room, then the
plaintiff could not recover, and the defendant was entitled to a
verdict.
7.That if any of the conditions of the policy were violated
by the presence or use of gasoline, naphtha, or benzine on the
insured premises, it was immaterial whether or not the plaintiff
knew of such violation. If the fact of the violation was established, the defendant was entitled to a verdict.
8. That the permission in the policy to use gasoline gas, the
generator, gasometer, and blower to be under ground 60 feet
from the main building, no heat to be used in the process, did
not authorize the plaintiff, or any one occupying the premises
under him, to use gasoline, naphtha, or benzine for lighting the
pavilion by the torches described by defendant's witnesses, or

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

to keep gasoline, naphtha, or benzine in the oil-room for use in
such torches.
9. That in weighing the evidence the jury must determine
on which side the preponderance of proof lay, and decide accordingly. That the testimony of the plaintiff in his own
favor must be scrutinized in view of his interest as plaintiff,
and that the evidence of witnesses not discredited or impeached, who swore positively to certain facts as within their
own knowledge and actual observation, was not to be overcome
by mere negative testimony of other witnesses that such facts
were not observed by them at the same time and place.
At the conclusion of the charge, a juror asked the court
whether the jury were to consider the matter of drawing oil in
the daylight.
The court thereupon charged and instructed the jury that
there was no question in the case in reference to the drawing
of the oil by daylight, no such question having been made by
the pleading; to which ruling and charge the defendant's
counsel then and there excepted.
The defendant's counsel then excepted specifically to that
part of the charge which instructed the jury that any question
arose in the case under the permission in the policy to use gasoline gas.
The defendant's counsel tien further excepted specifically to
the refusal of the court to charge that if benzine was allowed
on the premises at all the plainti'ff could not recover, so far as
the court did refuse.
The defendant's counsel then further excepted to that portion of the charge which confined the questions in the case to
the three questions specified in the charge as being the sole
questions which the jury were to consider.
The defendant's counsel then further excepted specifically to
that portion of the charge which instructed the jury that if the
benzine was brought to the insured premises by Walker for an
outside pujrpose if did not vitiate the policy.
The defendant's counsel then further excepted specifically to
that portion of the charge which instructed the jury that the
only effect of the question whether torches were used was in

LIVERPOOL & LONDON INS. CO. v. GUNTHER.

121

Statement of Facts.

reference to the question of the half barrel of benzine being
brought to the insured premises or not.
The defendant's counsel then further specifically excepted to
the refusal of the court to charge the several propositions contained in the foregoing second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth,
seventh, eighth, and ninth requests on the part of the defendant in the language as requested, and separately to each separate refusal to charge each separate request, so far as the court
did so refuse.
In the charge to the jury the Circuit Court stated, in substance, that under the pleadings and upbn the evidence there
were but three questions for their consideration. The first was,
whether in fact the half barrel of benzine testified to had been
brought to the premises and stored in the oil-room; if not, the
whole defence was taken away and the verdict must be for the
plaintiff.
Second. If otherwise, had it been brought over and stored
there by the authority of Walker in his management of the
premises for his wife inder her lease? If it had been brought
and stored there by him for an outside purpose, referring to
some testimony in refbrence to its intended use in lighting the
pic-nic grounds, then the verdict should be for the plaintiff.
Th,-rd. This question. was stated by the court, as follows:
"If it was brought there, and brought there by Walker in
the course-of his management, then would bringing that benzine there and putting it in the oil-room come within what
would be expected when the company gave the assured the
privilege of using the gasoline gas, the gasometer, generator;
and blower to be under ground 60 feet from the main building?
It would not come within that, unless you can say that by the
common and ordinary mode of the use of such apparatus, as it
would be understood by this contract to be used, it was proper
to store somewhere else benzine or gasoline for use in the apparatus. If you can see that it would come within that, then
that would be Written permission to have so much stored there,
although it was not to be used for that purpose. And if you
find that the benzine was there, and then that Walker got it
there, still, if you find that it came within that clause of the

OCTOBER TERMi 1885.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

policy, then you may return a verdict for the plaintiff; otherwise, you must return a verdict for the defendant.
"If the defendant has made out these three things, then you
must return a verdict for the defendant, and you must find this
upon the proof, and not upon any conjecture.
"And I feel bound to say to you that as to the use of a
gasometer, generator, and blower, it is a matter with which
'perhaps you might not be familiar (I am not sufficiently so to
know what the ordinary use 'would be). The only evidence
directly is what one of these manufacturers and dealers in such
things and familiar with them (I don't remember his name)
said; he said the gasometer was used to store the gasoline or
benzine, or whichever was used in it. That is all the direct
evidenc* I call to mind on that subject. Still, I submit it to
you to say, on the whole, what you think the fact is in this
view."
-Xr.TFilliam Allen Butler for plaintiff in error.
>Mr. George H. Forster for defendant in error.-I. There
was no error in the charge of the court on the point of the
keeping, use, or allowance of benzine on the insured premises.
The court said in effect that if it was brought and kept there
-by the procurement of Walker, acting under his wife's authority in managing the premises as ,they were to be managed
under the arrangement made with Gunther for their use, then
it was the act of Gunther; but if brought by a stranger, for a
strange and outside purpose, not done in the course of Walker's
management as his wife's manager, but for some purpose over
which Gunther had no control, then it was not the act of Gunther. This is the law of New York Gates v. .adson ins.
Co., 5 N. Y. (1 Seld.) 469; see also Stebbins v. Globe Is. Co.,
2 Aall, 632; Stetson v. .asackusets -Mutual, 4 Mass. 330;
Waters v. .7Xerohant8' Ins. Co., 11 Pet. 213; Columbia Ins. Co.

v. -Lawrence,10 Pet. 507; Delano v. Bedford I7s. Co., 10 Mass.
347, 355 ; Patavsco Ins. Co. v. Coulter,3 Pet. 222; Williams v.
Suffolk Zns. Co. 3 Sumner, 270, 276 ; Copeland v. _Marine I"s.
Co., 2 Met. (Mass.) 432; Shore v. Bentall, 7 B. & 0. 798, n. (b);

LIVERPOOL & LONDON INS. CO. v. GUNTHER.

123

Argument for Defendant in Error.

Bu8k v. Royal Exchange -7n8 Co., 2 B. & Ald. 73; Shlaw v.
Robberds, 6 Ad. & El. 75; Insurance Co. of North America v.
fcDowell, 50 Ill. 120; Aurora 2ns. Co. v. Eldey, 55 III. 213;
ifickay v. Burlington Ins. Co., 35 Iowa, 174. Sanford v. .echanics' MAutual Ins. Co., 12 Gush. 541, was a case where a
tenant, contrary to his lease not to make or suffer any alteration or make or suffer waste, erected furnaces for manufacturing purposes, increasing the risk without knowledge of the
assured. It was held that the policy was not void, although
it prohibited the insured from altering the building, or increasing the risk. See also JHynds v. Trust Ins. Co., 11 N. Y. 554
Stinach v. Lafayette Ins. Co., 54 N. Y. 90; Shipman v. Oswego Ins. Co., 79 N. Y. 627.
IT. The court did not err in refusing defendants' request to
direct a verdict for defendant, but properly refused go to direct
the jury. No violation of the policy by 'the drawing of petroleum after daylight was .pleaded in the answer. Defendant
made no application to amend; and, as the defence was not
pleaded nor made available by amendment, or a motion to
amend, the question was not in the case, whether such a defence existed or not. Hunt v. Hudson River ins. Co., 2 Duer,
481; Dinon v. Dunn, 15 N. Y. 498; Cloda v. Ratkbone, 19
N. Y. 3O ; Tright v. Delafteld, 25N. Y. 266.
III. The court, having properly charged the jury, was not
bound in addition to use the specific language which defendant's counsel had inserted in his requests. There is no valid
exception in the case, because the court did not comply with
such requests and follow their exact language in his instructions to the jury. The whole charg must be looked at to
ascertain if there was any error. It is not just to the court or
to the plaintiff to single out a statement from the charge and
except to that. Looking at the whole charge the jury were
correctly instructed, and there was nothing said to which they
can properly except. FrankliUn Fie Ins. Co. v. Vaughan, 92
U. S. 516, 519, 520; Beaver v. Taylar, 93 U. S. 46. When
instructions are asked in the aggregate, and there is anything
exceptionable in either of them, the court may properly reject,
the whole. It is the s~ttfled law in this court'that if the charge

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

given by the court below covers the entire case, and submits
it properly to the jury, such court may refuse to give further
instruction. Indianapolis & &t. Louis Railroad v. Torst, 93
U. S. 291, and cases there cited. See also Transportation
Line v. Hop~e, 95 U. S. 297,.301; and W'orthington v. .Jason,

101 U. S. 149.
IV. Defendant took a risk which involved the risk of the
use of gasoline and of keroseqe. Therquestions at issue were of
fact, and were carefully tried before a jury. There was no
error in the qonstruction of the clauses in the policy by the
court, as affected by the written language or permission. -The
importance and effect of such written words appear from the
following cases: Steinbach v. Lafayette Ins. Co., 54 N. Y. 90;
-New York v. -HamiltonIns. Co., 10 Bosworth, 538; farper
v. Albany -Mutual Ins. Co.; 17 N. Y. 194, 197; New York v.
Exchange Ins. Co., 9 Bosworth, 424. See also Townsend v.
NTforthwestern IRs. Co., 18 N. Y. 168; .foore v. Protection
Ins. Co., 29 Mffaine, 97; O'_iel v. Buq~'alo Ins. Co., 3 Comst.
1k2. As to what is storage, see New York Equitablev. Langdon, 6 Wend. 623; Fogel v. People's .Mtual Ins. Co., 9 Gray,
23; City Ins. Co. v. Corlies, 21 Wend. 367; lall v. Ins. Co.
of North America, 58 N. Y. 292; Buchanan v. Exchange .ns.
Co., 61 N. Y. 26; Cornish v. -FarmBuildings ins. do., 74 N.
Y. 295; Franklin Ins. Co. v. 7aughan, 92 U. S. 516; National Bank v. Insurance Co., 95 U. S. 673; Williams v.
People'8 Ins. CO., 57 N. Y. 274. The written part of the
policy shows that the company insured a frame hotel, with a
privilege to use gasoline. There was no fraud or misrepresentation in obtaining this privilege. This permission involved the
right to buy it and bring it there, and place it in a proper
place for use. It was entirely proper for the court to charge
the jury as it did, as to what weight they were to give to that
clause, and what right there was given under that privilege as
to the storage of gasoline. The policy is to be construed with
reference to the privilege the defendant so gave in writing, and
whatever that privilege gave, its exercise, or the exercise of any
part of the privilege, would not be a violation of the printed
condition of the policy. The court properly construed the

LIVERPOOL & LONDON INS. CO. v. GUNTHER.

125

Opinion of the Court.

policy, and the written permission, under the authorities. And
that construction is to be based on what the privilege authorized, and not on its exercise or non-exercise, to a greater or less
extent, during part of the time after the policy was issued.
Hfome Ra. Co. v. Baltimore Warehouse Co., 93 U. S. 527, 542;
Putnam v. CommonwealtA In8. Co., 18 Blatchford, 368. The
most important question in the case relates to the proper construction of the defendant's policy of insurance. It is as true
of policies of insurance as it is of other contracts, that, except
when the language is ambiguous, the intention of the parties
is to be gathered from the policies. Lord Mansfield said long
ago, that courts are always reluctant to go out of a policy for
evidence respecting its meaning.
Lorraine v. [omlinaon,
Doug. 585. And so, Judge Strong says, are the authorities
generally: citing A8tor v. Union Ins. Co., 7 Cow. 202;
furray v. Hatch, 6 Mass. 465; Levy v.
errill,4 Greenl. 180;
Baltimore Fire Ins. Co. v. Loney, 20 Maryland, 20, 36.
V. There was no error as to the evidence received. The admission of even irrelevant evidence, which is not shown to
have tended in the least to mislead the jury, is not an error.
A verdict is Aot to be set aside because evidence was admitted
at the trial which could have no bearing upon the verdict, unless it was misleading in its tendency. Home Im. Co. v. Baltimore WVarehowe Co., cited above.
M . JUsTIcE M&TTmnws delivered the opinion of the court.
After stating the facts in the language reported above, he
continued:
The first question to be examined is whether the Circuit
Court erred in withdrawing from the jury the right to consider the facts proven as to the drawing of the oil in the oilroom after dark in the vicinity of a lighted lamp, which was
the admitted cause of the fire, as constituting a defence to the
action under the pleadings.
The tenth paragraph in the answer, setting up a separate
and distinct defence, recited two conditions in the policy; the
first, that the assure, should not keep any burning fluid without written permission in the policy; the second, that kerosene,

OCTOBER TERM,

IP85.

Opinion of the Court

carbon oils of any description, whether crude or refined, or any
other inflammable liquid, "are not to be stored, used, kept, or
allowed on the above premises, temporarily or permanently,
for sale or otherwise, unless with written permission indorsed
on this policy, excepting the use of refined coal, kerosene, or
other carbon oil for lights, if the same is drawn and the lamps
filled by daylight; otherwise this policy shall be null and
void." It then alleged a breach of these conditions, in substance, as follows: that without the written permission of the
defendants, indorsed on said policies or otherwise, there were
stored, used, kept, and allowed on the insured premises, benzine or benzole, or other inflammable burning fluids or
'liquids, prohibited by said policies, and that the fire referred
to in the complaint originated therefrom and was caused
thereby.
It is true that the answer does not specifically set out as part
of the defence that kerosene was kept on the premises to be
used for lights, but that, in breach of the condition which permitted such use, it was drawn after dark and with a lighted
lamp near; but the right to keep it and use it in the manner
specified in the condition is an exception fron the general
prohibition, which forbids the mere keeping of it without
written permission; so that, strictly speaking, an averment
that the article was kept and used on the premises, in violation
9 f the condition, includes the use of it, otherwise than for
lights, and the drawing of it otherwise than by daylight. Under the allegations of the answer, although not so definite and
certain as might have been required, upon motion made in due
time, it seems to us it was competent for the defendant to
prove and rely upon any keeping and use of burning fluid prohibited by the conditions set out.
Whatever obscurity there was in pleading the defence, considered apart from the facts subsequently disclosed in evidence,
nevertheless, all the testimony necessary to its establishment
was offered and admitted without objection. It was offered
and admitted as tending to prove that there had been a breach
of the conditions of the policy; and the whole matter of the
defence was covered by the testimony, on examination and

LIVERPOOL & LONDON INS. CO. v. GUNTHER.

127

Opinion of the Court.

cross-examination of the witnesses, both on the part of the defendant in chief and on that of the plaintiff in rebuttal. Oa
the conclusion of the testimony on both sides the matter now
insisted on was specially called to the attention of the c6urt by
a request on the part of the defendant's counsel to direct a verdict for the defendant on that ground alone, when, if it was a
matter of surprise to the opposite party, opportunity for meeting it might still have been given; or, if the pleadings were
considered not to be sufficiently explicit, an amendment might
have been required and made. The request was refused, and
it does not appear from the record to have been on the ground
that the defence was not within the issues; but the refusal was
absolute and unqualified. We refer to it not for the purpose
of intimating that the court was bound to grant the request,
but because we think the matter ought to have then been
either submitted to the jury or put in shape for such submission, if the rights of the adverse party required any change in
the pleadings, or opportunity for the production of other
evidence. By the course actually taken the defendant was deprived of the benefit of a defence, legitimately arising upon
the evidence actually in the case, admitted without objection;
and this, we think, was contrary to the practice established
under the laws of New York, as appears from the cases cited
of N. Y Cent. Ins. Co. v. Nat. Protection Ins. Co., 14 N. Y.
85; Williwms v. fech. & Traders' Fire Ans. Co., 54 N. Y.
577; and Williams v. .People'sFire lhs. Co., 51 N. Y. 274.
The New York Code of Civil Procedure, which furnishes the
rule of practice in such cases, is explicit on the point. In ยง 539
it is provided that "a variance between an allegation in a pleading and the proof is not material, unless it-has actually misled
the adverse party to his prejudice in maintaining his action or
def-nce upon the merits. If a party insists that he has been
misled, the fact and the particulars in which he has been misled must be proved to the satisfaction of the court. Thereupon the court may, in its discretion, order the pleading to be
amended upon such terms as it deems just." And ยง 540 declares that, "when the variance is not material, as prescribed
in the last section, the court may direct the fact to be found

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

according to the evidence, or may order an immediate amendment without costs."
There are other errors, however, in the charge to the jury,
equally fatal to the judgment, which, as the case must be remanded for a new trial, it becomes important to point out.
The Circuit Court charged the jury, in substance, that it
was not a breach of the conditions of the policy if they should
find a half barrel of benzine was stored by direction of Walker
in the oil-room, unless they should also find that he acted by
the express or implied authority of the assured; that is, unless
in doing so he was acting in the management of the property as
the agent of his wife, and within the limits of the authority
conferred upon him for the purpose of managing the property
according to the terms and purposes of her tenancy; and accord'inglythe jury was told that if he had brought the prohibited
article on the premises, not for the legitimate use of the hotel,
but for an outside purpose, it constituted no defence. The outside purpose referred to was suggested by some testimony, that
the benzine was brought for the purpose of being used in lighting an adjacent grove for a pic-nic. Whether this use was for
the entertainment of the guests of the hotel, or to attract custom, does not appear from the evidence; but, in any view, we
think the construction of the policy, on which the charge to
the jury was based, was erroneous.
One of the conditions of the policy is, that if the assured
shall keep or use any of the prohibited articles without written
permission, it shall be void; another is, that the articles named
"are 'not to be btored, used, kept, or allowed on the above
premises, temporarily or permanently, for sale or otherwise, unless with written permission indorsed on the policy," &c.
A violation of these prohibitions by any one permitted by
the assured to occupy the premises, is a violation- by the assured himself. The company stipulates that it will not assume
the risk arising from the presence of the articles prohibited,
and if they are brought upon the premises in violation of the
policy by one in whose possession and control the latter have
been placed by the insured, he assumes the risk which the company has refused to accept. In our opinion the' defendant,

LIVERPOOL & LONDON INS. CO. v. GUNTHER.

129

Opinion of the Court.
in error was chargeable with the acts of Walker, if he brought
upon the insured premises ,and stored in the oil-room any of
the prohibited articles, although they were not intended to be
used on the premises, but for lighting a neighboring grove for
a pic-nic. Walker was in no sense a stranger or a trespasser.
With his wife he was in the lawful occupation of the premises,
and, with the implied assent of the insured at least, was entrusted with the control and management of them. And
under the terms of the conditions in this policy, it must be held
that the insured shall suffer the consequences of Walker's acts
in doing that for which, if done, the company had stipulated
that they would not be liable. The insured engaged that the
prohibited thing should not be done, and when he committed
the control of the insured premises to another the latter became
his representative, for whom he must answer as for himself.
This construction of such a condition is well supported by authority. ifelly v. Worceter futual FireIneuranceCo., 97 Mfass.
284, 287. In this case it was held that "a policy of insurance
obtained upon a building by the owner, and containing a
proviso that it shall be void if the buildings shall be occupied
or used for unlawful purposes, is avoided by a tenant's use of
the building for an unlawful purpose, even if without the
owner's knowledge. ' In distinguishing the case from those
cited by counsel adversely, the court said: "In some of the
cases cited for the plaintiff the prohibited use was not so constant, or habitual, or of such a nature as to fall within the terms
of the provision, and in the others the knowledge or assent
of the assured was expressly required in order to avoid the
policy."
In New York it has been the settled law since the case of
Duncan v. Sun Fire Insurance Co., 6 Wend. 488. In .fead v.
.Northwe8tern n8. Co., 7 N. Y. (3 Seld.), 530, 533, it was said,
in such a case: "It is equally unimportant that the respondent
was ignorant that such business was carried on. The question
whether a warranty has been broken can never depend upon
the knowledge or ignorance or intent of the party making it,
touching the acts or the fact constituting the breach." 7iatwon
v. Farm Building8 n8. Co., 73 N. Y- 310.
VOL. CXWI-9

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

'In Fire Association v. Williamson, 26 Penn. St. 196, 198,

the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania said: "1Neither it is mu-,
terial that the landlord did not know that his tenant kept gunpowder. His contract with the insurance company was that
it should not be kept without permission, and it 'was his business
to see that his tenants did not violate*the contract in this
respect." Diehl v. .'he Adams Co. 3futual Ins. Co., 58 Penn.
St. 443; ].r~well v. Baltimorequitale Society, 16 Maryland,
377r.

The Circuit Court also erred in the charge to the jury, that,
under the circumstances disclosed by the evidence, it was no
breach of the conditions of the policy to have in the oil-room a
quantity of gasoline, although not intended for use in the gas
apparatus, the use of which bad in fact been discontinued, if
the oil-room was a place were such fluid might have been
properly stored, when intended for use in the apparatus.
The only direct evidence in the case, as to the usual and
suitable place for the keeping of. gasoline when used in such
an apparatus, was, that it should be deposited-at once in the
apparatus itself, one part of which is a generator where atmospheric air is carbonized by being forced through the gasoline.
But waiving any question on that point, it is clear that the
privilege indorsed on the policy, in the following terms: "To
use gasoline gas, gasometer, blower, and generator being underground about, sixty feet from main building in vault. No
heat employed in process;" did not sanction the keeping, using
or storing of gasoline, or its equivalent, burning fluid or oil,
except for actual use in that gas apparatus. There is no express permission to keep gasoline given in the words of the
privilege. Such permission is implied only when and because
the use of gasoline is necessary to the enjoyment of the privilege. Otherwise and for all other purposes and -uses, it is expressly prohibited. The implication cannot be extended beyond the necessity for a fair and reasonable exercise of the
privilege granted.
But the evidence on the trial was uncontradicted, that, at the
time of the fire and for nearly a year previously, the use of the
gas apparatus had been discontinued. The plaintiff below him-

FISK v. JEFFERSON POLICE JURY.
Syllabus.

self testified that it was not used during the season of 1879,
and that its use had been purposely discontinued. And the
privilege indorsed on one of the policies "to use kerosene oil
for lights, lamps to be filled and trimmed by daylight only,"
and "to keep not exceeding five barrels of kerosene oil on said
premises," was dated September 17, 1878, at the time when,
according to the testimony of the plaintiff, the use of the apparatus for lighting the premises by means of gas from gasoline ceased at the end of the season of 1878.
It is, of course, no to be denied that this did not supersede
the privilege to use the gasoline apparatus, and that this privilege had not been otherwise exhausted or withdrawn. The
insured had the right at any time to resume its exercise, and,
in doing so, would have been justified in obtaining, keeping,
storing, and using, in the accustomed manner, the necessary
quantity of gasoline for supplying it. This is implied in the
grant of the privilege. But if the privilege itself is not actually exercised, no such implication arises, and the prohibition
against gasoline, according to the terms of the condition, must
have full effect. It was error, therefore, in the court to instruct
the jury that the naked privilege to use a gas apparatus, not
actually exercised, nor intended to be exercised, but in fact
abandoned, justified the insured in keeping and storing gasoline, in any quantity, in any place, or for any time.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is reversed, and the case
is remanded, with directions to grant a new trial.

FISK v. JEFFERSON POLICE JURY.
LOUISIANA ex rel. FISh v. Same.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF LOUISIANA.
Submitted November 18, 1885.-Decided December 21, 1885.

Where a law attaches a fixed compensation to a public office during the whole
term of service of a person legally filling the office and performing the duties thereof, a perfect implied obligation arises to pay for the services at the

