OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

part of a lot in Pensacola. A judgment was rendered in each
,case for the recovery of the premises sued for in that case.
Neither the pleadings nor the evidence found in the records
show the value of the property, but on suing out the writs of
error the plaintiffs in error in each case filed two affidavits to
the effect that the value was more than $.5000.' Since the cases
were docketed here, however, the defendant in error has filed
counter affidavits which prove beyond all doubt that this is a
mistake, and that the value in every one of the cases is very
much less than our jurisdictional limit.
The writs of error are consequently all dismissed for want
ofjurisdiction.
Goldstucker & Another v. Wilkins. Wells & Others v. Wilkins. Wells & Others v. Wilkins. Wrells & Others v. Wilkins.
Wells & Another v. Wilkins. All in error to the Circuit Court
of the United States for the Northern District of Florida. These
cases were all submitted at the same time, and by the same counsel, with Wells v. Wilkins reported above, and are, for the reasons
given in the above opinion, all
.Dismissedfor want of jurisdiction.

HUNT v. UNITED STATES.
A-PPEAL. FROM THE COuRT OF CLAIMS.
Submitted January 4, 1886.-Decided January 18, 1886.

Under the provisions of the act of July16, 1862, 12 Stat. 586, ch. 183, ยง16, an
offcer of the navy of a class subject by law or regulaiton to examination
higher grade, was not entitled to be examined until
before promotion to a,
his tarn for promotion had arrived, or wds near at hand.
If a naval officer wai delayed in promotion for want of examination, and the
examination'was delayed by reason of absence on duty when entitled to promotion, the act of July 16, 1862, gave him the righ.t to have the increased
pay of the new grade begin when the examination should have taken place.

George, P. Hunt, the appellant, a chief engineer in the navy,
brought this suit in the Court of,Claims to recover a balance of
pay due hin, as he alleged, from the United States.

HUNT v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

The facts were as follows: On October 25, 1868, the appellant was a first assistant engineer in the United States Navy,
and had served in that grade two years at sea on board a naval
steamer. At the date mentioned there was no vacancy in the
grade of chief engineer to which the appellant could be promoted, nor did any such vacancy occur until July 4, 1880. On
October 11, 1880, he was ordered to report for examination for
promotion to the grade of chief engineer, and, upon examination, was found qualified, and on December 29, 1880, was promoted to the grade of chief engineer and received the pay of
that grade from July 4, 1880. From October 25, 1868, to July
4, 1880, the appellant received the pay and emoluments of a
first assistant engineer only. He claimed that for the period
between the two dates just named he was entitled to the pay
of chief engineer, and brought his suit to recover for that
period the difference between the pay and emoluments of a
first assistant engineer and of a chief engineer. The Court of
Claims dismissed his petition, and he appealed.
.2lr. Marle8 F. Benjamin for appellant.
.r. Solicitor-General for appellee.
MR. JusTicE Woons delivered the opinion of the court.

After

stating the facts in the language above reported, he continued.
It appears from the findings of the Court of Claims that from
October 25, 1868, to July 4, 1880, there was no vacancy in the
grade of chief engineer to which the appellant could have been
promoted even had he been examined and found qualified. His
position in this suit is, therefore, that he is entitled to the pay
of an office for a period during which he did not hold, and was
not entitled to hold it, and did not perform its duties. He
insists that as soon as he had performed two years' service at
sea he had a right to be examined for promotion, and, when
examined and promoted nearly eleven years afterwards, was
entitled to the pay of the grade to which he was promoted
from the time when his two years' service at sea was completed. The law to support such a claim should be clear.

OCTOBER TERM,' 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

If the appellant is entitled to any of the increased pay claimed,
the time for which it should be computed is cut short by the act
of June 22, 1874, the first section of which is as follows: "That
on Iand after the passage of this act any officer of the Navy who
may be promoted in course to fill a vacancy in the next higher
grade, shall be entitled to the pay of the grade to which promoted from the date he takes rank therein, if it be subsequent
to the vacancy he is appointed to fill." This section clearly
cuts off by implication any increase of pay until promotion.
So that, if it be conceded that the section could not have any
retroactive effect, it, at least, limits the right of the appellant
to any increase of pay to the period between October 25, 1868,
when his two years' service at sea was completed, and the
passage of the act.
The claim of the appellant to the increased pay is based on
section sixteen of the act of July 16, 1862, entitled "An Act to
establish and equalize the grade of line officers of the United
States Navy," ch. 183, 12 Stat. 586, which provides: "That
whenever any officer of the Navy of a class subject by law or
regulation to examination before promotion to a higher grade,
shall have been absent on duty at the time when he should have
been examined, and shall have been found qualified at a subsequent examination, the increased rate of pay to which he may
be entitled shall be allowed to him from the date when he would
have received it had he been found qualified at the time his examination should have taken place."
The Navy Regulations in force in 1867 provided as follows:
"Section 26-4. Candidates for pronotion to the grade of chief
engineer must have served at least two years at, sea as first
assistant, engineers on board a naval steamer."
. It is clear, upon the face of this statute and regulation, that
the appellant has not.maintained his suit. ie does not aver in
his petition, and it is not found by the Court of Claims, "that
he was absent on duty at the time when he should have been
examined." Neither does it appear that at any time after the
expiration of his two years' service at sea, on October 25, 1868,
down to the time of his examination on October 11, 1880, he
pas' absent on duty. Even, therefore, upon his own construc-

HUNT v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

tion of the statute, he does not bring himself within its terms
as one entitled to the pay which he sues to recover.
But we are of opinion that it is an unwarranted construction
of the statute and regulation to hold that, as soon as a first assistant engineer has served two years at sea on hoard a naval
steamer, he is entitled, as a matter of right; to an immediate examination, whether there is a vacancy in the next higher grade
to which he could be promoted or not; and if his examination
is delayed by his absence on duty he can, when examined and
promoted, demand the pay of a chief engineer from the time
when he had completed his two years' service at sea. We think
the law was properly construed by Mr. Welles, Secretary, of
the Navy, in his letter of May 12, 1864, to the Fourth Auditor,
in which he said: "There may be some obscurity in the wording of the sixteenth section of the act of July 16, 1862, but the
evident and sole purpose of the law is to prevent an officer
from being deprived by absence on duty of the increased pay
which promotion would have given him." In other words, the
meaning of the law is, that if an officer is delayed in his promotion because he has not been examined, and his examination has been delayed by his absence on duty, he shall, when
.promoted, have the increased pay of the new grade, to begin.
from the time when his examination should have taken place.
Under the law and the regulations a first assistant engineer
became eligible to examination for promotion when he had
served two years at sea upon a naval steamer. But he was
merely Aligible. He was not entitled to be examined until his
turn for promotion had arrived, or was near at hand. In no
event, therefore, could he demand that the increased pay of his
new grade should begin until he had a right to be examined for
promotion.
It appears that under a misconstruction of the law a practice
grew up in the Navy Department by which promoted officers
were allowed the pay of their new grade from the time when
they were eligible for examination. But this was corrected by
the Secretary of the Navy in 1877, who recommended that the
increased p'iy of a promoted officer should be allowed only
from the time when a vacancy occurred to which he could have

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

been promoted if an opportunity for examination had been given
him. In our opinion this recommendation was based on a cbrrect construction of the statute.
We see no reason why a practice unwarranted either by law
or the regulations of the navy, and which had been discontinued.
for eight years, should be revived and given effect.in this case.
Judgment afjilmed.

UITED STATES v. WALLACE.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
Submitted January 4, 1886.-Decided January 18, 1886.

Under the provisions of Rev. Stat. ยง 847 and 828, a commissioner 6f a Cir.
cuit Court who, by direction of the court, keeps a docket with entries of
each warrant issued and subsequent proceedings thereon made on the day
of occurrence, is entitled to a fee like that allowed to the-cierk of the court
for dockets, indexes, &c., although his docket entries may differ from those
made by the clerk.

The judgment appealed from in this case was rendered in
favor of the appellee, who was plaintiff below, for the sum of
$1032, upon the following finding of facts .reported by the
.Court of Claims:
I. The claimant, John H. Wallace, was a commissioner of the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern Di~trict of
Alabama from January 16, 1882, to Noverhber 22, 1883.
H. October 4,1881, theGC:rcuit Court of the.United States for
said district, in complianqe.with a request by the AttorneyGeneral, made an order requiring, among other things, that
each of the commissioners of said court should keep a docket,
in which he should enter on the day the transaction should occur the issuance of each warrant, the name of the person upon
whose complaint and request the same was issued, the .nature
of the offence, and the name of the office# to whom the warrant was delivered for service, together with the proceedings
had under said warrant; that there should also be entered

