TYRE ,& SPRING WORKS

O. v. SPALDING.

541

Opinion of the Court.

TYRE & SPRING WORKS COMPANY v. SPALDING.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
IORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
Submitted January 8, 188.-Declded February 1,1886.
Under these previsions as to duties on imports, in Schedule E of section 2.504
of the Revijfd Statutes (2d ed., p. 465) : "All manufactures of steel, or of
which steel shall be a component part, not otherwise provided for : fortyfive per centum ad valorem. But all articles of steel partially manufactured, not otherwise provided for, shall pay the same rate of duty as if
wholly manufactured."
"Locomotive tire, or parts thereof : three cents
per pound." "Steel, in any form, not otherwise provided for: thirty per
centum ad valorem," (p. 466), articles known as "steel tire blooms," and

which have passed through an important stage in the process of manufacture into steel tires, but are not shown to have been adapted or intend?d to
be made into tires for the driving-wheels of locomotives, are dutiable at
forty-five per cent. ad valorem.
Where a case is tried by a Circuit Court, without a jury, and that court makes
a special finding of facts, but omits to find certain facts which a stipulation between the parties, made after the entry of judgment, states were
shown by proof at the trial, this court, on a writ of error, can take notice
only of the facts contained in the special finding.

The facts which make the case are stated in the opinion of
the court.
.X. Percy X. Shuman, for plaintiff in error.
Xr. As8istant Attorney-General 2aury for defendant in
error.

MR.JUSTICE

BLATCHFORD

delivered the opinion of the court.

The Chicago Tyre and 'Spring Works Company, an Illinois
corporation, brought this suit against Jesse Spalding, Collector
of Customs at Chicago, in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Northern District of Illinois, to recover moneys
alleged to have been illegally exacted as duties o, imported
merchandise embraced in three entries made at the customhouse in Chicago in 1S82. The declaration did not mention
what themerchandise was. After plea, the parties stipulated
in writing that the cause should be tried by the court without

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

a jury. It was so tried, and on the 31st of January, 1884, the
following entry, entitled in the suit and headed " Judgment,"
was made in the records of the court:
"This day came the plaintiff and defendant, by their attorneys,, and, the partiqs having heretofore fied their stipulation
in writing, waiving a jury, and submitting the facts in issue to
the court, and the court having heard the evidence and arguments of counsel, and duly considered the same, now finds that
the steel-tire blooms, in the declaration mentioned, are produced
by first casting a flat round ingot of steel, somewhat in the
shape of a cheese or grindstone, with no hole, through the
centre. It is then reheated and hammered, so as to reduce its
thickness, thereby compacting its grain or fibre; a hole is
swedged through its centre; and it is then hammered on the
horn or beak of an anvil, thereby expanding its circumference,
and forming a grain or fibre in its circumferential
direction,
,and, when intended for tires of driving-wheels, the rudiments
of a flange are formed or swedged also upon the outer periphery' of the circle. In this form these blooms are ready for
rolling, and are imported at this stage of development. On
arriving in this country, they are heated and placed in the rolling-machine, where they are rolled or spun into the size and
shape adapting them for use for tires for locomotive drivingwheels or car-wheels, and, after being rolled, the inner and
outer surfaces are turned and finished in a lathe. The court
finds that, when imported, these blooms had passed. through
an important stage in the process of manufacture into steel
tires, and are, therefore, articles of steel partly manufactured,
and were, therefore, properly classified for duties as manufactures of steel, not otherwise provided for. The court, therefore,
finds the issues joined for the defendant. And thereupon the
plaintiff, by its attorney, moves the court for a new trial herein,
and the court, being now fully advised upon said motion, overJules the same and awards judgment. It is thereupon considered and adjudged, by the court, that the defendant do have
and recover of the plaintiff his costs in this behalf expended,
amounting todollars and cents, and that he have
execution therefor."

'TYRE & SPRING WORKS CO. v. SPALDING.

543

Opinion of the Court.

On the same day the following stipulation, entitled in the
cause and signed by the attorneys for the parties, was filed:
"It is hereby stipulated and agreed between the parties to
the above-entitled cause, that, on the trial of the same, it was
proved that the plaintif imported the steel blooms mentioned
in the pleadings and proofs in this case, at the port of Chicago,
during the year 1882, and entered them at the custom-house as
steel blooms, and that the same were assessed a duty of 45 per
cent. ad valorem, by the defendant, collector, as ' manufactures
of steel, not otherwise provided for,'. under the provisions of
Schedule E, ยง 2504, Revised Statutes; that the plaintiff paid the
duty levied thereon, under protest, and in apt time took an appeal to the Secretary of the Treasury, claiming therein that the
blooms in question. were not dutiable as manufactures of steel,
not otherwise provided for, and were not specially provided
for by name in the tariff, but were dutiable at the -rate of.
30 per cent. ad valorem, as 'steel, in any form, not otherwise
provided for,' under the provisions of Schedule E of the same
section; that the Secretary of the Treasury decided such appeal, affirming the action of the collector, and that this suit
was afterwards commenced, in due time, to recover the fifteen
per cent. duty alleged to have been collected in excess, and so
paid under protest; that issue was joined, and, a jury having
been waived in accordance with the statute, the case was subintted to the Court for trial; that the proof shows that the
steel tire blooms in question are produced by first casting a
fiat round ingot of steel, somewhat in the shape of a cheese.
or grindstone, with no hole through* the centre. It is then
reheated and hammered, so as to reduce its thickness, thereby
compacting its grain or fibre; a hole is swedged through its
centre; and it is then hammered on the horn or beak of an
anvil, thereby expanding its circumference, and forming a grain
or fibre in its circumferential direction, and, when intended for
tires, the rudiments of a flange are formed or swedged also
upon the outer periphery of the circle. In thi4 form, these
blooms are ready for rolling and are imported at this stage of
development. On arrival in this country, they are reheated
and placed in the rolling-machine, where they are rolled or

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.

Opinion of the Court.

spun into the size or shape adapting them for use for tires for
locomotive driving-wheels or car-wheels, and, after being rolled,
the inner and outer surfaces are turned and finished in a lathe;
the work which had been expended on them to bring them
from the ingot stage to tire blooms is shown to have been equal
to ten r fifteen dollars per ton; that these blooms are classed
in trade and commerce with steel bars, steel ingots, steel billets,
steel rail blooms, steel plates, and all sorts of forgings, and are
forms of steel known in trade and commerce as steel tire
blooms - that a steel casting which has been hammered ready
for rolling is a bloom; that hammering an ingot to prepare it
for rolling is called blooming, regardless of the shape into
which the steel is made by rolling or hammering; that, when
imported, these blooms were ready for rolling and were im-,
ported at this stage of development. And the Court, after
hearing all of the evidence, found, that, when imported, these
blooms had passed through an important stage in the process
of manufacure into steel tires, and are, therefore, articles of
steel partly manufactured, and were, therefore, properly classified for duties as manufactures of steel, not otherwise pro.vided for. And the Court found the issues for the defendant.
That the plaintiff excepted to said finding of the Court, viz.,
that the blooms were properly classified for duties as manufactures of steel, not otherwise provided for, as not being in
accordance with the evidence, and moved the Court to grant a
new trial, which motion Was olverruled and judgment was
entered for the defendant."
There is no bill of exceptions, but the plaintiff has sued out
a writ of error to review the judgment.
Schedule E of ยง 2504 of the Revised Statutes, 2d ed., p. 465,
in force at the time of these entries, contains the following
provisions as to duties on imports:
"All manufactures of steel, or of which steel shall be a component part, not otherwise provided for: forty-five per centum
ad valorem. But all articles of steel partially manufactured, or
of which steel shall be a component part, not otherwise provided for, shall pay the same rate of duty as if wholly manufactured."

TYRE & SPRING WORKS CO. v. SPALDING.

545

Opinion of the Court.

"Locomotive tire, or parLs thereof: three cents per pound."
"Steel, in ingots, bars, coils, sheets, and steel wire, not less
than one-fourth of one inch in diameter, valued at seveit cents
per pound or less: two cents and one-fourth per pound; valued
at above seven cents and not above eleven cents per pound:
three cents per pound; valued at above eleven cents per pound:
three cents and a half per pound, and ten per centum ad
valorem." p. 466.
"Steel, in any form, not otherwise provided for: thirty per
centum ad valorem." p. 466.
The contention on the part of the plaintiff is, that the articles
in question were merely steel blooms, not manufactured articles,
or partially ma'hufactured articles, but only forms of steel, called
steel tire blooms, and, therefore, subject to a duty of 30 per
cent. ad valorem, and not to a duty of 45 per cent. ad valorem.
The court, in the paper which contains the judgment, finds
certain facts, evidently intended to be facts specially found,
under ยง 649 of the Revised Statutes. On these facts it bases
its conclusion of law, that the articles were properly classified
for duties as manufactures of steel, not otherwise provided for,
and its judgment for the defendant. The stipulation in the
record, above set forth, is a paper signed after the trial, intended to take the place and serve the purpose of a duly signed
bill of exceptions. It states what was proved on the trial as
to the importations, the entries, the assessments and payments.
of duties, the protests, the appeals, the action thereon, and the
bringing of the suit in time. It then states what the proof
showed, on the trial, as to the manner of producing the steel
tire blooms in question, and as to their condition, when imported, and as to how they were treated on their arrival in
'this country. It then states what the proof showed as to the
value per ton of the work put on them from the ingot stage
until they arrived at the condition in which they were imported; and as to how they were classed and known in trade
and commerce; and as to what a bloom and blooming are;
but these last mentioned matters are none of them found as
facts by the court, in its findings. The stipulation then states
what the court found, as a conclusion of law, and that the
VOL. cxvr- 35

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

plaintiff excepted thereto. On this state of the record, this
court is authorized, under section 'TOO of the Revised Statutes,
to 'determine whether the facts specially found by the Circuit
Court are sufficient to support the judgment; but it can take
no notice of any facts not thus specially found, because they
were not found by the court below, and this court, as an
appellate court, cannot try an issue of fact. The stipulation,
however, does not contain any agreement as to the existence
of any facts, but merely a statement as to what the proof
showed on the trial ; and does not state that the parties agreed,
in advance, on the facts found by the court, or how they were
proved; but states that the court heard all the evidence. 'As
to any facts stated in the stipulation to have been shown by
proof at the trial, if they are not contained in the special find,ngs, the only conclusion can be that the court did not find
them to be facts. So, the case must be- adjudicated on the
special findings alone.
In the findings, the articles are described as "steel tire
blooms;" not only steel and blooms, but steel tire blooms.
This would indicate that they were steel blooms having some
purpose in connection with tires. It is then set forth how they
are produced. A flat round ingot of steel, somewhat in the
shape of a cheese or a grindstone, is cast, but without a hole
in its centre. It is. then reheated and hammered, so as to
reduce its thickness, thereby compacting its grain or fibre. A
hole is then swedged through its centre, and it is then hammered on the horn or beak of an anvil; thereby expanding
its circumference, and forming a grain or fibre in its circumferential direction. It is plain, so far, that the articles are
being pitt into a shape in which they can be worked into tires,
either for the driving-Wheels of locomotives or for car-wheels,
depending on their size, shape and weight. The findings go on
to say, that, "when intended for tires of driving-wheels, the
rudiments of a flange are formed or swedged also upon the
outer periphery of 'the circle." This is not a statement as to
whether these particular blooms were intended to be tires for
driving-wheels or for car-wheels. It is then stated that the
blooms are ready for rolling and are imported at this stage.

TYRE & SPRING WORKS CO. v. SPALDING.

547

Opinion of the Court.

Then it is said: "On arriving in this country, they are heated
and placed in the rolling-machine, where they are rolled or
spun into the size and shape adapting them for use for tires for
locomotive driving-wheels or car-wheels, and, after being rolled,.
the inner and outer surfaces are turned and finished in a lathe."
But this is not a statement as to whether these particular
blooms were adapted or intended to be made into tires for
driving-wheels, or for car-wheels, or for both, or some for one
and some for the other.
It is not found by the court that these blooms were partly
manufactured tires for the driving-wheels of locomotives. On
the contrary, the concluding statement in the findings is, that
"these blooms had passed through an important stage. in the
process of manufacture into steel tires." They may all have
been blooms of which only tires for car-wheels, and no tires
for driving-wheels, could have been made, or were intended to
be made. The collector and the Secretary of the Treasury
may have so decided.
Those decisions stand and are conclusive, under ยง 2931 of the Revised Statutes, until the contrary
is shown in a suit. Arnon v. Xurphy, 115 U. S.579. The
contrary is not shown. The case is not one of a doubt as to
the meaning of the statute, or of a doubt as to what statute
applies to a specific article ; but is one of a failure of '.he importer to show that the decisions 6f the collector and of the
Secretary as to the rate and amount of duties were erroneous.
These views also meet the suggestion of the plaintiff, that, if
these steel blooms were partially manufactured locomotive
tires or parts of tires, they were dutiable at three cents per
pound. The stipulation states that the protest was that the
articles were not specially provided for by name in tho tariff,
but were liable to the thirty per cent. duty, and not to the
forty-five.
It being assumed, as it must be on the findings, that these
blooms were adapted and intended for tires for car-wheels, and
not for driving-wheels, it is clear, we think, that they were partially manufactured tires of that character, and were not otherwise provided for, and were subject to forty-five per cent. duty,
and were not subject to thirty per cent. duty, because, though

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

forms of steel, they were provided for under the forty-five per
cent. clause.
It is conceded by the Government, that, if these blooms were.
ordinary steel blooms, that is, merely hammered steel castings,
they would not be articles of steel partially manufactured or
liable to forty-five per cent. duty, but would be liable to only
thirty per cent. duty. But the hammering on the horn of the
anv.l formed a grain or fibre circumferentially, and this is what
the court, in its findings, called the "important stage" through
which the blooms had passed, "in the process of manufacture
into steel tires."
Judgment aff med.

OTIS -. OREGON STEAMSHIP COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORE.
Submitted January 25, 1886-Decided February 1, 1886.

If a record shows on its face that a Federal question was not necessarily
involved in the decision of a, case in a State Court, and does not show
affirmatively that one was raised, this court will not go out of the record to
the opinion of that court, or elsewhere, to ascertain whether one was in fact
decided.

.More v. ifisiwippi, 21 Wall. 636, affirmed and applied.

This was a motion to dismiss a writ of error for want of
jurisdiction. The facts which make the case are stated in the
opinion of the court.
.Mb'. George I

Adam&for the motion.

.r. Johln H Se.miong and Xir. ohn R. Abmey opposing.
40Ii~JusTIcE WA TE delivered the opinion of the court,
This is a suit brought December 12, 1878, by the Oregon
Steamship Company, the defendant in error, against George K.

MR.

