HEALY v. JOLIET & CHICAGO RAILROAD CO.

191

Opinion of the Court.
REALY & Another v. JOLIET & CHICAGO RAILROAD COMPANY & Another.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.
Argued December 16, 17, 1883.-Decided January 4, 1SM

The bridge built by the Joliet and Chicago Railroad Company and maintained
by the Chicago and Alton Railroad Company over Healy Slough, does not
cross it at a point where it is a navigable highway for the public.

The facts which make the case are stated in th opinion of
the court.
2r. Samuel
brief.

. Rice for plaintiffs in error submitted on Ins

.r.

George TV. Smith for defendants in error.

yr-

JUSTIcE

MILLER

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a writ of error to the Supreme Court of Illinois.
Th-e plaintiffs in error, who were plaintiffs below, brought
suit ih the Circuit Court of Cook County of that State, praying for an abatement, or other appropriate relief, against a
railroad bridge across Healy Slough, built by the Joliet and
Chicago Railroad Company in 1856, and now kept up and
maintained by the Chicago and Alton Railroad Company.
This bridge is alleged to be an obstruction to the navigation
of the slough, and therefore a nuisance, in regard to which
plaintiffs suffer special damage, as owners of certain real estate
situated above the bridge, which obstructs the access of vessels
coming from Lake Michigan or from the Chicago River
through that river and through the slough to plaintiffs' lots.
It is alleged that this slough, at the point where the bridge
was built, was a navigable water of the United States, in the
navigation of which plaintiffs had especial interest, and that it
was navigable from the Chicago River up to and beyond the
lots of plaintiffs, and that this navigability was seriously impaired by the bridge of defendaqnts.
The answer denied that the slough was a navigable stream,

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

and asserted authority under the charter of the Jolier and
Chicago Railroad Company to build the bridge as had been
done. Much testimony was taken as to the nature and character
of the slough in reference to its navigability, and, on hearing,
the Circuit Court of Cook County dismissed the bill. An appeal was taken to the appellate court of the First Judicial
District of the State, which reversed the judgment of the
Circuit Court and granted- relief against the bridge as a'
nuisance.
On further appeal to the Supreme Court of the State, the
judgment of the appellate court was reversed, and the order
,of the Circuit Court dismissing the bill was affirmed.
It appears from the opinions delivered in the appellate court
and in the Supreme Court, both of which are found in the
record, that there was no difference between them on aly
question of law, but that they differed on the question whether
the slough was in fact a public navigable water at the time
the bridge was built .over it. The Court of Appeals says:
"Whether the Healy Slough is navigable in such sense as to
constitute it a common highway must depend upon its capabilities, in its' natural state and ordinary volume of water, of being tilized for purposes of commerce or transportation. This
presents a mere question of fact to be determined by the
evidence in the record." On this evidence that court held that
in its natural state the sl6ugh was a navigable highway for
the public.
The Supreme Court says in its opinion: ".The question raised
may be treated simply as a question of fact,. viz.: Is the body
of water spanned by the railroad bridge navigable in the sense
of that term as used in the law t We think it is not."
On this question of disputed fact, so far as we have any
right to inquire into it under this writ of error, we concur in
the opinion held by the Supreme Court, and by the Circuit
Court, and do not deem it necessary to set out in this opinion
a comparison or examination of the evidence, which is voluminous, as it can serve no good purpose.
The decree of the Supreme Court of Illinois is
Affirmed.

