OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

DOE v. LARMORE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ALABAMA.
Submitted December 17, 1885-Decided January 4, 16.

The act of April 10, 1869, 16 Stat. 45, "to renew certain grants of land tothe
State of Alabama," which were granted. by the act of June 8, 1856. 11
Stat. 17, is not to be construed as a new and original grant, but as an extension of the time named in the original act for the completion of the
railroads referred to in it.
St. Louis, Iron Mountain and Southern Railway Co. v. McGee, 115 U. S.
469, affirmed and applied.

This was an action of ejectment brought in the Circuit Court
of DeKalb County, Alabama. Judgment" for the defendant,
which was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the State. This
writ of error was sued out to review the latter judgment.
The facts which make the case are stated in the opinion of
the court.
Xr. Szmuel F. Rice for plaintiffs in error.
.Y.
MiF.

ohn

. MXorgan for defendant in error.

CHIEF JUSTICE

WArmrs delivered the opinion of the court.

This case cannot be distinguished in principle from St.
Loui8, ron fIountain and Souther Railway Co. v. .XcGee,
115 U. S. 469, decided at the present term. The suit was
ejectment to recover the possession of certain tracts of land
granted June 3, 1856, by an act of Congress to the State of
Alabama to aid in building a railroad "from Gadsden to connect with the Georgia and Tennessee line of railroad through
Chattanooga, Wills' and' Lookout Valleys." 11 Stat. 17, ch.
41. Sections 3 and 4 of this act are identical with sections 4
and 5 of the act involved in Afc Gee's case, and they provided
that if the road was not completed in ten years all unsold
land should revert to the United States. On the 30th of
January, 1858, the legislature of Alabama by a joint resolution transferred this grant to the Wills' Valley Railroad
Company, "to be used and applied by said company upon the

DOE v. LARMORE.
Opinion of the Court.

terms, conditions, and under restrictions in said act of Congress contained." Sess. Laws Ala. 1857-8, 431. On the 29th of
June, 1860, the lands involved in this suit were certified to the
State by the Commissioner of the General Land Office under
the grant, and on the 20th of February, 1861, they were sold by
the company to Larmore, the defendant, and certain other persons who paid the purchase money and entered into'possession.
The proceeds of the sale were used in -building the road, and,
on the 7th of June, 1866, the company conveyed the lands in
fee simple to the purchasers "against the clain and title of the
said Wills' Valley Railroad Company, and of any person or
persons claiming under said company." The other grantees
named in the deed have since conveyed all their interest to
Larmore, who is now in possession. The road was not completed within ten years after the passage of the act of Congress, and, on the 10th of April, 1869, another Act was passed,
entitled "An Act to renew certain grants of land to the State
of Alabama," 16 Stat. 45, ch. 24, by which this grant was "revived and renewed."
The name of the Wills' Valley Railroad Company was changed
to Alabama and Chattanooga Railroad Company in 1868, and
on the 2d of March, 1870, the company under that name obtained from the .State a loan of State bonds to aid in the completion of its road. The road was afterwards finished so as to
perfect title under the original grant. On the 8th of February, 1877, the State executed a deed to John A. Billups and
John Swann, trustees, which purported to convey the lands in
dispute, under a compromise agreement with the railroad company, to protect the interests of the holders of the State bonds
which had been loaned to the company in 1870.
The claim of the plaintiff is that, as the lands in question
were not fully earned when the sale was made under which
Larmore holds title, and the road was not completed within
the ten years fixed by the act of 1856, these lands, as well as
those not sold at the end of the ten years, reverted at the end
of that time to the United States, and passed again to the
State under the act of 1869, which is to be construed as a new
grant. We held otherwise in .YoGee8 case, and under that

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

ruling the act of 1869 is to be treated as an extension of the
time named in the original act for the completion of the road.
As between the company and Larmore the title passed under
the deed of 1866, which was executed to give effect to the
sale in 1861. The completion of the road within the time fixed
by the new act perfected the title of the company under the
original grant, and this title inured at once to the benefit of
Larmore. As the judgment below sustained Larmore's title
and dismissed the suit, it was right, and it is consequently

4t rAned.

KINGS COUNTY SAVINGS INSTITUTION v. BLAIR.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR TE

EASTERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Argued December 15, 1885.-Decided January 4, 1880.

A suit cannot be maintained against a collector of internal revenue to recover
back taxes alleged to have been illegally exacted, when the tax-payer has
failed within two years next after the cause of action accrued to present
to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue his claim for the refunding in the
manner pointed out by law.

This was an action at law to recover back taxes alleged to
have been illegally exacted by a collector of internal revenue.
The facts which make the case are stated in the opinion of
the court.
X. Lewis Sanders for plaintiff in error.
Sanders was with him on the brief.)

(.Afr. George ff.

21Cr. Solicitor-Gen-eralfor defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE WOODS delivered the opinion of the court.
The Kings County Savings Institution, plaintiff in error, was
the plaintiff in the Circuit Court. It brought its action, as for
money had and received, against the defendant in error, as administrator of the estatepf James Freeland, deceased, late col-

