OCTOBER TERM,, 1885.,
Opinion of the Court.

UNITED STATES v. MOONEY.
EROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE

DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.
Argued November 25, 1885.-Decided December 14, 1885.

The exclusive jurisdiction conferred upon District Courts of the United States,
before the enactment of the Judiciary Act of March .3, 1875, over suits for
the recovery of penalties and forfeitures under the customs laws of the
United States, is not taken away by the first section of that act.

This was an action at law, brought in the Circuit Court to
recover of the defendant $20,000, the value of certain merchan"dise imported by him, which it was alleged he had forfeited to
the United States, because he had knowingly, and with intent
to defraud the revenue, made an entry of the same by means
of false and fraudulent invoices.
The defendant moved the court to dismiss the suit for want
of jurisdiction to entertain it. The court sustained the motion,
and the plaintiffs brought this writ of error.
-

Ab'. Solicitor-Generalfor plaintiff in error.
.Mr. Charleq Levi Woodbury for defendant in error.

MR. JUSTICE WooDs delivered the opinion of the court. After
stating the facts in the language above reported, he continued:
The ninth section of the Judiciary Act of September 24,
1789 ch. 20, 1 Stat. '6, provided as follows: "The District
Courts shall have exclusive original cognizance" "of all suits
for penalties and .forfeitures incurred under the laws of the
United States," Since the passage of that act several statutes
have been enadted giving the Circuit Courts jurisdiction of suits
for' penalties and forfeitures, Rev. Stat. § 629, subdivisions -4,
5,1', 15, but it is 'conceded by the counsel for the plaintiffs that
the -exclusive jurisdiction of all suits for penalties and forfeitures under the customs laws of the United States continued in

UNITED STATES v. MOONEY.
Opinion of the Court.
the District Courts until the passage of the act of March 3,
1875, entitled "An Act to determine the jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts of the United States," ch. 137, 18 Stat: 470, and
still continues, unless the act mentioned gives concurrent jurisdiction of such suits to the Circuit Courts. The plaintiffs insist
that such is the effect of the first section of -the act of March
3, 1875. That section provides.: "That the Circuit Courts of
the United States shall have original cognizance, concurren
with the courts of the several States, of all suits of a civil nature, at common law or in equity, where the matter in dispute
exceeds, exclusive of costs, the sum or value of five hundred
dollars, and arising under the Constitution or laws of the
United States," "or in which the United States are plaintiffs
or petitioners," &c. The contention is that this section invests
the Circuit Courts with jurisdiction, concurrent with the District Courts, of all suits for penalties and forfeitures under the
customs laws of the United States. The argument to support
the contention is that the section includes within its terms all
suits to recover penalties and forfeitures, because such suits are
of a civil nature at common law and the United States are plaintiffs; and when the amount in controversy is over $500
all the conditions necessary to give jurisdiction are fulfilled.
Admitting the plausibility of the argument, we are not able
to adopt the conclusion to which it leads. For more thanthree-quarters of a century, under the ninth section of the act
of 1789, the exclusive jurisdiction of the District Courts, in
suits for penalties and forfeitures under the customs'laws was
unquestioned. In The Oa8iu8,. 2 Dall. 365, decided in 1796
by the United States Circuit Court for the District ofPennsyl'vania, and in Evan8 v. Bolle, 4 Dall. 342, decided -by this
court in 1800, it was held that under the Judiciary Act of 1789
the Circuit'Courts had no jurisdiction of suits for penalties and
forfeitures under the -laws of the United States. These decisions have never been overruled, and the law has remained
unchanged, except where jurisdiction of suits for penalties and
forfeitures has been given to the Circuit Courts in special cases
by'statute. This construction of the ninth section of the act
of 1789 prevailed, notwithstanding the rovisions of section

106

OCTOBER .TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

eleven of that act, which were as follows: "The Circuit Courts
shall have original cognizance, concurrent with the courts of
the several States, of all suits of a civil nature, at common law
or in equity, when the matter in dispute exceeds, exclusive of
costs, the sum or value of five hundred dollars, and the United
States are'plaintiffs or petitioners." 1 Stat. 78. This is substantially the same, in respect of the question before us, as the
first section of the act of 1875, which is relied on to take away
the exclusive. jurisdiction of the District Courts. But it was
never 'supposed that under the act of 1789 tha provisions of
.§ 11 interfered with the exclusive jurisdiction conferred on the
District Courts by . 9 of the same act. It was never held that
the words "all suits of a civil nature, at common law or in
equity," used in § 11, included suits for penalties and forfeitures of which the District Courts had been given exclusive
jurisdiction by § 9. How, then, can the substantial re-enactment of § -11 by the act of March 3, 1875, with modifications
immaterial, as far as the question in hand is concerned, have
an effect which the original section did not? As said by the
Circuit Court in its well-considered opinion in this case, 11 Fed.
Rep. 476, "the restricted meaning attached for eighty-six years
to the language of the, eleventh section of the act of 1789 is
presumed to attach to the same language in the act of 1875."
IC is not to be supposed -that Congress, in using in the act of
1875 the same language, so fai as the present question is concerned, -as 'that emplbyed in the act of 1789, intended to give
it a meaning different.from that put upon it by this court, and
which had remained unchallenged for three-quarters of a centuiry...
To sugtain'the contention'of the plaintiffs, we must hold that
the purpose of § 1 of the act of March 3,1875, was to repeal by
impli6ation and supersede all the laws conferring jurisdiction
on the Circuit Courts, and of itself to cover and regulate the
whole subject. But this construction would lead to consequences which it is clear Congress did not contemplate. All
the laws in force December 1, 1873, prescribing the jurisdiction
of thei Circuit Courts were reproduced in Rev. Stat. § 629, and
the jurisdiction was stated under twenty distinct heads, eighteen

'UNITED STATES v. A1OO1EY.
Opinion of 'the Court.

of which had reference to the jurisdiction in civil cases. In sixteen of these eighteen heads the jurisdictior is conferred without reference to the amount in controversy. This is the case,
among others, in all suits at common law where the United
States are plaintiffs; in all suits and proceedings for the enforcement of any penalties provided by laws regulating the
carriage in merchant vessels; in all suits I y the assignee of any
debenture for drawback duties against the person to whom such
debenture was originally granted to recover the amount thereof;
in all suits at common law or in equity arising under the patent
or copyright laws of the United States; in all suits brought by
any person to recover damages for an injury to his person or
property, on account of any act done by him under any law of
the United States for the protection or collection of any of the
revenues thereof ; and in all suits to recover pecuniary forfeitures under any act to enforce the right of citizens of the United
States to vote in the several States. The act of 1875 confers
jurisdiction on the Circuit Courts only in cases where the matter in dispute exceeds $500. If that act is intended to supersede previous acts conferring jurisdiction on the Circuit Courts,
then those courts are left without jurisdiction in any of the
cases above specified where'the amount in controversy does not
exceed the sum of $500, and in several classes of cases, for instance, suits arising under the patent or copyright laws, neither
the Circuit nor District Court of the United States would have
jurisdiction when the amount in controvers y is less than $500.
But by Rev. Stat. § 711, par. 5, the jurisdiction of the State
courts in cases arising under the patent and copyright laws is
excluded. Therefore, when the matter in dispute in a case
arising under these laws is less than $500, if we yield to the
contention of plaintiffs, it would follow that no court whatever
has jurisdiction. A construction which involves such results
was clearly not contemplated by Congress.
The act of 1875, it is clear, was not intended to interfere with
the prior statutes conferring jurisdiction upon the Circuit or
District Courts in special cases, and over particular subjects.
Thi'd Nat. Bank of St. Dmztis v. Harrison,3 McCrary, 162.
Its purpose was to give to the Circuit Courts a jurisdiction

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Syllabus.

which the Federal courts did not then possess, by enlarging
their jurisdiction in suits of a civil nature at common law or in
equity, and not to take away from the Circuit or District
Courts jurisdiction conferred by prior statutes, or to divide the
jurisdiction which had for so long a time been vested exclusively in the District Courts. Price v. Abbott, 17 Fed. Rep.
506.
Thus construed, there is no conflict between § 1 the act of
March 3, 1875, and § 9 of the act of 1789, which conferred exclusiie jurisdiction on the District Courts of suits for penalties
and forfeitures incurred under the laws of the United States.
The latter section, therefore, except as modified by statutes
conferring jurisdiction upon the Circuit Courts in special cases,
still rbmains in force, and the Circuit Court was right in dismissing the case for want of jurisdiction.
Judgnment ,fmed.

COYLE v. DAVIS & Another.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLMBIA.
Submitted Decenber 4,188.-Argued December 9, 188S.-Decided December21, 1885.

The grantor in an absolute deed of an undivided interest in land, in fee-simple, sought; by a suit in equity, against the grantee, to have it declared a
mortgage. There was no defeasance, either in the deed or in a collateral
paper, and the parol evidence that there wasa debt, and that the intention
was to secure it by a mortgage, was not clear, unequivocal, and convinc
ing, and it was held, that 16e presumption that the instrument was what
" purported to be must prevail.
The weight of the testimony was, that the transaction was a sale, and that the
propert y was' sold for about its sale value, in view of the facts, that there
was a poorly built and poorly arranged building on the premises, which
was incapable of actual partition, and that the law did not permit a partition by a sale in iutum, arid that the grantor's interest was a minority
interest.

In equity. In the absence of plaintiff's counsel when this

