RAILROAD COMMISSION CASES.
Syllabus in Stone v. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co.

RAILROAD COMMISSION CASES.
Argued October 13, 14, 1885.-Decided January 4, 1888.

STONE & Others v. FARMERS' LOAI & TRUST
COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF :MISSISSIPPI.

The right of a State to reasonably limit the amount of charges by a railroad
company for the transportation of persons and property within its jurisdiction, cannot be granted away by its legislature unless by words of positive
grant, or words equivalent in law.
A statute which grants to a railroad company the right "from time to time to
fix, regulate rind receive, the tolls and charges by them to be received for
transportation," does not deprive the State of its power, within the limits
of its general authority, as controlled by the Constitution of the United
States, to act upon the reasonableness of the tolls and charges so fixed and
regulated.
An act of incorporation, which confers upon the directors of a railroad company the power to make by-laws, rules and regulations touching the disposition and management of the company's property and all matters appertaining to its concerns, confers no right which is violated by the creation
of a State Railroad Commission, charged with the general duty of preventing the exaction of unreasonable or discriminating rates upon transportation done within the limits of the State, and with the enforcement of
reasonable police regulations for the comfort, convenience and safety of
travellers and persons doing business with the company within the State.
A railroad forming a continuous line in two or more States, and owned and
managed by a corporation whose corporate powers are derived from the
legislature of each State in which the road is situated, is, as to the domestic
traffic in each State, a corporation of that State, subject to State laws not
in conflict with the Constitution of the United States.
This court agrees with the Supreme Court of Mississippi, that a statute creating a commission, and charging it with the duty of supervising railroads,
is not in conflict with the Constitution of that State.
The provisions of the statute of Mississippi of March 11, 1884, creating a railroad commission, are not so inconsistent and uncertain as to necessarily
render the entire act void on its face.

This was a suit brought by the Farmers' Loan and Trust
Company, a New York corporation, to enjoin the Railroad

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts in Stone v. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co.

Commission of Mississippi from enforcing against the Mobile
and Ohio Railroad Company the provisions of the statute of
Mississippi passed March 11, 1884, entitled "An Act to provide
for the regulation of freight and passenger rates on railroads
in 'this State, and to create a commission to supervise the same,
and for other purposes." That act was as follows:
"SEcTION 1. Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of
Missispippi, That the track of every railroad in this State is a
public highway, over which all persons have equal rights of
transportation for passengers and freights on the payment of
just compensation to the owner of the railroad for such transportation; and any person or corporation engaged in transporting passengers or freights over any railroad in this State, who
shall exact, receive, or demand more than the rate specified in
any bill of lading issued by such person or corporation, or who,
for his or its advantage, or for the advantage of any connecting line, or for any person or locality, shall make any discrimination in transportation against any individual, locality, or
corporation, shall be guilty of extortion."
Sections2 and 3 related to the punishment of those so guilty
and their liability in double damages to parties injured.
Sections 4 and 5 provided for the appointment of three commissioners, to be known as the Railroad Commission of the
State of Mississippi, prescribed their qualifications and tenure
of office, fixed their salaries, and subjected them to penalties
and punishment for violation of duty.
Section 6 was as follows:
"SEC. 6. Be it further enacted, That it shall be the duty of
all persons or corporations who shall own or operate a railroad
in this State, within thirty days after the passage of this act,'
to furnish the commission with its tariff of charges for transportation of every kind; and it shall be the duty of said commission to revise said tariff of charges so furnished, and determine whether or not, and in what particular, if any, said
charges are more than just compensation for the services to be
rendered, and whether or not unjust discrimination is made in
such tariff of charges against any person, locality, or corporation, and when said charges are corrected, as approved by said

RAILROAD COMMISSION CASES.
Statement of Facts in Stone v. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co.

commission, the commissiofi shall then append a certificate of
its approval to said tariff of charges; but in revising or establishing any and every tariff of charges it shall be the duty of
said commission to take into consideration the character and
nature of the services to be performed and the entire business
of such railroad, together with its earnings from the passenger and other traffic, and so revise such tariffs as to allow a
fair and just return on the value of such railroad, its appurtehances, and equipments; and it shall be the duty of said commission to exercise a watchful and careful supervision over
every such tariff of charges, and continue such tariff of charges
from time to time as justice to the public and each of said railroad companies may require, and to increase or reduce any of
said rates according as experience and business operations may
show to be just; and said commission shall accordinglr fix
tariffs of charges for those railroads failing to furnish tariffs as
above required. And it shall be the duty of said railroad
companies or persons operating any railroad in this State to
post at each of its depots all rates, schedules, and tariffs for
the transportation of passengers and freights, made or approved by said railroad commission, with said certificate of approval, within ten days after said approval, in some conspicuous place at such depot; and it shall be unlawful for any such
person or corporation to make any rebate or reduction from
such tariff in favor of any person, locality, or corporation which
shall not be made in favor of all other persons, -ocalities, or corporations by a change in such published rates, except as may
be allowed by the commission; and when any change is contemplated to be made in the schedule of passenger or freight
rates of any railroad by the commission, said commission shall
give the person or corporation operating or managing said
railroad notice in writing at least ten days before sucl change
of the time and place at which such change will be considered."
Section 7 made it unlawful for a company to grant reductions or rebates prohibited by the act, and fixed a penalty for
so doing.
Section 8 allowed reduced rates for certain kinds of transportation.

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts in Stone v. Farmers' Loan, & Trust Co.

Section 9 was as follows:
"SEC. 9. Be it further enacted, That it shall be the duty of
said commission to hear all complaints made by any person
against any such tariff of rates so approved, on the ground
that the same in any respect is for more than just compensa'tion, or that such charges, or any of them, amount to or operate so as to effect unjust discrimination; such complaint must
'be in writing, and specify the items in the tariff against which
complaint is made; and if it appears to the commission that
there may be justice in the complaint, or that the matter ought
to be investigated, the commission shall forthwith furnish to*
the person or corporation operating the railroad a copy of the
complaint, together with notice, which said notice shall be
served as other legal process is now required by law to be
served on railroad companies, that at a time and place stated
in the notice the tariff as to said items will be revised by the
c ommission, and at such time and place it shall be the duty of
the commission to hear the parties to the controversy in person
or by counsel, or both, and such evidence as may be offered,
oral or in writing, and may examine witnesses on oath, conforming to the mode of proceedings, as nearly as may be convenient, to that required of arbitrators, giving such time and
latitude to each side and regulating the opening and conclusion
of any argument as the commission may consider best adapted
to arrive at the truth; and when the hearing is concluded the
commission shall give notice of any change deemed proper by
them to be made to the person or corporation operating the
railroad: Provided,In no instance shall any corporation, railroad, or person be criminally or civilly liable for the making
of any charge or discrimination whatever, if the same is not in
violation of the tariff of charges or rules and regulations prescribed by the commission2'
Sections 10 and 11 were unimportant in this case.
The remainder of the statute was as follows:

"SEC. 12. Be it further enacted, That every person or cor-

poration operating a railroad in the State shall furnish the said
commission with all the information required relative to the
management of their respective lines, and particularly with

RAILROAD COMMISSION OASES.
Statement of Facts in Stone v. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co.

copies of all leases, contracts, and agreements for transportation with express, sleeping-car, or other companies to which
they are parties.
"SEe. 13. Be it further enacted, That every railroad company shall, within twenty-four hours after the occurrence of
any accident to a train, attended with serious personal injury,
on any portion of its line within the limits of this State, give
notice of the same to the railroad commissioners, who, upon
information of such accident, may repair or dispatch one 'or
more of their number to the scene of said accident and inquire
into the facts and circumstances thereof, which shall be recorded in the minutes of their proceedings, and embraced in
their annual report.
" SEe. 14. Be it further enacted, That the commission shall
make annual reports to the governor on or before the first day
of January in each year, for transmission to the legislature, of
their doings for the year ending on the 30th day of September
next preceding, containing such facts as will disclose the actual
working of the railway system in this State, and such suggestions as to the general railroad policy of the State as may seem
to them appropriate.
"SEC. 15. Be it further enacted, That it shall be the duty of
every railroad company or person operating a railroad iA this
State to make quarterly returns of the business of said railroad
to the railroad commission of Mississippi, which returns shall
embrace all the receipts and expenditures of said railroad, and
to be made according to forms furnished by the said railroad
commissioners for that purpose.
"SEc. 16. Be it further enacted, That the quarterly returns
herein provided shall be made as aforesaid within thirty days
after the end of each quarter to which they relate, and any
railroad company, or persons operatifig any railroad in this
State, which shall fail or refuse to make the quarterly returns,
as provided for in this act, shall forfeit to the State of Mississippi fifty dollars for every day of such refusal or neglect.
"SEo. 17. Be it further enacted, That the said quarterly returns shall be sworn to by one or more officers of said company, or of the persons operating the said railroad, who has

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts in Stone v. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co.

knowledge of their truth,.and any person knowingly swearing
falsely to any statement in any of said quarterly reports shall
be guilty of perjury.
1 "SEc. 18. Be it further enacted, That it shall be the duty of
the commissioners to inspect the depots of the railroads operated in this State, and see that at least one comfortable and
suitable reception-room is provided at each depot for the use
and accommodation of persons desiring and awaiting transportation over their line, and any railroad company failing or refusing to provide such room, after sixty days' notice from the com-,
missioners to provide the same, shall be liable to a penalty of
not less than fifty dollars for each day they so fail or refuse to
provide such room, and said railroad company shall keep at all
times in such reception rooms a bulletin board, which shll
show the time of the arrival and departure of trains, and when
any passenger train or other train for transporting passengers
is delayed, notice of same shall be made on said bulletin board
for the information of passengers, stating as nearly as can' b.
ascertained the extent of the delay and probable time 'of arrival.
"SEC. 19. Be it further enacted, That the determination of

every matter of said commission shall be in writing, and proof
thereof shall be made by a copy of the same, duly certified to
by the clerk of said commission.; and whenever any matter has
been determined by said commission, in the course of any proceeding before it relating to the regulation or supervision of any
railroad in this State, and coming within the jurisdiction of such
commission, proof of the fact of such determination, duly certified as aforesaid, shall be received in all the courts of this
State, or before any officers thereof, in all civil cases, as prima
facie evidence that such determination was right and proper,
a-d the record of the proceedings of said commission shall be
deemed a public record, and shall at all reasonable times be
subject to the inspection of the public.
"SEc. 20. Be it further enacted, That said commission, or
any one of said commissioners, may, in the discharge of any of
the duties imposed upon them by this act, administer oaths,
take affidavits, and summon and examine witnesses under oath,
in all matters coming before them, and if any person shall tes-

RAILROAD COMMISSION CASES.
Statement of Facts in Stone v. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co.

'tify, or make any false affidavit or oath, before said commission,
or before any of said commissioners, or before any officers, to
any matter coming before said commission, he shall be deemed
guilty of perjury, and, upon conviction thereof, shall be- punished according to law.
"SEo. 21. Be it further enacted, That all summons for witnesses to appear before said commission, or before any one or
more of said commissioners, and notice to persons or corporations, shall be issued by one of said commissioners, and be directed, to any sheriff, constable, or marshal, of any city or town,
who shall execute the same in his bailiwick, and make due return thereof as directed therein, under the penalties prescribed
by law for a, failure to execute and return the process of any
court; and if any person, duly summoned to appear and testify
before said commission, or before any pne or more of said commissioners, shall fail or refuse to appear and testify without a
lawful excuse, or shall refuse to'answer any proper question
propounded to him by said commission, or any of said commissioners, or if any person shall obstruct said commission, or oine
or more of said commissioners, in the discharge of duty, or shall
conduct himself in a rude, disrespectful, or disorderly manner
before said commission, or any of them deliberating in the
discharge of duty, such person shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not less
than fifty nor more than one thousand dollars.
"SEoc. 22. Be-it further enacted, That witnesses summoned
1o appear before said commission shall be entitled to the same
per diem and milkage as witnesses attending Circuit Court;.
and witnesses summoned by said cofnmission on its behalf shall
be paid out of the State treasury on warrants, to be drawn by
the auditor upon the certificate of the commission, showing the
amount and items thereof, to which suh witness may be entitled; and witnesses summoned for any railroad shall be paid
by such railroad.
"SEc. 23. Be it further enacted, That if any railroad com-

pany, or person, or corporation operating any railroad in this
State, shall violate any of the provisions of this act, or the
tariff of charges, as fixed by such commission, such company,

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts in Stone v. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co.

person, or corporation, shall be liable to a penalty of five hundred dollars for each violation not otherwise provided for; and
such penalty may be recovered by an action to be brought in
the name of the State of Mississippi in any county where such
violation may occur, or injury or wr6ng be done. The commission shall institute such action through the district attorney
of the proper district, and no such suit shall be dismissed without the consent of the court and of said commission; and if any
-district attorney shall neglect for thirty days, after notice to
'bring any such suit, the commission may direct some attorneyat-law to bring the same, and his fee therefor shall be fixed by
the court, and shall not exceed fifty per cent. of the amount
collected; and the district attorney shall not interfere in such
suit, and the same shall not be dismissed without consent as
aforesaid: Provided,That in all trials of cases brought for a
violation of any tariff of charges, as fixed by the commission,
it may be shewn in defence that such tariff so fixed was unjust.
"SE. 24. Be it further enacted, That the remedies hereby
given shall be regarded as cumulative to the remedies now
given by law against railroad corporations, and this act shall
not be construed as repealing any statute giving such remedies.
"SEc. 25. Be it further enacted, That the provisions of this
act shall apply to and include all persons, firms, and companies, and to all associations of persons, whether incorporated
or otherwise, that shall operate a railroad in this State (street
railways excepted).
" SiEc. 26. Be it further enacted, That hereafter the election
of railroad commissioners shall be at such time, in such manner, and for such term as may be determined by the legislature.
"SEc. 27. Be it further enacted, That the schedules adopted
by the commission for charges for transportation of persons
and freight shall not be enforced against any railroad in this
State before the first day of May, A.D. 1884.
"SEc. 28. Be it further enacted, That this act shall take

effect and be in force from and after its passage."
On the 15th of March, 1884, the following supplemental act
was passed:

RAILROAD COMMISSION CASES.
Statement of Facts in Stone v. Parmers' Loan & Trus Co.
"SEc. 1. Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of
Mississippi, That the act entitled IAfi act to provide for the
regulation of freight and passenger rates on railroads in this
State, and to create a commission to supervise the same, and
for other purposes,' approved March 1I, 1884, shall not be so
construed as to authorize said commissioners to require bulletin boards to denote the delay of trains noted thereon, or to
require the erection of station-houses in any case where in
their judgment the public travel does not make it necessary,
nor shall said act be so construed as to require said commission to investigate or call upon any railroad company for rates
of charges in transportation or travel from any point outside
of this State to points Qutside of this State, or in any way interfere with such rates of charges."
On the third of February, 1848, the legislature of Alabama
passed an act to incorporate the Mobile and Ohio IRailroad
Company, with power "to locate, construct, and finally complete a single, double, or treble railroad or way from some
suitable point in the city of Mobile, in a westerly or northwesterly direction, to the west line of this State, towards the
mouth of the Ohio River, on such route as shall be deemed
most expedient; and to transport, take, and carry property
and persons upon said railroad or way by the power and force
of steam, of animals, or of any other mechanical or other
power, or any combination of them which said company may
choose to apply;" and "with permission to make any lawful
contract with any other railroad corporation in relation to the
business of said company, and also to make joint stock with
any other railroad corporation."
The immediate government and direction of the affairs of
the company were vested in a board of directors to be chosen
by the stockholders, and by § 7 it was provided : "That the
directors shall have full power to make and prescribe such bylaws, rules, and regulations as they shall deem needful and
proper, touching the disposition and management of the stock,
property, estate, and effects of said company, not contrary to
this charter or the laws of this State or of the United States;
the transfer of shares, the duties 'and conduct of their officers

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statemeht of Facts in Stone o. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co.

and servants, touching the election of and meeting of the
directors; and all matters whatsoever which may appertain to
.the concerns of said company."
Section 12 was as follows:
" SEc. i2.And be it further enacted, That it shall be lawful
for the company hereby incorporated from time to time to fix,
regulate, and receive the toll and charges by them to be re- ceived for transportation of persons or property on their railroad, or way aforesaid, hereby atborized to be constructed,
erected, built, or used, or upon any::part thereof."
On the 17th of February, 1848, th~.
legislature of Mississippi
passed "An Act to incorporate the Mobile and Ohio Railroad
'Company." This act, after reciting the incorporation of the
company in Alabama, and setting out that act of incorporation
in full, "the same as printed in Alabama," and also reciting
that Mississippi was "desirous to aid in accomplishing the
object of the said act," proceeded as follows:
"SEc. 1. Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of
Mississippi, That the Tailroad described in the above-recited
act be extended in the State of Mississippi, from the Alabama
line to the State of Tennessee in such direction and on such a
route as shall be deemed most expedient ; and that as to said
extension there is granted to the said Mobile and Ohio Railroad Company, when organized, the same rights, powers, and
privileges as are granted to it within the State of Alabama by
the same act, subject, however, to the same and similar conditions, restrictions, modications, and provisions as are in said
act above recit6d, contained, and set forth, excepting the provision contained in section 15 of said act; and the said act is
hereby concurred in and adopted within the State of Mississippi in reference to the said railroad as extended, and in reference, to the said Mobile and Ohio Railroad Company, with
the exception of that portion contained in section 15, as before
stated: Provided, That in case of persons absent or unknown,
whose lands may be condemned pursuant to sections 7, 8, and
9 of said recited act, the placing of the amount of the damages
assessed to the credit of the owner, in the hands of the State
treasurer, shall be taken as payment; and on such owner ap-

RAILROAD COMMISSION CASES.

317,.

Statement of Facts in Stone v. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co.

pearing or tendering satisfactory evidence of his claims thereto,
such damages shall be paid him by the treasurer on the warrant
of the auditor of public accounts."
The excepted section related to taxation, and as to this a
different provision was" made in Mississippi from that in the
Alabama charter. Power was also given the company to cross
the tracks of other railroads in Mississippi, and some slight
changes were made in the provision for depositing the amount
of damages assessed upon the condemnation of property for the
use of the company. Otherwise the charters of the company
in these two States were substantially identical.
On the same day, February 28, 1848, the legislature of Tennessee passed "An Act to incorporate the Mobile and Ohio
Railroad Company and the Tennessee Central Raiload Company." This act began as follows:
"Whereas it appears to this general assembly, from the
memorial of Jonathan Emanuel, president, and George N.
Stewart, Sidney Smith, Moses Waring, Charles Le Baron, and
S. Griffith Fisher, directors of the Mobile and Ohio Railroad
A~sociation, that a company has been organized at M obile, in
the State of Alabama, for the purpose of constructing a railroad from Mobile to the Tennessee River, and from thence to
a suitable point near the mouth of the Ohio River, for which
purpose said board of president and directors have applied to
this general assembly for the passage of such a law as may be
necessary to authorize the construction of said road through
the State of Tennessee:
. "And whereas it is deemed a matter of vital importance to
this State that a direct communication by railroad to the Gulf
of Mexico be established: Therefore,
"SEc. 1. Be it enacted by- the General Assembly of the
State of Tennessee, That the said Jonathan Emanuel, president, and the said George N. Stewart, Sidney Smith, Moses
Waring, Charles Le Baron, and S. Griffith Fisher, directors,
and their associates, who shall be the stockholders of said company, and their successors, under the name and style of 'The
Mobile and Ohio Railroad Company,' are hereby declared to
be a body corporate and politic under the laws of Tennessee,

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts in Stone v. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co.

with succession for five hundred years, and a common seal,
with capacity to have, receive, and enjoy, to them and their
successors, property and estate of whatsoever nature and
qulity, and the same to alienate, transfer,- and"dispose of, so
far as may be necessary to carry into effect the main object of
this charter, which is hereby declared to be the construction,
use, and maintenance of a railroad from Mobile, in the State
of Alabama, to some point on the Mississippi or Ohio River
near the mouth of the Ohio, passing through the State of Tennessee."
The remainder of the act related to the powers and privileges
of the company in Tennessee.
On the 26th of February, 1848, the General Assembly
of
Kentucky passed an act "to authorize the Mobile and Ohio
Railroad Company to extend their railroad from the south
boundary line of 'the State of Kentucky to the Mississippi or
Ohio Rivers," as follows:
"SEc. 1. Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the
Commonwealth of Kentucky, That the Mobile and Ohio Railroad Company, when formed under the act of the General As-.
sembly of the State of Alabama, approved February 3, 1848,
entitled 'An Act to incorporate the Mobile and Ohio Railroad
Coiiapany,'- shall be allowed the privilege of making any necessary reconnoissance and survey for the purpose of ascertaining
the most eligible route for extending the Mobile and Ohio
IRailroad to any point upon the Mississippi or Ohio Rivers in
-this State.
"1SEc. 2. Be it further enacted, That as soon as said route

and point shall be ascertained the said Mobile and Ohio Railroad Company shall be allowed the right of way for the extension and construction of their said railroad from the Tennessee
line to the Mississippi or Ohio Rivers, and that they shall be
entitled to all the privileges, rights, and immunities, and subject to all such restrictions, as are granted, made, and prescribed for the benefit; government, and direction of said Mobile and Ohio Railroad Company within the State of Alabama
by the act above described."
On the 20th of September, 1850, Congress passed "1An Act

RAILROAD C03fMISSION GASES.
Argument for Appellee in Stone o. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co.

granting the right of way and making a grant of land to the
States of Illinois, Mississippi, and Alabama in aid of the construction of a railroad from Chicago to Mobile."
This act provided "that the said railroad and branches shall
be and remain a public highway for the use of the government
of the United States free from toll or other charges," and
"that the United States mail shall at all times be transported
on the said railroad, under the direction of the Post Office
Department, at such price as the Congress may by law direct."
These lands were transferred by Alabama and Mississippi to
the Mobile and Ohio Railroad Company in 1850 and 1851, and
in 1859 Congress ratified and confirmed the grants and extended the time for building the road.
The case was heard on demurrer to the bill. The Circuit
Court rendered a decree allowing the injunction, and from that
decree this appeal was taken.
Yr. John, TV.

. 1fatson for appellants.

-Mr.John A. Caml)bell and Ir..
E L. Russell for appellee.The railroad of the Mobile & Ohio Railroad Co. was com•pleted in 1848 conformably to charters granted by Alabama,
Mississippi, Tennessee, and Kentucky. Among the franchises
granted to it was the power to fix, regulate, and collect tolls
and charges for the transportation of persons and property on
its road. The grant of this franchise vested it as a legal right,
not subject to legislative repeal or regulation. London v.
.ieron8, 2 Moore P. C. 102, 113; Gard v. Callord, 6 M. & S.
70 ; Attorney Generalv. Railroad Co., 35 Wise. 586 ; 1 Savigny
des Obligations, 427; Stamford v. Sali8bury, 1 Cromp. & Jerv.
400; Jnkyns v. Harney, 5 Tyrwh. 871. The inability of Mississippi to impair contracts or obligations by legislative enactment or judicial decision, and its inability to diminish privileges
contained in charters granted by it have already been declared
by this court. Ptanters'Bank v. Sharp, 6 How. 301; Bacon
v. Robertson, 18 How. 480; Groves v. Saughter, 15 Pet. 449.
See also Dodge v. WVoolsey, 18 How. 341, 347. The nature of
the legislative contract made with the corporation is described

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Argument for Appellee in Stone v. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co.

by the Supreme Court of Massachusetts in Comis.ioners v.
_Farmer' Bank, 21 Pick. 542. 'Shaw, C. J., says: "It is clearly
ai stipulation on the part of the government that the corporation shall be and continue a corporation for an indefinite time,
or for a time limited by the act unless sooner forfeited for
some cause recognized by existing laws as a cause for forfeiture: that their constitution, organization, and mode of action,
as prescribed by the charter, shall not be annulled or changed
,by the legislature; that members shall not be added or removed; that modes of election, expulsion or suspension of
members shall not be altered; 'and that whatever belongs to
their organic constitution and action as bodies politic shall continue and be determined by the terms of the charter. In addition to which the powers specially granted to them are not to
be withdrawn or diminished."
The statute passed by the legislature changes fundamentally
the mode prescribed by the charter for fixing rates of transpor.
tation. The extract. from Chief Justice Shaw shows clearly
that this is an offence against the Constitution. See also
Chlicago, Burlinto & Quincy Railroad Co. v. Chicago, 94
U. S. 155; Railroad Co. v. -Maryland, 21 Wall. 456, 470;
AXobile & Ohio Railroad Co. v. Noseley, 52 Mississippi, 127;
Sloan v. Paciftc Railroad Co., 61 Missouri,' 22; Perrine v.
C/lesapeake & Delaware Canal Co., 9 How. 172, 184; .faryland v. Baltimore & Ohio Railroad Co., 3 How. 534; Olcott v.
Supervisors, 16 Wall. 678, 694; Wimington, Railroadv. Reid,
13 Wall. 264.
If it be said that the charter conferred upon the
company
only a permissory and revocable license, we reply that the
charter was given as determining the conditions of a contract
for long and continuous service of public utility, and that the
power to fix and collect rates was essential to its performance.
The grant to do so was a commission to the company, for a
valuable consideration, to fix, regulate, and collect the -tolls
and charges. The existeifce of the company, its mode .of
organization and proceeding, and its franchises and modes of
exercising them, all spring from this legislative act. It describes an agreement on the part of the company to construct

RAILROAD COMMISSION CASES.
Argument for Appellee in Stone v. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co.

the road within the time designated, sufficient for the transportation of persons and property. To enable it to perform this,
the power to lay tolls and collect charges was indispensable, and
inevitably followed. The twelfth section specifies distinctly,
what would have been inferred from the incorporation of the
company, the disclosure of the objects and purposes of the act,
and the concession of all of the powers, privileges, and immunities necessary and which shall become thereafter necessary
for the purpose.
The adoption of this charter resulted from the concurrent
act of four States of this Union. The object-of the act and
purposes to be accomplished by it were common to those
States, and the instrument for them was selected and commissioned by all. The statute of Mississippi is designed to
alter, and to disturb and derange the plan adopted by the four
States for the administration of the affairs of the company,
and to enable Mississippi to dictate the mode of operation of
the company. The result of the co-operative adoption of the
company in these four States, with the same powers of administration for transportation through each and all of the States,
is to establish a community of right and interest which neither
of them can separately and partially derange or transform.
Brocket v. 0. & P. Railroad Co., 1- Penn. St. 244; Cleveland R. Co. v. Speer, 56 Penn. St. 325; County v. Railroad
Co., 51 Penn. St. 228; P. & -f. 1?. Co. v. Ataryland, 10 How.
376; Sprague v. IHarfford, 5 R. I. 233; The State v. Railroad Co., 18 Maryland, 193; .ATerrick -v. 'an Santvoord, 34
N. Y. 213; Gloucester Ferry Co. v. Pennsyivania,114 U. S.
196; Brown, V. Houston, 114 U. S. 622.
The franchises thus conferred upon the company were property, and as such protected by the Constitution of the United
States against legislative spoliation. The constitutions of all
the States in which the franchises are to be executed also recognize the principle of property, and the existence of the right
of .private ownership, and that this principle and right are not
to be invaded by the State legislature. It is notorious that
organizations exist to subvert this ancient-and stable principle.
The legislature of Mississippi by its legislation lends itself to
VOL. CXVI-21

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Argument for Appellee in Stone v. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co.

these attacks upon the social structure. The manifest intent
of the statute is to obtain control over railroad transportation
through the power of fixing rates.
In the new schemes for readjusting the relations of society,
the importance of railroads is acknowledged by socialist writers,
and their appropriation provided for. iNot only land but all
instruments of production are to be made the collective property of all, to be worked by associated labor, for the common
benefit. This can never be attained. Individual effort is
necessary for the creation of property. The right of free competition to buy, to sell, to dispose of property, is essential to our
civilization and habits of social life: The law imposes few
limits on it except those required for the protection of good
morals. Out of this freedom spring contracts and the security
afforded to property and personal liberty. We may conceive
of a state of society where it may be proper to endow a government with power to dispose of persons and property at its will.
But no such state of society exists in the United States.
We object to this legislation, because of the violation of a
contract made by the State, in changing the conditions of a
charter conferred by herself to secure the employment of capital and industry in the completion of a work which the State
had decided to be of public utility. Also because of a want
of power of the State to alter a contract where other parties
jointly concerned-were interested and concerned, and because
of the invasion of rights of property. The documentary evidence of title shown by this company, and the confessions of
the demurrer show a possession for twenty-five years of property in land, erections and buildings on the land, and employment of both, with incontestable authority to do the work the
company was appointed to do. in the manner in which it has
been done.
The statute of Mississippi affirms an authority to direct the
company in the matter of its tolls and charges, and to fix and
to regulate them in respect to every item and detail of its business, and prescribes not only that the items of charge shall be
determined, but also that the value of the property as assessed
or determined by the commissioners shall be the basis on which

RAILROAD COMMISSION CASES.
Argument for Appelle-, in Stone v. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co.

the apportionment of the freights and fares shall be estimated:
all of which violates the contract between the company and
the State, and deprives the company of a property which it
has earned by constructing the road.
We further contend that the -1ississippi act is void for want
of sufficient certainty. [Counsel andlyzed the act in order to
show that such would be the result.]
And it is further insisted that this act is in direct conflict
with, and violates the Constitution of Mississippi..
Article 1, section 12, of the Constitution of the State of Mississippi, provides, that "the right of trial by jury shall remain
inviolate," article 3, sections 1 and 2, of that Constitution provides: "That the powers of the government of the State of
Mississippi shall be divided into three distinct departments, and
each of them confided to a separate magistracy, to wit: those'
which are legislaiive, to one; those which are judicial, to another; and those which are executive, to another." "No person or collection of persons, being one of these departments,
*hall exercise any power properly belonging to either of the
others, except in-instances hereinafter expressly directed or per_
mitted." And section 2 of article 1, which provides that "No
person shall be deprived of life, liberty or property, without due
process of law."
The provision of section 19 of the act, which says, that the
determination of the commission "shall be received by all the
courts of this State asprimfacie evidence in any suit brought
under the authority of the act," is a direct violation of this
Constitution.
X&. P. Hamilton also filed a brief for appellee, further contending that inasmuch as the road was one continuous property
running through four States, it was a highway for commerce
within the jurisdiction of Congress; and inasmuch as the act of
Mississippi assumed to regulate the rates upon commerce external to the State and passing. through it, as well as upon domestic commerce within the State, it infringed that clause of the
Constitution which confers upon Congress the power to regulate commerce among the several States: citing Pensacola

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court in Stone v. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co.

Telegraph Co. v. W'e8tern 7niorn "Telegrapl& Co., 96 U. S. 1;
The Clinton Bridge, 1 Woolworth, 150; .bler v. 37ew York,
109 U. S. 385; Gilman v. Pilalelphia,3 Wall. 713: Pennsylvania v. TJ7 eeling Bridge Co., 18 How. 421, 430; Escanaba
Co. v. Chicago, 10 TU. S. 678; 3fobile v. Zrmnall, 102 U. S.
691; Gibbon&v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1; Railroad Co. v. Hu8en,
95 U. S. 465, 470; State Freight Tax Cae, 15 Wall. 232;
Brown v. 3faryland, 12 Wheat. 419, 448; Cooley v. TWardens
of Philadephia, 12 How. 299; Walton v. XJ'i88ouri, 91 U. S.
275; Eciser v. Illinois Central Railroad Co., 18 Fed. IRep.
151; PacifleStemship Co. v. RailroadCommissioners,18 Fed.
Rep. 10; Sinnot v. -Davenport,227, 242; Pek v. Chicago &
1'orthwestern Railway Co., 94 U. S. 164, 177; Head Afoney
Cases, 112 U. S. 580; Cardwell v. American Bridge Co., 113
U. S. 205.
MRs. Cu IE JusT=ic Wxrru delivered the opinion of the court.
After stating the facts in the language above reported, he
continued:
The argument in support of the decree below is:
1. That the statute .under which the commissioners are to
act impairs the obligation of the charter contract of the Mobile
and Ohio Railroad Company;
2. That it is, so far as that company is concerned, a regulation of commerc- among the States;
3. That it denies the company the equal protection of the
laws; and deprives it of its property without due process of
law;
4. That it confers both legislative and judicial powers on the
commission, and is thus repugnant to the Constitution of Mississippi; and
5. That it is void on its face by reason of its inconsistencies
and uncertainties.
These several positions will be considered in their order.
1. The provisions of the charter on which the claim of contract rests are found in §§ 1, 7, and 12, as follows:
"So. 1. And the said company is hereby authorized and
empowered

.

.. .

to transport, take, and carry property

RAILROAD COMMISSION CASES.
Opinion of the Coart in Stone v. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co.

and persons upon said railroad or way by the power and force
of steam, of animals, or of any other mechanical or other
power, or any combination of them which the company may
choose to apply."
"SEC. 7. That the directors shall have full power to make
and prescribe such by-laws, rules, and regulations as they shall
deem needful and proper touching the disposition and management of the stock, property, estate, and effects of said company, not contrary to this charter or the laws of this State or
of the United States; the transfer of shares, the duties and
conduct of their officers and servants, touching the election of,
and meeting of the directors: and all matters whatsoever
which may appertain to the concerns of said company."
"SEc. 12. That it shall be lawful for the company hereby
incorporated from time to time to fix, regulate, and receive the
toll and charges by them to be received for transportation of
persons or property on their railroad, or way aforesaid, hereby
authorized to be constructed, erected, built, or used, or upon
any part thereof."
From this it is claimed that the State granted to the company, for the full term of its corporate existence, that is to say,
forever, the right of managing its own affairs and regulating
its charges for the transportation of persons and property, free
of all legislative control.
It is now settled in this court that a State has power to limit
the amount of charges by railroad companies for the transportation of persons and property within its own jurisdiction,
unless restrained by some contract in the charter, or unless
what is done amounts to a red 1. "ion of foreign or inter-state
commerce. Railroat 0). v. Mutryland, 21 Wall. 456 07hicag7,
Burlington 6 Quincy Railroad Co. v. Iowa, 941 U. S. 155;
Peik v. Chicago an( Aorthweatern%
Railway Co., 94 U. S. 164;
Minona and St. Peter Railroad Co. v. Blake, 94 U. S. 180;
Ruggle8 v. Illinoi8, 108 U. S. 526, 531. This power of regulation is a power of government, continuing in its nature, and if
it can be bargained away at all it can only be by words of
positive grant, or something which is in law equivalent. if
there is reasonable doubt, it must be resolved in favor of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court in Stone v. Farmers' Loan & Trus, Co.

existence of the power. In the words of Chief Justice Marshall,
in Providence Bank v. Billings, 4 Pet. 514, 561, "its abandon•ment ought not to be presumed in a case in which the
deliberate purpose of the State to abandon it does not appear."
This rule is elementary, and the cases in our reports
where it has been considered and applied are numerous. Thus,
in Providence Bank v. Billings,it was held that the incorporation of a bank without any special provision for taxation did
not imply a contract on the part of a State not to tax at all. In
Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge, 11 Pet. 419, 548, the
court said this rule of construction was not confined to the
taxing power, and accordingly it held that the charter of a
toll-bridge company did not imply a contract not to allow the
building of another bridge in the immediate vicinity which
would materially interfere with its revenues. In delivering the
opinion of the court, Chief Justice Taney used this language:
"This act of incorporation is in the usual form, and the privileges such as are commonly given to corporations of that kind.
It confers on them the ordinary faculties of a corporation for
the purpose of building the bridge; and establishes certain
rates of toll which the company are authorized to take; that is
the whole grant. There is no exclusive privilege given to them
over the waters of Charles River above or below their bridge;
no right to erect another bridge themselves nor to prevent
other persons from erecting one; no engagement from the
State that another shall not be erected; and no undertaking not to sanction competition, nor to make improvements
that may diminish the amount of its income." In Xinot v.
hladeMpkia, WilHington & Baltmore Railroad Co., known
as the -DelawareRailroad Tax Case, 18 Wall. 206,.226, it was
held that a provision in the charter that the railroad company
"should pay annually into the treasury of the State a tax of
one-quarter of one per cent. on its capital stock of four hundred
thousand dollars," without any words "indicating the intent of
the legislature that no further or different tax should be subsequently levied," was not sufficient to show a contract binding
the State not to make such a levy, the court remarking that
"the surrender, when claimed, must be shown by clear, unam-

RAILROAD COMMISSION CASES.
Opinion of the Court in Stone n. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co.

biguous language, which'will admit of no reasonable construction consistent with the reservation of the power." So, in
Bailey v.Jfagwire, 22 Wall. 215, 228, it was held that a clause
in a charter which subjected a corporation "to taxation at the
rate assessed by the State on other real or personal property of
like value," did not relieve the company from taxation for other
than State purposes. And here the court said: "Silence on
such a subject," that is to say, taxation for other purposes,
"cannot be construed as a waiver of the right of the State in
this regard. There must be something said which is broad
enough to show clearly that the legislature intended to relieve
the corporation from a part of the burdens borne by other real
and personal property." Inw.Fertilizing Co. v. Hyde Park¢, 97
U. S. 659, it appeared that a company had been incorporated
with authority to establish and maintain, for fifty years, "chemical and other works at the place designated . . . for the

purpose of manufacturing and converting dead animals and
other animal matter into an agricultural fertilizer, or into
other chemical products, by means of chemical or other
processes;" but this court held that the State was'not thereby
prevented from causing the works to be abated in case they
should, within the time of the charter, become a public nuisance
because of the growth of population in the neighborhood, and
among the reasons assigned was the absence from the charter
of any express exemption of the company from the operation
of the powers of the State applicable to its existing condition
for the time being. In Newton v. Commisaioners, 100 U. S.
518, 562, the seat of justice of a county had been fixed at Canfield, but the statute by which this was done provided "That
before the seat of justice shall be considered permanently
established at Canfield," the citizens should donate a lot and
make certain provisions for the erection of public buildings
thereon. The citizens complied with all the requirements of
the law, and the seat of justice remained undisturbed at the
place where it had been "permanently established" until 1874,
when a law was passed for its removal to another town. The
citizens of Canfield then caused a bill to be filed for an injunction restraining the county commissioners from effecting the

328

OCTOBER TER]I, 1885.
Opinion of the Court in Stone v. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co.

removal, on the ground that the original act, and what was
done under it, constituted an executed contract on the part of
the State that the seat of justice should remain forever at Canfield, and the later act impaired the obligation of that contract; but this court held otherwise, saying, among other
*things, "If the legislature had intended to assume an obligation
that it should be kept there in perpetuity, it is to be presumed
it would have said so. We cannot--certainly not in this case
-interpolate into the statute a thing so important which it
does not contain."
Th6 cases in -which it has been held that a contract was entered into are -equally instructive. Thus in Gordon v. The Appeal Tax Court, 3 How. 133, the statute was: "That upon any
of the banks in this State complying with the conditions of
this act, the faith of the State is hereby pledged not to impose
any future tax or bonus on the said banks during the continuance of their charters under this act." In State Bank of Oldo
v. K5noop, 16 How. 369, the provision was that each bank organized under the act should semi-annually, on the days designated for declaring dividends, set off to the State six per cent.
on the profits deducting therefrom the expenses and a~certained
losses for the six months next preceding, which sum or amount
so set off shall be in lieu of all taxes to which the company, or
the stockholders therein, would otherwise be subject, and from
the judgment that this was a contract of exemption from any
further exercise off'the power of taxation three justices dissented. In Bridge Proprietorsv. Hoboken Co., 1 Wall. 116,
the words of exclusion were, "that it shodld not be lawful for
.any person or-persons whatsoever to 'erect, or cause to be
erected [within certain specified limits], any other bridge or
bridges over or across the said river." In Home of theFriendless v. Rouse, 8 Wall. 430, the provision was that all property

of said corporation shall be exempt from taxation, and that a
certain existing, statute to tne effect that every act of incorporation should be subject to alteration and repeal "shall not
apply to this corporation."
. Such being the rule, and such its practical operation, we return to the special provisions of the charter on which this case

RAILROAD COMMISSION CASES.
Opinion of the Court in Stone r. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co.

depends, and find, first, the authority given the corporation to
carry persons and property. This of itself implies authority to
charge a .reasonable sum for the carriage. In this way- the
corporation was put in the same position a fiatural person would
occupy if engaged in the same or like business. Its rights and
its privileges in its business of transportation are just what
those of a natural person would be under like circumstances;,
no more, no less. The natural person would be subject to legislative control as to the amount of his charges. So must the
corporation be. That was decided in Railroad Co. -v.f.Mryland; Chicago, Burlington & Quincy Railroad Co. v. iowa;
Peik v. Chicago & Northwe.tern Railway Co.; IMnona &6St.
Peter Railroad Co. v. Blake; and Ruggles v. Illinois; all
cited above.
:Next follows the power of the directors to make by-laws,
rules, and regulations for the management of the affairs of the
company, but it is expressly provided that su'ch by-laws, rules,
and regulations shall not be contrary to the laws of the State.
This we held in R-uggle8 v. Tliinoi included laws in force when
the charter was granted, and those which came into operation
afterwards as well. It is true that the clause which thus limits
the power of the directors is found in the middle of the sentence
which confers the power, but it clearly was intended tQ refer to
evprything that might be done in this way "touching
-all matters whatsoever that may appertain to the concerns of
said company." There is nothing here, therefore, which in any
manner implies a contract on the part of the State to exempt
the company from the operation of laws enacted within the
scope of legislative power for the regulation of the business in
which it is authorized to engage.
The case turns consequently on § 12, which is, "that it shall
be lawful for the company . . . from time to time to fix,
regulate, and receive the toll and charges by them to be received
for transportation," &c. This would have been implied from
the rest of the charter if there had been no such provision, and
it is argued that, unless it had been intended to surrender the
power of control over fares and freights, this section would not
have been inserted. The argument concedes that the power of

330

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court in Stone v. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co.

the company under this section is limited by the rule of the
common law which requires all charges to be reasonable. In
.Munn v. Illinois, 94 LT. S. 113, and (icago, Burlington &

Quincy Railroad Co. v. Iowa, above cited, this court decided
that, as to natural persons and corporations subject to legislative control, the State could, in cases like this, fix a maximum
beyond which any charge would be unreasonable, and that such
maximum when fixed would be binding on the courts in their
adjudications, as well as on the parties in their dealings. The
claim now is that by § 12.the State has surrendered the power
to fix a maximum for this company, and has declared that the
courts shall be left to determine what is reasonable, free of all
legislative control. We see no evidence of any such intention.
granted to fix reasonable charges, but what shall be
Power -is
deemed reasonable in law is nowhere indicated. There is no
rate specified, nor any limit set. Nothing whatever is said of
the way in which the question of reasonableness is to be settled.
All that is left as it was. Consequently, all the power which
the State had in the matter before the charter it retained afterwards. The power to charge being coupled with the condition
that the charge shall be reasonable, the Statte is left free to act
on the subject of reasonableness within the limits of its general
authority as circumstances may require. The right to fix reasonable charges has been granted, but the power of declaring
what shall be deemed reasonable has not been surrendered. If
there had been an intention of surrendering this power, it would
have been easy to say so. Not having said so, the conclusive
presumption is there was no such infention.
This is not in conflict with the judgment of the Supreme
Court of Mississippi in Railroad Comrnmissio v. Yazoo & .Aississi2pi Railroad Co., in which it was decided that the power
had been surrendered in favor of that company because in that
charter a maximum of rates-was fixed. In the opinion, a copy
of which has been furnished us in advance of its publication in
the regular series of reports, the court says distinctly that "a
grant in general terms of authority to fix rates is not a renunciation of the right of legislative control so as to secure reasonable rates. Such a grant evinces merely a purpose to confer

RAILROAD COMMISSION CASES.
Opinion of the Court in Stone v. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co.

power to exact compensation, which shall be just and reasonable. It is only where there is an unmistakable manifestation
of a purpose to place the unrestricted right in the corporation
to determine rates of compensation that the power of the legislature afterwards to interfere can be denied." In Railroad
Commiisioa v. NVatchez, Jacksor & Columbia Railroad Clo.
it was held by the same court that the charter authority for the
company "from time to time to fix, regulate, and receive tolls
and charges by them to be received for transportation of pergons and property," did not amount to a contract of exemption,
and the commission was allowed to proceed under the law.
From what has thus been said, it is not to be inferred that
this power of limitation or regulation is itself without limit.
"This power to r&gulate is not a power to destroy, and limitation is not the equivalent of ponfiscation. Under pretence of
regulating fares and freights, the State cannot require a railroad corporation to carry persons or property without reward;
neither can it do that which in law amounts to a taking of private property for public use without just compensation, or without due process ot law. What would have this effect we need
not now say, because no tariff has yet been fixed by the commission, and the statute of Mississippi expressly provides "that
in all trials of cases brought for a violation of any tariff of
charges, as fixed by the commission, it may be shown, in defeaice that such tariff so fixed is unjust."
It is also claimed that the charter contains a contract binding the State to allow the company, at all times and in all ways,
to manage its own affairs through its own board of directors,
and that the obligation of this contract will be impaired if the
provisions of the statute are enforced by the commissioners.
As has already been seen, the power of the directors is coupled
with a condition that their management shall be in accordance
with the laws of the State. This undoubtedly means with such
laws as may be constitutionally enacted touching the administration of the affairs of the company. * The present statute requires the company, 1, to furnish the commissioners with copies
of its tariffs for all kinds of transportation; 2, to post in some
conspicuous place at each of its depots the tariff approved by

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court in Stone v. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co.

the commissioners, with the certificate of approval attached;
3, to conform to the tariff as approved without discrimination
in favor of or against persons or localities; 4, to furnish the
commissioners with all the information they require relative to
the management of its hne, and particularly with copies of all
leases, contracts, and agreements for transportation with express, sleeping-car, or other companies to which they are parties; 5, to report all accidents within the limits of the State
attended with any serious personal injury; 6, to make quarterly
returns of its business to the commissioners, which returns shall
embrace all the receipts and expenditures of its railroad; 7,to
provide at least one comfortable and suitable reception room at
each depot for the use and accommodation of persons desiring
or awaiting transportation over its road; and 8,to keep at all
times in such reception rooms a bulletin board which shall show
the time of the arrival and departure of trains, and when any
*passenger or other train transporting passengers is delayed, notice of the extent of the delay and the probable time of arrival
as near as it can be ascertained.
The second and third of these requirements relate only to the
duty of the company to keep its charges within the limit of
the tariff approved by the commissioners without discrimination in favor of or against persons or localities. The first, fourth,
and sixth are clearly intended as a means of furnishing the
commissioners with the information necessary to enable them
to act understandingly in fixing the tariff. Whether under
these provisions the company can be required to make a report
of or give information about its business 6utside of Mississippi
is a question we do not now undertake to decide. The second,
fifth, seventh, and eighth are nothing more than reasonable
police regulations for the comfort, convenience, and safety of
those travelling upon the road or doing business with the company in the State.
The commissioners have power, 1, to approve, and if need be
to fix the tariff of 'charges for transportation, both of persons
and property, by which the company must be governed, and to
2,
exercise a watchful and careful supervision over such tariff;
to notify the company of the times and places when and where

RAILROAD COMMISSION CASES.
Opinion of the Court in Stone v. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co.

the propriety of a change in: existing tariffs will be considered;
3, to entertain complaints made by any person against a tariff
which has.been approved, on the ground that the same is in
any respect for more than a just compensation, or that the
charges amount to or operate so as to effect unjust discrimination, and, after due notice to the company and proper inquiry
had, to make any changes that may be deemed proper; 4, to
repair to the scene of an accident within the State attended with
serious personal injury, and inquire into the facts and circumstances thereof, to be recorded in the minutes of their proceedings and embraced in the annual report they are required to
make to the governor for transmission to the legislature; 5,
to inspect the depots of all railroads operated in the State and
to see that comfortable and suitable reception rooms are provided; and 6, to institute all necessary suits for the recovery of
the penalties prescribed by the statute for a violation of its provisions. The first three of these relate entirely to proceedings
for fixing charges and supervising the tariff, and the rest, like
the correlative requirements of the company, are mere police
regulations -which the commissioners are to enforce. All this
comes clearly within the supervising power of the State in the
administration of the affairs of its domestic corporations.
We conclude, therefore, that the charter of the company
contains no contract the obligation of which is in any way-impaired by the statute under which the commissioners are to
act.

2. There can be flo doubt that each of the States through
which the Mobile and Ohio Railroad passes incorporated the
company, for the purpose of securing the construction of a
railroad from Mobile; through Alabama, Mississippi, Tennessee,
and Eentucky, to some point near the mouth of the Ohio
River, where it would connect with another railroad to the
lakes, and thus form a continuous line of inter-state communication between the Gulf of Mexico in the south, and the Great
Lakes in the north. It is equally certain that Congress aided
in the construction of parts of this line of road so as to establish such a route of travel and transportation. But it is none
the less true that the corporation created by each State is for

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court in Stone v. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co.

W11 the purposes of local government a domestic corporation,
and that its railroad within the State is a matter of domestic
concern. Etverey person, every corporation, everything within
the territorial limits of a State is while there subject to the constitutional authority of the State government. Clearly under.
this rule Mississippi may govern this corporation, as it 4oes all
domestic corporations, in respect to every act and everything
within the State which is the lawful subject of State government.: It may, beyond.' all question, by the settled rule of decision in this court, regulate freights and fares for business
done exclusively within the State, and it would seem to be a
matter of domestic concern to prevent the company from discriminating against persons and places in iMississippi. So it
may make all needful regulations of a police character for the
government of the company while operating its road in that
jurisdiction. In this way it may certainly require the company
to fence so much of its road as lies within the State to stop
its trains at railroad crossings; to slacken speed while running
in a crowded thoroughfare; to post its tariffs and time-tables
at proper places, and other things of a kindred character affecting the comfort, the convenience, or the safety of those who are entitled to look to the State for protection against the
wrongful or negligent conduct of others. This company is not
relieved entirely from State regulation or State control in Mississippi simply. because it- has been incorporated byf and is
carrying on business in, the other States7 through which its
road runs. While in Mississippi it can be governed by Mississippi
in respect to all things which have not,, been placed by the
Constitution of the United States'within the .exclusive jurisdiction of Congress, that is to say, using the language of this
court in Cardwell %.Bridge C,., 113 U.- S.205, 210, "when
the subjects on which it isexerted are national in their charqcter, and admit and require uniformity of regulations affecting
Like all the States:" Under this rule nothing can be done by
the.government of. Mississippi which will operate as a burden
on the inter-state business of the company or impair the usefulness of its facilities for inter-state traffic. It'is not enough to
prevent the: State from adting that the road in Mississippi is

RAILROAD COMMISSION CASES.
Opinion of the Court in Stone v. 'Farmers' Loan & Trust Co.

used in aid of inter-state commerce.

Legislation of this kind

to be unconstitutiQnal must be such as will necessarily amount
to or operate as -a regulatioi of. business without the State as
well as within.
The commis§ion is in-express"terms prohibited by the act of
March, 15, 1884, from interfering with the charges of the company for the transportation of persons or property through
Mississippi from one State to another. The statute makes no
mention of person or property taken up without the State and
delivered within, nor of such as may be taken up within and
carried without. As to this, the only limit on the power of the
commissioners is the constitutional authority of the State over
the subject. Precisely all that may be done, or all that may
not be done, it is not easy to say in advance. The line between
the exclusive power of Congress, and the general powers of the
State in this particular, is not everywhere distinctly marked,
and it is always easier to determinewhen a case arises -whether
it falls on one side or the other, than to settle in advance the
boundary, so that it Inay be. -in all respects strictly accurate.
As yet the commissioners have done nothing. There is, certainly, much they may do in regulating charges within the
State, which will not be in conflict with the Constitution of the
'United States. It is to be presumed they will always act
within the limits of their constitutional authority. It will be
time enough to consider what may be done to prevent it when
they attempt to go beyond.
3. General statutes regulating the use of railroads in a State,
or fixing maximum rates of charges for transportation, when
not forbidden by charter contracts, do not necessarily deprive
the corporation owning or operating a railroad within the State
of its property without due process of law, within the meaning
of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the
United States, nor take away from the corporation the equal
protection of the laws.
Iunn v. Illinois, 94 U. S. 113, 131,
135; .Railroad Oo. v. Richmond, 96 U. S. 521, 529; Spring
'alley .TTater Mork's v. Schottler, 110 U. S. 347, 354. The
great purpose of the statute now under consideration is to fix a
maximum of charges, and to regulate in some matters of a police

336

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court in Stone v. Farmers' Loan &Trust Co.

nature the use of railroads in the State. In its general scope
it is constitutional, and it applies .equally to all persons or corporations owning or operating railroads in the State. No preference is given to one over another, but all are treated ,alike.
Whetherin some of its details the statute may be defective or
invalid we do not deem it necessary to inqi§.e, for this suit is
brought to prevent the commissioners from giving it any effect
whatever as against this company.
4. The Supreme Court of Mississippi has decided in the dases
-of Railroad Comm ission v. Yazoo & Xissis~sipvi Railroad
Company, and Railroad Commission v. .Yatchez, Jackson &
Columbia Railroad Company, not yet officially reported, that
the statute is not repugnant to the Constitution of the State
in that it creates a commission and charges it with the duty
of supervising railroads." To this we agree, and that is all
that need be decided in this case. As was said by the Supreme
Court of Mississippi, in the case first referred to above : "Many
questions may arise under it not necessary to be disposed
of now, and we leave them for consideration when presented."
5. It is difficult to understand precisely on what ground Ve
are expected to decide that this statute is so inconsistent and
uncertain as to render it absolutely void on its face. The
statute of Tennessee which was under consideration in Louisville & NAashville Railroad Company v. Railroad Commi88ion of Tennessee, 19 Fed. Rep. 679, is materially different from
this in many respects. That case was decided before this
statute was passed, and it is not at all unlikely that the legislature of Mississippi made use of the decision in framing their
bill so as to avoid some, if not all, of the objections which, in
the opinion of the court, were fatal to what had been done in
Tennessee. The argument on this branch of the controversy
contains much that might have been useful if addressed to the
legislature while considering the bill before its final enactment,
but we find nothing in it to sh6w that the statute as it now
stands is altogether void and inoperative. When the commission has acted and proceedings are had to enforce what it has
done, questions may arise as to the validity of some of the vari-

RAILROAD COMMISSION CASES.

337

Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, J., in Stone v. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co.

ous provisions which will be worthy of consideration, but we
are unable to say that, as a whole, the statute is invalid.
The decree of the Circuit Court i3 rever8ed and the cause
remanded, with instrution8 to diamis the bill.
Mn. JUSTICE HAnn&w, dissenting.*
This case and the case against the Illinois Central Railroad
Company, argued with it, are unlike that of Chicago, Burlington & Quincy Railroad Co. v. Iowa, 94: U. S. 155, where the
charter of the company was granted expressly subject to such
rules and regulations as the legislature might, from time to
time, enact and provide; or of Peik v. Chicago & Northwestern Railwqzy Co., 94 U. S. 164, 175, where, at the time the railroad charter was granted, the State Constitution provided that
all charters of corporations "may be altered or repealed by the
legislature at any time after their passage;" or of iona &
St. Peter Railroad,Co. v. BlakIe, 94 U. S. 180, where the charter
prescribed no limit upon the legislative power to fix rates for
transportation, and conferred no express power upon the company to fix or establish such rates as it might deem proper.
Different huestions from any of these are now presented.
The Mobile and Ohio Railroad Company was chartered on
the 3d of February, 1848, by the State of Alabama, with authority to construct and maintain a railroad from the City of
Mobile to the west line of that State; towards the mouth of theOhio River, and to transport and carry property and persons,
under such regulations, as to time and manner, as its board of
directors might establish. It was also invested by its charter
with power, "from time to time, to flx, regulate, and receive
the toll and charges by them to be received for the transportation of persons and property over the line of railroad hereby
authorized to be constructed and completed, or any part thereof." § 12. The legislature of Mississippi, in the same month,
appoved of the Alabama charter-except in certain particulars
not important to be here mentioned-and consented to the
* This dissent applies also to the judgment and opinion of the court inStone v. Illinois CentralRailroad Co., post, 347.

VOL CXNv-22

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Dissenting Opinion : Harlan, J., in Stone v. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co.

extension of the road through that State to the Tennessee line;
conferring upon the company, when organized, "the same
.ights, powers, and privileges" that were granted to it within
the State of Alabama. Like consent was given, and similar
action was taken, by the States of Tennessee aid Kentucky,
with reference to the proposed road within their respective
limits.
The Illinois Central Railroad Company is the lessee of the
Chicago, St. Louis and New Orleans Railroad Company.- By
an act of the legislature of Mississippi, of April 18, 1873, the
New Orleans, Jackson and Great Northern Railroad Company,
owning a line of railroad from New Orleans, Louisiana, to
Canton, Mississippi, and the Mississippi Central Railroad Company, owning a line running from the latter place northward
to Jackson, Tennessee, were authorized to consolidate into one
corporation; the latter to have all the rights, powers, privileges, immunities, and franchises in perpetuity, then conferred
upon the constituent companies, or upon either of them. Such
consolidation took place under the name of the Chicago, St.
Louis and New Orleans Railroad Company, and by an act of
February 28, 1878, was ratified. Bat the same act provided
that it should be of no force or effect until the debt due the
State from the Mississippi Central Railroad-Company was adjusted by the Chicago, St. Louis and New Orleans Railroad
Company. Subsequently, by an act approved March 1, 1882,
the payment of this debt by the latter company to the State
was acknowledged, and the Chicago, St. Louis and New Orleans Railroad Company was declared to be a corporation of
Mississippi, "with perpetual succession, and, as such, is invested
with all the rights, powers, privileges, liberties, and franchises
conferred by the act to which this is a supplement, and e8peof section 10 of an act
cially the rights and powers ....
entitled 'An Act to incorporate the Mississippi Railroad Company,' approved March 10, 1852."
The 10th section of the act last named, to the rights and
powers conferred by which particular reference was made, is
in these words: "That the president and directors be and they
are hereby authorized to adopt and establish such a tariff of

RAILROAD COMMISSION CASES.
Dissenting Opinion : Harlan, J., in Stone P. Farmers' Loan & Trust Q20.

charges for the transportation of persons and property as they
may think- proper, and the same to alter and change at

pleasure."
The amount paid to the State by the Chicago, St. Louis and
New Orleans Railroad Company, on account of the debt due
from the Mississippi Central Railroad Company was $158,978.82.
It is thus seen that the Mobile and Ohio Railroad Company,
and the Chicago, St. Louis and New Orleans Railroad Company,
were given by their charters the power to fix and regulate rates
for transportation of persons and property upon their respective
roads. This power was, of course, not without limit; for the
general grant of the franchises, rights, and privileges enumerated in these charters was attended by the condition, which
the law always implies in such cases, that the charges for transportation established by the companies shall be reasonable.
The Mississippi statute of 1884 provides for the appointment
of three commissioners, and invests them with the power of
establishing-upon the basis of "just compensation," and the
protection of persons, localities, or corporations against "unjust
discrimination "-a tariff of charge for the transportation of
persons and property on any railroad owned or operated in
that State. The commissioners, so appointed, are required, in
ascertaining such compensation, "to take into consideration
the character and nature of the- o. vice to be performed, and
the entire business of such railroad, together with its earnings
from the passenger and other traffic;" to so revise these tariffs
"as to allow a fair and just return on the value of such railroad,
its appurtenances and equipments;" and to increase or reduce
the rates so established "as justice to the public and each of
said railroad companies may require," and "as experience and
business operations may show to be just." Any person, company or corporation, operating a railroad in Mississippi, who
fails to conform to the tariff of charges established by the commission, is made liable to a, penalty of $500 for each violation,
recoverable in the name of the State.
I am of opinion that this statute impairs the obligation of
the contract which the State made with these companies, in

OCTOBER TER1, *1885.
Dissenting Opinion : Harlan, T., in Stone v. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co.

this: That it takes from each of them the power conferred
by its charter of fixing and regulating rates for transportation
within the limit of reasonableness, and confers upon a commission autrority to establish, from time to time, such rates as
will give "a fair and just return on the value of such raihoad,
its appurtenances and equipments," and "as experience and
business operations may show to be just." In short, the companies are placed by the statute in the same condition they
would occupy if their charter had not conferred upon them
the power to fix and regulate rates for transportation. The
whole subject of transportation rates is thus remitted to the
judgment of commissioners who have no pecuniary interest
whatever in the management of these vast properties, and who,
if they had any such interest, would be disqualified under the
statute from serving; and who are required to fix rates, according to the value of the property, without any reference to what
it originally cost, or what it had cost to maintain it in fit cqndition for public use.
It is hardly necessary to discuss the proposition that the
right to fix and regulate rates for transportation within the
limit of reasonableness was and is one of great practical value
to these companies; for, the rates so fixed would have governed
the conduct of parties interested in them, unless it was made to
appear, affirmatively, and in some legal mode, that they were
"unreasonable. The object of the construction of the roads
operated by these companies was, as the bill avers and the opinion of the court admits, to establish a continuous line of interstate communication between the Gulf of Mexico and the Great
Lakes of the North. In the accomplishment of that object the
entire country took-a deep interest; for Congress, bygrants of
land and otherwise, gave those enterprises every possible encouragement. Does any one believe that private capitalists
would have supplied the money. necessary to establish and
maintain these lines of inter-state communication had they supposed that the States through which the roads were extended
reserved the right, by commissioners, to take charge of the
whole matter of rates, and abrogate, at 'their, pleasure, such
tariffs of charges as might be established by the companies

RAILI

A9D COMMISSION CASES.

Dissenting Opinion : Harlan, J., in St,"e v. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co.

under the power, expressly conferred, of fixing and regulating
rates? Would they have risked the immense sums invested in
chese enterprises had the charters of the companies contained a
provision making rates to depend, not on the capabilities, wants,
and interests of the territory to be supplied with railroad service, or on the amount expended in constructing and maintainirg these roads, but on their "value" as estimated by commiss'oners, and on such basis as the latter, from time to time,
might deem to be justified by "experience and business operations?" Their value, upon what basis, or at what period of their
existence? When they were constructed? Or what they
would bring at a sale under a decree of court? In the place of
charter provisions, under which rates fixed by the companies
would be deemed legal until the contrary was made to appear,
the statute substitutes a system under which rates established
by. a commission, and by it increased or.diminished from time
to time, must be observed by the companies, unless it is made to
appear, affirmatively, that such rates are" unjust,"-officers and
agents of the compaiies, acting in conformity with express provisions of their charters, being made liable to heavy penalties,
unless they prove that the commission have established an "unjust" tariff of charges.
The court concedes that the power which the State asserts,
by the statute of 1884, of limiting and regulating rates, does
involve the power to destroy or. to confiscate the property of
these companies; and, consequently, it is said, the State cannot
compel them to carry persons or property without reward, nor
do that which in law would amount to a taking of private
property for public use without just compensation. And reference is made to that clause of the statute which provides "that
in all trials of cases brought for a violation of any tariff of
charges, as fixed by the commission, it may be shown in defence that such tariff so fixed is unjust." But if I do -not misapprehend the effect of the opinion, it means tQ declare that where
the tariff of charges fixed by the commissioners does- not-certainly work the destruction or confiscation of these properties,
or amount in law to taking them for public use without just
compensation, the charges so established must be accepted by

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Dissenting Opinion : Field, J., in Stone v. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co.

the courts, as well as by the companies, as reasonable, and,
therefore, not be held or treated as "unjust" in any prosecution
under the act for disregarding such tariff. I cannot otherwise
interpret the observation that the legislature may establish a
maximum, any charge in excess of which must be deemed by
the courts and the parties to be unreasonable.
In expressing the foregoing views I would not be understood as denying the power of the State to establish a railroad commission, or to enforce regulations-not inconsistent
with the essential charter rights of the companies-in reference
to the general conduct of their merely local business. My
only purpose is to express the conviction that each of these
companies has a contract with the State whereby it is exempted from absolute legislative control as to rates, and under
which it may, through its directors, from time to time, within
the limit of reasonableness, establish such rates of toll for the
transportation of persons and property as it deems propersuch rates to be respected by the courts and by the public, unless they are shown affirmatively to be unreasonable.
The bill, in my judgment, makes a case that, justifies a court
of equity in interfering to prevent the commissioners from
imposing upon the defendants any such tariff of charges as the
statute in question authorizes them to establish in reference to
their business exclusively within the State of Mississippi. As
the court withholds any expression of opinion as to the validity
of the statute when applied to inter-state commerce, that is, to
the transportation of persons and property taken up out of
the State and put down in the State, or taken up in the State
and put down out of the State, I have no occasion to discuss
that question. For the reasons stated, I dissent from the
opinion and judgment of the court in these cases.
JusTIcE FIELD, dissenting.*
I concur with Mr. Justice Harlan, that the act of Mississippi
impairs the obligation of the contract contained in the charter
originally granted to the IMobile and Ohio Railroad Company

M.n.

*This dissent applies also to the opinion and judgment of the court in
Stone

v. Illinois CentralJRailroad CJo., post, 347.

RAILROAD COMMISSION CASES.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J., in Stone v. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co.

by Alabama, and soon afterwards adopted by Mississippi. At
that time it was a matter of great public interest to have railway communication between the Gulf of Mexico and the Ohio
River, passing through Alabama, Mississippi, Tennessee, and
Kentucky, and to secure it these States, by legislative acts
passed in February, 1848, incorporated the company, to construct, equip, and operate a railroad from Mobile, in Alabama,
to a point opposite Cairo, in Illinois, at the junction of the Mississippi and Ohio Rivers. The road -as to run, as thus seen,
many hundred miles, part of which was in a country sparsely
settled and in some places covered by almost irreclaimable
swamps. It would require several years and the expenditure
of many millions for its construction. The return for the
heavy investment was to be in the distant future when the
country should become more densely populated, and its zesources better developed. It was a difficult matter to secure
the necessary capital for an enterprise so costly in its character,
so remote in its completion, and so uncertain in its returns.
To effect this the several acts of incorporation authorized the
president and directors of the company to adopt and establish
such a tariff of charges for the transportation of persons and
property as they might think proper, and to alter and change
the same at pleasure. The bill alleges-and the allegation
must be taken as true on the demurrer-that it was also understood by all parties, that when the road was completed it
should be managed by officers selected by the stockholders;
and adds that this right of selecting its officers and of charging
and receiving what it should fix as its tariff, was not only a
material part of the contract, but was the sole inducement
or consideration upon which it was entered into by the company.
Certainly no one will deny that the right to adopt a rate of
charges, subject, as such rate always is, to the condition that
they shall be reasonable, was of vital importance to the company. Without that concession no one acquainted with the
difficulties, expenses, and hazards of the projected enterprise,
can believe that it would have been undertaken. It was
certainly the expectation of the constructors of the road that

OCTOBER TERM. 1885.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J., in Stone v. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co.

they should be allowed to receive compensation having some
relation to its cost. But the act of Mississippi allows only such
compensation as parties appointed by the legislature, not
interested in the property, nor required to possess any knowledge of the intricacies and difficulties of the business, shall
determine to be a fair return on the value of the road and its
appurtenances, though that may be much less than the original
cost. Within the last feiv years, such have been the improvements in machinery, and such the decline in the cost 6f
materials, that it is probably less expensive by one-third to
build and equip the road now than it was when the constructors
completed it. Does anybody believe that they would have
undertaken the work or proceeded with it, had they been informed that, notwithstanding their vast outlays, they should
only be allowed, when it was finished, to receive a fair return
upon its value, however much less than cost that might be?
Under the charter the company conild make such reasonable
discriminations in its charges dependent upof the amount of
business done, the character of the material transported, the
'existence of competitive lines or points, as its interest. might
suggest, and which, to some extent, are indispensable to the
successful management of the business of every railway company. Differences in the bulk-of property of the same weight,
differences in value and in liability to breakage or decay, exact
different degrees of care and speed in its transportation, andconsequently require and justify different charges. And all
experience shows that, where competition by water or otherwise exists, variations in charges must be made from time to
time to secure any portion of the business. These considera-"
tions must have had their influence with the stockholders when
they accepted the charter and undertook the'construction of
the road. The act of Mississippi, which the court says is the
exercise of a lawful right to interfere with the affairs of the
company, never relinquished nor qualified by any stipulation,
declares that no discrimination shall be made in the charges of
the company in any case. Its language is, that "any person
or corporation engaged in transporting passengers or freight
over any railroad in this State,

who for his or its

RAILROAD COMMISSION CASES.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J., in Stone v. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co.

advantage, or for the advantage of any connecting line, or for
any person or locality, shall make any discrimination against
any individual, locality, or corporation, shall be guilty of extortion." And in such cases the injured party can recover
double the amoant of damages sustained by him, and the
off ending party is declared to be guilty of misdemeanor and
subject to a fine from ten to five hundred dollars. The harshness and impolicy of such legislatioft are well shown by illustrations mentioned by counsel. If, for ixstance, where its road
touches a navigable stream, the company charges less per
pound per mile for transportation to a distant point which can
be reached by water, than it does to an inland station, it makes
a discrimina tion against the latter station, and is guilty of extortion, although the transp6rtation would otherwise not be
given to the company. If it charges more per poquid per mile
for local than through freights, it makes a discrimination and
may be punished for extortion. If it charges more per pound
per mile for silks than for cotton goods, or for gold bullion
than for cast iron, or for tea than for coal, it is guilty of a like
discrimination and extortion. If it attempts Jo- encourage the
cultivation of fruits, or the manufacture of cotton, woolen, or
silken fabrics, or any other industry along its line of road by a
reduction of rates until the business is established, it makes a
discrimination, and if higher rates are charged to others the
exaction of the differehce is to them extortion. As well said
by counsel, it makes no difference whether the discrimination
be founded on value, volume distance carried, return haul,
competition, regularity of shipment, or whether the article
transported, is perishable or not, it is prohibited, and if made is
extortion; and thus, as he well observes, the act of Mississippi
pays no attention to the common sense of the world, to the
laws of commerce, or to universal custom. Reductions of rates
made in the interests of charity and benevolence, for the poor,
sick, or infirm, if not also extended to others, would under it
be criminal. Indeed, under the law no cause can exist which
would justify any discrimination.
I am aware that this court has held that, unless restrained
by express' ontract, the legislature of a State has the right to

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J., in Stone v. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co.

prescribe a maximum for charges for transportation of persons
and freight over railways within her limits; but it has not been
generally supposed that different rates, under certain circumstances, may not be made within the maximum in the interest
both of the company and of the public. And the right itself
inust necessarily be subject to the qualification, that the prescribed maximum shall at least equal the cost of the service
required.
Again, the right of the comp.ay to appoint all necessary
officers, agents, or servants would seem to be essential to secure competent and efficient men for the successful management of its business. Few individuals or companies would
undertake an enterprise requiring skill, experience, and large
expenditures, if those who were to conduct it were not to be
selected and controlled by them, but by parties appointed, -perhaps, under political influences, and possibly without the requisite knowledge and experience. The efficiency and fidelity of
employees would be better assured by leaving their appointment to those interested in the judicious management of the
business of the company. Indeed, their usefulness and fidelity
would seldom be secured in any other way. No one, therefore,
can believe that the original stockholders would have accepted
the charter and undertaken the work, if this right of appointing those who were to carry out and manage it when completed
was to. be withdrawn from them. The act of 'Mississippi is so
plain an impairment of this essential right, that I should not
tiave supposed there could be any question on the point, did I
not find that a majority of my associates are of opinion that it
is an entirely constitutional proceeding on the part of the legislature, in no wise interfering with the contract of the company.
I have no doubt that commissioners may, for many purposes,
be appointed by the legislature; but I am not prepared to say
that the direction and control of the business of the company
can, unless a cause of forfeiture or repeal of its charter exists,
be taken from it and confided to them, any more than its business can be changed from transportation to manufacturing or
banking. The right to elect officers to direct and control its
affairs, and to pursue the same kind of business for i. hich it was

RAILROAD COMMISSION CASES.
Syllabus in Stone v. Illinois Central Railroad Co.

formed, must be maintained in any regulations prescribed for
its government, or we must admit that the power of the legislature over the corporation is, in spite of constitutional limitations, as absolute as that of the Parliament of Great Britain.
Indeed, the argument which supports the statute of Mississippi
seems to proceed upon the ground that such is the legitimate
outcome of the decisions of this court with respect to the control which the legislature may exercise over such corporations,
irrespective of any stipulation in their charters. If such be the
result of the decisions, it is important that it should be known,
in order that parties interested in railway property may see
that their protection against unreasonable and vindictive measures is not by appeal to the courts, but by efforts to secure wise
and intelligent action from the legislature.
MR. JUSTICE BLArCHFORD

did not sit in this case or take any

part in its decision.

STONE & Others v. ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD
COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF MISSISSIPPI.

An act of incorporation of a railway company which provides that the president and directors may "adopt and establish such a tariff of chayges for the
transportation of persons and property as they may think proper," and the
same "alter and change at pleasure," does not deprive the State of its power,
within the limits of its general authority as controlled by the Constitution
of the United States, to act upon the reasonableness of the tolls and charges
so adopted and established.
A corporation of one State leasing and operating a railroad in another State
is, as to the leased road, subject to local legislation to the extent to which
the lessor would have been subject had there been no lease.

This was a bill in equity praying for an injunction to restrain the railroad commissioners in Mississippi from enforcing

