- 588

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

HARTOG -v.MEMORY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
INORTHERNI DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
Submitted December 4, 1885.-Decided February 1, 1886.

When the jurisdiction of a Circuit Court of the United States over the parties
by reason of citizenship appears on the face of the record, and no issue is
joined respecting it, evidence not pertinent to the issues made by the pleadings cannot be introduced solely for the purpose of making out a case for
dismissal by reason of the absence of the proper citizenship.
When a Circuit Court of the United States is led to suspect from any cause
that its jurisdiction has been imposed upon, collusively or otherwise, it may
protect itself against fraud or imposition by an inquiry made of its own
motion in such manner as it may direct; and by such further action there.
after as justice may require.
The evidence on which a Circuit Court acts in dismissing a suit for want of
jurisdiction must not only be pertinent either to the issue made by the parties, or to the inquiry instituted by the court, but it must also appear of
record, if either party desires to invoke the appellate jurisdiction of this
court for the review of the order of dismissal.

This was a writ of error brought under ยง 5 of the act of
March 3, 1875, ch. 137, 18 Stat. 370, for the review of an order
The record
dismissing a suit begun in the Circuit 'ourt.
showed that on the 19th of September, 1884. William Haxtog
sued Henry Memory in an action of assumpsit for a breach of
a contract to deliver property sold. "In the declaration Hartog
was described as a citizen of the Kingdom of Holland, and
Memory as a citizen of Illinois. On the 8th of October Memory fied three pleas: 1, general issue; 2, statute of limitations
of Illinois; and, 8, limitation laws of Holland, where the cause
of action accrued. On the 8th of November Hartog obtained
a commissioni for the taking of testimony in Holland, and
Memory was'ruled to file cross-interrogatories by the following Monday. On the 9th of May, 1885, Memory withdrew his
plea of limitation by the laws of Holland, and Hartog filed a
replication to the plea of the statute of limitations7f Illinois.
The case was on the same day tried with a jury. On the trial

HARTOG v. MEMORY.
'Statement of Facts.

the plaintiff introduced

evidence to sustain the issues on his

C"

behalf, which evidence also showed that said plaintiff was a
subject of the King of Holland, and also showed that said defendant had been doing business in the city of Chicago for
several years.
"And thereupon said defendant offered himself as a witness
to maintain the issues on his behalf in said cause, and during
the progress of his examination he was asked by his counsel
the following questions, and gave the following answers:
'Q. Are you a citizen of the United States, Mr. Memory?
'A. No, sir.
IQ. Of what dominion or kingdom are you a citizeA?
'A. I am a citizen of Great Britain, sir.'
"And thereupon said plaintiff, by his counsel, cross-examined
said Memory as follows:
'Q. How long have you. resided and done business in Chicago?
'A. About from eight to ten years, I suppose.
IQ. Where did you do business before that?
' A. I did business for a short time in New York.'
"It also appeared that defendant was in Holland twice in
1879, and that the alleged contract was entered into there.
"Which was all the evidence introduced by either party on
the question of citizenship or residence."
The jury, on the 11th of May, brought in a verdict against
Memory for $2497. A motion for new trial was then entered.
On the 1st of June, before judgment on the verdict, the defendant filed the following motion:
"And now comes the defendant, by his attorney, and it
appearing that the defendant is not a citizen of the United
.States, or of any State, but a citizen and subject of Great
Britain, and that all the parties to this suit are aliens, and that
the court has no jurisdiction in this cause, the said defendant
moves that this case be dismissed for want of jurisdiction in
this court."
This motion was granted, and the suit dismissed June 10.
23 Fed. Rep. 835. To reverse that order this writ of error was

br6ught.

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

.At'. Julius Rosen thal and 2Wr. A. X1.Pence for plaintiff in
error.
.f!r. E. B. Sherman for defendant in error.
Mmt C=F-JIuswmTC WAITE delivered the opinion of the court.
After stating the facts in the language reported above, he continued:
It was well settled before the act of 1875 that when the citizenship necessary for the jurisdiction of the.courts of the United
States appeared on the face of the record, evidence to contradict the record was not admissible, except under a pleain abatement in the nature of a plea to the jurisdiction, and that a plea
to the merits was a waiver of such a plea to the jurisdiction.
Farmington v. Pilbury,114 U. S. 138, 143, and cases there
cited. In its general scope this rule has not been altered by the
act of 1875, but before that"act was passed it had been held
that the rule prevented the courts from taking notice, of colorable assignments or transfers to create cases for the jurisdiction
of the courts of the United States in the absence of a plea in
abatement or to the jurisdiction, and, as that act "opened wide
the door for frauds upon the jurisdiction of the court by collusive transfcrs so as to make colorable parties and create cases
cognizable by the courts of the United States," we held in
Williams v.Nottawa, 104 U. S. 209, 211, that the statute
changed the rule so far as to allow the court at any time, without plea and without motion, to 'stop all further proceedings
and dismiss the suit the moment a fraud on its jurisdiction was
discovered."
Neither party has the right, however, without pleading at
the proper time and in the proper way, to introduce evidence,
the only purpose of vhich is to make out a case for dismissal.
The parties cannot call on the court to go behind the averments
of citizenship in the record, except by a plea to the jurisdiction
or some other appropriate form of proceeding. The case is not
to be-tried by the parties as if there was a plea to the jurisdictionq, when no such plea has been filed. The evidence must be
directed "tothe issues, and it is only when facts material to the

HARTOG v. MEMORY.

.591

Opinion of the Court.

issues show there is no jurisdiction that the court can dismiss
the case upon the motion of either party.
If in the course of a trial it appears by evidence, which is
admissible under the pleadings, and pertinent to the issues
joined, that the suit does not really and substantially involve a
dispute of which the court has cognizance, or that the parties
have been improperly or collusively made or joined for the purpose of creating a cognizable case, the court may stop all further
proceedings and dismiss the suit.
In Tilliam8 v. -Vottawa the iecord showed that one of the
issues to be tried was whether Williams, the plaintiff, was the
real holder and owner of the bonds sued on, and the evidence
showing the collusion, for which we ordered the suit to be dismissed, was all material and pertinent to that issue. And in
Farmingtonv. Pillszry,cited above, one of the defences was
that Pillsbury, the plaintiff, was not the bona.ftde holder of the
coupons in suit, but that they were placed in his hands for the
purpose of being sued on in the courts of the United States.
The case came here on special findings applicable to that issue,
and what we then said was in answer to the question certified
on those findings.
Beyond this, no doubt, if, from any source, the court is led
to suspect that its jurisdiction has been imposed upon by
the collusion of the parties or in any other way, it may at
once of its own motion cause, the necessary inquiry to be
made, either by having the proper issue joined and tried, or
by some other appropriate form of proceeding, and act as justice may require for its own protection against fraud or imposition.
But the evidence on which the Circuit Court acts in dismissing the suit must be pertinent either to the issue made by
the parties, or to the inquiry instituted by the court; and must
appear of record if either party desires to invoke the exercise
of the appellate jurisdiction of this court for the review of the
order of dismissal. Barryv. Edmunds, ante, 550. And when the
defendant has not so pleaded as to entitle him to object to the
jurisdiction, and the objection is taken by the court of its own
motion, justice requires that the plaintiff should have an oppor-

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

tunity to be heard upon the motion, and to meet it by appropriate evidence.
Here the citizenship of both the plaintiff and the defendant,
as it was in good faith understood by the plaintiff to be, was
stated in the declaration, and it was such as if truly stated
gave the court jurisdiction. The defendant pleaded to the
merits. He alone knew of the mistake as to his citizenship,
and purposely omitted to make it known at the time. Under
the issues joined the question of citizenship did not and could
not arise. If a judgment had been rendered on the verdict
Memory-would have been bound by it, notwithstanding both
he and Hartog were aliens. The record would have estopped
him from denying the jurisdiction of the court. The testimony
about his citizenship was irrelevant and wholly immaterial. It
did not in any manner relate to the merits of the case. It
apparently came out incidentally without attracting the attention of the court at the time. The defendant suffered it to pass
withgut special notice until after the verdict against him. He
then moved for a new trial, not, so far as the record.discloses,
because of any errors at the trial, but, as we must presume, for
the purpose of laying the foundation for his motion to dismiss;
And the case appears to have been dismissed by the court solely
upon the defendant's motion and the irrelevant testimony given
at the trial, and without affording the plaintiff an opportunity
to rebut or control that testimony.
Under these circumstances, as there is nothing else in the
case to justify the dismissal of the suit, we are of opinion that
The order di5 m7Ti5ng the suit is erroneous, and must be reversed, and the cause remandedfor further proceeding8 not
inconsistent with this opinion'.

