SHEPARD v. CARRIGAIN.
Opinion of the Court

SHEPARD & Others v. CARRIGAN,.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UEIE

STATES FOR THE

DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.
Argued January

j?56.-Decided February 1,1886.

When an applicant for a patent is compelled by the rejection of his application
at the patent office, to narrow his claim by the introduction of a new,
element, he cannot, after the issue of the patent, broaden his claim by
dropping the element which he was compelled to include in order to secure
the patent.,
The patent granted to Helen M. MacDonald, September 29, 1874, for an .improvement in dress protectors, must be construed to include a fluted or
plaited band or border as one of the essential elements of the invention,
and is not infringed by the manufacture or sale of skirt protectors which
have neither plaited nor fluted bands or boarders.

This was a suit in equity to restrain an alleged infringement
of letters patent. ,The facts are stated in the opinion of the
court.

.Y.

Edward N. Dickemron, for appellants.

Mr. F. P. Figh and -r.

B. F. Butler for appellee.

MR. JusTIoE WooDs delivered the opinion of the court.

This was a suit to restrain the infringement of letters patent
for an " i Ap: ovement in dress protectors," granted to Helen
X. Macdonald, the intestate of the defendant in error, dated
September 29, 1874, upon an application filed May 10, 1873.
The specification of the patent described the invention as
follows:
"My invention relates to protectors for the lower edge of
dresses and other garments, and consists ot a band or strip of
fluted or plaited fabric, either water-proof itself, or covered or
bound with a.y water-proof material.
"In the drawing Fig. 1 represents a view of a detached portion of the dress protector, and Fig. 2 represents the protector
as applied to the bottom of a dress skirt.
VOL. cxv-38

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

"A is the plaited or fluted band, which is water-proof or
bound with water-proof material, and a is a heading to which
it may be secured for better attachment to the garment.
"Heretofore skirt protectors have been made of a plaited or
.fluted strip of ' wiggan' or other fabric stiffened with starch,
which, upon becoming wet, gets limp, loses its shape, and
absorbs the dirt, besides being objectionable on account of the
harsh scraping noise it makes upon the pavement.
"By my improvement these objections are overcome. The
water-proof protector preserves the lower edge of the dress
from all moisture on the ground, retains its rigidity and proper
shape, giving a graceful hang to the skirt, and c~n easily be
cleaned."
Both the figures referred to in the specification represented
skirt protectors made with plaited or fluted bands.
The claim was as follows:
"As a new article of manufacture, a skirt facing or protector,
having a fluted or plaited border, bound with or composed of
enameled cloth or water-proof material, substantially as and for
the purpose set forth."
On November 9, 1814, the patentee filed in the Patent Office,
a disqlaimei by which she struck out from her claim the words
"facing or," leaving the claim to cover only a skirt protector.
The answer of the defendants denied infringement and denied
that Macdonald was the first and original inventor of the im'provement described in her patent.
Upon final hearing, the Circuit Court found the issues were
for the plaintiff, and entered a decree in her favor against the
defendants for profits and damages, and restrained the latter
from selling, to be used, protectors embracing said patented im-.
provement, or any substantial part thereof. From this decree
the defendants appealed. After the appeal Macdonald died,
and Carrigan, who had been appointed her administrator, was
made appellee in her stead.
The evidence shows that skirt protectors are made isolated
and are sold as distinct articles of manufacture, and not as a
part of the dress to which they are to be attached. They are
kept in shops for sale singly or by the dozen, and the purchasers

SHEPARD v. CARRIGAN.
Opinion of the Court.

use them by sewing them on the inside of the trains of long
dresses near the lower edge. They can be easily detached
when worn out and new ones substituted. It is admitted that
the defendants sell skirt protectors made under the patent
issued to Theodore D. Day, March 23, 1875, for an "improvement in skirt protectors." The improvement of Day is that
described in the specification of his patent:
"I use a strip of India-rubber that is made with longitudinal
ribs, of sufficient size to withstand the wear to which it is subjected, and between these ribs there is a groove that makes the
strip light and flexible, and the web of rubber between the
ribs receives a line of stitching, by which the protector strip is
united to a strip of rubber cloth, muslin, or other suitable
material that is to be attached to the inside of the dress at or
near the lower edge."
The skirt protectors made under this patent are not made
with a fluted or plaited band or border. The defendants insist
that, by reason of this fact, they are essentially different from
the improvement described in the Macdonald patent, and
therefore do not infringe that patent. On the other hand, the
plaintiff insists that the fluted or plaited border mentioned in
the Macdonald patent is a matter of descriptive form merely,
and not an essential part of the invention covered by the patent ;
and that the use of skirt protectors without a fluted or plaited
border, but in other respects substantially like the protectors
described in the Macdonald patent, is an infringement of that
patent. Upon this issue we think the defendants are right.
It appears from the fie-wrapper and contents in the matter
of letters patent granted to Helen M. Macdonald, that, in the.
first application for her patent, dated May 6, 1873, the specification described her patent as follows:
" y invention consists of a strip of enamelled'muslin from
two to four inches wide, which may be covered with any dress
material, such as silk, cashmere, alpaca, armure, or tamise
cloth; it is then formed in pleats, and bound across the-top
(like'samples), said pleats being held in place by one row of
machine stitching through the centre. It is then ready to be
sewed in the dress skirt.

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of t&ie Court.

"My invention protects the dress from being out or damaged
by contact with earth or brick or concrete pavements and sidewalks, said invention being impervious to moisture; it also
protects the skirt from being soiled or damaged by mud or
dampness of street crossings, sidewalks, &c.
"It also forms a very neat trimming, and improves the
hanging of the skirt."
On May 10, 1873, Macdonald, for some reason which does
not appear1 withdrew this specification and substituted the following:
"-My invention consists in protecting the lower edge of
dresses and other garments by affixing thereto a portion of
Water-proofed material, or in water-proofing the material itself; and I claim as my invention the use of wa'ter-proofed
material, in whatsoever form it now exists or may hereafter
exist, for the purpose of protecting the lower edge of all garments from wear and soiling, either from friction or moisture,
and refer to the enclosed samples as substantially representing
my invention." In this specification all reference to plaits or
plaiting is omitted.
The application with the substituted specification was rejected by the Patent Office on August 9, 1813, and the applicant was referred to the patent issued to James A. McKee,
January 10, 1865, which covered neither a plaited nor fluted
band-or border as one of its elements. Upon re-examination
her application was, on September 9, again rejected.
On October 9, 1873, after the second rejection, Macdonald
filed an amended specification, in which she described her invention and stated her claim as follows:
"My invention consists in protecting the lower edge of
dresses and other garments by affixing thereto a portion of
water-proofed or enamelled material, or in water-proofing the
material its6lf; and I claim as a new article of manufacture a
skirt facing or protector, having a plaited or fluted border
bound with or composed of enamelled cloth or other waterproof material, substantially as and for the purpose set forth."
On October 30 she was informed by the Patent Office that
her application was adjudged to interfere with the pending ap-

SHEPARD v. CARRIGAN.

597'

Opinion of the Court.

plication, among others, of M. Herbert Chase, and that "the
subject-matter involved in the interference" was ,' a skirt protector having a fluted or plaited border." The skirt protector'
of Chase referred to in the notice of interference was a plaited
strip of India-rubber. Macdonald prevailed over Chase in the
matter of the interference between their two applications, and
received the patent for her invention, which is the patent involved in this suit.
This patent, it will be observed, covers a skirt protector
merely, without including any means or method for attaching
it to the dress, the purchaser being left to fasten the protector
to the dress in her own way.
It is shown by the evidence in the record that for several
years prior to the earliest date assigned by Macdonald for the
discovery of her device, in fact as far back as 1857, strips of
enamelled cloth without fluting or plaiting had been sewed on
the bottom of the skirts of ladies' dresses, so as to project below
the lower edges, with a view of protecting the inside surface
and lowerjedge.
This fact, and the fie-wrapper and contents of which we
have stated the substance, make it clear that the claim and
specification of the Macdonald patent must be construed to
include, as their language requires, a fluted or plaited band or
border as one of the essential elements of the invention. Without this element the patent would not have been issued. The
Patent Office decided that without it the invention had been
anticipated. Where an applicant for a patent to cover a new
combination is compelled by the rejection of his application by
the Patent Office to narrow his claim by the introduction of a
new element, he cannot after the issue of the patent broaden
his claim by dropping the element which he was compelled to
include in order to secfire his patent. Leggett v. Avery, 101
U. S. 256; Goodyear Dental V'tlcanite Co. v. Davis, 102 U. S.
222, 228; Fay v. cordesman, 109 U. S. 408; 3fahn v. Htarwood, 112 U. S. 354, 359; Cartridge Co. v. Cartridge 'o., 112
U. S. 621, 614; Sargent v. . all Safe & Lock- Co., 114 U. S. 63.
In the case of Fay v. Co,'desnman, ubi supra, it was said by
Mr. Justice Blatchford, who delivered the judgment: "The

OCTOBER TERM,

1885.

Opinion of the Court.

claims of the patents sued on in this case are claims for combinations. In such a claim, if the patentee specifies an, element as entering into the combination, either directly by the
language of the claim, or by such a reference to the descriptive
part of the specification as carries such element into the claim,
he makes such element mat6rial to the combination, and the
court cannot declare it to be immaterial. It is his province to
make his own claim and his privilege to restrict it. If it be a
claim to a combination, and be restricted to specified elements,
all must be regarded as material, leaving open only the question whether an omitted part is supplied by an equivalent device or instrumentality." So in 8argent v. Hall Safe & Lock
Co.' ubi supra, the same Justice said: "In patents for combinations of mechanism, limitations and provisos, imposed by the
inventor, especially such as were introduced into an application
after it had been persistently rejected, must be strictly construed against the inventor and in favor of the public, and
looked upon as in the nature of disclaimers." These authorities are in point and decisive of the present case.
If an applicant, in order to get his patent, accepts one with
a narrower claim than that contained in his original application he is bound by it. If dissatisfied with the decision rejecting his application, he should pursue his remedy by appeal.
Under the circumstances of this case, the inventor could not
even get a reissue based on the broader claim which she had
abandoned. Leggett v. Avery, ubi 8ura. Much less can she,
in a suit brought to restrain its infringement, enlarge her patent
by argument, so as to cover elements not falling within its
terms, and which she had explicitly abandoned.
As the skirt protectors sold by the defendants have. neither
plaited nor fluted bands or borders, we are of opinion, in accordance with the views expressed, that they do not infringe
the patent of the plaintiff.
The decree of the Circuit Court must be reversed, and the
cause remanded, with directions to dismniss the bill.

