WINCHESTER & PARTRIDGE MFG. CO. v. CREARY. 161
Syllabus.
had he been totally disabled, to commence from the death of
the husband or father, to continue to the widow during her
widowhood," &c.
It would seem to be too clear for discussion that the construction which the court placed upon these statutory provisions
is correct. It is not to be doubted that the words "total disability" in the pension laws has a technical signification which
cannot be disregarded. And when the statute fixes $30 per
month as the pension, in case of total disability, of an officer
of the rank of 'eneral
Burnett, and declares that his widow
shall receive the same pension as her husband would have received had he been "totally disabled," there is no room left for
a construction that would give her a pension in excess of that
amount. If it is supposed that the law operates unjustly against
the officers and soldiers who became "totally disabled" in the
service, or that an unreasonable distinction is made between different kinds of disability, the remedy is with another department of the government. The courts must give effect to the
intention of Congress as manifested by the statute. They cannot make, but can only declare the law.
Affirmed.
The judgment is

WINCHESTER & PARTRIDGE
IANUFACTURING
COMPANY v. CREARY & Others.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR THE

WESTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
Argued November 17,18, 1885.-Decided December 21,1885.

The declarations of a vendor of personal property made to a third party after
sale and delivery of the property to the vendee, are not admissible in an
action by the vendee against an officer seizing it on a writ of attachment
as the property of the vendor, in order to show,fraud, or conspiracy to defraud, in the sale.

A person whom a purchaser of personal property from a debtor in failing circumstances puts into possession of the property after the sale as his agent

to manage it, cannot afterwards make declarations respecting the character
VOL. cXvi--l

OCTOBER TERM, 188S.
Opinion of the Court.
of the sale, which can be received in evidence against the vendor in proceedings in which the sale Lg olestioned as made in bad faith, or with intent
on the part of the vendor and vendee to hinder and delay thevendor's
creditors.

This suit was brought by plaintiff in error as plaintiff below
agaist an officer who had seized, on a writ of attachment
against Rayner & Co., property sold and delivered by them to
plaintiff. 'Ihe facts which make the case are stated in the
opinion of the court. Judgment below for defendant. Plaintiff .sued out this writ of error to review it.
!r.X.

.

2fr. B. 1.

fOrri8 for Plaintiff in error.
Lee and .Mr. ef Chandler for defendants in

error.
Mi. JusTicE ]HARLnt

delivered the opinion of the court.
The Winchester and Partridge Manufacturing Company, a
Wisconsin corporation, brought this action to recover damages
for the seizure and sale under an attachment sudd out, on the
30th day of March, 1882, by J. E. Hayner & Co., against the
property of John A. Webb & Co., of certain goods, wares, and
merchandise, constituting a stock in trade; of which property"
the plaintiff claims to have been. at the time the attachment
was issued and levied, the owner by purchase from the defendants in the attachment suit. The seizure and sale were made
by direction of Hayner & Co., who, prior to the levy, executed
to the defendant Creary, the officer who received the attachment, an indemnifying bond with sureties. Before the levy
the officer was informed by plaintiff's agent, and also by John
A. Webb, that the property belonged to plaintiff.
The defence proceeds upon the ground that the alleged sale
was fraudulent and void as against the defendants, Hayner &
Co., and other creditors of the vendors.
The evidence, so far as competent, tended to establish the
following facts: On and prior to the 13th of March, 1882,
John A. Webb and Joseph W. Webb were engaged at Austin,
Texas, ufider the firm name of John A. Webb & Co., in selling
wagons, agricultural implements, machinery, &c. In the

WINCHESTER & PARTRIDGE MFG.

CO. v.

CREARY. 163

Opinion of the Court.

course of business they became largely indebted to various persons, firms, and corporations with whom they had dealt; among
others, to the plaintiff in the sum of $19,000, and to the defendants, Hayner & Co. in the sum of $16,262. On the day last
named they sold, after inventory, and by bill of sale, their entire stock in trade, and a large amount of unsettled accounts,
to the plaintiff for the sum of $43,000, which was at that time*
the fair value of the property. Of the purchase price, $19,000
was paid by the cancellation of plaintiff's claim against the
vendors, and the balance was paid by its promissory notes, of
different amounts, and payable at different times. These notes
were used by Webb & Co. in payment of their debts, no part
of them being withheld from creditors. At the time of the
sale the vendors were insolvent. That fact was recognized by
them, and was known as well to plaintiff as to HIayner & Co.,
and to other creditors. By the sale of March 13, 1882, the
vendee, intended to obtain and the vendors intended to give to
it, a preference over all other creditors. Before the sale the
plaintiff requested Webb & Co. to transfer to it only so much
of their property as was necessary to discharge its claim. This
was refused by Webb & Co., who, in view of the character of
their stock, insisted upon selling nothing less than the whole
of it, together with their unsettled accounts. Plaintiff would
not have purchased at all if Webb & Co. had been able to
secure them in any way. It made the purchase because there
was no other mode of saving its claim. Immediately upon the
sale being effected, Webb & Co. surrendered, and the plaintiff,
by its agent Spaulding, took possession of the articles sold, and
through him, thereafter and until the before-mentioned attachment was levied, conducted the business, exercising absolute
control over the property. Within a day or two after taking
possession the plaintiff caused such an alteration in the sign of
the establishment as showed that the business was being conducted by it as the successor of John A. Webb & Co. After
the sale the members of that firm remained in the employment
of plaintiff, as clerks or salesmen, at a fixed monthly compensation. This was in pursuance of an understanding with the
plaintiff at the time of the sale-their knowledge of the busi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

ness and their acquaintance with customers being regarded by
it as important in the disposition of the property. Plaintiff
also retained in its employment others who had been clerks
for Webb & Co. While the latter thought they had been unduly pressed by Hayner & Co., and for that reason did not, at
the time of the sale, feel as kindly toward them as toward
other creditors, and intended by the sale to give a preference
to other creditors over Hayner & Co.-of which fact plaintiff
was informed at the time of its purchase-they had no purpose
to hinder and delay :Eayner & Co. in the collection of their
debts, except as that result was involved in their giving pr.Qference to the plaintiff; nor had plaintiff any purpose, in the
whole transaction, except, by means of the purchase, to secure
its own debt. The evidence discloses a race of diligence
between creditors, who knew the failing condition of their
common debtors, and knew that the latter had the right to
make a preference among them.
The defendants, in their answer, charge that the alleged
purchase by plaintiff was pursuant to a combination and conspiracy between it and the firm of John A. Webb & Co., whereby a pretended sale was to be made with a secret reservation
of an interest in the vendors beyond what was necessary to
discharge plaintiff's claim against them; in other words, that
there was a purpose and design on the part of the vendors and
vendee, to put the property of the debtors in such condition
that plaintiff would be secured while Webb & Co. held at bay
other creditors, whom they did not intend to prefer, particularly
Hayner & Co., and thus hinder and delay them in the collection of their demands.
It is contended-that the charge of combination and conspiracy
was established- by various declarations and statements of
John A. Webb, and of Spaulding, the plaintiff's agent, made
after the sale of the 13th of March, 1882. To the admission of
these declarations and statements as evidence the plaintiff objected. Its objection was overruled, and exception was taken
in proper form to the action of the court. The competency of
that evidence is the principal question to be determined.
We are of opinion that the Court below erred in allowing the

WINCHESTER & PARTRIDGE MFG. CO. v. CREARY. 165
Opinion of the Court.

defendants to introduce proof of these declarations and statements made after the sale. The instruction to the jury upon
this point was in these words: "That it is true, as contented by
the plaintiff, that if the sale, when made, was not vitiated because of fraud, and the sale was one that passed the title to the
plaintiff as against the creditors of Webb & Co., then no act or
declaration of the Webbs, or that of Spaulding, afterwards
made, could affect plaintiff's right to have and hold the property.
Evidence of what was said and done afterwards by the person
in possession and in charge of the goods has been admitted with
a view to ascertain the true character of the sale when made,
and can only be considered with reference thereto." The jury
must have understood, from this language, that they were at liberty in acertaining "the true character of the sale when made,"
to find that plaintiff participated in the fraud charged, if the
statements of John A. Webb and of Spaulding after the sale
justified that conclusion. But such is not the law.
Webb & Co. were not in possession, within the meaning of
the rule, announced in some cases, that permits, in favor of
creditors, proof of the declarations of a vendori of personal
property, who is allowed, after sale, to control, .manage, and
dispose of it just as he had before done. They N '.re not, in any
legal sense, in possession after March 13, 1882. The plaintiff
was itself in actual possession, exercising by its agent full control. The vendors, it is true, entered plaintiff's service as soon
as the sale was made and possession was surrendered, but only as
clerks or salesmen, with no authority except such as employees
of that character ordinarily exercise. What they might say,
not under oath, to others, after possession was surrendered, as
to the real nature of the sale, was wholly Irrelevant. They
were competent to testify under oath, and subject to cross-examination, as to any facts immediately connected with the sale,
of which they had know.l~dge; but their statements out of court,
they not being parties to the issues to be tried, were mere hearsay. After the sale, their interest in the property was gone.
Having become strangers to the title, their admissions are no
more binding on the vendee than the admissions of others. It
is against all principle that their declarations, made after they

• OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

had parted with the title and surrendered possession, should be
allowed to destroy the title of their vendee.
It is, however, insisted that Webb's declarations after the
sale were admissible in support of the charge of combination
or conspiracy to defraud the defendants, Hayner & Co., and
other creditors. Without extending this opinion by a review of
the adjudged cases in which there was proof of concert or collusion between vendor and vendee to defraud creditors, and in
which subsequent declarations of the vendor were offered in evidence against the vendee to prove the true character of the sale,
it is sufficient to say that such declarations are not admissible
against the vendee, unless the alleged common purpose to defraud is first established by independent evidence, and unless
they have such relation to the execution of that purpose that
they fairly constitute a part of the Pe8 ge8tw. There was no
such independent evidence in this case, and there is no foundation for the charge of a conspiracy between the vendors and
vendee to hinder creditors, outside of certain statements which
Webb is alleged to have made after his firm had parted with
the title and surrendered possession..
It is argued that these subsequent declarations of Webb were
competent for the purpose of contradicting him as a witness in
behalf of the plaintiff, by showing that he had made statements out of court different from those made as a witness in
behalf of the plaintiff. No foundation was laid for any such
use of those declarations. Besides, if any such foundation had
existed, the court should have instructed the jury, that, in determining, between the parties to the record, the true character
of the sale, the subsequent declarations of Webb were competent only as impeaching his credibility as a witness.
It is also contended that the declarations and admissions of
Spaulding, the plaintiff's agent, in controlling and- disposing of
the property, were evidence against the plaintiff. But this position cannot be sustained. What Spaulding and the Webbs
did, in and about the' management of the property after the
sale, could be proven if it served to explain the nature and extent of plaintiff's possession. It was for the jury to say whether
there was a real change of possession and control. But noth-

167-

SMITH v. WHITNEY.
Syllabus.

ing that Spaulding said, after the sale, to others, was competent upon the issue as to the character of the sale; that is,
whether it was made in good faith, or with the intent on the
part of Webb & Co. and the plaintiff to hinder and delay creditors. Spaulding was plaintiff's agent to control and manage
the property. It was not within the scope of his agency to
make admissions or declarations as to the circumstances under
which, and the purpose for which, the plaintiff bought the
property Such admissions or declarations are only recitals of
the details or circumstances of a past occurrence, and are not
proof of the existence of the occurrence. They constitute, in
their essence, hearsay evidence.
We are of opinion, upon the wliole case, that the jury were
misdirected as to the law of the case, by those portions of the
charge which allowed them to consider as evidence the subsequent declarations or admissions of Webb and Spaulding, in
respect to the true character or nature of the sale to plaintiff.
The judgment is reversed, with directions to set aside the
verdict and award a new trial.
_Rever8ed.

SMITH v. WHITNEY & Others.
APPEAL

FROM AND

ERROR TO THE

SUPREME

COURT OF THE

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
Argued December 11, 1885.-Decided January 4, 1886.

This court has appellate jurisdiction, under the act of March 3,1835, ch. 855,
of a-judgment of the Supreme Court for the District of Columbia, dismissing a petition for a writ of prohibition to a court martial convened to try
an officer for an offence punishable by dismissal from the service, and consequent deprivation of a salary which during the term of his office would
exceed the sum of $5000.
Where an inferior court has clearly no jurisdiction of a suit, and the defendant therein has objected to its jurisdiction at the outset, and has no other
remedy, he is entitled as matter of right to a writ of prohibition fron, a bourt
having authority to grant it;. and a refusal to grant it, where all the proceedings appear of record, may be reviewed on error.

