OCTOBER TERM, 1981
Per Curiam

454 U. S.

CALIFORNIA EX REL. COOPER, CITY ATTORNEY OF
SANTA ANA, CALIFORNIA v. MITCHELL BROTHERS'

SANTA ANA THEATER

ET AL.

ON PETITION FOR WRIT OF CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF
APPEAL OF CALIFORNIA, FOURTH APPELLATE DISTRICT
No. 81-271.

Decided November 30, 1981

Held: A city, in a public nuisance abatement action against a motion picture theater, is not required, as a matter of constitutional law, to establish the obscenity of the motion pictures at issue by proof "beyond a reasonable doubt." While a State may require such proof in such a case,
that choice is solely a matter of state law and is not required by the First
and Fourteenth Amendments. Although this Court has held that the
"clear and convincing" standard or one of its variants is the appropriate
standard of proof in certain types of civil cases, it has never required
application of the "beyond a reasonable doubt" standard in a civil case as
opposed to a criminal prosecution.
Certiorari granted; 114 Cal. App. 3d 923, 171 Cal. Rptr. 85, reversed and
remanded.
PER CURIAM.

The petition for certiorari is granted limited to Question 2
presented in the petition, namely, whether a city, in a public
nuisance abatement action brought against a motion picture
theater, must prove beyond a reasonable doubt that the motion pictures at issue are obscene.1
The Santa Ana City Attorney brought this action against
respondents to abate a public nuisance pursuant to Cal.
Civ. Proc. Code Ann. §731 (West 1980).1 The comThe petition is otherwise denied.
Section 731 provides in pertinent part:
"An action may be brought by any person whose property is injuriously
affected, or whose personal enjoyment is lessened by a nuisance, as the
same is defined in section thirty-four hundred and seventy-nine of the Civil
Code, and by the judgment in such action the nuisance may be enjoined or
abated as well as damages recovered therefor. A civil action may be

CALIFORNIA v. MITCHELL BROS.' SANTA ANA THEATER
90

91

Per Curiam

plaint alleged that numerous films shown by the respondents
were obscene and thus constituted a public nuisance as defined by Cal. Civ. Code Ann. §§ 3479, 3480 (West 1970).1
The complaint sought, inter alia, court approval of a resolution passed by the Santa Ana City Council revoking all of respondents' operating licenses and permits, a permanent injunction forbidding respondents to show the films named in
the complaint, and a 1-year closure of respondents' theater.
The trial court determined that the complaint presented
both equitable and legal issues and ordered that a jury trial
be held on the issues of obscenity, public nuisance, and damages prior to resolution of the equitable issues by the court.
The jury trial was divided into liability and damages stages.
After the evidence pertaining to obscenity and public nuisance had been presented, the jury was instructed that they
could find the films at issue to be obscene only if they were
persuaded of such "beyond a reasonable doubt." The jury
found 11 films obscene, 4 not obscene, and was unable to
reach a verdict on 2 others.
Following a jury determination of damages, the court isbrought in the name of the people of the State of California to abate a public nuisance, as the same is defined in section thirty-four hundred and
eighty of the Civil Code, . . .by the city attorney of any town or city in
which such nuisance exists ...."
" Sections 3479 and 3480 provide in pertinent part:
"§ 3479 .... Anything which is injurious to health, or is indecent or offensive to the senses, or an obstruction to the free use of property, so as to
interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property, . . . is a
nuisance."
"§ 3480.... A public nuisance is one which affects at the same time an
entire community or neighborhood, or any considerable number of persons,
although the extent of the annoyance or damage inflicted upon individuals
may be unequal."
See also People ex rel. Busch v. Projection Room Theater, 17 Cal. 3d 42,
49, 550 P. 2d 600, 603-604 (exhibition of obscene films may be characterized
as "indecent" or "offensive to the senses"), cert. denied sub nom. Van de
Kamp v. Projection Room Theater, 429 U. S.922 (1976).

OCTOBER TERM, 1981
Per Curiam

454 U. S.

sued findings of fact and conclusions of law with respect to
the equitable issues. The court found, independently from
the jury verdict and based upon its own viewing, that the
same 11 films were obscene beyond a reasonable doubt as the
term obscene is defined in Cal. Penal Code Ann. §311(a)
(West 1970).1 There were cross-appeals, the city asserting,
among other things, that the trial court erred in imposing the
beyond-reasonable-doubt burden of proof. The California
Court of Appeal affirmed on this issue. Relying on this
Court's observation that "the regulation of a communicative
activity such as the exhibition of motion pictures must adhere
to more narrowly drawn procedures than is necessary for the
abatement of an ordinary nuisance," Vance v. Universal
Amusement Co., 445 U. S. 308, 315 (1980) (per curiam), and
JUSTICE BRENNAN'S statement that "the hazards to First
Amendment freedoms inhering in the regulation of obscenity
require that even in ... a civil proceeding, the State comply
with the more exacting standard of proof beyond a reasonable doubt," McKinney v. Alabama, 424 U. S. 669, 683-684
(1976) (concurring opinion), the court concluded that "one of
the required procedures is that obscenity be proved beyond a
reasonable doubt."' 5 People ex rel. Gow v. Mitchell Bros.'
Santa Ana Theater, 114 Cal. App. 3d 923, 936, 171 Cal. Rptr.
85, 93 (1981). We reverse.
The purpose of a standard of proof is "to instruct the
factfinder concerning the degree of confidence our society
'Section 311(a) reads:

"'Obscene matter' means matter, taken as a whole, the predominant appeal of which is to the average person, applying contemporary standards,
is to prurient interest, i.e., a shameful or morbid interest in nudity, sex, or
excretion; and is matter which taken as a whole goes substantially beyond
customary limits of candor in description or representation of such matters;
and is matter which taken as a whole is utterly without redeeming social
importance."

'The court's conclusion rested solely on federal ground-; no state authority was cited for the proposition that obscenity must be proved beyond a
reasonable doubt.

CALIFORNIA v. MITCHELL BROS.' SANTA ANA THEATER
90

93

Per Curiam

thinks he should have in the correctness of factual conclusions
for a particular type of adjudication." In re Winship, 397
U. S. 358, 370 (1970) (Harlan, J., concurring). Three standards of proof are generally recognized, ranging from the
"preponderance of the evidence" standard employed in most
civil cases, to the "clear and convincing" 6 standard reserved
to protect particularly important interests in a limited number of civil cases, to the requirement that guilt be proved "beyond a reasonable doubt" in a criminal prosecution. See
Addington v. Texas, 441 U. S. 418, 423-424 (1979). This
Court has, on several occasions, held that the "clear and convincing" standard or one of its variants is the appropriate
standard of proof in a particular civil case. See Addington v.
Texas, supra, at 431 (civil commitment); Rosenbloom v.
Metromedia, Inc., 403 U. S. 29, 52 (1971) (libel); Woodby
v. INS, 385 U. S. 276, 285 (1966) (deportation); Chaunt v.
United States, 364 U. S. 350, 353 (1960) (denaturalization);
Schneiderman v. United States, 320 U. S. 118, 159 (1943)
(denaturalization). However, the Court has never required
the "beyond a reasonable doubt" standard to be applied in a
civil case. "This unique standard of proof, not prescribed or
defined in the Constitution, is regarded as a critical part of
the 'moral force of the criminal law,' In re Winship, 397
U. S., at 364, and we should hesitate to apply it too broadly
or casually in noncriminal cases." Addington v. Texas,
supra, at 428.
Thus while a State may require proof beyond reasonable
doubt in an obscenity case, that choice is solely a matter of
state law. The First and Fourteenth Amendments do not
IThe precise verbal formulation of this standard varies, and phrases such
as "clear and convincing," "clear, cogent, and convincing," and "clear, un-

equivocal, and convincing" have all been used to require a plaintiff to prove
his case to a higher probability than is required by the preponderance-ofthe-evidence standard. C. McCormick, Evidence §320, p. 679 (1954).
See also Kaplan, Decision Theory and the Factfinding Process, 20 Stan. L.
Rev. 1065, 1072 (1968).

OCTOBER TERM, 1981
STEVENS,

J., dissenting

454 U. S.

require such a standard. The judgment of the Court of Appeal is reversed, and the case is remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
So ordered.
JUSTICE BRENNAN,

with whom JUSTICE MARSHALL joins,

dissenting.
Although I adhere to my view that a State may not constitutionally suppress sexually oriented films except perhaps
as necessary to shield juveniles or unconsenting adults, see,
e. g., ParisAdult Theatre I v. Slaton, 413 U. S. 49, 73 (1973)
(BRENNAN, J., dissenting), since the State alone has petitioned for review in this case, I concur in limiting the grant of
certiorari to consideration of whether the State must demonstrate beyond a reasonable doubt that communication it seeks
to suppress is obscene. I share, however, JUSTICE STEVENS' concern, post, at 97, that we lack the requisite assurance of our jurisdiction to consider this question and join his
suggestion that we adhere to our ordinary practice of denying the writ or of remanding to the state court for a determination of whether the decison below rests on a federal or a
state ground. Californiav. Krivda, 409 U. S. 33 (1972).
Alternatively, assuming we have jurisdiction in this case, I
dissent from the Court's holding that the First Amendment
does not require the State when it seeks to suppress otherwise constitutionally protected material to prove that material obscene beyond a reasonable doubt. My reasons are
stated in my concurring opinion in McKinney v. Alabama,
424 U. S. 669, 683-687 (1976).
JUSTICE STEVENS,

dissenting.

Without the benefit of full briefs and arguments I would
not answer the question whether the First Amendment requires that obscenity be proved beyond a reasonable doubt in

CALIFORNIA v. MITCHELL BROS.' SANTA ANA THEATER
90

STEVENS,

95

J., dissenting

a public nuisance abatement action.' JUSTICE BRENNAN'S
opinion in McKinney v. Alabama, 424 U. S. 669, 683-687, in
which Justice Stewart and JUSTICE MARSHALL joined, demonstrates the substantiality of the question. It is distressing
to find that the Court considers novel questions of this character so easy as not even to merit argument.2 It is also surprising to find the Court reaching out to decide such a question when its jurisdiction to do so is doubtful and when the
absence of conflict on the question normally would call for a
routine denial of certiorari.
I
In this public nuisance abatement action the California Superior Court and the California Court of Appeal concluded
that obscenity must be proved beyond a reasonable doubt.
See People ex rel. Gow v. Mitchell Brothers' Santa Ana Theater, 114 Cal. App. 3d 923, 935-937, 171 Cal. Rptr. 85, 92-93
'Cf. Snepp v. United States, 444 U. S. 507, 516 (STEVENS, J.,
dissenting).
'When the State prohibits its citizens from purchasing books they want
to read or entering theaters to view motion pictures they want to see, it
engages in a form of censorship. The task of the censor cannot be performed without examining the content of the communication under scrutiny. Although a majority of the Court has stoutly and repeatedly denied
that government has any power to draw distinctions based on the content
of any expression, see the separate opinions in FCC v. PacificaFoundation, 438 U. S. 726, and in Young v. American Mini Theatres, Inc., 427
U. S. 50, today the Court holds that the California courts were unnecessarily concerned that the censor's content-based scrutiny might result in the
prohibition of protected communication. The holding seems to rest on an
assumption that, no matter what the consequences of a civil lawsuit may
be, the Constitution does not require the plaintiff to satisfy the reasonabledoubt standard of proof. If the Court is endorsing that broad assumption
today, then this decision is far more important than even the substantial
question presented for review would indicate. If the Court does not intend to endorse such a broad premise, its opinion should respond to the arguments advanced by JUSTICE BRENNAN, Justice Stewart, and JUSTICE
MARSHALL in McKinney.

OCTOBER TERM, 1981
STEVENS,

J., dissenting

454 U. S.

(1981). Without deciding whether the First Amendment imposes any special standard of proof on the censorship of allegedly obscene materials, the Court today opines that proof beyond a reasonable doubt is not constitutionally required.
The Court has no jurisdiction to express that opinion unless
the California courts imposed that standard because they understood it to be required by federal law. It is by no means
clear that they did so.
State courts surely know the difference between opinions
that merely contain persuasive reasoning and opinions that
are authoritative because they explain a ruling that is binding
on lower courts. Moreover, absent a definitive ruling from a
higher tribunal, state courts are entitled to fashion state
rules of procedure to govern the conduct of civil trials in state
courts. Until today, this Court has never expressed an opinion on the standard of proof that a trial court should impose
on a civil litigant seeking to prove that a motion picture film
is obscene.
The explanation by the California Court of Appeal of its
ruling on the standard-of-proof issue does not indicate that
the court considered itself bound to follow any decision by
this Court. As the Court of Appeal explained, the trial
judge "established the high burden of proof based on the reasoning of Mr. Justice Brennan's concurring opinion in McKinney v. Alabama, supra, 424 U. S. 669, 678." Id., at 935, 171
Cal. Rptr., at 92. After citing People v. Frangadakis,184
Cal. App. 2d 540, 550, 7 Cal. Rptr. 776, 782 (1960),' and rejecting the City Attorney's argument that the standard of
proof required in normal public nuisance abatement actions
should be applied in an obscenity case, the California Court of
Appeal stated that it "agree[d]" with the burden of proof portion of JUSTICE BRENNAN'S opinion and found one passage
3
In that case the court held that the standard of proof in an action to
abate a public nuisance under California Business and Professional Code
§ 25604 is by a preponderence of the evidence.

CALIFORNIA v. MITCHELL BROS.' SANTA ANA THEATER
90

STEVENS,

"particularly persuasive."

97

J., dissenting

114 Cal. App. 3d, at 936, 171 Cal.

Rptr., at 93.4
The state court's opinion may be construed in either of two
ways. On the one hand, because the Court of Appeal agreed
with the reasoning in JUSTICE BRENNAN'S opinion, it may
merely have established the procedural rule to be followed in
the state courts subject to its jurisdiction.'
On the other
hand, it may have assumed that a lesser burden would have
complied with state law but nevertheless ruled as it did because it believed the Federal Constitution required that result. When this sort of ambiguity is present, our jurisdiction
is doubtful and we have a duty to withhold decision on the
merits until we are able "to say with requisite assurance that
this Court has jurisdiction in the premises." Mental Hygiene Dept. of Cal. v. Kirchner, 380 U. S. 194, 196.
As Justice Harlan emphasized in that case:
"This Court is always wary of assuming jurisdiction of a
case from a state court unless it is plain that a federal
4

Contrary to the Court's characterization, ante, at 92, the Court of Appeal did not hold that Vance v. UniversalAmusement Co., 445 U. S.308,
compelled its conclusion "that one of the required procedures is that obscenity be proved beyond a reasonable doubt." 114 Cal. App. 3d, at 936,
171 Cal. Rptr., at 93. Rather, the court cited and quoted from Vance in
the course of its rejection of the city's argument that a statement towards
the end of this Court's long opinion in Mugler v. Kansas, 123 U. S. 623,
673, "support[s] its position that the burden of proof should be by 'clear and
convincing evidence."' 114 Cal. App. 3d, at 935, 171 Cal. Rptr., at 92.
Since the argument based on Mugler is meritless, it is a mistake to attach
undue significance to the court's response to that argument.
The reasonable-doubt standard is no stranger to civil litigation. See,
e. g., cases cited in 9 J. Wigmore, Evidence § 2498, nn. 2-12 (J. Chadbourn
rev. 1981). This Court has even used the standard in several civil contexts. See Radio Corporationof America v. Radio EngineeringLaboratories, Inc., 293 U. S. 1, 7-8 (invalidity of patent); Ward & Gow v.
Krinsky, 259 U. S. 503, 522 (constitutional invalidity of state statute);
Moore v. Crawford, 130 U. S.122, 134 (invalidity of title); cf. Fidelity Mutual Life Assn. v. Mettler, 185 U. S.308, 317.

OCTOBER TERM, 1981
STEVENS,

J., dissenting

454 U. S.

question is necessarily presented, and the party seeking
review here must show that we have jurisdiction of the
case. Were we to assume that the federal question was
the basis for the decision below, it is clear that the California Supreme Court, either on remand or in another
case presenting the same issues, could inform us that its
opinion was in fact based, at least in part, on the California Constitution, thus leaving the result untouched by
whatever conclusions this Court might have reached on
the merits of the federal question." Id., at 197 (footnote
omitted).
Later in the opinion, Justice Harlan emphasized that we
must be able to say with "certainty that the California judgment rested solely on [a federal ground]," id., at 200 (emphasis in original), before we may take jurisdiction of a case coming from a state court.
Unless a case presents a question of unusual importance,
jurisdictional doubt of this character normally leads to the
dismissal of the writ of certiorari as improvidently granted,
or to its denial if the petition is still pending. Id., at
200-201. If the issue is sufficiently important, our practice
is to remand to the state court to make sure that its decision
rested solely on a state ground before we proceed further.
See, e. g., Californiav. Krivda, 409 U. S.33. Whether one
regards this as an important or an unimportant case, surely
we should not simply ignore the customary restraints on the
exercise of our limited jurisdiction over state courts.
II
Entirely apart from the jurisdictional question, adherence
to the Court's traditional practice of avoiding the unnecessary and premature adjudication of constitutional questions
counsels denial of this certiorari petition. As a practical
matter, what is at stake is the City Attorney's request for a
retrial of the question whether 17 rather than just 11 motion

CALIFORNIA v. MITCHELL BROS.' SANTA ANA THEATER
STEVENS,

99

J., dissenting

picture films are obscene. No conflict between the ruling of
the California Court of Appeal and that of any other court has
been called to our attention. Even if one intermediate appellate court has given greater constitutional protection to
some citizens of California than this Court would require,
that is hardly a sufficient reason for reviewing the state
court's decision.6 No pressing need for the exercise of our
jurisdiction at this time is apparent to me.
Accordingly, I respectfully dissent from the decision to
grant certiorari and to decide the case summarily.

"See Idaho Dept. of Employment v. Smith, 434 U. S. 100, 103-105
VENS,

J., dissenting in part).

(STE-

