ALSTATE CONSTRUCTION CO. v. DURKIN.

13

Opinion of the Court.

ALSTATE CONSTRUCTION CO. v. DURKIN,
SECRETARY OF LABOR.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 296.

Argued February 2-3, 1953.-Decided March 9, 1953.

Petitioner produces in Pennsylvania a road-surfacing mixture made
from materials bought or quarried in Pennsylvania. Most of it

is used in Pennsylvania on interstate roads and railroads and on
the improvement of facilities for companies producing goods for
interstate commerce. Held: Petitioner's employees who do not
work on the roads themselves but are engaged in the production
of the road-surfacing mixture for the uses shown are engaged in
the "prodiuction of goods for commerce" and are within the coverage of the Fair Labor Standards Act. Pp. 13-17.
195 F. 2d 577, affirmed.

The District Court enjoined petitioner from violating
the overtime and record-keeping provisions of the Fair
Labor Standards Act. 95 F. Supp. 585. The Court of
Appeals affirmed. 195 F. 2d 577. This Court granted
certiorari. 344 U. S. 895. Affirmed, p. 17.
Samuel A. Schreckengaust,Jr.argued the cause for petitioner. With him on the brief was Gilbert Nurick.
Bessie Margolinargued the cause for respondent. With
her on the brief were Solicitor General Cummings and
William S. Tyson.
CharlesA. Horsky, W. Crosby Roper, Jr.and Amy Ruth
Mahin filed a brief for the National Sand & Gravel Association, as amicus curiae, urging reversal.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK

delivered the opinion of the Court.

Section 7 (a) of the Fair Labor Standards Act requires
employers to pay each employee covered by the Act not
less than one and one-half times his regular pay rate for

OCTOBER TERM, 1952.
Opinion of the Court.

345 U. S.

every hour worked in excess of a forty-hour week;
§ 11 (c) requires employers to keep appropriate employment records.1 Employees covered are defined as those
''engaged in commerce or in the production of goods
for commerce." We have held that employees repairing
interstate roads or railroads are "engaged in commerce"
within the meaning of that clause of § 7 (a).' The question presented in this case is whether employees who
work off such roads in the production of materials to repair them are engaged "in the production of goods for
commerce" within the meaning of § 7 (a).
The Wage and Hour Administrator sued in District
Court to enjoin the petitioner Alstate Construction Company from violating the overtime and record-keeping
provisions of the Act. The District Court found: Alstate is a Pennsylvania road contractor that reconstructs
and repairs roads, railroads, parkways and like facilities
in that state. The company also manufactures at three
Pennsylvania plants a bituminous concrete road surfacing mixture called amesite made from materials either
bought or quarried in Pennsylvania. Most of it is applied to Pennsylvania roads either by Alstate's own employees or by Alstate's customers. Eighty-five and onehalf percent of Alstate's work here involved was done on
interstate roads, railroads, or for Pennsylvania companies producing goods for interstate commerce, and
14112% was done on projects that did not relate to interstate commerce. Alstate made no attempt to segregate
payments to its employees on the basis of whether their
work involved interstate or intrastate activities.
'52 Stat. 1060, as amended, 63 Stat. 910, 912-913, 29 U. S. C.
§§ 207 (a), 211 (c).
2Overstreet v. North Shore Corp., 318 U. S. 125; Pedersen v.
Fitzgerald Construction Co., 318 U. S. 740, reversing 288 N. Y. 687,
43 N. E. 2d 83, on the authority of Overstreet v. North Shore Corp.,
supra.

ALSTATE CONSTRUCTION CO. v. DURKIN.
13

15

Opinion of the Court.

The District Court held that all of Alstate's employees
were covered by the Act and granted the injunction
prayed. 95 F. Supp. 585. The Court of Appeals for
the Third Circuit affirmed, holding that those employees
of Alstate who worked on roads were "in commerce," and
that its "off-the-road" plant employees were producing
road materials "for commerce." 195 F. 2d 577. On similar facts, the Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit
applied the Act to "off-the-road" employees. Tobin v.
Johnson, 198 F. 2d 130. An opposite result was reached
by the Tenth Circuit in E. C. Schroeder Co. v. Clifton,
153 F. 2d 385, and the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania
in Thomas v. Hempt Bros., 371 Pa. 383, 89 A. 2d 776.
To settle this question we granted certiorari in this and
the Hempt Bros. case. 344 U. S. 895.
Amesite is produced in Pennsylvania for use on Pennsylvania roads.. None of it is manufactured with a purpose to ship it across state lines. For this reason, so
Alstate contends, amesite is not produced "for commerce." Obviously, acceptance of this contention would
require us to read "production of goods for commerce"
as though written "production of goods for transportation in commerce"-that is, across state lines. Such limiting language did appear in the bill as it passed the
Senate,3 but Congress left it out of the Act as passed.
Of course production of "goods" for the purpose of shipping them across state lines is production."for commerce."
But we could not hold-consistently with Overstreet v.
North Shore Corp., 318 U. S. 125, and Pedersen v. Fitzgerald Construction Co., 318- U. S.. 740-that the only
way to produce goods "for commerce" is to produce them
for transportation across state lines.
• In the Overstreet and Pedersen cases, supra, we had
to decide whether employees engaged in repairing inter3 81

Cong. Rec. 7957.

OCTOBER TERM, 1952.
Opinion of the Court.

345 U. S.

state roads and railroads were "in commerce." In Overstreet we pointed out that interstate roads and railroads
are indispensable "instrumentalities" in the carriage of
persons and goods that move in interstate commerce.
We then held that because roads and railroads are in
law and in fact integrated and indispensable parts of our
system of commerce among the states, employees repairing them are "in commerce." Consequently he who
serves interstate highways and railroads serves commerce.
By the same token he who produces goods for these indispensable and inseparable parts of commerce produces
goods for commerce. We therefore conclude that Alstate's off-the-road employees were covered by the Act
because engaged in "production of goods for commerce."
It is contended that we should not construe the Act
as covering the "off-the-road" employees because it was
given a contrary interpretation by its administrators
from 1938 until 1945. During these first years after
the Act's passage the administrator did take such a
position. But more experience with the Act together
with judicial construction of its scope ' convinced its
administrators that the first interpretation was unjustifiably narrow. He therefore publicly announced that offthe-road employees like these were protected by the Act.
The new interpretation was reported to congressional
committees on a number of occasions. Interested employers severely criticized the administrator's changes.
Specific amendments were urged to neutralize his interpretation. Such neutralizing amendments were suggested to congressional committees by the National Sand
and Gravel Association which has filed a brief before
4

Fleming v. Atlantic Co., 40 F. Supp. 654, affirmed sub nom. Atlantic Co. v. Walling, 131 F. 2d 518; Lewis v. FloridaPower & Light
Co., 154 F. 2d 751; Southern United Ice Co. v. Hendrix, 153 F.. 2d
689; Chapman v. Home Ice Co., 136 F. 2d 353.

ALSTATE CONSTRUCTION CO. v. DURKIN.
13

DOUGLAS,

17

J., dissenting.

us as amicus curiae.' Instead of adopting any of the suggestions to undermine the administrator's interpretation,
Congress in a 1949 amendment to the Fair Labor Standards Act provided that all past orders, regulations and
interpretations of the administrator should remain in effect "except to the extent that any such order, regulation,
interpretation, . . . may be inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, or may from time to time be amended,
modified, or rescinded by the Administrator
. 6
We decline to repudiate an administrative interpretation of the Act which Congress refused to repudiate after
being repeatedly urged to do so.
There is an objection to the scope of the injunction,
but we are satisfied with the Court of Appeals' treatment
of this contention.

Affirmed.
with whom MR. JUSTICE FRANKconcurs, dissenting.
The Court reasons that if the man who is building or
repairing an interstate highway is "engaged in commerce," the one who carries cement and gravel to him
from a nearby pit is "engaged in the production of goods
for commerce." Yet if that is true, how about the men
who produce the tools for those who carry the cement
and gravel or those who furnish the materials to make
the tools used in producing the cement and gravel?
Each would be essential to the highway worker "engaged
in commerce." Yet the circle gets amazingly large once
we say that "the production of goods for commerce" includes the "production of goods for those engaged in
commerce." Cf. McLeod v. Threlkeld, 319 U. S.491.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS,

FURTER

-5See for illustration Hearings before Subcommittee No. 4 of
House Committee on Education and Labor on H. R. 40, 80th Cong.,
1st Sess. 1374-1375.
6 63 Stat. 910, 920.

OCTOBER TERM, 1952.
DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

345 U. S.

A person who is maintaining or repairing interstate
transportation fqcilities is "engaged in commerce."
Overstreet v. North Shore Corp., 318 U. S. 125. A person who is creating articles destined for the channels of
interstate commerce and all others who have such a close
and immediate connection with the process as to be an
essential or necessary part of it are engaged in "the production of goods for commerce." See Kirschbaum Co. v.
Walling, 316 U. S. 517. If those who serve those "engaged in commerce" are also included, a large measure
of cases affecting commerce are brought into the Act.
Yet the history of the Act shows that no such extension
of the federal- domain was intended. See Kirschbaum
Co. v. Walling, supra, pp. 522-523. If those whose activities are necessary or essential to support those who are
"engaged in commerce" are to be brought under the Act,
I think an amendment of the Act would be necessary.

