OPINION OF INDIVIDUAL JUSTICE
IN CHAMBERS

DEBOER, AKA BABY GIRL CLAUSEN, BY HER NEXT
FRIEND, DARROW v. DEBOER ET AL.
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY
No. A-64. Decided July 26, 1993*
Applications to stay enforcement of a Michigan Supreme Court order directing applicant DeBoers to deliver applicant child to her natural parents in Iowa are denied. There is neither a reasonable probability that
the Court will grant certiorari nor a fair prospect that, if it did so, it
would conclude that the decision below is erroneous. Determinations
made by the Iowa Supreme Court and Michigan Court of Appeals-that
the DeBoers were not entitled to adopt the child because her biological
father's parental rights had not been terminated-control this proceeding's ultimate outcome. Iowa law, Michigan law, and federal law do not
authorize unrelated persons to retain custody of a child simply because
they may be better able to provide for her future and education. There
is no valid federal objection to the conduct or outcome of the Iowa court
proceedings. When the DeBoers sought to modify the Iowa Supreme
Court's decision in the Michigan courts, rather than seeking review of
the decision, the Michigan Supreme Court correctly concluded that
Michigan courts are obligated to give effect to the Iowa proceedings.

Circuit Justice.
Applicants in No. A-65 are residents of Washtenaw
County, Michigan. On July 2, 1993, the Michigan Supreme
Court entered an order requiring them to comply with custody orders that had previously been entered by the Michigan Court of Appeals and by the Iowa state courts which
had directed them to deliver a child to its natural parents in
Iowa. They have filed an application with me in my capacity
JUSTICE STEVENS,

*Together with No. A-65, DeBoer v. Schmidt, also on application for
stay.

DEBOER v. DEBOER
Opinion in Chambers

as Circuit Justice for the Sixth Circuit for a stay of enforcement of that order. Applicant in No. A-64 is the child represented by her "next friend," who seeks the same relief.
Because I am convinced that there is neither a reasonable
probability that the Court will grant certiorari nor a fair
prospect that, if it did so, it would conclude that the decision
below is erroneous, I have decided to deny the applications.
Respondents are the natural parents of Jessica Clausen,
who was born in Iowa on February 8,1991. When the child
was 17 days old, applicants filed a petition for adoption in the
Iowa courts. In the ensuing proceedings, the Iowa courts
determined that the parental rights of the child's biological
father had not been terminated in accordance with Iowa law
and that therefore applicants were not entitled to adopt the
child. For reasons that have been stated at length in
opinions of the Iowa Supreme Court, the Michigan Court of
Appeals, and the Michigan Supreme Court, those determinations control the ultimate outcome of this proceeding.
Applicants' claim that Jessica's best interests will be served
by allowing them to retain custody of her rests, in part, on
the relationship that they have been able to develop with the
child after it became clear that they were not entitled to
adopt her. Neither Iowa law, nor Michigan law, nor federal
law authorizes unrelated persons to retain custody of a child
whose natural parents have not been found to be unfit simply
because they may be better able to provide for her future
and her education. As the Iowa Supreme Court stated:
"[C]ourts are not free to take children from parents simply
by deciding another home offers more advantages." In re
B. G. C., 496 N. W. 2d 239, 241 (1992) (internal quotation
marks and citation omitted).
My examination of the opinions in the litigation persuades
me that there is no valid federal objection to the conduct or
the outcome of the proceedings in the Iowa courts. Indeed,
although applicants applied to JUSTICE BLACKMUN in his capacity as Justice for the Eighth Circuit for a stay of enforce-

Cite as: 509 U. S. 1301 (1993)

1303

Opinion in Chambers

ment of the judgment entered by the Iowa Supreme Court
on September 23, 1992, they did not seek review of that judgment after he had denied the stay application. Rather than
comply with the Iowa judgment, applicants sought a modification of that judgment in the Michigan courts. In my opinion, the Michigan Supreme Court correctly concluded that
the Michigan courts are obligated to give effect to the Iowa
proceedings. The carefully crafted opinion of the Michigan
Supreme Court contains a comprehensive and thoughtful explanation of the governing rules of law. Accordingly, the
stay applications will be denied.
It is so ordered.

