WASHINGTON v. SUPERIOR COURT.
352

Statement of the Case.

Conger v. New York, W. S. & B. R. Co., 120 N.Y. 29; 23
N.E. 983; Clarke v. Rochester, L. & N. F. R. Co., 18 Barb.
350; Whalen v. Baltimore & Ohio R. Co., 108 Md. 11; 69
Atl. 390; Curranv. Holyoke Water Power Co., 116 Mass.
90; Southern Ry. Co. v. Franklin & P. R. Co., 96 Va.
693; 32 S.E. 485; cf. Willard v. Tayloe, 8 Wall. 557.
Affirmed.

WASHINGTON Ex REL. BOND & GOODWIN &
TUCKER, INC. v. SUPERIOR COURT OF WASH:
INGTON FOR SPOKANE COUNTY ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF WASHINGTON

No. 663.

Argued April 19, 1933.-Decided May 8, 1933

1. A State may -provide, among the conditions upon which a foreign
corporation may be admitted to do local business, that if the
corporation withdraw from the State and fail to maintain a local
agency for receiving service of process, service may be made on
a designated state official. P. 364.
2. Failure to provide further for notifying the absent corporation of
such substituted service does not make the statute obnoxious to
due process, in the case of a corporation which entered the State by
complying with the statute; since by so doing it accepted the statutory- terms, and since, having withdrawn, it could have assured
itself of notice by designating a new agent or otherwise. P. 365.
3. The question whether under a state statute providing for service
-on the Secretary of State service may be made on the Assistant
Secretary of State, is not a federal question. P. 366.
4. State statutes providing that, as to domestic corporations- having
no local office, and as to foreign insurance companies, substituted
service on the Secretary of State shall be valid only if he sends
notice to the corporation so served, but making no provision for
such further notice to other foreign corporations, do not deny
to the latter the equal protection of the laws. P. 366.
169 Wash. 688; 15 P. (2d) 660, affirmed.

from a judgment refusing a writ of prohibition to prevent further prosecution of an action begun
by substituted service.
APPEAL

362

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court

289 U.S.

Mr. Frank E. Holman, with whom Messrs. Elmer E.
Todd, William M. Allen, and Clarence R. Innis were on
.the. brief, for appellant.
Mr. Parker W. Kimball, with whom Mr. Herbert W.
Erskine was on the brief, for appellees.
MR. JUSTIcE ROBERTS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is an appeal from a final decree of the Supreme
Court of the State of Washington refusing a writ of prohibition to prevent the further prosecution of an action
pending in the Superior Court of Spokane County.
Bond & Goodwin & Tucker, a Delaware corporation,
qualified in 1926 to do business in the State of Washington, pursuant to the applicable statute.1 One Duncan
Shaw of Seattle, was appointed resident agent for the acceptance of service of process, as the law required. Irv
1929 the company withdrew from the State, ceased to
transact business there, and filed formal notice of withdrawal with the Secretary of State. The corporation was
dissolved in acbordance with te laws of Delaware, but
the appointment of Sha:w as statutory agent was never
revoked. In 1929 he removed to California. In 1932 one
Monroe commenced a civil action in the Superior Court,
naming Bond & Goodwin & Tucker as one of the defendants, and insttucted the sheriff to serve the summons and
complaint upon the Secretary of. State. The return and
proof of service show that this was done by handing the
papers to an assistant Secretary. Neither the summons
and complaint nor any copy of them, nor any notice touching the same, were forwarded to Bond & Goodwin &
Tucker by the Secretary of State or anyone else. No other
form of service was made.
I Section 3854, Remington's- Compiled Statutes, 1922.

WASHINGTON v. SUPERIOR COURT.
361

Opinion of the Court.

The appellant appeared specially and moved to quash
the service. The motion was overruled, Thereupon application was made to the Supreme Court of the State for
a writ of prohibition. The present appeal is from, the
judgment refusing the writ.
The appellant urges that the statute denies the due
process and equal protection guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment. The first contention rests upon the
fact that substituted service upon the Secretary of State
is validated without any requirement that he shall give
the defendant notice of the pendency of the action; the
second is bottomed upon the circumstance that a different
procedure requiring the Secretary of State to send notice
to defendants is prescribed as respects suits against domestic corporations having no office within the State, and
foreign insurance companies.
The statute requires a foreign corporation to appoint
and register a resident agent empowered to accept service
of process in any action or suit pertaining to the property,
business or transactions of slich corporation within the
State. The agent may be changed by filing with the Secretary of State a new appointment. The portion of the
Act which gives rise to the present controversy is:
in the event such foreign corporation shall withdraw from this state and cease to transact business therein
it shall continue to keep and maintain such agent within
this state upon whom service of process, pleadings and
papers may be made, until the statute of limitations shall
have. run against anyone bringing an action against said
corporation, which accrued prior to its withdrawal from
this state. In case said corporation shall revoke the au-.
thority of its designated agent after its withdrawal from
this state and prior to the time when the statutes of limitations would have run against causes of action accruing
against it, then in that event service of process,, pleadings
and papers in such actions may be made upon the secre-

364.

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 US.

"'tary of state of the state of Washington, and the same
shall be held as due and sufficient service-upon such corporation."
We are told that when the appellant appointed Shaw
and registered him as its agent to accept service, it had
complied with all conditions requisite to its lawful transaction of business within the State; that the provision
for another sort'of substituted service in the event of
Shaw's removal from the State, -or the revocation of his
appointment without registration. of another agent, is
permissible only if it requires notice to the defendant;
that by qualifying as a foreign corporation appellant did
not- consent to the arbitrary and unconstitutional condition that it might be cast in judgment without notice of
suit. We think, however, that the position is unsound.
The State need not have admitted the corporation to
.do business within its borders. Bank of Augusta v. Earle,
13 Pet. 519; Lafayette Insurance Co. v. French, 18 How.
404, 407. Admission might be conditioned upon the requirement of substituted service upon a person to be designated either by the corporation, St. Clair v. Cox, 106
U.S. 350, 356, or by the State itself, Mutual Reserve Assn.
v. Phelps, 190 U.S. 147, 158, or might, as here, be upon the
terms that if the corporation had failed to appoint or
maintain an agent service should be made upon a state
officer, American Railway Express Co. v. Royster Guano
Co., 273 U.S.. 274, 280. The provision that the liability
thus to be served should continue after withdrawal from
the State afforded a lawful and constitutional protection
of persons who had there transacted business with the appellant. American Railway Express Co. v. Kentucky,
273 U.S. 269, 274.
It has repeatedly been said that qualification ot a foreign corporation in accordance with the statutes perrhit*ring its entry into the Stateconstitutes an assent on its

WASHINGTON v. SUPERIOR COURT.
361

365

Opinion of the Court.

part to all the reasonable conditions imposed. 'Lafayette
Insurance Co. v. French, supra, 408; St. Clair v. Cox,
supra, 356;. Connecticut Mutual Life' Insurance Co. v.
Spratley, 172 U.S. 602, 614; Old Wayne Mut. Life Assn.
v. McDonough, 204 U.S. 8, 22; Commercial Mutual Accident Co. v. Davis, 213 U.S. 245, 254. It is true that the
corporation's entry may not be conditioned upon surrender
of constitutional rights, as was attempted in the cases on
which the appellant relies. Terral v. Burke Construction
Co., 257 U.S. 529; Fidelity & Deposit Co. v. Tafoya, 270
U.S. 426; Frost Trucking Co. v. RailroadCommission, 271
U.S. 583; Hanover Fire Insurance Co. v. Harding, 272
U.S. 494. And for this reason a State may not exact- arbitrary and unreasonable terms respecting suits against
foreign corporations as the price of admission, Power Mfg.
Co. v. Saunders, 274 U.S. 490. But the statute here chalenged has no such operation. It goes no further than to
require that the corporation may be made to answer just
claims asserted against it according to law. By appointing a new agent when Shaw ceased to be a resident of the
State the appellant could have assured itself of notice of
any action. The statute informed the company that if
it elected not to appoint a successor to Shaw the Secretary of State would by law become its agent for the purpose of service. The burden lay upon the appellant to
make such arrangement for notice as was thought desirable. There is no denial of due process in the omission to
require the corporation's agent to give it such notice.
The power 'of the State altogether to exclude the corporation, and the consequent ability to condition its entrance into the State, distinguishes this case from those
involving substituted service upon individuals, Flexner
v. Farson,248 U.S. 289; Wuchter v. Pizzutti, 276 U.S. 13,
whose entrance into a State may render them amenable to
action there, only if the statute providing for substituted

366

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 1S.

service incorporates reasonable provision for giving the
defendant notice of the jnitiation of litigation, Hess v.
Pawloski, 274 U.S. 352. - The fact that appellant qualified
to do business in the State and complied With the registration statute also distinguishes cases of attempted service
-on a state official pursiant to a statute with which the
defendant corporation had never complied, and where
at the time of suit it had removed from the state and was
transacting no business there. Old Wayne Mutual Life
Assn. v. McDonough, supra; ConsolidatodFlour Mills Co.
v: Muegge, 12EOkla. 295; 260 Pac. 745; 278 U.S. 559.
Appellant suggests that it was denied due process because the Act demands service upon the Secretary of
State, whereas the summons and complaint were handed
to an assistant Secretary. Tl~e State court has held the
service, sufficient since thd assistant Secretary in contemplation of law was the Secretary. This construction of
the statute raises no federal question.
Complaintfis made because other legislation validates
substituted service on domestic corporations having no
office in Washington, and on foreign insurance companies registered to do business therein, only if the Secretary
of State sevds notice to the defendant. It is said that a
failure to make similar provision with respect to other
foreign corporations deprives the apjellant of the equal
protection of the laws. The contention is without merit.
The-legislature was entitled to classify corporations in this
respect, and a mere difference in the method of prescribing
how substituted service should be accomplished works no
unjust or unequal treatment of the appellant. Compare
National Union Fire Ins. Co. v. Wanberg, 260 U.S. 71.
The judgment is
Affirmed.

