TEXAS & PACIFIC RY. CO. v. U.S.
620

Syllabus.

In a suit for unlawful exaction the liability of a collector is not official but personal. Sage v. United States,
250 U.S. 33; Smietanka v. Indiana Steel Co., 257 U.S. 1;
Graham & Foster v. Goodcell, 282 U.S. 409, 430. And for
this reason a, judgment in a suit to which he was a
party does not conclude the Commissioner or the United
States. Bankers PocahontasCoal Co. v. Burnet, 287 U.S.
308, 311. We think, however, that where a question has
been adjudged as between a taxpayer and the Government or its official agent, the Commissioner, the Collector, being an official inferior in authority, and acting
under them, is in such privity with them that he is
estopped by the judgment. See Second National Bank of
Saginaw v. Woodworth, 54 F. (2d) 672; Bertelsen v.
White,.58 F. (2d) 792.
4. These views render unnecessary any consideiation of
the merits of the controversy.
Judgment affirmed.
TEXAS & PACIFIC RAILWAY CO. ET AL. v. UNITED
STATES ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.

No. 1. Argued October 12, 13, 1931.-Reargued October 11, 12,
1932.-Decided May 29, 1933.
1. Carriers reaching the port of New Orleans with their own rails
and reaching Texas ports through connections with which they
maintained through routes and joint rates, made the same, or
substantially the same, rates on export, import and coastwise traffic
between New Orleans and inland points as were charged between
those points and the Texas ports, although the rail haul to and
from New Orleans was longer. Ocean freights were the same for
all of these ports; and the object of the rail carri(rs in equalizing
their rates was to protect their business, of the classes named,
from the competition of other railroads whose lines tapped the
Texas ports. The charges were neither unreasonably high nor so

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Syllabus.

289 U.S.

low as to be non-compensatory. The Interstate Commerce Commission, upon findings of undue preference to New Orleans and
undue prejudice to the Texas ports, entered orders which prescribed minimum differentials in favor of the latter where the
New Orleans haul was by more than 25 per cent. the longer.
Held that the orders should be set aside.
2. The provision of § 3 (1) of the Interstate Commerce Act forbidding any carrier to give any undue or unreasonable preference
or advantage to any particular "locality" or to subject any particular "locality" to any undue or unreasonable prejudice or disadvantage, does not apply to seaports in respect of import, export
and coastwise traffic in relation to which they are in no sense points
of origin or destination but are merely gateways through which
the traffic passes from rail to water carrier and vice versa. Pp.
638, 644.
3. Carriers in competition for export and import business, may,
within the zone of-reasonableness prescribed by the statute, adjust
their rates so as to retain the desired traffic for their own lines,
and in so doing may transport such shipments, although not made
on through bills, at rates below those charged for domestic traffic
between the same points. P. 636.
4. The Act was passed for the protection of those who pay or bear
the rates. The standards it establishes are transportation standards, not criteria of the general welfare. P. 638.
5. The word "localities," therefore, has its proper office as denoting
the origin or destination of traffic and the shipping, producing,
and consuming areas affected by rates and practices of carriers.
The term was, however, not intended to cover a junction, a way
station, a gateway, or a port, as respects traffic passing through it.
P. 638.
6. The Interstate Commerce Commission has no authority to readjust
rates and prescribe differentials for the purpose of building up one
gateway or port to the injury of another. Pp. 639, 646.
7. The legislative history of the Act to Regulate Commerce, 1887,
and of the Hepburn Act, 1906, shows that it was not the intention
of Congress to cover ports as such among the "localities" given
regulatory protection. Pp. 639, 641.
8. Administrative construction of § 3 before and since the passage
of the Transportation Act is found not to justify the assertion that
Congress, by not amending the section, had acquiesced in adjustment of rates on exports and imports in the interest of ports as
such. P. 641.

TEXAS & PACIFIC RY. CO. v. U.S.
627.

Counsel for Parties.

9. Where a statutory body such as the Interstate Commerce Commission assumes a power plainly not granted, no amount of such
interpretation is binding on the courts. P. 640.
10. A carrier may not be held responsible for undue prejudice or
preference to a locality in respect of rates unless both of the localities affected are upon its lines or it effectively participates in rates
to both so that it may have the choice of raising one rate, lowering
the other, or altering both. Earlier decisions distinguished. Pp.
646, 651.
42 F. (2d) 281, reversed.

APPEAL from a decree of the District Court (three
judges) dismissing bills brought by two railroad companies to enjoin enforcement of orders of the Interstate
Commerce Commission.
Mr. T. J. Freeman, with whom Messrs. T. D. Gresham,
Esmond Phelps and Robert L. W. Thompson were on

the brief, for the Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. et al., appellants,
on the original argument. Mr. Charles M. Spence, with
whom Messrs. T. J. Freeman, T. D. Gresham, Esmond
Phelps, A. L. Burford, R. E. Milling, Jr., and Robert L.
W. Thompson were on the brief, for the Texas & Pacific
Ry. Co., on reargument.
Mr. Luther M. Walter, with whom Messrs. John S.
Burchmore and Nuel D. Belnp were on the brief, for the
New Orleans Joint Traffic Bureau et al., appellants.
Mr. Wylie M. Barrow, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General of Louisiana, with whom Mr.-Percy Saint, Attorney General, was on the brief,-for the State of Louisiana,
intervener-appellant, on the original argument. Mr.
Barrow al,-reargued the cause, and with Mr. Gaston L.
Porterie,the -then Attorney General of Louisiana, filed a
brief on behalf of the State.
Mr. Edward R. Schowalter filed a brief on behalf of the
Louisiana Public Service Commission, intervener-appellant.

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

Mr. John St. Paul, Jr., with whom Messrs. Win. C.
Dufour and Leonard B. Levy were on the brief, for the
Board of Commissioners of the Port of New Orleans,
intervener-appellant.

Mr. Daniel W. Knowlton, with whom Solicitor General
Thacher and Assistant to the Attorney General O'Brian,
were on the brief, for the United States and Interstate
Commerce Commission, appellees.
Mr. R. S. Outlaw, with whom Messrs. C. S. Burg, Fred
L. Wallace, G. B. Ross, E. E. McInnis, and Joseph M.
Bryson were on the brief, for the Missouri-Kansas-Texas
R. Co. et al., appellees.
Mr. R. C. Fulbright, with whom . Messrs. James V.
Allred, Attorney General of Texas, Elbert Hooper, Assistant Attorney General, Mart Royston, Fred N. Oliver, and
John C. White were on the brief, for the Galveston
Chamber of Commerce and the State of Texas et al.,
intervener-appellees.
By leave of Court, Messrs. Samuel Silverman and A.
Henry Walter filed a brief on behalf of the City and Port
of Boston, as amici curiae.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The Galveston Commercial Association complained to
the Interstate Commerce Commission that carload commodity rates on import, export and coastwise traffic between a portion of western classification territory and Galveston were unreasonable, and their relationship with
those to and from Houston, Texas City, Beaumont, Port
Arthur, and Orange, Texas, and New Orleans, La., was
unduly prejudical to Galveston.1 The claim of unreason'The complaint also attacked rates to and from a portion of the
State of Illinois and the port of Mobile, Ala. The Commission, how-

TEXAS & PACIFIC RY. CO. v. U.S.
627

Opinion of the Court.

ableness was abandoned as was also the assertion of discrimination in favor of the other Texas ports. The latter intervened and prayed the same relief as might be accorded Galveston in respect of rate relationship with New
Orleans. The issue was therefore narrowed to one of
prejudice to them and preference of New Orleans. Railroads serving the Texas ports and various shippers and
commercial bodies intervened in support of the complaint;
interests connected with the port of New Orleans and
shippers intervened in opposition.
The Commission found that export and import rates
on fourteen commodities from or to points in Arkansas,
Texas, Oklahoma, southern Kansas, and Louisiana west
of the Mississippi River, were unduly prejudicial to Galveston. and unduly preferential of New Orleans. In all
instances where the distance to Galveston is less than the
distance to New Orleans by not over one hundred miles it
permitted equal rates; but for differences in distance exceeding one hundred miles it prescribed certain named
minimum differentials in favor of Galveston.'
On rehearing the prior decision was modified by including the other Texas ports with Galveston in the finding of undue prejudice; substituting a twenty-five per
cent. difference in distance for the 100-mile basis; exempting from the scope of the order rates to or from
points on the Texas & Pacific and the Louisiana Railroad
& Navigation Company; ' exempting rates on petroleum
ever, did not deal with these, and the averments of the conplaint in
this respect are immaterial to the decision of the case.
1100 I.C.C. 110.
The Louisiana Railroad & Navigation Company was at the time
of the earlier hearings operated under a single ownership with the
Louisiana Railway and Navigation Company of Texas; and the two
are referred to by the Commission as the L. R. & N. System. Prior
to the institution of suit in the court below both lines were acquired
by the Louisiana & Arkansas Railway Company. The latter joined
with the other two as plaintiffs in the District Court. In the opinion
the System will for convenience be called the L. R. & N.

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

and its products; and making certain other changes not
here material.4
The proceeding was later reopened for the purpose of
deciding whether the Texas & Pacific and the L. R. & N.
should continue to be exempted. The Commission reversed its previous finding and included them within its
orders.5 Both carriers filed bills in the District Court
to enjoin the enforcement of all the orders except in so
far as the second exempted them from the finding of
preference and prejudice. The cases were consolidated,
and upon final hearing before three judges the bills were
dismissed.! The plaintiffs, Texas & Pacific and L. R. &
N., and also the State of Louisiana, the New Orleans
Traffic Bureau and other intervenors appealed.
The Texas ports are served by some half dozen lines
which either themselves or through their connections
reach the areas of origin or destination embraced in the
Commission's order. Generally speaking their routes
trend north rather than east of Galveston. The Southern
Pacific is the only carrier serving both Galveston and New
Orleans. Texas is also connected with New Orleans by
the Gulf Coast Lines, by the Texas & Pacific, extending
east from El Paso through Dallas and Fort Worth to
Shreveport, La., and thence southeast to New Orleans,
and by the L. R. & N., which con' cts eastern Texas
and western Louisiana with that T, rt. Several other
lines extend between New Orleans and western Louisiana,
Arkansas, Kansas, and Oklahoma.
With minor and immaterial exceptions the carriers
serving the Texas ports and New Orleans have for many
years equalized the import and export commodity car-load
rates betweei the territory embraced in the Commission's
orders and Galveston and New Orleans. The gravamen
'128 I.C.C. 349.
5 160 I.C.C. 345.

842 F. (2d) 281.

TEXAS & PACIFIC RY. CO. v. U.S.
627

Opinion of the Court.

of the complaint is that in many instances the distance to
New Orleans is so much greater than that to the Texas
ports, and the increased haul so important a part of the
service rendered, that this factor should be reflected in a
fixed differential in rates. The Commission's order prescribing differentials is challenged only in so far as it compels the Texas & Pacific and the L. R. & N. to establish
rates to New Orleans higher by the amount of the fixed
differentials than those charged between the same interior
points and the Texas ports. Inasmuch as the assertion of
unreasonableness was withdrawn and the Comimission
made no finding that the Galveston rates were unreasonable, the prohibitions of § 1 of the Act to regulate commerce, as amended, are not involved.' The evidence failed
to show that the rates of the Texas & Pacific and the
L. R. & N. on export and import shipments to and from
New Orleans were not compensatory. The Commission
refused to find that they were so low as to cast a burden
on other traffic. There was therefore no basis for an order
fixing minimum reasonable rates under § 15 (1) of the.
Act.' The parties agree that authority for the order must
be found in § 3 (1), which is:
"It shall be unlawful for any common carrier .
to make or give any undue or unreasonable preference or
advantage to any particular person, company, firm, corporation, or locality, or any particular description of
traffic, in any respect whatsoever, or to subject any particular person, company, firm, corporation, or locality, or
any particular description of traffic, to any undue or
unreasonable prejudice or disadvantage in any respect
whatsoever." '
The appellants contend that in the circumstances disclosed the ports as such are not localities preferred or
'U.S.C. Tit. 49, § 1.
'U.S.C. Tit. 49, § 15 (1).

'U.S.C. Tit. 49, § 3 (1).

634

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 US.

prejudiced, but that if they may be so denominated the
Texas & Pacific and the L. R. & N. can not be held
responsible for any undue prejudice to the Texas ports,
since they do not reach those ports with their own lines
or control the rates to or from them. They also assert
that the orders violate Article I, § 9, of the Constitution,
which prohibits any regulation of commerce giving preference to ports of one State over those of another; are
without support in the evidence, and arbitrary.
The cause has been twice argued; it was first presented
at the October Term, 1931, and on account of the importance of the questions involved a reargument was ordered and was had at the October Term, 1932.10 Statement of certain facts and settled principles will tend to
clarify and define the issues presented.
The traffic with which we are concerned does not move
on through bills of lading, but the movement is, nevertheless, from points of origin to a foreign or coastal
destination, or vice versa, and is, therefore, essentially
through transportation. Compare Binderup v. Pathe
Exchange, 263 U.S. 291, 309. As the Commission said
in this case, "A port is neither the destination nor the
origin of traffic passing through it. It levies toll on the
traffic, in substantially the same manner as do common
carriers, in its charges for the use of its facilities in the
transfer of traffic between the rail and water carriers."
"This

cause is restored to the docket for reargument upon all

questions involved, and the attention of counsel is invited to the question whether the respective relations of the Louisiana ports and the
Texas ports to the export, import, and coastwise traffic affected; and
to the rates condemned, by the orders in controversy are such that
the Louisiana ports may be regarded as localities unduly or unreasonably preferred by such rates within the sense and meaning of sections 3 (1) and 15 (1) of the interstate commerce act and that the
Texas ports may be regarded as localities unduly or unreasonably
prejudiced by such rates within the sense and meaning of the same
sections." Journal, October Term, 1931, p. 342.

TEXAS & PACIFIC RY. CO. v. U.S.
627

Opinion of the Court.

Although the shipper in the first instance consigns the
commodity to the port and a separate contract is made
for ocean carriage, the through rate none the less consists
of the rail rate to the port, plus the ocean freight, which
is the same from all Gulf ports. 1
The choice of route is determined solely by the rail
rates from or to the ports. If these are equalized the
shipper has an option; but if they are disparate the route
through the port taking the higher rate is necessarily excluded. A very slight differential in the rail rate, in some
instances as little as a fraction of a cent per hundred
pounds, will divert the traffic through the port so advantaged. The application of a distance scale to the rail rate
automatically precludes shipment through the more
distant port.
Long prior to the passage of the Act to regulate commerce the railroads, recognizing this situation, and desiring to hold to their own lines the traffic running to ports
which they served, equalized rates through the ports
reached by their own lines with those maintained by their
rivals to other ports, or established differentials in favor
of their own ports in order to retain a portion of the competitive export business. And a carrier serving two ports
has for like reason fixed an equal or lower rate to the more
distant of the two, solely to meet the competition of rivals
who reached it by more direct routes. These practices
have not been indulged either to aid or to harm a port as
such, but solely to obtain or retain business for the carrier's own line.' 2 With the abstract fairness of such ad' The evidence shows that the regular steamship lines make the
same rates to foreign destinations from all Gulf ports. Tramp steamers occasionally cut the conventional rate, but this may happen at
any port, and the opportunity to obtain such a reduced rate does
not depend upon the choice of port through which shipment shall
be made.

"New York Produce Exchange v. B. & 0. R. Co., 7 I.C.C. 612;

In re Differential Rates, 11 I.C.C. 13.

636

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

justment neither the Commission nor the courts have any
concern. This is not to say, however, that the rates promulgated are beyond the Commission's jurisdiction.
While that body has no control over the ocean rate, it has
power to compel a reasonable charge for the rail haul.
Compare Armour Packing Co. v. United States, 153 Fed.
1; News Syndicate Co. v. New York Central R. Co., 275
U. S. 179, 186-7.-- As the carriers are in competition for
the business they may, within the zone of reasonableness,14 prescribed by the statute, adjust their rates so as
to obtain or retain the desired traffic for their own lines.
Interstate Commerce Comm'n v. Alabama Midland Ry.
Co., 74 Fed. 715, 723-4; 168 U.S. 144, 172-3; Skinhier &
Eddy Corp. v. United States, 249 U.S. 557, 564; United
States v. Illinois Central R. Co., 263 U.S. 515, 522.
The theory of the Act is that the carriers in initiating
rates may adjust them to competitive conditions, and
that such action does not amount to undue discrimination; Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v. Interstate Commerce
Comm'n, 162 U.S. 197. There thL, charging of rates on
import traffic moving from a port on through bills of
lading, much lower than those fixed for domestic transportation, was-held not to amount as matter of law to discrimination forbidden by § 3. The carrier showed, in
justification of the lower rates on import traffic, that unless these were permitted water and rail-and-water competition would divert the traffic away from the port of
New Orleans and the carrier's lines extending from that
In Chamber of Commerce of New York v. N. Y. C. & H. R.R.
Co., 24 I.C.C. 55, 74, the Commission said: "We have no jurisdiction
of the ocean rates and must deal with this question as though the
ports were destinations instead of gateways."
"Since 1887, § 1 has forbidden that an export or import rate be
unreasonably high; and since the Transportation Act, 1920, the Commission has been charged to see that the rate be not so low as to

render the receipts of the business unremunerative.

TEXAS & PACIFIC RY. CO. v. U.S.
627

637

Opinion of the Court.

port. Since that decision it has been recognized. that
export and import shipments, although not made on
through bills, might lawfully be transported at rates below those charged for domestic traffic between" the same
points.15 The same purpose not to stife competition justifies relief under § 4 from the prohibition against
charging the same or less for a longer than for a shorter
haul. Interstate Commerce Comm'n v. Baltimore & Ohio
R. Co., 145 U.S. 263, 276; Interstate Commerce Comm'n
v. Alabama Midland Ry. Co., 168 U.S. 144, 164; Louisville & N. R. Co. v. Behlmer, 175 U.S. 648, 671;
Intermountain Rate Cases, 234 U.S. 476, 483-485. And
relief under the Fourth Section has been granted on this
ground in respect of export and import rates. Export
and Import Rates, 169 I.C.C. 13.
While the carriers may, therefore, meet competition
by equalizing rates or maintaining differentials both to
interior points and to ports, they may not adjust their
rates with the motive of injuring or aiding a shipper, a
particular kind of traffic, or a locality, for so to do is to
depart from the transportation standard, conformity to
which the Act contemplates, and substitute others which
are prohibited. A tariff published for the purpose of destroying a market or building up one, of diverting traffic
from a particular place to the injury of that place, or in
aid of some other, is unlawful; and obviously, what the
carrier may not lawfully do, the Commission may not
compel. Southern Pac. Co. v. Interstate Commerce
Comm'n, 219 U.S. 433, 444; Interstate Commerce
Comm'n v. Diffenbaugh, 222 U.S. 42, 46; Ellis v. Interstate Commerce Comm'n, 237 U.S. 434, 445; United
States v. Illinois Central R. Co., 263 U.S. 515, 524; At'New
Orleans Board of Trade v. Illinois Cent. R. Co., 23 I.C.C.
465; In re Import and Domestic Rates, 36 I.C.C. 389; In re Import
and Domestic Rates-Clay, 39 I.C.C. 132.

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 US.

chison T. & S. F. Ry. v. Interstate Commerce Comm'n,
190 Fed. 591; Anchor Coal Co. v. United States, 25 F.
(2d) 462, 471.16

1. In the light of the facts exhibited by the record and
the principles underlying the Act, are ports, in respect of
export, import and coastwise traffic, localities susceptible
of undue preference or prejudice within the meaning of
§ 3? The purpose of §§ 2, 3 and 4, as exhibited by committee reports and explained by those in charge of
the bill in Congress, was to prevent unjust discrimination
resulting from existing practices. Similar commodities
were, without reason or excuse, carried at different rates.
Shippers similarly situated were put on unequal terms.
Producers and consumers at points of origin and destination were prejudiced by unequal treatment in the matter
of rates or service. Obviously localities of origin or destination might also be prejudiced by undue discrimination.
One of the most prevalent and reprehensible practices at
which the Act was aimed was the charging of a less or
an equal rate for a longer haul upon the same line or
route. The Act was passed for the protection of those
who pay or bear the rates. The standards it establishes
are transportation standards, not criteria of general welfare. The word "localities," therefore, has its proper
office as denoting the origin or destination of traffic and
the shipping, producing, and consuming areas affected by
rtes and practices of carriers. The term was, however,
not intended to cover a junction, a way station, a gateway, or a port, as respects traffic passing through it.
Considered as points of origin or destinatioh any or
all of these are localities within the purview of the section.
"The Commission has recognized the same principle. Ashland Fire

Brick Co. v. Southern Ry.Co., 22 I.C.C. 115, 121; Chamber of Commerce of New York v. N. Y. C. & H. R.R. Co., 24 I.C.C. 55, 63, 70,
75; Maritime Assn. of Boston v. Ann Arbor R.Co., 95 I.C.C. 539, 565.

TEXAS & PACIFIC RY. CO. v. U.S.
627

639

Opinion of the Court.

All of them may, moreover, though not considered as

localities served, be involved in acts of discrimination.
The situation here presented furnishes *a close analogy
to proportional rates or combination rates, and with respect to either of these the charge on shipments through
a given gateway or port may discriminate against traffic
passing through another so as to deprive a shipper of his
right of choice of route through either.17 In such case,
however, the discrimination operates upon the shipper,
not upon the port. There are through rates, proportional
rates, and combination rates, applicable to traffic routed
through river crossings and gateways. It seems too plain
for argument that the Commission has no authority, upon
a showing by a gateway that under an existing tariff too
much traffic passes through another, or too little through
it, to readjust the rates and prescribe differentials so as
to divert traffic through the complaining gateway. The
interests and industries of a gateway are not entitled thus
to obtain a benefit reflected from additional traffic which
would be diverted by such action of the Commission.
We perceive no difference in principle as to export or
import traffic routed through ports.
The legislative history of the Act demonstrates that
Congress did not intend to forbid the equalization of
export or import rates by lines serving several ports in
order to meet competition. These rates, it was said, were
not to be proportioned to the respective distances between
inland origins or destinations and the ports."8 Both
, Mobile Chamber of Commerce v. Mobile & Ohio R. Co., 32
I.C.C. 272; Astoria v. Spokane, Portland & Seattle Ry. Co., 38
I.C.C. 16.
"See the explanation of Senator Cullom, chairman of the Committee having charge of the original bill, Cong. Rec., 49th Cong., 1st
Sess., Vol. 17, Part 4, pp. 3471, 3472. House proceedings, Cong.
Rec., Vol. 17, Part, 7, pp. 7277, 7294, 7298. And see the Report of
the Committee of the Senate, Report No. 46, 49th Cong., 1st Sess.,

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

equalizations and differentials had for some time been
maintained in the rates to various Atlantic ports. Congress was aware of this, and had no intention of interfering with the maintenance of these rate adjustments.
Appellees say, however, that the Commission has
always treated ports as localities within the meaning of
§ 3, and exercised the power to abate discrimination by
prescribing differentials in export rates. They add that
though the Act has been several times amended, this section has been retained in its original form and Congress
has thus sanctioned the Commission's interpretation.
Where a statutory body has assumed a power plainly not
granted, no amount of such interpretation is binding upon
the courts. Interstate Commerce Comm'n v. C., N. 0. &
T. P. Ry. Co., 167i U.S. 479, 510. This we think is the
situation here presented, for, as we have said, the word
localities is used with reference to places of origin and
p. 57, referring to the investigation by a committee of the British
Parliament:
"Other important conclusions were reached by the Committee a
follows:
"'That a system of equal mileage rates, or charges in proportion
to distance, was inexpedient and impracticable for the following
reasons:
"'(a) It would prevent railway companies from lowering their
fares and rates, so as to compete with traffic by sea, by canal, or by
a shorter or otherwise cheaper railway, and would thus deprive the
public of the benefit of competition, and the company of a legitimate
source of profit.
In short, to inpose equal mileage on companies would be to
deprive the public of the benefit of much of the competition which
now exists, or has existed, to raise the charges on the public in many
cases where the companies o-ow find it to their interest to lower them,
and to perpetuate menopolies in carriage, trade, and manufacture in
favor of those rates and places 'which are nearest or least expensive
where the varying charges of the companies now create competition.'

TEXAS & PACIFIC RY. CO. v. U.S.
627

Opinion of the Court.

destination; its employment is not intended to permit the
Commission, in its discretion, to favor or hamper a community having no such relation to the service of transportation.
Moreover we do not find that any such settled construction had been adopted or that Congress intended to sanction it. With few and occasional exceptions the Commission has not until a recent date essayed to prescribe
differentials in export rates. Prior to the Hepburn
Amendment in 1906, port differentials were considered
in three cases.'" In the first certain carriers applied for
leave to equalize their export rates to Boston with those
charged to New York. The petitions were dismissed on
the ground that the Commission should not authorize
what the carriers might lawfully do without permission.
In the second, a New York trade association complained
that the maintenance of differentials in export rates to
Philadelphia and Baltimore voluntarily established by the
carriers worked undue prejudice against New York. The
Commission found they did not result in undue prejudice;
though it treated the ports as localities which would be
entitled to relief under a proper showing. In the third
case shippers and carriers serving, north Atlantic ports
submitted to the Commission the question of the fairness
of the current differentials, and that body acted merely
as an arbitrator and not in its official capacity.
The legislativd history of the Hepburn amendment discloses a clear intent not to confer power to, circumscribe
the adjustment of expot and import rates by the carriers to meet dompetition 20 The expressionswied disclose
"' Export Trade of Boston, 1 I.C.C. 24 (1887); New.York Produce
Exchange v. B. & 0. R. Co., 7 I.C.C. 612 (1898); In the Matter of
Differential Rates, 11 I.C.C. 13 (1905).
" Cong. Rec., 59th Cong., 1st Sess., Vol. 40, Part 2, pp. 1777, 1788;
Part 3, pp. 2084, 2085, 2086, 2247, 2248; Part 4, p. 3792; Part 5,
p. 4111; Part 7, p. 6683.
15450o-38----1

Representative Mann, a member of the

642

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
289 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

no thought that the Commission had held the contrary. 2'
Between the dates of the Hepburn amendment and the
Transportation Act, 1920, the Commission had before it
two cases relevant to the power to prescribe port differentials.2 In the first the Commission recognized its lack
of power to deal with the relationship of the rates.2 3 In
committee, said, in explaining the purposes of the bill before the
House (Cong. Rec., Vol. 40, Part 3, p. 2247): ".

.

.

We do not

give them the power to say which port shall be built up, which city
shall be preferred; we leave open the competitive forces of the railways. The old bills which we had sought to stifle competition; we
leave competition in force. The railroads running south, west of the
Mississippi, and the railroads runing east, north of the Ohio, will
have to fight out the question as to which road shall carry the grain
for export abroad."
And again: "It will not give the Commission the power to determine differentials, the power to say whether grain from the Northwest shall be shipped for export by way of the Gulf ports or the
north Atlantic ports, the 71ower to destroy the law of competition .

.

There is much more to the same effect.
'Report No. 591, 59th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 3: "As but little complaint, has been made to the committee concerning classification, it
was not deemed wise at this time to suggest new legislation upon that
subject. So, too, with the question of the relation of rates. The
committee has not deemed it wise at this time to suggest new legislation to change existing law upon that subject. It is one of very great
importance-interesting, however, as a: rule, to certain particular
communities rather than to the public at large. It involves conflicts
between towns and cities rather than the public generally, and it
relates more to the building up of certain local interests of a local
nature rather than to the interests of the people of the whole
countty."
Chamber of Commerce of N. Y. v. N. Y. C. & H. R.R. Co., 24

I.C.C. 55; Astoria v. S. P. & S. Ry. Co., 38 I.C.C. 16.
0 It said (24 I.C.C. 75): ".

.

. the Boston interests join in the

contention that the railroads should so adjust their rates as to insure
movement of a certain or substantial part of the traffic through those
ports. Neither the carriers nor the Commission has any right to
undertake to so apportion the traffic between rival ports or cities.

TEXAS & PACIFIC RY. CO. v. U.S.
627

Opinion of the Court.

the second the complaint was that Astoria was prejudiced
by exaction of higher export rates from origin territory
than those to Seattle and Tacoma. Though the haul to
Astoria was longer, the Commission required equalization.
The Commission in this case asserted its authority to deal
wish export rate relationship solely in the interests of the
affected ports. Whether the order made was. within the
competence of that body or not, the important fact is
that it did not prescribe differentials, but in the interest
of competition opened the three ports to export shipment
on equal terms.2 4
We think that at the date of the passage of the Transportation Act, no such administrative practice had been
established as to require the conclusion that in failing to
amend § 3 the Congress approved any asserted power to
adjust export and import rates in the interests of the
ports alone.
It remains to determine whether since 1920 there has
been such a uniform and repeated assertion of this authority as would constrain us to adopt the principle. The
instances in which the Commission has considered export
and import traffic fall into several classes: First, where
shippers' complaints concerning port differentials established by carriers were dismissed,25 or were found justified
and prejudice ordered removed; secondly, where, on
the Pennsylvania and the Baltimore & Ohio have the lawful
right to maintain lower rates to and from Baltimore and Philadelphia

than they contemporaneously maintain to and from New York. They
would probably also have the right to make these rates the same to
and from all of those ports if they chose to do so. The Boston lines
have an undoubted right to make such rates to and from Boston as
their interests demand, subject only to the limitations that the rates
must be reasonable;
.
'Compare, however, Galveston Commercial Assn. v. A. & S. Ry.
Co., 109 I.C.C. 114, 125.
Cotton and Cotton Linters to Pacific Coast Ports, 69 I.C.C. 735;
Sugar Cases, 1922, 81 I.C.C. 448.
" Canned Goods, Iron & Steel from Gulf Ports, 91 I.C.C. 623.

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 US.

shippers' complaint against -differentials, equalization of
rates was ordered; 2 thirdly, where on complaint by a
port differentials voluntarily established by the carriers
were altered.2 ' These are not relevant to the present
controversy. In two decisions rendered prior to the instant one the Commission, on complaint of port interests,
exercised the supposed power to compel the establishment
of differentials as between ports. 2 9 But we are not
persuaded these rulings form a body of administrative
action sufficient to overthrow the evident purpose of § 3.
We conclude that ports as such are not localities with
respect to export and import traffic routed through them,
susceptible of undue preference or prejudice within the
intent of the Act.
While the Commission's jurisdiction of port rate relation was fully. argued, the appellees seek to support the
orders under the power to abate discrimination between
persons and shippers. The argument is'based upon averments of the complaint as to prejudice of persons at Galveston. There is, however, no allegation that shippers
or consignees in the interior, are prejudiced or preferred
by the equalization of the New Orleans rates with those
to the Texas ports, and the Commission made no finding
of preference or prejudice of shippers or consignees, or
localities of origin and destination. ° It compared at great
Inland Empire Shippers League v. Director General, 59 I.C.C.
321.
"Maritime Assn. v. AnnArbor R. Co., 95 I.C.C. 539; 126 I.C.C.
199.
Coffee from Galveston and other Gulf Ports, 58 I.C.C. 716; 64
I.C.C. 26; Charleston Traffic Bureau v. Alabama G. S. R. Co., 89
I.C.C. 501. In a number of other cases the Commission has indicated
a belief that it possessed such authority.
"In a dissenting opinion Commissioner Hall said (128 I.C.C. 399):
"In deciding this strife between Texas ports and Louisiana ports,
confined as it is to import, export, and coastwise rates, the producers
and shippers who pay those rates seem to have been lost from sight."

TEXAS & PACIFIC RY. CO. v. U.S.
627

Opinion of the Court.

length the facilitieswof' the ports, their volume of traffic,
the relative growth bf their export and import business,
.their respective steamship facilities, and reached the conclusion that though relative distance is not conclusive and
competitive conditions are to be regarded, the Texas ports
are entitled to an advantage in rate consequent upon the
shorter haul to and from the interior territory. The Commission's three reports abound with statements that a
differential in favor of the Texas ports will divert traffic
running to New Orleans and send it through the Texas
ports. Petroleum is one of the commodities as to which
complaint was made. There is no transportation difference discoverable in the record between this traffic and
that of the other freights affected by the order. But the
Commission concluded that New Orleans was not receiving more than its fair share of this business, and that a
differential advantage would be of little benefit to the
Texas ports by diverting this commodity to them, and
therefore refused to make any order respecting the rates
on petroleum and its products."' It has since, apparently
upon similar considerations, refused to prescribe differentials in the rates on blackstrap molasses.3
The actual
basis of the decision is, moreover, -avowed by the Commission. In the first report it said:
"We find that the present relationships of the assailed
rates on export, import, and coastwise traffic,
are unduly prejudicial to Galveston and unduly preferential of New Orleans." (100 I.C.C. 122.)
In its second report it stated:
"We find that the present parity of rates as between
the Texas and Louisiana ports . . . does not result
in substantial injury to the Texds ports in respect of
1

See the Commission's findings, 128 I.C.C. 366, 372,374-376 and the
opinions of Commissioners McManamy and Taylor, 128 I.C.C. 399.
"Blackstrap Molasses from Louisiana Points and 'Ports, 171 I.C.C.
583, 591.

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

petroleum and its products, but does result in substantial
injury to and prejudice against the Texas ports in respect
of the other commodities considered." (128 I.C.C. 388.)
And finally:
"Upon further consideration we now find...
that the present relationships of the assailed carload rates
on export, import and coastwise traffic . . . are, and
for the future will be, unduly prejudicial to Galveston and
the other Texas ports taking the same rates, and unduly
preferential of New Orleans." (.160 I.C.C. 359.)
The action of the Commission cannot be justified upon
any theory that it was protecting shippers and consignees,
who would naturally desire all possible routes for foreign
shipment. On the contrary, the orders prohibited a practice born of competition, and not proved to involve a loss
of revenue to the appellants. The plain purpose of the
orders was to build up the Texas ports by diverting export
and import traffic to them. As we have shown, § 3
grants no such power.
2. The Commission's action is challenged for another,
and wholly independent reason, which, if sustained, also
requires a reversal of the decree. By its second order the
Commission excluded the Texas & Pacific and the L. R. &
N. from its findings of undue preference and prejudice
and exempted them from the requirement as to differentials. The Texas & Pacific had been included by the first
order on the theory that it was part of the Missouri Pacific
system which served both New Orleans and the Texas
ports. Upon rehearing the conclusion was that the line
was independently operated. Exemption was thereupon
granted both appellants pursuant to a rule which the
Commission had consistently followed since its organization: namely, that a carrier may not be held responsible
for undue prejudice or preference unless both of the localities affected are upon its lines, or it effectively participates
in the rates to both. In the final report these roads were

TEXAS & PACIFIC RY. CO. v. U.S.
627

Opinion of the Court.

denied exemption under the belief that this court had held
the principle inapplicable in the circumstances here disclosed. The appellants insist the rule is a reasonable one,
consonant with the purposes of the Act, and that our
decisions have not narrowed it so as to exclude this case
from its scope.
The line of the Texas & Pacific in Texas is intersected
at intervals of about 40 miles by north-and-south lines directly or indirectly serving the Texas ports. The population of these junction points is over ten times as great as
that of all other open stations on this appellant's line in
Texas, and the greater volume of export and import traffic
originates and. terminates at the junctions. 3 Thus the
question is whether the Texas & Pacific may continue to
participate in the handling of the traffic moving through
the ports to and from points on its own rails, on an equality of rates with competing lines which extend to the
Texas ports, or may be forbidden so to do because it is
a party with the competing carriers to joint rates from
stations on its own line to the Texas ports. The same
issue is presented with respect to the L. R. & N: Neither
of the appellants controls the rates to the Texas ports
and the Commission so finds. 4 Though the Texas port
lines can reduce their rates to and from those ports without the concurrence of the New Orleans lines, no reductions can be made in those rates by the - -:ewOrleans lines,
The conditions on the L. R. & N., while differing in fact from those
affecting the T. & P., present the same question and need not be
separately stated.
'The finding is: "The New Orleans carriers participate in a full
line of joint commodity rates to and from Gulf ports from and to both
the junction and local points on their lines. While, under the rules
governing the southwestern carriers and their tariff-publishing agents,
the New Orleans carriers have the power to increase the rates from
points served by them to the Texas ports without concurrence of their
connections, a reduction in such rates would require the consent and
concurrence of the participating Texas lines." (160 I.C.C. 356.)

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 Us.

even from or to their local stations, without the concurrence of one or more lines reaching the Texas ports.
Clearly the New Orleans carriers have no effective control
over the rates between their junction points and the
Texas ports. As respects local stations, their participation in joint rates with the lines to Texas ports is required
by § 1 (4) of the Act; but such rates may not be higher
than reasonable maxima fixed by national or state authority nor lower than the amount agreed to by their connections to the Texas ports. The appellants insist that their
compulsory participation in rates to and from the Texas
ports has no legal significance, and the question remains
whether they in fact exercise effective control over those
rates.
The classical case of discrimination in rates is presented
where a single carrier serving two points approximately
equidistant from a common origin on the carrier's line,
exacts unequal rates for the two hauls. Not only is the
prejudice obvious, but equally so the ability of the carrier
to abate it by raising the rates to the point enjoying the
lower rates, or decreasing those to the point subject to the
higher charge. The principle comprehends, as well, instances of joint rates where the same carriers participate
in the rates to both points, 5 and where the originating (or
delivering) carriers are different, but the delivering (or
originating) carriers are the same. 8 So, too, a carrier may
be responsible for preference or prejudice where it participates in one of several through routes between point of
origin and the prejudiced destinations, although its own
line may reach only one or neither of the latter, St. Louis
S. W. Ry. v. United States, 245 U.S. 136, for the discrim" Southern Ry. Co. v. United States, 204 Fed. 465; Chicago, I. &
L. Ry. v. United States, 270 U.S. 287; Rates on Grain Milled in
Transit, 35 I.C.C. 27.
"Lake Dock Coal Cases, 89 I.C.C. 170; Seneca Wire & Mfg. Co. v.

B. & 0. R. Co., 112 I.C.C. 95.

TEXAS & PACIFIC RY. CO. v. U.S.
627

649

Opinion of the Court.

ination is brought about by the disparity of rates, and
the order requiring its abatement necessarily runs against
all the carriers parties to them. If one or more of the railroads whose lines make up the through route should
refuse, upon an order to equalize rates, to afford one of
the others a proper division of the rate, the latter may
obtain redress from the Commission under § 15 (6).
Where, however, a carrier whose lines reach, or which controls the rate to, one of the destinations, is a party to a
joint rate to the other but cannot make or control the
latter rate, or though it were to withdraw as a party
thereto, or to cancel the rate, the discrimination would
still continue-it cannot be held responsible, nor can any
order to remove the prejudice run against it.8" This rule
has been consistently applied in respect of export and
import rates to the ports.
The reason for the doctrine
is that preference or prejudice can be found only by a
comparison of two rates. If these are the rate of one
'This doctrine has been applied by the Commission in at least
forty-five cases, under varying circumstances containing one or more
of the elements mentioned. It was first announced soon after the
organization of the Commission in Eau Claire Board of Trade v.
C. M. & St. P. R. Co., 5 I.C.C. 264, was elaborated in Ashland Fire
Brick Co. v. .Southern Ry. Co., 22 I.C.C. 115, and has been referred
to as the doctrine of the Ashland Fire Brick case since that time.
For a reference to some of the decisions applying the rule see the
dissenting opinion of Commissioner Porter in Duluth Chamber of
Commerce v. C. & N. W. Ry. Co., 156 I.C.C. 156, 173.
Chamber of Commerce of New York v. N. Y. C. & H. R.R. Co.,
24 I.C.C. 55, 75; Molasses from Mobile, 28 I.C.C. 666, 669; Sugar
Cases of 1922, 81 I.C.C.. 448, 471; Valley Camp Coal Co. v. B. & 0.
R. Co., 88 I.C.C. 682, 686," Maritime Assn. of Boston v. Ann Arbor
R. Co., 95 I.C.C. 539, 565 572-3 574, 575; id., 126 I.C.C. 215; Lake
Cargo Coal Rates, 1925, 101 I.6.C. 513, 545; Mobile Chamber of
Commerce v. M. S. B. & P. R. Co., 129 I.C.C. 419, 422; Bananas
from Gulf Ports, 140 I.C.C. 682 (Eastman, Commissioner, concurring, at p. 684); Lake Charles Harbor & T. Dist. v. Brimstone R. &
C. Co., 157 I.C.C. 720, 723,

650

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 US.

carrier to point A and that of another to point B while
a relationship of one to the other may be determined
neither the first nor the second carrier alone can be held
to have created the relation. Assuming that neither rate
is unreasonable, the one carrier cannot be compelled to
alter its rate, because the other's is higher or lower for the
same service. A carrier or group of carriers must be the
common source of the discrimination-must effectively
participate in both rates, if an order for correction of the
disparity is to run against it or them. Where an order i.
made under § 3 an alternative must be afforded. 9 The
offender or offenders may abate the discrimination by
raising one rate, lowering the other, or altering both.
Compare American Express Co. v. Caldwell, 244 U.S. 617,
624; United States v. Penna. R. Co., 266 U.S. 191; Chicago, I. &fL. Ry. Co. v. United States, 270 U.S. 287, 292;
Minneapolis & St. L. R. Co. v. Peoria & Pekin U. R. Co.,
270 U.S. 580, 582. The situation must be such that the,
carrier or carriers if given an option have an actual
alternative.
The principle has been approved in decisions of this
court with respect to practices, Interstate Commerce
Comm'n v. Diffenbaugh, 222 U.S. 42; Central Railroad of
New Jersey v. United States, 257 U.S. 247, -and rates,
East Tenn. V. & G. Ry. Co. v. Interstate Commerce
Comm'n, 181 U.S. 1; Penn Refining Co. v. Western N.Y.
& P. R. Co., 208 U.S. 208, 221.
In the Central Railroad case it was said (p. 259): "But
participation merely in joint rates does not make connecting carriers partners. They can be held jointly and severally responsible for unjust discrimination only if each
carrier has participated in some way in that which causes
the unjust discrimination; as where a lower joint rate is
'This is not true of an order pursuant to § 15 (1), prescribing
maximum or minimum or maximum and minimum rates; but the
present orders were not issued under that section.

TEXAS & PACIFIC RY. CO. v. U.S.
627

Opinion of the Court.

given to one locality than to another similarly situated.
(Citing cases.) If this were not so, the legality or illegality of a carrier's practice would depend, not on its own
act, but on the acts of its connecting carriers
What Congress sought to prevent by that section [3], as
originally enacted, was not differences between localities
in transportation rates, facilities and privileges, but unjust discrimination between them by the same carrier or
carriers." While this language was used with respect to
circumstances differing from those here disclosed, it applies to the situation of appellants, who are by the Commission's order held responsible for what is not and
cannot be the result of their own acts,--the level of the
rates to the Texas ports.
In the East Tennessee case the court said (p. 18):
"The prohibition of the third section, when that section is considered in its proper relation, is directed against
unjust discrimination or undue preference arising from
the voluntary and wrongful act of the carriers complained
of as having given undue preference, and does not relate
to acts the result of conditions wholly beyond the control
of such carriers."
The appellees contend, however, and the Commission
concluded that in later cases the court has held the principle inapplicable in circumstances so like those here exhibited that it should not control our decision in the instant case. One of these is St. Louis S. W. Ry. Co. v.
United States, 245 U.S. 136, cited for the proposition that
the Commission has power to prevent carriers which participate in rates from blanket territory from discriminating against a particular destination, although one of them
does not with its own lines reach such destination, but bills
through traffic to it over connecting lines. The order
there under review was for the establishment of a reasonable joint rate, or in the alternative new through ror'es
with joint rates, under § 15 of the Act, and was held by

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

this .court to be primarily an order under that section, and
not under § 3. The statement with respect to the
possibility of unjust discrimination by all the participating carriers, even though the rails of some did not reach
the locality prejudiced, is clearly sound, but is beside the
point here in issue; for in that case no question as to the
control of the rate to both points by any carrier affected by
the order was raised or decided.
Chicago, I. & L. Ry. Co. v. United States, 270 U.S. 287,
is relied upon because of the statement in the opinion
[p. 293] that "'Wherever discrimination is, in fact, practiced, an order to remove it may issue; and the order may
extend to every carrier who participates in inflicting the
injury." This was said with respect to a mandate to three
carriers serving Michigan City, each of which had refused
to enter into interchange arrangements with an electric
railroad. Their lines did not connect directly with the
electric line, but required for interchange the service oft
an intermediate switching carrier. The order of the Commission was held proper because each defendant railroad
was solely responsible for the prejudice resulting from its
own refusal to maintain interchange arrangements with
the electric line, and for the preference of maintaining
such arrangements with other carriers at Michigan City.
Each could, without reference to the conduct of any other,
correct the unjust discrimination which it individually
practiced. The very question here is whether the New
Orleans lines in fact control the rates to the Texas ports
and the Commission has answered it in the negative.
Principal reliance is placed upon United States v. Illinois Central R. Co., and Wyoming Ry. Co. v. United
States, 263 U.S. 515. In the first it appeared that the
Illinois Central equalized rates on. lumber to certain destinations from all its main -and branch line points in
blanket origin territory, andfrom points on certain independent short lines within the blanket area, but refused

TEXAS & PACIFIC RY. CO. v. U.S.
627

Opinion of the Court.

to extend similar blanket rates to producing points on the
Fernwood & Gulf, an independent short line serving the
same area. The Illinois Central's excuse was that it
could not afford to shrink its earnings by larger divisions
to the Fernwood & Gulf. The complaint before the Commission was against both carriers and the Commission
required that both should abate the unjust discrimination.4
In the second case it was shown that the Burlington
published a blanket rate on lumber to destinations on a
portion of its main line and to points located on its branch
lines, but refused to join in an equal rate to a point on
an independent branch line connected with the blanketed
portion of the main line. The service to the latter point
at the higher combination rate was less than was rendered
to points on the Burlington's branch lines. The Commission ordered both carriers to abolish the undue preference
and prejudice.4
It will be noted that in the one case the Illinois Central
and in the other the Burlington made the one rate and
was a party to the other. Not only so, but in each case
the trunk line carrier controlled the joint or combination
rate to or from the prejudiced locality. Quite clearly the
independent line could not equalize that rate with the one
in force to the preferred locality without the concurrence
of the trunk line. Both railroads joined in the bill to
enjoin enforcement of the order in the Illinois Central
case, but only the independent carrier filed the bill in the
Burlington case.
The appellees insist that as the orders ran against the
independent road as well as the trunk line, and this court
refused to set them aside, it necessarily follows that a
carrier may be liable for unjust discrimination by virtue
of its mere participation in one of the rates whether or
"'Swift Lumber Co. v. F. & G. R. Co., 61 I.C.C. 485.
" Pioneer Lumber Co. v. Director General, 64 I.C.C. 485.

654

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

not it controls that rate. The argument ignores the substance and basis of the decision. The trunk line controlled both rates, and by its action alone could the disparity be corrected. But the short line was a party to
one of the rates which created the illegal relation; and
was therefore properly joined in the order. Compare
Virginian Ry. Co. v. United States, 272 U.S. 658, 665.
The fact, however, that the order included the short line
is entirely insignificant on the question whether the same
carrier in fact controlled both rates and was, in fact, responsible for the undue preference and prejudice. The
contention of the short line that it did not participate
in the discrimination because it did not join in the lower
rates to the preferred locality maintained by the Illinois
Central, and could not, therefore, by its own act, remove
the discrimination, was properly overruled. As siaid by
the court, that carrier, in joining the Illinois Central in
establishing the prejudicial through rate, was as much a
party to the discrimination as if it had also joined in the
lower rates to the other points alleged to be unduly preferred. If Fernwood & Gulf could not persuade the
Illinois Central to join in a new non-discriminatory rate
and accord it a proper division, it had a plain remedy
under § 15 of the Act. To make the decision a precedent
for the instant case it would have to be found that the
New Orleans carriers effectively controlled both the rates
to New Orleans and those to the Texas ports. If they
did, obviously an order might run not only against the
New Orleans carriers but against their connections to the
Texas ports, albeit the latter did not control those rates.
We find nothing in any of the decisions which renders
inapplicable the principle upon which the Commission has
acted, with the approval of this court, for more than forty
years.in the administration of § 3, and conclude that the
New Orleans lines could not properly be held guilty of
unjust discrimination against the Texas ports in the ab-

TEXAS & PACIFIC RY. CO. v. U.S.
627

STONE,

J., dissenting.

sence of a finding of effective participation in the rates
to them.
3. The conclusions announced render it unnecessary to
consider the other questions pressed by the appellants.
The judgment must be reversed and the cause remanded to the District Court for further proceedings in
conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR.

JUSTICE STONE,

dissenting.

The Interstate Commerce Commission, acting under
§ 3 (1) and § 15 (1), of the Interstate Commerce Act,
24 Stat. 379, as amended by Transportation Act, 1920,
41 Stat. 456, after extensive investigation, has found that
the rates of rail carriers on commodities moving in import,
export and coastwise transportation from or to points in
Texas, Oklahoma and southern Kansas, and in Louisiana
west of the Mississippi River were unduly prejudicial to
Galveston and other Texas gulf ports and unduly preferential of New Orleans. Its order, framed to restrict, but
not to remove entirely*the discrimination, sustained by the
District Court of three judges below, is now held void and
set aside by this Court. I think that the order is within
the competency of the Commission, is supported by the
evidence, and should in all respects be upheld.
Stated generally, the discrimination complained of is
the maintenance of rates by the rail carriers which give no
recognition to the proximity of Galveston and other Texas
ports to the interior points involved. The rates thus
deprive the Texas ports of the natural advantage of their
geographical position over that of a rival port, New Orleans; and as the commercial advantages of-New Orleans
exceed those of the Texas ports, the rates result in the
diversion of traffic to the former from territory normally
tributary to the latter. The Commission found that
although the length of haul from the interior shipping

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
STONE, J.,

dissenting.

289

U.S.

points to the Texas ports is less than that to New Orleans,
the difference varying from 162 to 213 miles from typical
points,' the carriers have long maintained the same, and
in many instances substantially lower rates to New Orleans. In territory nearer to New Orleans than to the
Texas ports, the lesser service has, on the other hand,
been given recognition by correspondingly lower rates.
The Commission has found, and it is not questioned, that
transportation costs and conditions throughout the southwest territory are substantially the same; that the rates
established by the carriers disregard generally and materially the amounts and costs of service; that the discrimination has deprived, and will continue to deprive the
Texas ports of the natural advantage of their more favorable geographical position, and has resulted and will continue to result in building up the port of New Orleans
to their detriment and at their expense. The order assailed seeks to curtail this discrimination and the injury
which it inflicts. It leaves undisturbed the lower rates in
force to New Orleans from points nearer that city than
Galveston and permits parity of rates where the distance
to New Orleans does not exceed that to Galveston by more
than 25%, but for differences in distance exceeding 25%
it has named minimum differentials under the rates maintained to New Orleans.
In holding that the Commission is without power to
make the order, the Court does not deny that a discrimination which is produced by charging equal rates for
unequal service is prohibited by the statute as much as
one resulting from unequal rates for equal service. Compare The Shreveport Case, 234 U.S. 342, 346. Nor does
the Court consider material, in this respect, the findings
The distances range from 162 miles from typical points in southern Kansas and 174 miles from typical points in Oklahoma to 213
miles from typical points in northern Texas. Waco is 233, Dallas
291, and FQrt Worth 308 miles nearer Galveston than New Orleans.

TEXAS & PACIFIC RY. CO. v. U.S.
627

STONE,

J., dissenting.

of the Commission that the rates to Texas ports and New
Orleans are both reasonable to shippers, in that the former

are not too high, or the latter so low as to cast a burden
on other traffic. For it is not denied that the Commission
may remove a discrimination effected by rates .which are
within the zone of reasonableness if the discrimination is
one forbidden by § 3 (1) of the Act. American Express
Co. v. Caldwell, 244 U.S. 617; United States v. Illinois
Central Ry. Co., 263 U.S. 515, 524. It is not suggested
that a discrimination effected by reasonable rates may not
result in gross injury to the locality discriminated against;
and the opinion does not question the correctness of the
findings here that such injury is inflicted on the Texas
ports by the prohibited rates. The issue is thus narrowed
to two questions, first, whether the acts of Congress giv'ing broad powers to the Commission to remove discriminations resulting in undue or unreasonable prejudice to
a "locality," have conferred any power on the Commission to curtail an unduly prejudicial discrimination
agairfst a port, and second, whether, assuming that the
Corimission has such power, it may order the removal of
the discrimination by the appellant carriers who participate in the discriminatory rates, although their rails reach
only New Orleans, and not the Texas ports.
First. The Court holds that this power is lacking because the locality injured by the discrimination, a port,
is neither .the origin nor the ultimate destination of the
traffic involved, but a gateway through which it passes,
albeit it is arrested there pending its transshipment upon
a new and independent contract for ocean transportation.
It is said that a gateway is not a "locality" within the
meaning of the Act because it was never intended that the
statute should forbid discrimination against localities
which are not points of origin or ultimate destination,
however unreasonable and unjust the discrimination
may be.
15450*-33-42

658

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
STONE,

J., dissenting

289 U.S.

The words of the statute neither state nor suggest such
an exception.
Section 3 (1) of the Interstate Commerce Act declares:
"It shall be unlawful for any common carrier . . . to
make or give any undue or unreasonable preference or
advantage to any particular person, company, firm, corporation or locality, or hny particular description of traffic,
in any respect whatsoever, or to subject any particular
person, company, firm, corporation or locality, or any
particular description of traffic to any undue or unreasonable prejudice or disadvantage in any respect whatsoever."
Section 15 (1) gives to the Commission plenary power
to remove any such "unjustly discriminatory or unduly
preferential " individual or joint rate, by ordering the carrier or carriers to cease and desist from the violation, and
by prescribing a just and reasonable individual or joint
rate to be observed by the carrier or carriers concerned.
On its face the prohibition of any undue and unreasonable
prejudice to "any particular lo 3ality," "in any respect
whatsoever," would seem so plainly to include a port as
to leave no room for construction. Compare United
States v. Shreveport Grain & Elevator Co., 287 U.S. 77;
Crooks v. Harrelson,282 U.S. 55; Van Camp & Sons v.
American Can Co., 278 U.S. 245, 253.
I can find nothing in the purpose or history of the
statute which suggests that it means any less than it says.
This Court has often declared that the purpose of the allembracing language of the statute was to suppress every
form of unreasonable discrimination which it was within
the pow, r of Congress to condemn. Merchants Warehouse Co. v. United States, 283 U.S. 501, 512; Louisville
& Nashville R. Co. v. United States, 282 U.S. 740, 749750; The Shreveport Case, supra, 356; Louisville & Nashville R. Co. v. Mottley, 219 U.S. 467. It has said that
discrimination was the principal thing aimed at and "the

TEXAS & PACIFIC RY. CO. v. U.S.
627

STONE,

J., dissenting.

purpose of Congress was to cut up by the roots every
form of discrimination, favoritism and inequality." Louisville & Nashville R. Co. v. Mottley, supra, 478.
Statutory language so unambiguous and a purpose so
comprehensive do not readily yield to the conclusion that
a locality which is a port is not a "locality" within the
meaning of the Act. The bare fact that a port is a gateway and not the ultimate destination of the traffic, does
not support that conclusion, for the commercial interests
of a port, always of great magnitude, may suffer the same
destruction from discriminatory rates as do shippers or
other industrial interests at points of origin or destination.
A rate structure which diverts from one port to another
a portion of the ocean-borne traffic, which would otherwise naturally pass through the former, sufficient to destroy the business of banks, marine insurance companies,
freight forwarders, freight and ship brokers, stevedores,
tonnage companies, pilots, dry docks, ship supply and
bunker coal merchants, customs brokers, export and import commission houses, centered there, would seem to
have an effect upon the commerce and general welfare
of the country of precisely the kind which the act was
intended to prohibit and the Commission empowered to
prevent. So the Commission has concluded in a series of
cases dealing with discrimination against ports, going
back to the first years of its existence. See N. Y. Produce
Exch. v. B. & 0. R. Co., 7 I.C.C. 612, 658, 660; In re
Export and Domestic Rates, 8 I.C.C. 214; In re Differential Rates, 11 I.C.C. 13; Chamber of Commerce of N.Y. v.
New York Central, 24 I.C.C. 55, 27 I.C.C. 238; Astoria v.
S. P. & S. R. Co., 38 I.C.C. 16; In re Import Rates, 24
I.C.C. 78; New York Harbor Case, 47 I.C.C. 643; Mobile
Chamber of Commerce v. Mobile & 0. R. Co., 57 I.C.C.
554; Coffee from Galveston and other Gulf Ports, 58 I.C.C.
716; 64 I.C.C. 26; Charleston Traffic Bureau v. Ala. &

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
STONE,

J., dissenting.

289 U.S.

G. S. R. Co., 89 I.C.C. 501; Maritime Assn. of Boston v.
Ann Arbor R. Co., 95 I.C.C. 539; Oswego v. B. & 0. R.
Co., 151 I.C.C. 717.
This administrative practice and construction cannot be
dismissed with the observation that where "a statutory
body has assumed a power plainly not granted no amount
of such interpretation is binding upon the court," for
the question obviously is whether or not a power was
granted which the language of the statute plainly embraces and which certainly was not plainly denied. In
determining that question when the meaning of the
statute is doubtful on its face, we have often said that
administrative construction is of persuasive force, see
United States v. Chicago North Shore & Milwaukee R.
Co., 288 U.S. 1; N.Y., N.H. & H.R. Co. v. Interstate
Commerce Comm'n, 200 U.S. 361, 401, particularly where,
as here, the statute has been frequently amended and the
provision relied upon retained in identical form. Compare Brewster v. Gage, 280 U.S. 327, 336; National Lead
Co. v. United States, 252 U.S. 140, 147. This construction certainly cannot be summarily disregarded in favor
of another which departs both from the plain meaning of
the words and from the policy which has hitherto been
thought to have inspired their use.
To support sach a departure it is said that as the railroads, before the enactment of the statute, had in some
instances attempted to equalize competing ports by setting up a rate structure which did not conform wholly to
the carrier service involved, and as Congress, in the Interstate Commerce Act evinced no intention to prevent competition for business between rail carriers, it could not
have intended by this legislation forbidding discrimination prejudicial to localities to forbid discriminations between rival ports, however unreasonable and injurious.
The port differentials and equalizations maintained
prior to the passage of the original act, in order to secure

TEXAS & PACIFIC RY. CO. v. U.S.
627

STONE,

J., dissenting.

a fair distribution of traffic among the Atlantic ports and
the carriers serving them, were very different in quality

and prejudicial effect upon the localities concerned from
the rate structure resulting in the discrimination disclosed
here.2 The existence of those equalizations before 1887
and the fact that in some instances since that date they
have been regarded as innocuous even by the Commission
itself, can hardly lend support to the supposition that the
statute was not intended to forbid destructive discriminations in that form as well as in any other. The argument seems to be that the statute cannot be deemed to
forbid unjust discriminations against ports since if it did
all rates to competing ports not measured by mileage or
carrier service would be forbidden whether unjust or not.
With equal plausibility it was argued that because competition between carriers was an established practice before
the enactment of § 3 and is not forbidden by the Act,
no discrimination induced by carrier competition was forbidden. But that construction was rejected by this Court,
Wight v. United States, 167 U.S. 512, 517; United States
v. Illinois Central R. Co., supra; Merchants Warehouse
Co. v. United States, supra, for the same reason that the
present construction should be rejected-that although
carrier competition was not destroyed by the Interstate
Commerce Act, it was limited by the prohibition of § 3
of those discriminations which, in the light of all the
circumstances, are found to be undue or unreasonable.
'Differentials were adopted by voluntary agreement of the carriers to eliminate competitive rate wars, ruinous to the railroads, and
to the localities concerned. Their effect was to preserve rather than
to destroy a fair distribution of the traffic from the west to the
Atlantic Seaboard. See John B. Daish, Atlantic Port Differentials
(1918); Preferential Transportation Rates, Report of the United
States Tariff Commission, 1922, p. 279; cf. Commissioner Prouty, In
the Matter of Differential Rates, 11 I.C.C. 13, 61 ff. and the briefs in
the same case reprinted in the appendix to the hearings on the Hepburn Amendment before the Senate Committee on Interstate Commerce (1905), Vol. V, p. 407.

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
STONE,

J., dissenting.

289 U.S.

The statute does not purport to prohibit all discriminations. It reaches only those against either localities or
shippers which result in prejudice which is "undue or
unreasonable." Cf. Nashville, C. & St. L. Ry. v. Tennessee, 262 U.S. 318, 322. Hence, in determining whether
a discrimination involved in a port equalization is " undue
or unreasonable," competition is a factor which may not
be ignored (see InterstateCommerce Comm'n v. Alabama
Midland Ry., 168 U.S. 144,170); the Commission is not to
leave 4,ut of account either past history or practical experience, or the effect of the discrimination on the ports concerned. But even though the exigencies of competition
may be entitled to greater consideration in a case of discrimination between ports than in one of discrimination
between shippers, the weight which is given to it and to
the other ielevant facts, in determining whether the discrimination is so unjust as to be forbidden, does not go to
the Commission's power but to the propriety of its exercise. United States v. Illinois Central R. Co., supra,525;
Interstate Commerce Comm' v: Alabama Midland Ry.,
supra. That the Commission so conceives its powers and
function in considering a rate adjustment equalizing
ports, is apparent from its statement of the problem in
the present case:
"Such an adjustment necessarily disregards distance
and commercial instead of natural advantages control. We
have consistently refused to condemn such an adjustment
where it is shown to serve the best interests of the public, but where, as here, it builds up one port at the expense
of another equally favored by natural advantages from
the origin territory here considered, a line must be found
beyond which distance may not be disregarded."
This language of the Commission appears to me to suggest the only reasonable interpretation of the statute consonant with its language, its history and its background.
The statute does not command or the Commission's order

TEXAS & PACIFIC RY. CO. v. U.S.
627

SToNu, J., dissenting.

direct that the rates shall be measured exclusively by
mileage or carrier service; carrier competition for business passing through gateways or elsewhere is not forbidden; but when the discrimination goes so far beyond
the line of reasonableness as to result in the commercial
destruction of a locality, the Commission may declare it
"undue or unreasonable" and, therefore, forbidden by
the statute, whether aimed at ports or points of shipment
or destination. Nothing that this Court has ever said is
inconsistent with this conclusion. The legislative history
of the statute seems to support, rather than to deny it.
Close scrutiny of the legislative history of the original
act and of the Hepburn Amendment fails to disclose any
intention to except from the forbidden discriminations
againsi localities, undue or unreasonable discriminations
against ports. Senator Cullom, who was in charge of the
earlier bill, made no reference to the present question in
his explanatory statement," cited in the opinion -of the
'With respect to § 3 Senator Cullom said: "The third section

contains a general prohibition of every variety of unjust discrimination. .The section covers two subjects. The first paragraph
.prohibits the giving of any undue or unreasonable preference to any

particular person or locality, or any particular description of traffic,
in any respect whatever, and declares such a preference unlawful.
. This covers in general terms, though by no means so completely, the provision of section 2 as to discriminations against persons,
but goes further and includes -liscraminations against localities or particular descriptions of traffic. The language adopted in this paragraph is substantially that of the English statute on the subject which
has been repeatedly construed by the English courts, so that its
meaning has already been judicially established
."
(Cong.
Rec., 49th Cong., 1st Sess., vol. 17, p. 3472). It may not be without
significance that the English antecedents of § 3, The Railway and
Canal Traffic Act of 1854 (17 & 18 Vict., c.31, § 2) and the Act of
1873, amending it (36 &'37 Vict., c. 48, § 11) failed to include preference of localities.
See also Senator Cullom's final answer to Senator Hoar's question
whether the effect of § 4 of the proposed act, prohibiting the charging

664

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
STONE,

J., dissenting.

289 U.S.

Court," and none is to be found in the House proceedings
to which reference is also made.5 Senator Cullom emphasized the fact that the discriminations forbidden included those against localities and nowhere suggested any
exceptions. Mention in the Report of the Senate Committee of the investigation of a committee of the British
Parliament and the quotation of its conclusions," are without significance here. Those conclusions were not en.
dorsed by the Senate Committee and did not deal with
undue discriminations produced by railroad competition.
It is true that in the debates in Congress on the Hepburn
Amendment it was pointed out in several instances that
the bill did not confer on the Commission the general
of more for a shorter than a longer distance over the same line under
substantially similar conditions, would not eliminate port differentials,
ifwe are going to reguthen in existence, favoring Boston: "
late these corporations at all, if we are going to stop unjust discriminations and the secret rebates by which towns are built up and towns
are destroyed, by which individuals age destroyed and individuals
are built up, we must have something in the bill which will mean
something, or else we might as well lay the bill on the table and go at
other business." (Cong. Rec., 49th Cong., 2d Sess., vol. 18, pp. 485,
486.) Compare his statement in discussing the conference report:
"It has been said over and over again here that the railroad companies would build up one man and crush another; that their policy
has been to destroy one locality or city and build up another. Here
we have undertaken to so regulate them as to prevent them from
doing those things so far as we can ao so." (Cong. Rec., 49th Cong.,
2d Sess., vol. 18, p. 660.)
' See the opinion of the Court, note 18.
'See Cong. Rec., 49th Cong., Ist Seas., vol. 17, pp. 7277, 7294, 7298.
'Report No. 46, 49th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 57. Compare the Committee's statement of the fundamental theory and purpose of the
bill (p. 215): "The provisions of the bill am based upon the theory
that the paramount evil chargeable against the operation of the transportation sysems of the United States as now conducted is unjust
discrimination between persons, places, commodities, or particular
descriptions of traffic. The underlying purpose and aim of the measure is the prevention of these discriminations.

TEXAS & PACIFIC RY. CO. v. U.S.
STONE, J., dissenting.

627

power to fix differentials to ports or to any other points,
but it was also pointed out that "Section 3 of the original
act applies just the same. We have not undertaken to
amend, limit, or extend Section 3. Whatever is unjust
and discriminatory under Section 3 is unjust under the
provisions of this bill and such will be prohibited . .
8
Moreover the basis for this want of power to fix differentials was not that a port is not a "locality" within the
meaning of § 3, but that differential rates on different
roads cannot be fully controlled without the fixing of a
minimum rate.' And it was recognized in the decisions of
'See Cong. Rec., 59th Cong., 1st Sess., vol. 40, pp. 1788, 2084-5,
2247, 2248, 3792, 6683.
'For the full quotation, see note 9, infra.
' Compare the statement of Mr. Stevens, a member of the House
Committee: "My people are just as much interested that there
should not be any undue control of differential rates.

.

.

. But it

'iR just as clear to us and to the whole committee that there is no such
power in this bill.

.

.

. The situation presented by the bill and

the reasons why differentials are not covered are very'simple. Under
this bill the Commission would have authority to fix what, in its
judgment, would be a just, reasonable, and fairly remunerative rate
or rates as the maximum to be charged. It woultH have no authority
to fix an absolute rate, which must be observed by the carrier, and
no authority to fix a minimum rate, below which the carrier
cannot go; and a preferential cannot .be controlled withQut
there is authority to control absolutely both legs of the differential.
In this case the -Commission cannot control either. It must fix a
rate which shall be just and reasonable and fairly remunerative as
the maximum to be charged. This leaves the carrier to charge anything it pleases below the maximum. And since there is no power
to fix any absolute rate and no minimum rate, there is no power in the
Commission to control the relation of rates, and so no power to control
the differential." Mr. Olmsted then asked whether "under this bill
the railroads may make as many unjust discriminations as they please
and the Commission would be powerless to correct them." Mr.
Stevens answered: "Oh, no;

.

.

.

Section 3 of the original act

applies just the same. We have not undertaken to amend, limit, or
extend section 3. Whatever is unjust and discriminatory under see-

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
SToNE, J.,

dissenting.

289 U.S.

this Court prior to the enactment of Transportation Act,
1920, conferring the power to fix minimum rates, that unjust discriminations produced by the relation of rates
charged or participated in by the same carrier might be
forbidden by the Commission by lowering the higher rate,
(compare St. Louis S. W. Ry. Co. v. United States, 245
U.S. 136, 144) or by an order which left the carrier free
to raise or continue the lower rate; "the compulsion being
that if the low rate is retained the rate applicable to the
locality or article discriminated against must be reduced."
Skinner & Eddy Corp.v. United &ate-, 249 U.S. 557, 566.
Second. The Court also holds that even if a port is a
"locality" within the meaning of the statute, and prejudicial discriminations against it are forbidden, still the
Commission is without power to order the Texas & Pacific
R.R. Co. and the Louisiana Railroad & Navigation Comtic. 3 is unjust under the provisions of this bill, and such will be
pnlaihied; but we will not allow the making of a minimum or absolute rate, which is the only adequate way of controlling a differential." Cong. Rec, vol. 40, p. 2085. It does not appear that Mr.
Mann's statement (Cong. Rec., vol. 40, p. 2247) quoted by the Court
(note 20) was intended to have any different meaning. Indeed his
reference to ports and to "cities" would seem to indicate that he
did not believe that ports were in any different position with reference to differentials than points of origin or destination. See also
Cong. Rec., vol. 40, p. 3792, and compare the remarks of Senator
Lodge, Cong. Rec., vol. 40, p. 4111, which indicate, if anything, his
belief that the differentials between Boston and other Atlantic ports
were within the control of the Commission.
It was also pointed out that relative rates on different roads were
not within the control of the Commission. In discussing differentials,
Senator Raynor pointed out that the provisions of the bill "are
limited to discriminations upon the same roads. The words 'unjustly discriminatory' or 'unduly preferential' or 'prejudicial' apply
to rates and regulations and practices upon the same road, because
there can be no such thing as an unjust discrimination or an undue
preference between different roads supplying different territory and
terminating at different points. . . . If one road charges an un-

TEXAS & PACIFIC RY. CO. v. U.S.
627

STONE, J., dissenting.

pany to remove the discrimination. Both these lines
reach New Orleans with their own rails and both participate in through rates and a full line of joint rates between
local and junction points on their own lines and the Texas
ports. They thus control the rate to New Orleans and are
parties to rates to the Texas ports and to the prejudicial
discrimination. Nevertheless, it is said that the Commission is without power to make an order removing the discrimination which does not afford to the carriers an alternative method of removing it, either by lowering the rates
to the Texas ports or raising those to New Orleans, and
that the present order does not afford such an alternative
because of the appellants' inability to control the rates to
the Texas ports.
The Commission may, in directing the removal of a
discriminatory rate or practice, not otherwise objectionreasonable rate or a discriminating rate, that would surely not justify
the Commission's adjusting the rate between this road and some other
road that has no connection with it by law or privity of contract. . . ." (Cong. Red., vol. 40, p. 6683.) Read in the light of
this statement, there is nothing to support the conclusion of the Court
in the other statement of Senator Raynor referred to in the opinion
(note 20) that there is no "power whatever in the Commission to
adjust relative rates and strike the proper proportions between them.
The ports of the United States, therefore, are not within the jurisdiction of the Hepburn Act. If there is a differential between different
ports upon different lines of railroads, there is no provision in this
measure that invests the Commission with the right to change it.
It has a perfect right, of course, where discrimination exists upon the
same line, as if a rate to an inland point compared with a rate to a
terminal point is unreasonable or unjustly discriminatory, to prescribe
a maximum rate; but it has no right to bring competitive roads
struggling for competitive markets within its jurisdiction, and I deny
in its entirety the proposition that the Commission could by any
exercise of its power, direct or inferential, take away from any railroad its right to charge its own rates, unless the rate is unreasonable
or unduly preferential or discriminatory upon its own line." (Cong.
Rec., vol. 40, p. 3792.)

668

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
STONu, J., dissenting.

289 U.S.

able, allow to the carrier a choice of methods of removing
the discrimination by the modification of one rate or practice or the other. By the present order the two carriers
are left free to remove the discrimination ..by raising the
New Orleans rate which they control, or by entering into
lower joint or through rates with the connecting carriers
to the Texas ports-a latitude which may serve the interest of the carriers better than would an order specifically
directing them to raise the New Orleans rates. Beyond
question these roads can remove the discrimination by
raising the New Orleans rates and it neither appears, nor
is it argued, that they cannot remove it by lowering the
rates to the Texas ports by agreement With their connecting carriers or, in default of agreement, by reducing their
own division and securing a corresponding reduction of
the joint rate on application to the Commission under
§ 15 (6). See St. Louis Southwestern R. Co. v. United
States, 245 U.S. 136, 139, note 2; compare United States
v. Illinois Central R. Co., supra, 521.
But the statute does not compel the Commission to
afford such an alternative or permit an offending carrier
to avoid its salutary provisions merely for the reason that,
although participating in both the offending rates, it can
with certainty control only one. It is true that in cases
arising before the enactment of Transportation Act, 1920,
by which power was given to the Commission to fix a
minimum rate, it could not remove a discrimination by
prescribing a minimum rate to one of the competing localities. But it could remove the discrimination by imposing a lower maximum rate, even though a joint rate participated in by the carrier whose rails did not reach the
locality discriminated against, (compare St. Louis Southwestern Ry. Co. v. United States, supra) or, as already
mentioned, it could leave the carriers free to remove the
discrimination by raising one or lowering the other. See
American Express Co. v: Caldwell, supra, 624; United

TEXAS & PACIFIC RY. CO. v. U.S.
627

SroNE,

669

J., dissenting.

States v. Pennsylvania R. Co., 266 U.S. 191. And now
that the Commission has power under § 15 (1) to fix a
minimum rate it may equally command the removal of
the discrimination by directing a rate to be raised, just
as where the carrier maintains discriminatory practices
the Commission may direct the modification of one and
not the other, and is not bound to allow the carrier a
choice. Merchants Warehouse Co. v. United States, supra,
513; New York, New Haven & Hartford R. Co. v. Interstate Commerce Comm'n supra, 404. The fact that the
Commission has given to the carrier an option to remove
the discrimination by arrangement with the connecting
carriers, through which the traffic reaches the Texas ports,
does not afford to the carrier any ground for complaint
or impair the power of the Commission to make the order.
The situation here appears to be identical with that
presented to this Court in United States v. Illinois Central
R. Co., supra, and in St. Louis Southwestern Ry. Co. v.
United States, supra. In both cases the carriers' rails
reached one of the competing points only through its connections. In the first the order leaving the carrier free
to remove the discrimination by raising one rate or lowering the other, and in the second an order requiring the
carrier to remove the discrimination by establishing a
lower joint rate with its connections, was upheld by this
Court. In St. Louis Southwestern Ry. Co. v. United
States, this Court said, page 144:
"Carriers insist also that the order is void on the ground
that, since their 'rails do not reach Paducah, they cannot
be guilty of discrimination against that city.' They, however, bill traffic via Cairo or Memphis through to Paducah
in connection with the Illinois Central, thus reaching Paducah, although not on their own rails. And, thereby, they
become effective instruments of discrimination. Localities require protection as much from combinations of connecting carriers as from singlc carriers whose 'rails'

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Syllabus.

289 U.S.

reach them. Clearly the power of Congress and of the
Commission to prevent interstate carriers from practicing
discrimination against a particular locality is not confined to those whose rails enter it."
The judgment should be affirmed.
The

CHIEF JUSTICE,

JUSTICE CAADozo

MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS and MR.

concur in"this opinion.

BURNET, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL REVENUE, v. WELLS.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 792.

Argued May 10, 1933.-Decided May 29, 1933.

1. Under § 219 (h) of the Revenue Acts of 1924 and 1926, where
an irrevocable trust is established to pay for insurance on the
settlor's life, collect the policy upon his death, and hold or apply
the proceeds, under the trust, for the benefit of his dependents, income of the trust fund used by the trustee in paying the premiums, is taxable to the settlor as part of his own income. P. 675.
2. This tax is constitutional as applied to income accruing since
the enactment of the legislation from trusts created earlier.
Pp. 677, 682.
3. Refinements of title are without controlling force in determining
whether a statute arbitrarily attributes to one person a taxable
interest in the income of another. The question is not whether
the concept of ownership reflected in the statute squares with
common-law traditions, but rather whether that concept could
reasonably be adopted because of privilege enjoyed or benefit derived by the taxpayer, some regard being had also to administrative convenience and the practical necessities of an efficient taxing
system. P. 678.
4. To overcome this statute the taxpayer must show that in attributing to him the ownership of the income of the trusts, or something
fairly to be dealt with as equivalent to ownership, the lawmakers
have done a wholly arbitrary thing, have found equivalence where
there was none nor anything approaching it, and laid a burden
unrelated to privilege or benefit. P, 679.

