DUPONT v. COMMISSIONER.
670

Argument for Petitioner.

the court below, which fully sustains respondent's contention here, renders it unnecessary to discuss the matter at
greater length. We think that opinion should be sustained. It finds ample support in Hoeper v. Tax Commission, 284 U.S. 206, 215; Heiner v. Donnan, 285 U.S. 312,
326; and other decisions of this court.

DuPONT v. COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.
No. 791.

Argued May 10, 1933.-Decided May 29, 1933.

1. Section 219 (h) of the Revenue Acts of 1924 and 1926, taxing
incomes of trust funds as income of the settlor, when applied to
payment of premiums on policies insuring his life for the benefit of
the trust beneficiaries,-held valid under Burnet v. Wells, ante,

p. 670. P. 687.
2. One who conveys securities in trust to keep up insurance, on his
life for the benefit of others, but reserves the right to retake the
securities at the end of a stated period if he survives, retains such
an interest in the securities, apart from his interest in having the
premiums paid, that the income from the securities applied to the
premiums during the trust period may constitutionally be taxed
as his own. P. 688.
63 F. (2d) 44, affirmed.

to review a judgment which affirmed a
decision, 20 B.T.A. 482, sustaining an assessment on
income.
CERTIORARI*

Mr. J. S. Y. Ivins, with whom Messrs. Kingman Brewster, Percy W. Phillips, and Richard B. Barker were on
the brief, for petitioner.
Petitioner, at the time of the enactment of the Revenue Act of 1924, and throughout the taxable years inSee Table of Cases Reported in this Volume.

686,

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Argument for Petitioner.

289 U.S.

volved, had no interest in the corpus or income of the
trusts, and had no interest in the life insurance policies.
The transfer of the policies was not temporary, but permanent and absolute. Coolidge v. Long, 282 U.S. 582,
602.
The collection of the tax would be unconstitutional.
Hoeper v. Tax Comm'n, 284 U.S. 206; Heiner v. Donnan,
285 U.S. 312; Knowlton v. Moore, 178 U.S. 41; Hartman
v. Greenhow, 106 U.S. 642.
Petitioner relieved himself from a moral obligation to
carry insurance for the beneficiaries; but he did this by
making a gift and parting with the beneficial ownership
of the policies (permanently) and of the corpus of the
trust fund (for the period of the trust). The fallacy of
the argument that relief from a moral obligation, constitutes taxable income can be readily seen by applying it
to other situations.
Hoeper v. Wisconsin Tax Comm'n, 284 U.S. 206, was.
not decided upon the ground that the principal which
yielded Mrs. Hoeper's income had never been the property of Mr. Hoeper, but upon the ground that it was not
his property at the time when it yielded the income
which was the subject of the tax. Present ownership of
the corpus (or a power of disposition thereof equivalent
to ownership) may be a basis for the taxation Of income,
but past ownership of a corpus is not more a proper basis
for taxation of income than it would be for the inclusion
of the corpus in the taxable estate of a de&dent.
The fact that the settlor had a reversion in the corpus
does not render him taxable on the income during the
prior term. Nail v. Commissioner, 27 B.T.A. 33. The
trustee was, for the term of the trust, unquestionably the
owner of both corpus and income for the uses mentioned
in the trust agreement. United States v. Looney, 29 F.
(2d) 884, 885.

DuPONT v. COMMISSIONER.
685

687

Opinion of the Court.

The extension of the trust from December 18, 1926,
was similar to the creation of a new trust.
Mr.' Erwin N. Griswold, with whom Solicitor General
Thacher, Miss Helen R. Carloss, and Mr. Sewall Key were
on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO delivered the opinion of the Court.

This case, like Burnet v. Wells, decided today, ante,
p. 670, requires us to determine whether ยง 219 (h) of the
Revenue Acts of 1924 and 1926 is consistent with the
Fifth Amendment in its application to trusts for the payment of premiums on policies of insurance.
On September 18, 1923, the petitioner, Du Pont, created
nine trusts for the benefit of his wife and children, transferring to the trustee thereby two policies of insurance
on his life, and shares of stock in a corporation, the income
to be used to keep the policies in force. The trusts were
to last for three years, during which term they were to
be irrevocable. At the end of the term, they might be
extended for a like period at the option of the settlor,
and successively thereafter. Two such notices were given,
with the result that in 1924, 1925, and 1926, the taxable
years involved in this proceeding, the trusts were still in
being.
The deeds make provision for the disposition of the
policies and separate provision for the disposition of the
shares.
As to the policies, the provision is that if the trusts
shall be terminated before the petitioner's death, all interest in the policies shall vest in ,certain named beneficiaries. The petitioner is not one of these, nor has he
any power to change them. If the petitioner shall die
while the trusts are still in force, the trustee is to collect
the insurance, 'nd to hold the proceeds in trust for the
use of the beneficiaries named in the agreements.

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
.I

Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

As to the shares of stock, the provision is that if the
trusts shall be terminated before the petitioner's death,
the shares and any income not paid out shall be transferred to the petitioner. If, however, he shall die while
the trusts are still in force, the shares are to be divided
among the children or their issue.
The Commissioner of Internal Revenue, following the
command of ยง 219 (h) of the applicable statutes (Revenue
Acts of 1924 and 1926; c. 234, 43 Stat. 253; 26 U.S.
Code, ยง 960; c. 27, 44 Stat. 9; 26 U.S. Code App., ยง 960)
made a deficiency assessment by adding to the taxpayer's
income the amount expended by the trustee in the
preservation of the policies. The Board of Tax Appeals
sustained the assessment, 20 B.T.A. 482, and the Court
of Appeals for the Third Circuit affirmed. 63 F. (2d)
44. A writ of certiorari was granted by this court.
The case is ruled by our judgment in Burnet v. Wells,
ante, p. 670, upholding the validity of the contested stat-:
ute. If the income of such a trust may be taxed to the
grantor though he has retained to himself no reversionary
interest in the principal of the trust, a fortiori that result
must follow where he has made a grant of the estate for a
short term of years, reserving the reversion when the term
is at an end.
The provisions of these deeds would require a determination in favor of the Government, though Burnet v.
Wells had been .decided the other way. "A statute may
be invalid as applied to one state of facts and yet valid
as applied to another." Dahnke-Walker Co. v. Bondurant,
257 U.S. 282, 289. Here the grantor did not divest himself of title in any permanent or definitive way, did not
strip himself of every interest in the subject matter of the
trust estate. During a term of three years, the trustee
was to apply the income to the preservation of the policies,
arid while thus applying the income was to hold the prin-

SINCLAIR RFG. CO. v. JENKINS CO.
685

Syllabus.

cipal intact for return to the grantor unless instructed to
retain it longer. The situation in its legal effect would
not be greatly different if the trusts had been created for
a month or from day to day. One who retains for himself
so many of the attributes of ownership is not the victim
of despotic power when for the purpose of taxation he
is treated as owner altogether.
The judgment is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER, MR. JUSTICE MIcREYNOLDS, MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND and MR. JUSTICE BUTLER

concur upon the reasons stated in the last paragraph.
SINCLAIR REFINING CO. v. JENKINS PETROLEUM PROCESS CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIRST CIRCUIT.

No. 752.

Argued May 11, 12, 1933.-Decided May 29, 1933.

1. A bill of discovery will lie in a federal court to aid in proving
damages of the plaintiff in an action on the law side, if the complication of accounts or other practical impediments make it necessary that the evidence be sifted in advance of the jury trial. P. 693.
2. Granting of this remedy is discretionary; and the party against
whom it is sought will be protected from impertinent intrusion into
his business affairs. P. 696.
3. In the present case discovery was sought in good faith and on
probable cause, and the defendant was properly protected by a
decree limiting the discovery in advance of trial to general facts,
but providing that the bill be retained for fuller inspection of
records, etc., without delay, in case of need. P. 697.
4. In an action at law to recover the damages resulting from the
breach of a contract to assign an application for a patent, the use
made by the defendant of the patented device, after the breach
of contract, may be considered in appraising the value*of the invention as of the time of the breach. P. 697.
62 F. (2d) 663, affirmed.
15450--3-44

