342

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

GROSS ET AL. v. IRVING TRUST CO., TRUSTEE IN
BANKRUPTCY*
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT

No. 680. Argued April 12, 1933.-Decided May 8, 1933
The supervention of bankruptcy within four months of the beginning of a suit against the bankrupt in a state court in which receivers were appointed for part of his assets, deprives that court of
its power to fix the compensation of the receivers and their counsel
and Vests it in the court of bankruptcy. P. 345.
61.F. (2d) 812, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 288 U.S. 598, 'to review the affirmance of
an order of a court of bankruptcy requiring state court
receivers and their counsel to turn over to the trustee in
bankruptcy, money that had been allowed them for their
services by the state court.
Mr. Merritt Lane fdr petitioners.
Mr. Samuel Kaufman, with whom Messrs. Nathan
Bilder and Arthur Leonard Ross were on the brief, for
respondent
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND delivered the opinion of the
Court.
October 13; 1931, the Court of Chancery of New Jersey,
upon a bill of complaint previously filed, appointed receivers for Crosby Stores, Inc. The receivers took possession of the assets located in New Jersey and operated the
business. On October 14, 1931, an involuntary petition
in bankruptcy against the corporation was filed in the federal district court for the Southern District of New York,
and the Irving Trust Company was appointed receiver in
bankruptcy by that court. The corporation was ad* Together with No. 681, Weisman et al., Receivers, v. Irving Trust
Co., Trust.ee, and No. 682, Gross et al. v. Irving Trust Co., Trustee,

GROSS v. IRVING TRUST CO.
342

343
4

Opinion of the Court.

judged a bankrupt, and the trust company was continued as trustee in bankruptcy and later sold all the assets
of the bankrupt, including those which ha'd passed into the
hands of the New Jersey receivers. OnDecember 1l, 1931,
the federal district court ordered the New Jersey receivers
to show cause (rule made absolute December 14) why
they should not turn over all the assets to the trustee in
bankruptcy and account to the federal court. On December 14 the state chancery court made allowances to its
receivers and their counsel in sums aggregating. $10,350.
Subsequently (December 21, 1.931), the federal district
court enjoined the receivers from interfering' with the
trustee and from.disposing of the moneys paid to them as
allowances under the order of the state chancery court.
Thetrustee then filed its petition in the federal district
court, sitting as a court in bankruptcy, averring that the
payments to the receivers were void as in violation of the
bankruptcy act, and that application must be made to the
bankruptcy court for allowances of compensation for any
services rendered by the receivers and their counsel inuring to the benefit of the bankrupt's estate. An appropriate order was asked against the receivers and their
counsel and was granted by the federal district court, and
affirmed by the circuit court of appeals. 61 F. (2d) 812.
This court granted certiorari.
The sole question presented for our determination is:
Did the state chancery court have the power to fix the
compensation of its receivers and their counsel after bankruptcy had supervened within four months of the filing
of the bill of complaint in, and the appointment of receivers by, that court? *
*

The decision of the circuit court of appeals, is assailed as erroneous

upon the further ground that that court held that the district court
had'power to proceed in a summary proceeding in bankruptcy, although the receivers and their counsel were adverse claimants. We
do not consider this contention, because it al)pears from the record
that the point was abandoned in the district court,

344

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

The state courts of New Jersey have steadily held in
the affirmative, and that view is not without support. We
deem it unnecessary, however, to review these decisions.
They are not in harmony with the views expressed by this
court or with other decisions, which, in our opinion, state
the true rule.
Upon adjudication of bankruptcy, title to all the property of the bankrupt, wherever situated, vests in the trustee as of the date of filing the petition in bankruptcy.
The bankruptcy court has exclusive jurisdiction, and that
court's possession' and control of the estate cannot be
affected by proceedings in other courts, state or federal.
Isaacs v. Hobbs Tie & T. Co., 282 U.S. 734, 737, and cases
cited. Such jurisdiction having attached, control of the
administration of the estate cannot be surrendered even
by the court itself. Id., 739. "The filing of the petition
is a caveat to all the world and in fact an attachment and
an injunction." May v. Henderson, 268 U.S. 111, 117, and
citations. And see generally Mdore v. Scott, 55 F. (2d)
863; In re Diamond's Estate, 259 Fed. 70.
The fact that the jurisdiction of the bankruptcy court
is paramount effectually distinguishes that class of cases
which hold that as between courts of concurrent jurisdiction property already in the hands of a receiver of one of
them cannot rightfully be taken from him without that
court's consent by a receiver subsequently appointed by
the other court. In Buck v. Colbath, 3 Wall. 334, 341,
the rule is stated to be that "whenever property has been
seized by an officer of the court, by virtue of its process,
the property is to be considered as in the custody of the
court, and under its control for the time being; and that
no other court has a right to interfere with that possession,
unless it be some court which may have a direct supervisory control over the court whose process has first taken
possession, or some superior jurisdictionin the premises."

GROSS v. IRVING TRUST CO.
342

345

Opinion of the Court.

And see Covell v. Heyman, 111 U.S. 176, 180. The present case falls within the italicized exception, since the
jurisdiction of the bankruptcy court is paramount and
not concurrent.
Nevertheless, due regard for comity-which means, in
this connection, no more than judicial courtesy between
the courts undertaking to deal with the same matterwould suggest that ordinarily the trustee in bankruptcy
might well be instructed by the bankruptcy court, before
taking final action, to request the state court to recognize
the exclusive jurisdiction of the former and set aside any
orders already made conflicting therewith, as was done
wijh good results in the case of In re Diamond's Estate,
supra, pp. 72, 75. In the present case, however, such a
course would probably have been futile, in view of the
fixed attitude of the state courts on the subject.
The jurisdiction of the bankruptcy court being parartount, the power of the state court to fix the compensationi of its receivers and the fees of their counsel necessarily camp to an end with, the supervening bankruptcy.
When the bankruptcy court acquired jurisdiction, the
sole power to fix such compensation and fees passed to
,that court. In re Diamond's Estate, supra, 74; Moore v.
Scott, supra; Sitberberg v. Ray Chain Stores, 54 F. (2d)
650, affirmed, 58 F. (2d) 766. We adopt, as stating the
correct rule, 'the language -used in Lion Bonding Co. v.
Karatz, ,262 U.S. 640, 642, although it was not strictly
necessary to that decision:" Even where the court which
appoints a receiver had jurisdiction at the time, but loses
it, as upon supervening bankruptcy, the first court cannot
thereafter make an allowance for his expenses and compensation. He must apply to the bankruptcy court."
See authorities cited in the footnote following this
statement.
Affirmed.

