346

OCTO3ER TERM, 1932.
Statement'of the Case.

289 U.S.

MINTZ ET AL. v. BALDWIN, COMMISSIONER OF
AGRICULTURE AND MARKETS OF NEW YORK
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK

No. 760. Argued April 10, 1933.-Decided May 8, 1933
1. To prevent the spread of an infectious disease, a State, if not prevented by action of Congress, may require that cattle shall not be
imported for dairy or breeding purposes unless accompanied by the
certificate of the proper sanitary official of the State of origin
certifying that the animals to be brought in, and also the herds from
which they come, are free of the disease. Pp. 349-350.
2. Congress 'will not be deemed to have superseded or excluded such
state action under the commerce clause, unless its intention to'do
so has been made definite and clear. P. 350.
3. The Cattle Contagious Diseases Act of March 3, "1905, applying
only to shipments from quarantined districts established by the
Secretary of Agriculture, does not conflict with the state inspection
measure here in question as applied to shipments not made from
such a district. P. 350.
4. The Cattle Contagious Diseases Act of February 2, 1903, is not
inconsistent with enforcement of a state inspection order as to
cattle which have not-been inspected and certified by. federal
authority. P. 350.
5. The expression in that Act of a purpose to exclude state inspection in cases where federal inspection has been made and certificate
issued-, strongly suggests that Congress intended not otherwise to
trammel enforcement of state quarantine measures. P. 351.
6. Much weight is to be given to the practical interpretation of the
Act of 1903 by the Department of Agriculture through its acquiescence in state measures to suppress the disease involved in this case.
P. 351.
7. Oregon-Washin-ton R. & N. Co. v. Washington, 270 U.S. 87, distinguished. P. 351.
2 F. Supp. 700, affirmed.

from a decree of the three-judge District Court
denying a temporary injunction and dismissing the bill
in a suit to restran a state official from preventing the
importation of plaintiffs' cattle.
APPEAL

MINTZ v. BALDWIN.
346

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. J. E. Messerschmidt, Assistant Attorney General
of Wisconsin, with whom Messrs. James E. Finnegan, Attorney General, and R. M. Orchard, Assistant Attorney
General, were on the brief, for appellants.
Mr. Henr- S. Manley, with whom Messers John J.
Bei.nett, Jr., Attorney General of New York, and Wendell P. Brown, Assistant Attorney General, were on the
brief, for appelle6.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER delivered the opinion of the Court.

Plaintiffs have' a large and valuable business in the
raising, and in the sale and transportation from Wisconsin to New York, of cattle for dairy and breeding purposes. Defendant, acting under state statutes, made and
is enforcing an order ' to guard against Bang's disease,
'It appearing that Bang's disease, an infectious and communicable
disease affecting domestic animals, exists outside of the state of New
York in areas from which cattle are or may be imported into this
state,
Now, therefore, to prevent the bringing into this state of *such disease, and in pursuance of the authority conferred upon me by Sections 72 and 74 of the Agriculture and Markets Law, I do hereby
order that all bovine animals coming into the State of New York shall
comply with the following requirements:
All cattle over six months of age imported for dairy or breeding
purposes shall come directly from herds certified to be free 'from
Bang's disease by the chief livestock sanitary official by whatever
name known of the country, province or state of origin. Such animals at the time of import must be accompanied by a certificate
authenticated by such livestock sanitary official showing the name
and address of the laboratory or person making the last blood test on
such herd with a complete statement of the results of such test on the
animals so imported. 'Such certificate shall describe each animal in
such manner as to enable its identification by ear tag number, name
and registration number in the case of pure breds and ear tag number
in the case of grades. Such certificate shall include or be accompanied by the certificate above, mentioned .as to freedom of the herd
from Bang's disease. A duplicate of such authenticated certificate or

348

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

bovine infectious abortion.

289 US.

The order requires that the,

cattle imported into New York for such purposes and
also the he'rds from which they come shall be certified to
be free from that disease by the chief'sanitary official of
the State of origin and that each shipment be accompanied by such a certificate.
Plaintiffs shipped 20 head from Wisconsin for delivery
to one Bartlett in New York. The animals were accompanied by a certificate which was sufficient as to them,
but there was nothing to show the freedom from Bang's
disease of the herd or herds from which they came. For
that reason defendant refused to permit them to be delivered, and so plaintiffs were compelled to take them out
of New York.
Plaintiffs brought this suit for a temporary and perpetual injunction to restrain enforcement of the order.,
Their claim, so far as here material, is that the order is
repugnant to the commerce clause because in conflict with
federal statutes relating to interstate transportation of
livestock. Cattle Contagious Diseases A-cts: February
2, 1903, 32 Stat. 791, 21 U.S.C.,§§ 111, 120-122; March 3,
1905, 33 Stat. 1264, 18 U.S.C., § 118, 21 U.S.C., §§ 123127.2 Their application for a temporary injunction was
brought on for hearing before a specially constituted court.
28 U.S.C., § 380. Defendant answered and, upon stipulation of the parties, plaintiffs' motion for interlocutory de.certificates must be filed with the Department of Agriculture and
Markets, Albany, N.Y., by the consignee at the time the shipment is
received, unless such duplicate has previously been filed -by the
consignor.
-This order shall not apply to the following classes of bovine
animals:
(a) Cattle for immediate slaughter, consigned to the public stockyards.
(b) Steers and beef type cattle for feeding and grazing purposes.
Both Acts were amended by the Act of February 7, 1928, 45
Stat. 59.

MINTZ v. BALDWIN.
346

•349

Opinion of the Court.

cree and defendant's motion to dismiss the complaint
were submitted upon the pleadings,' the affidavit of one of
the plaintiffs, the affidavit of defendant and affidavits of
others in his behalf. Temporary injunction was denied
and the bill was dismissed.
The court made special findings of fact which include
the following: Bang's disease prevails throughout the
United States and is one of the greatest limiting factors,
both as to reproduction and milk yield. Undulant fever
may be caused by the disease germs when introduced into,
the human body by drinking raw milk of an infected cow.
The disease may generally be diagnosed about 60 days
after infection though the time may be considerably
longer. Two blood tests are customarily made to detect
the disease but they may not disclose it in the incubative
stage. A substantial percentage of cattle imported into
New York under certificate that they have passed tests
for the disease are shown to have been infected. There
is a body of expert opinion that such cattle should only be
admitted when certified to have come from a clean herd,
and that by such a safeguard danger of" infection would
be greatly lessened. The disease is exceedingly. infectious
and the defendant concluded that in order to protect herd
owners and milk consumers he should require a certificate
not only that imported cattle showed no infection but that
they came from herds free from disease. This resulted
in the order. By reason of danger of infection from the
disease, many States of the Union have imposed restrictions upon the admission of cattle. The Federal Department of Agriculture, November 15, 1932, by letter to
defendant declared that the Department had issued no
quarantine or regulations pertaining to Bang's disease and
that its policy for the present is to leave'the control with
the various States.
The order is an inspection measure. Undoubtedly it
was promulgated in good faith and is appropriate for the,

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

prevention of further spread of the disease among dairy
cattle and to safeguard public health. It cannot be maintained therefore that the order so unnecessarily burdens
interstate transportation as to contravene the commerce
clause. Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 203, 204; Minnesota Rate Cases, 230 U.S. 352, 402, 406; Reid v. Colorado,
187 U.S. 137, 151, 152; Railroad Co. v. Husen, 95 U.S.
465; Henderson v. Mayor, 92 U.S. 259, 268. Unless limited by the exercise of federal authority under the commerce clause, the State has power to make and enforce the
order. The purpose of Congress to supersede or exclude
state action against the ravages of the disease is not
lightly to be inferred. The intention so to do must definitely and clearly appear. Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co. v.
Railroad Comm'n, 283 U.S. 380, 391; Carey v. South
Dakota, 250 U.S. 118, 122; Savage v. Jones, 225 U.S. 501,
533; Missouri,Kansas & Texas Ry. Co. v. Haber, 169 U.S.
613, 623.
Plaintiffs' contention that the order is in conflict with
the Act of March 3, 1905, is groundless. That Act applies
only to shipments from quarantined districts that it
authorizes the Secretary to establish. Plaintiffs' shipments are not made from such a district.
Examination of the Act of 1903 is necessary. It is a
measure intended to enable the Secretary to prevent the
spread of disease among cattle and other livestock. He
is authorized and directed from time to time to establish
such rules and regulations concerning interstate transportation from any place "where he may have reason to
believe such diseases may exist . . . and all such rules
and regulations shall have the force of law." "Whenever
any inspector or assistant inspector of the Bureau of
Animal Industry shall issue a certificate showing that
such officer had inspected any cattle . . . which were
about to be shipped . . . from such locality . . . and

MINTZ v. BALDWIN.
346

Opinion of the Court.

had found them free from

. .

communicable disease,

such animals, so inspected and certified, may be shipped,
driven, or transported from such place" in interstate
commerce "without further inspection or the exaction of
fees of any kind, except such as may at any time be
ordered or exacted by the Secretary of Agriculture
§ 1; 21 U.S.C., §§ 120, 121.
Plaintiffs' cattle were not inspected by, and no certificate was issued under, federal authority. Unless the
Act itself operates to prevent the enforcement of the order
the suit was rightly dismissed. The express exclusion of
state inspection extends. only to cases where federal inspection has been made and certificate issued. The
clause cannot be read to extend to other cases. The expression of purpose so to limit the exertion of state power
strongly suggests that Congress intended not otherwis6
to trammel the enforcement of state quarantine measures. United States v. Arredondo, 6 Pet. 691, 725. Much
weight is to be given to the practical interpretation of
the Act by the Federal Department through its acquiescence in the enforcement of state measures to suppress
Bang's disease. This case is governed by the principle on
which rests the decision in Asbell v. Kansas, 209 U.S. 251.
Defendant's order does not conflict with the Act of 1903.
Plaintiffs lean upon our decision in Oregon-Washington
R.& N. Co. v. Washington, 270 U.S. 87. But, as concerns
the question of conflict with state measures, the Act of
1903 is to be distinguished from the Plant Quarantine Act
there interpreted. Act of August 20, 1912, 37 Stat. 315, as
amended. 7 U.S.C., §§ 151-154, 156-165. In that case
upon full consideration of the latter we said (p. 99): 'All
the sections look to a complete provision for quarantine
against importation into the country and quarantine as
between the States under the direction and supervision
of the Secretary of Agriculture.

. .

. [p. 101.]

It [the

352

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Syllabus.

289 U.S.

Act] covers the whole field so far as the spread of the
plant disease by interstate transportation can be affected
and restrained ... The state laws of quarantine that affect interstate commerce and this federal law cannot stand
together. The relief sought to protect the different
States, in so far as it depends on the regulation of interstate commerce, must be obtained through application
to the Secretary of Agriculture."
Unlike the Act of 1903, the Plant Quarantine Act does
not, by specification of the cases in which action under
it shall be exclusive, disclose the intention of Congress
that, subject to the limitations defined, state measures
may be enforced. This difference is essential and controlling.
Plaintiffs' other contentions are not substantial and
need not be specifically discussed.
Affirmed.
UNITED STATES EX REL. GREATHOUSE ET
DERN, SECRETARY OF WAR, ET AL.

AL. V..

CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA,

No. 677. Argued April 11, 12, 193.-Decided May 8, 1933
1. Allowance of the remedy by mandamus is controlled by equitable
principles. P. 359.
2. The court, in its discretion, may refuse mandamus to compel the
doing of an idle act, or where public injury or embarrassment would
result from granting it. P. 360.
3. Owners of land on the Virginia side of the Potomac opposite Washington, claiming title to upland extending by accretion to present
high water, and the right, by common law and under the MarylandVirginia Compact of 1785, to wharf out in a manner approved by
the Chief of Army Engineeis a's
not obstructive of navigation, sought

by mandamus to compel the Secretary of War to approve under
the Act of March 3, 1899, to the end that they might consummate
a sale of the land under a contract made conditional upon such

