OHIO v. CHATTANOOGA BOILER CO.

439

Opinion of the Court

OHIO v. CHATTANOOGA BOILER & TANK CO.
No. 18, Original.

Argued April 10, 1933.-Decided May 22, 1933.

1. The Full Faith and Credit Clause does not .give any greater effect
to a state statute elsewhere than is given in the courts of the State
that enacted it. P. 443.
2. The Tennessee Workmen's Compensation Act, as construed by the
Supreme Court of the State, does not preclude recovery from an
employer, under the compensation act, and in the courts, of another
State, on account of an injury suffered there by an employee in the
course of his employment, although both employer and employee
were citizens of Tennessee, and the employer had its principal place
of business in Tennessee and the contract of employment was made
there. Bradford Electric Light Co. v. Clapper, 286 U.S. 145,

distinguished. P. 442.
Judgment for Plaintiff.
ORIGINAL action by the State of Ohio to recover from a
Tennessee corporation the amount paid out of an Ohioinsurance fund to satisfy an award against the corporation
in a proceeding under the Ohio Workmen's Compensation
Act.

Messrs. John W. Bricker, Attorney General of Ohio, and
Oscar A. Brown, Assistant Attorney General, for plaintiff.
Mr. FrancisJ. Wright for defendant.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The State of Ohio invokes, by an action at law, the
original jurisdiction of this Court to recover the sum of
$4,910.64 from the Chattanooga Boiler and Tank Com-

pany, a corporation organized in Tennessee and having
its principal place of business there. Reimbursement is
sought by the State of the amount paid from its insurance
fund to Mrs. Cora Tidwell, as compensation for the death

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

of her husband, an employee of the company, who was
killed at Ironton, Ohio, while engaged in erecting a tank.
The claim rests upon the Workmen's Compensation Act
of Ohio, § 1465-37-110 of the General Code,-a law of
the compulsory type held constitutional in Mountain
Timber Co. v. Washington, 243 U.S. 219.
The proceeding at bar is one to enforce a statutory cause
of action for liquidated damages, based on an award made
to Mrs. Tidwell by the Industrial Commission. " The employer relies, as its only defense, upon the full faith and
credit clause, invoking the rule declared in Bradford Electric Light Co. v. Clapper,286 U.S. 145. That defense was
not set up in the proceedings before the Ohio Commission.
The Ohio law does not provide for review of an award by
an appeal; but the employer is entitled to challenge, in an
action for reimbursement, the correctness of the award in
1

'Any employe whose employer has failed to comply with the
provisions of section 1465-69, who has been injured or has suffered
an occupational disease in the course of his employment, and which
was not purposely self-inflicted, or his dependents in case death has
ensued, may, in lieu of proceedings against his employer by civil action in the courts, as provided in section 1465-73, file his application
with the commission for compensation and the commission shall hear
and determine such application for compensation in like manner as
in other claims and shall make such award to such claimant as he
would be entitled to receive if such employer had complied with the
provisions of section 1465-69, and such employer shall pay such award
in the manner and amount fixed thereby or shall furnish to the industrial commission a bond, in such an amount and with such sureties
as the commission may require, to pay such employee such award in
the manner and amount fixed. thereby. In the event of the failure,
neglect or refusal of the employer to pay such compensation to the
person entitled thereto, or to furnish such bond, within a.period of
ten days after notification of such award, the same shall constitute
a liquidated claim for damages against such employer in the amount
so ascertained and fixed by the commission, and the commission shall
certify the same to the attorney general who shall forthwith institute
a civil action against such employer in the name of the state, for the
collection of such award." Ohio Gen. Code, § 1465-74.

OHIO v. CHATTANQOGA BOILER CO.
439

441

Opinion of the Court.

all respects save the amount of compensation. 2 Whether
the full faith and credit clause is applicable to proceedings
in this Court in the same'manner and to the same exteit
as to proceedings'in the courts of a Stat6 and in the lower
federal courts, we have no occasion to consider; for we are
of opinion that on the facts here presented the rule
declared in the Clapper case is not applicable.
The following facts were agreed: The employer never
had a regular place of business in Ohio; had not qualified
to do business there as a foreign corporation; and had not
complied with the provisions, of the Ohio Workmen's
Compensation Law, either by becoming a subscriber to
the state insurance fund or by electing to pay compensation direct to injured employees or to their dependents in
case of death. Both the company and Tidwell were residents of Tennessee; Tidwell had entered its employ there;
it was a term of the employment that he should serve also

in other States; and he had been brought to Ohio to erect
there the tank which had been fabricated in Tennessee.
Both the company and Tidwell had accepted the pro'Fassig v. State, 95 Oh. St. 232, 242; 116 N.E. 104; PittsburghCoal
Co. v. Industrial Commission, 108 Oh. St. 185, 189-191; 140 N.E. 684;
Slatmeyer v. l~dustrial Commission, 115 Oh..St. 654, 657, 661; 155
N.E. 484. The claimant, however, has a right of appeal, "if the commission finds that it has no jurisdiction of the claim and has no authority thereby to inquire into the extent of disability or the amount
of compensation," and denies the claim for that reason, and if the
claimant has sought a rehearing. Ohio General Code, § 1465-90; see
107 Ohio Laws, p. 162; State ex rel. Gilder v. Industrial Commission,
100 Oh. St. 500; 127 N.E. 595. Such an appeal is heard solely on the
'record made before the commission. See Grabler Mfg. Co. v. Wrobel,
125 Oh. St. 265; 181 N.E. 97.
The fact that the employer successfully aefends the action by the
State for reimbursement does not prejudice the right of the employee
to receive payment of the amount theretofore awarded by the commission. State ex rel. Thompson v. Industrial Commission, 121 Oh.
St. 17; 166 N.E. 806; State ex rel. Croy v. Industrial Com'nission, 123
Oh. St. 164, 173; 174 N.E. 345.

442

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 US.

visions of the Tennessee Workmen's Compensation Act,
a law of the elective type; and under that law his widow
would have been entitled to recover as compensation about
$2200. After Tidwell's death, his widow,, who had become a citizen and resident of Georgia, filed her application for compensation with the Industrial Commission of
Ohio. The company, appearing specially, challenged the
jurisdiction of the Commission. The objection was overruled; the company made no defense before that tribunal;
and the Commission found that the company was an employer within the meaning of the Ohio law; that the injury was sustained accidentally in the course of the employment; and that the widow had not before filing the
claim begun a court action against the employer on account of the death. Upon failure of the company to pay
the award, it was paid from the state insurance fund.
In the Clappercase it was held that the Vermont Workmen's Compensation Act was a defense to an action
brought in New Hampshire under the New Hampshire
Act to recover for the death in that State of a Vermont
resident who had been employed by a Vermont company,
pursuant to a contract made in Vermont; because: "It
clearly was the purpose of the Vermont Act 8 to preclude
'The provision is as follows: "Right to Compensation Exclusive:
The rights and remedies granted by the provisions of this chapter
to an employee on account of a personal injury for which he is entitled to compensation under the provisions of this chapter, shall
exclude all other rights and remedies of suph employee, his personal
representatives, dependents or next of kin, at common law or otherwise on account of such injury. Employees who hire workmen within
this state to work outside of the state, may agree with such workmen
that the remedies under the provisions of this chapter shall be exclusive as regards injuries received outside this state by accident arising out of and in the course of such employment, and all contracts
of hiring in this state shall be presumed to include such an agreement."
Vt, Gen, Laws, c. 241, § 5774.

OHIO v. CHATTANOOGA BOILER CO.
439

443

Opinion of the Court.

any recovery by proceedings brought in another State for
injuries received in the course of a Vermont employment."
286 U.S. at 153." The Tennessee Act is different. It is
true that it provides that "when an accident happens
while the employe is elsewhere than in this State, which
would entitle him or his dependents to compensation had
it happened in this State, the employe or his dependents
shall be entitled to compensation under this act if the contract of employment was made in this State, unless otherwise expressly provided by said contract," Tenn. Code,
§ 6870; and that "the rights and remedies herein granted
to an employee subject to this Act on account of personal
injury or death by accident shall exclude other rights and
remedies of such employe, his personal representative,
dependents or next of kin, at common law or otherwise,
on account of such injury or death." Id., § 68,59. But, as
construed and applied by the highest court of Tennessee,
the statute does not preclude recovery under the law of
another State. And the full faith and credit clause does
not require that, greater effect be given the Tennessee
statute elsewhere than is given in the courts of that State.
Compare Allen v. Alleghany Co., 196 U.S. 458, 465; Robertsor v. Pickrell, 109 U.S. 608, 610-611; Board of Public
Works v. Columbia College, 17 Wall. 521, 529.
The decision in Tidwell v. ChattanoogaBoiler & Tank
Co., 163 Tenn. 420, 648; 43 S.W. (2d) 221; 45 id., 528,
shows that the provision of the Tennessee'law making
its remedy an exclusive one is not applicable on the facts
here presented. In that case, Mrs. Tidwell brought
(while the application in Ohio was pending and before
4

Had the question been merely the comtruction of the statute, no
issue under the full faith and credit clause would have arisen. Banholzer v. New York Life Ins. Co., 178 U.S. 402; Johnson v. New York
Life Ins. Co., 187 US. 491, 495-496; Pennsylvania Fire Ins. Co. v.
Gold Issue Mining Co., 243 U.S, 93, 96-97.

44

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Syllabus.

289 U.S.

the award) an action in Tennessee to recover compensation under the Tennessee Act. The court held that by
bringing the Ohio proceedings the widow had renounced
her right under the Tennessee Act; and final judgment
was entered for the company shortly before the action at
bar was begun. The opinion states that the suit is one
upon contract; that "the sole defense interposed is the
proceedings in Ohio "; that the institution of the proceedings in Ohio "was a clear renunciation or disaffirmance
of the contract "; "that the election thus made was irrevocable, because the petitioner [Mrs. Tidwell] has taken
the benefit of the Ohio suit and the defendant [the Company] will doubtless take the detriment of that suit ";
and the court added: "Not prejudging another case, but
merely by way of answer to argument made in this case,
we may observe that defendant's way of escape from the
Ohio proceedings and award is not apparent, after the
pleading by the defendant of such proceeding and award
to defeat its liability herein." In view of this decision, we
have no occasion to consider differences in phraseology between the Tennessee statute and that of Vermont.
Judgment for the plaintiff.
EX PARTE LA PRADE.
MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE PETITION FOR A WRIT OF
MANDAMUS.

No. 21, Original. Argued April 17, 18, 1933.-Decided May 22, 1933.
1. A suit against a state officer in a federal court, alleging that a state
statute is unconstitutional, that the defendant threatens to enforce
it by suing colori officii for drastic penalties prescribed by the
statute for its violation, and so will subject the plaintiff to irreparable injury unless enjoined, i§ a suit against the defendant as an
individual. Ex parto Young, 209 U.S. 123. P. 455,

