OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Syllabus.

289 U.S.

tial fee if he found an offender guilty, and none in case of
acquittal. Tumey's interest was direct ind obvious; but
the possibility that the extent of the notary's services and
the amount of his compensation may be affected by his
ruling is too remote and incidental to vitiate his official
action. Moreover, his action lacks the finality which attached to the judgment in the Tumey case, as it is subject
to review in accordance with ยง 11514.
No. 784, judgment affirmed.
Nos. 785 and 786, appeals dismissed.

QUERCIA v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIRST CIRCUIT.

No. 701.

Argued May 9, 1933.-Decided May 29, 1933.

1. The right of a trial judge in a federal court to comment upon the
evidence and express his opinion of it while making clear to the jury
that they are not bound by his opinion and that all matters of
fact are'submitted to their determination,-is an essential commonlaw prerogative maintained by the Constitution. P. 469.
2. This privilege, however, does not permit the judge to distort or
add to the evidence; and, because of his great influence on the jury,
he must use great care to be fair and not mislead, and must
studiously avoid deductions and theories not warranted by evidence.
P. 470.
3. It is important that hostile comment of the judge in a criminal
case should not render vain the privilege of the accused to testify
in his own behalf. P. 470.
4. The court charged the jury:
"And now I am going to tell you what I think of the defendant's
testimony. You may have noticed, Mr. Foreman and gentlemen,
that he wiped his hands during his testimony. It, is a rather curious
thing, but that is almost always an indication of lying. Why it
should be so we don't know, but that is the fact. I think that
every single word that man said, except when he agreed with the
Government's testimony, was a lie."

QUERCIA v., UNITED STATES.

467

Views of the United States.

466

Held error, and not cured by a warning that the judge's opinion
of the evidence Was not binding on the jury and that if they did
not agree with it they should find the defendant not guilty.
62 F. (2d) 746, reversed.
CERTI6RARI *

to review" the affirmance of a sentence

under the'Federal Narcotics Act.
Mr. Essex S. Abbott for petitioner.
The Solicitor General did not oppose the granting of
the vrit of certiorari 'to determine the question here decided. His position taken at the argument is shown by
the following summary.
The function of a federal judge 'n a criminal case to
advise *the jury upon the facts and to express his opinions concerning the credibility of witnesses and the guilt
or innocence of the accused, can not be questioned. The
exercise of this judicial function in * proper case is one of
the most important duties which a trial judge has to
perform in a federal court, and the concept of trial by
jury embodied in the Constitution includes this function as one of its essential elements. The judge may not;
however, usurp the functions of the jury; and if his instructions may fairly, be said to have. been coercive upon
the jurors in their consideration of facts determinative'
of their conclusion upon the question pf guilt, ihe charge
is erroneous, even though in form it is an expression of
the court's opinion and the jurors are told that, after
all, they are to determine the facts.
We think a portion of the charge complained of was
improper, and that this Court should determine whether
it was unfair and coercive. The question is peculiarly
one for the judgment of this Court, in the exercise of its
supervisory control over the inferior federal 6ourts. We
'

See Table of Cases Reported in this volume,

468

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

therefore submit the case without contention either that
the judgment should be affirmed or that it should be
reversed.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES

delivered the opinion of'

the Court.
Petitioner was convicted of violating the Narcotic Act.
26 U.S.C., 692, 705. The conviction was affirmed by the
Circuit Court of Appeals, 62 F. (2d) 746, and this Court
granted certiorari.
Reversal is sought upon the ground that the instructions of the trial court to the jury exceeded the bounds of
fair comment and constituted prejudicial error. -After
testimony by agents of the Government in support of the
indictment, defendant testified, making a general denial
of all charges. His testimony is not set forth in the record. Defendant's motion for a direction of verdict and
requests for rulings substantially, to the same effect were
denied. The court instructed the jury concerning the
rules as to presumption of innocence and reasonable
doubt, and stated generally that its expression of opinion
on the evidence was not binding on the jury and that it
was their duty to disregard the court's opinion as to
the facts if the jury did not agree with it. The court
ruled as matter of law that if the jury believed the evidence for the Government it might find the defendant
guilty. The court then charged the jury as follows:
"And now I am going to tell you what I think of the
defendant's testimony. You may have noticed, Mr.
Foreman and gentlemen, that he wiped his hands during
his testimony. It is rather a curious thing, but that is
almost always an indication of lying. Why it should be
so we don't know, but that is the fact. I think that every
single word that man said, except when he agreed with
the Government's testimony, was a he.

QUERCIA v. UNITED STATES.
466

469

Opinion of the Court.

"Now, that opinion is an opinion of evidence and is,
not binding on you, and if you don't agree with it, it is
your duty to find him not guilty."
To this charge the defendant excepted.
In a trial by jury in a federal court, the judge is not
a mere moderator, but is the governor of the trial for
the purpose of assuring its proper conduct and of determining questions of law. Herron v. Southern Pacific
Co., 283 U.S. 91, 95. In charging the jury, the rial judge
is not limited to instructions of an abstract sort. It is
within his province, whenever he thinks it necessary, to
assist the jury in arriving at a just conclusion by explaining and commenting upon the evidence, by drawing their
attention to the parts of it which he thinks important;
and he may express his opinion upon the facts, provided
he makes it clear to the jury that all matters of fact are
submitted to their determination. Carver v. Jackson, 4
Pet. 1, 80; Vicksburg & Meridian R. Co. v. Putnam, '118
U.S. 545, 553; United States v. Philadelphia& Reading
R. Co., 123 U.S. 113, 114; Capital Traction Co. v. Hof,
174 U.S. 1, 13, 14, Pattonv. United States, 281 U.S. 276,
2881 Sir Matthew Hale thus described the function of the
trial judge at common law: "Herein he is able, in matters of law emerging upon the evidence, to direct them;
and also, in matters of fact to give them a great light and.
assistance by his weighing the evidence before them, and
observing where the question and knot of the business
lies, and by showing them his opinion even in matters
of fact; which is a great advantage and light to laymen."
Hale, History of the Common Law, 291, 292. Under the
Federal Constitution the essential prerogatives of the
trial judge as they were secured by the rules of the common law are maintained in the federal courts. Vicksburg
& Meridian R. Co. v. Putnam, supra; St. Louis, I. M.
& S. Ry. Co. v.Vickers, 122 U.S. 360, 363; Slocum v. New

-

470

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

York Life Insurance Co., 228 U.S. 364, 397; Herron v.
Southern Pacific Co., supra; Gasoline Products Co. v.
Champlin Co., 283 U.S. 494, 498.
This privilege of the judge to comment on the facts has
its inherent limitations. His discretion is not arbitrary
and uncontrolled, but judiciai, to be exercised in conformity with the standards governing the judicial office.
In commenting upon testimony he may not assume the
role of a witness. He may analyze and dissect the evidence, but he may not either distort it or add to it. His
privilege of comment in order to give appropriate assistance.to the jury is too important to be left without safeguards against abuses. The influence of the trial judge
on the jury "is necessarily and prop.crly of great weight"
and "his lightest word or intimation is received with
deference, and may prove controlling." This Court has
accordingly emphasized the duty of the trial judge to use
great care that an expression of opinion upon the evidence
" should be so given as not to miglead, and especially that
it should not be one-sided "; that "deductions and theories not warranted by the evidence should be studiously
avoided." Starr v. United States, 153 U.S. 614, 626;
Hickory v. United States, 160 U.S. 408, 421-423. He may
not charge the jury "upon a supposed or conjectural state
of facts, of which no evidence has been offered." United
States v. Breitling, 20 How. 252, 254, 255. It is important that hostile comment of the judge should not render
vain the privilege of the .accused to testify in his own
behalf. Hicks v. United States, 150 U.S. 442, 452; Allison v. United States, 160 U.S. 203, 207, 209, 210. Thus, a
statement in a charge to the jury that "no one who was
conscious of innocence would resort to concealment," was
.regarded as tantamount to saying "that all men who did
so were necessarily guilty," and as magnifying and distorting " the proving power of the facts on the subject of
-tbe. conceamprnt." Hickory v. United States, supra.

QUERCIA v. UNITED STATES.
466

471

Opinion of the Court.

And the further charge that the proposition that "the
wicked flee when no man pursueth, but the innocent are
as bold as a lion," was "a self-evident proposition"
which the jury could "take as an axiom and apply it"
to the case in hand, was virtually an instruction \that
flight was conclusive proof of guilt. Such a charge " ptit
every deduction which could be drawn against the accused
from the proof of concealment and flight, and omitted
or obscured the converse aspect"; it "deprived the
jury of the light requisite to safely use these facts as
means to the ascertainment of truth." Id. So where
the trial judge, in referring to the defendant's story of
self-defense, said-"All men would say that. No man
created would say otherwise when confronted with such
circumstances," this Court held that the comment practically deprived the defendant of the benefit of his testimony. "It was for the jury to test the credibility of the
defendant as a witness, giving his testimony such weight
under all the circumstances as they thought it entitled to,
as in the instance of other witnesses, uninfluenced by instructions which might operate to strip him of the competency accorded by the law." Allison v. United States,
supra. Similarly, where no testimony had been offered
as to the previous character of the accused, it was prejudicial error for the trial court to comment unfavorably
-upon his general character. Mullen v. United States, 106
Fed. 892, 895,-per Day, C. J. See, also, Parker v. United
States, 2 F. (2d) 710, 711; O'Shaughnessy v. United
States, 17 F. (2d) 225, 228; Cook v. United States, 18 F.
(2d) 50; Malaga v. United States, 57 F. (2d) 822.
In the instant case, the trial judge did not analyze the
evidence; he added to it, and he based his instruction
upon his own addition. Dealing with a mere mannerism
of the accused in giving his testimony, the judge put his
own experience, with all the weight that could be attached
to it, in the scale against the accused. He told the jury

472

OCTOBER TERM, 1932..
Syllabus.

289 U.S.

that "wiping" one's hands while testifying was "almost
always an indication of lying." Why it should be so, he
was unable to say, but it was "the fact." Ie did not review the evidence to assist the juryin reaching tWe truth,
but in a sweeping denunciation repudiated as a lie all
that the accused had said in his own behalf which conflicted with the statements of the Government's witnesses..
This was error and we cannot doubt that it was highly
prejudicial.
Nor do we think that the error was cured by the statement of the trial judgethat his opinion of the evidence
was not binding on the jury and that if they did not agree
with it they should find the defendant not guilty. - His
definite and concrete assertion of fact, which he had made
with all the persuasiveness of judicial utterance, as to the
basis of his opinion, was not withdrawn. His characterization of the manner and testimony of the accused was
of a sort most likely to remain firmly lodged in the memory of the jury and to excite a prejudice which would preclude a fair and dispassionate consideration of the evidence. Starr v. United States, supra; Mullen v. United
States, supra;Wallace v. United States, 291 Fed. 972, 974;
Parker v. United States, supra; O'Shaughnessy v. United
States, supra;Leslie v. United States, 43 F. (2d) 288, 289.
Reversed.
The judgment must be
CONRAD, RUBIN & LESSER v. PENDER, TRUSTEE'
IN BANKRUPTCY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS -FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 718.

Argued May 9, 1933.-Decided May 29, 1933

1. Payments made by the debtor in contemplation of bankruptcy

"to an attorney and counselor at law, solicitor in equity, or proctor
in admiralty," " for services to be rendered," are subject to be sum-.

