OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Syllabus.

289 US.

It may be true that if Volpe had remained within the
United States, he could not have been expelled because
of his conviction of crime in 1925, more than five years
after his original entry; but it does not follow that after
he voluntarily departed he had the right of reentry. In
sufficiently plain language Congress has declared to the
contrary.
With hesitation, the Solicitor General suggested here
that possibly the cause had abated, since S. D. Smith is
no longer District Director of Immigration at Chicago,
where he formerly held the petitioner in custody. The
.record indicates that Smith has continued to be an officer
in the Department of Labor, although not presently stationed at Chicago. So far as we are advised, under existing regulations, he may carry into effect the order of deportation. Moreover, the cause was permitted to Proceed
without question, as instituted, long after Smith is said
to have left Chicago; and the petitioner insists that no.
cause has been shown for abatement. The point, we
think, lacks merit.
The judgment is

Affirmed.
NATIONAL SURETY CO.

ET AL.

v. CORIELL ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 8. Argued .December 15, 1932.-Decided May 22, 1933.
1. It is improper for the District Court in a receivership case to pass
upon the wisdom and fairness of a plan of reorganization and the
rights of non-assenting creditors, without definite, detailed- and
authentic information. Held that a decree of approval, made without any trustworthy appraisal of assets, or account showing the
result of recent operations of the business; without an accurate
determination of the number of creditors, the amounts of their re-

NATIONAL SURETY CO. v. CORIELL.
426

427

Opinion of the Court.

spective claims, and the extent to which collateral given or payments made to some of them might be deemed preferences,--must

be reversed. P. 435.
2. The error of the District Court in not requiring such relevant information before approving a plan of reorganization over objections of dissenting creditors, is not cured by a direction from the
Circuit Court of Appeals a year later, declaring those creditors
entitled to an aliquot share of what, it may be estimated, the
property 'would have brought at public sale, and allowing them
recovery accordingly if assets to satisfy their claims are then available. P. 436.
54 F. (2d) 255, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 286 U.S. 537, to review the reversal tf a
decree approving a plan of reorganization in a receivership
case.
Mr. Charles H. Tuttle, with whom Messrs. Gregory
Hankin and Saul S. Myers -were on the brief, for
petitioners.
Mr. John S. Sheppard, with whom Messrs. Joseph Glass
and Jerome Weinstein were on the brief, for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIs delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This case involves the validity of the reorganization of
Morris White, Inc., pursuant to a decree of the federal
court for southern New York. The old company, a New
York corporation, is said to have been the largest manufacturer in the world of ladies' handbags and fancy leather
goods. For many years prior to 1930 the business had
been very profitable. Then, the company becarme financially embarrassed, partly through cancellation of orders
due to the general depression, partly through withdrawals of large sums by Morris White for investments in
stocks and real estate. The bank creditors intervened;

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 US.

and for nearly six months prior to April 6, 1931, the business was conducted by White under their financial super-,
vision and controL On that day, they caused to be
brought in the name of Coriell, a citizen of New Jersey,
this suit through which the reorganization was effected.
. The bill alleged that the company's assets exceed
$4,000,000 and that its liabilities are approximately
$1,000,000; that no quick assets are available to meet
liabilities immediately payable; and that unless a receiver
is appointed the assets will be wasted and the business
destroyed through proceedings of creditors seeking paymeirt. The prayers were that a receiver be appointed with
power to carry on the business; and that, at the proper
time, the properties be sold for the benefit of creditors, or
be returned to the company. On the same day on which
the bill was filed, the defendant answered admitfing its
allegations and assenting to the appointment of a temporary receiver. The Irving Trust Company was appointedi
The receiver employed* as counsel the solicitor for the
-complainant.
.The receiver called promptly a meeting of the creditors;
and a committee there elected examined into the company's affairs. The committee prepared a plan of reorganization-which was submitted to the court in the form
of an offer by Lily White (wife of Morris) to purchase all
the assets. The plan (with later amendments) provided
that all -the purchased assets should be transferred, subject
to existing liens, to a- new corporation called the Morris
White Handbag. Corp.; that all creditors of the old company having claims not exceeding $100 be paid in cash;
that the claims of creditors having priority by law, the
fees and expenses of the receiver, the counsel fees and
other expenses of the Creditors' Committee, be paid or assumed by the new company; and that all other creditors
should receive in"payment of their claims 20 per cent in

NATIONAL SURETY CO. v. CORIELL.
426

429

Opinion of the Court.

unsecured notes of the new company and 80 per cent in
its preferred stock. No new money was to be embarked
in the enterprise by either the Whites or others. Morris
White (who had created and managed the business and
owned all of the stock of the old company except a minority interest held by his brother, an employee) was to
agree to serve the new company for three years at a salary
not exceeding $60,000 a year. He and his wife were to
have all of the common stock and, through control of the
board of directors, substantial control of the new corporation. Accompanying the offer was an accountants' certificate, unitemized, stating that the liabilities shown
on the books of the company as of April 6, the date
of the appointment of the temporary receiver, were
$1,072,000.30.
On May 12, 1931, the District Court entered an order
requiring creditors to show cause on May 26th why that
offer should not be accepted; and to consider and act upon
any other offer which might then be made. On May 26th
and 27th hearings were held. The receiver made no recommendation. The committee made no written report.
Its counsel, who represented also several of the bank
creditors, recommended, on its behalf, acceptance of the
plan. He stated that the committee believed, in view of
Morris White's record of achievement, that he would
within a few years earn profits sufficient to pay all the creditors amounts equal to their existing claims, if he were
permitted to resume the control and management of the
business, with the prospect of complete ownership. The
bank creditors and the larger merchandise creditors urged
acceptance of the plan. The federal and state governments offered to agree that the taxes due them might be
paid by the new company in instalments.
The receiver had made no inventory and had not determined the amoun of the liabilities. No one had made

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court,

289 U.S.

even an estimate of the value of the assets as of the date
of the order to show cause, or, except as stated below, as
of the date of the hearing. No figures were presented to
indicate the course and results of the business while under the informal supervision and control of the banks, during the five months prior to the appointment of the temporary receiver; or during the seven weeks following his
appointment. But that the bill had grossly overstated
the assets was obvious. Instead of assets exceeding
$4,000,000 as there alleged, it appeared that those available were worth, at most, a fourth of that amount. Items
aggregating $2,277,714.89 consisted of obligations and securities of associated and subsidiary companies, which
were probably worthless. The substantial assets consisted, according to the books, of the following items:
Merchandise and supplies which had cost $1,241,208.09;
bills receivable aggregating $301,852.12, of which $251,409.42 were pledged to the banks; machinery entered as
having cost, less depreciation, $74,265.01; and $5,614.60
cash. Based on an appraisal made by a subcommittee
shortly after the appointment of the temporary receiver,
the Creditors' Committee estimated the value of the merchandise as of that date to be $717,000, on the basis of a
continuing business. Counsel for the receiver, estimating
the value of the merchandise as of the date of the hearing,
on the basis of a continuing business, stated that it was
worth about $462,500; and that there was cash on hand
in the amount of $54,000 and unpledged accounts receivable of $67,000. He stated that the committee estimated
the value of the merchandise, if disposed of at forced sale,
to be $357,000. Another statement was made to the effect
that the committee estimated the total value of the assets
at forced sale to be $182,000. Whether this figure included the assets pledged to the banks was left in doubt.
The court was told that Morris White had an informal

NATIONAL SURETY CO. v. CORIELL.
426

431

Opinion of the Court.

assurance that banks would give to the new company the
necessary temporary accommodations required for working capital.
A substantial minority of the creditors objected strenfously to the acceptance of the plan. The dissenting
creditors urged, in support of their objections, that no
inventory and valuation of the assets had been made by
the receiver or under any order of the court; and that
not even the amount and character of the liabilities had
been determined by the receiver, or otherwise by the court.
They questioned whether bank creditors had not received
(while they were in substantial control of the business)
unlawful preferences. They asked that time be given for
the appropriate determination of these matters and for
further investigation as to the merits of the plan. They
pointed out that under it the banks were to receive notes
and preferred stock to the full amount of their claims,
although they held assigned accounts as collateral. And
they protested against disposing of the assets otherwise
than for cash after public sale and without competitive
bids being sought. The committee of creditors insisted
that any delay would be disastrous, the business being
seasonal.
The District Judge announced, at the close of the hearing on May 27th; that he would direct the receiver to
accept the Lily White offer. An order making permanent
the receivership was entered later. On June 15, 1931,
pursuant to the decree, the assets were transferred to the
Morris White Handbags Corp. And it entered upon the
conduct of the business, although application for allowance of an appeal had been promptly made by the National Surety Company and other dissenting creditors.
Five months later the Circuit Court of Appeals reversed
the decree of the District Court and remanded the cause

432

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

for further proceedings in accordance with its opinion.
54 F. (2d) 255.
The Court of Appeals held, among other things, that
creditors. who refuse to assent to a plan of reorganization
have "the right to share immediately in a forced sale of
the corporation's assets"; and that a court of equity
lacks "power to compel a creditor of any kind to accept
stocks or promises to pay in the future in full extinguishment of his claim, without being afforded the alternative
of teceiving his proportionate share of the proceeds of the
conventional sale of the property in cash." It declared
that ordinarily dissenting creditors would be "entitled to
a public sale with competitive bidding, the assets to be
sold to the highest bidder "; that this right must be fully
protected; but that, in the case at bar, this right could
be fully protected without setting aside he sale niade to
the new corporation; that the right of the dissenting creditors would b'e protected "by having an appraisal of theL
value of their respective claims made before a master, to
be appointed, who will take an.account of the assets and
liabilities of Morris White, Inc., ascertaining the value of
the assets as if sold at a public sale "; by the payment to
them of "their proportionate share of the price which
would have been realized at such sale after deduction of
administrative expenses "; and by providing that if "payment is not thus made in cash, the several amounts which
appellants are found entitled to may be collected by a
sale of the property transferred to the new corporation."
Pursuant' to the mandate of the Circuit Court of Appeals, the District Court entered on.February 2, 1932, a
decree which ordered that (subject to the orders to be
made)," the reorganization plan approved by it June 15,
1931, be allowed to continue in operation and the Morris
White Handbags Corporation be and is hereby permitted
to continue in the conduct of the business heretofore

NATIONAL SURETY CO. v. CORIELL.
426

433

Opinion of the Court.

transferred to it. ....
On February 23, 1932, the dissenting creditors petitioned for a writ of certiorari to review the decree of the Cicuit Court of Appeals entered
November 23, 1931; and the writ was granted on May 12,
1932. 286 U.S. 537.
'The decree entered February 2, 1932, modified that of June 15.
1931, as follows:
(A) It reversed the same so far as it affects the rights of the Na,tional Surety Company and the other dissenting, creditors.
(B) It provided that a s'pecial master be appointed who shall:
(1) "Ascertain the several amounts of [their] respective claims,"
among other things.
(2) " Make an appraisal of'the realizable value of said claims as of
June 15, 1931 " and that to this end the Special Master "shall ascertain and report the then realizable value of said assets as if sold at a
public sale; and shall also take account, of the liabilities of Morris
White, Inc., as of April 6, 1931, and shall ascertain and report which,
if any, of said liabiliti s are entitled to priority of payment; and
shall also take ah account of the obligations of the Receiver herein
and of the expenses of administration of the estate herein incurred
up to the fifteenth day of June, 1931; and shall determine through
examination of officers and/or agents of the defendant and/or The
Morris White Handbags Corporation, the nature, quality and amount
of inventory on hand as of such dates as may be pertinent to this
inquiry;
(3) "Ascertain and report the' aliquot share of the assets to be,
awarded and paid in cash, subject to further order of this court, to
National Surety Company [and to the other dissenting creditors] out
of the sum ascertained' to be the amount that would have been
realized for the assets of Morris White, Inc., pn June 15, 1931, had a
public sale of said assets been held, after the deduction 'from said
sum of such portion of the .obligations of the Receiver and the expenses of administration herein as would have been properly chargeable against the s'tate had the assets of Morris White, Inc., been
liquidated by sale, and the proceeds distributed to creditors in ordinary-course, and after-the deduction ot the liabilities of Morris White,
Inc., entitled to priority of payment; or'at the option of each of them
the preferred stock and notes heretofore offered to them, pursuant to
said offer of Lily White, may and shall in like manner be valued by
15450--33-

28

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

The petitioners contend that the District Court had
no power to deprive the dissenting creditors of a cash
share in the assets; that the amount of this share should
have been determined by a public sale; that the right of
dissenting creditors was not protected by the decree directing an appraisal (in, 1932) of the assets as if disposed- of
at public sale on June 15, 1931; and that they were entitled to recover their claims in full. The respondents insist that the District Court had power to compel participation in the reorganization without the alternative of a
share of the assets in cash; and that even if the District
Court lacked that power, the modification of the decree
by the Circuit Court of Appeals gave full protection to
the rights of the dissenting creditors. We. have no ocsaid Special Master, as of the date the reorganization plan became
effective, to be awarded and to be paid in cash to them or any of
them subject to the further order of this court; ...
(4) "That pending the entry of an order of this court upon the
report of the said Special Master and for the purpose of securing to
National Surety Company [and the other dissenting creditors] payment by the said The Morris White Handbags Corp., out of the assets
transferred to the said The Morris White Handbags Corp., pursuant
to the order herein dated June 15, 1931, of the amounts which may
be determined to be paid to them in cash upon their respective claims,
a lien is hereby imposed upon all the assets of Morris White, Inc.,
transferred to and remaining in the possession of said The Morris
White Handbags Corp., pursuant to said order dated June 15, 1931;
except that as to such of said assets as the said The Morris White
Handbags Corp. shall hereafter in good faith transfer in the regular
course of its business for fair and proper consideration, said lien shall
attach to the proceeds of such transfer or successive transfers of such
proceeds, and the said The Morris White Handbags Corp. is hereby
enjoined and restrained subject to the further order of this court,
from transferring any of said assets oi Morris White, Inc., remaining
in its possession except in good faith in the regular course of its business and for fair and proper consideration, unless the said The Mor' ,
White Handbags Corp. shall file a bond or other security in such
amount as may be fixed and approved by this court after hearing *au
parties in interest; . . ,"

NATIONAL SURETY CO. v. CORIELL.
426

Opinion of the Court.

casion to pass upon any of these contentions.2 For we
are of opinion that the decree approving the plan should
have been reversed in its entirety because the procedure
pursued by the District Court was improper.
First. The non-assenting creditors were entitled to have
the plan and their objections considered in an orderly
way, and to a decree based on adequate data. The'District Court had before it, in support of the plan, only informal, inadequate and conflicting ex parte assertions unsupported by testimony. It undertook to pass upon the
wisdom ahd fairness of the plan of reorganization, and the
rights of non-assenting creditors. For the proper disposition of these questions definite, detailed, and authentic information was essential. Such information was
Wholly lacking. The receiver submitted no facts and
made no recomnendations. There was no evidence on
which the court could have found even, that a majority
of the unsecured creditors favored the plan.' There was
'Thp.petitioners made the further contention that the court should
have ordered the case to proceed in bankruptcy, or at least should
not have permitted it to continue in equity. This question was not
before us on the writ of certiorari. The order of June 3, 1931, making the receivership permanent, recited that there was no opposition
to the order. It was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals, and
certiorari was denied by this Court. 286 U.S. 553.
'Even the number of creditors appears to have been undetermined. The number was stated by Mr. White to be 150, in addition
to 5 bank creditors. The president of one of the creditor banks
gave the number as 150 including the. banks. Counsel for Morris
White, Inc., stated that there were 245 creditors, " not 145." Counsel
for the receiver stated that there were 19.3 creditors whose claims
were each less than $100. Counsel for Morris White, Inc., gave the
number of such creditors as 50 or 100. The amount represented by
the creditors' committee appears likewise to have been in doubt.
Counsel for the committee stated that it represented merchandise
claims in the amount of $178,000. Counsel for Morris White, Inc.,
stated that the committee represented merchandise claims of over
$300,000; later he gave the figure as $180,000 out of $442,000 of

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

no valuation of the assets by a disinterested appraiser; no
account of the results of the operations of the business
during the five months in which it was under the control
of the banks; no account of the result of the operations
under the receivership; and no dependable schedule of
liabilities of the corporation showing the number of creditors, the amount owed to each, and the collateral heid.
A trustworthy appraisal; an account showing the result of
recent operations of the business; an accurate determination of the number of creditors, the amounts of their respective claims, and the extent to which collateral given
or payments made to them 'might be deemed preferences;
these were facts which might have influenced the court in
deciding whether the plan should be approved or should
be approved only upon a public sale. The failure to require relevant data before deciding whether the plan
should be approved was not cured by the declaration of
the Circuit Court of Appeals that the dissenting creditors,
were entitled to an aliquot share-of what, a year later, it
might be estimated the property would have brought at a
public sale, and authorizing them to recover that amount,
if assets to satisfy their claims were then available.
Second. Every important determination by the court
in receivership proceedings calls for an informed, independent judgment. In the case at bar special reasons existed why the court should have secured adequate, trustworthy information. The proceeding was not an adversary one; and jurisdiction rested wholly upon the consent
of the defendant corporation.' The court did not have
merchandise claims. At the argument in this Court it was stated
that, at the hearing before the District Court pursuant. to the mandate of the Circuit Court of Appeals, a new claim against Morris
White, Inc., in the sum of $1,025,000 was presented and that a rule
to show cause issued.
'Compare Harkin v. Brundage, 276 U.S. 36, 52, 55; Michigan v.
Michigan Trust Co., 286 U.S. 334, 345; Municipal Financial Corp.

NATIONAL SURETY CO. v. CORIELL.
426

437

Opinion of the C6urt.

the advice of its receiver. The creditors who approved
of the plaff of reorganization appeared to be actuated in
their recommendations and desires by considerptions not
applicable to the dissenting creditors. For the bank creditors, unlike the others, were to a large extent secured by
the pledge of assets and may, moreover, have received
preferences which would be held invalid if bankruptcy'
proceedings were instituted. The assenting merchandise
creditors were interested not merely as creditors but as
sellers of goods; and it appeared that at least some were
far more interested in expected profits from future sales
than in possible dividends on their existing claims. On
the other hand, the dissenting creditors, largely credit
indemnity companies, were anxious to have determined
the amaounts of their risks and to obtain as promptly as
possible dividends in cash..
The respondents directed attention to the proposed
amendments to the Bankruptcy Act, which have been enacted in part since the argument,5 and, as justifying the
procedure. challenged, urge that those amendments confer power on the District Courts in Bankruptcy similar
to that xercise4, ir the case at bar. But this is ndt true.
Those amendments relating to compositions and extenv. Bankus Corp., 45 F. (2d) 902; Kingsport Press, Inc. v. Brief English Systems, Inc., 54 F. (2d) 497, 501.
'Act of March 3, 1933, c. 204, ยง 1, 47 Stat. 1467. Particular at-

tention was called to the proposed section providing for corporate
reorganizations. This section was not enacted. It was intended as
an extension of the principle of composition agreements. "that the
views of a substantial majority of the creditors should control the
measures to be adopted for the protection and preservation of their
rights in the failing business, subject at all times to a finding by
the court that what they propose is fair and equitable to the minority."

See Report of Attorney General on Bankruptcy Law and

Practice, Appendix to Message of the President Recommending the
Strengthening of Procedure in the Judicial System, Sen. Doe. No.
65, 72d Cong., 1st Sess., p. 90,

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

sions for insolvent debtors make detailed provision for an
inventory by the receiver; for a schedule of liabilities;
for an examination of the debtor; and for fixing, with
reference to the convenience of the parties, a date and
place for hearings upon applications for confirmation of
composition or extension proposals.'
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed;
that of the District Court entered February 2, 1932 vacated; and the case is remanded to the District Court for
further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
We do not pass upon the scope, the measure or the incidence of the relief to which the petitioners are entitled;
among other reasons, because of the following facts
brought to our attention at the argument. On April 29,
1932, the Morris White Handbags Corp. was adjudged
bankrupt. On June 6, 1932, a sale for $53,850 of all its
tangible assets was confirmed by the District Court.
The Morris White Handbags Corp., its trustee in bankruptcy, and the purchaser at the bankruptcy sale are not
parties to the case at bar.
Reversed.
'Section 74 (b)-(g). The procedure was designed to be more
rigorous than that previously obtaining. See Report of Attorney
General, supra, note 5, p. 87; also, Hearings before the Subcommittees
of the Committees on the Judiciary, 72 Cong., 1st Sess., on S. 3866,
p. 635 (Statement of Lloyd Garrison, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General); id., p. 113 (Annotation to subsection (b)). The requirements for the reorganization of railroads are more rigorous.
Compare the recommendations of The Special Committee on
Equity Receiverships of the Association of The Bar of The City of
New 'York, Year Book, 1927, pp. 299-331; id., 1930, pp. 407-411;
id., 1932, pp. 333-334; and the minority report, id., 1930, pp. 411422. See also Equity Rules IV-XI, Southern District of New York,

effective July 1, 1931.

