OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Statement of the Case.

289 U.S.

2, 1933, a report to this Court of its action in compliance
with this provision."
The decree will be enlarged accordingly and, except as
thus provided, the' application of complainant States is
denied. Costs, including the expenses incurred by the
Special Master and his compensation, to be fixed by the
Court, shall be taxable against defendants. 281 U.S.
p. 200.
It is so ordered.'
SOUTH CAROLINA v. BAILEY.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF NORTH CAROLINA.

No. 685.

Argued April 21, 1933.-Decided May 22, 1933.

1. The question whether a person arrested for interstate rendition
should be delivered to the demanding State or should be released
upon the ground that by clear evidence he has shown his absence
from that State ?when the crime was committed and consequently
that he isnot a fugitive from justice, is a question of federal right
which, when raised in a court of the arresting State, should be
decided under Art. IV, § 2, par. 2 of the Constitution and § 5278
Rev. Stat., 18 U.S.C. 662, as construed by this Court. P. 419.
2. A person who has been arrested in one State under Constitution,
Art. IV, § 2, par. 2, Rev. Stat., § 5278, 18 U..C. 662, as a
fugitive from justice and who seeks discharge by habeas corpus
upon the ground that he was not in the demanding State at the
time of the alleged crime, has the burden of proving the alibi
beyond a reasonable doubt; if the evidenee is conflicting, he should
not be released. P. 420.
3. The habeas corpus proceeding is in no sense a criminal trial; and
if.the evidence of alibi is suspicious, the judge may well require
the prisoner to submit to examination also and-to show what effort
has been made to secure the presence of important witnesses.
P. 418.
203 N.C. 362; 166 $.E. 165, reversed.

to review the affirmance of a judgment of
discharge, in habeas corpus.
CERTIORARI *

*

See Table of Cases Reported in this volume.

SOUTH CAROLINA v. BAILEY.
412

413

Argument for Respondent.

Mr. William C. Wolfe, with whom Messrs. John M.
Daniel, Attorney General of South Carolina, J. Ivey
Humphrey and J. Ingraham Wilson, Assistant Attorneys
General, were on the brief, for petitioner.
Section 2, par. 2, Art IV, of the Constitution governs
the States and is to be obeyed by every citizen and officer.
State v. Anderson, 1 Hill (S.C.) 228. The Act of Congress, 18 U.S.C., c. 20, § 662, defines the rights and powers
of the States in relation to extradition. Dennison v.
Christian, 101 N.W. 1045; Munsey v. Clough, 196 U.S.
364.
Evidence of an alibi will not justify discharge, where
there is some evidence contra. The question of guilt or
innocence can not be tried on habeas corpus. Hyatt v.
New York, 188 U.S. 710.
Mr. Clyde R. Hoey for respondent.
Extradition of a citizen from one State to another must
be upon the ground that he is a fugitive from justice in
the demandingkiate. U.S. Const., Art. IV, § 2, par. 2,1
When habeas corpus is sued out, the demanding State
must satisfy the tribunal that the relator is a fugitive
from its justice. Innes v. Tobin, 240 U.S. 127; Biddinger
v. Police Commissioner, 245 U. S.135; Illinois ex rel. McNichols v. Pease, 207 U.S. 100.
Hyatt v. N.Y. ex rel. Corkran, 186 U.S. 692, holds clearly
that one who was not within a State when the crime was
committed, can not be deemed a fugitive within the meaning of Rev. Stat., § 5278; also that an extradition warrant
issued by the Governor is but primafacie sufficient. Munsey V.Clough, 196 U. S.364, distinguished. See 196 N.C.
662; 146 S.E. 599, 601; In re Hubbard, 201 N.C. 472; 160
S.E. 569,
Findings of fact by the judge, if there is any competent
evidence upon which to base them, are conclusive. In re
Bauey, 203 N.C. 363; 166 S.E. 166, 167; Oteiza y Cortes
v. Jacobus,.136 U.S. 338.

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.
MR.JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

2S9 U.S.

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Sunday night, May 1st, 1932, (probably about 10:30
Eastern Time) Hunt, a police officer, was murdered on a
well-lighted street in Greenville, South Carolina. An affidavit by policeman Corea, May 5th, before a local magistrate charged Ray Bailey, respondent here, with the
crime. As provided by the federal statute, demand was
made upon the Governor of North Carolina for delivery
of the accused as a fugitive from justice. Bramlett and
Hammond were designated as agents to bring him
back.
This requisition was promptly honored; and a warrant
issued directing officers in North Carolina to arrest respondent, "Afford him such opportunity to sue out a
writ of habeas corpus as is prescribed by the laws of this
State and to thereafter deliver him into the custody of the
said C. R. Bramlett and L. W. Hammond to be taken back
to the said State, from which he fled." June 7th, acting
as commanded, the sheriff of Jackson County took him
He at once obtained a writ of habeas
into custody.
corpus from the local Superior Court. His petition therefor alleged illegality of custody "for that the defendant
is charged with an offense in the State of South Carolina,
to-wit, the murder of A. B. Hunt, on or about the 1st day
of May, 1932, when, at which time, this affiant was in the
State of North Carolina, and was not in the State of South
Carolina."
The sheriff in his return to the writ alleged that Bailey
"is being legally and lawfully held in custody after having been arrested on a warrant of extradition issued by
the Governor of North Carolina on the 9th day of May,
1932, upon requisition for same by the Governor of South
Carolina, on and for a charge of murder alleged to have
been committed in the State of South Carolina, said war-

SOUTH CAROLINA v. BAILEY.
412

Opinion of the Court.

rant of extradition having been duly executed by me on
the said Ray Bailey, alias Ray Keith, on the 7th day of
June, 1932."
The Judge of the Superior Court sitting at Sylva, N.C.,
heard the cause June 27th, 1932. A number of affidavits
were received without objection, and thirty or more witnesses were examined in open court. At the conclusion
of the testimony the Judge announced:
"Gentlemen, I think there has been an issue raised here,
I don't think I have a right to pass on, that of identity,
and at the same time I don't think it would be fair to the
defendant to send him to South Carolina to stand a trial,
as it would be very expensive to him and his folks; under
the testimony I don't think there would be a jury anywhere that would ever find him guilty beyond a reasonable
doubt. I shall, therefore, discharge him under the writ
and let him go."
This formal judgment followed:
" 1. That Ray Bailey (alias Ray Keith) is a citizen and
resident of the State of North Carolina.
"2. That he is not a fugitive from justice from the
State of South Carolina, and was not present at the time
of the commission of the alleged crime at Greenville,
South Carolina.
"1!
3. That the State of South Carolina has failed to show
prolbable cause for holding the said Ray Bailey in custody,
or that he committed the alleged crime-the murder of
A. B. Hunt, and has failed to produce sufficient evidence
to warrant the Court in refusing the Writ, and the Court
finding from all the evidence introduced in this cause that
the petitioner is entitled to the relief sought in his petition and the Writ of Habeas Corpus; . .
"It is, therefore, upon motion . . . considered, ordered,
decreed and adjudged by the Court that the petition and
Writ be allowed and that the defendant be and he is
hereby released from custody."

416

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

The Supreme Court of North Carolina reviewed the
cause upon certiorari under title -" In the matter of Ray
Bailey alias Ray Keith." It affirmed the challenged judgment and, among other things, said [203 4N.C. 362; 166
S.E. 165]"In the case at bar a controversy of fact arose between
the contending parties, that is the demanding state and
the prisoner, as to whether the prisoner was in the deinanding state at the time the alleged offense was coinmitted. The Writ of Habeas Corpus was created and
fashioned for the express purpose of determining such
controverted fact. The statute and public policy require
that such fact be dptermined in. a summary manner.
Doubtless in given cases different minds would work out
diverse conclusions, but after all it is perhaps wise that
the determination of the ultimate fact should be lodged in
the sound legal discretion of an impartial judge, commissioned by the law of the land and the inherent sense of
the responsibility of his high office 'to do what to justice
appertains.' Ile hears the witnesses and observes their
mental leanings oi bias toward the question involved.. He
senses the atmosphere of the case. Moreover it would
doubtless be a dangerous experiment to undertake by a
judicial decree of an appellate court to prescribe a legal
strait-jacket for such matters.
"Exercising the power delegated by statute and supported in principle by the decisions of this state, the hearing judge found certain facts and set them forth in his
judgment. The last inquiry in the solution of the appeal
is: What is the effect of the findings of fact set out in the
judgment? Whatever may be the variable conclusions
reached by other courts, that inquiry is settled in North
Carolina. The law is thus stated: 'The findings of fact
made by the judge of the Superior Court, found as they
are upon competent evidence, are also conclusive on us,

SOUTH CAROLINA v. BAILEY.
412

Opinion of the Court.

and we must therefore base our judgment upon his findings, which amply sustain his order.' In re Hamilton, 182
N.C. 44, 108 S.E. 385. See also Clegg v. Clegg, 186 N.C.
28, 118 S.E. 824; In re ftayes, 200 N.C. 133, 156 S.E. 791."
The matter is here on certiorari.
No question is raised concerning the form or adequacy
of the writ issued by the Governor of North Carolina.
Prima facie Bailey was in lawful custody and upon him
rested the burden of overcoming this presumption by
.proof. McNichols v. Pease, 207 U.S. 100, 109.
This he undertook to do. His own affidavit positively
asserted his presence in North Carolina when ,the alleged
crime occurred. He narrated his movements, all within
that State, from Suncqay morning, May 1st, when he was
at Asheville (north of Greenville, S.C., sixty-one miles
over, a well-paved highway) until 5:30 o'clock Monday
morning when he entered the hospital at Sylva, N.C., fifty
miles southwest of Asheville (a paved highway connects
these towns) under an assumed name. A number of affidavits and the testimony of several witnesses given in
open court tend to support his narrative.
He claimed that he left Asheville about dark Sunday
night, May 1st, in a car with a friend with whom he had
been drinking and gambling during the afternoon; both
were under the influence of alcohol;, they were going
towards Bailey's home in Yancey County; at a point on
the roadside some' twenty-five miles north of Asheville,
between ten and eleven o'clock, P.M. (Central time),
this friend, after shooting him, left him on the roadside;
shortly thereafter two strangers appeared, put him in their
car and carried him to his brother's house in Asheville;
from there an ambulance conveyed him to the hospital,
fifty miles away, where he gave an assumed name.
The doctors found two bullets had passed through his
body; also that a bullet had wounded his right hand at
the base of the thumb.
15450'--3:1-- 27

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

Although present in court at the hearing Bailey did not
take the stand, and several persons who probably could
have thrown much light upon the issue were neither
called nor accounted for. Among these were the respondent's friend who shot him, the brother to whose house at
Asheville respondent was taken, two women said to have
been there, and the doctor who there dressed his wounds.
Other important witnesses made ex parte affidavits.
Such a tale should have been subjected to rigid scrutiny.
The hearing was in no sense a criminal trial and the judge
would have been well advised if he had demanded that
the prisoner present himself for examination; also should
show what effort had been made to secure the presence
of important witnesses in order that they might be questioned. Viewed as -a whole the evidence for respondent
leaves much to be desired-certainly it is unsatisfactory.
If true, it supports the conclusions of the Judge that
Bailey had not fled from the justice of South Carolina.
On the other hand, the demanding State presented three
witnesses-police officers Corea and Singleton and a merchant-residents of Greenville, S.C., who identified Bailey
and positively asserted that in their presence he shot officer Hunt about 10:30 Sunday night, May 1st. They
had never seen Bailey until he suddenly appeared and
commenced to shoot. The officers gave a circumstantial
account of the homicide, declared they were within a few
feet of the assailant, shot at him nine times after he had
fatally wounded Hunt and thought they wounded him in
the body and right hand. They further said that during
the melee an automobile stopped nearby and its occupants
shot at them many times. The culprit finally entered
and escaped in that car. The whole affray continued for
only a very short time-a few moments.
While some circumstances tend to support these statements, they are not free from doubt. If true, Bailey was
a fugitive,

SOUTH CAROLINA v. BAILEY.
412

419

Opinion of the Court.

The record presents an irreconcilable conflict of evidence. It is not possible to say with certainty'where the
truth lies.
The rights of the parties depend upon the proper construction and application of Art. IV, § 2, par. 2, of the
Federal Constitution I and § 5278, Rev. Stat. (U.S. Code,
Tit. 18, § 662)2 derived from the Act of February 12,
1793.
The demanding State asserted a right to the custody of
the respondent under the Federal Constitution and stat-,
ute. He claimed that these impliedly forbade his surrender sincethe evidence made it clear that he was beyond
the limits of South Carolina at the time of the homicide
and, therefore, was not a fugitive from the justice of that
State.
'A Person charged in any State with Treason, Felony, or other
Crime, who shall flee from Justice, and be found in another State,
shall on demand of the executive Authority of the State from which
he fled, be delivered up. to be removed to the State having Jurisdiction of the Crime.
'Rev. Stats. § 5278. Whenever-the, executive authority of any
State or Territory demands any person as a fugitive from justice, of
the executive authority of any State or Territory to which such person has fled, and produces a copy of an indictment found or an affidavit made before a magistrate of any State or Territory, charging
the person demanded with having committed treason, felony, or other
crime, certified as authentic by the governor or chief magistrate of
the State or Territory from whence the person so charged has fled,
it shall be the duty of the executive authority of the State or Territory to which such person has fled to cause him to be arrested and
secured, and to cause notice of the arrest to be given to the executive
authority making such demand, or to the agent of such authority
appointed to receive the fugitive, and to cause the fugitive to be delivered to such agent when he shall appear. If no such agent appears within six months from the time of the arrest, the prisoner
may be discharged. All costs or expenses incurred in the apprehending, securing, and transmitting such fugitive to the State or Territory
making such demand, shall be paid by such State or Territory.

420

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

These questions of federal right were properly submitted
for consideration by the state court upon the return to the
writ of habeas corpus. And it was the duty of that court
to administer the law prescribed by the Constitution and
statute of the United States, as construed by this Court.
Second Employers' Liability Cases, 223 U.S. 1, 55;- Cincinnati, New Orleans & Texas Pacific Ry. Co. v. Rankin,
241 U.S. 319, 326.
In effect the matter for determination was whether the
accused appeared to be held contrary to the Federal Constitution and laws. The ultimate question of his guilt
or innocence of the charge of murder preferred against him
did not arise-the sole point for decision related to his
absence from the State of South Carblina at the time of
the crime. It was wholly beyond the province of the
judge to speculate, as he seems to have done, concerning
the probable outcome of any trial which might follow
rendition to the demanding State. The circumstances require this Court to search the record and determine for
ourselves whether upon the facts presented the courts
below reached the proper conclusion.
The applicable provision of the Fede~al Constitution
and of the statute intended to implement it have often
been considered here. Some of the more important cases
are collected in the margin.'
In Munsey v. Clough, 196 U.S. 364, 374, through Mr.
Justice Peckham, this Court said-" When it is conceded,
or when it is so conclusively proved, that no question can
be made that the person was not within the demandiog
State when the crime is "said to have been committed, and
'Kentucky v. Dennison, 24 How. 66; Ex parte Reggel, 114 U.S.
642; Roberts v. Reilly, 116 U.S. 80; Hyatt v. Corkran, 188 U.S. 691;
Munsey v. Clough, 196 U.S. 364; Appleyard v. Massachusetts, 203
U.S. 222; McNichols v. Pease, 207 U.S. 100; Drew v. Thaw, 235
U.S. 432; Innes v. Tobin, 240 U.S. 127; Biddinger v. Commissioner of
Police, 245 U.S. 128.

SOUTH CAROLINA v. BAILEY.
412

" Opinion of the Court.

his arrest is sought on the ground only of a constructive
presence at that time, in the demanding State, then the
court will discharge the defendant. Hyatt v. Corkran,
188 U.S. 691, affirming the judgment of the New York
Court of Appeals,, 172 N.Y. 176; 64 N.E. 825. But the
court will not discharge a defendant arrested under the
governor's warrant where there is merely contradictory
evidence on the subject of presence in or absence from
the State, as habeas corpus is not the proper proceeding to
try the question of alibi, or any question as to the guilt or
innocence of the accused." *
Speaking for the' Court in McNichols v. Pease, 207 U.S.
100, 112, Mr. Justice Harlan said-" When a person is
held in custody as a fugitive from justice under an extradition warrant, in proper form, and showing upon its face
all that is required by law to be shown as a prerequisite
to its being issued, he should not be discharged from custody unless it is made clearly and satisfactorily to appear
that he is not a fugitive from justice within the meaning
of the Constitution and laws of the United States. We
may repeat the thought expressed in Appleyard'9 case,
above cited, that a faithful, vigorous enforcement of the
constitutional and statutory provisions relating to fugitives from justice is vital to the harmony and welfare of
the States, and that 'while a State should take care, within the limits of the law, that the rights of its people are
protected aga-nst illegal action, the judiqial authoritiesof
the Union should equally take care that the provisions of
the Constitution be not so narrowly interpreted as to
enable offenders against the laws of a State to find a
permanent asylum in the territory of another State.'"
Considering the Constitution and statute and the declarations of this Court, we may not properly approve the
discharge of the respondent unless it appears from the
record that he succeeded in showing by clear and satisfac.tory evidence that he was outside the limits of South

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Syllabus.

289 U.S.

Carolina at the time of the homicide. Stated otherwise,
he should not have been released unless it appeared beyond reasonable doubt that he was without the State of
South Carolina when the alleged offense was committed
and, consequently, could not be a fugitive from her
justice.
The record discloses only a: conflict of evidence; the requirement which we have indicated has not been met;
and the challenged judgment must be reversed.
The cause will be remanded to the Supreme Court of
North Carolina for further proceedings not inconsistent
Reversed.
with this opinion.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS and MR. JUSTICE BUTLER are of
the opinion that the evidence, while possibly sufficient to
sustain, does not require a finding that there is probable
cause to believe that the accused was a fugitive from
South Carolina, and therefore this court is not warranted
in reversing the judgment of the Supreme Court of North
Carolina.

UNITED STATES

EX REL.

VOLPE v. SMITH, DIREC-

TOR OF IMMIGRATION.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 724.

Argued May 10, 1933.-Decided nay 22, 1933.

1. The crime of counterfeiting obligations of the United States
involves moral turpitude. P. 423.
2. In § 19 of the Immigration Act of February 5, 1917, the provision
that any alien who was convicted, or who admits the commission,
"prior to entry," of a crime involving moral turpitude shall be
deported, applies to an alien who committed the crime in this
country while lawfully here, and who afterwards went abroad and
returned. P. 424.
3. The second coming of an alien from a foreign country into the
United States is an entry. P. 425.

