172

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Statement of the Case.

289 U.S.

REINECKE, FORMERLY COLLECTOR OF INTER-

NAL REVENUE, v. SMITH

ET AL.,

EXECUTORS

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT
No. 601. Argued March 22, 23, 1933.-Decided April 10, 1933
Section 219 (g) of the Revenue Act of June 2, 1924, provides:
"Where the grantor of a trust has, at any time during the taxable
year, either alone or in conjunction with any person not a beneficiary of the trust, the power to. revest in himself title to any part
of the corpus of the trust, then the income of such part of the
trust for -such taxable year shall be included in computing the net
income of the grantor." Held:
1. A trustee is not a "beneficiary" of the trust within the
meaning of the statute. P. 174.
2. The provision is not arbitrarily retroactive, since it applies
not to transactions consummated before its passage but to the
income accruing after the effective date of the Act, January 1'
1924. P. 175.
3. The same considerations as, to ownership and control affect the
power to impose a tax on the transfer of the corpus and upon the
income. P. 175.
4. Where a settlor of a trust vests the power to modify or
revoke it in himself and the trustee, the trustee is under no fiduciary obligation to the cestui que trust to refrain from exercising
the power, and the situation in that regard is as though it were
vested in the grantor jointly with a stranger to the trust. P. 176.
5. To tax the income of such a trust to th6 settlor while he and
the trustee jointly retain the power to revoke or modify the trust,
is consistent with the Fifth Amendment, and helps to make the
income tax system complete and consistent and prevent evasions.
P. 177.
'
61 F. (2d) 324, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 288 U.S. 596, to review the affirmance of
a recovery from fhe Collector of money collected as taxes
from the respondents' testator.

REINECKE v. SMITH.
172

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Erwin N. Griswold, with whom Solicitor General
Thacher and Messrs. Sewall Key and Hayner N. Larson
were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Albert L. Hopkins, with whom Mr. Harry B. Sutter
was on the brief, for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
In 1922 Douglas Smith, by five instruments, created as
many trusts for the benefit, of his wife and four children.
The trustees named were the grantor, a son who was a

direct beneficiary of one of the trusts and a contingent
beneficiary of the others; and a banking company
possessed of trust powers. Neither the grantor nor the
corporate trustee was a cestui que trust under any of the
writings. In 'each agreement it was stipulated:
"Anything herein contained to the contrary notwithstanding, this Trust may be modified or revoked at any
time by an instrument in writing signed by Douglas Smith
[the grantor] and either one of the other two trustees
or their successors."
October 22, 1924, each of the agreements was modified
by striking out the quoted clause, and the grantgr resigned
as trustee. He did not report any of the income- which
accrued in the year 1924 upon the trust property. The
Revenue Act of 1924, § 219 (g) (43 Stat. 253, 277)
directs:
"Where the grantor of a trust has, at any time during
the taxable year, either alone or in conjunction with any
person not a beneficiary of the trust, the power to revest
in himself title to any part of the corpus of the trust,
then the income of such part of the trust for such taxable
year shall be included in computing the net income of
the grantor."

174

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.,

289 U.S.

The Commissioner of Internal Revenue held that this
section required a return by Smith of the trust income
for the period January 1, 1924, to October 22, 1.924, and
assessed against him additional tax, which was paid
under protest. The respondents, who are the personal
representatives of Smith, now deceased, brought this suit
to recover the sum paid. A demurrer to the declaration
was overruled and judgment given for the respondents.
The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed, holding that as to
trusts created prior to the adoption of the Act, §'219 (g)
violates the Fifth Amendment when applied to impose a
tax by reason of property and the income therefrom disposed of by the grantor before the passage of that or any
other law taxing the income of such a trust to the settlor.
The case is here on certiorari.
Petitioner maintains the section in terms applies in
the circumstances disclosed; as the tax is laid only upon
income accruing after January 1, 1924, the statute is no;
retroactive; and, as the grantor retained a measure of
control, to tax him upon the income is not arbitrary or
unreasonable though the trusts were created before any
statute'had laid a tax upon the settlor measured by the
income of such a trust.
The respondents argue in support-of the judgment that
the trustee is a beneficiary of the trust as the phrase is
used in the section, and the income in question is therefore exempt from taxation to the settlor; and that if this
view be rejected the provision offends the Fifth Amendment.
The unambiguous phraseology of the Act precludes the
suggested construction. A trustee is not subsumed under
the designation beneficiary. Both words have a common
and accepted meaning; the former signifies the person
who holds title to the res and administers it for the benefit
of others; the latter the cestui que trust who enjoys the

REINECKE v. SMITH.
172

Opinion of the Court.

advantages of such administration. The ordinary meaning of the terms used, which we are bound to adopt (Old
Colony R. Co. v. Commissioner, 284 U.S. 552, 560,) and
the view held by those charged with the enforcement of
the Act, ratified by reenactment of the section,' alike
forbid the adoption of the construction for which the
respondents contend.
Nor do we think the act has such a retroactive effect as
to render its requirements arbitrary within the principle
announced as to estate and gift taxes in Nichols v. Coolidge, 274 U.S. 531; Untermyer v. Anderson, 276 U.S. 440,
and Blodgett v. Holden, 275 U.S. 142. In those cases the
issue was the validity of a tax on a transaction consummated before the enactment of the statute authorizing
the exaction. In the present case the subject of the tax
is not the creation of the trusts or the transfer of the
corpus from the grantor to the trustees, but the income
of the trusts which accrued after January 1, 1924, the
effective date of the Revenue Act of 1924.' Although the
act was passed June 2, 1924, the imposition of the tax on
income received or accrued from the beginning of the year
has been held unobjectionable. Cooper v. United States,
280 U.S. 409, 411. Compare Fawcus Machine Co. v.
United States, 282 U.S. 375, 379.
We come then to the final position of the respondents:
That when applied in this case the statute is so arbitrary
and unreasonable as to deny the due process guaranteed
by the Fifth Amendment, since the exaction is based not
on the settlor's income or on income from his property,
but on that which accrued to other persons from property
to which- they alone had sole and exclusive title. The
'Revenue Acts of 1926, c. 27, 44 Stat. 32; 1928, c. 852, 45 Stat.
840; 1932, c. 209, 47 Stat. 221. Regulations 65, Art. 347; Regulations 69, Art. 347; Regulations 74, Art. 881.
' See § 283, 42 Stat. 303.

176

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

argument proceeds upon the theory that until alteration
or revocation of the trust the trustees held the legal title
to the property for the sole benefit of the cestuis, and received the income; that both principal and income were
beyond the control of the grantor until the alteration of
the trust on October 22, 1924.
We have not heretofore had occasion to pass upon the
question thus presented. In Corliss v. Bowers, 281 U.S.
376, the section of the Revenue Act of 1924 now 'under
consideration was held to justify assessment of income tax
to the settlor with respect to the income of a trust revocable by him alone. Reinecke, v. Northern Trust Co., 278
U.S. 339, construed § 402 (c) of the Revenue Act of 1921,
which included within the sweep of a transfer tax any
interest of which a decedent had at any time made a
transfer, or with respect to which he had created a trust
intended to take effect in possession or enjoyment at or
after his death. The tax was upheld as applied to the
corpus of trusts over which the grantor had sole power of
revocation. It was, however, condemned as to those
where revocation was dependent upon joint action of the
grantor and the beneficiary, for the reason that the interest of the beneficiary was adverse and the grantor unable
at will to alter or destroy the trust. In the latter case
the transfer was said to be effective when made, not at
death: As pointed out in Burnet v. Guggenheim, 288
U.S. 280, the same considerations as to ownership and
control affect the power to impose a tax on the transfer
of the corpus and upon the income.
In approaching the decision of the qtiestion before us it
is to be borne in mind that the trustee is not a trustee of
the power of revocation and owes no duty to the beneficiary to resist alteration or revocation of the trust. Of
course he owes a duty to the beneficiary to protect the
trust res, faithfully to administer it, and to distribute the

REINECKE v. SMITH.
172

Opinion of the Court.,

income; but the very fact that he participates in the right
of alteration or revocation negatives any fiduciary duty to
the beneficiary to refrain from exercising the power. The
facts of this case illustrate the point; for it appears the
trust in favor of the grantor's wife was substantially modified, to her financial detriment, bythe concurrent action
of the grantor and the trustees. This case must be
viewed therefore, as if the-reserved right of revocation
had been vested jointly in the grantor and a stranger to
the trust.
Decisions of this cburt declare that where taxing acts
are challenged we look nbt to the refinements of title but
to the actual command over the property taxed,-the
actual benefit for which the tax is paid. Corliss v. Bowers, supra, -at p. 378; Tyler v. United States, 281 U.S.
497, 503; Burnet v. Guggenheim, supra.. A settlor who
at every moment retains the power to repossess the corpus
and enjoy the income has such a measure of control as
justifies the imposition of the tax upon him. Corliss v.
Bowers, supra. We think, Congress may with reason declare that where one has placed his property in trust subject to a right of revocation in himself and another, not a
beneficiary, he shall be deemed to be in control of the
property. We cannot gay that this enactment is so arbitrary and capricious as to amount to a deprivation of
property without due process of law. As declared by the
Committee reporting the section in question, a revocable
trust amounts, in its practical aspects, to no more than an
assignment of income.' This court has repeatedly said
that such an assignment, where the assignor continued
to own the corpus, does Dot immunize him from taxation
upon the income. Burnet v. Leininger, 285 U.S. 136;
Lucas v. Earl, 281 U.S. 111. It cannot therefore be successfully urged that as the legal title was held by the trustees the income necessarily must for income taxation be
15450-33-12

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Syllabus.

289 U.S.

deemed to accrue from property of someone other than
Douglas Smith. The case is plainly distinguishable from
Hoeper v. Tax Commission, 284 U.S. 206, on which respondents rely, for there the attempt was to tax income
arising from property always owned by one other than the
taxpayer, who had never had title to or control over either
the property or the income from it. The measure of control of corpus and income retained by the grantor was
sufficient to justify the attribution of the income of the
trust to him. The enactment does not violate the Fifth
Amendment.
A contrary decision would make evasion of the tax a
simple matter. There being no legally significant distinction between the trustee and a stranger to the trust
as joint-holder with the grantor of a power to revoke, if
the contention of the respondents were accepted it would
be easy to select a friend or relative as co-holder of such
a power and so place large amounts of principal and income accruing therefrom beyond the reach of taxation
upon the grantor while he retained to all intents and purposes control of both. Congress had power, in order to
make the system of income taxation complete and con-.
sistent and to prevent facile evasion of the law, to make
provision by § 219 (g) for taxation of trust income to the
grantor in the circumstances here disclosed. Compare
Taft v. Bowers, 278 U.S. 470, 482, 483; Tyler v. United
States, supra, at p. 505.
Judgment reversed.
UNITED STATES v. DUBILIER CONDENSER
CORP
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEAI
THIRD CIRCUIT

Nos. 316, 317, and 318.

FOR THE

Argued January 13, 16, 1933.-Decided
April 10, 1933

1. One who is employed to invent is bound by contractual obligation
to assign the patent for the invention to his employer,

P. 187.

