WISCONSIN v. ILLINOIS.

395

Syllabus.

WISCONSIN

ET AL.

V. ILLINOIS

ET AL.*

HEARING ON THE REPORT OF THE SPECIAL MASTER.

No. 5, original.

Argued April 17, 1933.-Decided May 22, 1953.

1. The State of Illinois is the primary and responsible defendant in
this suit, with full liability for the acts of its instrumentality, the
Sanitary District of Chicago. P. 399.
2. The Rivers and Harbors Act of July 3, 1930, with respect to the
Illinois Waterway, does not purport to authorize diversion of water
from Lake Michigan in excess of the amounts Allowed by the former
decree in this case, 281 U.S. 696; nor does it conflict in any way
with the terms of the decree. P. 402.
3. The operation of the decree and the obligation of the defendants
to carry it out have not been affected by the possibility that under
a proposed treaty with Canada, and appropriations in the Rivers
and Harbors Act of July 3, 1930, works may be erected in the
Niagara and St. Croix Rivers to compensate for the diversions of
water at Chicago. P. 404.
4. The authority of the Court to enjoin the continued perpetration
of the wrong inflicted upon the complainant States by defendants'
diversion of waters from Lake Michigan necessarily embraces the
authority to require that measures be taken to end conditions
within control of the defendant State and which may stand in the
way of the execution of the decree. P. 406.
5. In providing other means of sewage disposal for the protection of
the health and lives of her citizens as the flow of lake water through
the drainage canal is reduced by force of the decree, the State is
not exercising her police power, strictly speaking, but is complying
with her duty to end the conditions which she has urged, and
still urges, as a ground for postponing the relief to which the complainant States have been found entitled. P. 405.
6. In view of defendants' representation that controlling workspart o'f the plan hereinbefore considered-will not be needed before
December 31, 1935, the date set in the decree for reduction of the
diversion from the lake to 5,000 cubic feet per second, the Court
deems it unnecessary at this time to enlarge the decree by a special
requirement as to controlling works. P. 407.
* Together with No. 8, original, Michigan v. Illinois et al., and
No. 9, original, New York v. Illinois et al.

396

OCTOBER TEAM, 1932.
Statement of the Case.

289 US.

7. It appearing that 'the Sanitary District can not construct the
necessary sewage disposal works in time, for want of financial
resources, the decree is enlarged, to prescribe in terms: "That
the State of Illinois is hereby required to take all necessary steps,
including whatever authorizations or requirements, or provisions
for the raising, appropriation and application of moneys, may be
needed in order to cause and secure the completion of adequate
sewage treatment or sewage disposal plants and sewers, together
with controlling works to prevent reversals of the Chicago River
if such works are necessary, and all other incidental facilities, for
the disposition of the sewage of the area embraced within the
Sanitary District of Chicago so as to preclude any ground of
objection on the part of the State or of any of its municipalities
to the reduction of the diversion of the waters of the Great
Lakes-St. Lawrence system or watershed to the extent, and at the
times and in the manner, provided in this decree." P. 410.
8. The State of Illinois is further required to file in the office of the
Clerk of this Court, on or before October 2, 1933, a report to this
Court of its action in compliance with this provision. P. 411.
9. The application of the complainant States for the appointment
of a commissioner or special officer to execute the decree of April
21, 1930, on behalf of and at the expense of the defendants, is
denied. p. 412.
10. Costs, including expenses and compensation of the Special Master, to be taxed against defendants. P. 412.

This is an application by the complainant States to secure execution of the decree of April 21, 1930 (281 U.S.
696), by compelling the construction of the works necessary for treatment and disposal of sewage in order that
the amounts of Water taken from Lake Michigan through
the Chicago Drainage Canal may be reduced from time to
time, as the decree requires, without creating a dangerously insanitary condition in and about Chicago. See the
earlier opinions, 281 U.S. 179 and 278 U.S. 367.*
* 0i January 12, 1933, Missouri and the other intervening States
of the Mississippi Valley, applied for a modification of the decree of
April 21, 1930, and an enlargement of the pending reference, upon
the assumption that a change of the situation with respect to their
claims U)on the water of Lake Michigan for promoting commerce on

WISCONSIN v. ILLINOIS.
395

" Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Raymond T. Jackson, with whom Messrs. J. E.
Finnegan, Attorney General of Wisconsin, Patrick H.
O'Brien, Attorney General of Michigan, Harry H. Peterson, Attorney General of Minnesota, John W. Bricker,
Attorney General of Ohio, Gerald K. O'Brien, Deputy
Attorney General of Michigan, Joseph G. Hirschberg,
Deputy Attorney General of Wisconsin, Herman L. Ekern,
Special Assistant Attorney General of Wisconsin, and
Herbert H. Naujoks, Assistant Attorney General of Wisconsin, were on the brief, for complainants.
Mr. Cornelius Lynde, SpeCial Assistant Attorney General of Illinois, with whom Messrs. Otto Kerner, Attorney
General, and Truman A. Snell, Assistant Attorney General, were on the brief, for the State of Illinois, defendant.
Messrs. Joseph B. Fleming and William Rothmann,
with whom Messrs. James Hamilton Lewis, Joseph H.
Pleck, Frank Johnston, Jr., and Lawrence J. Fenlon
were on the brief, for the Sanitary District of Chicago,
defendant.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
In October, 1932, complainant States, Wisconsin, Minnesota, Ohio and Michigan, applied for the appointment
of a commissioner or special officer to execute the decree
of April 21, 1930. (281 U.S. 696) on behalf and at the expense of defendants. The applicants complained of the
delay in the construction of the works and facilities embraced in the program of the Sanitary District of Chicago
for the treatment and disposition of sewage so as to obviate danger to the health of the inhabitants of the District
the Illinois Waterway had been brought about by the passage of the
Rivers and Harbors Act of 1930. The application was denied
January 16, 1933, 288 U.S. 587.

398

98OCOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

on the reduction, as the decree provides, of the, diversion
of water from Lake Michigan through the Drainage
Canal. The Court directed defendants to show cause why
they have nbt taken appropriate steps to effect compliance
.with the requirements of the decree.
After hearing upon the return to the rule, the Court
appointed Edward F. McClennen as Special Master to
make summary inquiry and to report to the Court (1) as
to the causes of the delay in obtaining approval by the
Secretary of War of the construction of controlling works
in the Chicago River and the steps which should now be
taken to secure such approval and prompt construction;
(2) as to the causes of the delay in providing for the construction of the Southwest Side Treatment Works and the
steps which should now be taken for that purpose or, in
case of a change in site, for the construction of an adequate substitute; and (3) as to the financial measures on
the part of the Sanitary District or the State of Illinoia
which are reasonable and necessary in order to carry out
the decree of the Court. 287 U.S. 578. The Master has
proceeded accordingly, and, after full hearing and careful
review of the evidence received by him, has submitted his
report and recommendations, upon which the parties have
been heard.
The Master has found that the causes of the delay in
obtaining approval of the construction of controlling
works in the Chicago River "are a total and inexcusable
failure of the defendants to make an application to the
Secretary of War for such approval," and that the causes
of the delay in providing for the construction of the
Southwest Side Treatment Works" are (1) an inexcusable
and planned postponement of the beginning of construction of these Works to January 1, 1935, which left an inadequate time for their completion before December 31,
1938, at the rate of progress expected or to be expected
upder the methods pursued by the Sanitary District, and

WISCONSIN v. ILLINOIS.
395

Opinion of the Court

(2) the failure to proceed to a definite decision as to a site
and to the acquisition of the site so chosen, and (3) the
failure to proceed with reasonable diligence to prepare
designs, plans, and specifications for the Works at this
site or on the site of the West Side Works." The evidence
taken by the Master supports these findings.
With respect to the steps which should now be taken to
secure completion of the works above mentioned, the Master finds that, because of its financial situation, the defendant Sanitary District is at present powerless to contract" for the design or for the construction of controlling
works, or for the construction in a large way of the Southwest Side Treatment Works." This is found to be due
to the unmarketability of its bonds and its inability to
obtain the needed moneys through levy of taxes or assessments. The Master finds that "in the conditions which
now exist, there is no reasonable financial measure which
the Sanitary District can take, which it is failing to
take "; and that "no way has come to light, whereby this
decree can be performed under tolerable conditions, unless
the State of Illinois meets its responsibility and provides
the money." The Master recommends that the decree be
enlarged so as to require the State of Illinois to provide the
moneys necessary and to take the appropriate steps to secure the completion of adequate facilities for the treatment and disposition of sewage in order to carry out the
decree of this Court.
First. The State of Illinois raises questions as to its
relation to this suit and its obligation under the decree.
Counsel for the State present the view that the Sanitary
District is the "active defendant," and that, while no objection has been, or is made, to the joining of the State as
a party defendant, there has been no determination in this
suit as to the exact nature and extent of the "legal liability of the State of Illinois for the acts of the Sanitary
District," and that this Court "should not now assume the

400

OCTOBER TERM. 1.q32.
Opinion of the Court.

,
289 U.S.

existence of a legal liability on the part of the State!'
This argument is untenable.
In this controversy between States, the State of Illinois
by virtue of its status and authority as a State is the primary and responsible defendant. While the Sanitary District is the immediate instrumentality of the wrong found
to have been committed against the complainant States
by the diversion of water from Lake Michigan, that instrumentality was created and has continuously been
maintained by the State of Illinois. Every act of the
Sanitary District in establishing and continuing the diversion has derived its authority and sanction from the action of the State, and is directly chargeable to the State.
The adjudication as to the right of the complainant States
to have the diversior reduced as provided in the decree is
an adjudication not merely as against the Sanitary District
but as against the State as the defendant responsible under the Federal Constitution to its sister States for the acti
which its creature and agent, the Sanitary District, has
committed under the State's direction.
This conclusion would be inevitable even if the Drainage Canal had been established solely as a project for
local benefit, that is, for the sanitation of the area immediately concerned and thus to meet the needs of the
inhabitants of the great metropolis within that area. But
while the establishment and use of the Drainage Canal
were primarily, as heretofore found, for the purpose of
sanitation, the State did not authorize it with that purpose exclusively in view, but the canal project from its
first initiation has been promoted by the State of Illinois
to provide a waterway for general state purposes and the
advantage of the people of the State at large. The Act of
the state legislature of 1836 (Illinois Laws, 18.34-37, p.
118), contemplated a canal to insure navigation and to be
supplied with water from Lake Michigan and such other
sources as the canal commissioner should think proper.

WISCONSIN v. ILLINOIS.
395

Opinion of the Court.

By the Act of 1861 (Illinois Laws, 1861, p. 277), the legislature provided for improvement in the canal and a larger
flow of water from Lake Michigan. The menace from the
pollution of the Chicago River through the introduction of
sewage made it imperative to provide plans for purifica,tion, and while a waterway of such dimensions as to furnish ample dilution was regarded as the most economical
plan, the advantages to the State of such a waterway as a
highway of commerce were also in view' Wisconsin v.
Illinois, 278 U.S. 367, 401-403, 419. Wh'en the provision
was' made in 1889 (Illinois Laws, 1889, p. 125) for the
creation of sanitary districts to provide for drainage and
to improve navigable waterways, the legislature, by'joint
resolution (Illinois Laws, 1889, p. 376), set forth "the
policy of the State of Illinois to procure the construction
of a waterway of the greatest practicable depth and usefulness for navigation from Lake Michigan by the Des
Plaines and Illinois Rivers to he Mississippi River."
In this suit, the State of Illinois has defended from the
beginning upon the groutid that diversion was essential
with reference not onily to the needs of sanitation but also
for a continuous waterway from the Lake to the Gulf.
Wiscomnsit v. Illinoia, supra, pp. 388, 396. But the Court
found this contention unavailing and that the existing
diversion was unlawful. The Court found no basis for the
argument that the diversion had been authorized by the,
Congress. Id., pp. 416-420.
After a full examination of the facts, and considering
the questions presented in all their aspects, the Court
deemed it to be its duty "by an appropriate decree to
compel the reduction of the diversion to a point where it
rests on a legal basis and thus to restore the navigable
capacity of Lake Michigan to its normal level." Id., p.
420. The "restoration of the just rights of the complainants was made gradual rather than immediate in order to
avoid so far as might be possible pestilence and ruin with
15450"33-26

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

which the defendants have done much to confront themselves." Wisconsin v. Illinois 281 U.S. 179, 196. The
final decree fixed the time and amount of the reduction of
the diversion with this object in view. Id. That decree
in terms bound the State of Illinois, no less than its creature, the Sanitary District. In delivering the opinion of
the Court, Mr. Justice Holmes summed up the matter by
saying: "It already has been decided that the defendants
are doing a wrong to the complainants and that they must
stop it. They must find out a way at their peril. We
have only to consider what is possible if the State of Elinois devotes all its powers to dealing with an exigency
to the magnitude of which it seems not yet to have fully
awaked. It can base no defences upon difficulties that it
has itself created. If its constitution stands in the way of
prompt action it must amend it or yield to an authority
that is paramount to the State." Id., p. 197.
Second. The State of Illinois and the Sanitary District
contend that the provision of the.Rivers and Harbors Act
of July 3, 1930 (c. 847, 46 Stat. 918, 929) with respect to
the Illinois waterway is an exercise of the paramount
authority of the Congress and requires modification of the
decree. That provision-an enactment made after the
decree and in the light of its terms-is as follows:
"Illinois River, Illinois, in accordance with the report
of the Chief of Engiaeers, submitted in Senate Document
Numbeied 126, Seventy-first Congress, second session, and
subject' to the conditions set forth in his report in said
document, but the said project shall be so constructed as
to require the smallest flow of water with which said
project can be practically accomplished, in the development of a commercially useful waterway: Provided, That
there -is hereby authorized to be appropriated for this
project a sum not to exceed $7,500,000: Piovided fuifther,
That the water authorized at Lockport, Illinois, by the decree of the Supreme Court of the United States, rendered

WISCONSIN v. ILLINOIS.
395

Opinion of the Court.

April 21, 1930, and Peported in volume 281, United States
Reports, in Cases Numbered 7, 11, and 12 Original-October term, 1929, of Wisconsin and others against Illinois,
and others, and Michigan against Illinois and othrs, and
New' York against Illinois -and others, according to the
opinion of the court in the cases reported as Wisconsin
against Illinois, in volume 281, United States, page 179,
is hereby authorized to be used for the navigation of said
waterway: Provided further, That as soon as practicable
after the Illinois waterway shall have been completed in
accordance with this Act, the Secretary of War shall cause
a study of the amount of water that will be required as
an annual. average flow to meet the needs of a commercially useful waterway as defined in said Senate document,
and shall, on or before January 31, 1938, report to the
Congress the results of uch study with his recommendations as to the minimum amount of such flow that will be
required annually to meet the needs of such waterway and
that will not substantially injure the existing navigation
on the Great Lakes to the end that Congress may take
such action as it may deem advisable."
The text of the statute is a complete answer to defendants' contention. So far as the Congress purports to authorize a diversion of water from Lake Michigan for the'
navigation of the waterway, the authorization is explicitly
limited to the amount allowed by the Court's decree. The
Congress expressly withholds further action until there is
opportunity to consider the results of the study which the
Secretary of War is required to make. Meanwhile, and
that is sufficient for the present purpose, nothing has been
determined or enacted in any way conflicting with the
terms of the decree. It is urged that the Act of Congress
discloses an intention to control the extent of the diversion in aid of the waterway. We find in the provision no
evidence of any controlling purpose. Intention and future action remain a matter of conjecture. Whatever Its

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

intention or authority, the Congress has taken no action
which affects the operation of the decree but on the contrary has adopted the amount fixed in the decree as the
limit of permitted withdrawal.
Third. Similar considerations apply to the argument
based on the provisions of the Rivers and Harbors Act of
July 3, 1930,1 and of the pending Treaty with Canada as
to the Great Lakes-St. Lawrence Waterway, in relation to
compensation works through which, it s urged, the restoration of lake levels may be effected. The reference is
to the construction of compensation works in the Niagara
and St. Clair rivers. Counsel for Illinois say that "upon
the adoption of this Treaty the appropriation made for
the projects authorized in the Rivers and Harbors Bill of
1930, including compensation works, by the War Department Appropriation Bill of 1931, becomes immediately
available for carrying out this Treaty requirement," and
that the Court should assume that, either under the
Treaty or under the Act of 1930, compensation works with
the desired result will be installed. But it is apparent
that there is no basis for the suggested assumption. It
would be manifestly inappropriate to discuss the provisions of the pending Treaty, bearing upon the diversion of
water from Lake Michigan, as the Treaty is ..- t in effect.
And there is no ground for concluding that the compensation works to which reference is made could be installed in the absence of treaty.' What, if anything, will
be done in the, establishment of compensation works is
undetermined.
The decisive point is that nothing has been done which
affects the operation of the decree and that the obligation
of defendants to carry out its terms is in full force.
'Act of July 3, 1930 (c. 847, 46 Stat. 930); House Doe. No. 253, 70th
Cong., 1st Sess.
'See House Doe. No. 253, 70th Cong., 1st Sess., pp. 82, 84; Report.
-of Special Board of E4gineers, pars. 164, 166, 182.

WISCONSIN v. ILLINOIS.
395

Opinion of the Court.

Fourth. Resisting the Master's recommendations for
the enlargement of the decree, so as to insure compliance
with its provisions, the State of Illinois contends that the
terms of the decree have not yet been violated; that the
?decrep is confined to relief through injunction against the
continuance of the diversion beyond specified amounts at
stated times. Counsel for the State argue that! measures
for the protection of the lives and health of its citizens are
exclusively within the police power of the State, and that
no' ,obligation to exercise that power is imposed upon the
State by the Federal Constitution.
The argument ignores the fact that 'the qtiestion does
not concern the ordinary exercise of the police power of the
State, but rather concerns the duty of the State to take
measures to end the condition which it has urged, and
still urges, as a ground for the postponement of the relief
to which the complainant States have been found to be
entitled. The wrong has been inflicted 'and is a continuing one. The decision was that this wrong must be
stopped. It was "not stopped at once merely because of
the plight of the residents of Chicago and the adjacent
area, in whose interest time was sought to provide works
and facilities for sewage disposal. The Court fittingly
recognized this exigency. The Court directed a careful
inquiry in order to-ascertain the time necessary to provide
adequate protection. The duty to supply that protection
was, and is, the duty of the State. The Sanitary District,
acting under the authority of the State-as its instrumentality-presented its program for the construction of sewage works. That program was thoroughly examined and
was made the subject of report to the Court. After full
hearing the Court fixed the times and extent of "diminution of the diversion in the light of the time found to be
necessary for carrying out that program. The reduction
of the diversion was graduated accordingly. The decree
required reports as to the progress of construction. The

406

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

Court retained jurisdiction of the cause and the decree
provided that any of the parties complainants or defendants, might "apply to the Court for such action or
relief, either with respect to the time to be allowed for
the construction, or the progress of construction, or the
methods of operation, of any of said sewage treatment
plants, or with respect to the diversion of water from
Lake Michigan, as may be deemed to be appropriate."
281 U.S. p. 698. The present application of complainants
is based upon this provision of the decree and upon the
charge that defendants have unwarrantably delayed the
installation of the works which they sought an opportunity to supply before the injunction of the diversion
should become effective.
In this aspect of the case, there is no room for the, contention that the defendant State, if it were so disposed, by
failing to provide protection for its people and by trusting
to what it terms "the same compelling humanitarian
necessity which originally induced the Court to postpone
the final stoppage of diversion," could, in effect and according to its pleasure, by reason of the inability of the
Court to impose §pecific requirements as to needed measures, delay or prevent the enforcement of the decree.
The Court did not exhaust its power by the provisions
enjoining the diversion according to the times and
amounts prescribed. The Court omitted further specific
requirements not because of want of power but in. the
expectation that the diligence of defendants in carrying
out the program they had submitted to the Court would
give no occasion for such specifications. In deciding this
controversy between States, the authority of the Court
to enjoin the continued perpetration of the wrong inflicted upon complainants, necessarily embraces the authority to require measures to be taken to end conditions,
within the control of defendant State, which may stand
in the way of the execution of the decree.

WISCONSIN v. ILLINOIS.
395

407

Opinion of the Court.

Fifth. We pass from questions of power to the consideration of the requirement that is now reasonable and necessary.
The Master was directed to report, in particular, with
respect to the controlling works in the Chicago River and
the Southwest Side Treatment Works, as these works ap-,
peared to be pivotal in defendants' program. The' controlling works were proposed to avoid the danger of the
pollution of the water supply of the City of Chicago by
reversals of the Chicago River in times of storm. Because of that danger, it was not deemed to be practicable
to direct a reduction of the diversion below the initial reduction to an annual average of 6500 cubic feet per second
(required to be made by July 1, 1930) pending the completiori of the sewage treatment works and without controlling works. Two years were found to be an adequate
time for the installation of controlling works in the river
after authorization by the Secretary of War. With this
fact in .view, the decree provided that unless good cause
were'shown to the cQntrary, the diversion should be reduced- to 5000 cubic feet per second, iA addition to domestic pumpage, on and after December 31, 1935. 281
U.S. pp. 198, 696. Not only were these controlling works
embraced in defendants' construction program, but they
have been set forth as a part of that program in all of the
semi-annual reports filed by the Sanitary District under
the decree. Despite this, it appears from "the findings of
the Master that no appropriate application and submission of plans for such works have been made to the Secretary of War, and the Master finds this delay to be inexcusable. He finds that it was not due to bad faith and
that there was no intention ,to violate the decree. It is
unnecessary to review the circumstances.
Defendants now assert, upon the conclusions reached by
the Sanitary District engineers, that controlling works
will not be needed so long as the diversion does not fall

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion qf the Court.

2$9 U.S.

below 5000 cubic feet per second (the limit fixed for December 31, 1935), and that if they are needed at a later
time, appropriate proceedings for their installation will be
taken. Formal representation is made to the Court as
follows:
"The Sanitary District is prepared, upon the completion of the intercepting sewers along the main channel of
the Chicago River adjacent to Lake Michigan, to accept
the reduction t6 5000 c.f.s. without controlling works.
Upon this determination by the Sanitary District involving a conclusion on an engineering and sanitation problem which is not challenged by the complaining States,
this Court has been relieved of responsibility and the
grounds for the apprehension of the former Special Master have been removed. If the provision of the decree,
directing a reduction in diversion to 1500 c.f.s. at the end
of 1938, is not changed as a result of the study to be made
by the Chief of Engineers under the Rivers and Harbors
Act of July 3, 1930, and if it appears that controlling
works are necessary to keep Lake Michigan free of pollution upon the completion of all sewage treatment projects,
with a diversion of 1500 c.f.s., controlling works will be
designed and constructed, if the War Department approves, to meet the reduction. Compulsion will be unnecessary."
The State of Illinois "joins with and affirms" the contention submitted by the Sanitary District with respect
to these works, and in its separate brief states that "the
defendants will undoubtedly be prepared under existing
circumstances to accept the reduction called for by the
original decree to 5000 c.f.s. at the end of 1935." In view
of these representations, the Court does not deem it necessary at this time to enlarge the decree by a special requirement as to controlling works.
Upon the hearing preceding the entry of the decree, the
vast plant known as the Southwest Side Treatment Works

WISCONSIN v. ILLINOIS.
395

409

Opinion of the Court.

was considered by all parties to be the critical, or controlling, factor in the sewage treatment program, as it
was found to require the longest time to construct. The
project involved the acquisition of site, preliminary
studies, the designing of the plant, the awarding of contracts and the physical construction. The time necessary
for completion was in sharp controversy. The former Special Master reported to the Court that a reasonable time
for this purpose, assuming available funds, and thus for
carrying out the entire program for sewage treatment,
would be nine calendar years from January 1, 1930, that
is, until December 31, 1938. On this basis, considering the
time allowance to be as liberal as the evidence permitted,
the Court fixed December 31, 1938, unless good cause were
shown to the contrary, for the reduction of the diversion
to the final limit stated in the decree. 281 U.S. pp. 198,
199, 697. Now it appears that, after more than three
years, there has been no definite selection of site and that
the contemplated proceedings for the construction of these
works have not been taken.
. The Master finds that the failure to purchase or condemn a site has not delayed construction because the
Sanitary District has altered its plans. The Sanitary District has brought 'forward new methods which it asserts
to be more economical both for coinstruction and for operation. It appears that, without definite action, it has'
been virtually decided to place the works wholly on the
presently owned site on which other works, known as the
West Side Works, are located. The Master finds that it
is " only by the exercise of unusual diligence that the time
already lost to progress on the Southwest Side Treatment
Works can be counteracted and the Works completed before December 31, 1938." But he also finds that "they
can be completed by that date if the work of design and
construction begins at once and is pressed vigorously."
For our present purpose we take this last mentioned find-

410

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

ing as presenting the controlling fact, and we shall not
attempt to review the charges and excuses as to the
delay.
The finding of the Master that it is still possible to complete the sewage treatment works, within the time fixed
by the decree for the ultimate limit of the diversion, finds
support in the statements now submitted by the defendants. On the hearing before the Master the Sanitary
District took the position that "ample time remains for
this construction assuming that funds will be available"
and "that a finding that the District will not obtain the
necessary funds or will not construct these Works by December 31, 1938, is premature and unwarranted." And
in its present argument before this Court the Sanitary
District states:
"No delay has occurred which will affect the ultimate
completion of the works before the end of 1938, except the
delay caused by a lack of money. The evidence does not
disclose that there need be any apprehension on the part
of this Court as to the diligence it may expect from the
Sanitary District. On the contrary, the testimony to
which we have referred indicates that this Court may anticipate that the Sanitary District will act with all possible
speed in the performance of work necessary to effect compliance with the decree."
The question, then, comes down to the procuring of the
money necessary to effect the prompt completion of the
sewage treatment works and the complempntary facilities. To provide the needed money is the special responsibility of the State of Illinois. For the present halting
of its work the Sanitary District is not responsible. It
appears to be virtually at the end of its resources. The
Master states that, due to its :financial situation, the Sanitary District cannot go forward in any adequate manner
with either contracts or construction. We find that the
Master's conclusion, that there is no way by which the

WISCONSIN v. ILLINOIS.
395

Opinion of the Court.

decree can be performed under tolerable conditions " unless the State of Illinois meets its responsibility and
provides the money," is abundantly supported by the
record.
That responsibility the State should meet. Despite existing economic difficulties, the State has adequate resources, and we find it impossible to conclude that the
State cannot devise appropriate and adequate financial
measures to enable it to afford suitable protection to its
people to the end that its obligation to its sister States,
as adjudged by this Court, shall be properly discharged.
We do not undertake to prescribe the particular measures to be taken or to specify the works and facilities to be
provided. But in view of the delay that has occurred and
the importance of prompt action, and in order that there
may be no ground for misapprehension as to the import
of the decree or the duty of the defendant State, we think
that complainant States are entitled to have the decree enlarged by the addition of the following provision:
"That the State of Illinois is hereby required to take
all necessary steps, including whatever autiorizations or
requirements, or provisions for the raising, appropriation
and application of moneys, may be needed in orde- to
cause and secure the completion of adequate sewage treatment or sewage disposal plants and sewers, together with
controlling works to prevent reversals of the Chidago
River if such works are necessary, and all other incidental
facilities, for the disposition of the sewage of the area embraced within the Sanitary District of Chicago so as to
preclude any ground of objection on the part of the State
or of any of its municipalities to the reduction of the diversion of the waters of the Great Lakes-St. Lawrence
system or watershed to the extent, and at the times and
-in the manner, provided in this decree.
."And the State of Illinois is hereby required to file in,
the 'office of the Clerk of this Court, on or before October

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Statement of the Case.

289 U.S.

2, 1933, a report to this Court of its action in compliance
with this provision."
The decree will be enlarged accordingly and, except as
thus provided, the' application of complainant States is
denied. Costs, including the expenses incurred by the
Special Master and his compensation, to be fixed by the
Court, shall be taxable against defendants. 281 U.S.
p. 200.
It is so ordered.'
SOUTH CAROLINA v. BAILEY.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF NORTH CAROLINA.

No. 685.

Argued April 21, 1933.-Decided May 22, 1933.

1. The question whether a person arrested for interstate rendition
should be delivered to the demanding State or should be released
upon the ground that by clear evidence he has shown his absence
from that State ?when the crime was committed and consequently
that he isnot a fugitive from justice, is a question of federal right
which, when raised in a court of the arresting State, should be
decided under Art. IV, § 2, par. 2 of the Constitution and § 5278
Rev. Stat., 18 U.S.C. 662, as construed by this Court. P. 419.
2. A person who has been arrested in one State under Constitution,
Art. IV, § 2, par. 2, Rev. Stat., § 5278, 18 U..C. 662, as a
fugitive from justice and who seeks discharge by habeas corpus
upon the ground that he was not in the demanding State at the
time of the alleged crime, has the burden of proving the alibi
beyond a reasonable doubt; if the evidenee is conflicting, he should
not be released. P. 420.
3. The habeas corpus proceeding is in no sense a criminal trial; and
if.the evidence of alibi is suspicious, the judge may well require
the prisoner to submit to examination also and-to show what effort
has been made to secure the presence of important witnesses.
P. 418.
203 N.C. 362; 166 $.E. 165, reversed.

to review the affirmance of a judgment of
discharge, in habeas corpus.
CERTIORARI *

*

See Table of Cases Reported in this volume.

