620

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Syllabus.

289 Us.

as the line drawn at the point to which the river recedes at
its lowest stage without reference to extreme droughts.
The costs will be divided between the parties in accordance with the general rule in cases of this kind. Michigan
v. Wisconsin, supra, 319; North Dakota v. Minnesota,
263 U.S. 583. The parties, or either of them, if so advised,
may, within thirty days, submit the form of decree to
carry this opinion into effect, failing which the Court will
prepare and enter the decree.
It is so ordered.

The

CHIEF JUSTICE

took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.
TAIT, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL, REVENUE, v.
WESTERN MARYLAND RAILWAY CO'.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THEB.

FOURTH CIRCUIT.

No. 842. Argued May 12, 1933.-Decided May 29, 1933.
1. In computing income tax, the Commissioner of Internal Revenue
and Board of Tax Appeals denied the right of a corporation to
deduct from gross income an amortized proportion of the discount
on sales of bonds by its predecessors. On appeal to the Circuit
Court of Appeals the right was sustained. Held that the judgment
worked an estoppel against the United States and the Collector
in later litigation with the corporation, as to its right to make
like deductions for subsequent years under the same statutory
provisions and Treasury regulations. Pp. 623, 625.
2. It will not be inferred that Congress, merely by adopting the
scheme of annual tax periods, and without express declaration of
purpose, intended to abolish the doctrine of res judicata in tax
cases and thus to deprive Government and taxpayer of relief from
redundant litigation of identical questions as to the liability of the
same taxpayer under the same taxing provisions. United States v.
Stone & Downer, 274 U.S. 225, respecting res judicata in tariff
cases, distinguished. P. 624.

TAIT v. WESTERN MD. RY. CO.
620

Opinion of the Court.

3. The effect of res judicata can not be avoided by showing that an
inadvertent or erroneous concession was made at the former trial
as to the materiality, bearing or significance of the facts or questions then before the court. P. 626.
4. Where a question has been adjudged as between a taxpayer and
the Government or its official agent, the Commissioner of Internal
Revenue, the Collector, being an official inferior in authority, and
acting under them, is in such privity with them that he is estopped'
by the judgment. P. 627.
62 F. (2d) 933, affirmed.
CERTIORARI* to review the affirmance of a judgment for
the plaintiff-the respondent here--in a consolidation of
actions for the recovery of excess tax payments. See also
53 F. (2d) 211 (District Court in this case), and 33 F.
(2d) 695 (Circuit Court of Appeals in an earlier case).

Mr. Whitney North Seymour, with whom Solicitor General Biggs and Messrs. Sewall Key and J. Louis Monarch
were on the brief, for petitioner.
Messrs. Eugene S. Williams and Win. C. Purnell for
respondent.
By leave of Court, Mr. John J. Finnorn filed a brief
as anicus curie.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Between the years 1902 and 1908 The Western Maryland Rail Road Company, a Maryland corporation, sold
and issued at a discount, large amounts of its first mortgage bonds. In foreclosure proceedings under a second
mortgage its entire property was sold to a reorganization
committee representing second mortgage bondholders,
and a new company formed under the name The Western
* See

Table of Cases Reported in this volume.

622

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

Maryland Railway Company took title to all the assets
and operated the railroad. In 1911 the latter issued and
sold at a discount additional bonds secured by the first
mortgage of the original corporation.
In 1917 The Western Maryland Railway Company
was consolidated, pursuant to Maryland statutes, with
some seven subsidiaries. The new corporation so formed,
named Western Maryland Railway Company, recognized
as its own obligations the outstanding first mortgage
bonds issued by its two- predecessors. In computing this
company's income tax for the years 1918 an ' 1919 the
Commissioner of Internal Revenue refused to allow as
a deduction from gross income an amortized proportion
of the discount on the sales of bonds by the first and
second companies. The Board of Tax Appeals sustained
the ruling.' The Circuit Court of Appeals for the Fourth
Circuit reversed the decision of the Board.2
In returns for 1920, 1921 and 1922 the company
neglected to take any deduction for amortization of the
bond discount ii question. It made timely claim for
refund for all three years, and, upon denial, brought a
suit for the amount claimed against the petitioner, as
collector; and also sued the United States for refund of the
alleged overpayment for 1920. Deductions taken on the
same ground for 1923, 1924 and 1925 were disallowed by
the Commissioner, the resulting deficiencies in tax were
paid under protest, claims for refund filed and disallowed,
End suit brought against the petitioner as collector. The
istrict Court consolidated the cases and tried them without a jury on an agreed stipulation. That court found
that no facts were presented which had not been before
the Board of Tax Appeals in the litigation over the 1918
and 1919 taxes, that the parties were concluded by the
12 B.T.A. 889.

'33 F. (2d) 695.

TAIT v. WESTERN MD. RY. CO.
620

Opinion of the Court.

former decision, and rendered judgment for the respondent,' which the Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed.4
The petitioner seeks a reversal on the merits, asserting
that a judgment in a suit concerning income tax for a
given year cannot estop either of the parties in a later
action touching liability for taxes of another year. He
urges further, that, if this position is not well taken, he
is not concluded by the former judgment because neither
the proofs nor the parties are the same as in the prior
proceeding.
1. The scope of the estoppel of a judgment depends
upon whether the question arises in a subsequent action
between the same parties upon the same claim or demand
or upon a different claim or demand. In the former
case a judgment upon the merits is an absolute bar to the
subsequent action. In the latter the inquiry is whether
the point or question to be determined in the later action
is the same as that litigated and determined in the original
action. Cromwell v. County of Sac, 94 U.S. 351, 352-353;
Southern Pacific R. Co. v. United States, 168 U.S. 1, 48;
United States v. Moser, 266 U.S. 236, 241. Since the claim
in the first suit concerned taxes for 1918 and 1919 and the
demands in the present actions embraced taxes for 19201925, the case at bar falls within the second class. The
courts below held the lawfulness of the respondent's
deduction of amortized discount on the bonds of the
predecessor companies was adjudicated in the earlier suit.
The petitioner, admitting the question was in issue and
decided in respect of the bonds issued by the second company, and denying, for reasons presently to be stated, that
this is true as to the bonds of the first company, contends
that as to both' the decision of the Court of Appeals is
erroneous, for the reason that the thing adjudged in a
-53 F. (2d) 211.
'62 F. (2d) 933.

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

suit. for one year's tax cannot affect the rights of the
parties in an action for taxes of another year.
As petitioner says, the scheme of the Revenue Acts
is an imposition of tax for annual periods, and the exaction for one year is distinct from that for any other. But
it does not follow that Congress in adopting this system
meant to deprive the government and the taxpayer of
relief from redundant litigation of the identical question
of the statute's application to the taxpayer's status.
This court has repeatedly applied the doctrine of res
judicata in actions concerning state taxes, holding the
parties concluded in a suit for one year's tax as to the
right or question adjudicated by a former judgment respecting the tax of an earlier year. New Orleans v. Citizens' Bank, 167 U.S. 371; Third National Bank v. Stone,
174 U.S. 432; Baldwin v. Maryland, 179 U.S. 220; Deposit Bank v. Frdnkfort, 191 U.S. 499. Compare United
States v. Stone &. Downer Co., 274 U.S. 225, 230-231,::
The public policy upon which the rule is founded has
been said to apply with equal force to the sovereign's
demand and the claims of private citizens. Alteration of
the law in this respect is a matter for the law-making
body rather than the courts. New Orleans v. Citizens'
Bank, 398-9. It cannot be supposed that Congress was
oblivious of the scope of the doctrine, and in the absence
of a clear declaration of such purpose, we will not infer
from the annual nature of the exaction an intent to
abolish the rule in this class of cases.
We are not persuaded that the operation of the principle of the thing adjudged in tax cases will, as petitioner
insists, produce serious inequalities, or result in great
confusion; but any adverse consequence in the administration of the law furnishes no sufficient reason for the
abandonment of a rule founded in sound policy, to the
enforcement of which suitors are in justice entitled.

TAIT v. WESTERN MD. RY. CO.
Opinion of the Court.

620

We cannot agree that the decision in United States v.
Stone & Downer requires a reversal of the judgment. The
Court of Customs Appeals had from its organization consistently held the rule of res judicata inapplicable to its
decisions as to the classification of imported commodities
for the imposition of tariff duties. For some years that
court's jurisdiction of customs cases was exclusive .and
final, and its practice, in this respect, had come to be
settled. After Congress granted a right of review we
were urged to overturn the practice and to apply the doctrine of estoppel by judgment in this class of litigation.
The court refused to do so, not only because of the settled
practice, but also on account of the unique character of
the questions presented under the tariff acts. The ruling
was justified by considerations which are absent in tax
litigation; and the court mentioned and recognized the
authority of the precedents for estoppel by judgment in
the latter.
2. Is the question or right here in issue the same as
that adjudicated in the former action? The pertinent
language of the Revenue Acts is identical;' 'the regulations issued by the Treasury remained unchanged, 6 and
of course the facts with respect to the sale of the bonds
and the successive ownership of the railroad property were
the same at the time of both trials. The petitioner suggests, however, that significant facts were stipulated in
the present case which were not made to appear in the
former proceeding. He shows that in the earlier case
the Commissioner inadvertently stipulated that the fir-t
company " may be taken as identical" with the second.
'Revenue Act of 1918, ยง 234 (a) (2), 40 Stat. 1057, 1077; Revenue
Act of 1921, ยง 234 (a) (2), 42 Stat. 227, 254; Revenue Act of 1924,
ยง 234 (a) (2), 43 Stat. 253, 283; U.S.C., Tit. 26, ยง 986.
'Regulations 45 (1920 ed.), Art. 544 (a) (3); Art. 563. Regulations 62 and 65, Art. 545 (a) (3); Art. 563.
15450*-33---40

626

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of. the Court.

289 U.S.

whereas in the present suit the exact devolution of title
from the first to the second through the foreclosure and
reorganization is definitely exhibited by the stipulation
of the parties. From this he concludes that the Circuit
Court of Appeals might well have reached a different
result on the merits, if the former case had been more
fully and accurately presented. But the Circuit Court
of Appeals has found that all the facts stipulated in the
present cause were before it in the former one, and we
accept this finding. It holds also that the former decision was based on a view of the law quite as pertinent
to the bonds sold by the first company as to those
marketed by the second. The petitioner may not escape
the effect of the earlier judgment as an estoppel by showing an inadvertent or erroneous concession as to the materiality, bearing or significance of the facts, provided, as
is the case here, the facts and the questions presented on
those facts were before the cotirt when it rendered its
judgment. Compare Deposit Bank v. Frankfort,191 U.S.
499, 510-511. The very'right now contested arising out
of the same facts appearing in this record, was adjudged
in the prior proceeding
3. As we have seen, the demand, for refund of 19181919 taxes was against the Commissioner of Internal
Revenue. The present suits are against the United States
and the Collector. Are the parties the same or in such
privity that the claimed estoppel binds them? The
petitioner concedes that the former judgment is, so far as
identity of parties is concerned, conclusive in the suits
in which the United States is now the defendant, since
the Commissioner acted in the earlier suit in his official
capacity and as representative of the Government. This
leaves for consideration the question whether the Commissioner and the Collector are for purposes of application of the rule of estoppel, to be regarded as different
parties.

TEXAS & PACIFIC RY. CO. v. U.S.
620

Syllabus.

In a suit for unlawful exaction the liability of a collector is not official but personal. Sage v. United States,
250 U.S. 33; Smietanka v. Indiana Steel Co., 257 U.S. 1;
Graham & Foster v. Goodcell, 282 U.S. 409, 430. And for
this reason a, judgment in a suit to which he was a
party does not conclude the Commissioner or the United
States. Bankers PocahontasCoal Co. v. Burnet, 287 U.S.
308, 311. We think, however, that where a question has
been adjudged as between a taxpayer and the Government or its official agent, the Commissioner, the Collector, being an official inferior in authority, and acting
under them, is in such privity with them that he is
estopped by the judgment. See Second National Bank of
Saginaw v. Woodworth, 54 F. (2d) 672; Bertelsen v.
White,.58 F. (2d) 792.
4. These views render unnecessary any consideiation of
the merits of the controversy.
Judgment affirmed.
TEXAS & PACIFIC RAILWAY CO. ET AL. v. UNITED
STATES ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.

No. 1. Argued October 12, 13, 1931.-Reargued October 11, 12,
1932.-Decided May 29, 1933.
1. Carriers reaching the port of New Orleans with their own rails
and reaching Texas ports through connections with which they
maintained through routes and joint rates, made the same, or
substantially the same, rates on export, import and coastwise traffic
between New Orleans and inland points as were charged between
those points and the Texas ports, although the rail haul to and
from New Orleans was longer. Ocean freights were the same for
all of these ports; and the object of the rail carri(rs in equalizing
their rates was to protect their business, of the classes named,
from the competition of other railroads whose lines tapped the
Texas ports. The charges were neither unreasonably high nor so

