OCTOBER TERM, 1932.

28

Counsel for Parties.

289 U.S.

The Circuit Court of Appeals did not err in reversing
the judgment of the District Court. It did err in its
instructions as to the relief upon a second trial.
The judgment of reversal is accordingly affirmed, and
the cause remanded to the District Court with instructions that a judgment should be entered dismissing the
Affirmed.

complaint.

BEMIS BRO. BAG CO. v. UNITED STATES
CERTIORARI

No. 515.

TO THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF
EIGHTH CIRCUIT

APPEALS FOR THE

Argued February 13, 14, 1933.-Decided March 13, 1933

A claim for a tax refund giving notice that, in the assessment of excess profits, items have been erroneously omitted from invested
capital, and praying for a special assessment under §§ 327 (a) and
328, Revenue Act of 1918, on the ground that invested capital can
not be determined in the ordinary way, is amendable, after the
period for filing original claims has expired, by adding an alternative prayer that, if the special assessment be denied, the omitted
items may be restored to invested capital and the tax be recalculated on that basis. United States v. Henry Prentiss & Co., 288
U.S. 73; United States v. Factors & Finance Co., 288 U.S. 89.
P. 33.
60 F. (2d) 944, reversed.
CERTIORARI,

288 U.S. 594, to review a judgment of the

Circuit Court of Appeals which affirmed a judgment of
the Distriat Court rejecting a claim for refund of income
and excess profits taxes.
Mr. Abraham Lowenhaupt, with whom Messrs. Stanley

S. Waite and R.S.Doyle were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Erwin N. Griswold, with whom Solicitor General
Thacher, Assistant Attorney General Youngquist, and
Messrs. Sewall Key and J. P. Jackson were on the brief,

for the United States.

BEMIS BRO. BAG CO. v. U.S.
28

Opinion of the Court.

By leave of Court, Messrs. Kingman Brewster, James
S. Y. Ivins, Percy W. Phillips, 0. R. Folsom-Jones, and
Richard B. Barker filed a brief as amici curiae.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The controversy to be determined presents another
phase of a problem which has been much considered by
the court in opinions recently announced. United States
v. Memphis Cotton Oil Co., 288 U.S. 62; United States v.
Prentiss & Co., 288 U.S. 73; United States v. Factors&
Finance Co., 288 U.S. 89. There is need once again to
decide whether a claim for the refund of a tax has been
presented by the taxpayer in such a form as to be subject to amendment after a claim wholly new would be
barred by limitation.
The petitioner, Bemis Bro. Bag Company, having made
payment of excess profits taxes for 1918 and 1919, filed
its claims for refund with the Commissioner of Internal
Revenue. The claims contained a request for a special
assessment under §§ 327 and 328 of the Revenue Act of
1918, and in support of the request annexed a statement
under oath which had been filed with a like claim as to
the taxes of another year.
By the statement thus annexed, the right to the relief
demanded is placed upon three grounds which are not to
be confused.
The first is that the case is one "where the Commissioner is unable to determine the invested capital " in
the ordinary way. This is the ground covered by § 327 (a)
of the applicable statute.
The second is that the case is one "where a mixed
aggregate of tangible and intangible property has been
paid in for stock or for stock and bonds and the Commissioner is unable satisfactorily to determine the respective

30

OCTOBERTERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

values of the several classes of property at the time of
payment, or to distinguish the classes of property paid
in for stock and for bonds, respectively." This is the
ground covered by § 327 (c).
The third is that the case is one where "the tax, if
determined without the benefit of this section [327]
would, owing to abnormal conditions affecting the capital
or income of the corporation, work upon the corporation
an exceptional hardship evidenced by gross disproportion
between the tax computed without the benefit of this
section and the tax computed by reference to-the representative corporations specified in section 328." This is
the ground covered by § 327 (d).
The taxpayer in presenting its claims tb the Commissioner submitted facts and arguments in support of each
of the three grounds.
To show that the invested capital had been inaccurately
determined, and could not be accurately determined by
resort to the usual methods, the taxpayer stated inter alia
that the value of printing plates and patterns had been
erroneously omitted, and that owing to the loss of vouchers and the changes wrought by the lapse of time, the
value of these items could not be measured with corn.
plete precision, though it was susceptible even then of
being fixed approximately. An estimate of the value was
included in the claims.
To show that the case was one of a mixed aggregate of
tangibles and intangibles paid for in stock with the value
of the several elements not subject to accurate division,
the taxpayer made a statement of the corporate history
and structure.
To show that there were abpormal conditions that
would bring about injustice if the computation of the tax
were to be made according to the'. usual method, and this
though the invested capital were to be accurately deter.mined, the taxpayer made a statement of the inequalities

BEMIS BRO. BAG CO. v. U.S.
28

Opinion of the Court.

between its position and that of other corporations
engaged in a like business.
Grounds numbers one and two gave notice to the Commissioner that the taxpayer's invested capital had been
erroneously assessed and charged him With a duty to
inquire into the error and to give appropriate relief.
United States v. Factors & Finance Co., supra. If he
found that items had been omitted, but that he was
unable to ascertain their value with reasonable accuracy,
he might resort to § 328, and order the tax to be assessed
in accordance with a special method. If he found that
there had been omissions, but that he was able to his own
satisfaction to identify and appraise them, he would learn
in the process that there had been an undervaluation of
invested capital, and that -the assessment of the tax was
correspondingly erroneous:
Ground number three is independent of the others, and
has a different origin and meaning. "A demand for a
special assessment in accordance with § 327 (d) of the
statute of 1918 is not a challenge to any.act of the Commissioner in the valuation of invested capital. On the
contrary, the valuation of invested capital is irrelevant
if the special method is accepted. The very basis of the
application for the use of such a method is the presence
of abnormal conditions whereby an unfair and disproportionate burden will be laid upon the taxpayer if invested
capital is to be reckoned according to the statutory definition (§§ 325, 326), and the profits of the taxpayer subjected to a tax accordingly. Let the new method be
adopted and the value of the invested capital ceases to
be a factor in the process." United States v. Prentiss &
Co., supra.
The Commissioner notified the taxpayer in October
and November, 1926, that there was no evidence before
him sufficient to justify relief under § 327 (d) on the
ground of abnormal conditions in the business of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

claimant as compared with that of others. He seems to
have overlooked the fact that the taxpayer was claiming
relief also under subdivisions (a) and (c). A protest
promptly followed the delivery of the notice, and with
the protest went an amended claim. In this amended
claim there was no change of importance, unless importance be attached to the form of the relief demanded.
The request for a computation in accordance with § 328
was accompanied by a request for relief in the alternative.
In the event of a denial of 4 special assessment the taxpayer now demanded that the items "improperly eliminated from invested capital should be restored to invested
capital, and the excess profits tax recalculated on that
basis." The Commissioner ordered another hearing, and
considered the claim anew. Upon reconsideration he held
that there had been an undervaluation of invested capital
in 1918 and 1919 with the result that the taxes for the
one year had been overpaid in the sum of $14,054.18, and
for the other in the sum of $9,073.15. After thus finding
an error in the assessment, he dismissed the claims for
refund on the ground that their form as first presented
was defective and that the amendment came too late.
Cf. United States v. Memphis Cotton Oil Co., supra. In
a suit by the taxpayer to'recover the moneys overpaid,
the District Court gave judgment for the Government,
and the Court of Appeals affirmed. 60 F. (2d).944. The
case is here on certiorari.
We held in United States v. Prentiss& Co., supra, that
after the period of limitation a claim for a special assessment under § 327 (d) may not be turned by amendment
into one for the reaudit of invested capital and for the
reassessment of the tax accordingly. The two proceedings, it was pointed out, are essentially diverse. The one
is non-justiciable, invoking, as it does, an administrative
and discretionary jurisdiction,, The other is akin to a

BEMIS BRO. BAG CO. v. U.S.
Opinion of the Court.

28

judicial inquiry, reexamining an earlier determination
for error of fact or law. The one "assumes adherence to
the statute in the valuation of invested capital, and counts
upon extraordinary conditions as justifying a claim that
the statute is oppressive." The other, rejecting that
assumption, is a demand for a new audit. The distinction between a special assessment under subdivision d
and a claim for like relief under subdivisions a and c becomes apparent when the Prentiss case is compared with
another case decided the same day. In United States v.
Factors & Finance Co., supra, there had been a general
claim for refund without statement of the grounds. The
taxpayer tried to turn it by amendment into a claim for
a special assessment under § 210 of the Revenue Act of
1917. The amendment was upheld. We pointed out, in
upholding it, that " § 210 of the Act of 1917 is the precursor of § 327 (a) of the Act of 191S, and is not at all
the analogue of § 327 (d)." Under § 210 of the earlier
act, as under § 327 (a) of the later act, there is a challenge to the valuation of invested capital which opens
up the whole subject for revision and readjustment.
We think procedural analogies and administrative practice sustain the contention of the petitioner that the claim
as amended does not differ in matter of substance from
the claim as first presented.
1. If we look to the analogy of pleadings in a lawsuit,
the conclusion is not doubtful. The claim as first presented gives notice .to the Commissioner that assets of
great value have been omitted from invested capital. It
tells him what those assets are, and even estimates their
value, though imperfectly and roughly. There is no failure to make d.sclosures of the substance of the grievance,
no dearth of information as to the facts that should be the
prelude to inquiry. What is subject to criticism 'is this
and nothing more, that the claim is niggardly, and hence
15450"-33-3

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

defective, in its prayer for relief. It asks for a special
assessment under § 327 and 328. It should have asked
for this, and in the alternative that invested capital be
reexamined and increased. But for the purpose of determining the limits of permissible amendment, a change of
the legal theory of a suit, "a departure from law to law,"
is no longer accepted as a test of general validity. United
States v. Memphis Cotton Oil Co., supra, and cases there
cited. Still weaker is a test derived from the prayer for
relief, the mere demand for judgment. The rule is now
general that at a trial upon the merits the suitor shall
have the relief appropriate to the facts that he has
pleaded, whether he has prayed for it or not.* Cf. Equity
Rules 19 and 22. A claim for refund is not a pleading,
and analogies borrowed from the forms and methods of
a lawsuit will be applied to these administrative remedies
"in due subordination to differences of end and aim."
United States v. Memphis Cotton Oil Co.., supra. Even
so, they will have their place of influence, which may turn
out to be controlling, if differences of end and aim are
obscure or indecisive.
2. In this case administrative practice reinforces the
suggestions of procedural analogies, and bids us follow
where they point.
When a claim such as the one in controversy is submitted to a Commissioner, there is only one way in which
it is possible for him to deal with it. He must look into
the omitted items, and determine their effect upon the
assessment he has made. If he finds that items have been
omitted, and that by reason of their nature they make it
impossible for him to determine the value of the capital,
he will order a special assessment, for there will be nothing
else to do. If he finds that they have been omitted, but
*For
p. 184.

a summary of the decisions see Clark on Code Pleading,

BEMIS BRO. BAG CO. v. U.S.
28

Opinion of the Court.

that he is able to appraise them, he will have learned in
the course of the investigation that the assessment is
erroneous in a determinable amount. Justice will then
require that it be changed to that extent. In amending
the claim by a prayer for alternative relief, a taxpayer is
not forcing the inquiry into an unexplored territory, into
strange and foreign paths. He is asking the Commissioner to take action upon discoveries already in the making or perhaps already made. There is no transfguring
amendment, such as we found in the Prentiss case, with
its attempted change from a discretionary to a justiciable
remedy. There is-an adaptation of the relief to a case
already proved.
The brief for the Government describes the division of
functions between one section and another of the Bureau of Internal' Revenue. A claim which appears on its
face to be one for a special assessment is sent to the
Special Assessment section. A claim for the revaluation
of invested capital is sent to a section of the Field Audit
Review Division. From this it ensues, we are told, that
claims may be handled by different persons, and to some
extent in different ways, according to the end in view.
More than that must be shown to make out the contention that the substantial identity of the claim will be
changed by this amendment. Whatever the distribution
of labor may be between one division and another, it is
impossible for any of them to pass upon a claim under
§ 327 (a) without also passing upon the question whether
the valuation of the invested capital is wrong, and, if so,
whether in a determinable or an indeterminable amount.
Once let it be ascertained that the amount is determinable, and all that follows is an incident. At that point
discovery has gone on to such a stage that the Commissioner may not rid himself of the duty of pressing forward to the end. He cannot in good conscience be satisfied with less. There may be need to take the case out

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Syllabus.

289 US.

of one section and transfer it to another before revision
will be complete. All this is quite irrelevant when once a
wrong is brought to light. There can be no stopping after
that until justice has been done.
The judgment is
Reversed.
WILLIAMS, RECEIVER OF THE WASHINGTON,
BALTIMORE & ANNAPOLIS RAILROAD CO., v.
MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL OF BALTIMORE *
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT

No. 513.

Argued February 13, 1933.-Decided March 13, 1933

1. A municipal corporation, created by a State for the better ordering of Government, has no privileges or immunities under the Federal Constitution which it may invoke in opposition to a statute of
the State. P. 40.
2. A special exemption of railroad property from state, county and
city taxation, granted by the Maryland Legislature for the period
of two years, as tn aid to continuing in operation a financially crippled railroad (in the hands of a receiver) because of its peculiar
public importance as a carrier of millions of passengers and as the
only railroad serving the capital of the State,-held consistent with
the uniformity of taxation provision (Art. 15) of the Maryland
Declaration of Rights. P. 40.
3. Tax exemptions to promote the construction of railroads and tax
exemptions to help keep constructed railroads in operation when
they are failing, rest on the same public policy. P. 44.
4. The statute above-described 's not repugnant to Art. III, § 33, of
the Maryland Constitution, which provides that "the General Assembly shall pass no special law for any case for which provision
has been made by an existing general law." P. 45.
5. This provision leaves the Legislature -a wide margin of discretion
to enact special laws for special evils not met b the general laws;
and only in cases of plain abuse may courts declare the special laws
invalid. P. 46.
* Together with No. 514, Williams, Receiver, v. Mayor, Counselor

and Aldermen of Annapolis.

