MOFFAT TUNNEL LEAGUE v. U.S.
Syllabus.

109

from his equal right of participation in its possession, use
and disposition, which, while he lived, stood in the way
of the wife's exclusive enjoyment of those rights which
ordinarily flow from ownership; and this expansion of her
power of control, and consequent enlargement of its value,
furnished a sufficient occasion for the imposition of an
excise tax, which Congress might denominate a death tax,
or a transfer tax, or anything else it saw fit, although, in
the absence of an expression of the legislative will, it properly could not thu be characterized. Tyler v. United
States, supra, at pp. 502-503.
If the legislation here under review results in imposing
an unfair burden upon the taxpayer, the remedy is with
Congress and not with the courts. Unless there is a violation of the Constitution, Congress may select the. subjects of taxation and tax them differently as it sees fit;
and if it does so in plain words, as it has done here, the
courts are not at liberty to modify the act by construction
in order to avoid special hardship. Crooks v. Harrelson,
Judgment affirmed.
282 U.S. 55, 61.

MOFFAT TUNNEL LEAGUE ET
STATES ET AL.

AL.

v. UNITED

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF DELAWARE

No. 499.

Argued February 15, 1933.-Decided April 10, 1933

1. Voluntary associations which are not corporations, or quasicorporations, nor organized pursuant to or recognized by any
law, are not legal persons, and without the authority of statute
have no capacity to sue. P. 118.
2. In a suit against the United States to set aside an order of the
Interstate Commerce Commission authorizing one railroad company to acquire control of another by purchase of its stock, the
complaint must show that the plaintiff has, or represents others
having, a legal right or interest that will be injuriously affected by
the order. P. 119.
15450*-33-8

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Counsel for Appellees.

289 U.S.

3. Apprehension felt by dwellers beyond the terminus of a railroad
that acquisition of control of the railroad by a rival will lessen the
possibility of its extension, is not ground for suit to set aside an
order of the Commission permitting such acquisition. P 119.
4. The right to appear and be heard, or to intervene, in a suit
brought by another to annul an order of the Commission, is to be
distinguished from the right to bring such suit. Jud. Code, §§ 212,
213; 28 U.S.C. § 45 (a). P. 120.
59 F. (2d) 760, affirmed,
APPEAL from a decree of the District Court, of three
judges, dismissing the bill in a suit too set aside an order of
the Interstate Commerce Commission.

Mr. Albert L. Vogl, witn whom Mr. Carle Whitehead
was on the brief, for appellants.
Parties having the necessary interest in the subject
matter are not debarred from instituting and maintaining
a suit to set aside an order of the Commission merely because they are unincorporated associations. Baltimore &
Ohio R. Co. v. United States, 264 U.S. 258; McLean Lumber Co. v. United States, 237 Fed. 460; Merchants Assoction v. United States, 231 Fed. 292, 294; Interstate
Commerce Comm'n v. Diffenbaugh, 222 U.S. 42; Hubbard v. United States, 278 Fed. 754.
The interest of appellants in the subject matter is sufficient to enable them to maintain this suit to set aside
the order. Claiborne-Annapolis Ferry Co. v. United
States, 285 U.S. 382; Western Pac. C. R. Co. v. Southern
Pacific Co., '284 U.S. 47; Texas & Pac. R. Co. v. Gulf,
C. & S. F. R. Co., 270 U.S. 266; Baltimore & Ohio R. Co.
v. United States, 264 U.S. 258. Distinguishing: Sprunt &
Son v. United States, 281 U.S. 249; Pittsburgh &,.West
Va. R. Co. v. United States, 281 U.S. 479.
Mr. Nelson Thomas, with whom Solicitor General
Thacher and Messrs. Daniel W. Knowlton and Elmer B.
Collins were on the brief, for the United States et al.,
sauellees.

MOFFAT TUNNEL LEAGUE v. U.S.
113

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Henry McAllister, with whom Messrs. Elmer L.
Brock and Erskine R. Myer were on the brief, for Denver & Rio Grande Western R. Co. et al., appellees.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER

delivered the opinion of the Court.

Appellants brought this suit against the United States,
the Interstate Commerce Commission and the Denver
and Rio Grande Western Railroad Company to set aside
an order of the Commission, made pursuant to 49 U.S.C.,
§ 5 (2), 1 authorizing that company by stock purchase to
acquire control of the Denver and Salt Lake Railway
Company-called the Moffat Road. The latter, the
Moffat Tunnel Improvement District, and the State of
Colorado, by its Public Utilities Commission, intervened
as parties defendant. The grounds of suit alleged in the
complaint are that the order is not supported by evidence
and that, because the examiner excluded what plaintiffs
assert to be material evidence concerning the effect of
such acquisition upon the public interest, the Commission
failed, to hold a hearing as required by the Act. They
have now abandoned the first of these contentions. Copies of the report, 170 I.C.C. 4, and the supplemental report and order, 175 I.C.C. 542, together with a narrative
Whenever the Commission is of opinion after hearing, upon application of any carrier or carriers engaged in the transportation of passengers or proterty subject to this Act, that the acquisition,, to the
extent indicated by the Commission, by one of such carriers of the
control of any other such carrier or carriers either under a lease or
by the purchase of stock or in any other manner not involving the
consolidation of such carriers into a single system for ownership and
operation, will be in the public interest, the Commission shall have authority by order to approve and authorize such acquisition, under
such rules and .regulations and for such consideration and on such
terms and conditions as shall be found by the Commission to be just
and reasonable in the premises."
Added by § 407 of the Transportation Act of February 28, 1920,
41 Stat. 480. 49 U.S.C., § 5 (2).

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 US.

of evidence before the Commission were attached to the
complaint.

All the defendants prayed that the suit be dismissed.
In substance they maintained that neither plaintiff is a
legal entity or has capacity to maintain this suit on its
own behalf or as representative of others, and that neither
was a party in interest before the Commission or has any
pecuniary, property or legal right or interest injuriously
affected or threatened by the order.
Plaintiffs applied to the court, consisting of three
judges, for a temporary injunction. The motions to dismiss were submitted at the same time. The court held
that plaintiffs failed to show that they had a right to
maintain the suit. But, conceiving that on review dismissal on that ground might be deemed not sufficient
finally to dispose of the litigation, it also passed upon the
merits. Decree was entered accordingly. 59 F. (2d)
760.
The Rio Grande was built between 1871 and 1890. Its
main line between Denver and Ogden, 782 miles; follows
a circuitous and difficult route through mountainous
country. It extends from Denver, a mile sbove sea level,
southerly 120 miles to Pueblo, where the elevation is
4,668 feet, thence westerly, northerly, southwesterly and
northwesterly to Ogden. It rises to 10,240 feet over the
Continental Divide at Tennessee Pass east of Dotsero and
descends to a level of 4,583 at Grand Junction and 4,293
at Ogden. This line constitutes an important stretch for
through transportation, via St. Louis and Chicago, between Pacific Coast points and the East. But as to traffic
to or from the west originating at, destined to or passing
through Denver, the Rio Grande is at a great disadvantage because of its circuitous route between Pueblo and
Dotsero.
The Moffat Road was constructed between 1903 and
1913 and extends westerly from Dnver 232 miles through

MOFFAT TUNNEL LEAGUE v. U.S.
113

Opinion of the Court.

Grand and Routt counties to Craig .inMoffat county,
Colorado. Its promoters at first intended to construct
the line more than 250 miles farther into and through
Duchesne and Uintah counties, Utah, to reach Provo,
Salt Lake or Ogden. But that became, impossible, and
it appears from the evidence that. the company now has
no such plans. Originally the line crossed the Continental
Divide, rising from an elevation of 5,170 feet at Denver
to 11,660 at Corona, and descending to 6.700 at Orestod,
which is 41 miles northeasterly of Dotsero on the Rio
Grande. The use of the line over the divide was so expensive and difficult that its abandonment was contemplated. Its continued operation was deemed of great importance to Den.ver and the northwestern part of Colorado. Accordingly the General Assembly of 1922 created
the Moffat Tunnel Improvement District, including all
of Denver and parts or all of the counties traversed by
the road,, and provided for the construction of a tunnel
to be used as a transportation facility for railroads, power,
water, telephone and telegraph. The cost was to be covered by an issue of bonds and, if necessary, by special
assessments on real estate in the District, according to
benefits determined .by the Moffat Tunnel Commission,
which was also created by the Act. The tunnel was constructed at a cost of $15,470,000. In January, 1926, the
District made a lease to the Moffat covering all railroad
uses, and the tunnel has since been used as a part of its
line. The commission assessed the benefits against all
real estate in the district at $45,000,000, of which 89%
is upon property in Denver. The other parts of the District are mountainous and sparsely settled.
Construction of about 41 miles of line between Orestod
on the Moffat and Dotsero on the Rio Grande, and use by
the latter of the Moffat road through the tunnel, would
reduce the distance-between Denver and points on the Rio
Grande west of Dotsero by 173 miles and avoid the heavy

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 US.

grades over the divide. The Interstate Commerce Commission's order declaring that public convenience and necessity require the cut-off, and its order authorizing the
Rio Grande to secure stock control of the Moffat, open
the way for this development.2
The complaint alleges that the Moffat Tunnel League
is an unincorporated voluntary association organized for
the purpose of assisting in the development of commercial interests and adequate transportation facilities in
Grand, Routt and Moffat counties. The evidence shows
that it consists of nine unnamed persons who were selected, three by each of the county boards of commissioners, from persons designated by commercial and other
clubs, none of which is identified. The complaint alleges
that the Uintah Basin Railroad League is an unincorporated voluntary association organized to promote the interests of Uintah and Duchesne counties. The evidence
tends to show that it was created shortly before the hearing to secure railroad facilities for these counties, and
that it is made up of clubs, towns and irrigation companies. But none of these is named or in any manner
identified. It is said that the League also includes the
boards of these two counties. But no authorization by
local law or official action on the part of either is disclosed.
These leagues are not corporations, quasi-corporations,
or organized pursuant to or recognized by any law.
Neither is a person in law and, unless authorized by statute, they have no capacity to' sue. Brown v. United
States, 276 U.S. 134, 141. United Mine Workers v. Coronado Coal Co., 259 U.S. 344, 385. St. Paul Typothetae
v. Bookbinders' Union, 94 Minn. 351, 357; 102 N.W. 725.
Pickett v. Walsh, 192 Mass. 572, 589; 78 N.E. 753. Kar'See Colorado Sess. Laws, Ex. Seas., 1922, c. 2, p. 88. Milheim v.
Moffat Tunne.1 Dist., 72 Colo. 268; 211 Pac. 649; 262 US.. 710.

Moffat Tunnel Imp. Dist. v. Denver & S. L. Ay. Co., 45 F. (2d) 715;
certiorari denied, 283 U.S. 837.

MOFFAT TUNNEL LEAGUE v. U.S.
113

119.

Opinion of the Court.

ges. Furniture Co. v. Amalgamated Woodworkers Union,
165 Ind. 421, 423; 75 N.E. 877. Anti-Vice Committee v.
Simon, 151 La 494; 91 So. 851. There is no federal stat.
ute that purports to give any unincorporated voluntary
association standing to bring suit to set aside an order of
the Commission. Every such suit must be brought
against the United States. Urgent Deficiencies Act, 38
Stat. 219. 28 U.S.C., §§ 41 (28), 46, 48. And, save as
authorized by the Congress, it may not be sued. The Act
does not specify the classes of persons, natural or artificial,
who may sue, or what shall constitute a cause of action
for the setting aside of an order. But it does require
that the petition shall set forth "the facts constituting
petitioner's cause of action,'t and by other provisions
shows that for failure so to do the suit shall be dismissed.
Id., § 45. Consequently the complaint must show that
plaintiff has, or represents others having, a legal right or
interest.that will be injuriously affected by the order. Edward Hines Trustees v. United States, 263 U.S. 143. 148.
Sprunt & Son v. United States, 281 U.S. 249, 254. Pittsburgh & W. Va. lRy. v. United States, 281 US. 479, 486.
Plaintiffs have failed to show that they are so qualified.
Their interest is not a legal one. It is no more than a
sentiment, such as may be entertained by members of the
public in the territory west of Craig, that the improvement of transportation facilities authorized by the Commission will lessen the possibility of construction by a
rival of the Rio Grande of an extension of the Moffat to
Utah common points. Cf. Interstate Commerce Commission v. Oregon-WashingtonCo., 288 U.S. 14.
Plaintiffs contend that they -are empowered to sue by
the first proviso of § 45a.3 And they seek support from
"' The Attorney General shall have charge and control of the
interests of the Government in the cases specified in section 44 of
this title and in the cases and proceedings under sections 20, 43 and49 of Title 49, . . : Provided, That the Interstate Commerce

120

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 US.

the second proviso of that section. But these clauses do
not purport to authorize those within their terms to bring
suit. The first provides that a party, in interest to proceedings before the Commission in which an order is made
.may appear and be heard in a suit involving the "validity of such order . . . and the interest of such party."
The second declares that "communities" and others
there mentioned, who are interested in the "controversy
or question" in any suit brought by anyone under specified sections, may intervene at any*time after institution
of the suit. The right so to appear and be heard or so to
intervene in a suit brought by another is to be distinguished from an authorization to bring suit. The case is
utterly unlike Chicago Junction Case, 264 U.S. 258, 267;
Western Pacific Cal. R. Co. v. Southern Pacific Co., 284
Commission and any party or parties in interest to the r roceedings before the commission, in which an order or requir ment is
made, may appear as parties thereto of their own motion and as
of right, and be represented by their counsel, in any suit wherein
is involved the validity of such order or requirement or any part
thereof, and the interest of such party . . . : Provided further,
That communities, associations, corporations, firms, and individuals
who are interested in the ccntroversy or question before the Interstate Commerce Commission, or in any suit which may be brought
by anyone under the provisions of the aforesaid sections relating to
action of the Interstate Commerce Commission, may intervene in
said suit or proceedings at any time after the institution thereof;
and the Attorney General shall not dispose of or discontinue said
suit or proceeding over the objection of such party or intervenor
aforesaid, but said intervenor or intervenors may prosecute, defend,
or continue said suit or proceeding unaffected by the action or nonaction of the Attorney General therein.
"Complainants before the Interstate Commerce Commission interested in a case shall have the right to appear and be made parties
to the case and be represented before the courts by counsel, under
such regulations as are now permitted in similar circumstances under
the rules and practice of equity courts of the United States." §§ 212,
213, Judicial Code. 28 U.S.C., § 45 (a).

TRANSIT COMMISSION v. U.S.
113

Syllabus.

U.S. 47, and Claiborne-AnnapolisFerry v. United States,
285 U.S. 382. In each of these a carrier brought suit to
set aside an order of the Commission. No question of its
capacity to sue was involved. The order assailed directly
affected its transportation business.
Here plaintiffs have neither capacity to sue nor legal
interest or right affected by the order.
Affirmed.
TRANSIT COMMISSION ET AL. v. UNITED STATES
ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK

No. 535.

Argued. March 13, 14, 1933.-Decided April 10, 1933

1. By paragraphs 18-20 of § 1 of the Interstate Commerce Act
(added by the Transportation Act, 1920), Congress intended to
confer on the Interstate Commerce Commission plenary power to
limit the expenditures of interstate carriers for construction or
operation to lines of railroad reasonably necessary for the service
of the public. P. 127.
2. The Act is to be construed so that this authority may be fully
effective. P. 128.
3. Extension of the traffic of' an interstate carrier beyond its own
terminus over the line and to and from the terminus of another
carrier, under a trackage agreement allowing it the use of these
facilities jointly with their owner, is an "extension" of the railroad of the lessee or licensee and an "operation of a line of railroad" by it, within the meaning of § 1 (18) of the Interstate
Commerce Act; and the making of such agreement and its terms,
including the rental, are subject to the jurisdiction of the Interstate Commerce Commission to the exclusion of state authority.
P. 128.
4. Where such joint use began before the date of the Transportation
Act under 'anagreement approved by the State, and was continued
after that date and after 'the agreement had expired, the arrangement, and, the terms of a new agreement for it, necessarily fell
within the provisions of § 1 (18). P. 129.
1 F.Supp, 595, affirmed.

