OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Syllabus.

289 US.

of one section and transfer it to another before revision
will be complete. All this is quite irrelevant when once a
wrong is brought to light. There can be no stopping after
that until justice has been done.
The judgment is
Reversed.
WILLIAMS, RECEIVER OF THE WASHINGTON,
BALTIMORE & ANNAPOLIS RAILROAD CO., v.
MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL OF BALTIMORE *
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT

No. 513.

Argued February 13, 1933.-Decided March 13, 1933

1. A municipal corporation, created by a State for the better ordering of Government, has no privileges or immunities under the Federal Constitution which it may invoke in opposition to a statute of
the State. P. 40.
2. A special exemption of railroad property from state, county and
city taxation, granted by the Maryland Legislature for the period
of two years, as tn aid to continuing in operation a financially crippled railroad (in the hands of a receiver) because of its peculiar
public importance as a carrier of millions of passengers and as the
only railroad serving the capital of the State,-held consistent with
the uniformity of taxation provision (Art. 15) of the Maryland
Declaration of Rights. P. 40.
3. Tax exemptions to promote the construction of railroads and tax
exemptions to help keep constructed railroads in operation when
they are failing, rest on the same public policy. P. 44.
4. The statute above-described 's not repugnant to Art. III, § 33, of
the Maryland Constitution, which provides that "the General Assembly shall pass no special law for any case for which provision
has been made by an existing general law." P. 45.
5. This provision leaves the Legislature -a wide margin of discretion
to enact special laws for special evils not met b the general laws;
and only in cases of plain abuse may courts declare the special laws
invalid. P. 46.
* Together with No. 514, Williams, Receiver, v. Mayor, Counselor

and Aldermen of Annapolis.

WILLIAMS v. MAYOR.
36

Opinion of the Court.

6. An Act of the Legislature exempting a railroad from taxation is
not a "local law" within the meaning of the Home Rule Article of
the Maryland Constitution, when so drawn as to apply to two
"geographical subdivisions" of the State, e.g., Baltimore and
Annapolis. P. 47.
7. Franchise payments due from a railroad to the cities of Baltimore
and Annapolis under city ordinances describing them as "taxes,"
held "charges in the nature of a tax," within the meaning of a
state statute exempting the railroad. P. 47.
8. The standing of a municipal corporation to assail a statute of its
State as repugnant to the state constitution, depends upon the state
law. P. 47.
61 F. (2d) 374, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 287 U.S. 594, to review decrees which reversed orders of the District Court disallowing claims for
overdue taxes, filed with the receiver of the Washington,
Baltimore & Annapolis Electric Railroad Company by
the corporations of Baltimore and Annapolis.
Messrs. George Weems Williams and William L. Rawls,
with whom Mr. William. L. Marbury, Jr., was on the
brief, for petitioner.
Messrs. R. E. Lee Marshall and Lawrence B. Fenneman, with whom Mr. Hector J. Ciotti was on the brief,
for the Mayor and City Council of Baltimore, respondent.
Mr. Roscoe C. Rowe for the Mayor, Counselor and
Aldermen of Annapolis, respondent.
MR. JUSTICE CARDozo delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The controversy in these cases hinges upon the validity
of a statute of Maryland, adopted by the General Assembly in June, 1931, whereby the property of a particular railroad was made exempt from taxation. Acts of
1931, c. 497.
For an understanding of the merits there is need that
the statute be quoted in full.

38

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 US.

"An Act to exempt the railroad property of the Washington, Baltimore and Annapolis Electric Railroad Company, or so much thereof as may be used for railroad
purposes by said company, its receiver, successors and
assigns, from all state taxes and charges, including contributions to the cost of construction of railroad crossings
made or to be made under the authority of the State
Roads Commission, and from all county and city taxes
and charges in the nature of a tax for the years during
which the property is so used, but not exceeding two
years beginning January 1, 1931.
"WHEREAS, The Washington, Baltimore and Annapolis
Electric Railroad Company did not in the year 1930 earn
its operating charges, and it is of the utmost importance
for the welfare of the State and particularly the communities served by said railroad, that the operation of said
railroad be continued, and
"WHEREAS, It is in the judgment of the General Assembly of Maryland a wise and sound public policy to
encourage the continued operation 6f said railroad by the
exemption herein provided:
"SECTION. 1. Be it enacted by the General Assembly of
Maryland, That the railroad property of the Washington,
Baltimore and Annapolis Electric Railroad Company, or
so much thereof as may be used for railroad purposes by
said company, its receiver, successors and assigns, be exempt from all State taxes and charges, including contributions to the. cost of construction of railroad crossings made
or to be made under the authority of the State Roads
Commission, and from all county and city taxes and
charges in the nature of a tax for the years during which
the property is so used, but not exceeding two years beginning January 1, 1931.
"SECTION 2. And be it further enacted, That this Act
shall take effect June 1, 1931."

WILLIAMS v. MAYOR.
36

Opinion of the Court.

At'the passage of this act, the Washington, Baltimore
and Annapolis Electric Railroad Company was in the
hands of a receiver, appointed in January, 1931 by the
Federal District Court. For ten years preceding the receivership the gross receipts from its business had progressively declined. In 1930 the total revenues derived
from the operation of its line were $1,347,967.03, and the
operating expenses $1,191,897.32. These expenses were
exclusive of taxes and fixed charges, such as interest on its
debts. There was a funded debt of more than nine million dollars and an unsecured debt of nearly a million. In
1930, 3,247,534 passengers had traveled on the road, which
supplied the only rail service to*Annapolis, the capital of
the state. Large public interests were involved in keeping
the service going.
The Mayor and City Council of Baltimore, and the
Mayor, Counselor and Aldermen of the City of Annapolis,
municipal corporations, challenged the validity of the exemption, and filed proofs of claim with the receiver for
taxes overdue. The claim of the City of Baltimore was
for real property taxes on the terminals and rights of way,
for personal property taxes on the cars, and for franchise
taxes or charges under a municipal ordinance. The claim
of the City of Annapolis was for taxes on real property
and for local taxes or charges owing for the franchise. The
District Court upheld the validity of the statute, and disallowed the claims. Upon appeal to the Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Fourth Circuit the orders were reversed
upon the ground that the statute was invalid under the
Fourteenth Amendment of the Federal Constitution and
under several provisions of the Constitution of the State.
61 F. (2d) 374. Writs of certiorari were granted by this
court. The writ in No. 513 brings up the claim filed with
the receiver by the City of Baltimore; the writ in No. 514
brings up the claim of the City of Annapolis.

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

1. There is error -in the holding of the Circuit, Court of
Appeals that the statute of Maryland creating this exemption is a denial to the respondents of the equal protection
of the laws in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment of
the Constitution of the United States.
A municipal corporation, created by a state for the better ordering of government, has no privileges or immunities under the federal constitution which it may invoke in
opposition to the will of its creator. Trenton v. New Jersey, 262 U.S. 182; Newark v. New Jersey, 262 U.S. 192;
Worcester v. Worcester Consolidated Street Ry. Co., 196
U.S. 539; Pawhuska v. Pawhuska Oil Co., 250 U.S. 394;
Risty v. Chicago, R. I. & P. Ry. Co., 270 U.S. 378, 390;
Railroad Commission v. Los Angeles Ry. Corp., 280 U.S.
145, 156.
2. There is error in the holding of the Circuit Court of
Appeals that the statute is invalid under the Constitution
of Maryland.
Several provisions of that constitution are invoked by
the respondents. They will be considered in succession.
(a) The statute is not repugnant to Article 15 of the
Maryland Declaration of Rights wherein it is provided
"that the levying of taxes by. the poll is grievous and oppressive and ought to be prohibited; that paupers ought
not to be assessed, for the support of the. Government;
that the General Assembly shall, by uniform rules, provide for separate assessment of land and classification and
sub-classifications of improvements on land and personal
property, as it may deem proper; and all taxes thereafter
provided to be levied by the State for the support of the
general State Government, and by the counties and by the
City of Baltimore for their respective purposes, shall be
uniform as to land within the taxing district, and uniform
within the class or sub-class of improvements on land and
personal property which the respecting taxing powers

WILLIAMS v. MAYOR.
36

Opinion of the Court.

may have directed to be subjected to the tax levy; yet
fines, duties or taxes may properly and justly be imposed,
or laid with a political view for the good government and
benefit of the community."
The courts of Maryland hold that the rule of uniformity
established by these provisions does not forbid the creation of reasonable exemptions in furtherance of the public
good. Baltimore v. B. & 0. R. Co., 6 Gill 288; State v.
B. & 0. R. Co., 48 Md. 49; State v. B. & 0. R. Co., 127
Md. 434; 96 Atl. 636; State v. N. C. R. Co., 44 Md. 131;
State v. P. W. & B. R. Co., 45 Md. 361; Daly v. Morgan,
69 Md. 460, 467; 16 Atl. 287; B. C. & A. Ry. Co. v. Ocean
City, 89 Md. 89; 42 Atl. 922; B. C. & A. Ry. Co. v.
Wicomico Co., 93 Md. 113; 48 Atl. 853; Havre de Grace
v. Bridge Co., 145 Md. 491; 125 Atl. 704; The Tax Cases,
12 G. & J. 117; cf. Gordon v. Appeal Tax Court, 3 How.
(U.S.) 133;'Picardv. East Tennessee, V. & G. R. Co., 130
U.S. 637, 641. It does not even prohibit an exemption
in favor of an individual as distinguished from one for
the benefit of the members of a class. All that it exacts in
respect of the narrower exemption is the presence of a
relation, fairly discernible, between the good of the individual and the good of the community. There must be
something more than an arbitrary preference of one among
many. Baltimore v. Starr Church, 106 Md. 281, 287, 288;
67 Atl. 261.
Furtherance of the public good is written over the face
of this statute from beginning to end as its animating
motive. "It is of the utmost importance for the welfare
of the State and particularly the communities served by
said railroad that the operation of said railroad be continued." "It is the judgment of the General Assembly"
that " to encourage the continued operation" of the road
by the grant of an exemption will be to give heed to the
promptings of "a wise and sound public policy." The

42

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

exemption is to be confined to that part of the property
of the company which is used for railroad purposes, is to
continue Only-so long as the property is so used, and is
to expire in any event at the end of the two years beginning in January, 1931. It is not the function of a court
to determine whether the public policy that finds expression in legislation of this order is well or ill conceived.
Otis v. Parker, 187 U.S. 606, 609; Missouri, Kansas &
Texas Ry. Co. v. May, 194 U.S. 267; Sproles v. Binford,
286 U.S. 374, 388, 389. The judicial function is exhausted with the discovery that the relation between
means and end is not wholly vain and fanciful, an illusory
pretense. Within the field, where men of reason may
reasonably differ, the legislature must have its way. Otis
v., Parker, supra. Nor in marking out that field will a
court be forgetful of presumptions that help to fix the
boundaries. "As underlying questions of fact may condition the constitutionality of legislation of this character,
the presumption of constitutionality must prevail in aie
absence of some factual foundation of record for overthrowing the statute." O'Gorman & Young v. Hartford
Fire Insurance Co., 282 U.S. 251, 257. There has been
no departure from that principle in the judgments of the
highest court of Maryland. "Wampler v. LeCompte, 159
Md. 222; 150 Atl. 455; 282 U.S. 172, 175.
We are told that the signs of an arbitrafry preference
are written on the statute because the exemption is confined to this particular insolvent when it might have been
extended to all other insolvents engaged in a like business.
There is nothing to show that any Maryland railroad
other than this one was in th6 hands of a receiver. The
assailants of the statute have the burden of proving everything essential to their case. Pullman Co. v. Knott, 235
U.S. 23, 25; Wampler v. LeCompte, supra. But the result will be no different if other insolvents be assumed.
The public policy that. made it wise in the judgment of

WILLIAMS v. MAYOR.
36

Opinion of the Court.

the legislature to help this particular railroad and keep
its business going may have failed altogether in respect
of any other railroad, solvent or insolvent. Here was a
line carrying millions of passengers, and supplying the
only railroad service between the capital of the state and
its most populous city. The rescue of such a road might
be dictated by the public interest when a road in some
other territory might wisely be abandoned to its fate.
We are told that the statute is not to be distinguished in
principle from the one considered by the highest court
of Maryland in the case of the Starr Church, and there
condemned as arbitrary. Baltimore v. Starr Church, 106
Md. 281; 67 Atl. 261. But we think the distinctions are
many and obvious. A religious corporation, the Starr
Church, had received a gift of wharf property which it
leased for profit. The General Assembly passed an act
exempting the wharf from taxes so long as it continued in
the ownership of the church. The exemption for other
churches was confined to a place of worship and a parsonage. The statute did not say that the new exemption
was designed to promote the comfort or well-being of the
community at large. For all that appeared no such
interests were involved. The statute said no more than
this, that the exemption would be "a great relief and
benefit to said religious body," which was singled out for
privileges denied to any other. This preference for one,
with no profession of a purpose to advance the common
weal and with nothing in the situation to indicate that
such a purpose would be served, is the evil that the court
denounced.
We are told that the many cases upholding an exemption to a railroad at the time of its formation have no
bearing upon this exemption which was granted later on.
A charter, so it is argued, is a contract, or becomes one
when accepted. There is thus a quid pro quo. A privilege conferred thereafter is nothing more than a gratuity,

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

and hence an arbitrary preference irrespective of its'
motive. But this is to misread the cases and misconceive
the rationale back of them. The charter exemption to a
railroad does not gain validity from the circumstance that
a charter is a contract. If the exemption is a valid one,
the contract may mean that there will be no power of
revocation, though exemptions not contractual are terminable at will. Gordon v. Appeal Tax Court, 3 How.
(U.S.) 133. Even this difference will be absent if there
is a reservation by the state of the power to repeal or
change. Northern Central Ry. Co. v., Maryland, 187
U.S. 258, affirming Maryland v. Northern Central Ry.
Co., 90 Md. 447; 45 Atl. 465. Revocable or irrevocable,
the contract will not give validity to what would otherwise be void. Stearns v. Minnesota, 179 U.S. 223, 254;
Duluth & I. R. R. Co. v. St. Louis County, 179 U.S. 302;
and cf. Hudson County Watet Co. v. McCarter, 209 U.S.
349, 357; Union Dry Goods Co. v. Georgia Public Servile
Corp., 248 U.S. 372, 375, 376. To see that this is so we
have only to inquire what the consequence would be if a
charter exemption were to be given to a mere private
corporation, conducted for profit solely like any other
business enterprise. Charter or no charter, the exemption would not stand. Baltimore v. Starr Church, supra.
The policy that sustains an exemption in order to keep
a crippled railroad going is precisely the same as the one
that sustains an exemption to set it going at the start.
In the one case as in the other, the state maintains the
highways upon which its people'are dependent for their
economic and social life. Cole v. La Grange, 113 U.S.
1, 7. It is idle to say that a railroad, when once it has
been organized, is under a duty to go on, and hence that
its distress is not important fbr any one except itself.
Science has wrought her wonders, but the time is not yet
here when trains will run under the impulsion of duty

WILLIAMS v. MAYOR.
36

Opinion of the Court.

without more. There is room, indeed, for question
whether even the duty is so absolute as the respondents'
argument assumes. Railroad Commission v. Eastern
Texas R. Co., 264 U.S. 79, 85. Certain it is, in any event,
that operation may end with the consent of the Public
Service Commission when the earnings are inadequate.
Code of Public General Laws of Maryland, Bagby's ed.,
1929 supplement, Art. 23, § 380; Benson v. Public Service
Comm'n, 141 Md. 398; 118 Atl. 852 Nor is there need
to show a probability of utter cessation or abandonment.
Service is likely to be inefficient and even dangerous if
operation is continued in the face of an increasing deficit.
The state has an interest in seeing to it that railroads
shall be run, but an interest also in how they shall be run.
The General Assembly, weighing these and other considerations, has found them adequate to justify a temporary exemption from the burdens of taxation. Nothing
in the Constitution of Maryland or in the decisions of her
courts enables us to say that there has been a clear abuse
of power. We may not nullify for doubt alone. There
must be something near to certainty. We do not reach it
here.
(b) The statute is not repugnant to Article II, § 33,
of the Maryland Constitution, wherein it is said that
"the General Assembly shall pass no special law for any
case for which provision has been made by an existing
general law."
The highest court of Maryland has considered this provision, and defined its meaning and effect. The Police
Pension Cases, 131 Md. 315; 101 Atl. 786; Baltimore v.
United Railways Co., 126 Md. 39; 94 Atl. 378; Baltimore
v. Starr Church, supra; Littleton v. Hagerstown, 150 Md.
163; 132 Atl. 773; O'Brian & Co. v. County Commissioners, 51 Md. 15; Hodges v. Baltimore Union Pass. Ry. Co.,
58 Md. 603. There has been need, now and again, to

46

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

develop close distinctions. Our endeavor in what follows
is to extract the essence of the decisions and to give effect
to it as law.
Time with its tides brings new conditions which must
be cared for by new laws. Sometimes the hew conditions
affect the members of a class. If so, the correcting statute
must apply to all alike. Sometimes the new conditions
affect one only or a few. If so the correcting statute may
be as narrow as the mischief. The Constitution does not
prohibit special laws inflexibly and always. It permits
them when there are special evils with which existing
general laws are incompetent to cope. The special public
purpose will then sustain the special form. Baltimore v.
United Railways Co., supra. The problem in last analysis
is one of legislative policy, with a wide margin of discretion conceded to the lawmakers. Only in cases of plain
abuse will there be revision by the courts. Baltimore v.
United Railways Co., supra, at p. 52. If the evil to be
corrected can be seen to be merely fanciful, the injustice
or the wrong illusory; the courts may intervene and strike
the special statute down. Baltimore v. Starr. Church,
supra. If special circumstances have developed, and circumstances of such a nature as to call for a new rule, the
special act will stand. The Police Pension Cases, supra.
The distinction is neatly pointed by comparing two decisions. In Baltimore v. Starr Church, supra, the court
condemned a special act as a merely arbitrary departure
from the rule of uniform taxation. Declaration of Rights,
§ 15. It held at the same time that the act was void under
another section of the Constitution (Article III, § 33)
because no evil had arisen, no circumstances had developed, to give even colorable grounds of reason for the
adoption of a special rule. The Police Pension Cases,
supra, show the picture from a different angle. There
were general laws upon the statute books providing for
the grant of pensions to members of the police force, not

WILLIAMS v. MAYOR.'
36

Opinion of the Court.

including matrons. A matron was dismissed for physical
disability after many years of service. The legislature, impressed by the hardship of her position, passed a special
act for her relief. The court took the view that here was
a special case not provided for or considered in an existing
general law, and so upheld what had been done. See also
O'Brian& Co. v. County Commissioners;Hodges v. Baltimore Union Pass. Ry. Co., applying a like rule.
(c) The statute is not repugnant to Article XI A, the
home rule article, of the Maryland Constitution.
"SEc. 4. From and after the adoption of a charter under
the provisions of this Article by the City of Baltimore or
any County of this State, no public local law shall be enacted by the General Assembly for said City or County
on any subject covered by ekpress powers granted as above
provided. Any law so drawn as to apply to two or more
of the geographical sub-divisions of this State shall not
be deemed a Local Law, within the Meaning of this Act.
The term 'geographical sub-division' herein used shall
be taken to mean the City of Baltimore or any of the
Counties of this State."
The act of exemption is so drawn as to apply to two or
more geographical subdivisions of the state, i.e., to Baltimore and Annapolis. It -is thus within the powers expressly reserved to the General Assembly.
3. There is error in the holding of the Circuit Court of
Appeals that the franchise payments due to the two cities
under municipal ordinances wherein the payments are
characterized as "taxes" are not "charges in the nature
of a tax" within the meaning of the statute.
They were plainly so intended.
4. We have assumed, without deciding, that the respondents, though without standing to invoke the
protection of the Federal Constitution, will be heard to
complain of a violation of the Constitution of the State.

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Syllabus.

289 U.S.

Their standing for that purpose, at least in the state
courts, is a question of state practice (Columbus & Greenville Ry. Co. v. Miller, 283 U.S. 96, 99; Braxton County
Court v. West Virginia, 208 U.S. 192,.197, 198; Stewart v.
Kansas City, 239 U.S. 14, 16), as to 'Which the federal
courts do not exercise an independent judgment.
The Maryland decisions proceed on the assumption that
municipal corporations assailing a statute of exemption
or other special legislation have an interest in the controversy which entitles them to be heard (Baltimore v. Starr
Church, supra; Baltimore v. Alleghany County, 99 Md.
1; 57 Ati. 632), though the reports do not show that their
interest was questioned.
In the absence of any argument to the contrary in behalf of the petitioner, we make the same assumption here.
The judgments are
Reversed.
BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE UNIVERSITY OF
ILLINOIS v. UNITED STATES
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CUSTOMS AND PATENT APPEALS

No. 538.

Argued February 17, 1933.-Decided March 20, 1933

1. The power of Congress to regulate commerce with foreign nations

is plenary and exclusive, not subject in its exercise to be limited,
qualified or impeded to any extent by state action. P. 56.
2. This power is buttressed by the express provision of the Constitution denying to the States authority to lay duties on imports or
exports without the consent of Congress. P. 57.
3. Although the taxing power is a distinct power and embraces the
power to lay duties, it is established that duties may also be
imposed in'the exercise of the power to regulate commerce. P. 58.
4. Where Congress exercises its power to regulate foreign commerce
by means of a tariff, declaring, as in the Tariff Act of 1922, that
it is so exercising it, the judicial department may not attempt, in
its own conception of policy, to distribute the duties thus fixed, by
allocating some of them to the exercise of the bower to regulate
commerce and others to an independent exercise of the taxing
power. P. 58.

