472

OCTOBER TERM, 1932..
Syllabus.

289 U.S.

that "wiping" one's hands while testifying was "almost
always an indication of lying." Why it should be so, he
was unable to say, but it was "the fact." Ie did not review the evidence to assist the juryin reaching tWe truth,
but in a sweeping denunciation repudiated as a lie all
that the accused had said in his own behalf which conflicted with the statements of the Government's witnesses..
This was error and we cannot doubt that it was highly
prejudicial.
Nor do we think that the error was cured by the statement of the trial judgethat his opinion of the evidence
was not binding on the jury and that if they did not agree
with it they should find the defendant not guilty. - His
definite and concrete assertion of fact, which he had made
with all the persuasiveness of judicial utterance, as to the
basis of his opinion, was not withdrawn. His characterization of the manner and testimony of the accused was
of a sort most likely to remain firmly lodged in the memory of the jury and to excite a prejudice which would preclude a fair and dispassionate consideration of the evidence. Starr v. United States, supra; Mullen v. United
States, supra;Wallace v. United States, 291 Fed. 972, 974;
Parker v. United States, supra; O'Shaughnessy v. United
States, supra;Leslie v. United States, 43 F. (2d) 288, 289.
Reversed.
The judgment must be
CONRAD, RUBIN & LESSER v. PENDER, TRUSTEE'
IN BANKRUPTCY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS -FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 718.

Argued May 9, 1933.-Decided May 29, 1933

1. Payments made by the debtor in contemplation of bankruptcy

"to an attorney and counselor at law, solicitor in equity, or proctor
in admiralty," " for services to be rendered," are subject to be sum-.

CONRAD v. PENDER.
472

473

Opinion of the Court.

marily reexamined by the referee as to their reasonableness, under
§ 60 (d) of the Bankruptcy Act. P. 475.
2. The 1ayments covered by § 60 (d) are to be distinguished from
the allowances contemplated by § 64b (3) which are made out of
the bankrupt estate for legal services in its administration, P. 476.
3. The jurisdiction to reexamine under § 60 (d) depends not on the
specific nature of the services to be rendered, but upon the state
of mind of the debtor-upon whether his thought of bankruptcy
was the impelling cause of the transaction. P. 477.
4. The test of jurisdiction under § 60 (d) is not, whether the services
to be rendered are "germane to the aims of the Bankruptcy
Act." P. 478.
5. The payments may well be "in contemplation of bankruptcy"
though the purpose was to bring about' an arrangement with creditors that would prevent bankruptcy. P. 478.
61 F. (2d) 771, affirmed.

CERTIORARI * to review an order of a court of bankruptcy requiring the present petitioners to turn over to
the trustee part of a sum that had been paid to them by
the debtor for future legal services shortly before the filing
of a bankruptcy petition against him.

Mr. Samuel Rubin argued the cause for petitioners, by
permission pro hac vice, and with Mr. David J. Colton
filed a brief On their behalf.
Mr. George C. Levin, with whom Mr. Sydney Krause
was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of
the -Court.
By an order made by a referee in bankruptcy under
§ 60 (d) of the Bankruptcy Act, 11 U.S.C., 96 (d), appellants were directed to turn over to the trustee in bankruptcy the sum of $2,000, which was part of an amount
paid to them by the bankrupt corporation for legal serv*

See Table of Cases Reported in this volume.

474

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

ices rendered shortly before the filing of an involuntary
petition. The order was sustained by the District Court,
In re David Bell Scarves, Inc., 52 F. (2d) 755, and by
the Circuit Court of Appeals. 61 F. (2d) 771. This
Court granted certiorari.
The only question presented is raised by the appellants'
challenge of the jurisdiction of the referee to reexamine
the payment under § 60 (d). The payment was made
on November 5, 1930, and the petition in bankruptcy
was filed twelve days later. There is no room for controversy as to the facts which are thus stated by the
Court of Appeals: The corporation was in financial difficulties and unable to meet its maturing obligations.
Prior to retaining the appellants, it had engaged another
attorney to negotiate a settlement with its creditors, and
a meeting with some of its creditors had been held. Apparently the appellants were retained to supplement the
efforts of that attorney, to whom $750 had already been
paid upon a promised fee of $2,000. The testimony of
one of the appellants, given at an examination under
§ 21a, was to the effect that he was to negotiate with
creditors for a 50 per cent. cash settlement and was to
assist the corporation in hypothecating its accounts receivable in order to obtain the necessary' money to carry
out such a settlement. His affidavit, submitted in opposition to the referee's jurisdiction, stated that the most
extreme course which was within the contemplation of
himself and David Bell, bankrupt's president, was continuance of the business under an equity receivership,
although that course was not contemplated if the business
could be continued under the supervision of a committee
of creditors or of a representative of the New York
Creditors' Adjustment Bureau, Inc. It also appeared
that within two weeks prior to November 5th, when the
appellants' retainer was paid, David Bell had withdrawn

CONRAD v. PENDER.
472

475

Opinion of the Court.

$1,500 from the corporation, and his brother, an employee,
had withdrawn $750. The cash resources of the corporation were so low that appellants' retainer could not be
paid until a sale of merchandise was made, and thepurchaser's check for $2,500 was then indorsed to appellants.
The District Court concluded that the thought of bankruptcy was the impelling motive of the debtor corporation
when its president retained appellants. And the Court
of Appeals was of the opinion that in these circumstances
the payment was made "in conterhplation" of bankruptcy within the meaning of § 60 (d).That provision has been held to be sui generis. It does
not contemplate a plenary suit, but a summary proceeding. In re Wood & Henderson, 210 US. 246, 251-253.
The class of cases to which it refers is not that of preferences or of fraudulent conveyances. Id. The provision
authorizes rexamination of payments or transfers when
made by a debtor: (1) "in contemplation of the filing of'
a petition by or against him," (2)," to an attorney and
counselor at law, solicitor in equity, or proctor in admiralty," and (3) "for services to be rendered." Such payments or transfers are only to "be held valid to the extent
of a reasonable amount to be determined by the court,
and the excess may be recovered by the trustee for the
benefit of the estate."
The language of the provision, and the indicated scope
of the legal services embraced within it, distinguish it
'Section 60 (d) provides as follows: "(d) If a debtor shall, directly
or indirectly, in contemplation of the filing of a petition b or against
him, pay money or transfer property to an attorney and counselor at
law, solicitor in equity, or proctor in admiralty for services to be rendered, the transaction shall be re-examined by the court on petition
of the trustee or any creditor and shall only be held valid to the extent
of a reasonable amount to be determined by the court, and the excess
may be recovered by the trustee for the benefit of the estate."

476}

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 US

from the provision of § 64b (3), 30Stat. 563; 11 U.S.C.
104 (b) (3),2 with respect to the priority of a reasonable
attorney's fee in the distribution of an estate in bankruptcy. See Furth v. Stahl, 205 Pa. St. 439, 442; 55 Atl.
29; Prattv. Bothe, 130 Fed. 670, 673. Section 60 (d) relates to payments and transfers made by the bankrupt prior
to bankruptcy from his own property for services to be
rendered to him; 64b (3) to an allowance to be made for
legal services out of the estate under administration.
See In re Rolnick, 294 Fed. 817, 819. The services within
the latter provision are those rendered in aid of the administration of the estate and the carrying out of the provisions of the Act. See Randolph v. Scruggs, 190 U.S.
533, 539; In re Kross, 96 Fed. 816; In re Mayer, 101 Fed.
695; In re Rosenthal & Lehman, 120 Fed. 848; In re
Christianson, 175 Fed. 867. Section 60 (d), authorizing
a reekamination of payments and transfers by the bankrupt for servicei to be rendered has a broader scope. It
contains no intimation of an intention to limit the jurisdiction to reexamine to a particular sort of legal services
for the payment of which the debtor has disposed of his
property. The point of the provision conferring jurisdiction for a summary reexamination is not the specific
nature of the legal services to be rendered but that the
'Section 64b (3) provides: "(b) The debts to 'have priority, except
as herein provided, and to be paid in full out of bankrupt estates, and
the order of payment shall be . . . (3) the cost of administration, . . . and one reasonable attorney's fee for the professional
4ervices actually rendered, irrespective of the number of attorneys
employed, to the petitioning creditors in involuntary cases, to the
'bankrupt in involuntary cases while performing the duties herein prescribed, and to the bankrupt in voluntary cases as the court may
allow; .. .
'Cf. In re Krbss, 96 Fed. 816, 818, 819; In re Habegger, 139 Fed.
623, 627; In re Christianson, 175 Fed. 867, 868; In re Secord, 296

Fed. 231, 232.

CONRAD v. PENDER.
472

477

Opinion of the Court.

payment or transfer to provide for them is made "in contemplation" of bankruptcy. The' purpose is shown by
the sweeping description of payments or transfers" to an
attorney and counselor at law, solicitor in equity, or proctor in admiralty."
We agree with the Court of Appeals that the criteria
of jurisdiction to reexamine are distinct from the criteria
of the decision on the merits. As to the jurisdiction to
regxamine, the controlling question is with respect to the
state of mind ofthe debtor and whether the thought.of
bankruptcy was the impelling cause of the transaction.
Compare United States v. Wells, 283 U.S. 102, 117, 118;
Tripp v. Mitschrich, 211 Fed. 424, 427. If the payment
or transfer was'thus motivated, it may be reexamined and
its reasonableness be determined. 'Undoubtedly, while
the question thus relates to the debtor's motive, the na-,
ture of the services which he seeks and for which he pays
rhay be taken into consideration as it may throw light
upon his motive. It is not impossible that the services
may have been so wholly separate from any exigency of
bankruptcy as to indicate that the thought of bankruptcy
was in n 9 sense controlling. But, given the fact that the
payment or transfer was in contemplation of bankruptcy,
the inducement of the transaction affords, from the standpoint of 'the statute, sufficient ground for authorizing a
summary inquiry into its reasonableness. The manifest
purpose of the provision is to safeguard the assets of those
who are acting in ontemplation of bankruptcy, so that
these assets may be brought quickly and without unnecessary expense into the hands of the trustee, and to provide
a restraint upon opportunities to make an unreasonable
disposition of property through arrangement for excessive
payments for prospective legal services. In re Wood &
Henderson, supra; Pratt v. Bothe, supra. We said in the
case of Wood & Henderson that the statute "recognizes

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

the temptation of a failing debtor to deal too liberally
with his property in enabling courisel to protect him in
view of financial reverses and probable failure. It recognizes the right of such a debtor to have the aid and advi!e of counsel, and, in contemplation of bankruptcy
proceedings which will strip him of his property, to make
provisions for reasonable compensation to his counsel.
And in view of the cir'cumstances the Act makes provision that the bankruptcy court administering the estate
may) if the trustee or any creditor question the transaction, reexamine it with a view, to a determination of its
reasonableness."
In this view, we are unable to conclude that the question whether the services for which the payment or transfer'is made are "germane to the aims of the Bankruptcy
Act," as suggested in some of' the decisions, 4 furnishes
the test of the jurisdiction to regxamine. The test 'of
jurisdiction, we repeat, is given by the express language
of the statute. In the exercise of jurisdiction, all questions bearing upon the reasonableness of the transaction,
including the purpose and nature of the services, are open
to consideration. But it is insisted, in the instant case,
that the payment to appellants could not properly
be regarded as made in contemplation of bankruptcy, and
hence within the jurisdiction to reexamine, because the
payment was for the purpose of engaging appellants to
conduct negotiations with creditors in order to arrange for
an extension of time, and, if necessary, for the operation
of the business under the creditors' supervision, and thus
to avoid a forced liquidation and ultimately to restore the
business to a sound basis. ,We find no ground for saying
that the fact that such purposes were in view establishes,
as matter of law, that the payment was not in contempla'See In re Habegger, 139 Fed. 623; In re Stolp, 199 Fed. 488;
In re Rolnick, 294 Fed. 817; In re Lang, 20 F. (2d) 239; Quinn v.
Union National Bank, 32 F. (2d) 762.

JOHNSON v. MANHATTAN RY. CO.
472

Syllabus.

tion of bankruptcy. On the contrary, negotiations to prevent bankruptcy may demonstrate that the thought of
bankruptcy was the impelling cause of the payment. "A
man is usually very much in contemplation of a result
which he employs counsel to avoid." Furth v. Stahl,
supra. See, also, In re Klein-Moffett Co., 27 F. (2d) 444;
Slattery v. Dillion, 17 F. (2d) 347; In re Lang, 20 F. (2d)
239.
We are of the opinion that the court had jurisdiction
to make the order under review.
Affirmed.

JOHNSON v. MANHATTAN RAILWAY CO.

ET AL. *

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 711. Argued April 18, 19, 1933:--Decided May 29, 1933.
1. Review under writ of certiorari limited to that sought by petition.
P. 494.
2. Parties appearing in an equity suit in the District Court in
response to orders therein inviting them to show cause why a temporary receivership should not be continued, are not precluded
from objecting to the authority of the judge under an assignment,
or to the inconsistency of his action with applicable court rules,
or to the unfitness of the receivers; and should the receivership
be continued in spite of these objections, they would be entitled
to appeal. P. 495.
3. An attack in .a suit for a receivership in the District Court upon
the appointment of receivers of the same property in an earlier
independent suit in the same court, upon the grounds that the
judge who made the appointment was incompetent to act and the
persons appointed receivers unfit, held a collateral attack. P. 495.
4. A collateral attack can be successful only where and to the extent
that it discloses a want of power, as distinguished from error in
the exertion of power that was possessed. P. 496.
Together with No. 721, Boehm v. Manhattan Railway Co, et al.

