MOORE. ICE. CREAM CO. v' ROSE.
367

373

Syllabus.

inference of an agreement that the tax. shall be repaid:
As soon as this appears, a fresh term of limitation is born
and set in motion. It is a ruling not to be extended
through an enlargement of the concept of an account
stated by latitudinarian construction.
Girard Trust Co. v. United States, 270 U.S. 163, and
United States v. Swift & Co., 282 U.S. 468, are pressed
uponIus by counsel as helpful to the taxpayer. They do
not touch the case at hand. In the case of the Girard
Trust Co., a statute called foi interest on the amount of
the refund to the date of allowance. The claimant made
the point thai allowance was not perfected unless accompanied by payment, and that interest on the refund
should be correspondingly extended. The court rejecting
that contention held that allowance was complete within
the meaning of the statute when the schedule of refunds
was approved, by the Commissioner. *In the case of
Swift & Co., a like ruling was made as to the effect of the
approval -of a credit. . In neither case vas there. any
question as to the existence of an account stated, or as to
the effect of an imprqvident allowance, unknown to the
taxpayer.
The judgment is
Afrmed.
GEORGE M6ORE ICE CREAM CO., INC. v. ROSE,
COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 675. Argued April 19, 20, 1933.-Decided May 8, 1933.
1. Section 1014 of the Revenue Act of 1924, amending R.S., § 3226,
provides that no suit to reco'ver a tax alleged to have been
erroneously or illegally assessed or collected, shall be maintained
until claim for refund or credit has been filed, and that such suit
'may be maintained whether or not the tax was paid under protest.'
It fu,-her provides "This section shall not affect any proceeding
in court instituted prior to the enactment of this Act." Held:

OCrOBER TERM, 1932.
Counsel for Parties.

289 US.

(1) That the former rule requiring a protest at the time of payment, as a condition precedent to recovery, is abolished as to any
suit brought after the date of the Act, irrespective of the date of the
underlying payment. P. 375.
(2) This view results from the phraseology and implications
of the statute, and is confirmed by its history and congressional
reports. P. 377.
2. The rule that statutes should be so construed as to avoid grave
doubts of their validity, is inapplicable where the statutory intent
is clear. P. 379.
3. Where an internal revenue collector, acting by direction of the
Commissioner, collects and turns in an income tax assessed by the
latter and is sued by the taxpayer for recovery, he is entitled by
R.S., § 989, (28 U.S.C. 842,) if judgment go against him, to a certificate of the court showing that he so acted, and is relieved of
liability to execution; the judgment is payable from the Treasury
and the suit is in effect a suit against the United States. P. 380.
4. As to such cases, therefore, it can not be said that § 1014'of the
Act of 1924, supra, by abolishing retroactively the requirement of
protest by the taxpayer as a condition to his right of action, infringes any right of the collector under the due process clause of
the Fifth Amendment. P. 383.
5. A general claim of error in assessing net income--held amendable
after the statutory period. United States v. Memphis Cotton Oil
Co., 288 U.S. 62; United States v. Factors & Finance Co., 288 U.S.
89. P. 384.
61 F. (2d) 605, reversed.

CERTIORARI * to review the affirmance of a judgment
dismissing the complaint in an action by a taxpayer
against the Collector to recover money alleged to have
been ilegally collected as income and profits taxes.
Mr. J. C. Murphy for petitioner.
Mr. Paul D. Miller, with whom Solicitor General
Thacher and Messrs. Sewall Key and J. P. Jackson were
on the brief, for respondent.
By leave of Court, Messrs. John G. Buchanan and Paul
G. Rodewald filed a brief as amici curiae.
* See

Table of Cases Reported in this volume.

MOORE ICE CREAM CO. v. ROSE.
373

3X*.

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE CARDozo

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The petitioner, a corporation, brought suit against the
respondent, a Collector of Internal Revenue, to recover
income and profits taxes alleged to have been wrongfully
collected. A demurrer by the Collector was sustained in
the District Court upon two grounds: first, that the payment of the taxes had been made without protest; and
second, that the original claim for refund filed with the
Commissioner was defective and that amendment came
too late. The Circuit Court of Appeals upheld the decision upon the second ground without passing on the first.
61 F. (2d) 605. The case is here on certiorari.
On April 1, 918, the petitioner filed its return for the
year 1917, disclaiming any tax liability.. The Commissioner of Internal Revenue, auditing the return, found a
tax liability in the sum of $6,871.18, and assessed a tax
accordingly. The respondent, after notice of the assessment, made demand upon the taxpayer, giving notice that
there would be distraint and sale unless payment was
made within ten days. On November 5, 1923, the taxpayer yielded to the d-mand, moved by the desire to avoid
the seizure of its property, but without protest to the Collector that the tax was illegal, either wholly or in part.
Four years later, on November 5, 1927, it filed a claim for
refund with the Commissioner, and on November 13, 1928,
an amended claim, amplifying and making more specific
the statements of the first one. The claims were rejected
by the Commissioner, though a revenue agent had reported that a refund was due in the sum vf $4,551.01.
The petitioneri alleges that the payment was. excessive
to that extent and sues the Collector for the moneys
overpaid.
1. At common. law, and for many years under the federal statutes, protesi at the time of payment was a condition precedent to the recovery of a tax. Elliott v.

376

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

Swartwout, 10 Pet. 137, 153; Curtis'sAdm'x v. Fiedler, 2
Bl4ck 461; Chesebrough v. United States, 192 U.S. 253;
United States v. N.Y. & Cuba Mail S.. Co., 200 U.S. 488.
The rule persisted till 1924, when it was abolished by the
Revenue Act of that year, with a proviso that pending
suits should be unaffected by the change. Revenue Act
of 1924, c. 234, 43 Stat. 253, 343, § 1014, amending R.S.
§ 3226; 1 26 U.S.C., § 156. This suit was not begun till
March, 1931, and is thus outside of the proviso. Even
so, the payment to be recovered was made in 1923, when
protest was still necessary. The petitioner contends that
the new rule applies to all suits begun after the adoption
of the amendment. The Government contends that the
old rule survives if the payment was before the amendment, though the suit was begun afterwards.
1

Section 1014. (a) Section 3226 of the Revised Statutes, as
amended,'is amended to read a4 follows:
. "Sec. 3226. No suit or proceeding shall be maintained in any court
for the recovery of. any internal-revente tax alleged to have been
erroneously or illegally assessed or collected, or of any penalty
claimed to have. been collected without authority, or of any sum
'alleged to have been excessive or in any manner wrongfully collected
until a claim for refund or credit has been duly filed with the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, according to the provisions of law in
that regard, and the regulations of the Secretary of the Treasury
established in pursuance thereof; but such suit or proceeding may be
maintained, whether, or not such tax, penalty, or sum has been paid
under prbtest or duress. No such suit or proceeding shall be begun
before the expiration of six months from the date of filing such claim
unless the Commissioner renders a decision thereon within that time,
nor after the expiration of five years from the date of the payment
of such tax, penalty, or sum, unless such suit or proceeding is begun
within two years after the disallowance of the part of such claim to
which such suit or proceeding relates. The Commissioner shall within
90 days after any such disallowance notify the taxpayer thereof by
mall."
(b) This section shall not affect any proceeding in court instituted
prior to the enactment of this Act.

MOORE ICE CREAM CO. v. ROSE.
373

Opinion of the Court.

We think the intention of the Congress was to remove
the requirement of protest in any suit thereafter brought,
irrespective of the date of the underlying payment.2
The tokens of intention are within the statute and outside of it.
Of the tokens within the statute, the saving clause, (b),
is entitled to a leading place. "This section shall not
affect any proceeding in court instituted prior to the enactment of this act." The implication is that any proceeding not covered by the exception is to be subject to
the rule. Moses v. United States, 61 F. (2d) 791, 794.
Cf. Brown v. Maryland, 12 Wheat. 419, 438. But there
are other tokens, and tokens still within the statute, that
point the same way. The phraseology of the section in
all its parts imports a regulation of procedure. No suit
"shall be maintained" until a claim for refund or credit
has been filed with the Commissioner. If such a claim
has been filed, suit may be "maintained," though there
was neither protest nor duress. Even pending actions
would commonly be covered by such words. "To maintain a suit is to uphold, continue on foot, and keep from
collapse a suit already begun." Smallwood v. Gallardo,
275 U.S. 56, 61. If suits already begun are taken out by
an exception, to "maintain " can mean no less than to
prosecute with effect, without reference to the date of
the transaction at the root. Collector v. Hubbard, 12
Wall. 1, 14. In saying this we speak of the inference to
be drawn when the balance is not shifted by countervailing weights. None can be discovered here. There could
'In the lower federal courts the decisions are conflicting. Most of
them have taken the view adopted here. Beatty v. Heiner, 10 F.
(2d) 390; Warner v. Walsh, 24 F. (2d) 449; Hyatt Roller Bearing
Co. v. United States, 43 F. (2d) 1008; Weir v. McGrath, 52 F. (2d)
201; Electric Storage Battery Co. v. McCaughn, 52 F. (2d) 205;
cf. Winant v. Gardner, 29 F. (2d) 836; Moses v. United States, 61
F. (2d) 791. Contra' Warner v. Walsh, 27 F. (2d) 952.

378

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

be no denial by anyone that transactions antedating the
statute would be subject to the rule that the suit is not
maintainable without the filing of a claim. The inference
is cogent that the same transactions are covered when it
.is said in the same sentence that the suit may be maintained without evidence or averment of protest or duress.
There is a unity of verbal structure that is a symptom of
an inner unity, a unity of plan and function. The field
of operation is not shifted between the clauses of a
sentence.
If we turn to extrinsic tokens of intention, and view
the statute in the light of its history and aims, the signposts are the same. The requirement of protest as it
stood before the statute was not limited to suits against
a collector of internal revenue or other public officer.
It extended and was often applied to suits against the
Government itself. Even in suits against the Collector,
the United States was almost always the genuine defendant, the liability of the nominal defendant being
formal rather than substantial. In this situation the
Government was unjustly enriched at the expense of
the taxpayer when it held on to moneys that had been
illegally collected, whether with protest or without. So
at least the lawmakers believed, and gave expression to
that belief, not only in the statute, but in Congressional
reports. Senate Report, No. 398, 68th Congress, First
Session, pp. 44, 45; ' House Report, No. 179, 68th Con'The Senate Report contains the following:
"Section 1114. The provisions of Section 1318 of existing la~v have
been amended to provide that after the enactment of thb bill it shall
not be a condition precedent to the maintenance of a suit to recover
taxes, sums, or penalties paid, that such amounts shall have been paid
under protest or duress. The fact protest was made has little bearing on the question whether the tax was properly or erroneously
assessed. The making of such a protest becomes a formality so far
as well 'advised taxpayers are concerned and the requirement of it
may operate to deny the just claim of a taxpayer who was not well
informed."

MOORE ICE CREAM CO. v. ROSE.
373

Opinion of the Court.

gress, First Session, pp. 33, 34. The amendment was designed to right an ancient wrong. It did not draw a
distinction between suits against the body politic and
suits against a public officer who was to be paid out of
the public puise. It put them in 'a single class, and made
them subject to a common rule. A high-minded Government renounced an advantage that was felt to- be
ignoble, and set up a new standard of equity and conscience. There was no thought to discriminate between
payments made and those to come. A fine sense of honor
had brought the statute into being. We are t~o read it
in a kindred spirit. United States v. Emery Realty Co.,
237 U.S. 28, 32.
The argument is made that power was lacking, though
intention be assumed. Defect of power is not suggested
where'the claim for restitution is against the Government
itself. The case assumes another aspect, we are told,
when the suit is against an officer who is to be personally
charged. Until 1924, a Collector was not liable to a
taxpayer for a tax illegally collected unless protest gave
him notice that he was a party to a wrong. The Government suggests that there is an infraction of the Fifth
Amendment, a denial of due process, if liability is cast
upon him after the event. There is a subsidiary point
that at least the doubt is so great as to canalize construction along the course of safety. United States v. La
Franca, 282 U.S. 568, 574; United States v. Jin Fuey
Moy, 241 U.S. 394, 401. "A statute must be construed,
if fairly possible, so as to avoid not only the conclusion
that it is unconstitutional, but also grave doubts upon
that score." United States v. Jim Fuey Moy, supra.
But avoidance of a difficulty will not be pressed to the
point of disingenuous evasion. Here the intention of
the Congress is revealed too distinctly to permit- us to
ignore it because of mere misgivings as to power. The
Oroblem must be faced and answered.

380

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 US.

As applied to this respondent in the circumstances of
his official action stated in the record, the statute is constitutional though its effect is to broaden liability both
for the past and for the future. As the law stood before
later statutes, the taxpayer's protest was notice to a
Collector that suit was about to follow, and wds warning
not to pay into the Treasury the moneys collected. Elliott v. Swartwout, supra; Smietanka v. Indiana Steel Co.,
257 U.S. 1, 4. Statutes first enacted in 1839 (Act of
March 3, 1839, c. 82, § 2, 5 Stat. 348) and progressively
broadened (R.S., § 3210; 26 U.S.C., § 140), made it the
duty of Collectors to pay the money over to the Government, whether there had been protest or ho protest. At
first this was thought to have relieved them of personal
liability (Cary v. Curtis, 3 How. 236; Smietanka v. Indiana Steel Co., supra), but later acts of Congress established a different rule, though maintaining the duty to
make remittance to the Treasury. Philadelphia v. Collector,, 5 Wall. 720, 731; Curtis's Adm'x v. Fiedler,
2 Black 461, 479; Collect6r V. Hubbard,supra; Arnson v.
Murphy, 109 U.S. 238, 241; 5 Stat. 727; 12 Stat.
434, 725, 729; 12 Stat. 741, § 12; 13 Stat. 239;' 14
Stat. 329, § 8. Along with the duty there went a pledge
of indemnity by the Government itself, a pledge not
absolute, it is true, but subject to a condition. 12 Stat.
741, § 12; United State§ v. Sherman, 98 U.S. 565; Philadelphia v. Collector, supra, p. 733; Smietankq v. Indiana
Steel Co., supra. The condition was that a certificate be
granted by the court either (a) that there was probable
cause for the act done by the Collector or other officer,
or (b) that he acted under the directions of the Secretary
of the Treasury or other proper officer of the Government.
12 Stat. 741, § 12; Act of March 3, 1863. In that event
no execution was to issue upon the judgment, but the
amount of the recovery was to be paid out of the Treasury. The pledge of indemnity was carried forward into

MOORE ICE CREAM CO. v. ROSE.
373

Opinion of the Court.

the Revised Statutes with only verbal changes (R.S. 989),
and stands upon the books today. 28 U.S.C., § 842.4
The effect of the certificate, when given, is to convert the
suit against the Collector into a suit against the Government. United States v. Sherman, supra.
This Collector did act under the directions of the Secretary of the Treasury, or other proper officer of the Government in the collection of the tax. The complaint
shows upon its face that the tax had been duly assessed
by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue. In that situation the Collector was under a ministerial duty to proceed
to collect it. R.S. § 3182; 26 U.S.C., § 102; Erskine v.
Hohnbach, 14 Wall. 613. There was nothing left to his
discretion. Other duties less definitely prescribed may
leave a margin for judgment and for individual initiative.
Cf. Agnew v.iHaymes, 141 Fed. 631. There was no such
margin here. His duty being imperative, he is protected
by the command of his superior from liability for trespass
(Erskine v. Hohnbach, supra; Haffin v. Mason, 15 Wall.
671, 675; Harding v. Woodcock, 137 U.S. 43, 46), and is
entitled as of right to a certificate converting the suit
against him into one against the Government. United
States v. Sherman, supra. His position could be no better
if there had been protest at the time of payment. He
would still have been under a duty to obey the command
of his superior and collect the tax assessed. Also he would
'§ 842. 'When a recovery is had in any suit or proceeding against a
collector or other officer of the revenue for any act done by him, or
for the recovery of any money'exacted by or paid to him and by him
paid into the Treasury, in the performance of his official duty, and

the court certifies that there was probable cause for the act done by
the collector or other officer, or that he acted under the directions
of the Secretary of the Treasury, or other proper officer of the Gov-

ernment, no execution shall issue against such collector or other officer, but the amount so recovered shall, upon final judgment, be
provided for and paid out of the proper appropriation from the
Treasury.

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinioni of the Court.

289 U.S.

still have been under a duty to make prompt remittance
to the Treasury. There had been confided to him no
power to review or to revise. Erskine v. Hohnbach,,supra;
Harding v. Woodcock, supra. The case is. not one for a
certificate of probable cause, as it might be if the officer
had trespassed under a mistaken sense of duty. In such
circumstances a certain latitude of judgment may be accorded to the certifying judge, though even then it is
enough that a seizure has been made upon grounds of
reasonable suspicion. Locke v. United States, 7 Cranch
339; Agnew v. Haymes, supra; Carroll v. United States,
267 U.S. 132, 149; Dumbra v. United States, Z68 U.S. 435,
441. One does not speak of probable cause when justification is complete. Here the certifying judge will be subject to a specific duty upon the facts admitted by the demurrer to relieve the Collector of personal liability and to
shift the burden to the, Treasury. This court has often
held that a pledge of the public faith and credit will permit the seizure of property by right of eminent domain,
though what is due for- compensation must be ascertained
thereafter. Sweet v. Rechel, 159 U.S. 380; Crozier v.
Krupp, 224 U.S. 290; Joslin Mfg. Co. v. Providence, 262
U.S. 668, 677; Dohany v. Rogers, 281 U.S. 362, 366; Hurley. v. Kincaid, 285 U.S. 95, 104, 105., The assurance of
indemnity is as ample, the reparation prompter and more
summary, upon the facts before us here.
A suit against a Collector who has collected a tax in
the fulfilment of a ministerial duty is today an anomalous
relic of bygone modes of thought. He is not suable as a
trespasser, nor is he to pay out of his own purse. He
is made a defendant because the statute has said for
many years that 'such a remedy shall exist, though he
has been guilty of no wrong, and though another is to
pay. Philadelphia v. Collector, supra, p. 731. There
may have been utility in such procedural devices in days
when the Government was not suable as freely as now.

MOORE ICE CREAM CO. v. ROSE.
373

Opinion of the Court.

United States v. Emery, supra; Ex parte Bakelite Corp.,
279 U.S. 438, 452; Act of February 24, 1855, c. 122, 10
Stat. 612, §§ 1 and 9; Judicial Code, § 145; 28 U.S.C.,
§ 250; Judicial Code, § 24 (20); 28 U.S.C., § 41 (20).
They have little utility today, at all events where the
complaint against the officer shows upon its face that in
the process of collecting he, was acting in the line of
duty, and that in the line of duty he has turned the
money over. In such circumstances his presence as a
defendant is merely a remedial expedient for bringing
the Government into court.
The case comes down to this: In its application to
this Collector the amendment of 1924 has left the law
the same as it had been for many years. There has been
no change to his detriment in the definition of rights and
wrongs. His conduct must have been the same though
the statute had been on the books from the beginning.
There has not even been any change to his detriment in
the law of remedies. Execution can never issue against
him upon any judgment recovered in favor of the taxpayer. The Government has enlarged the remedy against
itself by dispensing with what was once an indispensable
formality. As to subordinate officials who have acted
in the line of duty it has made the change innocuous by
assuming liability. One who is brought before the court
as a formal party only will'not be heard to object that
there has been a denial of due process in enlarging the
liability to be borne by some one else. Enough that the
legislation is valid as to him, whether it be valid or
invalid in its bearing upon others.
The decision of this case does not require us to deter
mine whether the Act of 1924 would affect the respond..
ent's liability if the certificate of the court converting the
suit into one against the Government were dependent upon
controverted facts, or upon facts permitting different inferences or calling upon the judge to exercise discretion.

384

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

No such situation is presented by the record now before
us. Indeed, no such situation, it would seem, can ever
be presented where a Collector has done no more than accept payment of a tax assessed by a superior who has been
invested by the statute with power to command. Our
duty does not require us to deal with problems merely
hypothetical. If a case should develop where a certificate
might issue as a matter of discretion, other questions
would be here. There would then be need to consider
whether the objection of a denial of due process would be
open to a Collector until a request for the certificate had
been made and refused. "Due process requires that there
be an opportunity to present every available defense; but
it need not be before the entry of judgment." American
Surety Co. v. Baldwin, 287 U.S. 156, 168; York v. Texas,
137 U.S. 15, 20. There would be need also to consider
*whether in its application to an officer acting of his own
motion, and not in the fulfilment of the command of a
superior, the requirement of protest is a procedural limitation upon the remedy for a wrong, or one of the substantive elements of the wrong itself. We leave those
questions open.
2. The Government contends that the claim for refund
filed by the petitioner with the Commissioner of Internal
Revenue was not subject to amendment after the. time
had gone by when a claim wholly new would have been
barred by limitation.
The claim in its original form gave notice of specific
errors in the adjustment of invested capital. It gave notice also in general terms that aside from any errors in the
adjustment of the capital there had been an erroneous assessment of net income at the sum of $16,940.18, when in
fact there had been a loss. We think the statements as
to income were subject to amendment. United States v.
Memphis Cotton Oil Co., 288 U.S. 62; United States v.
Factors& FinanceCo., 288 U.S. 89.
The judgment is
Reversed.

