AMER. CAR & F. CO. v. BRASSERT.
'253

Opinion of the Court.

ity for the negligence of the bailee. Obviously there is
no denial of equal protection, since all who permit their
cars to be driven in New York are treated alike. A claim
is also made that the statute as-applied violates the contract clause of the Federal Constitution, because it impairs the obligation of the contract of bailment made in
New Jersey. As it does, not appear that any claim under
the contract clause was made below, we need not consider
the answers to this contention.
Affirmed.
AMERICAN CAR & FOUNDRY CO. v. BRASSERT
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT

No. 623.

Argued March 23,'1933.-Decided May 8, 1933

The statute. limiting the liability of shipowners (R.S. 4283; 46 U.S.C.
183) is inapplicable to the case of the manufacturer of a vessel,
who has delivered it to a purchaser, retaining title merely to secure
payment of the price, and who seeks protection against liability
based on actionable negligence in the manufacture of the vessel.

P. 263.
61 F. (2d) 162, affirmed.
CERTIORARI,

288 U.S. 596, to review the affirmance of a

decree dismissing a libel seeking limitation of liability.
M esrs. Leonard F. Martin and PaulR. Conaghan,with
whom Messrs. Noah A. Stancliffe and John R. Cochran
were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Lewis C. Jesseph, with whom Mr. William Rothmann was on the brief for respondent.
MR CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
Petitioner, American Car and Foundry Company, a
manufacturer of gasoline propelled yachts and cruisers,

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

made a conditional sale of a cruiser to respondent. While
respondent was cruising in the vessel on the waters of
Lake Michigan an explosion occurred midship, fire foll6wed, and the vessel became a total Wreck and in consequence lay sunken and worthless. Alleging these facts,
that respondent and other persons with him on the vessel
had been injured, and that respondent's personal effects,
as well as the vessel, its machinery, equipment and supplies, were a total loss, and. that all the alleged injuries
and damages were occasioned and incurred without its
privity or knowledge, petitioner filed this libel against respondent seeking limitation of liability under the Act of
March 3, 1851, c. 43, ยง3. 46 U.S.C. 183. Respondent filed
exceptions, upon the ground that the libel did not disclose
that libellant was the owne' of the vessel or engaged- in
maritime commerce, or. any facts sufficient to show that
.libellant was. entitled to the limitation. The District
Court dismissed the libel and the Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the decree. 6i F. (2d) 162. This Court
granted certiorari.
The libel disclosed that the sole relation of petitioner to
the cruiser was that of manufacturer and vendor under a
contract of conditional sale. Respondent gave his order.
for the cruiser to be delivered on the terms stated and
subject to warranty against "defects in workmanship and
material" which by its terms was limited to replacement
of parts. The order was followed by a "conditional sale
agreement," by which respondent acknowledged receipt
of the boat in good condition and which provided for the
payment of the balance of the purchase price within
ninety days .after delivery and that, until such payment
or tender; title to the boat should remain in the seller.
Subject to the conditions of the agreement, the purchaser
was entitled to the possession and use of the boat with the
right on the part of the seller to retake it and its equipment in case of the purchaser's default. The purchaser

AMER. CAR & F. CO. v. BRASSERT.
261

263

Opinion of the Court.

was required to keep the boat insured with full marine
coverage, to pay all taxes and charges, to comply with all
applicable laws, and to hold the seller harmless from all
"liability, claim, demand, cost, charge and expense in any
Way imposed upon or accruing to seller" by reason of the
use or operation of the boat. The libel alleged that the
vessel when delivered to respondent was "sturdy, safe
and seaworthy." The cause of the accident, except as
above stated, is not shown. It appears to have occurred
prior to any default on the part of respondent and while
he was operating the vessel on his own behalf. The
libellant, while proceeding directly against respondent,
sought limitation against all claims.
The statute 1 limiting the liability of shipowners was
enacted to encourage investments in ships and their employment in commerce. That purpose embraced, as petitioner insists, the promotion of shipbuilding, but it was
not concerned with construction as a mere enterprise of
manufacture, which itself was not a maritime activity
(People's Ferry Co. v. Beers, 20 How. 393, 402; Edwards
v. Elliott, 21 Wall. 532, 554, 557; Thames Towboat Co. v.
The FrancisMcDonald,254 U.S. 243, 244), but with the
promotion of commerce and the encouragement "of persons engaged in the business of navigation," to the end
that the shipping interests of this country might not suffer
in competition with foreign vessels. Moore v. American
Transportation Co., 24 How. 1, 39; Norwich &o. v.
Wright, 13 Wall. 104, 121; The Main v. Williams, 152
"The liability of the owner of any vessel, for any embezzlement,
loss, or destruction, by any person, of any property, goods, or mer-

chandise, shipped or put on board of such vessel, or for any loss,
damage, or injury by collision, or for any act, matter, or thing, loss,
damage, or forfeiture, done, occasioned, or incurred without the privity, or knowledge of such owner or owners, shall in no case exceed the
amount or value of the interest of such owner in such vessel, and her
freight then pending."

R.S. 4283, 46 U.S.C. 183.

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

U.S. 122, 131; Evansville & B. G. Packet Co. v. Chero
Cola Co., 271 U.S. 19, 21; HartfordAccident Co. v. Southern Pacific Co., 273 U.S. 207, 214; Flink v. Paladini,279
U.S. 59, 62. The statute embodied the principle of the
general maritime law that shipowners should not "be liable beyond their interest. in the ship and freight for the
acts of the master and the crew done without their privity
or knowledge." Butler v. Boston Steamship Co., 130
U.S. 527, 549. The liability thus limited is an imputed
liability; it is a liability imputed&by law by reason of the
ownership of the vessel. For his own fault, neglect and
contracts the owner remains liable. Richardson v. Harmon, 222 U.S. 96, 103, 106; Pendletonv. Benner Line, 246
U.S. 353, 356.
Petitioner retained title solely for the purpose of securing the purchase price of the vessel, and prior to default
in payment, petitioner had no control over the vessel's
operation. Petitioner did not man or operate her, and
had no right to do so. For all purposes of use in navigation the vessel belonged to respondent. In these circumstances, petitioner was not liable as owner for acts of
respondent or for those of the master and crew. It is
well settled 2 that a mortgagee out of possession, and not
exercising authority, is not answerable for the acts of the
master or other agent of the ship. See Morgan's Assignees v. Shinn, 15 Wall. 105, 110; McIntyre v. Scott, 8
Johns. 159; Macy v. Wheeler, 30 N.Y. 231; Brooks v.
Bondsey, 17 Pick. 441; Davidson v. Baldwin, 79 Fed. 95;
Calumct & Hecla Mining Co. v. Equitable Trust Company, 275 Fed. 552; Parsons on Shipping and Admiralty,
129, note; Abbott, Merchant Ships and Seamen, 14th ed.,
p. 55. The same is true of a vendor who retains title as
2 Compare

Jackson v. Vernon, 1 H.BI. 114; Westerdell v. Dale, 7
Term Rep. 306; Mitcheson v. Oliver, 5 El. and B1. 419; Tucker v.
Buffington, 15 Mass. 477.

AMER. CAR & F. CO. v. BRASSERT.
261

265

Opinion of the Court.

security for the payment of the purchase price. See
Philips v. Ledley, 1 Wash.C.C. 226; Fed. Cas. No. 11,096;
Wendover v. Hogeboom, 7 Johns. 309; Leonard v. Hunt-,
ington, 15 Johns. 298; Thorn v. Hicks, 7 Cow. 697;
Jones v. Pitcher,3 Stewart 135; Hemm v. Williamson, 47
Ohio St. 493; 25 N.E. 1; The Boise Penrose, 22 F. (2d)
919, 920; The John E. Berwind, 56 F. (2d) 13. The
principle, generally recognized, was thus emphatically
stated in Thorn v. Hicks, supra: "The mere circumstance
of the naked legal title to the vessel" remaining in the
vendors "to secure the-purchase money for which she had
been sold, unquestionably would not render them liable as
owners, on the contracts of the master, or for the consequences of his negligence and unskilfulness."
What, then, is the liability which petitioner seeks to
l:.nit? It is manifestly not a liability imputed to petitioner as shipowner. With respect to respondent, the
mere fact that petitioner retained the legal title to the
vessel, in order to secure the payment of the remainder of
the price, neither created liability for the injury alleged
to have been sustained on account of the explosion nor
conferred immunity. If such liability existed, it arose
not because petitioner reserved title, while delivering possession and control of use, but because it was manufacturer and vendor. The question of liability would be determined with reference to the obligations which were expressly assumed by the vendor, or were inherent in the
transaction, irrespective of the title retained as security.
Similarly, as to other persons who are alleged to have suffered injury from the accident-the possible claimants
described in the libel-petitioner's liability, if any, had
no relation to any responsibility of petitioner as holder of
the naked title, but would depend upon petitioner's conduct as maker of the vessel, that is, upon the question
whether in the circumstances petitioner could be held

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.

266

289 U.S.

Syllabus.

guilty of actionable neglect in its manufacture. See Bohlen, "Studies . in the Law of Torts," pp. 109 et seq.; MacPhersonv. Buick Motor Co., 217 N.Y. 382; 111 N.E. 1050.
That question is not before us. Whatever liability there

may be in that aspect, either to respondent or to others,
it is not a liability falling within the policy and purview
of the Act of Congress limiting the liability of shipowners.
Decree affirmed.
FEDERAL

RADIO

COMMISSION

v, NELSON

BROTHERS BOND & MORTGAGE CO.

(STATION

WIBO)
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT
OF COLUMBIA

No. 657. Argued April 11, 1933.-Decided May 8, 1933
1. Congress can confer administrative authority on courts of the District of Columbia; but jurisdiction to review administrative ques
tions can not be exercised by this Court. P. 274.
2. Under the amended Radio Act, which limits review of the Radio
Commission by the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia
to "questions of law" and provides "that findings of fact by the
Commission, if supported by substantial evidence, shall be conclusive unless it shall clearly appear that the findings of the Commission are arbitrary or capricious," the function of that court is no
longer administrative but is purely judicial, and its' judgments are
reviewable in this Court by certiorari. Federal Radio Comm'n v.
General Electric Co., 281 U.S. 464, distinguished. Pp. 275-278.
3. The fact that the judicial remedy is by appeal from the Commission rather than by a suit de novo, does not affect its judicial
quality. P. 277.
4. That clause of the Act which provides that in ca-c of a reversal
the court "shall remand the case to the Commission to carry out
Together with No. 658, Federal Radio Comm'n v. North Shore
Church (Station WPCC); No. 659, Federal Radio Comm'n et al. v.
Nelson Brothers Bond & Mortgage Co. (Station WIBO); and No.
660, Federal Radio Comm'n et al. v. North Shore Church (Station

WPCC).

