BUFFUM v. BARCELOUX CO.
Syllabus.

224

In truth, to the knowledge of the maker of the entries,
there were not two signatures, but one.
Nothing at war with our conclusion was said, much less
decided, in Coffin v. United States, 156 U.S. 432, 462. The
opinion in that case is to be read in the light of a later
opinion in the same case (162 U.S. 664), and of the still
later opinion in Agnew v. United States, supra. Whether

the conclusion would be the same if the signature had
been genuine, but the signer had been known to be an insolvent, or a man of straw (cf. Cooper v. United States,
13 F. (2d) 16; Morse v. United States, supra; United
States v. Warn, supra,Billingsley v. United States, supra),
there is no occasion to determine. Our decision does not
go beyond the limits of the case before us.
The judgment should be reversed and the case remanded
to the District Court for further proceedings in accordance
Reversed.
with this opinion.
BUFFUM, TRUSTEE IN BANKRUPTCY, v.)PETER
BARCELOUX CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT
No. 564.

Argued March 20, 21, 1933.-Decided April 10, 1933

1. Where a pledge, followed by a secret and unfair sale to the pledgee
fcr much less than value, was part of a general scheme of the
parties to defraud the pledgor's creditors; the remedy of his trustee in bankruptcy is not merely to set aside the sale and have a
new one ordered, but to set aside the pledge and recover the
property or its value. Bankruptcy Act, § 70 (e). P. 232.
2. Even though one of the creditors of a bankrupt, by accepting a
Sjunior lien, may have estopped himself from attacking a pledge
made by the bankrupt in fraud of creditors, this does not prevent
the Trustee from setting it aside under J 70 (e); and recovery
will be for the benefit of all the creditors. Moore v. Bay, 284

U.S. 4. P. 233.

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 US.

3. A creditor who takes security on his insolvent debtor's property
subject to a specific lien may be estopped while he retains
the benefit. from disavowing the attendant burden; but the basis
for an estoppel is cut away if the transaction is lawfully disaffirmed
and his security is abandoned. P. 234.
4. The right to object to equity jurisdiction, upon the ground of
adequate remedy at law, may be waived. P. 235.
5. A trustee who sells property in fraud of his trust and buys it back
pending suit, must account, at the option of the cestui que trust,
for the. value at the time of sale, with interest, or for the property
itself. Pp. 235-236.
6. This duty is the same whether the trust be actual or constructive,
for the implication of a trust is the implication of every duty proper
to a trust. P. 237.
7. A creditor of a bankrupt is entitled to participate on the same
basis with other creditors in the distribution of assets recovered
from him by the trustee in a suit under § 70 (e). Moore v. Bay,
284 U.S. 4. P. 237.
61 F. (2d) 145, reversed.
CERTIORARI 288 U.S. 595, to review the reversal of a
money decree secured by Buffum, Trustee, in a suit under
§ 70 (e) of the Bankruptcy Act to set aside a fraudulent

transfer.

51 F. (2d) 80, modified and affirmed.

Messrs. Horace B. Wulff and George R. Freeman,
with whom Messrs. Robert T. Devlin and Win. H. Devlin were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Arthur C. Huston, with whom Mr. Stephen W..
Downey was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
In April, 1926, the bankrupt, Henry Barceloux, was the
owner of 2500 shares of the Peter Barceloux Company, a
quarter of the capital stock. The other three quarters
were owned, one by his brother George, one by his sister
Cora, and one by three nephews, the sons of a deceased

BUFFUM v. BARCELOUX CO.
227

229

Opinion of the Court.

brother. The book value of the bankrupt's shares was
over $90,000, and the actual value over $94,000, but the
shares were not traded in, and had no current value in the
market. The business was a family affair, and strangers
were not welcome within the family preserve.
A time arrived when the unwelcome stranger seemed
likely to break in. The family combined to maintain its
solidarity and keep the intruder out. Henry Barceloux
had become heavily involved in debt. A former partner,
Freeman, had recovered a judgment against him fornearly $50,000. Freeman had been lenient, but Freeman
was now dead, and the administrator was asking for security as the price of delay. There were other creditors too,
though. they are not shown to have been importunate.
With these intruders visible, the family' set out to build
protective barriers. There is testimony that Henry Barceloux was indebted to the corporation in upwards of
$33,000. On April 27, 1926, he secured part of this
indebtedness by a pledge of 2499 shares of the Barceloux
stock. The agreement was in writing. We are assured
by the family that it was confirmatory of an oral agreement made some years before, but the testimony as to
this is not persuasive, and might, not unreasonably, be
rejected by the trier of the facts. The movement of
events was swift thereafter. The Freeman administrator
had still to be placated. He was put off in June, 1926,
with an assignment of the equity in the Barceloux shares
together with an assignment of an interest in heavily
mortgaged lands. He gave notice to the corporation of
his interest in the shares and made demand upon the
secretary for a statement of the indebtedness secured by
the superior lien. He also asked for an agreement that
the corporation give him notice of ninety days before enforcing its security. His activity aroused the family to
new measures of protection. The request for notice was

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

refused, and the defensive barrier extended. Henry Barceloux was then the owner of shares of stock in other corporations, his ownership till then being clear of any lien.
On June 29, 1926, he pledged his interest in these shares
(worth about $2158) as additional security for the family
debt. In so doing he stripped himsbf of the control of all
or nearly all his unincumbered assets. On the same
day, or perhaps a few days later, the corporation canceled
the certificate for 2499 shares which was in the name of
the pledgor, and took out a new certificate in its own
name as pledgee.
The scene was now. ready. The time for action was at
hand. On August 16, 1926, there was the gesture of a
public sale. A printed notice had been posted on a telegraph pole and perhaps elsewhere, There was no other
notice either to Freeman or to any one else. At the appointed time, the members of the family, accompanied by
a lawyer, went through the form of an auction on the
steps of the court house. The debtor's sister, Cora, who
was a director of the corporation, read the notice of sale
and %sked for bids; all the collateral, both the Barceloux
shares and the others, being offered as a single lot. The
brother George,-who was then the president, made a bid
for the entire lot in the name of the Barceloux corporation, the bid being for the amount of its claim against the
debtor and a fee for its attorney. No sooner had the corporation bought than it sold back again to George. In
payment for what it sold, it took his promissory note with
a pledge of the shares as collateral security. About two
years later, it canceled the resale, gave back the promissory note and thereafter held the shares as owner. In the
meanwhile a few scraps of property retained by Henry
Barceloux had been put out of his name. He still held
one share in the Barceloux Company. He sold it to his
sister. He had equities in other properties, lands and
'shares of stock. He sold part to his sister and part to his

BUFFUM v. BARCELOUX CO.
227

231

Opinion of the Court.

wife. The value in each instance was in excess of the
price. The equity in collateral pledged with a bank in
San Francisco went to the Barceloux Company, which
assumed the payment of the debt. All that was then left
to him was his office furniture and fixtures, and this he
transferred to his attorney. By October, 1926, he had
stripped himself of everything. He waited four months,
and became a voluntary bankrupt..
The trustee in bankruptcy has brought this suit under
§ 70 (e) of the National Bankruptcy Act * to recover
from the Barceloux Company the value of property
pledged by the bankrupt with fraudulent intent. At the
filing of the bill the company had resold the shares to
George Barceloux, its president; and the prayer for relief,
adapting itself to the situation then existing, was for the
value of the shares on August 16, 1926, with interest at
7%, the statutory rate of interest in the state of California. There was also a prayer for an accounting and for
any other relief consistent with equity. The District
Court found that the fraudulent intent had been made
out; that both pledgor and pledgee were sharers in it;
and that there should be an appointment of a master to
take and state an account and to report the value of the
property covered by the pledge. Upon the coming in
of the report, there was a final judgment for $106,409.44,
with costs,, in favor of the trustee. 51 F. (2d) 80.
An appeal by the defendant followed with the result
that the decree was reversed, one judge dissenting. 61 F.
(2d) 145. The Court of Appeals held that the Freeman
"The trustee may avoid any transfer by the bankrupt of his
property which any creditor of such bankrupt might have avoided,
and may recover the property so transferred, or its value, from the
person to whom it was transferred, unless he was a bona fide holder
for value prior to the date of the adjudication." National Bankruptcy Act, § 70 (e), July 1, 1898, c. 54i, 30 Stat. 565; 11 U.S. Code,

§ 110.

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 US.

administrator was estopped from contesting the, validity
of the pledge by reason of the fact that he had accepted a
pledge of the equity in the shares, subject by its terms to
the pledge already made. Finding no sufficient evidence
that other creditors were aggrieved, it refused to pass
upon the question whether the pledge as to them was good
or bad. It held, however, that the sale under the pledge
had not been fairly made, and that a resale should be
ordered. Upon the argument the defendant had made
profert of the Barceloux certificate, and had left it with
the court to be disposed of in any way consistent with
equity and conscience. The shares in other corporations
it could not produce, having disposed of them again. The
court held that there could be no recovery of the value
of the Barceloux shares in view of the willingness of the
defendant to submit to a resale. Judgment was therefore ordered that the shares be resold under the direction
of the court of bankruptcy; that out of the proceeds the
Barceloux Company be paid its indebtedness with interest (less the value of the shares that it was unableto surrender); and that only the surplus, if any, be paid to the
trustee. A writ of certiorari brings the case here.
1. The evidence sustains the finding of the District
Court that the pledge to the defendant was made in fraud
of creditors.
More is here than a mere preference. If that and nothing else had been intended, the pledge would be proof
against attack, for it was made more than four months
before the bankruptcy petition. But in truth there was
much besides. The pledge was a step in a general plan
which must be viewed as a whole with all its composite
implications. Dean v. Davis, 242 U.S. 4387 444; Coder v.
Arts, 213 U.S. 223, 224. The principal assets of the
debtor were his certificates of stock in the family corporation. There was to be a delivery of these certificates as
security for an indebtedness much less than the value of

BUFFUM v. BARCELOUX CO.
227

233

Opinion of the Court.

the collateral deposited. There was to be a delivery of
other security to make sure that all the assets of the
debtor, not otherwise incumbered, would be within the
control of the pledgee. There was to be a sale so secret
that none of the creditors would be likely to know anything about it, with the result that other bids would be
forestalled, and embarrassing inquiries as to preferences
averted. Finally, to make the job a thorough one, the
odds and ends of other assets were to be conveyed to
friends or relatives. As the outcome of these manceuvres
the Bareeloux Company canceled an indebtedness of
about $33,000, and became the owner of stock certificates
worth triple that amount. The unconscionable sale is
not to be viewed in isolation, as something disconnected
from the pledge, an accident or afterthought. It was
the fruit for which the seed was planted, or so the trier of
the facts might look at it. The Barceloux Company set
out to do something more than secure the payment of a
debt. It became a party to a plan to appropriate a surplus and in combination with its debtor to hold his creditors at bay. Dean v. Davis, supra; Shapiro v. Wilgus,
287 U.S. 348. So the District Judge interpreted the transaction, viewing the events consecutively as stages of an
unfolding plot. We discover no sufficient reason for
rejecting his conclusion. Indeed the Circuit Court of
Appeals held nothing to the contrary. It refrained from
approving or condemning the purpose of the pledge, being
led to that course by the application of the doctrine of
estoppel. The finding therefore stands.
2. The trustee is not subject to the bar of an estoppel
in his effort to undo the fraud.
The argument for the defendant is that the Freeman
administrator is estopped by force of his acceptance of a
junior lien upon the shares, and that the trustee as his
champion enjoys no better right. To overcome the supposed estoppel it is enough to recall the fact that at the

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

time of 'the unlawful pledge the Freeman administrator
was not the only creditor. The uncontradicted evidence
is that there were many other creditors whose claims are
still unpaid, What the trustee recovers will be for the
benefit of all. Moore v. Bay, 284 U.S. 4.
The result would not be different, however, if the administrator stood alone. Neither in. his own name nor
indirectly through the trustee is he building any rights
upon the pledge or claiming any preference over others.
He has rejected the security, and claims as a general
creditor. There may have been obscurity 'as to this at
the beginning of the suit. The bill of complaint which
was a declaration by the trustee, and not by the administrator, gives recognition to the junior pledge as valid and
subsisting. There has been no obscurity, however, sihce
the trial and the interlocutory judgment. The pledge to
the administrator is disregarded, and he is left in the same
position with reference to any general creditors as if the
transaction putting him ahead of them had been undone
from the beginning. One who takes a mortgage or an
assignment of an interest in property subject to a specific
lien may be estopped while he retains the benefit from
disavowing the attendant burden. Freeman v. Auld, 44
N.Y. .50, 53; Matter of Oakes, 248 N.Y. 280, 284; 162 N.E.
79. He either takes the security upon the terms conditioning the offer, or does not take it at all. The basis for
an estoppel is cut away if the transaction is lawfully disaffirmed and the security abandoned. Old National Bank
v. Heckman, 148 Ind. 490, 507;.47 N.E. 953. Cf. Bybee
v. Oregon & Cal. R. Co., 139 U.S. 663, 682.
Disaffirmance and abandonment in this instance rested
on sufficient grounds. The Freeman administrator,
though informed of the fact that there was a pledge superior to his, had no knowledge of anything else. He
was not informed of the circumstances essential to an

BUFFUM v. BARCELOUX CO.
227

Opinion of the Court.

understanding of the fraud. He did not even know, so
far as the evidence discloses, whether the pledge was new
or old. Only through later events was the collusive plan
exhibited in all its sinister significance. There can be no
irrevocable
estoppel when the truth has been withheld.
3. The repurchase
of the certificates by the fraudulent
grantee during the pendency of the suit did not make it
error for a court of equity to render judgment for the
value.
There is no occasion to consider what relief would
have
been proper if the certificates had been owned by the defendant at the filing of the bill, and had been continuously
retained thereafter. We may assume, though we do not
decide, that the trustee, suing in such circumstances for
an accounting in equity, would have had the shares, and
not the value. See Dunphy v. Kleinsmith, 11 Wall. 610;
Wasey v. Holbrook, 141 App. Div. 336, 125 N.Y.S. 1087;
206 N.Y. 708, 99 N.E. 11; and compare American Law
Institute, Restatement of Law of Trusts, Tentat;. Draft
No. 3, § 199, and cases cited, pp. 157, 158. The fact is,
however, that at the filing of the bill, the defendant had
assigned the certificates to another, who was not a party
to the suit. The assignment is alleged in the complaint
and admitted in the answer. Not till May 11, 1928, after
the answer had been filed, did George Barceloux return
his certificates to the defendant and thus reinstate its title.
This being so, the suit in its inception was properly
framed as one for money relief, the value of the shares at
the time of the foreclosure of the pledge. There was no
objection at any stage of the controversy that the case was.
triable by a jury. Schoenthal v. Irving Trust Co., 287
U.S. 92; United States v. Bitter Root Co., 200 U.S. 451.
In saying this we do not intimate that the objection would
have prevailed, if seasonably urged. There were entanglements that may have called for discovery and accounting,

236

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

at least in possible contingencies. The point will not be
labored, for at the trial the defendant did not argue to the
contrary (Reynes v. Dumont, 130 U.S. 354, 395; American
'Mills Co. v. American Suety Co., 260 U.S. 360, 363;
Schoenthal v. Irving Trust Co., s'zpra, at p.' 96),'and does
not even now. By common consent the suit was tried
as one in equity, the fraudulent grantee beihg held to account as a trustee ex malefici6 for the value of the shares
which it had fraudulently acquired and then conveyed to
some one else. United. States v. Dunn, 268 U.S. 121;
Independent Coal & Coke Co. v. United States, 274 U.S.
640, 647; Newton v. Porter,69 N.Y. 133; Hamilton National Bank v. Halsted, 134 N.Y. 520, 527; 31 N.E. 900.
A like recovery would have been permitted if the suit had
been at law.
The defendant being chargeable with the value upon
the filing of the bill, the question for us now is whether
it could change its liability by buying back the shares.
The answer is supplied by the opinion of Story, J., in
Oliver v. Piatt,3 How. 333, 401, a landmark in the law of
trusts. The trustee who misapplies the subject matter
of a trust becomes accountable at once for the proceeds
or the value. Cf. Hamilton National Bank v. Halsted,
aupra. Nothing that he can do afterwards in buying the
property back will affect that liability, except at the option of the beneficiary complaining of the wrong. "This
right or option of the cestui que trust is one which positively and exclusively belongs to him, and it is not in the
power of the trustee to deprive him of it by any repurchase
of the trust property, although in the latter case the cestui
que trust may, if he pleases, avail himself of his own'
right, and take back and hold the property upon the
original trust; but he is not compellable so to do." Oliver v. Piatt, supra; and cf. Bunnel v. Stoddard, 4 Fed.
Cas. 667* 683; Miles v. Coombs, 120 Maine 453, 455;
'

BUFFUM v. BARCELOUX CO.
227

Opinion of the Court.

115 Atl. 249; Burwell v. Burwell's Guardian,78 Va. 574,
582; Bate v. Scales, 12 Ves. 402; American Law Institute, Restatement of Law of Trusts, supra. Any other
rule, it was said, would enable the wrongdoer to take advantage of his own wrong; to let the transaction stand, if
the investment showed a profit and by aid of a repurchase
to charge the beneficiary with an intermediate decline.
Cf. Barney v. Saunders, 16 How. 535, 543. The standard"of duty is no different whether the trust to be enforced is actual or constructive. United States -v. Dunn,
supra; Independent Coal & Coke Co. v. United States,
supra; Newton v. Porter, supra. The implication of a
trust is the implication of every duty proper to a trust.
Equity has its distinctive standards of fidelity and honor,
higher at times than the standards of the market place.
Meinhard v. Salmon, 249 N.Y. 458, 468; 164 N.E. 545.
Whoever is a fiduciary or in conscience chargeable as a
fiduciary is expected to live up to them.
. 4. The ruling of the trial court whereby the highest
value of the property up to the time of the decree was
made the, measure of the recovery was not harmful to
the defendant.
The recovery would have been larger if the value at the
sale with legal interest thereafter had been adopted as the
measure.
5. The defendant may participate on the same basis
with other creditors in the distribution of the assets.
The decree of the District Court is erroneous in so far
as the claim of, the defendant is postponed to those of
others. Moore v. Bay, supra.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed,
and that of the- District Court modified in accordance
with this opinion and as modified affirmed.
Reversed.

