CONSOL. TEXTILE CO. v. GREGORY.

85

Opinion of the Court.

CONSOLIDATED TEXTILE CORP. v. GREGORY,
JUDGE
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF WISCONSIN

No. 587.

Argued March 22, 1933.-Decided April 10, 1933

1. When it is claimed in a case from a state court that service on a
foreign corporation is void under the due process clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment because the corporation was not present
and doing business in the State, this Court will ascertain for itself
the facts disclosed by the record. P. 86.
2. Selling goods in a State through a controlled subsidiary does not
.subject a foreign corporation to a general liability to be sued there.
Cannon Mfg. Co. v. Cudahy Co., 267 U.S. 333, 336, 337. P. 88.
3. In order to hold a foreign corporation, not licensed to do business
in a State, responsible under the process of a local court, the record
must disclose that it was carrying on 'business there at the time of
attempted service. P. 88.
209 Wis. 476; 245 N.W. 194, reversed.

from a judgment denying a writ of prohibition
to prevent further prosecution of an action on certain
bonds.
APPEAL

Mr. Eldon Bisbee, with whom Messrs. H. G. Pickering,
Bertram F. Shipman, Louis A. Lecher, and Suel 0. Arnold

were on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Morris Karon, with whom Mr. Walter L. Gold was
on the brief, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
By an original proceeding in the Supreme Court of
Wisconsin appellant unsuccessfully sought a writ commanding the Judge of the Circuit Court of Milwaukee
County to desist from further proceedings in the cause
instituted against it by Katherine Gold to recover principal and interest of certain bonds then in default. The

86

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

petition disclosed the circumstances under which the
original summons and complaint were served upon the
president of the corporation and alleged that although
the Circuit Court had not acquired jurisdiction it was
about to enter judgment contrary to the inhibition of the
XIV Amendment.
An alternative writ issued. The trial Judge, appellee
here, made a return in which he incorporated the evidence
relieG, on to sustain his conclusion that jurisdiction had
been acquired through service of summons as authorized
by statute. The Supreme Court ruled that the statuteWisconsin Statutes, (1931) ยง 262.09-had been properly
construed and applied; also that there was nothing to
show conflict with the Federal Constitution. Accordingly
the prayer for relief was denied. The validity of the
statute was adequately challenged; the matter is here
by appeal.
In the circumstances we, must ascertain for ourselves
the facts disclosed by the record. Philadelphia& Reading Ry. Co. v. McKibbin, 243 U.S. 264; Truax v. Cornigan, 257 U.S. 312, 324, 325. These appear from the pleadings and three affidavits presented in the trial court on
the motion to vacate service of the summons-one by
Frederick Rupprecht in support of the *motion and two
in opposition by Walter-L. Gold and Morris Karon.
It appears:
The Consolidated Textile Corporation is organized under
the laws of Delaware. It has never been licensed to do
business in Wisconsin; has no place of business or property therein, and no officer or agent is stationed in that
State. Its principal place of business is New York City
and its president, Frederick K. Rupprecht, resides there.
In 1921 the Corporation issued and sold a series of
twenty-year, 8% bonds, with interest coupons payable
semi-annually. Coupons due December 1, 1930, and

CONSOL. TEXTILE CO. v. GREGORY..
85

87

Opinion of the Court.

thereafter, were not paid. A Bondholders' Committee received on deposit 70% of the outstanding bonds.
Walter L. Gold, an attorney with offices in Milwaukee,
Wisconsin, and others represented by him, owners of
$9,200 of these bonds, declined to deposit them with the
Committee and caused suit to be brought in the Municipal Court, New York City, to recover interest which fell
due December 1, 1930. In that suit motion for summary
judgment was granted.
Rupprecht, President of the Corporation, believing that
the interest of all bondholders would be subserved if final
judgment were withheld, by communications sent from
New York sought a conference with Gold at Milwaukee
for the purpose of acquainting him with the facts and
dissuading him from permitting final judgment. He, with
reluctance, assented. With the sole purpose of engaging
in such conference and without intending to submit the
Corporation to the jurisdiction of the State of Wisconsin,
Rupprecht went to Gold's law office in Milwaukee on the
morning of January 14, 1932. His intention was to discuss the New York suit and to present facts which he
believed would cause Gold to withhold final judgment in
the New York case and agree to deposit his own bonds,
and recommend the deposit of others, with the Bondholders' Committee.
During an interview lasting one and one-half hours, in
the attorney's office, sundry matters relating to the Corporation's affairs were discussed. While there, Rupprecht was served with summonses (also complaints) addressed to the Corporation, commanding that it appear
and answer in separate actions instituted by Katherine
Gold and six others to recover upon certain of the abovedescribed bonds and interest-all of whom Gold represented. In anticipation of Rupprecht's arrival in Milwaukee the summonses and complaints had been prepared.

88

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

In his affidavit Gold stated that he had " been informed,
that through Consolidated Selling Co., Inc., which is the
selling agency for Consolidated Textile Corporation and
is a subsidiary wholly controlled by Consolidated Textile
Corporation and is an agent of Consolidated Textile Corporation, the Consolidated Textile Corporation sells goods
in Wisconsin, to-wit: to Gimbel Bros. in Milwaukee and
Sears, Roebuck & Co., in Milwaukee."
The unimportance of the ,statement concerning acts of
the controlled corporation (Consolidated Selling Company) is clear enough in the light of what we said in
Cannon Mfg. Co. v. Cudahy Co., 267 U.S. 333, 336, 337.
In order to hold a foreign corporation, not licensed to
do business in a State, responsible under the process of
a local court, the record must disclose that it was carrying on business there at the time of attempted service.
International Harvester Co. v. Kentucky, 234 U.S. 579,
583, 585.
"The general rule deducible from all our decisions is
that the business must be of such nature and character
as to warrant the inference that the corporation has subjected itself to the local jurisdiction, and is by its duly
authorized officers or agents present within the State or
district where service is attempted." People's Tobacco
Co. v. American Tobacco Co., 246 U.S. 79, 87.
Opinions here in recent causes sanctioning and applying this general rule show plainly enough, we think, that
the appellant Corporation was not present within the
jurisdiction of Wisconsin as required. Philadelphia &
Reading Ry. Co. v. McKibbin, 243 U.S. 264; Rosenberg
Co. v. Curtis Brown Co., 260 U.S. 516; Bank of America v.
Whitney Bank, 261 U.S. 171, 173; James-Dickinson Co. v.
Harry,273 U.S. 119, 122.
The judgment of the court below must be reversed.
The cause will be remanded there for further proceedings
not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.

