352

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Syllabus.

289 U.S.

Act] covers the whole field so far as the spread of the
plant disease by interstate transportation can be affected
and restrained ... The state laws of quarantine that affect interstate commerce and this federal law cannot stand
together. The relief sought to protect the different
States, in so far as it depends on the regulation of interstate commerce, must be obtained through application
to the Secretary of Agriculture."
Unlike the Act of 1903, the Plant Quarantine Act does
not, by specification of the cases in which action under
it shall be exclusive, disclose the intention of Congress
that, subject to the limitations defined, state measures
may be enforced. This difference is essential and controlling.
Plaintiffs' other contentions are not substantial and
need not be specifically discussed.
Affirmed.
UNITED STATES EX REL. GREATHOUSE ET
DERN, SECRETARY OF WAR, ET AL.

AL. V..

CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA,

No. 677. Argued April 11, 12, 193.-Decided May 8, 1933
1. Allowance of the remedy by mandamus is controlled by equitable
principles. P. 359.
2. The court, in its discretion, may refuse mandamus to compel the
doing of an idle act, or where public injury or embarrassment would
result from granting it. P. 360.
3. Owners of land on the Virginia side of the Potomac opposite Washington, claiming title to upland extending by accretion to present
high water, and the right, by common law and under the MarylandVirginia Compact of 1785, to wharf out in a manner approved by
the Chief of Army Engineeis a's
not obstructive of navigation, sought

by mandamus to compel the Secretary of War to approve under
the Act of March 3, 1899, to the end that they might consummate
a sale of the land under a contract made conditional upon such

UNITED STATES v. DERN.
352

Opinion of the Court.

approval. Held that, putting aside doubts concerning the petitioners' property and the duty of the Secretary under the statute,
mandamus was properly refused upon the grounds that the Government has devoted both the lands of the United States constituting the bed of the river at the locus in quo, and the upland
adjacent, to a parkway, the plans for which contemplate the taking
of part of petitioners' property, so that the apparent consequence
of authorizing the wharf would be only to increase the expense to
the Government of constructing such parkway. Pp. 358-360:
63 F. (2d) 137, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 288 U.S. 598, to review the affirmance of
a judgment denying a writ of mandamus.
Mr. Spencer Gordon, with "whom Messrs. J. Harry
Covington and John Marshall were on the brief, for
petitioners.
Mr. Seth W. Richardson, with whom Solicitor General
Thacher and Messrs. G. A. Iverson and Erwin N. Griswold were on the brief, for respondents.
MR. JiSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.
The relators, petitioners here, filed their petition in
the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia for a
writ of mandamus to compel the Secretary of War and
the Chief of Engineers to authorize the construction of
a wharf in'the Potomac River within the District of
Columbia adjacent to their land on the Virginia shore,
the .construction being forbidden by § 10 of the Act of
March 3, 1899, c. 425, 30 Stat. 1121, 1151, 33 U.S.C.,
§ 403, "except on plans recommended by the Chief of
Engineers and authorized by the Secretary of War." The
judgment of the Supreme Court denying the writ was
affirmed by the District Court of Appeals. 61 App.D.C.
360; 63 F. (2d) 137. This Court granted certiorari. 288
U.S. 598.
Petitioners claim title through a grant to their predecessors in interest of a plot of upland lying in the
15450*-33-23

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

State of Virginia, which extended at the time of the grant
-to the Potoinac River. The upland has been enlarged
by the recession of the river toward the north and it is
the contention of the petitioners that the enlargement
is due to accretion, with the result that their ownership
has been extendIed beyond the shore line of the river,
as it existed at the time of the grant, to the present high
water line, a claim which is put in issue by the answer.
But it is conceded that the bed of the river below high
water mark, where the proposed wharf is to be built, lies
within the District of Columbia and that title to it and
sovereignty over it were vested in the United States by
cession from the State of Maryland of the area constituting the present District of Columbia. See Maryland
Laws, 2 Kilty, Sess. of November 1791, c. 45; Smoot
Sand & Gravel Corp. v. Washington Airport, 283 U.S.
348; Maryland v. West Virginia, 217 U.S. 577; Marine
Railway Co. v. United States, 257 U.S. 47, 64; Morris v.
United States, 174 U.S. 196, 225; Revised Statutes relating to the District of Columbia (1875), § 1. Within this
area Congress has the plenary power to control navigation which was vested in the United States before the
cession and which it exercises generally over navigable
waters within the several states. It also acquired' by
the cession proprietary powers over the lands lying under
water, and under Article 1, § 8 of the Constitution, granting exclusive legislative power over the District, the
sovereign power to regulate and control their use for public purposes other than navigation.
Petitioners have entered into a contract for the sale of
their lands, conditioned upon securing permission to
build the wharf, which is to be built and used by the purr
chaser in connection with a plant to be established on the
upland for the storage of gasoline. It is stipulated on the
record that the proposed wharf, which is to be constructed
in conformity to plans approved by the Chief of Engi-

UNITED STATES v. DERN.
352

Opinion of the Court.

neers, will not interfere with navigation. Petitioners assert a right as riparian owners to build and maintain it
upon two grounds, first, that by the common law rule as
developed in the United States, the ownership of land
bordering on a navigable river carries with it the right to
build and maintain below high water mark a wharf or
structure, not an obstruction to navigation (see
Shively v. Bowlby, 152 U.S. 1; United States v. River
Rouge Co;, 269 U.S. 411, 418; Norfolk v. Cooke, 27
Grat. 430; Baltimore & Ohio R. Co. v. Chase, 43 Md.
23) and, second, that by Paragraph "Seventh " of the
Compact of 1785 between Maryland and Virginia, ratified by Virginia March 28, 1785, 12 Hening, Virginia Stat.
50, and by Maryland, March 12, 1786, Maryland Laws,
2 Kilty, Session of November 1785, c. 1, it was provided:
"The citizens of each state respectively shall have full
property in the shores of Patowmack River adjoining
their lands, with all emoluments and advantages thereunto belonging, and the privilege of making and carrying
out wharfs and other improvements, so as not to obstruct

-other

or injure the navigation of the river;..

They insist that as the proposed wharf will not interfere with navigation and as plans for its construction have
been approved by the Chief of Engineers, it is the legal
duty of the Secretary of War, under § 10 of the Rivers and
Harbors Appropriation Act of March 3, 1899, to grant the
desired permit. It is conceded by the government that
the only basis for the Secretary's refusal to authorize the
construction of the wharf is that it would be inimical to
the establishment of the proposed George Washington
Memorial Parkway authorized by Act of Congress of
May 29, 1930, c. 354, 46 Stat. 482.
By this legislation Congress appropriated $7,500,000
for the construction of a parkway a part of which is to
extend along the Virginia shore of the Potomac River
from Mount Vernon to a point above the Great Falls.

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion'of the Court.

289 U.S.

It authorized the National Capital Park and Planning
Commission "to occupy such land belonging to the United
States as may be necessary for the development and protection" of the Parkway. Construction of the Parkway
was authorized as a part of the federal-aid highway prograin and was made conditional upon the contribution by
Maryland or Virginia or others of one-half the cost of the
required lands, other than those of the United States.
But the Commission was empowered, in its discretion, to
advance the full cost of the Parkway upon securing un• dertakings from these states, upon terms prescribed by
the statute, to repay one-half of the cost to the federal
government. A part of the Parkway, the Mount Vernon
Memorial Highway,. extending along the Virginia shore
of the river from Mount Vernon to a point within the
District of Columbia, a short distance below the land of
'-the petitioners, has been completed.
Pending this suit, but before its trial, the Park and
Planning Commission, by resolutions of September 2426, 1931, declared that certain lands of the United States,
described by metes and bounds, running along the high
water line of 1863 on the Virginia. side of the river, as
established by United States Coast Survey, and extending
to the center line of the channel of the river, are necessary for the development and protection of the Parkway.
By further resolution, the Commission declared that it
took complete and exclusive possession of these lands,
which include the river, bed where it is proposed to build
the wharf and the upland claimed by petitioners by accretion. It directed that copies of the resolutions be posted
on each parcel, which was done before the hearing in this
suit. A description of each was also sent to the Attorney
General for the purpose of having suits filed under the Act
of April 27, 1912, c. 96, 37 Stat. 93, which authorizes suits
by the Attorney General to quiet title to lands adversely
held or claimed lying under and adjacent to the Potomac

UNITED STATES v. DERN.
352

367

Opinion of the Court.

River within the District of Columbia. The plans of the
Commission also contemplate the construction of a highway across petitioners' upland as a means of access to the
Parkway.
I
It is apparent that petitioners are entitled to the relief
prayed only if' several doubtful questions are resolved in
their favor. They are (1) whether a mandatory duty is
imposed upon the Secretary of War by § 10 of the Rivers
and Harbors Appropriation Act to authorize the construc-.
tion of the proposed wharf if he is satisfied that it will not
interfere with navigation; (2) whether in fact petitioners
have title, by accretion to the upland adjacent to the river
at the point where it is proposed to build the wharf, and
- thus have the status of riparian owners; (3) whether even
.. as riparian owners of land lying within Virginia, petitioners, in the absence of a legislative grant either'by
Maryland before the cession or by the United States after
it, have a common law right to build a wharf on the adjacent lands of the United States lying in the bed of the
river, see Casey's Lessee v. Inloes, 1 Gill 430; Browne v.
Kennedy, 5 Harris & J. 195; Giraud's Lessee v. Hughes,
1 Gifl & Johns. 249, 265; Wilson's Lessee v. Inloes, 11 Gill
& Johns. 351; Hammond's Lessee ,v. Inloes, 4 Md. 138;
Horner v. Pleasants, 66 Md. 475; 7 Atl. 691; Attorney
General v. Hudson County Water Co., 76 N.J.Eq. 543;
76 Atl. 560, or if not (4) whether their predecessors -in
-title acquired such a right under Paragraph Seventh of
the Maryland-Virginia Compact, Georgetown v. Alexandria Canal Co., 12 Pet. 91; Potomac Steamboat Co. v.
Upper Potomac Steamboat Co., 109 U.S. 672, 675; (5)
whether" if.such a right were derived from the Compact, it
was not lost before its exercise by the union in the single
ownership of tht United States of the land under the river,
and on both sides of it, which resulted from the cession by
Maryland and Virginia of the a -aoriginally embraced
in the District of Columbia and continued until the retro-

358

-OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 Us.

cession in 1846 of the lands on the Virginia side, see
Georgetown v. Alexandria Canal Co., supra; Evans v.
United States, 31 App.D.C. 544, 550; Herald v. United
States, 284 Fed. 927; and (6) whether the right claimed
is not in any case subordinate to the power of the United
States, in its capacity as proprietor and sovereign, to

devote the river bed to a public purpose, as has been done
by the action of the Commission, taken under authority of
Act' of Congress authorizing the George Washington Memorial Parkway. See Fox River Paper Co. v. Railroad
Commission of Wisconsin, 274 U.S. 651; United States v.
Chandler-DunbarCo., 229 U.S. 53; Barney v. Keokuk, 94
U.S. 324; Giraud's Lessee v. Hughes, supra; Casey's
Lessee v. Inloes, supra; Linthicum v. Coan, 64 Md. 439,
453; 2,Atl. 826; Classen v. Chesapeake Guano Co., 81 Md.
258, 267; 31 Atl. 808.
The Government contends that in view of the nature
of these questions the case is not an appropriate one for
mandamus, since ordinarily mandamus against a public
officer will not lie unless the right of the petitioner and
the d-uty of the officer, performance of which is to be
commanded, are both clear. See McLennan v. Wilbur,
283 U.S. 414, 419, 420; Interstate Commerce Commission v. New York, New Haven & Hartford R. Co., 287
U.S. 178; Redfield v. Windom, 137 U.S. 636; Bayard v.
White, 127 U.S. 246. It is insisted that both the petitioners' riparian ownership and the right to build the
wharf which they claim to have derived from it, are
doubtful; and in any event that the duty of the Secretary under the statute I is not plain and certain, since
"Sec. 10. That the creation of any obstruction not affirmatively
authorized by Congress, to the navigable capacity of any of the
waters of the United States is hereby prohibited; and it shall not be
lawful to build or commence the building of any wharf, pier, dolphin,
boom, weir, lbreakwater, bulkhead, jetty, or other ptructures in any
port, roadstead, haven, harbor, canal, navigable river, or other water

UNITED STATES v. DERN.
352

359

Opinion of the Court.

the words forbidding all structures in any navigable river,
"except on plans recommended by the Chief of Engi-neers and authorized by the Secretary of War," are only
permissive, not mandatory, and there is no plain implication of a duty on the part of the Secretary to authorize
a structure in the Potomac River within the District of
Columbia to which there is substantial objection that it
infringes the rights or obstructs the public policy of the
United States as owner and sovereign of the river bed...
But we find it unnecessary, in the circumstances of
this case, to say what effect should be given to these
objections alone, whether considered each separately or
together, Although the remedy by mandamus is at law,
its allowance is controlled by equitable principles, see
Duncan Townsite Co. v. Lane, 245 U.S. 308, 311; Arant
v. Lane, 249 U.S. 367, 371; Redfield v. Windom, supra,
644; cf. Turner v. Fisher, 222 U.S. 204; Ex parte Skinner
& Eddy Corp., 265 U.S. 86, 95; People ex rel. Wood v.
Assessors, 137 N.Y. 201; 33 N.E. 145; Matter of Lindgren, 232 N.Y. 59; 133 N.E. 353; McCarthy v. Street
Comm'rs, 188 Mass. 338; 74 N.E. 659; People ex rel.
Stettauer v. Olsen, 215 Ill. 620; 74 N.E. 785, and it may
be refused for reasons comparable to those which would
lead a court of equity, in the exercise of a sound discretion, to withhold its protection of an undoubted legal
right. For such reasons we think the relief sought by
of the United States outside established harbor lines, or where no
harbor lines have been established, except on plans recommended by
the Chief of Engineers and authorized by the Secretary of War; and
it shall not be lawful to excavate or, fill, or in any manner to alter
or modify the course, location, condition, or capacity of, any port,
roadstead, haven, harbor, canal, lake, harbor of refuge, or inclosure
within the limits of any breakwater, or of the channel of any navigable water of the United States, unless the work has been recommended by the Chief of Engineers and authorized by the Secretary

of War prior to beginning the same."

360

OCTOBER TERM, .1982.
Opinion of the Court.

289 US.

mandamus should be denied here, even if petitioners'
title to the upland adjacent to the river and their right
to build the wharf were less doubtful than they are.
The government, through its duly authorized agency,
the Park Commission, has declared that both the bed
of the river and the upland adjacent to it shall be devoted to a public' purpose for the- construction of the
Parkway, and the plans of the Commission contemplate
the taking, by purchase or condemnation, of a part of
petitioners' property as a meaus of access to it. The
apparent consequence of authorizing the construction of
the wharf would be only to increase the expense to the
government of constructing the Parkway, by the cost
of destroying the wharf, and by so much of the cost of
the wharf and of the other proposed improvements as
may be included in the just compensation to be awarded
for their taking. Thus the extraordinary remedy by
mandamus, invoked to protect rights to which petitioners
are not shown to be clearly entitled, would be burdensome to the government without any substantially equivalent benefit or advantage to the petitioners or their
vendee, apart from the incidental and irrelevant consequence that petitioners might secure the performance
of their conditional contract.
The court, in its discretion, -may refuse mandamus to
compel the doing of an idle act, Turner v. Fisher, supra,
209; Wilson v. Blake, 169 Cal. 449; 147 Pac. 129; or to
give a remedy which Would work a public injury or embarrassment, (see Duncan Townsite Co. v. Lane, supra;
Arant v. Lane, supra; Effingham, Maynard& Co. v. Hamilton, 68 Miss. 523; 10 So. 39; cf. Matter of Lindgren,
supra, 66; McCarthy v. Street Comm'rs, supra) just as
in its sound discretion a court of equity may refuse to
enforce or protect legal rights, the exercise of which may
be prejudicial to the public interest. See Seaboard Air
Line Ry. Co. v. Atlanta B. & C. R. Co., 35 F. (2d) 609;

WASHINGTON v. SUPERIOR COURT.
352

Statement of the Case.

Conger v. New York, W. S. & B. R. Co., 120 N.Y. 29; 23
N.E. 983; Clarke v. Rochester, L. & N. F. R. Co., 18 Barb.
350; Whalen v. Baltimore & Ohio R. Co., 108 Md. 11; 69
Atl. 390; Curranv. Holyoke Water Power Co., 116 Mass.
90; Southern Ry. Co. v. Franklin & P. R. Co., 96 Va.
693; 32 S.E. 485; cf. Willard v. Tayloe, 8 Wall. 557.
Affirmed.

WASHINGTON Ex REL. BOND & GOODWIN &
TUCKER, INC. v. SUPERIOR COURT OF WASH:
INGTON FOR SPOKANE COUNTY ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF WASHINGTON

No. 663.

Argued April 19, 1933.-Decided May 8, 1933

1. A State may -provide, among the conditions upon which a foreign
corporation may be admitted to do local business, that if the
corporation withdraw from the State and fail to maintain a local
agency for receiving service of process, service may be made on
a designated state official. P. 364.
2. Failure to provide further for notifying the absent corporation of
such substituted service does not make the statute obnoxious to
due process, in the case of a corporation which entered the State by
complying with the statute; since by so doing it accepted the statutory- terms, and since, having withdrawn, it could have assured
itself of notice by designating a new agent or otherwise. P. 365.
3. The question whether under a state statute providing for service
-on the Secretary of State service may be made on the Assistant
Secretary of State, is not a federal question. P. 366.
4. State statutes providing that, as to domestic corporations- having
no local office, and as to foreign insurance companies, substituted
service on the Secretary of State shall be valid only if he sends
notice to the corporation so served, but making no provision for
such further notice to other foreign corporations, do not deny
to the latter the equal protection of the laws. P. 366.
169 Wash. 688; 15 P. (2d) 660, affirmed.

from a judgment refusing a writ of prohibition to prevent further prosecution of an action begun
by substituted service.
APPEAL

