BEVAN v. KRIEGER.
444

Syllabus.

supra, is pertinent. ie said (p. 4): "The inherent difficulty in all these cases is not in the liability and suability
of the successor in a new suit. It is in the shifting from
the personal liability of the first officer for threatened
wrong or abWise of his office to the personal liability of his
successor when there is no pivity between them, as there
is not if the officer sued is injuring or is threatening to injure the comp~ainant, without lawful official authority.
There is no legal relation between the wrong committed
or about to be committed by the one,. and that by the
other."
It follows from what has been said that § 780 has no application to the case as presented and that the district
court had no jurisdiction to subistitute petitioner as a
party defendant, in place of his predecessor or to direct
that the suits be continued and maintained against him.
We have no occasion to decide whether or in what circumstances a successor in office who adopts the attitude of his
predecessor and is proceeding or threatening to proceed
to enforce the statute may be substituted in a pending
suit. That question is not here and is reserved.
Petitioner's application for leave to file is granted, the
case will be docketed and respondents' return filed, and
a writ of mandamus will issue commanding the respondents to vacate the decrees against petitioner and to dismiss
the suits as to him.
It is so ordered.
BEVAN v. KRIEGER, SHERIFF.*
APPEALS FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF OHIO.

No. 784.

Argued May 8, 9, 1933.-Decided May 22, 1933.

1. Witnesses subpoenaed by a notary public to give depositions, pursuant to § 11529 of the General Code of Ohio, failed to attend; and
* Together with No. 785, Koehrman v. Krieger, Sheriff, and No. 786,

Stranahanv. Krieger, Sheriff.

460

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Statement of the Case.

289 URS.

when attachments were issued by the notary under § 11511, commanding that they be brought before him t give their testimony
or to aifswer for contempt, they Iurrendered themselves to the
sheriff, who held the process. They then immediately applied to
the state court of appeals for writs of habeas corpus, with the result that, after hearings, they were remanded by that court to the
custody of the sheriff, and the judgments were affirmed by. the
Supreme Court of the State, from which they appeaied here. Held
that-by their conduct they were precluded from asserting that they
were denied a hearing by the notary. P. 463.
2. In Ohio, as generally elsewhere, testimony by deposition is taken
subject to the right of the parties-not of the witness-to object to
its admissibility at the trial. P. 463.
3. A witness in a deposition proceeding (Gen. Code of Ohio, § 11529,)
who flatly refusesto answer any further questions is guilty of a
patent contempt; and his commitment by the presiding notary
(id., § 11512) with6ut further hearing is conpistent with due process
of law. P. 464.
S6 held irrespective of whether the notary would have been em* powered, by the state law, to pass upon objections, if raised by
the witness on the ground of privilege; and without eonsiderint
whether if he lacked that power the hearing in court afforded by
§ 11514 of the Code, to review commitment by the notary, would
satify due process.
4. Commitment of a witness, subject to review by the state courts,
because of his refusal to give a deposition before the committing
officer, is not lacking in due process because the officer's statutory
fees and his charge for extra copies are measured by the folios of
testimony taken. Tumey v. Ohio, 273 US. 510, distinguished.
P. 465.
126 Oh. St. 126; 184 NZ. 343, affirmed in No. 784.
In Nos. 785 and 786, appeals dismissed for want of a federal question.

APPEALS from judgments affirming judgments of the

Court of Appeals of Ohio in habeas corpus proceedings,
whereby the petitioners, Bevan et al., were remanded to
the custody of the sheriff. The opinion of the Court of
Appeals is reported in 12 Oh. Law Abstract 59&. A collateral remedy was sought by habeas corpus in a federal
court, as to which this Court refused a writ of certiorari,
287 U.S. 665.

BEVAN v. KRIEGER.
459

Opinion*of the Court.

Messrs. Crary Davis and George D. Welles for appellants.
Mr. Raymond T. Jackson, with whom Messrs. Newton
D. Baker, Harold W. Fraser,and John C. Morley were on
the brief, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The three judgments from which these separate appeals
are prosecuted have a common origin, are founded upon
the same Code provisions, in the main present related
questions, and may be reviewed in a single opinion.
Suit was instituted in an Ohio court by Clara SielckenSchwarz, as widow and sole legatee of Hermann Sielcken,
against the Woolson Company (of which the appellant
Bevan is secretary and treasurer), Koehrman, Stranahan,
and others, to obtain redress for. an alleged fraudulent
scheme whereby her deceased husband's executor, The Columbia Trust Company, was induced to part with certain
capital stock of that corpbration. The plaintiff, desiring
to take the depositions of the three appellants, proceeded
as provided by the General Code of Ohio.' Subpoenas
duces tecum were served upon Bevan and Koehrman, and
a subpoena ad testificandum on Stranahan. A notary public was named to take the testimony, and at the time and
place appointed Bevan appeared before him, was sworn,
I Either party may commence taking testimony by deposition at
any time after service of process (§ 11526), before a judge or clerk
of a court, a justice of the peace, a notary public, and certain other
designated persons (§ 11529). Notice of intention to take depositions
must be given (§§ 11534-11535). The officer authorized to take
the depositions may issue subpoenas, including subpoenas duce8
tecum, and provision is made for service upon the witness (§§ 115023-4). A party, or' if the party be a corporation, any officer thereof,
may be examined as if under cross examination (§ 11497).

462

.OCTOBER TERM,. 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

answered some questions, decinedto hnswer others, and
finally declared that he would answer no more. In each
instance he was enjoined by the notary to answer, and in
each case stated that he refused on the advice of counsel.
He also failed to produce papers and documents called for
in his subpoena, although he admitted fhat-he had them in
his possession or under his control, and in this' matter also
gave as his excuse advice of counsel. He did not claim
personal privilege or possibility of self-incrimination, but
he and his counsel contented themselves with the state,
ment that the questions and the-writings were immaterial
and irrelevant to any issue in the suit. Koehrman and
Stranahan failed to appear in response to the subpoenas
served upon them. The notary, upon the plaintiff's request, issued a commitment of Bevan for contempt, and
attachments for the other two appellants. Thest writs
were delivered to the sheriff for service. , All three appellants surrendered to that official, and applied to the Court
of Appeals of Lucas County for writs of habeas corpus.
After hearings, that court remanded each to the custody
of the sheriff. The Supreme Court affirmed the
judgments.
In the courts below, and here, the appellants have insisted that the statutes of Ohio authorizing their arrest
Sand detention deprive them of due process. The sections
f the General Code drawn in question are 11510, whereby .disobedience of a subpoena and refusal to be sworn, or
an unlawful refusal to answer as a witness, may be punished as a contempt of the officer by whom the attendance
or testimony of the witness is required; 11511, which
authorizes the notary to issue an attachment to arrest and
bring before him the person subpoenaed to give his testimony or answer for'his contempt; and § 11512 which fixes
the penalty for contempt:
"When the witness fails to attend in obedience to a
subpoena, the court or officer may -fine him not over fifty

BEVAN v. KRIEGER.
459

Opinion of the Court.

dollars; in other cases, not more than fifty dollars nor less

than five dollars; or he may imprison him in the county
jail, there to remain until he submits to be sworn, testifies,
or gives his deposition."
By § 11514 it is provided that a witness so imprisoned
by an officer may apply to a judge of the supreme court,
court of appeals, common pleas or probate court, who may
discharge him if it appears that his imprisonment is
illegal.
The appellants' position is that since the statute requires the witness to answer only lawful questions, and
the notary, not being a judicial officer, is not permitted to
pass upon the lawfulness of a question, but is bound to
commit for refusal to answer, the commitment without a
prior judicial hearing, and provision for such a hearing
only after commitment (§ 11514), is a denial of due
process.
Koehrman and Stranahan fail to present a federal question. Both of them, without excuse, absented themselves
from the taking of the depositions. The writs of attachment issued to bring them before the notary for contempt'
were not served. While the sheriff held the process these
appellants sought him out, surrendered to him, and immediately applied for writs of habeas corpus. Their conduct precludes the assertion that they were denied a hearing by the notary. They asked for none, and by their
action rendered one impossible.
Bevan's case differs but slightly from those of Koehrman and Stranahan. He refused to answer questions or
to produce the writings enumerated in his subpoena. The
notary thereupon, after adjourning the hearing until the
following day, issued the commitment. Bevan surrendered himself to the sheriff, and by habeas corpus challenged the legality of his detention.
In Ohio, as generally elsewhere, the officer taking a
deposition does not rule upon the competency or materi-

464

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

ality of the evidence to the issues made by the pleadings.
The witness's testimony is taken subject to the reserved
right to object to its admissibility at the trial. The right
of objection and exclusion belongs to the parties, not to the
witness. So far as disclosed, the refusal to answer and
produce documents was based solely on the theory that the
petition in the suit did not state a cause of action and that
the depositions constituted a fishing expedition for evidence. But the appellant now insists that aside from
their irrelevancy, which was the ground of' refusal to
answer, the questions propounded may have been improper as trenching upon the personal privilege of the
witness, although he indicates no aspect in which this
might be true. He says that it would have been useless
for him to raise the issue before the notary because under
the decisions of the Ohio courts the latter is not a judicial
officer invested with power to pass upon such an issue;
that therefore a witness must take the risk that he ig
correct in his refusal to answer, and may, vindicate his
action only before a court after commitment, in accordance
with § 11514.
In Ohio a notary has been held not to be a judicial
officer within the meaning 'of the state constitution; but
we think 'that he may nevertheless be authorized to pass
upon the witness's privilege. We find no decision of the
Supreme Court of Ohio holding the notary incompetent to
consider and to pass.in the first instance upon the propriety of a witness's refusal to answer. No such lack of
power appears upon the face of the statutes. The appellant admits this, but asserts that the Code provision has
been construed by the courts to prohibit the notary from
passing on the witness's reasons for refusal to testify. We
are not convinced that the state courts have so interpreted
the statute.

BEVAN v. KRIEGER.
459

465

Opinion of the Court.

But we deem it unnecessary to pursue the inquiry, or to
express any view as to the adequacy of the hearing afforded
aftel- commitment by § 11514,'for the reason that the
alleged deprivation of appellant's liberty was consequent
upon his sweeping statement that he would answer no
further questions. Such conduct by a witness in any
court would be sufficient ground for his commitment without further or other hearing. Such an attitude indicates,
'no desire for a hearing upon the propriety of the questions,
but on its face constitutes a contempt. Bevan requested
no consideration of his rights by the notary, and was denied no hearing by that officer upon the issue whether the
questions infringed his personal privileges as a'witness.
His claim that he was denied du process is therefore without foundation.
The appellant Bevan also advances the contention that
the notary had such a pecuniary interest in compelling thetestimony as would disqualify him, and deprive his rulings
of the impartiality required for due process. Notaries are
entitled to fees of twenty-five cents per hundred words for
taking and certifying depositions (General Code, §§ 127,
1746-2). These are paid in the first instance by the party
taking'the depositions, and aie taxable as costs in the suit.
It appears from the record that it is also customary for
the notary if, as in this case, he happens to be a stenographer, to take the testimony stenographically and to
furnish additional copies to the 'parties at a charge somewhat less per hundred words than is provided in the statute. These facts are said to bring the case within the
principle announced in Tumey v. Ohio, 273 U.S. 510.
But 'we think the suggested analogy does not exist.
Tumey, as mayor of a city, sat as a magistrate. His judgIlents were final as to certain offenses, unless wholly unsupported by evidence. The law'awarded him a substan-

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Syllabus.

289 U.S.

tial fee if he found an offender guilty, and none in case of
acquittal. Tumey's interest was direct ind obvious; but
the possibility that the extent of the notary's services and
the amount of his compensation may be affected by his
ruling is too remote and incidental to vitiate his official
action. Moreover, his action lacks the finality which attached to the judgment in the Tumey case, as it is subject
to review in accordance with § 11514.
No. 784, judgment affirmed.
Nos. 785 and 786, appeals dismissed.

QUERCIA v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIRST CIRCUIT.

No. 701.

Argued May 9, 1933.-Decided May 29, 1933.

1. The right of a trial judge in a federal court to comment upon the
evidence and express his opinion of it while making clear to the jury
that they are not bound by his opinion and that all matters of
fact are'submitted to their determination,-is an essential commonlaw prerogative maintained by the Constitution. P. 469.
2. This privilege, however, does not permit the judge to distort or
add to the evidence; and, because of his great influence on the jury,
he must use great care to be fair and not mislead, and must
studiously avoid deductions and theories not warranted by evidence.
P. 470.
3. It is important that hostile comment of the judge in a criminal
case should not render vain the privilege of the accused to testify
in his own behalf. P. 470.
4. The court charged the jury:
"And now I am going to tell you what I think of the defendant's
testimony. You may have noticed, Mr. Foreman and gentlemen,
that he wiped his hands during his testimony. It, is a rather curious
thing, but that is almost always an indication of lying. Why it
should be so we don't know, but that is the fact. I think that
every single word that man said, except when he agreed with the
Government's testimony, was a lie."

