WILLIAMS v. UNITED STATES.
516

Syllabus.

trative sort. It is only because the Congress, in establishing the courts of the District of Columbia, is free
from the limitations imposed by § 1 of Article III that
administrative powers can be, and are, conferred upon
them. Keller v. Potomac Electric Co., 261 U.S. 428, 442,
443; Postum Cereal Co. v. California Fig Nut Co., 272
U.S. 693, 700; Ex parte Bakelite Corp., 279 U.S. 438, 450.
With the question of policy, this court is not concerned, save as policy is determined by the Constitution.
The question is one of constitut'nal interpretation which
has hitherto been deemed to be settled.
WILLIAMS v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 728.

Argued April 12,' 1933.-Decided May 29, 1933.

1. The judicial power of the Court of Claims is not vested in virtue
of Art. III of the Constitution, so as to bring its judges within
the protection of that Article as to tenure of office and compensation. Ex parte Bakelite Corp., 279 U.S. 438. Expressions in
United States v. Klein, 13 Wall. 128, and other cases criticized.
Pp. 567, 568, 581.
2. The Court of Claims, originally an administrative or advisory
body, is, under the existing laws, a court exercising judicial power
and-capable of rendering final judgments reviewable by this Court.
P. 564.
3. Judicial power, apart from that defined by Art. III of the Constitution, may be conferred by Congress upon legislative courts as well
as upon constitutional courts; which is exemplified in the instances
of territorial courts, and also of state courts when sitting in naturalization. proceedings. P. 565.
4. The judicial power of Art. III does not attach to the Court of
Claims in virtue of the consent of the United States to be sued
therein coupled with the clause of that Article extending the
judicial power of the United States to "controversies to which
the United States shall be a party." Expressions in Minnesota v.
Hitchcock, 185 U.S. 373, and Kansas v. United States, 204 U.S.
331, disapproved. Pp. 571, 577.

554

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Syllabus.

289 U.S.

5. Article III, § 2, ci. 1 of the Constitution declares that the judicial
power of the United States shall extend to "all" of some of the
classes of cases named therein, but omits the word "all" in naming
other classes, including "controversies to which the United States
shall be a party." The omission was not accidental, but expresses,
ex industria, a limitation of meaning. P. 572.
6. In expounding the Constitution, every word must have its due
force and appropriate meaning and no word is to be regarded as
unnecessarily used or needlessly added. P. 573.
7. In the light of the rule of sovereign immunity from suit, which
was well settled and understood when the Constitution was framed,
the proposition that Art. III intended to include suits against the
United States is inadmissible. Chisholm v. Georgia, 2 Dall. 419,
and Hans v. Louisiana, 134 U.S. 1, involving suits against States,
discussed. P. 573.
8. That clause must be construed in accord with the construction put
upon it by the first Judiciary Act, as though it read "controversies
to which the United States shall be a party plaintiff or petitioner."
Pp. 573, 577.
9. Controversies to which the United States may by statute be made
a party defendant, at least as a general rule, lie wholly outside the
scope of the judicial power vested by Art. III in the constitutional
courts. P. 577.
10. Where a controversy is of such a character as to require the
exercise of the'judicial power defined by Art. III, jurisdiction
thereof can be conferred only on courts established in virtue of
that Article, and Congress is without power to vest that judicial
power in any other judicial tribunal, or, of course, in an executive
officer, or administrative or executive board, since "they are
incapable of receiving it." American Ins. Co. v. Canter, 1 Pet. 511.
P. 578.
11. Since all matters made cognizable by the Court of Claims are
equally susceptible of legislative or executive determination, they
are matters in respect of which there is no constitutional right to
a judicial remedy; and the authority to inquire into and decide
them may constitutionally be conferred on a nonjudicial officer or
body. P. 579.
12. A power which may be devolved, at the will of Congress, upon
any of the three departments, plainly is not within the doctrine
of the separation and independent exercise of governmental powers
contemplated by the tripartite distribution of such powers.
P. 580.

WILLIAMS v. UNITED STATES.
553

Argument for Plaintiff.

13. The jurisdiction of the Court of Claims to award compensation
for property taken by power of eminent domain, and its jurisdiction
to adjudicate set-offs, etc., claimed by the United States, are consistent with its status as a legislative court. P. 581.
14. Obiter dicta may be respected, but ought not to control the
judgment in a subsequent suit when the very point is presented
for decision. P. 568.

RESPONSE to questions certified by the Court of Claims,
arising in a suit brought in that court by one of its Judges,
against the United States, for the purpose of testing the
constitutionality of a reduction of his official salary. Cf.
the preceding report of O'Donoghue v. United States,
ante, p. 516. This case was argued with that one.
Mr. George A. King, with whom Messrs. George R.
Shields and Herman J. Galloway were on the brief, for
plaintiff.
The legislative history of the Court of Claims shows
that from 1863 onward it has been invested with power
to render judgments against the United States, as a tribunal acting strictly under the constitutional judicial
power. Discussing: Gordon v. United States, 117 U.S.
697; United States v. Jones, 119 U.S. 477, 478, 479.
The constitutional status of the Court of Claims was
early recognized in- United States v. Klein, 13 Wall. 128,
144-146. Cf. Witkowski v. United States, 7 Ct. Cls. 393.
There has been a continuous growth in classes of cases
of which the Court of Claims has cognizance. It was the
first court established to hear and determine and render
final judgments in cases against the United States. For
more than 65 years it has been deciding such cases and
has disposed of more than 50,000 of them. The appeals
to the Supreme Court from its judgments exceed 1,000 in
number.

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Argument for Plaintiff.

289 US.

Claims for the value of property taken by the Government are claims founded upon the Constitution.
United States v. Great Falls Mfg. Co., 112 U.S. 645;
Monongahela Navigation Co. v. United States, 148 U.S.
312; SeaboardAir Line Ry. Co. v. United States, 261 U.S.
299; Brooks-Scanlon Corp. v. United States, 265 U.S.
106; Liggett & Myers v. United States, 274 U.S. 215;
Phelps v. United States, 274 U.S. 341.
In this line of cases, the rule of just compensation was
strictly enforced, the party was held entitled to compensation as of the time of the taking, and an allowance in the
form of interest for delay,-notwithstanding the statute
against allowing interest on claims against the United
States.
Of course, the District Courts as "constitutional
courts" were in cases of taking private property exercising the judicial power of the United States vested in
them in accordance with Art. III of the Constitution, andcould not have heard cases against the United States
except under and in conformity with permissive legislation by Congress. The jurisdiction of the District
Courts and the Court of Claims under the Tucker Act
must be the same kind of jurisdiction. See ,United
States v. Jones, 131 U.S. 1.
It would be anomalous to say that a court exercising jurisdiction not limited as to amount is not a constitutional court, while those having concurrent jurisdiction
given to them up to a limited amount are courts of superior status. Cf. United States v. Lynah, 188 U.S. 445-;
United States v. Williams, 188 U.S. 485; Heyward V*.
United States, 52 Ct. Cls. 87.
It would seem to be a reductio ad absurdum to say that
where suit is brought in the Court of Claims and may
be for any amount without limit in either direction, the

WILLIAMS v. UNITED STATES.
553

Argument for Plaintiff.

judgment is not in the constitutional sense an adjudication of a controversy arising under the Constitution and'
laws of the United States, "to which the United States
is a party," while if brought in another court the limit
of whose jurisdiction has been carefully fixed by Congress
at not exceeding $10,000, the judgment is of higher standing and is that of a constitutional court. The mode of
enforcing the. judgment is the same in either case, and the
judgment itself as' much the act of a strictly judicial
tribunal in one case as in the other.
The advisory jurisdiction of the Court of Claims is
distinct from its general jurisdiction to render judgmenis
Sections of the Tucker Act involving advisory opinions
in no way conflict with the constitutional nature of the
court and of its judgments under the first eleven sections
of the Act. In re Sanborn, 148 U.S. 222; Sanborn v.
United States, 27 Ct. Cls. 484, 490.
The inability of the court to issue execution on the property of the United States is consistent with its status as a
"constitutional court." Gordon v. United States, 117 U.S.
697, distinguished. Fidelity National Bank v. Swope, 274
U.S. 123; La Abra Silver Mining Co. v. United States, 175
U.S. 423.
The power of the court to render judgments on set-offs
in favor of the United States against claimants is a strictly
constitutional power. McElrath v. United States, 102 U.S
426. This jurisdiction, enforceable by execution anywhere
in the country, should alone settle the status of the court
as a constitutional tribunal.
Use of physical force to carry out the judgment is in no
case essential to its finality. Virginia v. West Virginia,
206 U.S. 290; 209 U.S. 514; 220 U.S; 1; 222 U.S. 17; 231
U.S. 89; 234 U.S. 117; 238 U.S. 202; 241 U.S. 531; 246
U.S. 565.

558

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Argument for Plaintiff.

289 US.

The fact that other duties not in strictness judicial are
placed upon the Court of Claims does not impair its constitutional status.
This Court has held the Court of Claims to be a constitutional court. Discussing: Gordon v. United States, 117
U.S. 697; 7 Ct. Cls. 1; United States v. Jones, 119 U.S.
477, 478; Gordon v. United States, 7 Wall. 188; United
States v. Louisiana, 123 U.S. 32; Hurley v. Kincaid,,285
U.S. 95.
Other cases in which the constitutional character of the
Court of Claims as a court invested with jurisdiction of
"controversies to which the United States shall be a
party" has been either assumed or directly decided, are:
United States v. Anderson, 9 Wall. 56; United States v.
O'Grady, 22 Wall. 641, 647, 648; United States v. Moser,
266 U.S. 236; United States v. Borcherling, 185 U.S. 223;
Minnesota v. Hitchcock, 185 U.S. 373; Miles v. Graham,
268 U.S. 501; United States v. Union Pacific R. Co., 98
U.S. 569; UnitedStates v. Union PacificR. Co., 91 U.S. 72.
In statutes passed during the World War providing for
suits for compensation against the United States there
is no suggestion of any difference in effect between the
jurisdiction of the Court of Claims and that of the District Courts exercising concurrent or exclusive jurisdiction.
The Court of Claims is thus the recipient of a large
share of the judicial power of the United States under
Art. III, § 2 of the Constitution.
1. All cases coming before it arise under the Constitution and laws of the United States. They also come
within the grant with respect to "controversies to which
the United States shall be a party." It has been repeatedly said by high authority beginning with Story's
Commentaries in 1833, that this clause includes cases in
which the United States is defendant.
2. This view has been repeatedly sanctioned by this
Court, not only in the case of United States v. Union

WILLIAMS v. UNITED STATES.
553

Opinion of the Court.

Paific R. Co., 98 U.S. 569 (the applicability of which
has been questioned on the ground that the remarks
made were not essential to a decision of the case), but in
such cases as United States v. Louisiana,123 U.S. 32, and
others above cited.
3. The District Courts, constitutional courts, exercise
concurrent jurisdiction with the Court of Claims in a
large class of cases against the United States, generally of
inferior magnitude and importance. This can not be explained except on the theory that the constitutional
status of the Court of Claims is at least equal to that of
a District Court.
4. The case of Miles v. Graham, 268 U.S. 501, is a
direct authority in point.
5. The policy of the Constitution respecting judges'
salaries applies quite as much to judges deciding between the Government and its citizens as to judges
acting largely in cases between citizens.
Solicitor General Thacher, with whom Messrs. Win. W.
Scott, Robert P. Reeder, Erwin N. Griswold, and H. Brian
Hollandwere on the brief, for the United States. A summary of the Government's position is given in the report
of the case next preceding.
MP. JusTice SU
Court.

ERLAND delivered the opinion of the

Plaintiff is, and since November 11, 1929, has been,
a judge of the Court of Claims of the United States.
Since his entry upon the duties of his office, and until
June 30, 1932, he received a salary at the rate of $12,500
per annum, as fixed by the Act of December 13, 1926, c. 6,
§ 1, 44 Stat. 919. Since that date he has been paid at the
rate of $10,000 per annum under a ruling of the Comptroller General of the United. States. Compare O'Donoghue v. United States, decided this day, ante, p. 516.

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

The Legislative Appropriation Act of June 30, 1932
(c. 314, 47 Stat. 382, 402) in part provides:
"Sec. 107. (a) During the fiscal year ending June 30,
1933"(5) the salaries and retired pay of all judges (except
judges whose compensation may not, under the Constitution, be diminished during their continuance in office),
if such salaries or retired pay are at a rate exceeding
$10,000 per annum, shall be at the rate of $10,000 per
annum."
The Comptroller General, as the basis for his ruling,
took the view that the Court of Claims is a "legislative"
court, and not a " constitutional" court created under
Art. III, § 1, of the Constitution, which provides:
"The judicial power of the United States shall be
vested in one Supreme Court, and in such inferior Courts
as the Congress may from time to time ordain and establish. The Judges, both of the Supreme and inferior
Courts, shall hold their offices during good behavior, and
shall, at stated times, receive for their services, a compensation, which shall not be diminished during their con-:
tinuance in office."
On February 8, 1933, this suit was brought in the Court
of Claims to recover the amount of the difference between
the statutory rate of $12,500, and the smaller amount
paid under the ruling of the Comptroller General. The
suit was brought by plaintiff in the court of which he is a
member, because, as it is averred,, no other court or
remedy was open to him. Plaintiff's petition rests upon
the contention that the Court of Claims is a constitutional court, created in virtue of the power of Congress
to constitute tribunals inferior to the Supreme Court,
whose judges "shall hold their offices during good behavior, and shall; at stated times, receive for their
services, a compensation, which shall not be diminished

WILLIAMS v. UNITED STATES.
553

Opinion of the Court.

during their continuance in office." The government demurred to the petition, upon the ground that the judges
of the Court of Claims are not judges of an "inferior
court" within the meaning of that constitutional provision. The Court of Claims, without passing upon the
demurrer, certified to this court the following questions,
upon which it desires instructions, under § 3 (a) of the
Act of February 13, 1925, c. 229, 43 Stat. 936, 939:
"I. Does Section 1, Article III, of the Constitution of
the United States apply to the Court of Claims and
forbid a reduction of the compensation of the Judges
,thereof during their continuance in office?
"II. Does the provision of Section 2, Article III, Of the
Constitution, wherein it is stated that 'The Judicial
Power'shall extend . . . to controversies to which the
United States shall be a party,' apply to the Court of
Claims, and does this provision authorize the creation
and establishment of that Court?
"III. Can the compensation of a Judge of the Court
of Claims be lawfully diminished during his continuance
in office?"
In the O'Donoghue case, supra, we have discussed in
some detail the purposes which led the framers of the
Constitution to incorporate in that instrument the provisions in respect of the permanent tenure of office and
the undiminishable character of the compensation of the
judges; and have pointed out that the judges of the
Supreme Court and Court of Appeals of the District of
Columbia plainly come within the spirit and reason of the
compensation provision, and must be held to fall within
its intent, unless that conclusion is precluded by other
considerations. Much of what is there said may also be
said in respect of the Court of Claims. It is a court of
great importance, dealing with claims against the United
States, which, in the aggregate, amount to a vast sum
every year. The questions which it considers call for

562

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

the exercise of a high order of intelligence, learning and
ability. The preservation of its independence is a matter
of public concern. The sole function of the court being
to decide between the government and private suitors, a
condition, on the part of the judges, of entire dependence
upon the legislative pleasure for the tenure of their offices
and for a continuance of adequate compensation during
their service in office, to say the least, is not desirable.
But these considerations, though obvious enough, are
not sufficient, standing alone, to support a conclusion that
the Court of Claims comes within the reach of the judicial
article in respect of tenure of office and compensation.
The integrity of such a conclusion must rest not upon
its desirability, but upon its conformity with the provisions of the Constitution.
For reasons which are set out in the O'Donoghue opinion, the courts of the territories are legislative courts,
while the superior courts of the District of Columbia are
constitutional courts. The Court of Claims differs so essentially from both, that its status, in respect of the question under consideration, must be determined from an
entirely different point of view.
That court was first established by the Act of February
24, 1855, c. 122, 10 Stat. 612, entitled, "An Act to establish
a Court for the Investigation of Claims against the United
States." It was to consist of three judges, to hold their
offices during good behavior. The act provided that the
court should hear and determine certain claims against the
government of the United States, and also all claims which
might be referred to the court by either House of Congress. The court was to keep a record of its proceedingin each case and make a report to Congress for the action
of that body. By the Act of March 3, 1863, c. 92, 12 Stat.
765, the court was for the first time authorized to render
final judgments, from which an appeal was allowed in certain cases. Section 14 of that act provided:

WILLIAMS v. UNITED STATES.
553

Opinion of the Court.

"That no money shall be paid out of the treasury for
any claim passed upon by the court of claims till after.
an appropriation therefor shall be estimated for by the
Secretary of the Treasury."
Because of that provision, it was held in Gordon v.
United States, 2 Wall. 561, that under the Constitution
no appellate jurisdiction could be exercised by this court.
The reasons for that conclusion are stated in an undelivered opinion written by Chief Justice Taney and, with
approval, published for the first time in 117 U. S. 698.
It was there stated that in view of § 14 the power
of the Court of Claims and of this court was merely to
certify their opinion to the Secretary of the Treasury;
and whether the claim was paid in accordance with the
opinion depended not on the decision of either court, but
upon the future action of the Secretary and of Congress.
So far as the Court of Claims is concerned, it was said,
there is no objection to these provisions, since Congress
undoubtedly may establish tribunals to examine testimony and decide in the first instance upon the validity
and justice of any claim against the United States, subject to the supervision and control of Congress or the
head of an executive department. Such authority was
likened to that of an auditor or comptroller, and the circumstance that the tribunal was called a court and its
decisions called judgments could not alter its character
or enlarge its power. But in respect of this court different principles were said to apply, since this court is
created by the Constitution and represents one of the
three great divisions of power in the government, "to
each of which the Constitution has assigned its appropriate duties and powers, and made each independent of
the other in performing its appropriate functions. The
power conferred on this court is exclusively judicial, and
it cannot be required or authorized to exercise any other."
The conclusion, therefore, was that Congress could neither

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

confer nor impose on this court the authority or duty
of hearing or determining an appeal from such a tribunal, nor authorize or require this court to express an
opinion on a case where its judicial power could not be
exercised and where its judgment would not be final and
conclusive upon the rights of the parties.
These observations, without adverting to others which
have been disavowed, have since met with the uniform
approval of this court.
The decision of the Gordon case in the 2d of Wallace
was announced on March 10, 1865. At the next session
of Congress § 14 was repealed. Ch. 19, 14 Stat. 9. Since
that time it never has been doubted that Congress may
authorize an appeal to this court from a final judgment
or decree of the Court of Claims, United States v. Jones,
119 U.S. 477, 478-479; In re Sanborn, 148 U.S. 222, 225;
Luckenbach S.S. Co. v. United States, 272 U.S. 533, 536
et seq., or that the judgment of this court rendered on
such appeal constitutes a final determination of the
matter. United States v. O'Grady, 22. Wall. 641, 647.
It is equally certain that the judgments of the Court of
Claims, where no appeal is taken, under existing laws are
absolutely final and conclusive of the rights of the parties
unless a new trial be granted by that court as provided
by law. Id. Indeed, as appears from the cases already
cited and others, such finality and conclusiveness must be
assumed as a necessary prerequisite to the exercise of
appelate jurisdiction by this court.
In -1887 Congress gathered together the preceding acts
in respect of suits against the government in what is
called the Tucker Act. Ch. 359, 24 Stat. 505. By that
act the Court of Claims was given jurisdiction to hear
and determine, among other matters, all claims upon any
contract, express or implied, with the government of the
United States, or for damages, liquidated or unliquidated,
in cases not sounding in tort, "in respect of which claims

WILLIAMS v. UNITED STATES.
553

565

Opinion of the Court.

the party would be entitled to redress against the United
States either in a court of law, equity, or admiralty if the
United States were suable." By § 2 of the act, as amended
and supplemented by § 24 (20) of the Judicial Code, concurrent jurisdiction was conferred upon the federal district
courts in all matters as to which the Court of Claims had
jurisdiction, where the amount involved did not exceed
$10,000. U.S. Code, Title 28, § 41 (20).
By these provisions it is made plain that the Court of
Claims, originally nothing more than an administrative
or advisory body, was converted into a court, in fact as
well as in name, and given jurisdiction over controversies
which were susceptible of judicial cognizance. It is only
in that view that the appellate jurisdiction of this court in
respect of the judgments of that court could be sustained,
or concurrent jurisdiction appropriately be conferred upon
the federal district courts. The Court of Claims, therefore, undoubtedly, in entertaining and deciding these controversies, exercises judicial power, but the question still
remains-and is the vital question-whether it is the
judicial power defined by Art. III of the Constitution.
That judicial power apart from that article may be conferred by Congress upon legislative courts, as well as upon
constitutional courts, is plainly apparent from the opinion
of Chief Justice Marshall in American Insurance Co. v.
Canter, 1 Pet. 511, 546, dealing with the territorial courts.
"The jurisdiction," he said, "with which they are invested, is not a part of that judicial power which is defined
in the 3d article of the Constitution, but is conferred by
Congress, in the execution of those general powers which
that body possesses over the territories of the United
States." That is to say (1) that the courts of the territories (and, of course, other legislative courts) are invested
with judicial power, but (2) that this power is not conferred by the third article of the Constitution, but by
Congress in the execution of other provisions of that

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

instrument. The validity of this view is borne out by the
fact that the appellate jurisdiction of this court over
judgments and decrees of the legislative courts has been
upheld and freely exercised under acts of Congress from a
very early period, a practice which can be sustained, as
already suggested, only upon the theory that the legislative courts possess and exercise judicial power-as distinguished from legislative, executive, or administrative
power-although not conferred in virtue of the third
article of the Constitution.
The authority to naturalize aliens has been vested in
the courts from the beginning of the government; and
it cannot be doubted that in discharging this function
the courts exercise judicial power. But the courts of the
states, with the acquiescence of all the departments of
the federal government, have also exercised the same
jurisdiction during this long period of time, and their authority to do so must be regarded as conclusively established. Levin v. United States' 128 Fed. 826, 828-831.
In that case, Judge Sanborn, in a very carefully drawn
opinion, pointed out that Congress cannot vest any portion of the judicial power granted by § 1 and defined by
§ 2 of the third article of the Constitution in courts not
ordained and established by itself; * that the judicial
power there granted and defined necessarily extended
only to the trial of the classes of cases named in § 2;
but that these sections neither expressly nor impliedly
prohibited Congress from conferring judicial power upon
other courts. "Thus," he says, "the authority granted
* The lack of authority in Congress to devolve any part of the
judicial power defined by Art. III upon courts other than those created
by itself must not be confused with its authority to vest jurisdiction
in respect of some cases in courts whose judicial power is otherwise
derived. Compare Robertson v. Baldiuin, 165 U.S. 275, 278-280;
Claflin v. Houseman, 93 U.S. 130, 136, et seq.; Second Employers'
Liabiity Cases, 223 U.S. 1, 55, et seq.

WILLIAMS v. UNITED STATES.
553

Opinion of the Court.

to territorial courts to hear and determine controversies
arising in the territories of the United States is judicial
power. But it is not a part of that judicial power granted
by section 1, and defined by section 2, of article 3 of the
Constitution. Nevertheless, under the constitutional
grant to Congress of power to' make all needful rules and
regulations respecting the territory . . . belonging to
the United States' (article 4, § 3), that body may create
territorial courts not contemplated or authorized by article 3 of the Constitution, and may confer upon them
plenary judicial power, because the establishment of such
courts and the bestowal of such authority constitute appropriate means by which to exercise the congressional
power to make needful rules respecting the territory belonging to the United States
.
The grant by the
Congress of the United States of the judicial power to
admit aliens to citizenship, and to hear and decide the
various questions which do not arise in the cases specified
in article 3 of the Constitution, but which a proper exercise of the powers granted by that instrument to the
executive or to the legislative department of the Government requires to be judicially decided, was neither expressly nor impliedly prohibited by that article. The
congressional power to make such a grant, and to vest
judicial authority in state courts and officers, in suchcases, exists by virtue of the established rule that the
grant of a power to accomplish an object is a grant of
the authority to select and use the appropriate means
to attain it."
If the power exercised by legislative courts is not
judicial power, what is it? Certainly it is not legislative,
or executive, or administrative power, or any imaginable
combination tlereof.
With the foregoing principles in mind we come, then, to
a consideration of the crucial question here involved-Is the judicial power exercised by the Court of Claims

568

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

vested in virtue of the third article of the Constitution so
as to bring its judges within the protection of that
article as to tenure of office and compensation?
It must be conceded at the threshold that this court in
several cases has expressed, more or less irrelevantly, its
opinion in the affirmative. Thus, in United States v.
Klein, 13 Wall. 128, 145, after reference to the legislation
with respect to th6 Court of Claims, the view is expressed
that such court wav' thus constituted one of those inferior
courts which Congress authorizes. In United States v.
Union Pacific R. Co., 98 U.S. 569, 603, it was said that
under the authority of Art. III Congress had created the
district courts, the circuit courts, and the Court of Claims,
and vested each of them with a defined portion of the
judicial power found in the Constitution. In Minnesota
v. Hitchcock, 185 U.S. 373, 386, the court, after directing
attention to the fact that the United States could not be
sued without its consent, said that .with its consent it
might be sued, in which event the judicial power of the
United States extended to such a controversy, and added,
"Indeed, the whole jurisdiction of the Court of- Claims
rests upon this proposition." See also Kansas v. United
States, 204 U.S. 331, 342; United States v. Louis a, 123
U.S. 32, 35.
None of these cases involvedthe question now under
consideration, and the expressions referred to were clearly
obiter dicta, which, as said by Chief Justice Marshall in
Cohens v. Virginia, 6 Wheat. 264, 399, "may be respected
but ought not to control the judgment in' a subsequent
suit when the very, point is presented for decision."
On the other hand, this court, in Ex parte Bakelite
Corp., 279 U.S. 438, in a fully considered opinion holding
that the Court of Customs Appeals was a legislative court,
definitely took the opposite view. The status of the
Court of Claims is there discussed at length, and the conclusion reached that it likewise is a legislative court. "It

WILLIAMS v. UNITED STATES.
553

Opinion of' the Court.

was created, and has been maintained," we there said,
"as a special tribunal to examine and determine claims
for money against the United States. This is a function
which belongs primarily to Congress as an incident of
its power to pay the debts of the United States. But the
function is one which Congress has a discretion either to
exercise directly or to delegate to other agencies." The
opinion then points out that the Court of Claims is, and
always has been, as Congress declared at the outset, "a
court for the investigation bf claims against the United
States"; that none of the matters made cognizable by
the court inherently or necessarily 'requires judicial determination, but on the contrary "all are matters which
are susceptible of legislative or executive determination
and can have.no other save under and in conformity with
permissive legislation by Congress." It is noted as significant that-the act constituting the court dispenses with
trial by jury, a provision which was 'distinctly upheld in
spite of the Seventh Amendment in McElrath v. United
States, 102 U.S. 426. With respect to the status of the
court, the opinion concludes (pp. 454-455):
"While What has been said of the creation and special
function of the court definitely reflects its status as a
le gislative court, there is propriety in mentioning the fact
that Congress always has treated it as having that status.
From the outset Congress has required it to give merely
advisory decisions on many matters. Under the act
creating it all of its decisions were to be of that nature.
Afterwards some were to have effect as binding judgments, but others were still to be merely advisory. This
is true at the present time. A duty to give decisions
which are advisory only, and so without force as judicial
judgments, may be laid on a legislative court, but not on
a constitutional court established under Article III.
"In Gordon v. United States, 117 U.S. 697, and again
in In re Sanborn, 148 U.S. 222, this Court plainly was of

570

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

opinion that the Court of Claims is a legislative court
specially created to consider claims for money against
the United States, and on that basis distinctly recognized that Congress may require it to give advisory decisions. And in United States v. Klein, 13 Wall. 128,
144-145, this Court described it as having all the functions
of a court, but being, as respects its organization and
existence, undoubtedly and completely under the control
of Congress.
"In the present case the court below regarded the
recent decision in Miles v. Graham, 268 U.S. 501, as disapproving what was said in the cases just cited, and holding that the Court of Claims is a constitutional rather
than a legislative court. But in this Miles v. Graham
was taken too broadly. The opinion therein contains
no mention of the cases supposed to have been disapproved; nor does it show that this Court's attention was
drawn to the question whether that court is a statutory
court or a constitutional court. In fact, as appears from
the briefs, that question was not mooted. Such as were
mooted were considered and determined in the opinion.
Certainly the decision is not to be taken in this case as
disturbing the earlier rulings or attributing to the Court
of Claims a changed status. Webster v. Fall, 266 U.S.
507, 511.
"That court was said to be a constitutional court in
United States v. Union Pacific R.R. Co., 98 U.S. 569,
602-603; but this statement was purely an obiter dictum,
because the question whether the Court of Claims is a
constitutional court or a legislative court was in no way
involved. And any weight the dictum, as such, might
have is more than overcome by what has been said on
the question in other cases where there was need for
considering it."
It is true that the foregoing views expressed in the
Bakelite case were likewise not strictly necessary to the

WILLIAMS v. UNITED STATES.
553

Opinion of the Court.

decision; but unlike previous and contrary expressions of
opinion on the same subject, they are elucidated and fortified by reasoning and illustration, and, moreover, are
the result of a careful review of the entire matter. It is
also. true that in the O'Donoghue case, supra, we have
rejected the dictum in the Bakelite case as to the status
of the Supreme Court and Court of Appeals of the
District of Columbia, but a reference to the discussion in
the O'Donoghue case will make apparent the difference in
force between the dictum there involved and the one
here involved. In addition to this, whatever may be said*
in respect of the obiter character of the opinion as to
the Court of Claims, the status of the Court of Customs
Appeals, as a purely legislative court, was definitely
adjudged. And neither by brief nor in argument here is
any serious attempt made to differentiate, in respect of
the question now being considered, between the Court
of Claims and the Court of Customs Appeals; and we
have been unable to discover any ground 'for such a
differentiation.
Further reflection tends only to confirm the views expressed in the Bakelite opinion as to the status of the
Court of Customs Appeals, and we feel bound to reaffirm
and apply them. And, giving these views due effect here,
we see no escape from. the conclusion that if the Court
of Customs Appeals is a legislative court, so also is the
Court of Claims. We might well rest the present case
upon that determination; but must not do so without considering another view of the question, which seems to find
support in some expressions of this court, namely, that
when the United States consents to be sued, the judicial
power of Art. III at once attaches to the court upon which
jurisdiction is conferred in virtue of the clause which in
comprehensive terms extends the judicial power to "controversies to which the United States shall be a party."

572

OCTOBIDR TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 Us.

In Minnesota v. Hitchcock, supra, at pp. 384, 386, it
was said:
"This is a controversy to which the United States may
be regarded as a party. It is one, therefore, to which the
judicial power of the United States extends. It is, of
course, under that clause a matter of indifference whether
the United States is a party plaintiff or defendant. It
could not fairly be adjudged that the judicial power of the
United States extends to those cases in which the United
States is a party plaintiff and does not extend to those
cases in which it is a party defendant.
"While the United States as a government may not
be sued without its consent, yet with its consent it may
be sued, and the judicial power of the United States
extends to such a controversy."
See also Kansas v. United States, supra, at p. 342
This conception of the application of the judicial article
of the Constitution, which at first glance seems plausible,
will be found upon examination and consideration to be
entirely fallacious.
We first direct attention to the carefully chosen words
of § 2, cl..1, Art. III. By that clause the judicial power
is extended to all cases in law and equity arising under
the Constitution, etc.; to all cases affecting ambassadors,
other public ministers and consuls; and to all cases of
admiralty and maritime jurisdiction. Then the comprehensive word "all" is dropped, and the enumeration continues in terms to aplily to controversies (but not to
"all ") to which the United States shall be a party; to
controversies between two or more states, etc. The use
of the word "all " in some cases, and its omission in others,
cannot be regarded as accidental, under the rule stated
in an early case, Holmes v. Jennison, 14 Pet. 540, 570-571,
and ever since fully accepted, that-" In expounding the

WILLIAMS v. UNITED STATES.
553

Opinion of the Court.

Constitution of the United States, every word nmust have
its due force, and appropriate meaning; for it is evident

from the whole instrument, that no word was unnecessarily used, or needlessly added. The many discussions
which have taken place upon the construction of the Constitution, have proved the correctness of this proposition;
and shown the high talent, the caution, and the foresight
of the illustrious men who framed it. Every word appears
to have been weighed with the utmost deliberation, and
its force and effect to have been fully understood." See
also Myers v. United States, 272 U.S. 52, 151.
The significance of the use of the word "all" in some
instances and its omission in others is commented upon by
Mr. Justice Story in Martin v. Hunter's Lessee, 1 Wheat.
304, 333-336, and it is there suggested that the word
"all," which is used in the earlier part of § 2 of the judicial
article, was dropped in the latter ex industria, and that
from this difference of phraseology, perhaps, a difference
of constitutional intention may with propriety be inferred.
See also 2 Story on the Constitution, (4th ed.), p. 458,
§1674 et seq.
We are here immediately concertd only with that provision of Article III which extends the judicial power to
"controversies to which the United States shall be a
party." Literally, this includes such controversies,
whether the United States be party plaintiff or defendant;
but in the light of the rule, then well settled and understood, that the sovereign power is immune from suit, the
conclusion is inadmissible that the framers of the Constitution intended to include suits or actions brought against
the United States. And here the omission to qualify
" controversies" by the word "all," as in some other
instances, becomes peculiarly suggestive.
The Judiciary Act of 1789 has always been regarded as
practically contemporaneous with the Constitution, and as

574

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

such, of great value in expounding the meaning .f the.
judicial article of that instrument. Martin v. Hunter's
Lessee, supra, at pp. 351-352; Cohens v. Virginia, supra,
at p. 420; B6rs v. Preston,111 U.S. 252, 256-257; Wisconsin v. Pelican Ins. Co., 127 U.S. 265, 297. Section 11 of
that act, c. 20, 1 Stat. 73, 78, confers jurisdiction on
the circuit courts, under specified conditions, of 'suits
"where . . .the United States are plaintiffs, or petitioners; . . ." And in Cohens v. Virginia, supra, at
pp. 411-412, Chief Justice Marshall said, "The universally
received opinion is, that no suit can be commenced or
prosecuted against the United States; that the judiciary
act does not authorize such suits."
The judicial clause also extends the judicial power
(again omitting the word "all ") to controversies "between a State and citizens of another State." The question as to whether this authorized a suit against a state by
a citizen of another state was considered in Chisholm v.
Georgia, 2 Dall. 419. Opinions were delivered seriatim,
four justices, then constituting a majority, agreeing that
such a suit could be maintained. Justice Iredell dissented
in a vigorous opinion. He pointed out that prior to the
adoption of the Constitution a sovereign state, without
its consent, was not amenable to suit at the hands of an
individual, and concluded that this rule had not been
abrogated by the constitutional provision, in spite of the
generality of its language. The immediate response to
this decision was the submission and adoption of the
Eleventh Amendment, which provides:
"The judicial power of the United States shall not be
construed to extend to any suit in law or equity, commenced or prosecuted against one of the United States
by citizens of another State, or by citizens or subjects of
any foreign State."
In terms this amendment includes only citizens or subjects of another or of a foreign state, not citizens of the

WILLIAMS v. UNITED STATES.
553

575.

Opinion of the Court.

state called to account. And in December, 1884, a suit
was brought in a federal circuit court against the State
of Louisiana by a citizen of that state to recover the
amount of certain unpaid coupons annexed to an issue of
state bonds. Hans v. Louisiana,24 Fed. 55. The circuit
court dismissed the suit upon the ground that the state
could not be sued without its consent. The case then
came to this court on error, and the judgment was affirmed. Hans v. Louisiana,134 U.S. 1. The precise question considered and determined was--Does the judicial
power of the United States extend to a case arising under
the Constitution or laws thereof, brought against a state
by one of its own citizens? Mr. Justice Bradley delivered
the opinion of the court. Plaintiff in error contended
that, being a citizen of Louisiana, the Eleventh Amendment presented no obstacle to his suit, since that amendment prohibits suits against a state only when brought
by citizens of another state, or by citizens or subjects of
a foreign state. This court, conceding that the amendment so reads, said that if there were no other reason or
ground for abating the suit it might be maintainable,
with the anomalous result that a state might be sued in
the federal courts by its own citizens, though it could not
be sued for a like cause of action by citizens or subjects
of another or foreign state. But, it said, such a result
would be no less startling and unexpected than was the
decision in Chisholm v. Georgia, which in effect had been
overruled by the Eleventh Amendment; and the dissenting opinion of Mr. Justice Iredell, which was characterized as able, was distinctly approved. As opposed to the
decision in Chisholm v. Georgia, attention also was called
to the utterances of Hamilton and others, pending the
adoption of the Constitution, to the precise contrary.
Hamilton repudiated the suggestion that the citizens of
one State would be enabled, under the original draft of

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

the Constitution, to prosecute suits against another state
in the federal courts. He said (p. 13):
"It is inherent in the nature of sovereignty not to be
amenable to the suit of an individual without, its consent. This is the general sense and the general practice of
mankind; and the exemption, as one of the attributes
of sovereignty, is now enjoyed by the government of
every State in the Union. Unless, therefore, there is a
surrender of this immunity in the plan of the convention,
it will remain with the States and the danger intimated
The contracts between a
must be merely ideal ....
nation and individuals are only binding on the conscience
of the sovereign, and have no pretension to a compulsive
force. They confer no right of action independent (of the
sovereign will."
The words of Madison and of Marshall in the Virginia
Convention were quoted, the former to the effect that
the only operation which the provision of the judicial
clause then under discussion could have was that "if a
State should wish to bring a suit against a citizen [of another state], it must be brought before the federal court ";
and those of Marshall: "I hope that no gentleman will
think that a State will be called at the bar of the federal
court. . . It is not rational to suppose that the sovereign power should be dragged before a court. The intent
is to enable States to recover claims of individuals residing
in other States . . . I see a difficulty in making a State
defendant which, does not prevent its being plaintiff."
This court then declared (p. 14) that "looking at the
subject as Hamilton did, and as Mr. Justice Iredell did,
in the light of history and experience and the established
order of things, the views of the latter were clearly right ";
and that the views expressed by them applied as well to
the then pending case as tb that of Chisholm v. Georgia.
Refusing to adhere to the mere letter of the Eleventh
Amendment, the court said that to do so would be to strain

WILLIAMS v. UNITED STATES.
553

Opinion of the Court.

the Constitution to a construction never imagined or
dreamed of, and then added, "The truth is, that the
cognizance of suits and actions unknown to the law, and
forbidden by the law, [that is to say, as applied to the
present case, of suits against the United States] was not
contemplated by the Constitution when establishing the
judicial power of the United States."
This language applies with equal force to suits against
a state and those brought against the United States. The
doctrine of sovereign immunity is fully discussed in Hans
v. Louisiana,and in the dissenting opinion of Mr. Justice
Iredell in Chisholm v. Georgia. We need not repeat that
discussion here. Mr. Justice Holmes, speaking for the
court in Kawananakoa v. Polyblank, 205 U.S. 349, 353,
tersely said, "A sovereign is exempt from suit, not because
of any formal conception or obsolete theory, but on the
logical and practical ground that there can be no legal
right as against the authority that makes the law on
which the right depends." It is enough to say that in
the light of the settled and unvarying rule upon that subject it is not reasonably possible to assume that it was
within the contemplation of the framers of the Constitution that the words, "controversies to which the United
States shall be a party," should include controversies to
which the United States shall be a.party defendant. That
clause must be construed, in accordance with the practical construction put upon it by the first Judiciary Act,
as though it read, "controversies to which the United
States shall be a party plaintiff or petitioner "; and, thus
read, controversies to which the United States may by
statute be made a party defendant, at least as a general
rule, lie wholly outside the scope of the judicial power
vested by Art. III in the constitutional courts. See
United States v. Texas, 143 U.S. 621, 645-646.
The view, therefore, that when congressional consent
has been given to the maintenance of suits against the
15450-33-37

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

United States, it ipso facto becomes a matter of indifference whether the United States is a party plaintiff or defendant, because the judicial power as defined in Art. III
immediately and automatically extends to such suits,
must be rejected. It cannot be reconciled with the settled
principle that where a controversy is of such a character
as to require the exercise of the judicial power defined
by Art. III, jurisdiction thereof can be conferred only on
courts established in virtue of that article, and that:Congress is without power to vest that judicial power in any
other judicial tribunal, or, of course, in an executive
officer, or administrative or executive board, since, to
repeat the language of Chief Justice Marshall in American Ihsurance Co. v. Canter, supra, "they are incapable
of receiving it."
The rule is stated in Ex parte Randolph, 2 Brock. 447,
20 Fed. Cas. *(No. 11,558) 242, 254, by Chief Justice
Marshall, sitting on the circuit. That case involved the
legality of an arrest by virtue of a distress warrant issued
from the Treasury Department, under an act of Congress
which provided for the issuing of such a warrant by the
agent of the Treasury against all military and naval
officers, etc., charged with the disbursement of the public
moneys, who should fail to pay and settle their accounts
with the Treasury Department. Under the act the Treasury Department had settled the account and ascertained
the sum due to the government. The act was attacked as
unconstitutional on the ground that it violated the first
section of the third article of the Constitution. As preliminary to the determination of the question, Chief
Justice Marshall said:
"If this ascertainment of the sum due to the government, and this issuing of process to levy the sum so ascertained to be due, be the exercise of any part of the judicial
power of the United States, the law which directs it, is
plainly a violation of the first section of the third article of
the constitution, which declares, that 'the judicial power

WILLIAMS v. UNITED STATES.
553

Opinion of the Court.

of the United States shall be vested in one supreme court,
and in such inferior courts as congress shall from time
to time ordain and establish. The judges, both of the
supreme and inferior courts, shall hold their offices during
good behaviour.'. The judicial power extends to 'controversies to which the United States shall be a party.' The
persons who are directed by the act of Congress to ascertain the debt due from a delinquent receiver of public
money, and to issue process to compel the payment of
that debt, do not compose a court ordained and established by congress, nor do they hold offices during good
behaviour. Their offices are held at the pleasure of the
President of the United States. They are, consequently,
incapable of exercising any portion of the judicial power,
and the act which attempts to confer it, is absolutely
void."
In Murray's Lessee v. Hoboken Land & Improvement
Co., 18 How. 272, 284, it was declared to be beyond the
power of Congress either to "withdraw from judicial cognizance any matter which, from its nature, is the subject
of a suit at the common law, or in equity, or admiralty ";
or, on the other hand, to "bring under the judicial power
a matter which, from its nature, is not a subject for
judicial determination. At the same time there are
matters, involving public rights, which may be presented
in such form that the judicial power is capable of acting
on them, and which are susceptible of judicial determination, but which congress may or may not bring within
the cognizance of the courts of the United States, as it
may deem proper." See also United States v. Duell,
172 U.S. 576, 582, 589.
Since all matters made cognizable by the Court of
Claims are equally susceptible of legislative or executive
determination, Bakelite case, supra, pp. 452, 458, they
are, of course, matters in respect of which there is no
constitutional right to a judicial remedy, United States v.
Babcock, 250 U.S. 328, 331; and the authority to inquire

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

into and decide them may constitutionally be conferred
on a nonjudicial officer or body. In United States v.
Ferreira,13 How. 40, 48, this court, referring to an act
of Congress (passed in pursuance of a treaty), directing
that judges of the territorial courts of Florida should
examine and adjudge certain claims against the United
States for losses suffered as the result of military operations, with power of review reserved to the Secretary of
the Treasury, held that the power conferred, although
judicial in nature, was nothing more than the power
ordinarily given by law to a commissioner appointed to
adjust claims under a treaty. "A power of this description," it was said, "may constitutionally be conferred
on a Secretary as well as on a commissioner. But [it] is
not judicial in either case, in the sense in which judicial
power is granted by the Constitution to the courts of the
United States."
The view under discussion-that Congress having consented that the United States may be sued, the judicial
power defined in Art. III at once attaches to the court
authorized to hear and determine the suits--must, then,
be rejected, for the further reason, or, perhaps, what
comes to the same reason differently stated, that it cannot be reconciled with the limitation fundamentally implicit in the constitutional separation of the powers,
namely, that a. power definitely assigned by the Constitution to one department can neither be surrendered nor
delegated by that department, nor vested by statute in
another department or agency. Compare Springer v.
PhilippineIslands,277 U.S. 189, 201-202. And since Congress, whenever it thinks proper, undoubtedly may, without infringing the Constitution, confer upon an executive
officer or administrative board, or an existing or specially
constituted court, or retain for itself, the power to hear
and determine controversies respecting claims against
the United States, it follows indubitably that such power,
in whatever guise or by whatever agency exercised, is no

WILLIAMS v. UNITED STATES.
553

-

Opinion of the Court.

part of the judicial power vested in the constitutional
courts by the third article. That is to say, a power which
may be devolved, at the will of Congress, upon any of
the three departments plainly is not within the doctrine
of the separation and independent exercise of governmental powers contemplated by the tripartite distribution of such powers. Compare Kilbourn v. Thompson,
103 U.S. 168, 190-191.
We find nothing which militates against the foregoing
views in the requirement that the Court of Claims, in
cases properly brought before it in respect of property
expropriated in the exercise of the power of eminent
domain, must award just compensation under the Fifth
Amendment, or in the provision of the Tucker Act (U.S.
Code, Title 28, § 252) requiring the court in cases brought
against the government also to consider and decide setoffs and other claims made by the government against the
petitioner and award judgment accordingly. In the
former case the requirement is one imposed by the Constitution and equally applicable whether jurisdiction be
exercised by a legislative court or a constitutional court;
and the latter is simply a provision which the claimant
must accept as a condition upon which he may avail himself of the privilege of suing the government in the special
court organized for that purpose. McElrath v. United
States, supra at p. 440.
From whatever point of view the question be regarded,
the conclusion is inevitable that the Court of Claims receives no authority and its judges no rights from the
judicial article of the Constitution, but that the court
derives its being and its powers and the judges their
rights from the acts of Congress passed in pursuance of
other and distinct constitutional provisions. The questions propounded will be answered accordingly.
Question No. 1, No.
Question No. 2, No.
Question No. 8, Yes.

