OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Syllabus.

289 U.S.

not necessary to review this practical construction. It
is sufficient to say that only in recent years has any

question been raised by state officials as to the authority
of Congress to impose duties upon their imports.

In view of these conclusions, we find it unnecessary to
consider the questions raised with respect to the particular
functions of the petitioner and its right to invoke -the
principle for which it contends.
Judgment affirmed.

FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF SHREVEPORT ET AL.
v. LOUISIANA TAX COMMISSION ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF LOUISIANA

No. 293.

Argued January 12, 1933.-Decided March 20, 1933

1. Where several suits were consolidated for trial and tried in a state
court, appealed to the state supreme court on a single transcript,
and there docketed and argued as one case and disposed of by a,
single written opinion,-held a complete consolidation reviewable
in this Court by a single appeal, although there was a separate
judgment for each suit in the trial court. P. 62.
2. A state law taxing all the property of banks that make loans
mainly from money of depositors; but exempting other competing
moneyed capital .employed in making loans mainly from money
supplied otherwise than by deposits, is consistent with the equal
protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 63.
3. To avoid a state tax on national bank shares under R.S., § 5219,
it is necessary to prove not only that the bank was authorized
to engage in, but that, during the tax year, its moneys were actually
and in substantial amount employed in, some line of business which
was then being carried on also by other and less heavily taxed
moneyed capital. So held where there was no reason to suppose
that national banks were prevented from competing by the tax
discrimination. P. 64.
4. The evidence in this case does not prove that the complaining
national banks were engaged in lending money on real estate
mortgages, or were in competition with "small loan" companies,
so-called Morris Plan and Morgan Plan companies, or automobile

FIRST NAT. BANK v. TAX COMM'N.
60

Opinion of the Court.

finance companies, in the making of small loans and the financing
of purchases of automobiles and household goods. P. 65.
175 La. 119; 143 So. 23, 28, affirmed.
APPEAL from a judgment of the Supreme Court of
Louisiana which reversed the judgment of the trial court
annulling tax assessments on three national banks. The
suits were consolidated.

Messrs. Howard B. Warren and Lewell C. Butler for
appellants.
Mr. Elias Goldstein, with whom Messrs. G. L. Porterie,
Aubrey M. Pyburn, H. C. Walker, Jr., and Leon O'Quin
were on the brief, for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEiS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
-Three national banks, located at Shreveport, Louisiana,-the Commercial National, the First National and
the American National-brought, in a district court of
that State, separate suits against the Tax Commission
and officials of Caddo parish, to annul the assessment of
all taxes, other than upon real estate, which had been
imposed upon their corporate property for the year 1930,
under Louisiana Act 14 of 1917, as amended by Act 116
of 1922 and Act 221 of 1928. The claim in each case was
that the statute as applied is void, because other moneyed
capital employed in the same locality in competition with
the capital of the plaintiff is not taxed at all, or is taxed
less heavily, in violation of both § 5219 of the Revised
Statutes of the United States and the equality clause of
the Fourteenth Amendment.,
1

There was also, in each case, a claim that a small tax had been
laid illegally upon the plaintiff's furniture and fixtures. The rights of
each plaintiff in this regard were expressly reserved by the decree of
the Supreme- Court of the State.

62

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

The three cases were y agreement consolidated for
trial; and were heard upon the same evidence, which in
abbreviated form occupies, with the exhibits, 617 pages of
the printed record. In each case judgment was entered
for the plaintiff; and in each the defendants took a separate appeal to the Supreme Court of Louisiana, which
reversed the judgments of the trial court. 175 La. 119;
143 So. 23, 28. The plaintiffs appealed to this Court;
and the defendants moved to dismiss the appeal on the
ground that the plaintiffs had embraced in a single appeal
the separate judgments rendered in the three cases. Consideration of that motion was postponed to the argument
on the merits.
The argument for dismissal is that the cases had been
consolidated below only for the purpose of trial; that since
there was no true consolidation of the causes below, and a
separate judgment was rendered in each, the separate
causes cannot be brought for review to this Court by a
single appeal. Compare Brown v. Spofford, 95 U.S. 474,
484-485. The record discloses that a complete consolidation of the causes was effected. Not only were the three
cases consolidated for trial in the District Court; they were
taken to the Supreme Court of the State, on a single transcript; were there docketed and argued as one case; and
were there disposed of by a single written opinion. The
record shows also that a joint petition for a rehearing was
filed and likewise disposed of by a single opinion. The
motion to dismiss the appeal is denied.
The claims of invalidity rest upon the following provisions of the Louisiana laws. The real estate of all banking corporations, state or national, is assessed to the corporation at its full value and the shares are assessed to
the stockholders at their book value after deducting the
value of the real estate. No other tax is laid on the property of a bank. Corporations other than those engaged in
banking are taxed by assessing to them all of their prop-

FIRST NAT. BANK v. TAX COMM'N.
60

Opinion of the Court.

erty not exempt from taxation, in the same manner that
the property of an individual is assessed to him. The
shares of stock in such corporations are not taxed. The
discrimination charged is that under these statutes all
banking capital is taxed, whereas a large part of the
moneyed capital employed in competition with the plaintiffs by non-banking corporations escapes taxation, wholly
or in part, by reason of the following provisions of the
local law:
(a) Article X, § 4, of the Louisiana Constitution, which
exempts from taxation:
"Cash on hand or on deposit; loans or other obligations
secured by mortgage on property located exclusively in
the State of Louisiana, and the notes or other evidence
thereof; loans by life insurance companies to policyholders, secured solely by their policies; loans by homestead
associations to their members, secured solely by stock of
such associations; debts due for merchandise or other
articles of commerce or for services; obligations of the
State or its political subdivisions; household property of
the value of one thousand dollars; legal reserve, of life
insurance companies organized under the laws of this
State; ..
(b) Act 24 of the Extra Session of 1918, which allows,
in the assessment of credits, an offset for accounts pay-,
able, bills payable, and other liabilities of a similar character. Act 163 of 1924, which provides that bonds of other
states and political subdivisions thereof, bonds of railways, railroads and other public utilities, manufacturing
and industrial corporations, and bonds secured by real
estate,, except such as are exempt from taxation by law,
shall be assessed at 10 per cent of their market value.
First. It is contended that the statutes violate, on their
face, the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment, since banks are taxed more heavily than
loan companies, finance and securities companies, pawn-

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

brokers, homestead and building associations, Federal
Joint Stock Land Banks, life insurance companies, real
estate mortgage and investment, or bond and investment
brokers; and that the court must take judicial notice
that all of these other corporations lend money in competition with the plaintiffs. That contention is unfounded.
If we may take judicial notice of the functions of these
alleged competitors of the plaintiffs, there appears ample
basis for the classification, among other things, in this:
There is a fundamental difference between banks, which
make loans mainly from money of depositors, and the
other financial institutions, which make loans mainly
from the money supplied otherwise than by deposits.
Compare Northwestern Mutual Life Ins. Co. -v. Wisconsin, 247 U.S. 132, 140-141; Louisville Gas & Electric
Co. v. Coleman, 277 U.S. 32, 40.
Second. It is contended that the statute as applied
must be held void under § 5219 of the Revised Statutes
of the United States, since it appears that, during the
tax year, moneyed capital was employed by non-banking
corporations in, some lines of business in which the plaintiffs are authorized to engage. In other words, it is
claimed that inconsistency of the state statutes with § 5219
may be established without proving the fact that the
plaintiffs were actually competing, during 1930, in some
line of business in which the non-banking corporations
were engaged. The trial court, in rendering judgment for
the plaintiffs, approved this contention. But it is unfounded. To establish the invalidity, it is necessary to
prove not only that the plaintiffs were empowered by law
and authorized by their stockholders to engage in a competitive line of business, but that, during the tax year,
moneys of these national banks were in fact employed in
substanfial amount in some line of business which was
.arried on, during the year, by less heavily taxed nonbanking concerns. It is as necessary to prove that the

FIRST NAT. BANK v. TAX COMM'N.
60

Opinion of the Court.

bank's capital was so employed as it. is to prove that
moneyed capital whs actually employed by others in substantial competition with the national banks. Compare
First National Bank of Garnett v. Ayers, 160 U.S. 660,
667; National Bank of Wellington v. Chapman, 173 U.S.
205, 217-219; Georgetown National Bank v. McFarland,
273 U.S. 568. For plaintiffs are entitled to the relief
against statutes alleged to be unconstitutional only if the
statute as applied discriminates injuriously against them.
Supervisors v. Stanley, 105 U.S. 305, 314. It is argued
that national banks might conceivably be prevented from
engaging in actual competition with other moneyed capital by reason of the very features complained of in the
taxing statutes. Compare People ex rel. Pratt v. Goldfogle, 242 N.Y. 277, 302; 151 N.E. 452. But no suggestion is made that such was the situation in the case at
bar.
Third. The contention mainly relied upon is that, upon
the evidence, it appears that moneyed capital of the plaintiffs was employed during the tax year in several lines of
business in which moneyed capital was also employed by
non-banking corporations; and that the latter were not
taxed thereon.
(a) The item most strenuously urged upon us is that
the plaintiffs were engaged in lending money on mortgages of real estate, a line of business in which many
mortgage companies, insurance companies, building and
loan associations, and individuals were also engaged; and
that the latter escaped taxation thereon. The record
discloses that each of the banks held real estate mortgages
in a substantial amount. But the fact that the banks
held mortgages does not prove that they lent money on
the security of those mortgages. These may have been
taken to secure pre-existing liabilities or as additional
security for personal loans. The Supreme Court found:
"The testimony leaves no doubt that there was no com15450°

33-

66

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

petition with the national banks on the part of any
concern lending money on mortgage of real estate,
because national banks will never handle such loans."
The record contains evidence ample to support that
finding.
(b) Other items relate to alleged competition of the
banks with the capital employed by loan companies,
so-called Morris Plan and Morgan Plan companies, and
automobile finance companies, in the making of small
loans and the financing of purchaises of automobiles and
household goods. The record shows that the plaintiff
banks conducted small-loans departments. But there
was evidence to indicate that those to whom the banks
granted such loans differed as a class from those who
borrowed from the institutions alleged to be competing.
The Supreme Court found: "The small loan companies,
complained of in this suit, are those that make only loans
not exceeding $300, and that are allowed to charge interest
at the rate of 31/2 per cent per month. The loans, as a
rule, are secured by chattel mortgages. The testimony
of the officers of these companies, and of the officers of
the national banks, leaves no doubt that these small loan
companies are not competitors of the national banks. The
business of the small loan companies, the same as that of
the pawnbrokers, is not in any class of business done by
national banks, and is not in competition with any of the
business done by national banks. The business of the
Morris Plan Company and that of the Morgan Plan Company is the making of small loans, averaging $180 payable
out of the borrower's salary. The testimony of the bank
officials shows that the business of such companies is not
in competition with the business done or desired by the
national banks. And that is true also of the so-called
finance and securities companies, whose business is to
lend money on long series of notes given for the price of
automobiles, refrigerators, radios, etc., and secured by

PUB. SERV. COMM'N v. WIS. TEL. CO.

67

Syllabus.

60

chattel mortgages. The national banks would never
handle such business. They prefer to-and do in factlend to such companies." These findings are supported
by the record.
As we should not be warranted in disturbing these, or
any of the other, findings of the Supreme Court complained of, compare Georgetown National Bank v. McFarland, 273 U.S. 568, we have no occasion to consider an
alternative ground urged for affirmance-that the operation of the taxing system of the State resulted, in fact, in
substantial equality between bank shares and other
moneyed capital.

Affirmed.

PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION OF WISCONSIN
ET AL.

v. WISCONSIN TELEPHONE CO.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF WISCONSIN

No. 517.

Argued March 15, 1933.-Decided March 27, 1933

1. The importance of statements by the District Courts of the
grounds of their decisions, covering both facts and law, is again
emphasized. P. 69.
2. It is particularly important that the appellate court should be
adequately advised of the basis of the determination of the court
below when the decree enjoins the enforcement of a state law or the
action of state officials under state law. P. 70.
3. The reasons exist, and are not the less imperative, when the injunction is interlocutory. Id.
4. Although Equity Rule 701/2, requiring that "in deciding suits in
equity" the court of first instance shall find the facts specially and
state separately its conclusions of law thereon, does not embrace
interlocutory applications, the duty to set forth the grounds and
reasons for an interlocutory injunction restraining enforcement of
rates fixed by a state commission was not altered by the adoption
of that Rule. P. 70.
5. Where the court below fails to perform this duty, this Court will
not search a,voluminous record to find a basis for the interlocutory
decree, but will vacate the decree and remand the cause for proper
findings and conclusions. P. 71.

