OCTOBER TERM, 1932.

266

289 U.S.

Syllabus.

guilty of actionable neglect in its manufacture. See Bohlen, "Studies . in the Law of Torts," pp. 109 et seq.; MacPhersonv. Buick Motor Co., 217 N.Y. 382; 111 N.E. 1050.
That question is not before us. Whatever liability there

may be in that aspect, either to respondent or to others,
it is not a liability falling within the policy and purview
of the Act of Congress limiting the liability of shipowners.
Decree affirmed.
FEDERAL

RADIO

COMMISSION

v, NELSON

BROTHERS BOND & MORTGAGE CO.

(STATION

WIBO)
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT
OF COLUMBIA

No. 657. Argued April 11, 1933.-Decided May 8, 1933
1. Congress can confer administrative authority on courts of the District of Columbia; but jurisdiction to review administrative ques
tions can not be exercised by this Court. P. 274.
2. Under the amended Radio Act, which limits review of the Radio
Commission by the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia
to "questions of law" and provides "that findings of fact by the
Commission, if supported by substantial evidence, shall be conclusive unless it shall clearly appear that the findings of the Commission are arbitrary or capricious," the function of that court is no
longer administrative but is purely judicial, and its' judgments are
reviewable in this Court by certiorari. Federal Radio Comm'n v.
General Electric Co., 281 U.S. 464, distinguished. Pp. 275-278.
3. The fact that the judicial remedy is by appeal from the Commission rather than by a suit de novo, does not affect its judicial
quality. P. 277.
4. That clause of the Act which provides that in ca-c of a reversal
the court "shall remand the case to the Commission to carry out
Together with No. 658, Federal Radio Comm'n v. North Shore
Church (Station WPCC); No. 659, Federal Radio Comm'n et al. v.
Nelson Brothers Bond & Mortgage Co. (Station WIBO); and No.
660, Federal Radio Comm'n et al. v. North Shore Church (Station

WPCC).

RADIO COMM'N v. NELSON BROS. CO.
266

267

Syllabus.

the judgment of the court," means no more than that the Commission in its further action is to respect and follow the court's
determination of thequestions of law. P. 278.
5. Congress has power under the commerce clause to regulate radio
communication. P. 279.
6. The duty of the Radio Commission to make "fair and equitable
allocation of licenses, wave lengths, time of operation and station
power to each of the States within each zone according to population," under the Radio Act as amended, does not require separate
allocation on that basis as to each of the three types of stations"clear, regional and local'-in the Commission's classification
P. 281.
7. The Commission, in making allocations of frequencies to States
within a zone, has the power to license operation by a station in
an under-quota State on a frequency theretofore assigned to a sge
tion in an over-quota State, provided the Commission does not act
arbitrarily or capriciously. -P. 282.
8. The authority granted the Commission to effect adjustment of
broadcasting facilities as between States "by granting 6r refusing
licenses or renewals of licenses, by changing periods of time for
operation, and by increasing or decreasing station power," plainly
extends to the deletion of existing stations if that course befound
necessary to produce an equitable result. P. 282.
9. That Congress had the power to give this authority to delete stations, in view of the limited radio facilities available and confusion
resulting from interferences, is not open to question. P. 282.
10. Owners of broadcasting stations necessarily make their investments and contracts subject to the paramount regulatory power of
Congress. P. 282.
11. The power of Congress to regulate interstate commerce is not to
be fettered by a necessity for maintaining private arrangements
that would interfere with the execution of its policy. P. 282.
12. In providing for "equal" allocation as between zones and "fair
and equitable" allocation as between States in a zone, the Act
seeks reasonable equality, not geographical merely, but of oppor.
tunity to the people; and this involves an equitable distribution not
only as between zones but between States as well. P. 283.
13. To construe the authority conferred, in relation to the deletion
of stations, as being applicable only to an apportionment between
zones and not between States, would defeat the manifest purpose
of the Act. P. 283.

-268

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Statement of the Case.

289 U;S.

14. A broadcasting Jicense in one State may be renewed temporarily,
s(ibject to future action on an application pending for assignment
of its wave length to a station in another State of the same zone;
and when the Commission decides to make the transfer, the license
may be terminated in accordance with the reservation. Proceedings for revocation under § 14 of the Act are not involved. P. 24.
15. The standard of "public convenience, (interest or necessity." set
up by the Act is not objectionable as conferring indefinite and
unlimited power, but is defined by the context and subject matter,
and, where an equitable adjustment between States is in view, by
the relative advantages in service which will be enjoyed by the
public through the distribution of facilities. P. 285.
16. In making "fair and equitable allocation," the equities of existing
stations must be considered; and the weight of the evidence on that
subject and all other pertinent facts, is for the determination of
the Commission. P. 285.
17. The Commission is not bound to maintain an allocation if fair and
equitable distribution makes a change necessary. P. 285:
18. The Commission must reach its own conclusions on the evidence
though at variance from the conclusions of its-examiner. P. 285.
19. A general order of the Radio Commissiun requiring that applicants in an under-quota State in a zone already enjoying its full
Oro rata share of broadcasting facilities shall apply for "some
facility already in use in that zone by an ovet-quota State," held
merely a rule of procedural convenience, which does not preclude
consideration of whether other facilities in the over-quota State
should be granted in place of those applied for. P. 286.
20. Parties- who were fuliy heard by the Commission's examiner and
notified of the taking of the case to the Commission by their opponent upon exceptions to the examiner's report, have no ground to
complain of the Commission's omission to grant them an oral
hearing for which they did nnt ask. P. 287.
62 F. (2d) 854, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 288 U.S. 597, to review the reversal of an
order of the Federal Radio Commission licensing a broadcasting station in Indiana to operate on a radio frequency
theretofore assigned to and enjoyed by two stations in
Illinois, and terminating the licenses of those stations.

RADIO COMM'N v. NELSON BROS. CO.
266

269

Opinion of the Court.

Solicitor General Thacher, with whom Messrs. William
G. Davis and Hammond E. Chaffetz were on the brief,
for the Federal Radio Commission, petitioner.
Mrs. Mabel Walker Willebrandt for Johnson-Kennedy
Radio Corp., petitioner.
Mr. James M. Beck, with whom. Messrs. George IK.
Beneman, Fred W. Weitzel, John Strother Boyd, and
Edward Clifford were on the brief, for respondents.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES

delivered the opinion' of

the Court.
The Johnson-Kennedy Radio Corporation, owning
Station WJKS at Gary, Indiana, applied to the Federal
Radio Commission for modification of license so as to
permit operation, with unlimited time, on the frequency
of 560 kc. then assigned for the use of Station WIBO,
owned by Nelson Brothers Bond & Mortgage Company,
and Station WPCC, owned by the North Shore Church,
both of Chicago, Illinois.. These owners appeared before
the chief examiner, who, after taking voluminous testimony, recommended that the application be denied. The
applicant filed exceptions and, on consideration of the
evidence, the Commission granted the application and
directed a modified license to issue to the applicant authorizing the operation of Station WJKS on the frequency
of 560 kc. and terminating the existing licenses theretofore
issued for Stations WIBO and WPCC. On appeal, the
Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia reversed
the Commission's decision upon the ground that it was
"in a legal sense arbitrary and capricious." 61 App.D.C.
315; 62 F. (2d) 854. This Court granted certiorari.
The action of the Commission was taken under § 9 of
the Radio Act of 192*1 (c. 169, 44 Stat. 1166), as amended
by § 5 of the Act of March 28, 1928, c. 263. 45 Stat. 373;

270

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

47 U.S.C. 89.1 The findings of fact upon which the Commission based its order included the following:
Gary, Indiana, about 30 miles from Chicago, is the
largest steel center in the world. It has a population of
approximately 110,000 and is located in what is known as
the Calumet region which has a populatioh of about
800,000, sixty per cent. of whom are foreign born and represent over fifty nationalities. Station WJKS is the only
radio station in Gary and the programs it broadcasts are
well designed to meet the needs of the foreign popula'Section 5 of the Act of March 28, 1928, 45 Stat. 373, is as follows:
"See. 5. The second paragraph of section 9 of the Radio Act of
1927 is amended to read as follows:
""It is hereby declared that the people of all the zones established by
section 2 of this Act are entitled to equality of radio broadcasting
service, both of transmission and of reception, and in order torprovide
said equality the licensing authority shall, as nearly as possible make
and maintain an equal allocation of broadcasting licenses, of bands of
frequency or wave lengths, of periods of time for operation, pnd of
station power, to each of said zones when and in sor far as there are
applications therefor; and shall make a fair and equitable allocation
of licenses, wave lengths, time for operation, and station power to each
of the States, the District of Columbia, the Territories and possessions
of the United States within each zone, according to population. The
licensing authority shall carry into effect the equality of broadcasting
service hereinbefore directed, whenever necessary or proper, by granting or refusing licenses or renewals of licenses, by changing periods of
time for operation, and by increasing or decreasing station power,
when applications are made for licenses or renewals of licenses: Protided, That if and when there is a lack of applications from apy zone
for the proportionate share of licenses, wave lengths, time of operation,
or station power to which such zone is entitled the ticensing authority
may issue licenses for the balance of the proportion not' applied for
from any zone, to applicants from other zones for a temporary period
of ninety days each, and shall specifically designate that said apportionment is only for said temporary period. Allocations shall be
charged to the State, District, Territory, or. possession wherein the
studio of the station is located and not where the transmitter is

located."

RADIO COMM'N v. NELSON BROS. CO.
266

271

Opinion of the Court.

tion. These programs include "broadcasts for Hungarian,
Italian, Mexican, Spanish, German, Russian, Polish,
Croatian, Lithuanian, Scotch and Irish people," tad "are
musical, educational and instructive in their nature and
stress loyalty to the community and the Nation." Programs are arranged and supervised "to stimulate community and racial origin pride and rivalry and to instruct in citizenship and American ideals and responsibilities." "Special safety prevention talks" are given for
workingmen, explaining the application of new safeguards
of various types of maehinery used in the steel mills. The
children's hour utilizes selections from various schools.
There are "good citizenship talks" weekly by civic leaders. The facilities of the station are made available to
the local police department and to all fraternal, charitable and religious organizations in the Calumet region,
without charge. Sunday programs consist mainly "of
church service broadcasts" including all churches and denominations desiring to participate. Although the Calumet area is served by a station at Fort Wayne and by
several stations in Chicago, Station WJKS "is the only
station which serves a substantial portion of the area with
excellent or even good service." While Station WJKS
"delivers a signal of sufficient strength to give good reception in its normal service area if not interfered with,
heterodyne and cross-talk interference exist to within
three miles of the transmitter and constant objection to
interference is found in the good service area of the station, particularly to the south, southeast and east." This
interference has increased during the past two years.
Station WIBO is operated by Nelson Brothers Bond &
Mortgage Company separately from its mortgage and
real estate business. It employs 55 persons and its total
monthly expenses average $17,000. In March, 1931, it
earned a net profit of $9,000. It represents a total cost
of $346,362.99 less a reserve for depreciation of $54,627.36,

272

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

and has been operated since April, 1925. Station WIBO
was licensed to 'share time with Station WPCC, the latter
being authorized to operate on Sundays during stated
hours and by agreement has operated on certain week
days in exchange for Sunday hours.
The licenses for Stations WIBO and WPCC, effective
from September 1, 1931, to March 1, 1932, were issued
upon the following condition: "This license is issued on
a temporary basis and subject to such action as the Commission may take after hearing on the application filed
by Station WJKS, Gary, Indiana, foi the f~equency 560
kc. No authority contained herein shall be constru; d
as a finding by the Federal Radio Commission that the
operation of this station is or will be in the public interest beyond the term hereof."
The programs broadcast by Station WIBO include a
large number of chain programs originating in the National Broadcasting network and are almost entirely com-'
mercial in their nature. The same general type of
programs broadcast by WIBO, 'including National Broad-casting chain programs, are received in the service area of
WIBO from many other stations located in the Chicago
district.
Station WPCC, owned by the North Shore Church, has
programs made up entirely of sermons, religious music
and talks relating to the work and interests of the church.
Contributions are solicited for the use of the church and
to advance the matters in which it is interested; it is not
used by other denominations or societies. "Other stations in Chicago, including WMBI, owned by the Moody
Bible Institute, devoting more time to programs of a religious nature than WPCC, are received in the service area
of that station."
"The State of Indiana is 2.08 units or 22 per cent. underquota in station assignments and the State of Illinois is
12.49 units or 55 per cent. over-quota in such assignments.

RADIO COMM'N v. NELSON BROS. CO.
266

273

Opinion of the Court.

The Fourth Zone, in which both States are located, is
21.00 units or 26 per cent. over-quota in- station assignments. The granting of this application, and deletivn of
WIBO and WPCC would reduce the over-quota status of
the State of Illinois and the Fourth Zone by .88 unit and
.45 unit, respectively, and would increase the quota- of
Indiana by .43 unit."
Summarizing the grounds of its decision, the Commission found:
" 1. The applicant station (WJKS) now renders an
excellent public service in the Calumet region and the
granting of this application would enable that station to
further extend and enlarge upon that service.
"2. The deletion of Stations WIBO and WPCC would
not deprive the persons within the service areas of those
stations of any type of programs not now received from
other stations.
"3. Objectionable interference is now experienced
within the service area. of WJKS through the operation of
other stations on the same and adjacent frequencies.
"4. The granting of this applicatiofn and deletion, of
Stations WIBO and WPCC would not increase interference within the good service areas of any other stations.
"'5. The granting of this application and deletion of
Stations WIBO and WPCC would work a more equitable
distribution of broadcasting facilities within the Fourth
Zone, in that there would be an increase in the radio
broadcasting facilities of Indiana which is now assigned
less than its share of such facilities and a decrease in the
radio broadcasting facilities of Illinois which is now assigned more than its share of such facilities.
"6. Public interest, convenience and/or necessity would
be served by the granting of this application."
The Court of Appeals was divided in opinion. The
majority pointed out that the Court had repeatedly held
that " it would not be consistent with the legislative policy
15450°-33--18

274

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

to equalize the comparative broadcasting facilities of the
various states or zones by unnecessarily injuring stations
already established which are rendering valuable service
to their natural- service areas "; and they were of opinion
that the evidence showed that Stations WIBO and
WPCC had been "serving public interest, convenience
and necessity certainly to as great an extent as the applicant station" and that "the conclusively established and
admitted facts" furnished no legal basis for the Commission's decision. The minority of the Court took the view
that the Court was substituting its own conclusions for
those of the Commission; that the Commission had ,acted
within its authority, and that its findings were sustained
by the evidence.
First. Respondents challenge the jurisdiction of this
Court. They insist that the decision of the Court of Appeals is not a 'judicial judgment'; that, for the purpose
of the appeal to it, the Court of Appeals is merely a part
of the machinery of the Radio Commission and that the
decision of the Court is an administrative decision. Respondents further insist that if this Court examines the
record, its decision "would not be a judgment, or permit
of a judgineht to be made in any lower court, but would
permit only consummation of the administrative function
of issuing or withholding a permit to operate the station."
Under § 16 of the Radio Act of 1927, the Court of
Appeals, on appeal from decisions of the Radio Commission, was directed to "hear, review, and determin6 the
appeal" upon the record made before the Commission,
and upon such additional evidence as the Court might
receive, and was empowered to "alter or revise the decision appealed from and enter such judgment as to it may
seem just." 44 Stat. 1169. This provision made the
Court "a superior and revising agency" in the administrative field and consequently its decision was not a judicial judgment reviewable by this Court. Federal Radio

RADIO COMM'N v. NELSON BROS. CO. 275
266

-Opinion of the Court.

Commission v. General Electric Co., 281 U.S. 464, 467.
The province of the Court of Appeals was found to be
substantially the-same as that which it had, until recently,
on appeals from administrative decisions of the Commissioner of Patents. While the Congress can confer upon
-the courts of the District of Columbia such administrative
authority, this Court cannot be invested with jurisdiction
of that character whether for the purpose of review or
otherwise. It cannot give decisions which are merely advisory, nor can it exercise functions.which are essentially
legislative or administrative. Id., pp. 468, 469. Keller
v. Potomac Electric Power Co., 261 U.S. 428, 442-444;
Postum Cereal Co. v. California Fig Nut Co., 272 U.S.
693, 700.
In the light of the dedision in the General Electric case,
supra, the Congress, by the Act of July 1, 1930, c. 788,
amended § 16 of the Radio Act of 1927 so as to limit the
reviewby the Court of Appeals. 46 Stat. 844; 47 U.S.C.
96.2 That review is now expressly limited to "questions
'By this amendment, § 16 (d) reads as follows:
"At the earliest, convenient time the court shall hear and determine
the appeal upon the record before it, and shall hAve power, upon such
record, to enter a judgment affirming or reversing the decision of the
commission, and, in event the court shall render a decision .and enter
an order reversing the decision of the commission, it shall remand the
case to the commission to carry out the judgment of the court: Provided, however, That the'review by the court shall be limited to
questions of law and that findings of fact by the commission, if supported by substantial evidence, shall be conclusive unless it shall
clearly appear that the findings of the commission are arbitrary or
capricious. The court's judgment shall be final, subject, however, to
review by the Supreme Court of the United States upon writ of certiorari on petition therefor under section 347 of title 2S of the
Judicial Code by appellant, by the -commission, or by any interested
party intervening in the appeal." 46 Stat. 844; 47 U.S.C. 96. In reporting this amendment, the Committee on the Merchant
Marine and Fisheries of the House of Representatives stated: "The
purpose of the amendment is to clarify the procedure on appeal to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

of law" and it is provided "that findings of fact by the
commission, if supported by substantial evidence, shall be
conclusive unless it shall clearly appear that the findings
of the commission are arbitrary or capricious." This limitation is in sharp contrast with the previous grant of
authority. No longer is the Court entitled to revise the
Commission's decision and to enter such judgment as the
Court may think just. The limitation manifestly demands judicial, as distinguished from administrative, review. Questions of law form the appropriate subject of
judicial determinations. Dealing with activities admittedly within its regulatory power, the Congress established the Commission as its instrumentality to provide
continuous and expert supervision and to exercise the administrative judgment essential in applying legislative
standards -to a host of instances. These standards the
Congress prescribed. The powers of the Commission
were definedi and definition is limitation. Whether the
Commission applies the legislative standards validly set
up, whether it acts within the authority conferred or goes
beyond it, whether its proceedings satisfy the pertinent
demands of due process, whether, in short, there is compliance with the legal requirements which flx the province
of the Commission and govern its action, are appropriate
questions for judicial decision. These are questions of
law upon which the Court is to pass. The provision that
the Commission's findings of fact, if supported by substantial evidence, shall be conclusive unless it clearly appears that the findings are arbitrary or capricious, cannot
be regarded as an attempt to vest in the Court an -authority to revise the action of the Commission from an adcourt from decisions of-the Federal Radio Commission, to more clearly
define the scope of the subject matter of such appeaL-, and to insure a
review of the decision of the Court of Appeals of the District of
Columbia-by the Supreme Court." H.R.Rep. No. 1665, 71st Coag.,
2d Sess., p. 2.

RADIO COMM'N v. NELSON BROS. CO. 277
266

Opinion of the Court.

ministrative standpoint andto make an administrative
judgment. A finding without substantial evidence., to
support it-an arbitrary or capricious finding--does violence to the law. It is without. the sanction of the authority conferred. And an inquiry into the facts before
the Commission, in order to ascertain whether its findings
are thus vitiated' belongs to the judicial province ana does
not trench upon, or involve the exercisa of, administrative
authority. Such an examination is not concerned with
the weight of evidence or with the wisdom or expediency
of the administrative action. Interstate Commerce Commission v. Illinois Central R. Co., 215 U.S. 452, 470;
Interstate Commerce Commission v. Union Pacific I. Co.,
222 U.S. 541, 547, 548; New England Divisions Case, 261
U.S. 184, 203, 204; Keller v. Potomac Electric Power Co.,
supra; Chicago Junction Ceie, 264 U.S. 258, 263, 265;
Silberscheinv. United States, 266 U.S. 221, 225; Ma-King
Products Co. v. Blair, 271 U.S. 479, 483; Federal TradeCommission v. Ktesner, 280 U.S. 19, 30; Tagg Bros. v.
United States, 280 U.S. 420, 442; Federal Trade Commis-c
sion v. Raladam Co., 283 U.S. 643, 654; Crowell v. Benson, 285 U.S. 22, 49, 50.
If the, questions of law thus presented were brought
before the Court by suit to restrain the enforcement of an
invalid administrative order, there could be -no question
as to the judicial character of the proceeding. But that
character is not altered by the., mere fact that remedy is
afforded by appeal. The controlling question is whether
the function to be exercised by the Court is a judicial
function, and, if so, it may be exercised on an authorized
appeal'from the decision of an administrative body. '.We
must not "be misled by a name, but look to the substance
and intent of the proceeding." United States v. Ritchie,
17 How. 525, 534; Stephens v. Cherokee Nation, 174 U.S.
445, 479; Federal Trade Commission v. Eastman Co., 274
U.S. 619, 623; Old Colony Trust Co. v. Commissioner, 279

278

OCTOBER TERM 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

U.S. 716, 722-724. "It is not important," we said in Old
Colony Trust Co. v. Commissioner, supra, "whether such,
a proceeding was originally begun by an administrative or
executive determination, if when it comes to the court,
whether legislative or constitutional, it calls for the exercise of only the judicial power of the court upon which
jurisdiction has been conferred by law." Nor is it necessary that the proceeding to be judicial should be one entirely de novo., When on the appeal, as here provided,
the parties come before the Court of Appeals to obtain its
decision upon the legal question whether the Commission
has acted within the limits of its authority, and to have
their rights, as established by law, determined accordingly,
there is a case or controversy which is the appropriate
subject of the exercise of judicial power. The provision
that, in case the Court reverses the decision of the Commission, "it shall remand the case to the Commission to
carry out the judgment of the Court" means no more
than that the Commission in its further action is to respect
and follow the Court's determination of the questions of
law. The procedure thus contemplates a judicial judgment by the Court of Appeals and this Court has jurisdiction, on certiorari, to review that judgment in order to
determine whether or not it is erroneous. Osborn v.
United States Bank, 9 Wheat. 738, 819; In re PacificRailway Commission, 32 Fed. 241, 255; Federal Trade Commission v. Klesner, supra; Federal Trade Commission v.
Raladam Co., supra; Old Colony Trust Co. v. Commissioner, supra.
Second. In this aspect, the questions presented are (1)
whether the Commission, in making allocations of frequencies or wave lengths to States within a zone, has
power to license operation by a station in an 'underquota' State on a freauency thretoiore assigned to a
station in an 'over-quota State, and to terminate the
license of the latter station; (2) whether, if the Commis-

RADIO COMM'N v. NELSON BROS. CO.
266

279

Opinion of the Court.

sion has this power, its findings of fact sustain its order in
the instant case, in the light of the statutory requirements
for the exercise of the power, and, if so, whether these
findings are supported by substantial evidence; and (3)
whether, in its procedure, the Commission denied to the
respondents any substantial right.
(1) No question is presented as to the power of the
Congress, in its regulation of interstate commerce, to regulate radio communications. No state lines divide the
radio waves, and national regulation is not only appro-'
priate but essential to the efficient use of radio facilities.
In view of the limited number of available broadcasting
frequencies, the Congress has authorized allocation. and
licenses. The Commission has been set up as the lcensing authority and invested with broad powers of distribution in order to secure a reasonable equality of opportunity in radio transmission and reception.
The Radio Act divides the United States into five zones,
and Illinois.and Indiana are in the Fourth Zone. § 2;
47 U.S.C. 82. Except as otherwise provided in the Act,
the Commission "from time to time, aWspublic convenience, interest, or necessity requires," is directed to "assign bands of frequency or wave lengths to the various
classes of stations and assign frequencies or wave lengths
for each individual station and determine the power which
each station shall use and the time during which it may
operate,'t and to "determine the location of classes of
stations or individual stations." § 4 (c) (d); 47 U.S.C.
84. By § 9, as amended in 1928, the Congress declared
that the people of all the zoncs "are entitled to equality
of radio broadcasting service, both of transmission and of
reception," and that "in order to provide said equality
the licensing authurity shall as nearly as possible make
and maintain an equal allocation of broadcasting licenses,
of bands of frequency or wave lengths, of periods of time
for operation, and of station power, to each of said zones

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

when and in so far as there are applications therefor";
and the Commission is further directed to "make a fair
and equitable allocation of licenses, wave lengths, time
for operation and station power to each of the States, . . .
within each zone, according to population "; and the Commission is to "carry into effect the equality of broadcasting service, . . . whenever necessary or proper, by grant-

ing or refusing licenses or renewals of licenses, by
changing periods of time for operation and by increasing
or decreasing station power when applications are made
8
for licenses or renewals of licenses." § 9; 47 U.S.C. 89.
By its General Order No. 40, of August 30, 1928,' the
Commission established a basis for the equitable distribution of broadcasting facilities in accordance with the Act.
That order, as amended, provided for the required apportionment by setting aside a certain number of frequencies
for use by stations operating on clear channels for distant
service, and other frequencies for simultaneous use by
stations operating in different zones, each station serving
a regional area, and still others for use by stations serving
city or local areas. These three classes of stations have
become known as "clear, regional, and local channel stations." A new allocation of frequencies, power and hours
of operation, was made in November, 1928,' to conform
to the prescribed classification. It was found to be impracticable to determine the total value of the three
classes of assignments so that it could be ascertained
whether a State was actually "under or over quota on
total radio facilities," and the Commission developed a
"unit system" in order "to evaluate stations, based on
type of channel, power and hours of operation, and all
other considerations required by law." In June 1930, the
'See Note 1.

'Report, 1928, Federal Radio Commission, pp. 17, 48.
'Id., pp. 18, 215-218.

RADIO COMM'N v. NELSON BROS. CO
266

281

Opinion of the Court.

Commission issued its General Order No. 926 specifying
the "unit value" of stations of various types, and in this
way the Commission was able to make a tabulation by
zones and States showing the "units due," based on estimated population, and the" units assigned." This action
called for administrative judgment, and no ground is
shown for assailing it. It appears that, with respect to
total broadcasting facilities, Indiana is "under quota"
and Illinois is "over quota" in station assignments.
Respondents contend that the Commission has departed from the principle set forth in its General Order
No. 92, because it has ignored the fact that, both Indiana
and Illinois being under quota in regional station assignments, Indiana has more of such assignments in proportion to its quota than has Illinois, and by ordering the
deleticn of regional stations in Illinois in favor of an Indiana station, the Commission has violated the command
of Congress, by increasing the under quota condition of
Illinois in favor of the already superior condition of Indiana with respect to stations of that type. We find in the
Act no command with the import upon which respondents
insist. The command is that there shall be a "fair and
equitable allocation of licenses, wave lengths, time for
operation and station power to each of the States within
each zone." It cannot be said that this demancded equality between States with respect to every type of station.
Nor does it appear that the Commission ignored any of
the facts shown by the evidence. The fact that there was
a disparity in regional station assignments, and that Indiana had more of this type than Illinois, could- not be regarded as controlling. In making its "fair and equitable
allocations," the Commission was entitled and required to
consider all the broadcasting facilities assigned to the respective States, and all the advantages thereby enjoyed,
'Report, 1930, Federal Radio Commission, pp. 4, 24.

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 US.

and to determine whether, in view of all the circumstances
of distribution, a more equitable adjustment would be
effected by the granting of the application of Station
WJKS and the deletion of Stations WIBO .and WPCC.
To accomplish its purpose, the statute authorized the
Commission tO effect the desired adjustment "by granting or refusing licenses or renewals of licenses, by changing periods of time for operation, and by increasing or
decreasing station power." This broad authority plainly
extended to the deletion of existing stations if that course
was found to be necessary to produce an equitable result.
The context, as already observed, shows clearly that the
Congress did not authorize the Connission to act arbitrarily or capriciously in making a redistribution,,but only
in a reasonable manner to attain a legitimate end. That
'the Congress had the power to give this authority to delete
stations, in view of the limited radio facilities available
and the confusion that would result from interferences, is
not open to question.' Those, who operated broadcasting
stations had no right superior to the exercise of this
power of regulation. They necessarily made their investments and their contracts in the light of, and subject to,
this paramount authority. This Court has had frequent
occasion to observe that the power of Congress in the
regulation of interstate commerce is not fettered by th6
necessity of maintaining existing arrangements which
would conflict with the execution of its policy, as such a
restriction would place the regulation in the hands of
private individuals and withdraw from the control of
Congress so much of the field as they might choose by
prophetic discernment to bring within the range of their
enterprises. Union Bridge Co. v. United States,-204 U.S.
364, 400, 401; PhiladelphiaCompany v. Stimson, 223 U.S.
605, 634, 638; Philadelphia,Baltimore & Washington R.
Co. v. Schubert, 224 U.S. 603, 613, 614; Greenleaf John-

RADIO COMM'N v. NELSON BROS. CO.
266

283

Opinion of the Court.

son Lumber Co.,\v. Garrison, 237 U.S. 251, 260; Continental Insurance Co. v.-United States, 259 U.S. 156,171;
Sproles v. Binford, 286 U.S. 374, 390, 391; Stephenson v.
Binford, 287 U.S. 251, 276; City of New York v. Federal
Radio Commission, 36 F. (2d) 115; 281 U.S. 729; American Bond & Mortgage Co. v. United States, 52 F. (2d)
318; 285 U.S. 538; Trinity Methodist Church, South v.
Federal Radio Commission, 61 App.D.C. 311; 62 F. (2d)
850; 288 U.S. 599.
Respondents urge that the Commission has misconstrued the Act of Congress by apparently treating allocation between States within a zone as subject to the mandatory direction of the Congress relating to the zones
themselves. Respondents say that as to zones Congress
requires an "equal" allocation, but as between States
only "a fair and equitable" allocation, and that the provision "for granting or refusing licenses or renewals of
licenses " relates to the former and not to the latter. It
'is urged that this construction is fortified by the proviso
in § 9 as to temporary permits for zones.' We think that
this attempted distinction is without basis. The Congress was not seeking in either case' an exact mathematical division." I It was recognized that this might be
physically impossible. The equality sought was not a
mere matter of geographical delimitation. The concern
of the Congress was with the interests of the people,that they might have a reasonable equality of opportunity
in radio transmission and reception, and this involved an
equitable distribution not only asbetween zones but as
between States as well. And to construe the authority
conferred, in relation to the deletion of stations, as being
applicable only to an apportionment between zones and
'See Note 1.
."Report of the Committee on the Merchant Marine and Fisheries,
H.RRep. No. 800, 70th Cong. 1st seas., p. 3.

284

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

not between States, would defeat the manifest purpose of
the Act.
We conclude that the Commission, in making allocations of frequencies to States within a zone, has the power
to license operation by a station in an under-quota State
on a frequency theretofore assigned to a station in an
over-quota State, provided the Commission does not act
arbitrarily or capriciously.
(2) Respondents contend that the deletion of their stations was arbitrary, in that they were giving good service,
that they had not failed to comply with any of the regulations of the Commission, and that no proceeding had
been instituted for the revocation of their licenses as provided in § 14 of the Act. 47 U.S.C., 94. That section
permits revocation of partic'ular licenses by reason of
false statements or for failure to operate as the license
required or to observe any of the restrictions and conditi-ns imposed by law or by the Commission's regulations.
There is, respondents say, no varrant in the Act for a
"forfeiture" such as that here attempted. But the question here is not with respect to revocation under § 14, but
as to the equitable adjustment of allocations den'qnded
by § 9. The question is not simply as to the service rendered by,particular stations, independently considered,
but as to relative facilities,-the apportionment as between States. At the time of the proceeding in question
respondents were operating under licenses running from
September 1, 1931, to March 1, 1932, and which provided
in terms that they were issued "on a temporary basis and
subject to such action as the Commission may take after
hearing on the application filed by Station WJKS" for
the frequency 560 kc. Charged with the duty of making
an equitable distribution as between States, it was appropriate for the Commission to issue temporary licenses with
such a reservation in order to preserve its freedom to act
in the light of its decision on that application. And when

RADIO COMM'N v. NELSON BROS. CO. 285
266

Opinion of the Court.

decision was reached, there was nothing either in the provisions of § 14, or otherwise in the Act, which precluded
the Commission from terminating the licenses in accordance with the reservation stipulated.
In granting licenses the Commission is required to act
"as public convenience, interest or necessity requires."
This criterion is not to be interpreted as setting up a standard so indefinite as to confer an unlimited power. Compare N.Y. Central Securities Co. v. United States, 287
U.S. 12, 24. The requirement is to be interpreted by its
context, by the nature of radio transmission and reception, by the scope, character and quality of services, and,
where an equitable adjustment between States is in view,
by the relative advantages in service which will be enjoyed
by the public through the distribution of facilities. In
making such an adjustment the equities of existing stations undoubtedly demand consideration. They are not
to be the 'victims of official favoritism. But the weight of
the evidence as to these equities and all other pertinent
facts is for the determination of the Commission in
exercising its authority to make a "fair and equitable
allocation."
In the instant'case the Commission was entitled to
consider the advantages enjoyed by the people of Illinois
under the assignments to that State, the services rendered
by the respective stations, the reasonable demands of the
people of Indiana, and the special requirements of radio
service at Gary. The Commission's findings show that all
these matters were considered. Respondents say that
there had been no material change in conditions since the
general reallocation of 1928. But the Commission was
not bound to maintain that allocation if it appeared that
a fair and equitable distribution made a change 'necessary.
Complaint is also made that the Commission did not
adopt the recommendations of its examiner. But the
Commission had the responsibility of decision and was

286

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 US.

not only at liberty but was required to reach its own conclusions upon the evidence.
We are of the opinion that the Commission's findings
of fact, which we summarized at the outset, support its
decision, and an examination of the record leaves no room
for doubt that these findings rest upon substantial evidence.
(3) Respondents raise a further question with respect
to the procedure adopted by the Commission. In January, 1931, the Commission issued its General Order No.
1021 relating to applications from under quota States.
This order provided, among other things, that "applications from under-quota States in zones which have already allocated to them their pro rata share of radio facilities should be for a facility already in use in that zone by
an over-quota State," and that, since the Commission
had allocated frequencies for the different classes of stations, "applications should be for frequencies set aside by
the Commission for the character of station applied for."
Respondents insist that these requirements foreclosed the
exercise of discretion by the Commission by permitting
the applicant to select the station and the facilities which
it desired;, that this "naked action of the applicant"
precluded the Commission from" giving general consideration to the field" and from making that fair and
equitable allocation which is the primary command of the
statute. We think that this argument misconstrues General Order No. 102. That order is merely a rule of procedural convenience, requiring the applicant to frame a
precise proposal and thus to present a definite issue. The
order in no way derogates from the authority of the Commission. While it required the applicant to state the facilities it desires, there was nothing to prevent respondents
from contesting the applicant's 'demand upon the ground
-

'Report, 1931, Federal Radio Commission, p. 91.

LOS ANGELES GAS CO. v. R.R. COMM'N.
266

287

Syllabus.

that other facilities were available and should be granted
in place of those which the applicantdesignated. If such
a contention had been made, there would have been no
difficulty in bringing before the Commission other stations
whose interests might be drawn in question. There is no
showing that the respondents were prejudiced by the operation of the order in question.
Respondents complain that they were not heard in
argument before the Commission. They were heard before the examiner and the evidence they offered was
considered by the Commission. The exceptions filed by
the applicant to the examiner's report were filed and
served 'upon the respondents in August, 1931, and the
decision of the Commission was made in. the following
October. While the request of the applicant for oral
argument was denied, it does not appear that any such
request was made by respondents or that they sought
any other hearing than that which was accorded.
We find no ground for denying effect to the Commission's action. The judgment of the Court of Appeals is
reversed and the cause is remanded with direction to
affirm the decision of the Commission.
Reversed.
LOS ANGELES GAS & ELECTRIC CORP. v. RAILROAD COMMISSION OF CALIFORNIA ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA

No. 412. Argued February 7, 8, 1933.-Decided May 8, 1933
1. The legislative discretion implied in the rate-making power embraces the methods of reaching the legislative determination as
2well as the determination itself. P. 304.
2. While the method used in fixing rates of a public utility may have
definite bearing upon the validity of the result, the Court is not

