CASES ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.

CLARK v. UNITED STATES
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE

EIGHTH CIRCUIT

No. 531. Argued February 6, 7, 1933.-Decided March 13, 1933
1. Concealment or misstatement by a juror upon a voir dire examination is punishable as a contempt if its tendency and design are
to obstruct the processes of justice. So held where the juror, on
being asked to state her past employments, mentioned several but
deliberately concealed an employment by the defendant, and on
being questioned as to bias,, replied falsely that she had none,all with intent to gain a place in the box and thwart the prosecution. P. 10.
2. The gist of the offense is neither the concealment nor the false
swearing, but their use to gain acceptance as a juror in the case
and under cover of that relation to obstruct the course of justice.
P. 11.
3. As respects punishment for contempt, deceit practiced by a talesman in order that he may become a juror-part of the courtand influence or prevent a verdict, is to be distinguished from.
deceit practiced by a witness in testifying. P. 11.
4. A contemptuous obstruction to judicial power is none the less
contempt when aggravated by perjury. P. 11.
5, The privilege from exposure of his votes and arguments in the
jury room does not belong to a juror Who became such by a fraud
on the court. P. 12.
6. A statement by a juror of how she voted, made in her answer to
an information for contempt,-held a waiver to that extent of the
privilege against disclosure. P. 18.
15450°--.-.--1

1

OCTOBER TERM, 1932. !
Argument for Petitioner.

289 U.S.

7. Evidence of a juror's intentional concealment on voir dire of her
disqualification by previous employment by defendant, and evidence of her arguments with other jurors while the trial was going
on, and of her vote, revealed by her own answer in the contempt
proceedings, held sufficient to overcome the claim of privilege and
let in evidence of her conduct in the jury room after the case had
been submitted. P. 18.
8. The rule that the testimony of a juror is not admissible for the
impeachment of his verdict bears no relation to the privilege of
jurors against exposure of their arguments and votes in the jury
room. P. 18.
9. The doctrine allowing purgation by the oath of the contemnor as
a bar to prosecution for contempt, is obsolete. P. 19.
10. There was no denial to the petitioner of a fair notice of hearing,
nor any variance of substance between the information and the
findings, in this case. P. 19.
61 F. (2d) 695, affirmed.

CERTIORAM, 287 U.S. 595, to review the affirmance of a
conviction of criminal contempt. See 1 F.Supp. 747.
Mr. Sigurd Ueland for petitioner.
The District Court denied due process of law in proceeding to trial on the return day named in the rule to

show cause.
There was a variance between the information and the
proofs.
A juror's failure to volunteer information on his voir
dire is not a contempt. If a prospective juror sworn to

make "true answers" complies with his oath, how can it
be said he has deceived the court?
It is the function of the examiner to question the juror

or the witness Until each material fact is either affirmed or
denied. This is so notwithstanding the fact that the witness is customarily sworn to tell the "whole truth."

Perjury by a juror on his voir dire is not a contempt
unless contumacy is shown. A crime committed in the
court room may or may not be a contempt. To constitute the act a contempt it must interfere With the order

CLARK v. UNITED STATES,
Argument for Petitioner.

and decorum in the court room. Otherwise the wrongdoer must be indicted and tried by a jury. Ex parte
Robinson, 19 Wall. 505; Beale, Contempt of Court, 21
Harv.L.Rev. 161; Ex parte Hudgings, 249 U.S. 378;
United States v. Appel, 211 Fed. 495; State v. Muse,
200 Wis. 460.
For perjury to constitute contempt of court, the testimony must be of such a character that the judge before
whom it is given can know judicially that it is false.
Hegelaw v. State, 24 Ohio App. 103; People v. Stone, 181
Ill. App. 475; People v. Hille, 192 Ill. App. 139; Riley v.
Wallace, 188 Ky. 471.
A conviction of contempt for committing perjury can
not be sustained where based solely upon circumstantial
evidence.
Criminal contempt is an "offense against the United
States." Cooke v. United States, 267 U.S. 517; Ex parte
Grossman, 267 U.S. 87. The defendant can be convicted
only by proof beyond a reasonable doubt, and can not
be compelled to testify against himself. United States v.
Goldman, 277 U.S. 229; Gompers v. Buck's Stove &
Range Co., 221 U.S. 418, 444; Michaelson v. United
States, 266 U.S. 42, 66. It is barred by the Statute of
Limitations with respect to offenses not capital. Gompers
v. United States, 233 U.S. 604.
The rule of proof in perjury was applied by this Court
in Hammer v. United States, 271 U.S. 620, to a case of
subornation. We are unable to see why it should not
also be applied in any criminal proceeding where perjury
must be shown to sustain the charge.
The statements and vote of a petit juror during the
deliberations of the jury are privileged. Wigmore on
Evidence, §§ 2285, 2346, 2348-2354; Jones on Evidence,
2d ed., § 2212; Hughes on Evidence, p. 301; Woodward v.
Leavitt, 107 Mass. 453; Hewitt v. Chapman, 49 Mich. 4;
Matter of Cochran, 237 N.Y. 336.

4

OCTOBER TERM, .1932.
Argument for the United States.

289 U.S.

Petitioner's sworn answer and positive testimony that
she did not intend to mislead the court, and that she
answered truthfully with respect to her freedom from
bias, were conclusive. "If the party can clear himself
upon oath, he is discharged; but, if perjured, may be
prosecuted for the perjury." 4 Blackstone's C6mmentaries 287; United States v. Shipp, 203 U.S. 563; Boyd v.
Glucklich, 116 Fed. 131; Cordey v. United States, 59 F.
(2d) 929, 935; Hughes v. People, 5 Colo. 436; Fishback
v. State, 131 Ind. 304; In re Chadwick, 109 Mich. 588;
Ex parte Nelson, 251 Mo. 63; Percival v. State, 45 Neb.
741; State v. New Mexican Printing Co., 25 N.M. 102.
Mr. Whitney' North Seymour, with whom Solicitor
General Thacher, Assistant Attorney General Dodds, and
Messrs. W. MarvinSmith and Win. H. Riley, Jr., were on
the brief, for the United States.
The trial court did not deny the defendant due process
by proceeding to trial on the return day of the rule to
show cause.
The defendant was not convicted of a contempt with
which she was not charged; and her conduct constituted
one contempt.
Acts tending to obstruct the performance by the court
of its judicial duty, whether or not they involve any,
physical affront to the court or immediate disruption of its
proceedings, may constitute contempt. The power to
punish for contempt has been extended both in this
country and in England to new types of cases as they
arose, the inquiry in each instance being merely whether
there had been a tendency to. interfere with the administration of justice. See Ex parte Hudgings, 249 U.S. 378,
383; Sincair v. United States, 279 U.S. 749; Oswald,
Contempt of Court, pp. 5, 6; Helmore v. Smith, 35 Ch.
Div. 449; In re Johnson, 20 Q.B.D. 68, 74; 1 Bailey,
Habeas Corpus, § 63.

CLARK v. UNITED STATES.
Argument for the United States.

Abuse of a court by deception is obstructive of the
administration of justice and is a punishable contempt.
Lord v. Veazie, 8 How. 250, 255; Cleveland v. Chamberlain, 1 Black 419, 426. So where witnesses lave concealed material facts or have falsified their testimony.
In these cases it has been deemed unnecessary to demonstrate actual perjury. The basis of the charge is that
the court has been imposed upon and hampered in the
conduct of its affairs. United States v. Dachis, 36 F.
(2d) 601; United States v. Karns, 27 F. (2d) 453, 33 id.
489, cert. den., 280 U.S. 592; Bowles v. United States,
44 F. (2d) 115, 50 id. 848, cert. den., 284 U.S. 648; Ex
parte Steiner, 202 Fed. 419; In re Michaels, 194 Fed. 552.
Mere submission to examination has been held not to
be a sufficient regard for the demands of an orderly sqd
ministration of justice, where the witness has displayed a
-disposition to evade frank answers and to withhold the
trtith. See Haimsahn v. United States, 2 F. (2d) 441;
In re Bronstein, 182 Fed. 349; In re Fellerman, 149 Fed.
244; In re Gitkin, 164Fed. 71; In re Schulman, 177 Fed.
191; Loubriel'v. United States, 9 F. (2d) 807; O'Connell v. United States, 40 F. (2d) 201, 204,.cert. granted,
281 U.S. 716, dismissed pursuant to stipulation; Lang V.
United States, 55 F. (2d) 922, cert., dismissed as improvidently granted, 286 U.S. 523.
Similar results are reached by a number of state courts
in circumstances that disclose interference with the administration of justice by falsification of facts or by failure to disclose information which should have been presented. Gibson v. Tilton, 1 Bland 352 (Md.); Welch v.
Barber, 52 Conn. 147, 155-156; State v. Moody, 47 S.D.
111; Nunns v. County Court, 188 App. Div. 424.
The fact that witnesses may not volunteer unresponsive
information furnishes no standard for the duty of a prospective juror. In a voir dire examination conducted by

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

the court, the facilities of counsel who have studied and
prepared the case are not involved. Cf. Pearcy v. Michigan Mutual Life Ins. Co., 111 Ind. 59.
Whether the false swearing amounted to perjury or not
was immaterial. The traditional limitation upon the
mode of proof of perjury seems to have no proper place
in such a contempt proceeding.
The testimony of defendant's fellow jurors concerning
her actions and utterances in the jury ro6m after the case
had been submitted was properly received in evidence to
show her wilful purpose. People ex rel. Nunns v. County
Court, 188 App. Div. 424; McDonald v. Pless, 238 U.S.
264, 269. Distinguishing Matter of Cochran, 237 N.Y.
336.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The petitioner, Genevieve A. Clark, has been adjudged
guilty of a criminal contempt in that with intent to obstruct justice she gave answers knowingly misleading and
others knowingly false in response to questions affecting
her qualifications as a juror. 1 F.Supp. 747.
The conviction by the District Court was affirmed by
the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit, the
proceeding being remanded, however, to correct an error
in the sentence. 61 F. (2d) 695. A writ of certiorari
brings the case here.
In September, 1931, there came on for trial in the
United States District Court for the District of Minnesota an indictment which had been returned against; William B. Foshay and others charging them with the use
of the mails in furtherance of a scheme to defraud. The
petitioner was one of the panel of jurors summoned to
attend. She did not know when the summons came to
her for what case she had been called, and telephoned

CLARK v. UNITED STATES.

7

Opinion of the Court.

a sister, Mrs. Brown, -that she would like to be excused.
She was advised by her sister, who had fnade inquiry
of the Clerk of the Court, that excuses, if there were any,
would have to be presented to the judge. At the same
time- she was informed that the trial for which she had
been summoned was the Foshay trial, and that she would
probably not be accepted as a juror since she had been
employed by the Foshay Company, a corporation with
which the indicted men had been connected as officers.
On the day appointed for the trial the petitioner, in
company with her husband, reported at the court room.
The District Judge examined the members of the panel
as to their qualifications for service. While the examination was going on, the petitioner stated to several women
on the panel that she wished to serve on -the jury, that
for this she had a special reason, and that she was afraid
her former employment by the Foshay Company would
disqualify her; that she, had worked for the company as a
stenographer and typist for about two weeks in the summer of 1929, but did not know or come in contact with any
of the defendants personally.
Her service as stenographer and typist was not the only
tie of friendliness that linked her to the Foshay firm.
There were other contacts or relations that are not without significance, though less direct and personal. Until
her marriage in 1922, she had been employed with the
title of assistant cashier in a bank at St. Paul, of which
Mr. Clark was then the president. Foshay in those years
was a customer of the bank as depositor and borrower.
Mr. Clark resigned as president in 1925, but his business
relations with Foshay continued in the years that followed.
Letters that passed between them are printed in the
record. The tone is cordial and almost intimate. True,
there is nothing to show that the friendly relations had

spread to the petitioner. She denies that she had any

8

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

acquaintance with Foshay or his associates, and the District Court by its findings has accepted her denial. It is
next to impossible, however, that her husband, who was
with her in the court room, had refrainied from telling her
of his own friendship for one of the prisoners at the bar.
The petitioner, upon being called to the jury box, was
questioned under oath by the judge presiding at the trial.
She was asked whether she had ever been in any business
of any kind. She answered, "I have been a stenographer
before my marriage, yes." She was asked in what kind of
business she had worked. She answered, "Well, I did
some banking and some real estate and insurance, and I
was with an automobile concern, with a Nash agency."
Finally she was asked whether she felt that her mind was
free from bias, and whether if accepted as a juror she
would be able and willing to base her Verdict on the evidence and the law as given to her by the court. To those
inquiries she answered that her mind was clear of bias,
and that the law and the evidence would govern her in
arriving at a verdict.
The petitioner after thus testifying became a member
of the jury, which was thereupon complete. The trial
which followed lasted eight weeks. Two officers, a man
and A woman, were in charge of the jury from the beginning to the end. During the first week of the trial,
the petitioner made the remark to several of her fellow
jurors that she regarded Mr. Foshay as a victim of circumstances, that he had gone to New York inthe fall of
1929 to borrow $18,000,000, but that, because of the stock
market crash, had come back without a dollar. When
asked by a juror where she had procured that information,
which was not supported by the evidence, she said that
it was from a newspaper which she had read before the:
trial. Later on she gave expression to dissatisfaction with
the Government because of the way the soldiers were
treated after the war.

CLARK v. UNITED STATES.

9

Opinion of the Court.

During the deliberations of the jury, after the case was
finally submitted, she announced that since the prosecuting attorney had been unable to convince her of the guilt
of the accused, the other jurors could hardly be expected
to do so. At times she placed her hands over her ears
when other jurors tried to reason with her, and argument
became useless because she was unwilling to reply. She
said of a witness for the Government that he had given
perjured evidence in the South in an attempt to convict
an innocent man. This information had come to her in
the course of a conversation with her husband who had
seen her at her hotel, in the presence of a bailiff, while
the trial was under way. After being kept together for a
week, the jury was discharged because unable to agree.
The votes of eleven were for conviction. The single vote
for acquittal was cast by the petitioner.
On November 4, 1931, the Government filed an information in support of a rule to show cause why the petitioner should not be punished for a criminal contempt.
The information charges that her answers upon the voir
dire examination were wilfully and corruptly false, and
that the effect of her misconduct had been to hinder and
obstruct the trial., In response to the rule to show cause
the defendant filed an answer denying the misconduct,
and alleging that her vote for acquittal had been dictated
by her conscience. There was a full and patient hearing
by a District Court of two judges. The court found the
facts as they have been stated in this opinion. It drew
from them the conclusion that the juror had obstructed
the administration of justice, when examined on her voir
dire, by "deliberately and intentionally" concealing the
fact that she had been employed during the summer of
1929 by the Foshay Company. It drew the conclusion
also that.she had obstructed the administration of justice
by stating falsely that she was free from bias and that
her verdict would be based only upon the evidence as

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 US.

introduced and the law as given by the court. For the
contempt thus adjudged there was a sentence of imprisonment and fine.
1. Concealment or misstatement by a juror upon a voir
dire examination is punishable as a contempt if its
tendency and design are to obstruct the processes of
justice.
There- was concealment by the petitioner, and that
wilful and deliberate. She had been asked to state the
kinds of work that she had been doing in other years.
She counted off a few, and checked herself at the very
point -where the count, if completed, would be likely to
bar her from the box. There is no room for the excuse of
oversight or negligence. She had been warned that disclosure would lead to challenge and rejection. With her
mind full of the warning she told the part truth that was
useless, and held back the other part that had significance
and value. Whether this was perjury or false swearing,
there is no occasion to inquire. It was a deliberate
endeavor to thwart the process of inquiry, and to turn
a trial into a futile form.
Added4o concealment there was positive misstatement.
The petitioner stated to the, court that her mind was free
from bias. The evidence is persuasive that it was hostile
to the Government. Bias is to be gathered from the disingenuous concealment which kept her in the box. She
was intruding into a relation for which she believed
herself ineligible, and intruding with a motive. The only
plausible explanation is a preconceived endeavor to
uphold the cause of the defendants and save them from
their doom. Bias, thus revealed at the beginning, is confirmed by everything that followed. While the trial was
still in progress, she argued with her fellow jurors that
Foshay was a hapless victim of circumstances too strongfor him, and went outside the evidence, quoting statements in a newspaper to win them to her view. After the

CLARK v. UNITED STATES.
1

Opinion of the Court.

trial was over and deliberations had begun, she waved
aside all argument and closed her ears to the debate. She
had closed her mind to it before.
"An obstruction to the performance of judicial duty
resulting from an act done in the presence of the court
is . . . the characteristic upon which the power to punish

for contempt must rest." White, C. J., in' Ex parte Hudgings, 249 U.S. 378, 383. The petitioner is not condemned
for concealment, though concealment has been proved.
She is not condemned for false swearing though false
swearing has been proved. She is condemned for that
she made use of false swearing and concealment as the
means whereby to accomplish her acceptance as a. juror,
and under cover of that relation to obstruct the course
of justice. There is a distinction not to be ignored between deceit by a witness and deceit by a talesman. A
talesman when accepted as a juror becomes a part or
member of the court. In re Savin, 131 U.S. 267; United
States v. Dachis, 36 F. (2d) 601. The judge who examines
on the voir dire is engaged in the process of organizing
the court. If the answers to the questions are wilfully
evasive or knowingly untrue the talesman, when accepted,
is a juror in name only. His relation to the court and
to the parties is tainted in its origin; it is a mere pretense and sham. What was sought to be attained was
the choice of an impartial arbiter. What happened was
the intrusion of a partisan defender. If a kinsman of
one of the litigants had gone into the jury room disguised as the complaisant juror, the effect would have
been no different. The doom -of mere sterility was on
the trial from the beginning.
The books propound the question whether perjury is
contempt, and answer it with nice distinctions. Perjury
by a witness has been thought to be not enough where
the obstruction to judicial power is only that inherent in
the wrong of testifying falsely. Ei parteHudgings, supra.

12

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

For offenses of that order the remedy by indictment is
appropriate and adequate. On the other hand, obstruction to judicial power will not lose the quality of contempt though one of its aggravations be the commission
of perjury. Cf. In re Ulmer, 208 Fed. 461; United States
v. Appel, 211 Fed. 495; United States v. Karns, 27 F. (2d)
453; United States v. Dachis, 36 F. (2d.) 601; Lang v.
United States, 55 F. (2d) 922; 286 U.S. 523; United
States v. McGovern, 60 F. (2d) 880. We must give heed
to all the circumstances, and of these not the least important is the relation to the court of the one charged
as a contemnor. Deceit by an attorney may be punished as a contempt if the deceit is an abuse of the functions of his office (Bowles v. United States, 50 F. (2d)
848, 851; United States v. Ford, 9 F. (2d) 990), and
that apart from its punishable quality if it had been the
act of some one else. A talesman, sworn as a juror, becomes, like an attorney, an officer of the court, and must
submit to like restraints. The petitioner blurs the picture when she splits her misconduct into parts, as if each
were a separate wrong to be separately punished. What
is punished is misconceived unless conceived of as a unit,
the abuse of an official relation by concealment and deceit.
Some of her acts or none of them may be punishable as
crimes. The result is all one as to her responsibility here
and now. She has trifled with the court of which she was
a part, and made its processes a mockery. This is contempt, whatever it may be besides. Sinclair v. United
States, 279 U.S. 749; In re Savin, 131 U.S. 267.
2. The admission of testimony as to the conduct of the
petitioner during the deliberations of the jury was not a
denial or impairment of any lawful privilege.
The books suggest a doctrine that the arguments and
votes of jurors, the media concludendi, are secrets, protected from disclosure unless the privilege is waived.
What is said upon the subject in the adjudicated cases, is

CLARK v. UNITED STATES.
1

Opinion of the Court.

dictum rather than decision. See Woodward v. Leavitt,
107 Mass. 453, 460; cf. Matter of Cochran, 237 N.Y.
336, 340; 143 N.E. 212; People ex rel. Nunns v. County
Court, 188 App. Div. (N.Y.) 424, 430; 176 N.Y.S. 858.
Even so, the dicta are significant because they bear with
them the implications of an immemorial tradition. The
doctrine is developed, and the privilege broadly stated,
in the writings of a learned author. Wigmore, Evidence,
(2d ed.) vol. 5, § 2346. It has recognition to some extent
by other authors of repute (Hughes, Evidence, p. 301;
Jones, Commentaries on Evidence, 2d ed., § 2212; Chamberlayne, Evidence, vol. 5, § 3707), but in a way that has
confused it with something very different, the competency
of witnesses to testify in impeachment of a verdict. What
concerns us at the moment is the privilege alone. There
will be need to recur later to the rule as to impeachment.
For the origin of the privilege we are referred to ancient
usage, and for its defense to public policy. Freedom of
debate might be stifled and independence of thought
checked if jurors were made to feel that their arguments
and ballots were to be freely published to the world. The
force of these considerations is not to be gainsaid. But
the recognition of a privilege does not mean that it is
without conditions or exceptions. The social policy that
will prevail in many situations may run foul in others of
a different social policy, competing for supremacy. It is
then the function of a court to mediate between them,
assigning, so far as possible, a proper value to each, and
summoning to its aid all the distinctions and analogies
that are the tools of the judicial process. The function is
the more essential where a privilege has its origin in
inveterate but vague tradition and where no attempt has
been made either in treatise or in decisions to chart its
limits with precision.
Assuming that there is a privilege which protects from
impertinent exposure the arguments and ballots-of a juror

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

while considering hi verdict, we think the privilege does
not apply where the relation giving birth to it has been
fraudulently begun or fraudulently continued. Other exceptions may have to be made in other situations not
brought before us now. It is sufficient to mark the one
that is decisive of the case at hand. The privilege takes
as its postulate a genuine relation, honestly created and
honestly maintained. If that condition is not satisfied,
if the relation is merely a sham and a pretense, the juror
may not invoke a relation dishonestly assumed as a cover
and cloak for the concealment of the truth. In saying
this we do not mean that a mere charge of wrongdoing
will avail without more to put the privilege to flight.
There must be a showing of a prima facie case sufficient to
satisfy the judge that the light should be let in.* Upon
that showing being made, the debates and ballots in the
jury room are admissible as corroborative evidence, supplementing and confirming the case that would exist
without them. Let us assume for illustration a prosecution for bribery. Let us assume that there is evidence,
direct or circumstantial, that money has been paid to a
juror in consideration of his vote. The argument for the
petitioner, if accepted, would bring us to a holding that
the case for the People must go to the triers of the facts
without proof that the vote has been responsive to the
bribe. This is paying too high a price for the assurance
to a juror of serenity of mind. People ex rel. Nunns v.
County Court, supra.
*As to the function of the judge in the decision of such preliminary

questions see: Maguire and Epstein, Preliminary Questions of Fact
in Determining the Pi iissibility of Evidence, 40 Harvard L.Rev.
392, 397, 403; Morgan, Functions of Judge and Jury, 43 Harvard L.
Rev. 165; Maguire and Epstein, Rules of Evidence in Preliminary
Controversies as to Admissibility, 36 Yale L.J. 1101, and the cases
there collected.

CLARK v. UNITED STATES.

15

Opinion of the Court.

We turn to the precedents in the search for an analogy,
and the seateh is not in vain. There is a privilege protecting communications between attorney and client.
The privilege takes flight if the relation is abused. A
client who consults an attorney for advice that will serve
him in the commission of a fraud will have no help from
the law. He must let the truth be told. There are early
cases apparently to the effect that a mere charge of
illegality, not supported by any evidence, will set the confidences free. See, e.g., Reynell v. Sprye, 10 Beav. 51,
54, 11 Beav. 618; In re Postlewaite, 35 Ch.D. 722, 724;
cf. Regina v. Bollivant [1900] 2 Q.B.D. f 63, [1901]
A.C. 196. But this conception of the privilege is without
support in later rulings. "It is obvious that it would be
absurd to say that the privilege could be got rid of merely
by making a charge of fraud." O'Rourke v. Darbishire,
[1920] A.C. 581, 604. To drive the privilege away, there
must be "something to give colour to the charge; "
there must be "prima facie evidence that it has some
foundation in fact." O'Rourke v. Darbishire, loc. cit.,
supra; also pp. 614, 622, 631, 633. When that evidence is
supplied, the seal of secrecy is broken. See also: Regina v.
Cox, [1884] 14 Q.B.D. 153, 157, 161, 175; cf. Bujac v.
Wilson, 27 N.Mex. 112; 196 Pac. 513; In re Niday, 15
Idaho 559; 98 Pac. 845. The judgment of the House of
Lords in O'Rourke v. Darbishirehas given to the whole
subject a definitive exposition. Nor does the loss of the
privilege depend upon the showing of a conspiracy, upon
proof that client and attorney are involved in equal guilt.
The attorney may be innocent, and still the guilty client
must let the truth come out. Regina v. Cox, supra;
Matthews v. Hoagland, 48 NJ.Eq. 455, 469; 21 Atl.
1054; State v. Faulkner, 175 Mo. 546, 593; 75 S.W. 116;
Standard Fire Ins. Co. v. Smithhard, 183 Ky. 679, 684;
211 S.W. 441; State v. Kidd, 89 Iowa 54; 56 N.W. 263;

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

cf. Bank of Utica v. Mersereau, 3 Barb. Ch. 528, 598;
Coveney v. Tannahill, 1 Hill (N.Y.) 33, 41.
With the aid of this analogy, we recur to the social
policies competing for supremacy. A privilege surviving
until the relation is abused and yanishing when abuse is
shown to the satisfaction of the judge has been found to
be a workable technique for the protection of the confidences of client and attorney. Is there sufficient reason
to believe that it will be found to be inadequate for the
protection of a juror? No doubt the need is weighty that
conduct in the jury room shall be untrammeled by the
fear of embarrassing publicity. The need is no less
weighty that it shall be pure and undefiled. A juror of
integrity and reasonable firmness will not fear to speak
his mind if the confidences of debate are barred to the
ears of mere impertinence or malice. He will not expect
to be shielded against the disclosure of his conduct in the
event that there is evidence reflecting upon his honor.
The chance that now and then there may be found some
timid soul who will take counsel of his fears and give way
to their repressive power is too remote and shadowy to
shape the course of justice. It must yield to the overmastering need, so vital in our polity, of preserving trial
by jury in its purity against the inroads of corruption.
Cf. Attorney-General v. Pelletier, 240 Mass. 264; 134
N.E. 407; People ex rel. Hirschberg v. Board of Supervisors, 251 N.Y. 156, 170; 167 N.E. 204; State v. Campbell, 73 Kan. 688; 85 Pac. 784.
Nothing in our decision impairs the authority of
Bushell's case, Vaughan 135, 1670, with its historic vindication of the privilege of jurors to return a verdict freely
according to their conscience. There had been a trial of
Penn and Mead on a charge of taking part in an unlawful
assembly. The jurors found a verdict of acquittal, though
in so doing they refused to follow the instructions of the

CLARK v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

court. For this they were fined and imprisoned, but were
discharged on habeas corpus, Vaughan, C. J. pronouncing
"that memorable opinion which soon ended the fining of
jurors for their verdicts, and vindicated their character
as judges of fact." Thayer, Preliminary Treatise on Evidence at the Common Law, p. 167. Bushell's case was
born of the fear of the Star Chamber and of the tyranny of
the Stuarts. Plucknett, Concise History of the Common
Law, p. 114. It stands for a great principle, which is not
to be whittled down or sacrificed. On the other hand, it
is not to be strained and distorted into fanciful extensions.
There is a peril of corruption in these days which is surely
no less than the peril of coercion. The true significance
of Bushell's case is brought out with clearness in declaratory statutes. By one of these, a statute of New York,
"No juror shall be questioned [for any verdict rendered
by him], or be subject to any action, civil or criminal,
except to indictment for corrupt conduct in rendering
such verdict, in the cases prescribed by' law." R.S. of
N.Y., Part 3, c. 7, Title 4, § 69; Civil Rights Law, § 14.
The Revisers tell us in their notes that the statute,
though new in form, is declaratory of an ancient principle
(R.S., 2d ed., vol. 3, p. 741), and so we may assume it is.
Matter of Cochran, 237 N.Y. 336, 340; 143 N.E. 212;
cf. People ex rel. Nunns v. County Court, supra at p. 448.
It would give no help to the petitioner though it were
enacted for the federal courts. She has not been held to
answer for any verdict that she has rendered, nor for
anything said or done in considering her verdict. Matter
of Cochran, supra. She has been held to answer for the
deceit whereby she made herself a juior, and was thereby
placed in a position to vote upon the case at all. What
was said and done in the jury room is-not the gist of her
wrongdoing. What was said and done in the jury room is
no more than confirmatory evidence of her state of mind
1.545038-2

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Coert.

289 U.S.

before. One could urge with as much reason that she
would be subjected to coercion if she had been indicted
and tried for bribery and the same evidence had been
accepted, in support of the indictment.
Nor is there anything in our decision at variance with
the rule, which is not without exceptions (Mattox v.
United States, 146 U.S. 140, 148; cf. Wigmore, Evidence,
vol. 5, §§ 2353, 2354; Woodward v. Leavitt, 107 Mass.
453; Hyman v. Eames, 41 Fed. 676; Fuller v. Fletcher,
44 Fed. 34, 39), that the testimony of a juror is not admissible for the impeachment of his verdict. McDonald
v. Pless, 238 U.S. 264. Here there was no verdict, and
hence none to be impeached. But in truth the rule
against impeachment is wholly unrelated to the problem
now before us, the limits of the privilege to maintain a
confidence inviolate. Wigmore, supra, § 2346. Impeachment may be forbidden though the jurors waive their
privilege, and combine with the defeated litigant to make
the verdict null. Privilege may be asserted though there
is nothing to impeach.
In the record now before us the evidence of guilt is
ample, without the happenings in the jury room, to break
down the claim of privilege, and thus let in the light.
There is the evidence of the concealment of the petitioner's employment with all its sinister implications.
There is the evidence of her arguments with the jurors
while the trial was going on. There is even the evidence
of her vote, for the fact that she had voted for acquittal
had been stated in her answer, and to the extent of the
voluntary disclosure the privilege had been waived. Indeed what happened in the jury room added so little to
the case that the error, if there had been any, in permitting it to be proved, would have to be regarded as
unsubstantial and without effect on the result. No one
can read the findings of the triers of the facts and hesittate in concluding that even with this evidence omitted

CLARK v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

there would have been an adjudication of contempt. In
considering with all this fulness the merits of the ruling,
we have been moved by the desire to build securely for
the future.
3. The oath of a contemnor is no longer a bar to a
prosecution for contempt.
Little was left of that defense after the decision of this
court in United States v. Shipp, 203 U.S. 563, 574. Since
then there has been no purgation by oath where an overt
act of defiance is the gist of the offense. The point was
reserved whether sworn disavowal would retain its ancient force "if the sole question were the intent of an
ambiguous act."
The time has come, we think, to renounce the doctrine
altogether and stamp out its dying embers. It has ceased
to be a defense in England since 1796. Matter of Crossley, 6 T.R. 701. It has been rejected generally in the
States. Dale v. State, 198 Ind. 110; 150 N.E. 781; State
v. District Court, 92 Mont. 94; 10 P. (2d) 586; 14 re
Singer, 105 N.J. Eq. 220; 147 Atl. 328;, State v. Keller, 36
N.M. 81; 8 P. (2d) 786; Boorde v. Commonwealth, 134
Va. 625; 114 S.E. 731 ;Huntingtonv. McMahon, 48 Conn.
174, 200, 201; State v. Matthews, 37 N.H. 450, 455; Bates's
Case, 55 N.H. 325, 327; State v. Harper's Ferry Bridge
Co., 16 W.Va. 864, 873; cf. Carson v. Ennis, 146 Ga. 726;
92 S.E. 221; Matter of Snyder, 103 N.Y. 178, 181; 8
N.E. 479; note 9 L.R.A. (N.S.) 1119; Curtis, 4 Harvard L. Rev. 51, 65. It has even lost, since the decision in
the Shipp case, the title to respect that comes of a long.
historical succession. It has taken its place with ordeal
and wager of law and trial by battle among the dimly
remembered curios of outworn modes of trial. Thayer,
op. cit., supra, p. 8, et seq.
4. There was no denial to the petitioner of a fair notice
of hearing, nor any variance of substance between the
information and the findings.

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.

20

Sta.3ment of the Case.

289 U.S.

We have considered the arguments to the contrary, and
find them without merit.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is acAffirmed.
cordingly
ANDERSON, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE, v. WILSON ET AL., EXECUTORS *
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT

No. 460. Argued February 8, 9, 1933.-Decided March 13, 1933
1. A New York will, providing for the liquidation of residuary real
estate, the proceeds of which it bequeathed to designated beneficiaries, directed the executors within the period of two lives in
being to dispose of the property, as and when in their judgment
it could be sold to advantage. They were free to form and use
for this purpose a holding company if they saw fit, and to decide,
in their discretion, whether to distribute the proceeds of any sale
or to retain them for further conversion before distribution. Until
the time of distribution, the net income was to be paid semiannually to the beneficiaries. Held:
(1) That the executors took the fee title in trust, and not merely
a power. P. 24.
(2) By the law of New York, where land is left by will to
executors to convert into money and distribute, the executors take
the fee title upon the trust, and the beneficiaries have no interest in
the corpus other than to enforce performance of the trust. P. 25.
2. A loss resulting from a sale of real estate by executors holding
fee title on a trust to manage and sell and to distribute the proceeds, is a loss of the estate, and can not be deducted by the
beneficiary in making his personal return of income under the
Revenue Act of 1921. P. 26.
60 F. (2d) 52, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 287 U.S. 592, on cross petitions to review a
judgment reversing a judgment-51 F. (2d) 268-against
the Tax Collector and directing a retrial. Upon this reTogether with No. 461, Wilson et al., Executors, v. Anderson,
Collector of Internal Revenue.
*

