44

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Syllabus.

289 U.S.

the award) an action in Tennessee to recover compensation under the Tennessee Act. The court held that by
bringing the Ohio proceedings the widow had renounced
her right under the Tennessee Act; and final judgment
was entered for the company shortly before the action at
bar was begun. The opinion states that the suit is one
upon contract; that "the sole defense interposed is the
proceedings in Ohio "; that the institution of the proceedings in Ohio "was a clear renunciation or disaffirmance
of the contract "; "that the election thus made was irrevocable, because the petitioner [Mrs. Tidwell] has taken
the benefit of the Ohio suit and the defendant [the Company] will doubtless take the detriment of that suit ";
and the court added: "Not prejudging another case, but
merely by way of answer to argument made in this case,
we may observe that defendant's way of escape from the
Ohio proceedings and award is not apparent, after the
pleading by the defendant of such proceeding and award
to defeat its liability herein." In view of this decision, we
have no occasion to consider differences in phraseology between the Tennessee statute and that of Vermont.
Judgment for the plaintiff.
EX PARTE LA PRADE.
MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE PETITION FOR A WRIT OF
MANDAMUS.

No. 21, Original. Argued April 17, 18, 1933.-Decided May 22, 1933.
1. A suit against a state officer in a federal court, alleging that a state
statute is unconstitutional, that the defendant threatens to enforce
it by suing colori officii for drastic penalties prescribed by the
statute for its violation, and so will subject the plaintiff to irreparable injury unless enjoined, i§ a suit against the defendant as an
individual. Ex parto Young, 209 U.S. 123. P. 455,

EX PARTE LA PRADE.
444

Statement of the Case.

2. Such a suit abates upon the defendant's retirement from office,
unless it can be revived against his successor under authority of a
statute. P. 456.
3. Arizona' laws do not provide for substitution of the successor.
Irwin v. Wright, 258 U.S. 219. P. 456.
4. Sectioil 780 (b), U.S.C., Title 28, providing for substitution of state
officials in suits by or against them in the federal courts "relating
-to the present or future discharge of official duties,". does not
authorize the imposition of liability or restraint upon the successor
on account of anything -done or threatened by the predecessor
individually. P. 458.
5. In construing § 780, supra, which relates to substitution of both
federal and state officers, it is to be borne in'mind that while Congress can direct the conduct of federal officers in proceedings
brought by or against them as such and may ordain that they may
sue or be sued as representatives of the United States and stand-in
judgment on its behalf, it is not so empowered as to state officers.
P. 458.
6. Wrongs committed or threateneq! by an officer under an unconstitutional statute do not constitute ground for an injunction against
his successor; nor does a declaration of the statute that he shall
bring penalty suits to enforce it, since he might hold it unconstitutional and deem himseif justified by his official oath in refraining.
P. 458.
7. In the absence of statutory authorityj the District Court had no
jurisdiction to substitute tje successor as defendant in this case or
to direct that the suit be continued against him. P. 459.
8. The question is reserved whether, or in what circumstances, a
successor in office who adopts the attitude of his predecessor and is
proceeding or threatenifig to enforce an unconstitutional statute*
may be substituted in a pending suit. P. 459.
Mandamus to issue.

MoTIoN for leave to file' a petition for a writ of mandamus requiring a circuit and two district judges to dismiss, as to the relator, two suits in which he was made
The arguparty defendant by orders of substitution.
ment was on the motion for leave to file and the judges'
return to an order to show cause. See 2 F.Supp. 855.

446

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Argument for Petitioner.

289 U.S.

Mr. Donald R. Richberg for petitioner.
Mandamus is the proper remedy, and in this case the
only remedy. Los Angeles Brush Mfg. Co. v. James, 272
U.S.
and other cases.
The701,
statute, by its terms "permits" a cause
to be continued and maintained against the successor when he
consents, and when the suit hhs been brought against the
predecessor "as a public officer." It does not authorize
the court to compel even a federal officer to consent to
substitution, Union Trust Co. v. Wardell, 258 U.S. 537;
Smietanka v. Indiana Steel Co., 257 U.S. 1.
It is not to be assumed that the statute was intended
to impose obligations on state officers, since no such authority has been delegated to the Federal Government,
and it would be an invasion of the reserved power of the
States for the Federal Government to impose duties and
financial burdens on state officers.
The federal statute could not constitutionally authorize
the court to compel La Prade, as a state officer, to accept
substitution for Peterson because:
(a) Suit against La Prade as a state officer would be a
suit against the State 'in pontravention of the Eleventh
Amendment. Ex parte Ayers, 123 U.S. 443; Minnesota
v. Hitchcock, 185 U.S. 373; Fitts v. McGhee, 172 U.S. 516;
In re State of New York, 256 U.S. 490.
(b) The Federal Governnent can not exercise the fe-served powers of the States by imposing duties and financial burdens on state officers.
(c) The original suits were maintained on the ground
that they had been brought against Peterson as an individual and not as a state officer. Ex parte Young, 209
U.S. 123, 159; Poindexter v. Greenhow, 114 U.S. 270;
In re State of New York, 256 U.S. 490.
There is no privity betveen Peterson and La Prade.
United States v. Boutwell, 17 Wall. 604; Gorham Mfg.
Co, v,Wendell, 261 U.S. 1.

EX PARTE LA PRADE.
444

Argument for Petitioner.

La Prade can not be made responsible for Peterson's
wrongdoing. Smietanka v. IndianaSteel Co., 257 U.S. 1;
United States v. Boutwell, supra.

The personal liability of Peterson as an individual defendant can not be shifted to La Prade. Gorham Mfg.
Co. v. Wendell, 261 U.S. 1.
La Prade can not be required to defend himself without
a complaint filed against him, a summons issued, or any
opportunity to plead or to present evidence in his own
behalf. The suit against Peterson can not be transformed
by a mere order of substitution into a suit against La
Prade. United States v. Boutwell, 17 Wall. 604; Richardson v. McChesney, 218 U.S. 487.
It is apparent that La Prade is not only required, by the
order in this case, to step into Peterson's shoes, to be
charged with the alleged wrongdoing of Peterson, but
he must undertake the financial burden of carrying on a
siit which, through its conduct by Peterson, carries with
it ultimate liability not only for the costs already incurred,
but also liability for the costs which the new defendant
must .incur, or else fail in his defense. Here is a case in
which over 8,000 pages of testimony have been taken; the
costs of a reference to master, approximating $15,000

have been incurred.
If all costs to the present time were disregarded, it
would be necessary for La Prade, as a substitute defendant, to subject himself to enormous costs which would be
required for an appeal to the Supreme Court from the
decision of the three-judge court.
Such substitution would not be "due process of law."
McVeigh v. United States, 11 Wall. 259; Windsor v.
McVeigh, 93 U.S. 277.
There is an entire lack of jurisdiction in the three-judge
court to proceed against petitioner. Liberty Warehouse
Co. v. Grannis, 273 U.S. 70; Champlin Rfg. Co. v. Corporation CQmm'n, 286 U.S. 210, 238,

448

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Argument for Respondents.

289 U.S.

Messrs. Robert Brennan and Henley C. Booth, with
whom Messrs. Homer W, Davis, Guy V. Shoup, and E. E.
McInnis were on the brief, for respondents.
Petitioner's remedy was to appeal from the final decree,
entered before he filed his petition.
He should have remained and participated in the final
,hearing, and would not thereby have consented to the substitution, or added in the least to the power and jurisdiction of the District Court over him. Harkness v. Hyde,
98 U.S. 476, 479; Southern Pacifi Co.v. Denton, 146 U.S.
102, 206; Merchants H. & L. Co. v. Clow & Sons, 204
U.S. 286, 289.
It would be consistent vith the, former decisions of this
Court to decline, ,on this application, to consider the
jurisdict'on of the District Court. In re Chicago, R. I. &
P. Ry. Co., 255 U.S. 273.
The substitution statute vested discretionary. power in
the District Court to make the substitution order, and
unless the statute is invalid the order was proper.
Petitioner's contention that the statute only empowers
a court to permit and does not authprize a court to compel substitution does violence to its words. If any explanation of legislative intent were necessary, then the
statement of Mr. Justice Van Devanter at the hearing
before the Senate Committee (Hearing of Subcommittee
on Judiciary of Senate, 68th Cong., 1st Sess., on S.2061,
A Bill to Give the Supreme Court Authority to Make and
Publish Rules in Common Law Actions--Feb. 2, 1924),
that a successor sought to be substituted is "given opportunity to show cause, if he have any, why the substitution should not be made," and the statement in the House
Judiciary Report, H.Rep. No. 1075, 68th,Cong., p. 7, that
under the statute "new state, county, and city officers
may be substituted after notice to them and if such substitution is shown not to work them injustice," conclu-

EX PARTE LA PRADE.
444

449

Argument for Respondents.

sively negative petitioner's contention. Union Trust Co.
v. Wardell, 258 U.S. 537.
The substitution statute as applied here does not violate the Fifth, Tenth, or Eleventh Amendments. Congress has power by appropriate legislation to prevent the
invasion by States of the exclusive and occupied legislative field of Congress under the commerce clause, and to
prevent interstate commerce being unduly burdened, and
to enforce the Fourteenth Amendment.
Because an action against an individual who is a state
officer, and which relates to the present or future discharge of his official duties, can be maintained only so
long as he is clothed with official authority to do the act
sought to be enjoined, it abates as soon as he ceases to
hold such office, unless there is a statute providing for the
substititibn of his successor. That is the obvious and
necessary purpose of the substitution statute. Such a defendant is not, because of that situation, sued in his official capacity or as a representative or agent of the State,
within the Eleventh Amendment cases. Nor are the
principles applicable that govern abatement of actions
against individuals; such as an action to enjoin a threatened trespass tortiousin character, -personal in nature and
not commanded by a state statute authorizing and requiring the trespass.
The purpose is, among other things, to provide for adjudication of donstitutional questions in the federal courts
in suits against officials relating to the present or future
discharge of their duties. Another purpose is to enable
the successors of the state offcials against whom final decrees have been entered to be .substituted and take or
carry on appeals.
While judicial power can only be exercised in a case or
controversy, its exercise is not confined to the forms of
procedure that existed in 1789.
15450°-33---29

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Argument for Respondents.

289 U.S.

Congress is authorized by appropriate legislation to enforce the Fourteenth Amendment, and to carry into effect
the power to regulate interstate commerce. The substitution statute is a valid exercise of that power.
Failure to appear would no more have affected the
power of the District Court to adjudicate the controversy
than failure of his predecessor to appear in response to
the original subpoena would have affected it.
If plaintiffs do not bring suits, and if defendants do not
defend suits or have not in advance by their conduct or
agreements become liable for costs, no costs can be
assessed against them.
The question of petitioner's liability for costs incurred
while his predecessor was the defendant of record is moot,
because the motion for leave to file petition was made on
March 13, 1933, after the filing on March 8, 1933, of final
decrees that adjudged that plaintiffs should collect no
costs from either petitioner or his predecessor.
In some of the cases holding there could be no substitfition without a statute providing therefor, lack of privity
is referred to. What this Court meant was that there was
not such privity as exists for example between a trustee
and his successor; that there was not such privity that the
action would survive in the absence of a statute so
providing.
There is ample relationship between petitioner and his
predecessor to sustain the substitution statute and the
action of the District Court thereunder.
The duty of petitioner is precisely the same as that of
his predecessor-to enforce the law unless competently
restrained. Neit&.er could disclaim that intention; nor is
a threat by either necessary to the jurisdiction.
When the official sued is under a statutory duty to
prosecute, that is sufficient for jurisdiction. Penn8ylvania
v. West Virginia, 262 U.S. 553, 592; Pierce v. Society, of
Sisters, 268 U. . 510; Williams v. Boynton, 147 N.Y. 426.

EX PARTE LA PRADE.
444

Opinion of the Court.

Section 3 of the Arizona Act specifically provides that
the penalties thereunder "shall be recovered and suits
therefor brought by the Attorney General, or under his
direction, in the name of the State." No discretion in
the matter is entrusted to the Attorney General.
The Legislature and the Attorney General are agents
of the State and capable of unlawful action; and the latter
is bound to obey the former.
The authorities almost unanimously hold that it is the
duty of an executive officer to comply with a state statute
until the courts declare it unconstitutional, unless he
would be under a personal liability if he complied and the
statute were afterwards annulled; and that in the absence of personal liability, the defense of unconstitutionality may not be raised in a mandamus proceeding by
any such officer. State ex rel. v. State Board, 84 Fla.
592; Harv. L.7Rev., June, 1929, p. 1071. See Columbus
& Greenville Ry. Co. v. Miller, 283 U.S. 96, 99; Smith v.
Indiana, 191 U.S. 138; Braxton County Court v. West
Virginia, 208 U.S. 192; Marshall v. Dye, 231 U.S. 250,
258; and Stewart v. Kansas City, 239 U.S. 14, 15.
The Fifth Amendment is not violated by the substitution.
The Arizona Train Limit Defense Statute and the acts
and agreements of the state officials thereunder constituted such a consent by the State to the hearing and
adjudication of the suits that petitioner is bound thereby.
Act of Mar. 13, 1931 (c. 63, p. 142, Laws, 1931).
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER

delivered the opinion of the Court.

Arthur T. La Prade, Attorney General of Arizona, applied for leave to file a tendered petition for writ of mandamus requiring Circuit Judge Wilbur and two district
judges, constituting a United States district court in that
State, to dismiss as to petitioner two suits in equity to
which the court, against his opposition, had made him a

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 US.

party defendant in substitution for his predecessor in office. We directed the judges to show cause why the leave
prayed should not be granted, assigned the case for argument, directed briefs to be filed on or before the day set,
stayed proceedings against petitioner, and directed the
district court to continue its term pending the final determination of petitioner's application. The judges made
their return to the rule. On the appointed day, there
being no material controversy as to controlling facts, we
heard oral arguments upon the -merits.
The Act of the Arizona legislature approved by the
governor, May 16, 1912, and on referendum by a majority
of the voters of the State, November 5, 1912, being § 647,
Revised Code, 1928, declares that it shall be unlawful for
any. company operating a railroad in that State to run
over its line any train consisting of more than 70 freight
or other cars exclusive of caboose, or any passenger train
of more than 14 cars, and provides that any company that
shall willfully violate" any of the provisions of the Act
shall be liable to the State for a penalty of not less than
$100 nor more than $1,000 for each offense, and that such
penalty shall be recovered, and suits therefor brought, by
the attorney general in the name of the State.
July 24, 1929, the Atchison, Topeka and Santa Fe Railway Company and the Southern Pacific Company, respectively, brought suits in the federal court above referred to against K. Berry Peterson, then attorney general of the State. By its complaint each of the plaintiffs
shows that it operates a line of railroad and trains for interstate transportation in and through Arizona; sets forth
facts on which it claims that enforcement of the statute
against it would violate the commerce clause, the due
process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, various provisions of the Interstate Commerce Act and other laws of
the United States regulating interstate transportation by
railroad; alleges that, if plaintiff shall operate tyains con-

EX PARTE LA PRADE.
444

Opinion of the Court.

sisting-of more tnan the specified number of cars, the defendant unless enjoined will institute numerous prosecutions for recovery of the prescribed penalties; asserts that
the damage and injury which.it daily sustains by reason
of the statute, is great and irreparable, and prays that
defendant be temporarily and permanently enjoined.
In each case defendant answered and moved to dismiss
the bill on the ground that the suit was one against the
State prohibited by the Eleventh Amendment. The
court consolidated the cases, refused temporary injunctions and denied defendant's motions to dismiss. 43 F.
(2d) 198. It -then appointed a master, who heard and
reported the evidence together with his findings of fact,
conclusions of law and recommendations for decrees in
favor of plaintiffs. Defendant filed exceptions to, and
moved to suppress, the report. The parties filed their
briefs; and the court, in accordance with their stipulation,
set down the causes for hearing at San Francisco on February 8, 1933. In the meantime, January 3, 1933, defendant's term of office expired and the petitioner, La
Prade, then became the attorney general of the State.
January 30, the plaintiffs delivered to petitioner a copy
of an application to the. court for, an order substituting
him as party defendant and gave notice that the application would be presented to the 'ourt at the time and place
so fixed.
The applications for substitution were made under 28
U. S. C., § 780.* It provides that, where a suit brought
*(a)

Where, during the pendency of an action, suit, or other pro-

ceeding brought by or against av officer of the United States, or of the
District of Columbia, or the Canal Zone, or of a Territory or an
insular possession of the United States, or of a county, city, or other
governmental agency of such Territory or insular possession, and
relating to the present or future discharge of his official duties, such
officer dies, resigns, or otherwise ceases to hold such office, it shall
be competent for the court wherein the action, suit, or proceeding is

454

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

by or against a state officer is pending in a federal court
at the time of his separation from his office, the court
may permit the cause to be continued and maintained by
or against such officer's successor if within six months it
be satisfactorily shown that there is a substantial need
for so continuing and maintaining the cause and obtaining
an adjudication of the questions involved. The section
requires that the officer, unless expressly consenting
thereto, be given reasonable notice of the application and
an opportunity to present any -objectiofi which he may
have. As grounds for the substitution, plaintiffs' application merely stated that each suit relates to the future discharge of the official duties of the Attorney General of
Arizona and, following the language of the statute, that
there is a substantial need for continuing and maintaining
it alid obtaining adjudication of the questions involved.
Plaintiffs, at the appointed time and place, applied to
the court for the order of substitution. The petitioner
appeared specially and objected. He insisted that, each
of the suits being against his predecessor individually,
the questions involved became moot upon the expiration
of the latter's term of office; that, there being no pleading
pending, whether the court be one of first instance or an appellate
tribunal, to permit the cause to be continued and maintained by or
against the successor in office of such officer, if within six, months
after his death or separation from the office it be satisfactorily shown
to the court that there is a substantial need for so continuing and
maintaining the cause and obtaining an adjudication of the questions
involved.
(b) Similar proceedings may be had and taken where an action,
suit, or proceeding brought by or against an officer of a State, or of
a county, city, or other governmental agency of a State, is pending
in a court of the United States at the time of the officer's death
or separation from the office.
(c) Before a substitution under this section is made, the party or
officer to be affected, unless expressly consenting thereto, must be
given reasonable notice of the application therefor and accorded an
opportunity to present any objection which he may have.

EX PARTE LA PRADE.
444

Opinion of the Court.

dharging him with having threatened to enforce the state
enactment, there was no cause of action against him; that
he could not be held for the costs theretofore incurred,
and that the suits should be dismissed. After hearing
the parties, the court by an order merely containing a recital in the general words of the statute as to the need
for continuing the suits, made the petitioner defendant
in each case.
Promptly, upon somewhat amplified grounds, he filed a
motion that the cases be dismissed. The court denied the
motion. Petitioner and his counsel declined to participate in further proceedings in the case. The court heard
plantiffs orally and, March 8, 1933, filed its opinion, findings of fact and conclusions of law, and entered decrees
adjudging the statute unconstitutional and enjoining petitioner. It declared that no costs up to and including the
entry of the final decree should be assessed against petitioner or his predecessor. The opinion, 2 F. Supp. 855,
construes the statute to impose the duty of enforcement
upon each succeeding attorney general and declares that,
as long as there is an attorney general in the State, the
threat of prosecution is always present and the resulting
injury, if any, always impends.
The injunctions sought are not aimed at the State or
the office of attorney general or to restrain exertion of
any authority that belongs to either. Each complaint
-charges that, because of a void enactment and the purpose of defendant under color of his office to enforce it by
means of suits which it purports to authorize, plaintiff is
prevented from operating trains that are of suitable size
and necessary for the proper conduct of the transportation
business, and so continuously suffers great and irreparable
injury. The suits were brought against defendant, not
as a representative of the State, but to restrain him individually from, as it is alleged, wrongfully subjecting plaintiff to such unauthorized prosecutions. In Ex parte

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

Young, 209 U.S. 123, the court said (p. 159): "The Act
to be enforced is alleged to be unconstitutional, and if it
be so, the use of the name of the State to enforce an unconstitutional act to the injury of complainants is a proceeding without the authority of and one which does not
affect the State in its sovereign or governmental capacity.
It is simply an illegal act upon the part of a state official
in attempting by the use of the name of the State to
enforce a legislative enactment which is void because unconstitutional. If the act which the state Attorney General
seeks to enforce be a violation of the Federal Constitution,
the officer in proceeding under such enactment comes into
conflict with the superior authority of that Constitution,
and he is in that case stripped of his official or representative character and is subjected in his person to the consequences of his individual conduct." The principle there
stated has since been applied in numerous decisions here.
See e.g., Hopkins v. Clemson College, 221 U.S. 636, 642
et seq. Truax v. Raich, 239 U.S. 33, 37. Terrace v.
Thompson, 263 U.S. 197, 214. Sterling v. Constantin,
287 U.S. 378, 393.
The laws of Arizona do not authorize substitution of
petitioner for his predecessor. See Irwin v. Wright, 258
U.S. 219, 222. The suits abated whep defendant Peterson ceased to be attorney general. And unless empowered
by § 780, the district court is without jurisdiction to direct
that petitioner be substituted and that the suits be continued and maintained against him. United States ex rel.
Berna;dJin v. Butterworth, 169 U.S. 600, 605. Shaffer v.
Howard, 249 U.S. 200, 201. Gorham Mfg. Co. v. Wendell, 261 U.S. 1.
Subdivision (a) of § 780 applies only to proceedings
brought by or against officers of the United States or those
holding office directly or mediately under the authority
of Congress. It is derived from the Act of February 13,
W25, c. 229, § 11 (a), 43 Stat. 941. It enlarges the Act

EX PARTE LA PRADE.
444

Opinion of the Court.

of February 8, 1899, c. 121, 30 Stat. 822, which was passed
after our decision in United States ex rel. Bernardin v.
Butterworth, supra. It was there held that a suit to compel the Commissioner of Patents to issue a patent abated
by the death of the Commissioner and could not be revived so as to bring in his successor even upon consent of
the latter. At the conclusion of its opinion the court said
(p. 605): "In view of the inconvenience, of which the
present case is a striking instance, occasioned by this state
of the law, it would seem desirable that Congress should
provide for the difficulty by enacting that, in the case of
suits against the heads of departments abating by death
or resignation, it should be lawful for the successor in office
to be brought into the case by petition, or some other
appropriate method."
Subdivision (b) applies only to proceedings brought by
or against those holding office under state authority. As
to such, it authorizes "similar proceedings" to those
specified in subdivision (a). It was passed after our
decision in Irwin v. Wright, supra. The opinion shows
(p. 222) that a suit to enjoin a public officer from enforcing a statute is personal and, in the absence of statutory
provision for continuing it against his successor, abates
upon his death or retirement from office. The court held
that the Act of February 8, 1899, did not authorize, the
substitution of a county treasurer for his predecessor in a
suit against the latter to enjoin collection of taxes. We
suggested that it would promote justice if -Congress were
to enlarge the scope of that Act so as to authorize substitution in suits by or against state officers and said:
"Under the present state of the law, an important litigation may be begun and carried through to this court after
much effort and expense, only to end in dismissal because,
in the necessary time consumed in reaching here, state
officials, parties to' the action, have retired from office.
It is a defect which only legislation can cure."

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court,

289 U.S.

Subdivision (c) extends to all cases covered by (a) and
(b). It merely requires that before substitution a nonconsenting officer shall be given notice and opportunity
to object. It does not prescribe the showing of facts necessary to warrant an order that the proceeding be continued by or against the successor. When construing the
section, it is to be borne in mind that Congress has authority to direct the conduct of federal officers in proceedings brought by or against them as such hnd may ordain
that they may sue or be sued as representatives of tl&
United States and stand in judgment on its behalf (I.C.C.
v. Oregon-WashingtonR. & N. Co., 288 U.S. 14, 27); but
that Congress is not. so empowered as to state officers.
The section is merely permissive; it does not require but
merely authorizes the court to order substitution in the
cases covered. It extends only to suits "relating to the
present or future discharge of . . . official duties." At
least as to state officers it does not purport to authorize theo
imposition of liability or restraint upon the successor on
account of anything done or threatened by the predecessor
individually.
As shown above, the purpose of the suits was to prevent
a wrong about to be committed by defendant acting outside, and in abuse of the powers of, his office. The wrongs
threatened or committed by him constitute no ground for
injunction against petitioner. Plaintiffs did not allege
that petitioner threatened or intended to do anything for
the enforcement of the statute. The mere declaration of
the statute that suits for recovery of penalties shall be
brought by the attorney general is not sufficient. Petitioner might hold, as plaintiffs maintain, that the statute
is unconstitutional and that, having regard to his official
oath, he rightly may refrain from effort to enforce it.
United States Constitution, Art. VI, cl. 3. Arizona Revised Code, 1928, § 63. The statement of Chief Justice
Taft writing for the Court in' GorhamMfg. Co. v. Wendell,

BEVAN v. KRIEGER.
444

Syllabus.

supra, is pertinent. ie said (p. 4): "The inherent difficulty in all these cases is not in the liability and suability
of the successor in a new suit. It is in the shifting from
the personal liability of the first officer for threatened
wrong or abWise of his office to the personal liability of his
successor when there is no pivity between them, as there
is not if the officer sued is injuring or is threatening to injure the comp~ainant, without lawful official authority.
There is no legal relation between the wrong committed
or about to be committed by the one,. and that by the
other."
It follows from what has been said that § 780 has no application to the case as presented and that the district
court had no jurisdiction to subistitute petitioner as a
party defendant, in place of his predecessor or to direct
that the suits be continued and maintained against him.
We have no occasion to decide whether or in what circumstances a successor in office who adopts the attitude of his
predecessor and is proceeding or threatening to proceed
to enforce the statute may be substituted in a pending
suit. That question is not here and is reserved.
Petitioner's application for leave to file is granted, the
case will be docketed and respondents' return filed, and
a writ of mandamus will issue commanding the respondents to vacate the decrees against petitioner and to dismiss
the suits as to him.
It is so ordered.
BEVAN v. KRIEGER, SHERIFF.*
APPEALS FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF OHIO.

No. 784.

Argued May 8, 9, 1933.-Decided May 22, 1933.

1. Witnesses subpoenaed by a notary public to give depositions, pursuant to § 11529 of the General Code of Ohio, failed to attend; and
* Together with No. 785, Koehrman v. Krieger, Sheriff, and No. 786,

Stranahanv. Krieger, Sheriff.

