HOMER V. THE COLLECTOR.

[litp. Ct.

Statement of the case.

The learned judge, instead of directing the jury to disregard the custom, should have instructed them that if
established to their satisfaction, and especially if known to
the assured, from his previous transactions with the company or otherwise, it determined the meaning of the terms
A 2, and was fatal. to the right of the plaintiff to recover.
The construction claimed by the underwriters involved no
hardship to the defendant in error. When the parties failed
to agree as to the premium, he was at liberty to insure elsewhere. He refused to pay the premium demanded, yet insisted they were bound. The company had a right to guard
against the alternative of submitting the rate of the vessel
to the judgment of a jury; I think they intended to do so.
In any view which I can take of the subject, there was error
in the second part of the instructions. For these reasons,
in my opinion, the judgment should be reversed, and the
cause remanded for further proceedings.
I am requested to say that Mr. Justice DAVIS concur@
in this opinion.

HOMER v. THE COLLECTOR.
Under the Tariff Act of 1846, as amended by the Tariff Act of 1857, almonds are subject to a duty of S0 p. c. ad valorem.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of Massachusetts, the case being thus:
The Tariff Act of 1857, which was an act reducing duties,
provided by its first section, that in lieu of the duties then
existing, there should be imposed upon the articles in schedule B of the. Tariff Act of 1846, a duty of 30 p. c.; and
upon those in schedules C, E, and G, of said act, the du ties of
24,15, and 8p. c. respectively, "with such exceptions as a,e hereinafter made."
The Tariff Act of 1846 had imposed a duty of 40 p. c.
upon the articles enumerated in schedule B, among which
were ." almonds" (by name), "currants," "dates," "figs,"

Dec. 1863.]

13oIER v. TuE

COLLECTOR.

Statement of the case.

"prunes," "'raisins." It had imposed a duty of 30 p. c.
upon those enumerated in schedule 0, among which articles
were" grapes," "nuts, not otherwise provided for," "plums;"
and a duty of 20 p. c. upon those enumerated in schedule
B, including "bananas," "cocoa-nuts," "fruit, green or ripe,
not otherwise provided for," "oranges," "lemons and limes,"
"pineapples."
By this first section, therefore, of the Tariff Act of 1857,
the duties on almonds, currants, dates, figs, prunes, and raisins, were reduced from 40 to 30 p.c.; grapes, plums, "nuts
not otherwise provided for," to 24 p. c.; bananas, oranges,
lemons, &c., and "ffruit, green or ripe, not otherwise provided for," in the statute of 1846, to 15 p. c.; unless these
articles or any of them should come under the "exceptions"
afterwards made. The second section of the act of 1857 did
make exceptions in favor of various articles, among thema
"fruit,green, ripe, or dried," which it enacted should be trans-'
ferred to schedule G; thus making them liable to a duty of
8 p. c. No particularfruits were named in this section.
Tariff acts, prior to that of 1846-that is to say, the
tariff acts of 1804, 1816, 1832, 1842-had all laid a duty on
"almonds" by name.
In this state of the tariff acts the plaintiff had made an
importation of almonds, on which the defendant, Collector
of the Port of Boston, charged 30 p. c. ad valorem. The plaintiff, considering that almonds were within the exception of
"dried fruit," and so chargeable with but 8 p. c. ad v alorem,
paid the larger duty under protest, and brought suit to recover the difference. In the course of the trial the following
questions were raised:
1st. Whether by law almonds were subject to a duty of 30
p. c. or of 8 p. c. only.
2d. "Whether evidence should be admitted to prove that
before and at the time of the passing of the Tariff Act of
1857, almonds were fruit, green, ripe, or dried, according to
the commercial understandingof these terms in the markets,of this
.to hsountr

3d. Whether it should be let to the jury to determine

Ho mER V. THE

COLLECTOR.

[Sul). Ct.

Argument for the importer.

whether almonds were fruit, green, ripe, or dried, according
to the commercial understandingof these terms in our own markets
when the Tariff Act of 1857 was passed.
-A.certificate of division of opinion in the judges as to the'le
points brought the same questions here.
Mr. Welch,for the importer: Our position is, that an exception has been made on the article of almonds in the second
section of the act of 1857; and that by this section it is transferred to schedule G. under the act of 1846, which imposed a
duty of but 8 p. c.; and we ask to show this by evidence that
"almonds" were "fruit," green, ripe, or dried, according to
the commercial understanding of our markets, and so within
that schedule.
The general rule, which will be admitted, is, that Congress
uses language in the revenue laws "in its known and habitual
commercial sense," "in that known in our own trade, foreign
and domestic." There are two qualifications to this rule. The
first is, where Congress has, by its legislation, made it apparent
that it did not intend to include a particular article under a
name which, among commercial men, would include it. But
this qualification has no application here. [The counsel here
cited and commented largely on prior tariff acts to support
this position.] The second is, when there is a known popular
sense in which a word or phrase, designating some common
article, is used accordantly with the etymology of the language and with the common understanding of all but a particular class. In those cases Congress may be presumed to
use the word in that sense, and not in any peculiar commercial one. .faillard v. Laawrence,* where it was decided that
shawls were "wearing apparel" in the sense of the revenue
laws, is an illustration. But this qualification applies no
more than the first one, for the term dried fruits in popular
meaning includes almonds. They are popularly classed
among the dried fruits of the table with raisins, dates, &c.:
they are bought as such at retail shops with the same articles
* 10 Howard, 251.

Dec. 1863.]

IOM
Rt v. TaE COLLECTOR.
Argument for the United States.

of dried fruit: they are defined in dictionaries as fruits, not
in the general sense alone as fruits of the earth, but in the
more limited sense as being the edible fruits of trees, shrubs,
or vines: they are botanically treated as fruit in books of
horticulture.*
It is not important that "almonds" are mentioned by name
in the old tariff acts; for in legislation, previous to 1857,
neither the terms "fruit, green,ripe, or dried," nor any similar
termswere used; but "almonds," like the other dried fruits of
commerce, were specifically enumerated, and were placed in
companionship with those other dried fruits, and subjected
to the same duty with all or most of them. Moreover, the general plan of statute of 1857 shows an intention to class them
under the general term with the other dried fruits. And it
may be added, that the same argument which would exclude
almonds would exclude raisins, and all or most of the other
dried fi-uits.
Mr. Bates, A. G., who submitted a brief of Mr. Woodbury,
contra: The question really is, whether "almonds" are almonds; for if they are, there is an end of the questi6n,
"almonds" being by name charged 80 p. c. The inference
from commercial nomenclature, that they have been transferred to a schedule providing for fruits, cannot operate in
the face of a provision of a differeni kind for them by name.
The term "dried fruits" means such fruits as have required
skill in preparation. Almonds may be "1dry" when old, as
hazel-nuts are, but they have gone through no process of
preparation, and are not within the class.
* In "1Downing on Fruit and Fruit Trees" (p. 150, &c.), the almond tree
is treated of as one of the proper subjects of his book, the manner of cultivating
it for fruit is pointed out, the localities in the United States where it will
bear fruit are mentioned, and the various kinds are especially described. It
is also stated that many naturalists, from the difficulty of distinguishing it
by its leives and wood from the peach, and from experiments in raising it
from the seed, are of opinion that the peach tree and almond tree are the
same, the difference between them having been produced by cultivation.
See also "Loudon's Encyclopudia of Gardening,"
4542. Nut-trees in
genrral arn not treated of in works on fruit-trees.

490

HOMER

v. THE COLLECTOR.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

The case is one of judicial construction of the revenue
statutes. The proposition of leaving to the jury to determine, on evidence put before them, of a commercial understanding, whether an import, whose specific name is unquestioned, and is given specifically, bears also another name
mentioned but generally, in the tariff, strikes at the roots of
the judicial function of interpreting statutes. It places the
construction of revenue laws at the mercy of commercial
experts and unskilled juries, liable to vary in every district
and at every term; and hence utterly incompetent to guide
the Treasury in its obligation to require uniform duties.
Mr. Justice iNELSOIN, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court:
The airgument is, that almonds are dried fruit, and hence
are provided for in the second section of the act of 1857; and
evidence was offered on the trial to show that such was the
commercial sense of the term. But this inquiry had nothing
to do with the question, and, indeed, it is difficult to see how
any such inquiry could take place except as matter of curiosity and speculation; for, certainly, such proof could not
exist or be found in the sense of commercial usage under
any of the tariff acts, as a duty has been imposed on almonds,
eo nomine, almost immemorially, at least since the duty act
of 1804, and continued in the duty act of 1816, 1832, 1842,
1846. The article, as we have seen, is charged specifically
with a duty of 40 p. c. ad valorem in the act of 1846, and is
not named in the changes in the act of 1857. Full effect
can be given to the term "fruit," "dried," without the very
forced construction to bring within it the article in question.
Direction to the court below that almonds are subject to
duty of 30 p. c. ad valorem. The other questions certified
need not be answered.
DIRECTION ACCORDINGLY.

