PARKER V. PRETTEPLACE.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.

direction is, that they shall at all times be kept up in conspicuous places on such vessels, and be observed both night
and day. Congress did not make the rules or establish the
districts, but authorized both to be done by the supervising
inspectors. The rules and regulations adopted did not embrace the waters which the steam-tug was navigating, and
consequently she was not in fault in not having complied
with those rules and regulations. The limits of the fourth
district were amended in March, 1861, so as to embrace the
Pacific coast, with all the waters flowing into the same,
within the original boundaries of the district. Doubts are
entertained, however, whether the limits, as amended, included the Territory of Washington; but the regulations
adopted in December following provide that the first district
shall embrace all the waters. and rivers of the Pacific, which
remove all doubt upon the subject.
DECREES ACCORDINGLY.

PARKER V. PHETTEPLACE ET AL.

A question of fact arising upon a bill to set aside conveyances as made in
fraud of creditors, in which, though the court agreed that "there was
ground of suspicion," it gives weight to an answer positively denying
the facts and fraud charged; this answer being supported by the positive testimony of a witness, who, though not a defendant in the case,
was a principal actor in the transactions charged to be fraudulent.
MILL.XB, J., dissenting.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the District of Rhode
Island.
The complainants below, appellants here, filed a bill as
judgment creditors, to set aside conveyances of the property
of one Edward Seagrave, their debtor, and made, as they
alleged, to hinder and delay the execution of their judg-

Dec. 1863.]

PARKER V. PIETTEPLACE.
Statement of the case.

ment. The judgment was recovered in the Circuit Court of
the United States, at November Term, 1854, against the said
Seagrave, for $60,520.88, and costs, in a suit commenced on
the 26th October previous. Execution was duly issued and
part of the debt collected, the remainder. still remaining due
andunpaid. The conveyances charged to be fraudulent were
executed by the judgment debtor on the 17th November,
1854, and the 4th January, 1855; the first to Phetteplace &
Seagrave, a firm in Providence, Rhode Island, of certain real
estate and stocks; the second, an assigment to one Updike,
of all his real and personal property, in trust for the benefit
of creditors; giving certain preferences specified in the assignment. The Seagrave of the firm of Phetteplace & Seagrave, was George Seagrave, a brother of Edward, the debtor.
Both were residents of the same place, Providence.
It appeared from the proofs, that in the early part of 1853,
Edward Seagrave, the debtor, Merrit & Co., and S. Harris,
associated together to speculate in the purchase and sale of
wool, the purchases to be made-upon the credit of the paper
of the parties, to be discounted at the banks. In this way,
Seagrave's liabilities from acceptances and indorsements
amounted, in July, 1853, to about $176,000. Becoming
alarmed at the magnitude of this debt, he made an arrangement with his associates, by which he sold out his interest
in the business to them; and in consideration that they
would pay all the outstanding paper, and would indemnify
him against the same, he agreed to pay them $33,500. This
sum was paid and the indemnity given. These associates
failed to take up the paper, and on the 4th February, 1854,
went into insolvency. Seagrave stopped payment on this
partnership paper th6 same day, but continued his individual
business until the 4th January, 1855, when he made the assignment to Updike for the benefit of his creditors. In the
autumn of 1854, Phetteplace & Seagrave, the defendants
below and appellees here, a firm in Providence, as already
stated, finding the outstanding paper of the associates in the
wool speculation, held by the banks, at a great discount,
purchased of that paper to the amount of some $45,000, at the

686

PARKER V. PHETrEPLACE.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for-the plaintiff in error.

rate of from fifteen to twenty cents on the dollar, and afterwards applied to Edward Seagrave, the judgment debtor,
one of the parties to the paper, for payment or security.
The stocks and real estate conveyed for the security and
payment of this indebtedness, together with the property
assigned to Updike for the benefit of creditors, constitute
the subject of complaint in the bill.
The bill chargedthat this outstanding paper againstEdward
Seagrave was purchased under an arrangement or understanding that he should have the benefit of the difference
between the nominal value and the per cent. paid; that this
proportion of the stocks and real estate transferred to the
purchasers to secure the payment belong to him, and is held
in trust for his benefit; and that the scheme was contrived
for the purpose of hindering and defeating their execution;
and further, that the assignment to Updike was a part of the
same fraudulent device.
The answer denied positively the allegations of the bill, and
Edward Seagrave, who being now resident out of Rhode
Island, was not made a defendant in the case, and was called
by Phetteplace & Seagrave as a witness, testified in like positive manner that there was no understanding between him
and Phetteplace & Seagrave, such as was alleged; that he
had no interest in the paper, and that he had never received
any profit from it.
The court below, after a full hearing of the case, dismissed
the bill; which was the matter complained of here.
Mr. Jenks, for the creditor,plaintiff in error-admitting that
by the law of Rhode Island an insolvent debtor might make.
preferences, if fair ones-relied largely on the special facts

of this case, which he brought together from every part of
the testimony, and presented in a strong and highly colored
aspect. It was not to be expected that proof could be
brought of a covenant in writing to commit this fraud, nor
even proof of words. The parties here were intelligent men;
far too intelligent for that. That would be gross and vulgar
fraud. But the deed, not the less, was done. The greatest

Dec. 1863.]

PARKER V. PRETTEPLACE.
Argument for the plaintiff in error.

crimes which power ever has commanded have been done
without a word.*
An understanding-" signs" parleying again with "signs"
-is all that is necessary to allege. The relations of the parties speak trumpet-tongued.
George Seagrave was Edward's brother; both lived in the
town of Providence; both had the means of knowledge, and
* The great poet of our language touches finely on the sentiment which
counsel here enforced. And when the murder of a prince was to be accomplished by a royal villain uncle, it was done upon "the winkingof authority."
Every one recalls the two great scenes in King John, before and near the
death of Arthur. The king is now addressing his attendant, Hubert. I
quote from the third and fourth acts.
Hing John. I had a thing to say,-but let it go.
If that thou couldst see me without eyes,
Hear me without thine ears, and make reply
Without a tongue, using conceit alone,Without eyes, ears, and harmful sound of words,I would into thy bosom pour my thoughts:
But ah! I will not .....
He lies before me. Dost thou understand me?
Thou art his keeper.
Hubert. And I will keep him so,
That he shall not offend your majesty.
At a later day, when remorse and terror have seized the conscience,tricken king for Arthur's death, he reproaches his attendant, Hubert, with
bMving uncerstood him when only he "faintly broke" the subject.
King John. It is the curse of kings to be attended
By slaves, that take their humors for a warrant
To break within the bloody house if life;
And, on the winking of authority,
To understand a law .....
Hadst thou bat shook thy head, or made a pause,
When I spake darkly what I purposed,
Or turned an eye of doubt upon my face,
As bid me tell my tale in express words,
Deep shame had struck me dumb.
But thou didst understand me by my signs,
And didst in signs again parley with sin;
Yea, without stop didst let thy heart consent,
And consequently thy rude hand to act
The deed which both our tongues held vile to name.
RxP.

PARKER V. PHETTEPLACE.

[Sup. Ct

Argument for the defendant in error.

actually knew the amount of property held by Edward, and
that a conveyance to them by Edward, of the propert described in the present suit, would deprive him of all means
of paying his other creditors. This knowledge, Mr. Jenks
contended with force, threw upon them the burden of proving
the fairness of the transaction. That they had .not done;
and it is admitted that they purchased depreciated paper,
which Edwart Seagrave had neither paid, nor expressed the
least intention of paying, and then claimed payment in full,
knowing that such payment would deprive the debtor of all
means of paying anything to his other creditors. They were
not ordinary or just creditors. They came to be creditors at
all but as purchasers of discredited paper. The simple idea
of the thing-the idea of one brother going into the street,
to purchase for almost nothing the notes of his dishonored
brother, whom, in the purchase, it was his interest of course
to dishonor further; and then, with his business accomplished, coming back with the notes in his hand to obtain
payment of them in full,-was disgusting; and would, of itself, fill every honorable mind with suspicion and disesteem.
Did he buy the notes, meaning to put into operation against
a brother the sharp and cruel means of adverse process of the
law to collect them? Certainly not. le knew they would
be paid without this. Such was the understanding, and
herein was the fraud.
The assignment to Updike was void, and was part of the
scheme to cover up the fraud by which the property of Edward Seagrave was placed in the hands of his own brother
and Phetteplace. Such assignments are no obstruction to
the execution of legal process, or to the granting of relief in
equity.*
Mr. Potter, contra, contending that the purchase of the
notes of an insolvent merchant was a practice perfectly
known and legal, denied the existence of fraud, and relied
* 1 American Leading Cases, 17-75; Stewart v. Spenser, I Curtis, R)7;
Heydock v. Stanhope, Id., 471; In the matter of Durfee, 4 Rhode Island,
401.

Dec. 1863.]

PARKER V.

-HETTEPLACE.

Opinion of the court.

largely, among other testimony, on the effect of the positive
denials in the answer, which not only were uncontradictd
by two witnesses, or by one witness and circumstances, but
were fully supported by Edward Seagrave, the person best
competent to declare his pmposes and property.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
The case turns upon the answer to be given upon the evidence to this charge in the bill, as it is agreed that, according to the law of Rhode Island, the debtor in insolvent circumstances has a right to prefer creditors in the distribution
of his estate, or in the application of it to the payment of
his debts.
The charge is denied in the answers, and Edward Seagrave, the debtor, not made a party to the bill, who was
called as a witness for the defendants, sustains the answers.
He testified that there was no agreement or understanding
between him and the firm of Phetteplace & Seagrave that
he was to share in the profits arising out of the purchase of
this paper, nor had he any interest in the same, nor has he
ever received any share of the profits, nor do the purchasers
hold any portion of them in trust for his benefit. His testimony upon this point, and which constitute the main issue
in the case, is full and explicit in the denial of any participation, directly or indirectly, in the transaction. The evidence
relied on on the other side to overcome the answers of the
defendants, and the testimony of this witness, is circumstantial and argumentative.
The court below, on a very full consideration of all the
proofs, came to the conclusion that the purchase of the paper
by Phetteplace & Seagrave was in independent transaction,
without any agreement or understanding with the debtor;
that their title to the paper was absolute and unqualified, and
that the debtor had no interest in the same, legat or equitable,
present or future, and rendere d a decree dismissing the bill.
We agree that there is ground of suspicion that the purchase
was made by the friends and for the benefit of Edward Sea.
grave, the debtor, but concur with the court that the weight
VOL. 1.

44

UNITED STATES

v. GOMEZ.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

of the proofs is otherwise, and the bill properly dismissed.
The question upon the assignment to Updike is so intimately
connected with the transaction we have just examined, the
conclusion arrived at in the one must control that in the
other.
The principal point made against this assignment is, that
the preference in it in favor of Phetteplace & Seagrave for
certain debts and liabilities, embrace the outstanding paper
which they had purchased, and which was secured by the
previous conveyances. But, on looking into the assignment,
this interpretation is not warranted. The preference relates
to other indebtedness and liabilities.
It is also said that Edward Seagrave embraced in this
assignment the purchased outstanding paper which he took
up, on giving security to the purchasers. But this was proper, as Merrit & Co., and Harris, who were on the paper,
had bound themselves to indemnify Seagrave against it, and
were, therefore, still liable upon it; and were to the assigns
on the transfer of it to him.
DECREE AFFIRMED

Mr. Justice MILLER dissented.

UNITED STATES V. GOMEZ.
Nhere the question was, whether a party should be heard on appeal, and
the effect of refusal to hear him would have left in full force a decree
that the court was "not prepared to sanction," it was held:
.. That an order to enter up a decree was not to be taken as the date of a
decree entered subsequently "nowfor then," but that the date was the
day of the actual and formal entry.
'... That the object of a citation on appeal being notice, no citation was ne-essary in a case where in point of fact, by agreement of parties, actual
and full knowledge by the party appellee of the other side's intention
to appeal appeared on the record; and where, moreover, by such a construction as the court was inclined to put on part of the case, the appeal
was taken in the same term when the decree was made.
8 That a certificate that a transcript of a record was a "full, true, and correct copy of all the proceedings, entries, and files in the District Court

