Dee. 1868.]

IASIGI v. THE COLLECTOR.
Statement of the cse.

IASIGI ET AL. v. THE CoLLECTOR.
1.'hile goods remain in the ownership of the importer, the collector of
the customs has a reasonable time to fi their true dutiable value; and
his right to reappraise them under the act of May 28, 1830, in any case
where, from neglect or want of evidence on the part of the appraisers,
the appraisement has been under the proper dutiable value, is not lost,
merely because they have gone through one form of appraisement,
and been delivered to the importer with a memorandum on the invoice
that the entry was ',7ight." But the court expresses no-opinion on a
case where the goods "had passed beyond the reach of the collector."
2. In a suit to recover duties levied on a reappraisement of goods under the
act of May 28, 1830, 2, and paid under protest-one ground of the
suit being that the reappraisement was not made by the persons authorized by the act to make it-it is necessary that the objection be specified in the protest. Otherwise it will not be heard here.
8. An appraisement is conclusive upon the fact whether the appraisement
of the goods imported was or was not made, as the act of March 3, 1851,
1, directs that it shall be, as "of the actual market value or wholesale
price thereof in the principal markets of the country, from which the
same shall have been imported." If the importer alleges that it was not
so made, and is dissatisfied, his remedy is by appeal to the "merchant
appraisers." He cannot use the fact in a suit to recover the money
paid as duties under protest.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of Massachu.
setts.
Iasigi & Goddard imported a cargo of wool from the Cape
of Good Hope to Boston, which wa.s invoiced, and, on the
16th March, 1860, entered at a price or value at the place of
exportation of less than twenty cents per pound, and hence
duty free under the act of 3d March, 1857.* Certain packages
-the "examination packages," as they are called-were examined by the appraisers, and the invoice certified "Right,"
and sent to the collector. All but the examination packages were delivered to the importers under the general bond
at once; that is to say, on the day of entry, March 16th; and
the examination packages on the next day. Subsequently
one of the general appraisers at New York having come to
Boston, informed the collector there that there had been
* 11 Stat. at Large, 194.

IASIGI v. THE COLLECTOR.

[Sup. ct.

Statement of the case.

"some neglect," and in consequence of "information" now
given to him, the collector directed a reappraisement. A
certain Crocker, "one of the principal appraisers of the
United States, at the port of Boston," assisted by Mr. Bausch,
a wool examiner, of 1New York, accordingly, went to work
to reappraise the wool. They found it in the warehouse of
the importers; and having put the word ".Not" before the
word ".Right" on the original invoice, returned it to the collector, with the following direction for reappraisement.
"Add, to make market value at Port Elizabeth at date of exportation, on 186 bales, three farthings per pound; on 614 bales,
CROCKER, Appraiser."
id. per pound.
This addition brought the wool above twenty cents. A
duty was accordingly imposed; and this being approved by
the collector, notice was given to the importers of the reappraisement, with a demand for the redelivery of the wool
under the bond. The importers declined to redeliver the
wool, and having made protest, paid the duty, $16,571. The
protest contained sixteen grounds of objection to what was
done. Among them were these:
1. That the appraisement was not made as of the market
value of the principal markets of the country from which
the wool came (which statute requires it to be).
2. That it was not made (as statute also requires it to be)
as of the date of exportation to the United States; a fact,
however, upon which the court did not read the evidence as
the counsel did.
Nio objection was made, in terms, to the fact that the reappraisement was not made "by the principal appraisers, or
by three merchants;" in which way alone, it was contended,
as will be seen hereafter, by the counsel of the importers,
that it should have been made. But the protest did set
forth and object that the appraisement was "unauthorized
by law and illegal in form and substance," and that it was
made "under the influence, direction and dictation of a person not holding the office of an appraiser for the port of
J3oston or any other port, and who was not authorized by

Dec. 1863.]

.
v. THE COLLECTOR.
e SIGI
Argument for the Importers.

law to make any examination of the merchandise, or to make
and direct any appraisement thereof."
Suit having been brought against the collector to recover
the duties paid to him under protest, the court instructed
the jury that, on the whole case, the plaintiffs were not
entitled to recover; and the correctness of this instruction
was the question on error here.

Mr. S. Bartlett,for the importers:
1. The first question raised is, whether, when an appraisement has been once made, and the merchandise surrendered
to the importer, it can, in absence of fraud, afterwards, and
for an indefinite time, be again subjected to appraisement,
and the duties increased or levied anew?
The act of Congress of August 30, 1842,* providing
revenue from imports, enacts that,
"It shall be lawful for the appraisers or the collector to call
before them, and examine upon oath or affirmation, any importer
or other person touching any matter or thing which they may
deem material in ascertaining the true market value, or wholesale price, of any merchandise imported, and to require the
production, on oath or affirmation, of any letters, accounts, or
invoices in his possession relating to the same."
This court, in commenting on the effect of an appraisement, after citing a former case, has said as follows :t
"The appraisers are appointed with powers, by all reasonable
ways and means, to appraise, estimate, and ascertain the true
and actual market value and wholesale price of the importation.
The exercise of these powers involves knowledge, judgment, and
discretion. We hold, as was held in that case, that when power
or jurisdiction is delegated to any public officer or tribunal over
a subject-matter, and its exercise is confided to his or their discretion, the acts so done are in general binding and valid as to
the subject-matter. Die only question which can arise between
*

17; 5 Stat. at Large, 564.

t Belcher v. Linn, 24 Howard, 608-522; citing Bartlett v.. Kane, 16
id., 272.

IASIGI v. THE COLLECTOR.

[Sup. Ct.

Argumeni for the importers.

an individual and the public, or any person, denying their validity, are, power in the officer and fraud in the party. All other
questions are settled by the decision made or the act done by
the tribunal or officer, whether executive, legislative, judicial, or
special, unless an appeal or other revision is provided for by some
appellate or supervisory tribunalprescribed by law."
So as to all questions of fact, even those which are to be
derived from commercial information, this court has said:*
"The appraisers are by law the tribunal to determine the
question. Their decision is conclusive upon the importer
as well as the government."
The question, then, arises: Hlas the law provided for any
"appeal or revision," at the instance of the collector, and if so,
was the provision of law followed, or attempted to be followed, in this case?
An act of Congress, of May 28, 1830,t says as follows:
"If the collector shall deem any appraisement of goods too
low, he shall have power to order a reappraisement, either by
the principalappraisers,or by three merchants designatedby him for
that purpose, who shall be citizens of the United States, and cause
the duties to be charged accordingly."
But when may he do this? Clearly but upon the return
of the appraisers, and before the collector's fiat that all is
"right,"-before, in short, a permit and delivery has been
made to the importer. Otherwise, and if the right is unlimited in point of time, innocent vendees into whose hands
the goods have passed, may be subjected to an unjust levy.
Again, by the act of Congress last quoted, such new appraisal is to be made " either by the principal appraisers or by
three merchants." In this case it was done by one appraiser
only (Crocker), assisted by an examiner of wool, Bausch,
from iNew York. Consequently, it was not done as the act
requires, and was void. If the act of August, 1842, as well
as the authorities, did not make it clear that one appraisement,
* Stairs v. Peaslee, 18 Howard, 522-527. See, also, lankin v. Hoyt, 4
Id., 327-335; Burgess v. Converse, 2 Curtis, 216-221.
2; 4 Stat. at Large, 409.

Dec. 1863.]

IASIGI v.

THE

COLLECTOR.

Argument for the importers.

confirmed and acted on, and surrender made of the goods
to the importer, is final and conclusive against all parties, yet
the entire policy of the revenue acts, sufficiently known without particular citation, which requires prompt action on the
part of the importer to have his rights, in case of controversy, settled as against the government before the permit
is granted and the property surrendered, demonstrates that
nothing is intended to be left for revision or future action.
Indeed, any view that should give the collector the right to
order reappraisements, except as provided in the act of May
28,1830, must include the power to exercise such right after
duties have been paid and the merchandise distributed for
consumption, if haply the collector can find them, as in this
case, and of course being unlimited in time, might render
the accuracy of such future appraisement wholly precarious.
2. But even if reappraisement, after permit and delivery,
was authorized by law, the defects and irregularities of the
reappraisement made in this case, are such that it could not
be sustained:
i. It was not made as of the date of exportation, viz., the
period of the ship's sailing, but is of a period twenty-eight
days subsequently.
i. The act of March 3, 1851,* enacts that the appraisement shall be made as "of the actual market value or wholesale price thereof in the principal markets of the country
from which the same shall have been imported in the United
States." Now the only return of this reappraisement is on
the invoice, and is in these words: "Add, to make market
value at PortBlizabeth at date of exportation." (Then follows
the statement of farthings added.) Now, although the court
may not judicially know the fact that there are other ports of
exportation in the colony of the Cape of Good Hope, and
other principal markets of British Eastern Empire, yet the
appraisement itself must clearly show that there are none
other than Port Elizabeth, or that the appraisement was
made in conformity to the statutes, or it is defective.
*

1; 9 Stat. at Large, 629.

IASIGI V. THE COLLECTOR.

[Sup. Ct

Argument for the importers.

8. Is the plaintiff entitled to redress himself, as he sought
below to do, by suit? It will be said on the other side that
his remedy was by appeal to "merchant appraisers," under
the act of 30th August, 1842.* That statute, indeed, "provides that, if the importer shall be dissatisfied with the apthe collector shall select two discreet and
praisement, ....
experienced merchants to examine and appraise."
But the enactment does not apply to this case. For, if
the reappraisement was illegal, then only the original appraisement remains, and from that the importer had no occasion to appeal, since it exempted the goods from duty. Independently of which, parties are not bound, in any case of
irregular and improper discharge of their functions by appraisers, to make any appeal whatever, even to merchant
appraisers. The law gives an appeal, not to correct irregular proceedings, but to correct, if need be, the errors of
judgment or estimates of values committed by the original
appraisement. In case of irregularities of conduct, all that
is required of the importer is to point them out clearly by
protest, and then, if not corrected, and he is compelled to
pay the duties, he may at once sue the collector. Burgess v.
Converse, in the first circuit,t is much to this point. Speaking of an appeal to merchant appraisers, Curtis, J., there
says: "I consider the importer entitled to have both proceedings regular, but I do not think he is bound to take an
appeal if the government appraisers have not proceeded in
conformity with the authority conferred on them by law. In
my judgment, he may, and should in such a case, make his
protest and stand upon it, as the ground of refusal to pay
the increased duty, and in such a case, the collector would
not be justified in exacting the increased duty by an illegal
assignment. But if he demands a reappraisement, and that
is regular, he waives all objections to the first, which is superseded and rendered unimportant by the second."
*

17; 5 Stat. at Large, 564; slightly modified by act of 8d March, 1851,

t 2 Curtis, 216-220.

Dec. 1863.]

IASIGI v. THE OOLUECTOR.
Argument for the United States.

Hr. Bates, A. G., contra:
1. There must exist, from a necessary respect to the go
vernment's rights, a power in the appraiser to review his
appraisement, at least, while the goods remain unsold in the
importer's hands. Bartlett v. Kane,* in this court, decides
that it does exist. That the collector may direct a reappraisement is obvious from the statute of May 28th, 1880,
quoted on the other side.
An appraisement unappealed from is conclusive evidence
of the value of the goods. Belcher v. Linn,t cited by Mr. Bartlett, decides this. And in the term appraisement is included,
of course, reappraisement. This is appraisement. If an importer is dissatisfied with the appraisement, he has his remedy
by an appeal to merchant appraisers. What was said on the
circuit in Burgess v. Converse, should be received with caution.
It was not an opinion on a point arising in the case or essential to its decision; for in that case there had been an appeal.
It is a view of the law not sustained by any case in this court,
and is irreconcilable with the current of the decisions of this
court upon the powers and- duties of appraisers, and especially with Belcher v. Linn, the latest. In that case, this court,
speaking of appraisers, says-this paragraph being quoted
also on the other side-that "the only questions which can
arise between an individual and the public, or any person
denying their validity (i. e., of their acts), are power in the
officer, and fraud in the individual."I
2. One of the points taken here--the incompetency of the
persons who made the reappraisement-is not set forth distinctly and specifically in the protest. Any matter not so
set forth will not be heard on suit. The statute of February
25, 1845,ยง enacts:
"Nor shall any action be maintained against any collector to
* 16 Howard, 263.

t 24 Id., 516.
And see Rankin v. Hoyt, 4 Id., 327; Greely v. Thompson, 10 Id., 225;
Bartlett v. Kane, 16 Id., 268; Stairs v. Peaslee, 18 Id., 524; Sampson r.
Peaslee, 20 Id., 571.
j 5 Stat. at Large, 727.

IASIGI

v.

THE COLLECTOR.

[Slip. ut

Opinion of the court.

recover the amount of duties so paid
said protest was made in writing, and
at or before the payment of the said
tinctly and specifically the grounds of
thereof."

under protest, unless the
signed by the claimant,
duties, setting forth dis.
objection to the payment

3. As respects various matters set forth, the answer is the
same already made. The report of the appraisers is conclusive, conclusive not only as to the result, the dutiable value
of the goods, but also as to all the elements necessary to
form this result; conclusive as to what are the principal
markets of the country,* as to the date of exportation, the
market value of the goods, &c. It is a conclusive finding
upon all the. facts on which the appraisers are obliged to pass,
in order to discharge their duty, i. e., to determine the dutiable value of the goods imported and submitted to them. If
an importer is not content with the result, or with any detail
of their finding, or with their conduct in any respect, his
sole and his sufficient remedy is by an appeal to merchant
appraisers in the mode pointed out by the statute. If he
does not avail himself of the right of appeal, he has no reason to complain that the government exacts the duties
assessed on his goods. His refusal to appeal indicates that
in his opinion the appraisement is substantially correct, and
that he must rest his claim to recover the duties solely on
technical grounds.
Mr. Justice NELSON, after stating the chief facts, delivered the opinion of the court:
The only question of any difficulty in the case, is whether
or not the collector has the power to order a reappraisement
of goods imported, after one appraisement, and permit of
delivery to the importer, and the actual delivery of the
same?
The act of 2d May, 1830, authorizes the collector to order
a reappraisement, either by the principal appraisers or by
three merchants, &c. The board of officers to make the
* Stairs v. Peaslee, 18 Howard, 524.

Dec. :1863.]

IASIGI v. THE COLLECTOR.
Opinion of the court.

examination and appraisal of the goods imported may have
been changed, but this power of the collector remains unaltered.
It is true, that the appraisal and aseertainment of the dutiable value of the goods are made final and conclusive both
upon the importer and the government. But the question
still remains, what appraisal or ascertainment of the value is
to be regarded as final? It is admitted, if the appraisal was
infected with fraud or imposition, it could not be, and the
collector would not only be justified, but it would be his
duty to order reappraisement, even under the circumstances
in which the present one was made.
The interest of the government, as well as a proper regard
for the rights of the honest importer, require it. And it
seems to us but reasonable, if,
from neglect or want of pro.
per evidence or information, on the part of the appraisers,
the appraisal be under the proper dutiable value, this power
of the collector should be permitted to correct the error. It
is true, the exercise of it is usually, and doubtless with few
exceptions, previous to the permit to deliver the goods; and
must be so, generally, in order to be effective. But the act
of Congress conferring the power on the collector, fixes no
limit to the period within which it may be exercised, and we
think a reasonable discretion should be allowed him.
We see no hardship to the importers in giving a liberal
interpretation to this power; for, in practice and in point of
fact, the permit has become more a matter of form than of
substance. The bulk of the goods are usually delivered in
the hands of the importer on their arrival, and previous to
the permit under the delivery bond; and though, as a mere
question of law, the collector doubtless possesses the power
to recall the goods, yet he usually looks to the bond for the
security of the duties.
It is not denied but that the gobds found in the warehouse
of the importer and reappraised were the same that had
been entered at the customs, and from which packages had
been selected for examination, and we think it would be
too limited and rigorous a construction of the power of the

MEYER

v. THE CITY OF MUSCATINE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

collector to hold that, under the circumstances of the case,
he was not authorized to make the order complained of. If
the goods had passed beyond the reach of the collector, a
different question might have been presented. We express
no opinion upon such a case.
It has been argued that the reappraisal was not made by
the proper officers. The answer is, that, although the protest is quite voluminous, this objection is not specified. If
it had been, it doubtless would have been answered by the
proofs.
It is further argued, that the appraisal was not made as of
the market value of the principal markets of the country from
whence the wool was imported. The answer is, the appraisement is conclusive upon this fact, and the court cannot go
behind it. The remedy is an appeal by the importers to the
merchant appraisers.
It is further said, the date of the period of exportation
was not the time adopted by the appraisers in ascertaining
the dutiable value. This is a misapprehension.. The report
of the appraisers, indorsed on the invoice, confines the appraisal at date of exportation.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

MEYER V. THE CITY OF MUSCATINE.
1. Where a charter gives a city power to borrow monny for any object in
its discretion, and a statute of the State where thL city is enacted that
"bonds of any city" issued to railroad companies "may have interest
at any rate not exceeding" a rate named, and "may be sold by the
company at such discount as may be deemed expedient"-Ield, that
the city had power to issue bonds to aid the construction of railways;
even although the power to borrow, as given in the charter, was found
among powers of a nature strictly municipal; such, in fact,-except as,
under the decision now made, might respect the power to "borrow
money,"-being the only powers given in the charter at all. The statute, in connection with the power, gives the requisite authority.
MILLER, J., dissenting.
2. A city having power to borrow money, may make the principal and
interest payable where it pleases.

