Dec. 1863.]

Ex

PARTE VALLANDIGHAM.

Statement of the case.

1 Fairf., 441; Butland & B. B..Co. .v. Cole, 24 Vt., 33. Doubt
cannot arise in this case that the person named in the note
was in fact the cashier of the plaintiff bank, because the fact
is admitted, and it is also admitted that the plaintiff can
prove that in taking the note he acted as the cashier and
agent of the corporation, provided the evidence is legally
admissible. Our conclusion is, that the evidence is admissible, and that the suit was properly brought in the name of
the bank. The judgment of the Circuit Court is therefore
affirmed with costs.
JUDGMENT ACCORDINGLY.

EX PARTE VALLANDIGHAM.
The Supreme Court of the United States has no power to review by certiorari the proceedings of a military commission ordered by a general
officer of the United States Army, commanding a military department.

THIs case arose on the petition of Clement L. Vallandigham for a certiorari,to be directed to the Judge Advocate
General of the Army of the United States, to send up to this
court, for its review, the proceedings of a military commission, by which the said Vallandigham had been tried and
sentenced to imprisonment; the facts of the case, as derived
from the statement of the learned Justice (WAYNE) who
delivered the opinion of the court, having been as follows:
Major-General Burnside, commanding the military department of Ohio, issued a special order, No. 135, on the 21st
April, 1863, by which a military commission was appointed
to meet at Cincinnati, Ohio, on the 22d of April, or as soon
thereafter as practicable, for the trial of such persons as
might be brought before it There was a detail of officers
to constitute it, and ajudge advocate appointed.
The same general had, previously, on the 13th of April,
1863, issued a general order, No. 38, declaring, for the information of all persons concerned, that thereafter all persons

Ex

PARTE VALLANDIGHAM.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

found within his lines who should commit acts for the benefit
of the enemies of our country, should be tried as spies or
traitors, and if convicted should suffer death; and among other
acts prohibited, was the habit of declaring sympathies for
the enemy. The order issued by General Burnside declared that persons committing such offences would be at
once arrested, with a view to being tried as above stated, or
to be sent beyond his lines into the lines of their friends; that
it must be distinctly understood that treason, expressed or
implied, would not be tolerated in his department.
On the 5th of May, 1863, Vallandigham, a resident of the
State of Ohio, and a citizen of the United States, was arrested
at his residence and taken to Cincinnati, and there imprisoned. On the following day, he was arraigned before a
military commission on a charge of having expressed sympathies for those in arms against the Government of the
United States, and for having uttered, in a speech at a public
meeting, disloyal sentiments and opinions, with the object
and purpose of weakening the power of the Government in
its efforts for the suppression of an unlawful rebellion.
The specification under the charge was, that he, the said
Vallandigham, a citizen of Ohio, on the 1st of May, 1863, at
Mount Vernon, in Knox County, Ohio, did publicly address
a large meeting of persons, and did utter sentiments, in
words or to the effect, "that the present war was a wicked,
cruel, and unnecessary war, one not waged for the preservation of the Union, but for the purpose of crushing out liberty
and to erect a despotism; a war for the freedom of the blacks
and the enslavement of the whites; and that if the administration had not wished btherwise, that the war could have
been honorably terminated long ago; that peace might have
been honorably made by listening to the proposed intermediation of France; that propositions, by which the Southern
States could be won back, and the South guaranteed their
rights under the Constitution, had been rejected the day
before the late battle of Fredericksburg by Lincoln and hit
minions, meaning the President of the United States, and
those under him in authority. Also charging that the

Dec. 1863.]

Ex

PAlaTE VALLANDIGHAM.
Statement of the case.

(4overnment of the United States was about to appoint
military marshals in every district to restrain the people of
their liberties, and to deprive them of their rights and privileges, characterizing General Order No. 88, from headquarters of the Department of the Ohio, as a base usurpation
of arbitrary authority, inviting his hearers to resist the
same, by saying, the sooner the people inform the minions
of usurped power that they will not submit to such restrictions upon their liberties, the better; and adding, that he
was at all times and upon all occasions resolved to do what
he could to defeat the attempts now being made to build up
a monarchy upon*the ruins of our free government, and
-asserting that he firmly believed, as he had said six months
ago, that the men in power are attempting to establish a
despotism in this country, more cruel and oppressive than
ever existed before."
The prisoner, on being arraigned, denied the jurisdiction
of the military commission, and refused to plead either to
the charge or specification. Thereon, the members of the
commission, after private consultation, directed the judge
advocate to enter a plea of Not Guilty, and to proceed with
the trial, with an allowance to the petitioner to call witnesses
to rebut the evidence which might be introduced against
him to establish the charge. The next day the commission
proceeded with the trial. Seven members of it were present, and tried the charge in due form of military law. The
prisoner exercised his right to call witnesses, and to crossexamine those who were sworn for the prosecution. At his
request he had the aid of counsel, and the court adjourned
to enable him to procure it. Three gentlemen of his own
choice attended; but for some cause, only known to them-

selves and their client, they remained in an adjoining room
during the trial, without having been introduced before the
commission, though it expressly authorized it to be done,
saying that it had adjourned to permit the prisoner to obtain
their presence. The prisoner was informed by the judge
advocate, when he closed his evidence, that no other witnesses would be introduced. He then offered the Hon. S. S

246

EX PARTE VALLANDIGHAM.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

Cox as a witness in his behalf. This gentleman was interrogated in chief, without being cross-examined, and it was
admitted by the judge advocate, that if three other persons
who had been summoned to appear as witnesses for the
prisoner had appeared, but who were not in court, that their
evidence would have been substantially the same as Mr. Cox
had given. Here the accused closed his testimony, and then
read to the commission a statement, which, with the other
proceedings of the trial, was forwarded to the judge advocate general, and was inserted in the record.
It began with the declaration, that he had been arrested
without due process of law, without a warrant from any
judicial officer; that he was then in a military prison, and
had been served with a charge and specifications, as in a
court-martial or military commission; that he was not either
in the land or naval forces of the United States, nor in the
militia in the actual service of the United States, and, therefore, not triable for any cause by any such court; that he was
subject, by the express terms of the Constitution, to arrest
only by due process of law or judicial warrant, regularly
issued upon affidavit by some officer or court of competent
jurisdiction for the trial of citizens; that he was entitled to
be tried on an indictment or presentment of a grand jury of
such court, to a speedy and public trial, and also by an impartial jury of the State of Ohio, to be confronted with witnesses against him, to have compulsory process for witnesses
in his behalf, the assistance of counsel for his defence, by
evidence and argument according to the common law and
the usages of judicial courts;-all those he demanded as his
right, as a citizen of the United States, under the Constitution of the United States. He also alleged that the offence
of which he is charged is not known to the Constitution of
the United States, nor to any law thereof; that they were
words spoken to the people of Ohio, in an open and public
political meeting, lawfully and peaceably assembled under
the Constitution, and upon full notice; that they were
words of criticism upon the policy of the public servants of
the people, by which policy it was alleged that the welfare

Dec. 1863.]

Ex PARTE

VALLANDIGHAM.

Statement of the case.

of the country was not promoted. That they were used as
an appeal to the people to change that policy, not by force,
but by free elections and the ballot-box; that it is not
pretended that he counselled disobedience to the Constitution or resistance to the law or lawful authority; that he had
never done so, and that beyond this protest he had nothing
further to submit.
The judge advocate replied, that so far as the statement
called in question the jurisdiction of the commission, that
had been decided by the authority convening and ordering the trial, nor had the commission, at any time, been
willing to entertain the objection; that as far as any implications or inferences designed or contemplated by the statement of the accused, his rights to counsel and to witnesses
for his defence, he had enjoyed the allowance of both, and
process for his witnesses, which had been issued; and that
as to the facts charged in the specification, they were to be
determined by the evidence ;-that his criminality was a
question peculiarly for the commission, and that he had
submitted the case to its consideration. The commission
was then cleared for consideration.
The finding and sentence were, that Vallandigham was
guilty of the charge and specification, except so much of the
latter, "as that propositions by which the Southern States could
be won back and guaranteedin their rights under the Constitution
had been rejected the day before the battle of _Fredericksburg, by
Lincoln and his minions, meaning the President of the
United States, and those under him in authority;" and the
words, "asserting that he firmly believed, as he had asserted six
months ago, that the men in power are attemnpting to establish a
despotismn in this country more oppressive than ever existed befoe." As to those words the prisoner was not guilty; but
of the charge he was guilty, and the commission, therefore,
sentenced him to be placed in close confinement in some
fortress of the United States, to be designated by the commanding officer of this department, there to be kept during
Ite war.

The finding and sentence were approved and confirmed

Ex

PARTE VALLANDIGHAM.

[sup. ot

Opinion of the court.

by General Burnside, in an order bearing date the 16th of
May, 1863, and Fort Warren was designated as the place of
imprisonment. On the 19th of May, 1863, the President,
in commutation of the sentence, directed Major-General
Burnside to send the prisoner, without delay, to the headquarters of General Rosecrans, then in Tennessee, to be by
him put beyond our military lines; which order was executed.
In support of the motion for the certiorari,and against the
jurisdiction of the military commission, it was urged that the
latter was prohibited by the act of March 3d, 1863, for enrolling and calling out the national forces (ยง30, 12 Stat. at Large,
736), as the crimes punishable in it by the sentence of a courtmartial or military commission, applied only to persons who
are in the military service of the United States, and subject
to the articles of war. And also, that by the Constitution
itself, ยง3, art. 3, all crimes, except in cases of impeachment,
were to be tried by juries in the State where the crime had
been committed, and when not. committed within any State,
at such place as Congress may by law have directed; and
that the military commission could have no jurisdiction to
try the petitioner, as neither the charge against him nor its
specifications imputed to him any offence known to the law
of the land, and that General Burnside had no authority to
enlarge the jurisdiction of a military commission by the
General Order No. 38, or otherwise.
Mr. Justice WAYNE, after stating the case, much as precedes, delivered the opinion of the court:
General Burnside acted in the matter as the general commanding the Ohio Department, in conformity with the instructions for the government of the armies of the United
States, approved by the President of the United States, and
published by the Assistant Adjutant-General, by order of the
Secretary of War, on the 24th of April, 1863.*
* They were prepared by Francis Leiber, LL.D., and were revised by a
board of officers, of which Major-General E. A. Hitchcock was president

Dec. 1863.]

EX PARTE VALLANDIGHAM.
Opinion of the court.

It is affirmed in these instructions,* that military jurisdiction is of two kinds. First., that which is conferred and defined by statute; second, that which is derived from the common law of war. "Military offences, under the statute,
must be tried in the manner therein directed; but military
offences, which do not come within the statute, must be tried
and punished under the common law of war. The character
of the courts which exercise these jurisdictions depends upon
the local law of each particular county."
In the armies of the United States, the first is exercised
by courts-martial, while cases which do not come within the
"rules and reguilations of war," or the jurisdiction conferred
by statute or court-martial, are tried by military commissions.
These jurisdictions are applicable, not only to war with
foreign nations, but to a rebellion, when a part of a country
wages war against its legitimate government, seeking to
throw off all allegiance to it, to set up a government of its own.
Our first remark upon the motion for a certiorari is, that
there is no analogy between the power given by the Constitution and law of the United States to the Supreme Court,
and the other inferior courts of the United States, and to the
judges of them, to issue such processes, and the prerogative
power by which it is done in England. The purposes for
which the writ is issued are alike, but there is no similitude
in the origin of the power to do it. In England, the Court
of King's Bench has a superintendence over all courts of an
inferior criminal jurisdiction, and may, by the plenitude of
its power, award a certiorari to have any indictment removed
and brought before it; and where such certiorari is allowable, it is awarded at the instance of the king, because every
indictment is at the suit of the king, and he has a prerogative of suing in whatever court he pleases. The courts of
the United States derive authority to issue such a writ from
the Constitution and the legislation of Congress. To place
the two sources of the right to issue the writ in obvious contrast, and in application to the motion we are considering
*1,

18.

Ex

PARTE VALLANDIGHAM.

[Sup. t

Opinion of the court.

for its exercise by this court, we will cite so much of the
third article of the Constitution as we think will best illustrate the subject.
"The judicial power of the United States shall be vested
in one Supreme Court, and in such inferior courts as the Congress may, from time to time, ordain and establish." "The
judicial power shall extend to all cases in law and equity,
arising under the Constitution, the laws of the United States.
and treaties made or which shall be made under their authority; to all cases affecting ambassadors, other public ministers and consuls," &c., &c., and "in all cases affecting ambassadors, other ministers and consuls, and those in which a State shall
be a party, the Supreme Court shall have originaljurisdiction. In
all the other cases before mentioned, the Supreme Court
shall have appellate jurisdiction, both as to law and fact, with
such exceptions and under such regulations as the Congress
shall make." Then Congress passed the act to establish the
judicial courts of the United States,* and in the 13th section of it declared that the Supreme Court shall have exclusively all such jurisdiction of suits or proceedings against
ambassadors or other public ministers or their domestics or
their domestic servants as a court of law can have or exercise consistently with the laws of nations,and original, but not exclusive jurisdiction, of suits brought by ambassadors, or other
public ministers, or in which a consul or vice-consul shall be
a party. In the same section, the Supreme Court is declared to have appellate jurisdiction in cases hereinafter expressly provided. In this section, it will be perceived that
the jurisdiction given, besides that which is mentioned in the
preceding part of the section, is an exclusive jurisdiction of
suits or proceedings against ambassadors or other public
ministers or their domestics or domestic servants, as a court
of law cin have or exercise consistently with the laws of nations, and original but not exclusive jurisdiction of all suits
brought by ambassadorsor other public ministers, or in which a
consul or vice-consul shall be a party, thus guarding them
1 Stat. at Large, 73, chap. 20.

Dec. 1863.]

Ex

PARTE VALLANDIGHAM.
Opinion of the court.

from all other judicial interference, and giving to them the
right to prosecute for their own benefit in the courts of the
United States. Thus substantially reaffirming the constitutional declaration, that the Supreme Court had original
jurisdiction in all cases affecting ambassadors and other
public ministers and consuls, and those in which a State shall
be a party, and that it shall have appellate jurisdiction in all
other cases before mentioned, both as to law and fact, with
such exceptions and under such regulations as the Congress
shall make.
The appellate powers of the Supreme Court, as granted
by the Constitution, are limited and regulated by the acts of
Congress, and must be exercised subject to the exceptions
and regulations made by Congress.* In other words, the
petition before us we think not to be within the letter or
spirit of the grants of appellate jurisdiction to the Supreme
Court. It is not in law or equity within the meaning of
those terms as used in the 3d article of the Constitution.
Nor is a military commission a court within the meaning of
the 14th section of the Judiciary Act of 1789. That act is
denominated to be one to establish the judicial courts of the
United States, and the 14th section declares that all the "before-mentioned courts" of the United States shall have
power to issue writs of scire facias, habeas corpus, and all
other writs not specially provided for by statute, which may
be necessary for the exercise of their respective jurisdictions,
agreeably to the principles and usages of law. The words
in the section, "the before-mentioned" courts, can onlyhave
reference to such courts as were established in the preceding
part of the act, and excludes the idea that a court of military
commission can be one of them.
Whatever may be the force of Vallandigham's protest,
that he was not triable by a court of military commission, it
is certain that his petition cannot be brought within the 14th
section of the act; and further, that the court cannot, with* Durousseau v. The United States, 6 Cranch, 314; Barry v.
oIercein, 5
Howard, 119; United States v. Curry, 6 Id., 113 ; Forsyth v. United States,
9 Id., 571.

Ex

PARTE VALLANDIGHAM.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

out disregarding its frequent decisions and interpretation of
the Constitution in respect to its judicial power, originate a
writ of certiorari to review or pronounce any opinion upon
the proceedings of a military commission. It was natural,
before the sections of the 3d article of the Constitution had
been fully considered in connection with the legislation of
Congress, giving to the courts of the United States power to
issue writs of scire facias, habeas corpus, and all other writs
not specially provided for by statute, which might be necessary for the exercise of their respective jurisdiction, that by
some members of the profession it should have been thought,
and some of the early judges of the Supreme Court also, that
the 14th section of the act of 24th September, 1789, gave to
this court a right to originate processes of habeas corpus ad
subjiciendum, writs of certiorari to review the proceedings of
the inferior courts as a matter of original jurisdiction, without being in any way restricted by the constitutional limitation, that in all cases affecting ambassadors, other public ministers and consuls, and those in which a State shall be a
party, the Supreme Court shall have original jurisdiction.
This limitation has always been considered restrictive of any
other original jurisdiction. The rule of construction of the
Constitution being, that affirmative words in the Constitution, declaring in what cases the Supreme Court shall have originaljurisdiction, must be construed negatively as to all other cases.* The
nature and extent of the court's appellate jurisdiction and
its want of it to issue writs of habeas corpus ad subjiciendum
have been fully discussed by this court at different times.
We do not think it necessary, however, to examine or cite
many of them at this time. We will annex a list to this
opinion, distinguishing what this court's action has been- in
cases brought to it by appeal from such applications as have
been rejected, when it has been asked that itwould act upon
the matter as one of original jurisdiction.
* 3Marbury v. Madison, 1 Cranch, 137; State of New Jersey v. State of
New York, 5 Peters, 284; Kendall v. The United States, 12 Id., 637; Cohens v. Virginia, 6 Wheaton, 264.

Dec. 1863.]

Ex

PARTE VALLANDIGAI.
Opinion of the court.

In the case Exparte 1filburn,* Chief Justice Marshall said,
as the jurisdiction of the court is appellate, it must first be
shown that it has the power to award a habeas corpus. In
re Kaine,t the court denied the motion, saying that the court's
jurisdiction to award the writ was appellative, and that the
case had not been so presented to it, and for the same cause
refused to issue a writ of certiorari, which in the course of
the argument was prayed for. In .Ex parte X2etzger,$ it was
determined that a writ of certiorari could not be allowed to
examine a commitment by a district judge, under the treaty
between the United States and France, for the reason that
the judge exercised a special authority, and that no provision
had been made for the revision of his judgment. So does a
court of military commission exercise a special authority.
In the case before us, it was urged that the decision in Metzger's case had been made upon the ground that the proceeding of the district judge was not judicial in its character,
but that the proceedings of the military commission were so ; and
further, it was said that the ruling in that case had been overruled by a majority of the judges in Raines' case. There is
a misapprehension of the report of the latter case, and as to
the judicial character of the ptoceedings of the military commission, we cite what was said by this court in the case of
The United States v. Pcrreira.ยง
"The powers conferred by Congress upon the district
judge and the secretary are judicial in their nature, for judgment and discretion must be exercised by both of them, but
it is not judicial in either case, in the sense in which judicial
power is granted to the courts of the United States." Nor
can it be said that the authority to be exercised by a military
commission is judicial in that sense. It involves discretion
to examine, to decide and sentence, but there is no original
jurisdiction in the Supreme Court to issue a writ of habeas
corpus ad subjiciendum-to review or reverse its proceedings,
or the writ of certiorari to revise the proceedings of a military commission.
* 9 Peters, 704.

- 14 Howard, 103.

5 Id., 176.

13-Id., 48

DUNHAM V. RAILWAY COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

And as to the President's action in such matters, and those
acting in them under his authority, we refer to the opinions
expressed by this court, in the cases of lJartinv. l7Iott,* and
Dynes v. Hoover.t
For the reasons given, our judgment is, that the writ of
certiorari prayed for to revise and review the proceedings of
the military commission, by which Clement L. Vallandigham
was tried, sentenced, and imprisoned, must be denied, and
so do we order accordingly.
CERTIORARI REFUSED.

NELSON, J., GRIER, J., and FIELD, J., concurred in
the result of this opinion. MILLER, J., was not present
at the argument, and took no part.

DUNHAM V. THE CINCINNATI, PERU, &c., RAILWAY COMPANY.
1. A mortgage byarailway company of their "road, built and to be built,"the company, at the date of their mortgage, having built a part of their
road, but not built the residue,-has precedence, even as regards the
unbuilt part of the claim of a contractor who, in the inability of the
company to finish the road, had himself finished it under an agreement
that he should retain possession -of the road and apply its earnings to
the liquidation of the debt due him, and who had never surrendered
possession of the road to the company. DAvis, J., dissenting.
2. Where a mortgage given by a railway company to secure a number of
bonds provides that in case of a sale or other proceedings to coerce payment of interestor principal,all bonds and the interest accrued shall be
a lien in common therewith, and the interest accrued thereon shall be
equally due and payable, and entitled to a pro rata dividend of the proceeds of sale,-with this superadded declaration, however, to wit, "but
in no case shall the principalof any bond be considered as due until twenty
years from the date thereof" (this being the term which the bonds on
their faces had to run)-it is error, after a sale, under the mortgage,
within the twenty years, to give precedence to the overdue interest
warrants. The superadded clause will be interpreted only as excluding
an inference that a bondholder might bring an action for the princip'al
before it became due by its terms.

THIS was an appeal from a decree of the Circuit Court of
the United States for the District of Indiana, made in a case
12 V heaton, pp. 28 to 35, inclusive.

t 20 Howard, 65.

