Dec. 1863.]

BLOSSOM v. RAiLROAD COMPANY.

655

Statement of the ease.

BLOSSOM v. THE MmwAuEE, &c., RAILROAD COMPANY.
A bidder at a marshal's sale made on foreclosure of a mortgage in a Federal
court below, may, by his bid, though no party to the suit originally, so
far be made a party to the proceedings in that court as to be entitled to
an appeal here. *Whether or not, this court will not dismiss an appeal
by such person, on mere mofion of the other side; the decision involving
the merits of the case, and such an examination of the whole record as
can only be made on full hearing.

A DECREE foreclosing a mortgage and ordering a sale of
the road had been obtained in the District Court of the
United States for the District of Wisconsin, in a suit by one
Biswp and others against The Milwaukee and Chicago Railroad
Company; and the road being offered for sale by the marshal,
under the decree, Blossom, the appellant in this case, made
a bid for the property. The sale was suspended at this
point, and never actually proceeded further. Blossom then
went into the District Court, and by petition prayed, to have
the sale completed and confirmed. His application was,
however, refused. From this order of refusal he took an
appeal,-the present suit. A motion was now made to dismiss this appeal, the grounds of the motion being these:
1. That the appellant was not a party to the suit in the
District Court, and was therefore not entitled to prosecute
an appeal.
2. That his right had accrued in the mere process of executing the final decree; and that, accordingly, no appeal lay.
3. That the refusal of the District Court to confirm or
complete the sale was a matter within its discretion, and,
therefore, not the subject of review here.
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
1. Is the appellant so far a party to the original suit that
he can appeal?
It is certainly true that he cannot appeal from the original decree of foreclosure, nor from any other order or decree
of the court made prior to his bid. It, however, seems to
be well settled, that after a decree adjudicating certain rights

BLOSSOM

V. RAILROAD COMPANY.

[Sup. or.

Opinion of the court.

between the parties to a suit, other persons having no previous interest in the litigation may become connected with
the case, in the course of the subsequent proceedings, in
such a manner as to subject them to the jurisdiction of the
court, and render them liable to its orders; and that they
may in like manner acquire rights in regard to the subjectmatter of the litigation, which the court is bound to protect.
Sureties, signing appeal bonds, stay bonds, delivery bond-,
and receipters under writs of attachment, become quasiparties
to the proceedings, and subject themselves to the jurisdiction
of the court, so that summary judgments may be rendered
on their bonds or recognizances. So in the case of a credi.
tor's bill, or other suit, by which a fund is to be distributed
to parties, some of whom are not before the court; these are
at liberty to come before the master after the decree, and
establish their claims to share in the distribution.
A purchaser or bidder at a master's sale in chancery subjects himself quoad hoc to the jurisdiction of the court, and
can be compelled to perform his agreement specifically. It
would seem that he must acquire a corresponding right to
appear and claim, at the hands of the court, such relief as
the rules of equity proceedings entitle him to.
In Delayplaine v. Lawrence,* Chancellor Walworth says,
that "in sales made by masters under decrees and orders of
this court, the purchasers who have bid off the property and
paid their deposits in good faith, are considered as having
inchoate rights which entitle them to a hearing upon the
question whether the sales shall be set aside. And if the
court errs by setting aside the sale improperly, they have the
right to carry the question by appeal to a higher tribunal."
This principle, to which we see no objection, seems to
decide the point before us in regard to parties to the suit.
2. The next grouad assumed is that the right of appellant
having accrued in the mere process of executing the final
decree of the court, no appeal lies in such case.
* 10 Paigs, 602; see, also, Calvert on Parties to Suits in Equity ; side pages
51, 58; note page 61.

Dec. 1863.]

BLOSSOMI V. RAILROAD COMPANY.

657

Opinion of the court.

Although this court has frequently decided that where the
act complained of was a mere ministerial duty, necessarily
growing out of the decree which was being carried into
effect, no appeal would lie, it has never decided that in no
case arising after a decree, which is final only in the sense
which would allow it to be appealed, will an appeal be
allowed from an order of the court, however it might affect
important interests, or decide matters not before the court
when the first decree was rendered. Such a doctrine would
place a very large proportion of the most important matters
adjudged by courts of chancery beyond the reach of an
appeal. On the contrary, this court has repeatedly considered appeals from the decrees of the Circuit Courts, upon
matters arising after the case had been here, and the courts
below had entered decrees in accordance-with the directions
of this court. At the present term, in the case of A. B.
Orchard v. John .Hughes, the court refused to dismiss an
appeal from an order confn'ming a sale under a decree of
foreclosure, and directed that the case should be heard, with
the appeal from the principal decree in the suit which or.
dered the sale.*
8. It is said that the act of the court, in refusing to confirni or complete the sale, was entirely within its discretion,
and, therefore, cannot be reviewed here.
The case of Delaplaine v. Lawrence, just cited, seems to
imply a different doctrine. However this may appear on
investigation, we think that its decision involves the merits
of the case before us, and requires such an examination of
the whole record as can only be made fairly on a full hearing. We are not disposed to deprive the appellant of this,
by dismissing Yris appeal on motion.
MOTION OVERRULED.

-y-This -was a motion, and was heard before the present reporter was appo nted t office. These factr account for therebeing no report of the matf or
In this volume.-REP

VOL. I.

