UNITED STATES

v.

AUGUISOLA.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

subject of letters patent, he may continue to use it until it is
worn out, or he may repair it or improve upon it as he
pleases, in the same manner as if dealing with property of
any other kind. Webbs. Pat. Cases, 413, note p.
Considering that the question has been several times decided by this court, we do not think it necessary to pursue
the ipvestigation. The decree of the Circuit Court is therefore
AFFIRMED WITH COSTS.

UNITED STATES V. AUGUISOLA.
Where no suspicion, from the absence of the usual preliminary documentary
evidence in the archives of the former government, arises as to the
genuineness of a Mexican grant produced, the general rule is, that
objections to the sufficiency of proof of its execution must be taken in
the court below. They cannot be taken in this court for the first time.
The tribunals of the United States, in passing upon the rights of the inhabitants of California to the property they claim under grants from the
Spanish and Mexican governments, must be governed by the stipulations of the treaty, the law of nations, the laws, usages, and customs of
the former government, the principles of equity, and the decisions of
the Supreme Court, so far as they are applicable. They are not required
to exact a strict compliance with every legal formality.
The United States v. Johnson (ante, p. 326) approved.

THIS was an appeal by the .UnitedStates from a decree of
the District Court for the Southern District of California,
confirming to one Auguisola a tract of land in California.
After the cession of California to the United States, Auguisola, who deraigned title fiom two persons (Lopez and
Arrellanes) exhibiting a grant that purported to be from the
Mexican governor, Micheltorena, laid his claim before the
board of commissioners, which the act of Congress of March
3, 1851, appointed to examine and decide on all claims to
lands in California purporting to be derived from Mexican
grants. He here produced from the archives of the Surveyor-General of California a petition from the grantees;
the petition being accompanied by a map of the land desired;

Dec. 1863.]

UNITED STATES v. AUGUIbOl..

Statement of the case.

the reports of the different officers to whom the matter was
referred for examination, and the concession of Governor
MIicheltorena, dated March 17, 1843, in which this governor
declares that the petitioner is, "proprietad del lerr"o blanado,"
or "owner of the land" in question. He produced, mor(.over, a formal grant of the governor, dated contemporane.
ously with the order of concession, and a record of possessioni delivered by the proper alcalde in 1847. ione of the
paies, however, whose names appear as grantors or actors
iD the various evidences of title, were called in the court
below as witnesses, proof of all the fundamental documents
having been made by a witness, who swore to the genuineness
of the various signatures. 1Yeither was the work known as
" Jimeno's Index"-a list of Mexican grants between the
years 1829 and 1845-introduced as part of the plaintiff's
evidence .of title, though the present grant purported, by
memorandum at its foot, "to be registered in the proper
book." The grant was produced from his private possession.
Supposing the papers, however, to be all genuine-a matter
about which no question was raised before the commissioners-the case was proprrly enough made out in respect
of occupancy, improvement, cultivation, stocking with cattle,
and other matters which were required by the Mexican laws;
the only difficulty being that the boundaries of the land, as
set forth in the papers and on the map, were so undefined
that they could not be ascertained nor surveyed; and that
the piece of land claimed had never been segregated from
the national domain. Auguisola's claim was accordingly
rejected by the commissioners. From this decision he appealed to the District Court; and having shown, by new
evidence, more definite boundaries than he had shown before,
the decree of the commissioners was reversed, and his claim
established. To this judgment of the District Court the
United States filed thirteen exceptions; being reasons, all of
them, to show why the claim of Auguisola was a bad one.
They were based on an alleged invalidity of the grant, on an
asserted illegality of the juridical possession; on the situation
of the land as respected the sea-coast; on the fact that it had
VOL. .

23

UNITED STATES V. AUGUISOLA.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the United States.

been occupied by missions and could not be colonized; that
it was incapable of identification; that one deed was on
unstamped paper; that the Departmental Assembly had not
approved the grant; that the land had not been properly
occupied and improved, and some other reasons of a similar
kind. Not one of the reasons, however, assigned fraud of any
kind; of which, indeed, so far as the r-ecord showed, there was no
suggestion anywhere below.
Mr. Wis, for the United States:
1. The grant, if genuine, is not legally proved: i, because
the evidence offered to authenticate it is secondary; and ii,
because no legal basis was laid for its introduction. The
parties whose names appear in the documentary evidences of
title as grantor, or witnesses, were not called as witnesses.
Nor was any legal ground laid for the omission. The only
evidence offered to authenticate the paper title is the testimony of a witness, who swears to the genuineness of all the
signatures to all the papers, from the grant down to the
record of judicial possession.
But this is not sufficient without calling the parties or accounting for their absence: i, because it is a departure from
the established order of proof; and ii, because the signatures
may be genuine, and yet the papers be forgeries, because
antedated.*
2. The grant is fraudulent and void. The first suspicious
circumstance against it is the fact before referred to, viz.,
the failure to call or to account for the absence, as witnesses,
of the original parties to the grant and accompanying papers.
If fraudulent, it is an ingenious device, whereby forgery may
be committed without perjury. In the absence of proof to
the contrary, the legal presumption is, that all these parties
were living and accessible. The fact that the governor, secretary, and others are not called as witnesses in support of the
authenticity and validity of grants, when accessible, is a circumstance entitled to weight against a grant.*
* United States v. Teschmaker, 22 Howard, 404, 405; Fuentes v. United
States, Id. 455, 456; Luco v. United.States, 28 Id., 534.

Dec. 1863.]

UNITUD STATES

v. AUGUISOLA.

355

Opinion of the court.

The second suspicious circumstance against it is, that this
grant is not mentioned in Jimeno's Index, nor is it shown to
be registered in any other contemporary record. Registry
is required by the regulations of 1828. Evidence of the registration of a grant must be produoed, or its absence accounted
for.* Jimeno's Index embraces all grants made from and
including the year 1830, to December 24,1844. As the grant
purports to have been made March 17, 1843, and to be
"registered in the proper book," if it had been made at that
date, it must have appeared in that Index, or in some other
contemporary record, in common with all other genuine
grants of that date. But no such record is produced. Its
absence, therefore, from those records, furnishes presumption
that the grant is a forgery.
Mr. Justice FIELD delivered the opinion of the court:
The respondent deraigns his title from Lopez and Arellanes, the alleged grantees of the Mexican governor, Micheltorena. In support of his claim before the board of commissioners, created under-the act of 1851, he produced from
the archives in the custody of the Surveyor-General of California the petition of the grantees for the land, the reports
of the different public officers to whom the same was referred for information as to the property and the petitioners,
the sketch or map accompanying the petition, and the concession of the governor, made on the 17th of March, 1843,
declaring the petitioners "owners of the land" in question.
He also produced a formal grant of the governor, bearing
the same date with the order of concession, and a record of
juridical possession delivered by the alcalde of the vicinage
in 1847. No question was raised before the commissioners
as to the genuineness of the several documents produced,
and with proof of the signatures attached to the above grant
and record, and that the grantees had constructed a house
upon the premises immediately after receiving the grant;
that the house was occupied by one of the grantees until the
* United States v. Teschmaker, 22 Howard, 405; United States v. Bol-

ton, 23 Id., 850

UNITED STATES

v.

AUGUISOLA.

[Slip. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

sale to the claimant, and has been occupied by the claimant
ever since, and that the land has been cultivated and used
for the pasturage of cattle since its first occupation, the case
was submitted. The board rejected the claim, not from any
conclusion that the papers produced were not genuine, but
solely upon the ground that the boundaries of the land
granted were vague and indefinite, and that the land had
not been segregated from the public domain. The case
being removed by appeal to the District Court, the attorney
of the United States, in answer to the claimant's petition
for a review of the decision of the commissioners, set forth
thirteen grounds for holding the claim invalid. Two of them
related to the alleged invalidity of the transfer from the
grantees to the claimant; two to the illegality of the juridical possession of the alcalde in 1847, and the remaining
grounds were substantially these: that the land was situated
within ten leagues of the sea-coast; that it was occupied by
the missions of the territory, and therefore could not be colonized; that the grant had not the conditions required by the
colonization law of 1824, or the regulations of 1828; that it
did not give in itself, or with the aid of the map produced,
any description by which the land could be identified; that it
was not executed upon lawfully stamped paper; that it had
not been approved by the Departmental Assembly, and that
the grantees had not complied with the conditions annexed
by constructing a house within a year, and inhabiting it and
cultivating the land, and soliciting the proper judge for juridical possession. No objection was made that the titlepapers produced were not genuine, or not executed at the
time they purport to have been executed, and the additional
evidence taken in the District Court was intended to show
the location and boundaries of the land, and thus remove the
objection to the confirmation given by the commissioners.
The District Court reversed the decision of the board, and
adjudged the claim of the respondent to be valid, and coniirmed it to the extent of three square leagues. From -his
decree the United States have appealed, and in this court
for the first time take the grounds, 1st, that the grant pro-

Dec. 1863.]

UNITED STATES V. AUGUISOLA.

357

Opinion of the court.

duced, even if genuine, was not legally proved; and, 2d, that
the grant is fraudulent and void.
The first objection arises from the fact that the governor
who signed, and the Secretary of State who attested the
grant, were not called to prove it or their absence accounted
for, and that the, instrument was admitted upon proof of
their signatures. The usual preliminary proceedings to tle
issue of a Mexican grant in colonization having been produced from the archives, there was no presumption against
the genuineness of the grant inquestion, requiring the strict
proof of its execution mentioned in the cases of The United
Stateq v. Teschmaker,* and Fuentes v. The United States.t
Under these circumstances, the objection should have been
urged before the commissioners or the District Court, and
notice thus given to the claimant to procure further proof by
calling the parties, or to show good reason for not calling
them. Where no suspicioin from the absence of the usual
preliminary documentary evidence arises, as to the genuineness of the instrument produced, the general rule is, that
objections to the sufficiency of the proof of its execution
must be urged in the first instance before the inferior tribunal. In the present case, it is possible that the governor
and secretary were without the jurisdiotion of the court at
the time the grant was produced, or the objection to the
proof may not have been urged by -the attorney of the
government, who was present when it was given, because
satisfied himself from other sources that the signatures were
genuine, and that the grant was executed at the time it purports to have been executed, or because of his knowledge
that the objection could have been readily obviated by testimony within the reach of the claimant.s
The objection that the grant is fraudulent and void rests
Mainly upon the allegation of counsel, that it is not mentioned in the list of expedientes known as "Jimeno's Index."
We say upon the allegation of counsel, for Jimeno's Index is
t Id., 443.
* 22 Howard, 392.
+ Pelletreau v. Jackson, 11 Wendell, 128; Jackson v. Waldron, 13.Id.,.184.

UNITED STATES V. AUGUISOLA.

[Sup. t

Opinion of the court.

not in evidence, nor was any proof ofiered of its contents,
and, under the circumstances of this case, if the fact were as
alleged, it would not be entitled to much weight.
To the objections urged by the appellants, and to all objections of a similar kind, the observations of Mr. Justice Grier,
in the case of The United States v. Johnson, decided at the
present term, are applicable. "In taking objections to these
Mexican grants," says the learned justice, "it ought to be
remembered, that the case is not brought here on a writ of
error with a bill of exceptions to the admission of every item
of testimony ofered and received below. Nor is it a part
of the duty of counsel representing the government, to urge
microscopic objections against an honest claimant, and
urge the forfeiture of his property for some oversight of the
commissioners in not requiring proof according to the strict
rules of the common law. When there is any just suspicion
of fraud or forgery, the defence should be made below, and
the evidence to support the charge should appear on the
record. If testimony of witnesses is alleged to be unworthy
of belief, the record should show some reason to justify the
court in rejecting it. The former opinions of this court may
be referred to, on questions of law, but cannot be quoted as
evidence of the character of living witnesses."
To these observations we will only add, that the United
States have never sought by their legislation to evade the
obligation devolved upon them by the treaty of Guadalupe
Hidalgo to protect the rights of property of the inhabitantsof the ceded territory, or to discharge it in a narrow and
illiberal manner. They have directed their tribunals, in
passing upon the rights of the inhabitants, to be governed
by the stipulations of the treaty, the law of nations, the
laws, usages, and customs of the former government, the
principles of equity, and the decisions of the Supreme Court,
so far as they are applicable. They have not desired the
tribunals to conduct their investigations as if the rights of
the inhabitants to the property which they claim depended
upon the nicest observance of every legal formality.
have desired to act as a great nation, not seeking, in ex.

Dec. 1863.]

SCHUCHARDT

v.ALLEINS.

Statement of the case.

ing their authority over the ceded country, to enforce forfeitures, but to afford protection and security to all just
rights which could have been claimed from the government
they superseded.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

SCHUCHARDT V. ALLENS.
1. If no exception have been taken below to a question asked on trial, no
objection can be made to it here.
2. If the answer to a question asked may icnd to prove the matters alleged
in the narr.-if it be a link in the chain of proof-the question may be
asked. It is not necessary that it be sufficient to prove them.
8. In an action for false warranty, whether the action be in assumpsit or in
tort, a scienterneed not be averred; and if averred, need not be proved.
4. Authority without restriction to an agent to sell carries with it authority
to warrant.
5. Where a contract of sale is complete, the vendor cannot hold the vendee
to terms not agreed on, by sending him a bill or memorandum of sale,
with such terms set out upon it, as that ,,no claims for deficiencies or
imperfections will be allowed, unless made within seven days from the
receipt of goods."
6. Whenever the evidence is not legally sufficient to warrant a recovery, it
is the duty of the court to instruct the jury accordingly. But if there
be evidence from which the jury may draw an inference in the matter,
the case ought not to be taken from them. It is not necessary, in order
for the court properly to leave the case with the jury, that the evidence
leads unavoidably to the conclusion that the plaintiff has no case. If
there be evidence proper to be left to the jury it should be left; and a
remedy for a wrong verdict sought in a motion for new trial.

Tnis was an action on the case for false warranty, and for
deceit in the sale of one hundred casks of Dutch madder;
and was brought in the Circuit Court for the Southern District of New York. The declaration contained seven counts.
The first three were for false warranty(without any scienter),
1st. That it was a prime article.
2d. That it was pure and unadulterated.
8d. That it was good, merchantable Dutch madder.
The last three counts were for deceitful representations(witb
stienter) of the same facts. The fourth count, aftei stating

