Dec.1863.]

UNITED
8
STATES v. D'

GUIRRE.

Statement of the case.

in force. According to its provisions parties might lawfully
contract for any rate of interest not exceeding ten per cent.
per annum. The contract of Miller was therefore valid.
DECREE AFFIRMED WITH COSTS..

UNITED STATES v. D'AGUIRRE.
Where from a tract of land known by a particular name grants of two parcels had been made, and a petition for a grant of the surplus remaining
was presented to the Governor of the Department of California, and
.to the description of the land solicited, these words were added, " the
extent of which is about five leagues more or less"-Held, that these
words were not a limitation upon the quantity solicited, but a mere
conjectural estimate of the extent of the surplus.
The case distinguished from The United States v. Fossat (20 Howard, 413),
and Yontz v. The Uniied Stas (23 Id., 499).
APPEAL by the United States from the District Court for
the Southern District of California; the case being thus:
D'Aguirre, in right of his wife Donna Maria Estudillo,
claimed a tract of land in California under a grant from the
Mexican Government. The tract was parcel of a larger
tract, known as the "Rancho of Old and New San Jacinto."
Two grants had been made of parts from this general tract;
the surplus embracing, in fact, about eleven leagues, being that
which was claimed by the respondent.
Having presented a petition to the Board of Commissioners, appointed by act of March 3d, 1851, to ascertain and
settle private land claims in California, for a confirmation of
his claim, D'Aguirre's title as it appeared before the board
was thus:
His original petition to the prefect for the land, made in
behalf of his wife, set forth "that there was remaining a
sobrante," in the tract or rancho of San Jacinto, and that his
wife, "requiring tb:e said remnant, ... solicited the prefect's
assistance to obtain the mentioned land, the extent of which
was aboutfive leagues, more or less," within the limits of the
known rancho of San Jacinto, "the general plat of which is

UNITED STATES V. D'AGUIRRE.

[Slip. Ct.

Statement of the case.

in the office of the Secretary of State, and shown in its total
extent that it is bounded thus: north by the ranchos of "urupa
and San Bernardino, south by Temecula, west by Unapia, and
east by Gorgonia." The petition continued: "Your honor
will also cause previous observations to be taken."
The petition to the prefect was followed by the report of
that officer to the governor upon it. The report says: "The
land petitioned for is that remaining vacar from the land of the
Old and New San Jacinto, and which is bounded by the lands
mentioned in the petition; and the copy of the plat, which
I have under my eyes, proves to be correct with the original
which exists in the government." The document proceeds:
"Inasmuch as it does not appear to be strange property,
that which is claimed as part overplus, and never to have
been the same declared, &c., it seems to me that there can
result no obstacle to this concession. Notwithstanding that
which is represented,your excellency, with more prudence, will resolve upon that which becomes its superior will."
Next followed,THE CONCESSION Or THE GOVERNOR, PIo PICO.
ANGELES, May 9, 1846.
Having seen the petition with which commences this espediente, the report, &c., with the rest that has been reported, and
finding the whole in conformity with the laws and regulation,
&c., I declare to Donna Maria Estudillo d'Aguirre the property
in fee of the land remaining in Old and New San Jacinto, con.
formably as shows the general map, which agrees with all the
antecedents. Let the respective title be delivered to the claimant, and let this espediente be reserved to submit to the approbation of the most excellent Assembly, &e.
Pio PIco.
JOSE MATIAS MORENO, Secretary.

Coming after this document of " Concession" was, what is
called the Grant, a document from the same governor, Pio
Pico, in substance reciting that D'Aguirre, in the name of his
wife, had solicited for her, "the overplus land resultingfrom the
rancho of Old and New San Jacinto, concerning which, the

investigations being previously made" the governor proceeds to

Dec. 1863.]

DNITED STATES V. D'AGUIRRIE.
Statement of the case.

say, "I have decreed this day that it be conceded to her, the
mentioned land, declaring to her the property of the same in fee by
these present despatches." The document continues:
"She shall solicit the respective judge to give her juridical
possession in virtue of this decree, thereby establishing the boundarieswith the necessary landmarks:
"The land of which donation is made to her, is that which
remains as overplus in the ranchos of Old and New San Jacinto,
as will appear by the general map of both ranchos, and which
corresponds with their espedientes.
" The magistrate who shall give tlie possession shall have -it
surveyed conformably to the ordinanza. commencing the surveys
from the boundaries of Jose Antonio Estudillo and of Don Miguel
de Pedrorena, and he will advise the government of the number qf
(sitos de ganado mayor) square leagues it contains."

Next came the report of the Committee on Vacant Lands,
which, declaring that D'Aguirre's petition in relation to the
tract remaining as overplus, having been granted to him in
conformity with the laws on the subject-matter, the said
concession "of the tract which remains as overplus from the
ranchos of Old and New San Jacinto is approved." An
approval by the "most excellent Departmental Assembly of
the foregoing decree" concluded the title of D'Aguirre.
The surplus which D'Aguirre had asked for, representing
its extent as being about five leagues, more or less, contained
in fact, as already mentioned, about eleven leagues.
The question was, of course, as to the amount embraced
by the grant; that is to say, whether D'Aguirre's representation in his petition for the "surplus," that its extent was
five leagues, more or less, would confine the grant to a surplus containing but five leagues, or whether the grant would
carry the entire "surplus" in its full meaning, though that
surplus contained eleven. The board of commissioners considered that it only carried five, and rejected D'Aguirre's
claim for the entire surplus of eleven. But on appeal, the
District Court was of a different opinion, and conffirmed the
claim; giving to D'Aguirre the surplus remaining within the
boundaries of the general tract, to the extent of eleven square

314

UMITED STATES C. D'AGUIiRRE.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for D'Aguirre.

leagues, unless there was less than eleven within such boundaries, in which case of such less quantity the confirmation
was limited to it. It was from this decree that the United
States took the present appeal.
Mr. Wills, for the United States: There has been here, to
say no more, such plain misconception on the part of the
Mexican government as to what it was granting-that misconception being brought about by misrepresentation of facts
on the part of D'Aguirre-that the court will withhold its
aid. Certainly the quantity of land which the government
would convey entered largely into its determination, whether
it would or would not convey it all; and when D'Aguirre
represented that the "sobrante" or surplus contained five
leagues or perhaps less, when in fact it contained more than
double the amount of five, there is such error as the court
will relieve against. The surplus is but the subject of the
grant, and justice will be done by giving five leagues in the
surplus described.
In The United States v. Tf ossat,* this court decided that where
there is no natural boundary or descriptive call for the termination of lines of a tract of land, and the quantity called
for in the grant is "one league of the larger size, a little more
or less," the survey must include only a league. The words "a
little more or less must be rejected." It is also decided, in Yontz
v. The United States,t that the generality of the grant maybe
sustained by the words of the petition; that the petition and
the concession must be taken as one act, and the extent of the
grant limited by the prayer of the petition. In that case
the grant was limited to the two leagues prayed for in the petition.
Mr. Williams, contra: The papers in the case iterate and
reiterate that the grant is for the surplus. There is not in
one of them, except in the petition itself, which also is for
the "surplus," an allusion to quantity; and the petitioner re* 20 Howard, 418.

t 28 Id., 498.

Dec.

1863.]

UNITED STATES V. D'AGUIRRE.

315

Opinion of the court.

quests the Mexican government to take "observations" previously to granting. Every part of the case shows also, that
the government proceeded not less advisedly than it did iu
every case.
The cases cited do not apply. The decision in The United
States v. _Fossat was, that the call in the grant for "one league,
a little more or less," must be taken as "one league" when
located and surveyed by the United States. In the case at
bar no quantity is named in the grant, and the only limitation is that prescribed by the colonization law, namely,
eleven leagues.
In Yontz v. The'United States, the petitioner confined his
application to "two leagues, a little more or less." The grant
named no quantity, but reserved the surplus. The surplus
of what? Clearly of the two leagues applied for. But there
is no reservation of the surplus in the grant to D'Aguirre.
On the contrary, the petition was for the surplus, which surplus he estimated at five leagues, a little more or less. The
distinction is plain.
Mr. Justice FIELD delivered the opinion of the court:
The only question for consideration in this case relates to
the quantity embraced by the grant to the claimant. The
District Court confirmed her title to lands lying within certain designated boundaries, not exceeding in extent eleven
square leagues, if any surplus over that quantity existed.
The United States seek to restrict the confirmation to five
square leagues, and base their appeal on the language of the
petition upon which the grant was made. It appears from
the record that two previous grants had been issued for land
situated within a tract known as the ":Rancho of Old and
New San .Jacinto," and that a surplus still remained. For
this surplus the petition was presented, and to the description of the land which it gives, these words are added: "the
extent of which is about five leagues, more or less." It is
upon these words, as showing that the petition was only for
five leagues, that the counsel of the government rely. But
it is evident that they constitute a mere conjectural estimate

UNITED STATES V. D'AGUIRRE.

[Sup. ot,

Opinion of the court.

of the extent of the surplus. The petition is for the grant
of a specific tract, not for any particular quantity. The report of the prefect, to whom the petition was in the first instance presented, to be forwarded to the governor, describes
the land "as that remaining vacant from the Old and New
San Jacinto," and does not mention its extent. The concession of the governor declares to the claimant, "the property
in fee of the land remaining in Old and New San Jacinto,"
and .does not designate any quantity. The formal grant
issued recites that the claimant has solicited "the overplus
land resulting from the rancho of Old and New San Jacinto,"
and the third condition annexed describes the land "of which
donation is made," in similar terms.
It is clear upon the face of the papers that the original
concession and formal grant were for the entire surplus remaining within the designated boundaries, subject only to
the limitation imposed by the colonization law of 1824, upon
the power of the governor. As he could only cede to the
extent of eleven square leagues, the grant could only convey
that quantity whatever the amount of the overplus.
The case of The United States v. Fossat,* and the case of
Yontz v. The United States,t have no application. In the
Fossat case the grant was in terms restricted to one league,
and it provided for the measurement of the quantity granted
and the reservation of the surplus. In the case at bar no
quantity is named, and the only limitation is that prescribed
by the law of 1824. In the Yontz case the grantee expressly
confined his application "to two leagues, more or less," ac
cording to certain designated boundaries. The grant did
not mention any quantity, but provided for the measurement
of the tract and the reservation of the surplus. The court
in deciding the case very justly observed, that if the boundaries were conclusively defined in the grant, no surplus
could be thrown off by a survey, and therefore construed
the grant in connection with the petition, and held that the
two leagues mentioned in the petition were to be surveyed
within the larger tract; in this way only was the conditional
* 20 Howard, 413.

+ 23 Id., 499.

Dec. 1863.]

GODFREY

v.

EAMES.

Statement of the case.

clause as to measurement and surplus made consistent with
the previous language of the grant. The case at bar is entirely dissimilar. Here the grant mentions no quantity, and
reserves no surplus, but on the contrary the third condition
expressly requires the magistrate who gives possession to
advise the government of the number of square leagues the
tract may contain.

DECREE AFFIRMIED.

GODFREY v. EAmES.
If ah applicant for a patent choose to withdraw his application for a patent,
intending, at the time of such withdrawal, to file a new petition, and he
accordingly does so, the two petitions are to be considered as parts of
the same transaction, and both as constituting one continuous application, within the meaning of the seventh sections of the Patent Acts of
1836 and 1839. CLrFORD, J., dissenting.
The question of the continuity of the application is a question to be sub-

mitted to the jury.

THE Patent Act of 1836, provides* that on the filing of an
application for a patent, "the commissioner shall make or
cause to be made an examination of the alleged new invention or discovery, and if on any such examination it shall
not appear to the commissioner that the same had been... in
public use or on sale with the applicant's consent or allowance prior to the application,.., it shall be his duty to issue a
patent therefor, but whenever on such examination it shall
appear to the commissioner that.., the applicant was not the
original and first inventor or discoverer thereof, or that what
is claimed as new had before been invented or discovered,...
or that the description is defective and insufficient, he shall
notify the applicant thereof, giving him briefly such information and references as may be useful in judging of the
propriety of renewing kz aplication, or of altering his specification to embrace only that part of the invention or discovery which is new.
"In every such case," the act goes on to say, " if the apld.i.
*

7, 5 Stat. at Large, 119.

