UNITED STATES

v. GOMEZ.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

of the proofs is otherwise, and the bill properly dismissed.
The question upon the assignment to Updike is so intimately
connected with the transaction we have just examined, the
conclusion arrived at in the one must control that in the
other.
The principal point made against this assignment is, that
the preference in it in favor of Phetteplace & Seagrave for
certain debts and liabilities, embrace the outstanding paper
which they had purchased, and which was secured by the
previous conveyances. But, on looking into the assignment,
this interpretation is not warranted. The preference relates
to other indebtedness and liabilities.
It is also said that Edward Seagrave embraced in this
assignment the purchased outstanding paper which he took
up, on giving security to the purchasers. But this was proper, as Merrit & Co., and Harris, who were on the paper,
had bound themselves to indemnify Seagrave against it, and
were, therefore, still liable upon it; and were to the assigns
on the transfer of it to him.
DECREE AFFIRMED

Mr. Justice MILLER dissented.

UNITED STATES V. GOMEZ.
Nhere the question was, whether a party should be heard on appeal, and
the effect of refusal to hear him would have left in full force a decree
that the court was "not prepared to sanction," it was held:
.. That an order to enter up a decree was not to be taken as the date of a
decree entered subsequently "nowfor then," but that the date was the
day of the actual and formal entry.
'... That the object of a citation on appeal being notice, no citation was ne-essary in a case where in point of fact, by agreement of parties, actual
and full knowledge by the party appellee of the other side's intention
to appeal appeared on the record; and where, moreover, by such a construction as the court was inclined to put on part of the case, the appeal
was taken in the same term when the decree was made.
8 That a certificate that a transcript of a record was a "full, true, and correct copy of all the proceedings, entries, and files in the District Court

Dec. 1863]

UNITED STATES

v. GOfEz.

691

Statement of the case.
for the Southern District of California, except the transcript sent up
from tlhe Board of La:.d Commissioners in the case," was so far god
that the party alleging it to be bad was referred, if dissatisfied with the
transcript, to his remedy of a suggestion of diminution and motion for
certiorarL

MOTION to dismiss an appeal from the decision of the
District Court for the Southern District of California, as not
having been taken in time, that is to say, within five years;
as having been made without citation, and as not founded
on a properly certified transcript. The case was thus:
Gomez had presented a petition to the board appointed
by the act of Congress of March 3d, 1851, to settle private
land claims in California, praying for confirmation of a tract
called the Tanoche G-rande, and which, he alleged, bad been
granted to him in 1844 by Governor Micheltorena. The board
rejected his claim, and he appealed to the District Court
accordingly. The case came on to be heard in that court
June 5th, 1857, and the record proceeds:

"Whereupon the court being fully advised in the premises,
delivered its opinion, confirming the claim to the extent called

for in the transcript and papers, three leagues; and a decree was
ordered to be entered up in conformity to said opinion."

This entry is dated June 5th, 1857, the same day the cause
was heard.

On the 7th of January, 1858, a decree in extenso

was filed, making the usual recitals of form, describing the
land "confirmed" as "three leagues, more or less, situate in
the county of Monterey, State of California; bounded on
the north by lands of Julian Usura, on the south by the hills,
on the east by the Valley of the Julares, and on the west by
lands of Francisco Arias." The decree ended thus:
"And it appearing to the court that on the 5th June, A. D.
1857, the lands in this case had been confirmed by the court to
the said claimant and appellant, and it having been omitted to
sign and enter a decree therefor at the date last aforesaid,it is or.
dered that the same be done now for then."

On the 4th of

,lIruaryof this same year the court "or.

692

UNITED STATES v. GOMEZ.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

dered that the appellant ha'.-c leave to amend the dec-tee filed
in the case, by substituting another in its stead." Gomez did
aecordingly, on the day following, to wit, the 5th of Februa-,, 1858, procure another decree to be entered in form and
in extenso. It was much like the former decree, except that
it described the tract by name, "Panoehe Grande," giving
the boundaries as before, describing it as containing four
leagues. This decree ended thus:
"It appearing to this court that heretofore, to wit, on the 5th
day of June, 1857, at a regular term of this court, the claim of
the appellant in this case had been confirmed by this court, but
that it had been omitted by this court to sign the decree of confirmation at the time the same was made: It istherefore further
ordered by this court that the same be signed now as for then."
Subsequently to this entry the United States obtained a
rule to open the decree and reinstate the case, with leave to
take testimony, assigning, as reason, that the decree had
been improvidently entered; that new evidence, now discovered, would show the claim to be fraudulent; and that
th decree itself had been fraudulently procured. Evidence
was accordingly taken tending to show that the District Attorney of the United States himself-one P. Ord-had been
a party interested in the claim. The court (Ogier, J.), thereupon, on the 21st March, 1861, made this order:
"Whereas it has come to the knowledge of this court that a
decree heretofore rendered by this court in this case, wasfraudulently obtained by misrepresentations of the then district attorney, P. Ord, and other counsel in the case; and it appearing tc
the satisfaction of the court, from testimony on record .n the
case, that the then district attorney, counsel for the United
States, was, at the time of making said decree, interested in the
land claimed in said cause, adversely to the United States, and
representing to the court that there was no objection to the confirmation of the claim aforesaid on the part of the United States,
a decree was entered without an examination by the court into
the merits of said claim, thus deceiving the court and obtaining
a decree in his own favor under the false pretence of represent-

Dec. 1863.]

UNITED STATES v. GOMEZ.

Statement of the case.

ing the interest of the United States. It is therefore ordered
that allproceedings heretofore had in said cause be set aside, and the
cause be put on the calendar and set for trial de novo accordingto
law."
Another judge having afterwards been appointed to the
bench of the District Court, a motion was now made to
vacate this order of March 21st, just before recited, and on
the 4th of August, 1862--June Term of that year-the new
judge remarking that he was not surprised that his predecessor, on learning the facts, "should have been indignant
and set the whole aside," yet conceiving that after the lapse
of -a term the court could not alter, change or modify a decree unless to correct some clerical error, "with great reluctance" vacated the last order which that said former judge
had made, and by which the proceedings had been set aside
and the case placed on the calendar for trial de novo.
At this same term, on the 25th August, 1862, on motion in
open court-no citation, -however, having been issued-an
appeal was allowed the United States to the Supreme Court
of the United States "from the decision and decree of this court
confirming the clai *of the claimant herein;" and on the 6th
October following, the district attorney, by writing filed,
reciting that the claimant was "desirous of moving the court
to set aside" the order for an appeal, agreed that all proceedings should be stayed till the next term, "so as to give the
claimant an opportunity to make such motion." The counsel of the claimant, on the 24th of N'ovember following, gave
notice that on the opening of the court, on the 1st December, 1862, he would make a motion to vacate the order
granting the appeal, and the motion was accordingly heard,
and the order for appeal subsequently vacated.
The transcript of the record in the case was certified (under
the act of Congress of. 6th August, 1861, ยง 2), by Mr. B. C.
'Whiting, "United States District Attorney for the Southern
District of California," and certified "that the foregoing one
hundred and seven pages are a full, true, and correct copy
of all the proceedings, entries, and files in the District Court
of the United Ststes for the Southern District of California,

UNITED STATES

i.

[S up. Ct.

GoMEZ.

Argument in support of the motion.

except the transcript sent up from the late Board of Land
Commissioners in the case of United States v. Vincente Gornez,
iTo. 393, on the docket of the said court, for the claim called
'Panoche Grande.'"
The motion to dismiss the appeal as already indicated was
on three grounds:
1. Because no appeal had been taken until more than five
years after the decree had been entered in the case, and not
taken within the time therefor, which this court had decided
to be the limit.
2. Because there had been no citation to the opposite
party.
3. Because what purported to be the transcript was not
made and certified according to law, and was defective both
for omissions and additions, and contained matters forming
no portion of the record.
Messrs. Brady, Gillet, and -Eames,in support of the motion:
1. By the Judiciary Act of 1789,* it is enacted, that "writs
of error shall not be brought but within five years after rendering or passing the judgment or decree complained of,"
and by the act of 1803,t that "appeals shall be subject to
the same rules, regulations, and restrictions as are prescribed
by law in cases of writs of error." In United States v. Pacheco,j it was held, that as the act of Congress of the 3d
March, 1851, does not specify the time within which an appeal must be made to the Supreme Court from the District
Courts of California, the subject must be regulated by the
general law respecting writs of error and appeal. An ap.
peal, therefore, must be taken within five years from the final
decree. The first inquiry, therefore, is, from when does the
time begin to run? From the time the decision is pronounced and entered in the minutes, or not from until the
day when the decree is formally drawn up, signed, and entered? 'In Tileet v. Young,ยง the Court of Errors in N{ew York
* 1 Stat. at Large, 84.

j 2 Id., 244.

20 Howard, 261.

11 Wendell, 522; and see Silsbee v. Foot, 20 Howard, 295.

Dec.1863.]

UNITED STATES v.

GOMEZ.

Argument in support of the motion.

held that the time for suing out the writ of error commences
from the time of the entry of the rule for judgment, and not
from the time of filing the record. The statute of New York
is similar to the law of Congress. The chancellor said, iu
the case cited: "The language of the statute, as contained
in the recent revision, is that the writ of error shall be
brought within two years after the rendering of the judgment or final determination of the court, and not after," &c.
Both the law of Congress and the statute of New York differ
from the English statutes as they were when this decision
was made. By the English statute, a writ of error could be
brought within twenty years after the judgment record
signed and filed, and judgment entered; by rule of the
House of Lords, an appeal must be brought within five years
after the enrolment of the decree. In Fleet v. Youg, the
chancellor discusses the difference between the New York
statute and the English statute, and also says: "In point
of principle, it is not.very material whether one construction
or the other is adopted, as the plaintiff in error may himself
obtain permission to make up the record, ifthe adverse party neglects to do it within a reasonabletime after the actual rendition of
the judgment,* and it is not necessary to wait for the filing
of the record before a writ of error can be sued out. It is
sufficient if the judgment be signed and filed at any time
before the actual return of the writ of error, although after
the return day is past."t
The case of Lee v. Tillotson, before the Supreme Court of
New York,T is also in point. That was a motion by the
defendant for leave to draw up a statement of facts from the
special report made by referees, and to have such statement
settled and inserted in the judgment xecord, to the end that
he, the defendant, might bring a writ of error. It was objected that more than two years had elapsed since the decision of the motion to set aside the report, but not since
judgment was perfected by filing the record, &c. The court
say:
Jackson v. Parker, 2 Cainos, 385.
"Arnold v. Sandford, 14 Johnson, 417.

: 4 Hill, 27.

UNITED STATES V. GomEZ.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in support of the motion.
"Although it does not appear upon the papers that a rule for
judgment was entered at the next term after the report was
made, there can be no doubt that it was done; and, besides, if
the rule was never entered, it would be almost a matter of course to
allow it to be done nunc pro tune. But we think the question of
limitation does not turn on the time of entering the rule for
judgment, but on the time when the final determination was
made on the motion to set aside the report. The rule for judgment was undoubtedly entered in May Term, 1837, and, if we
date from that, the time for bringing a writ of error had expired
before the motion for a rehearing was made, which was in May,
1840. The question, then, is whether the limitation dates from
the final determination of the court, which was in July, 1840,
or from the subsequent filing of the judgment record in January,
1841. The statute provides that ' all writs of error upon any
judgment or final determination rendered in any cause, shall be
brought within two years after the rendering of such judgment
on final determination, and not after.' The judgment on final
determination in this cause was rendered. in July Term, 1840,
when the motion which had been made to set aside the report
of the referees was denied. The record which was afterwards
filed was not the judgment, but only a written memorial of the
judgment which had been previously rendered. The Court of
Errors arrived at the same conclusion, on this question, in Fleet
v. Young. It follows, that the time for bringing a writ of error
has already expired, and we ought not to put the plaintiffto the
expense and ourselves to the inconvenience of settling a case
when we see it can do no good."
In the English case of Smythe v. Clay,* the decree was
actually enrolled within five years from the time of bringing
the appeal, but more than twenty years after the decree was
actually rendered. It seems to have been held that the enrolment of any decree pronounced by the Court of Chancery
is deemed as being, by legal relation, the act of the same day
on which the decree was pronounced.
Then we have the nunc pro tune clause added, in terms, to
the decree, signed, filed, and entered the 5th February, 1858.
* 1 Brown's Parliamentary Cases, 453; Case No. 5 of Appeals.

Dec. 1863.]

UNITED STATES V. GOMEZ.
Argument in support of the motion.

In Lee v. Tillolson, supra, it is said such an order would have
been a matter of course. The effect of the clause specially
inserted is, of course, to make more specially the judgment
relate back to the time when the decree should have been
entered.
This appeal, therefore, not having been in time, the decree
of the District Court must stand. The order of 21st March,
1861-an order made near four years after the date when
that which we assert was the decree was rendered-is a nullity; for, as this court has declared,* "no principle is better
settled, or of more universal application, than that no court
can reverse its own final decrees or judgments for errors of
fact or of law, after the term in which they were rendered,
unless for clerical mistakes, or reinstate a cause dismissed
by mistake."
2. If the appeal had been taken in time it is a nullity, because no citation was taken or served. In .Hoganv. 1oss,t
this court said, that where no citation had been issued or
served, the cause must be dismissed. In Villabolos v. United
States,t the court held that an entry of appeal in the clerk's
office did not remove -the cause; and that where an appeal was not taken in open court at the term at which the
decree was rendered, in the absence of a citation signed by
the judge allowing it, the appeal was a nullity. At the same
term, in United &Satesv. Curry,ยง the rule was iterated.
8. The district attorney has not certified the whole record.
He certifies that the one hundred and twenty-seven pages
are "a full, true, and correct copy of all the proceedings,
entries, and files in the District Court for the Southern District of California, except the transcript sent up from the late
Board of Land Commissioners." This transcript he does
not vouch for as a copy of that on the files. Hence the exemplification cannot be relied on. How much may have
been omitted, how much added, cannot be ascertained. It
must accordingly be rejected in toto.
* Ex parte Sibbald v. United States, 12 Peters, 488.
$ 6 Id S1.
t 9 Howard, 602.

Id., 106.

UNITED STATES V. GOMEZ.

[Sup. C .

Argument against the motion.

Messrs. Bates, A. G., & Black, contra:

1. The right of appeal is a sacred right; every doubt is
to enure to the benefit of the appellant. Things done nunc
pro tunc are done by leave of court only, and then only to
do justice, never to do injustice. Until entered, there is no
decree from which appeal can be taken, for it is not of record.
Appeal is allowed by act 3d March, 1851, ยง 10, to the party
"against whom judgment is rendered." The act of 24th
September, 1789, allows writ of error "within five years
after rendering or passing the judgment or decree."
Judge Ogier, being made aware of the fraud practised on
him, set aside his decree, 21st March, 1861. Of course we
could not appeal from the decree while that order stood.
His successor set aside that order on 4th August, 1862. Five
years had then elapsed from the date of order of entry of
decree, but not from date of actual entry of decree. If it be
law that the appeal runs from the date of the order, then the
District Court has deprived the United States of a right of
appeal, as wrongly as that Court was lured into entering its
decree.
IBut, as might well have been, if the new jodge had not
been asked to set aside the order of 21st of March, 1861,
until six or seven months more had elapsed, or, if he had
delayed action therein until the next term, our right of appeal
from the decree would have been gone forever, even counting from the date of entry of decree. No court has power
thus to deprive a party of his rights. We slept securely on
the action of the court rescinding its decree. If, in rescinding it after a term had elapsed, the court did wrong, it was
not for us to try to correct an error in favor of the manifest
justice of giving us a fair hearing, of which the decree had
deprived us, but it was for Gomez to do so. Under that
order we could not appeal, and he did not.
Even if Judge Ogier's order of 21st March, 1861, setting
aside the decree, was erroneous, as being made after the term
when the decree was entered, still the same principle would
protect that order from being subsequently changed, uncss
changed at the same term. For, if the rule that the decree of

Dec. 1863.]

UNITED STATES V. GomEz.
Opinion of the court.

one term cannot be changed at a subsequent term, oe good
to avoid Judge Ogier's decree made by a fraud practised on
him, it must be good to protect from change at a subsequent
term his order avoiding that decree and undoing that fraud.
If Judge Ogier could not correct the fraud three years after
it was practised, how can his successor restore the fraud by
an order nearly a year and a half after that correction? So
also we may fairly contend that the running of the five years
for appeal was suspended during the existence of Judge
Ogier's order of 21st March, 1861, setting aside the decree.
It is a settled rule that lapse of time never bars a right which
the law will not allow the party to assert during that time.
Independently of all which, it would seem clear that if we
were debarred from an appeal from the decree, at least we
had a right to appeal from the order of 4th August, 1862,
setting aside Judge Ogier's order of 21st March, 1861.
2. No citation was necessary, because we took the appeal
at the same term at which Judge Ogier's order was set aside.
The parties were then both in court. The record is not
bound to be made up till the end of the term; and the party
against whom the appeal is made cannot complain of want
of notice if the appeal is made in the term; for if he looks
at the record at the end of the term he will find the appeal.
3. The transcript may or may not be certified in the best
form, and contain all that it ought to contain. If it be
incomplete, the remedy is the ordinary one for certiorari to
bring the record.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD, reciting the facts, delivered the
opinion of the court to the following effect:
Claimant assumes that the entry in the minutes of the
fifth of June, 1857, is the final decree, and consequently that
the appeal was too late. But the proposition cannot be sustained, as is evident from inspection of the record. Entry
is that a decree was ordered to be entered up in conformity
to such opinion. No decree of any kind, however, was
drawn up, entered, or filed on that day. On the contrary,
the record shows that on the seventh of January, 1858, a

UNITED STATES v. GOMEZ.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

decree was filed in the case, and the decree itself, after referring to the fact that the claim had been confirmed on the
fifth of June, 1857, states, that "having been omitted to sign
and enter a decree therefor at the date last aforesaid, it is
ordered that the same be done now for then." Donee was
not satisfied with the decree as thus filed, which was for three
square leagues, and on the fourth of February, 1858, obtained
leave to amend it by substituting another. Pursuant to that
leave, on the following day he filed a new decree, enlarging
the description to four square leagues, and the same was
entered and signed by the -district judge. Argument can
add nothing to the force of this statement, as drawn from the
record. Plainly there was no decree of any kind in the case
until the seventh of January, 1858, and as that was ordered
to be amended by substituting another, the final decree in
the case was that of the fifth of February following. Five
years, therefore, had not elapsed after the decree was entered
before the appeal was taken, and the first ground assumed
in the motion fails.
H. Want of citation is the second ground of the motion.
Final decree was rendered on the fifth of February, 1858,
but on the twenty-first day of March, 1861, the court entered
a decree that all proceedings heretofore had in the cause be
set aside, and that it be put on the calendar and set for trial,
de novo, according to law. Transcript shows that the order
vacating the decree was passed upon the ground that the
decree had been fraudulently obtained. [His honor here referred to the particulars as set forth in the order of Ogier, J.,
ante, p. 692, and to the proceedings in United States v. Gomez,
23 Howard, 326.] Delay ensued, and in the meantime a new
appointment of district judge was made. Application was
then made by the claimant to set aside the order vacating
the original decree, and at the June Term, 1862, held on the
fourth of August of the same year, the court ordered that
the previous order, made and entered on the twenty-first of
March, 1861, setting aside all proceedings had in the cause,
and placing the same on the calendar for trial de novo, be
and the same is hereby vacated and set aside. United States,

Dec. 1863.)

UNITED STATES

1).

GomEz.

Opinion of the court.

on the twenty-fifth of August, in the same year, took the
appeal which is under consideration. Appeal waF? taken in
open court, and at tie same term in which the order was
passed restoring the original decree, or rather vacating the
order of the twenty-first of March, 1861, setting it aside and
placing the cause on the calendar for trial.' Appeal, it is
true, purports to be from the decision and decree of the
court confirming the claim, but it was taken fiom that decree not only after it had been vacated, but after the decree
directing it to be vacated had itself been stricken out, and
the original decree had been restored. Admitting that the
order restoring the original decree was one of any validity,
then indeed no citation was necessary, because the appeal
was taken in open court, and might well be regarded as taken
at the same term in which the decree was entered. But it
is unnecessary to place the decision entirely upon that ground.
Granting that the appeal is from the original decree, and
that the question is wholly unaffected by the subsequent
orders, still it is quite clear that no citation was necessary in
this case. Claimant at once signified his intention to move
the court to set aside the order granting the appeal, and
thereupon it was stipulated and agreed between the parties
that all further proceedings should be stayed until the next
term of the court. Notice in writing was accordingly given
by the claimant that he would submit such a motion aT the
next term at the opening of the court. He did submit it,
and the parties were heard, and the court gave an opinion
sustaining the motion. Petition for an injunction was afterwards filed to prevent the appeal, and the parties were heard
upon that subject, but the injunction was denied. Object
of the citation is notice, and under the circumstances of this
case that purpose seems to have been fully answered, and
the objection is accordingly overruled.
m. Third ground of the motion is that the transcript is
incomplete, and that the same is not duly certified. The
certificate in this case is certainly made by an officer authorized by law to make it, and we are not able to perceive
that it is defective. Remedy of appellee, if the transcript is

HO:[UGHTON V. JONES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the ease.

incomplete, is a plain one and one of daily use. He should
suggest diminution, and ask for a certiorari,which is readily
granted when applied for in season.
In view of the whole case, our conclusion is that the motion to dismiss the appeal must be overruled. Effect of the
motion, if granted, would be to leave the decree below in full
force and unreversed, which is a result that at present we are
not prepared to sanction. When the cause comes up upon
the merits, we shall desire to hear the counsel upon the question whether there is any valid decree in the case, and if not,
as to what will be the proper directions to be given in the
cause. Those questions are not involved in the motion to
dismiss, but they will arise when the merits of the case are
examined, and will deserve very careful consideration.
MOTION REFUSED.

HOUGHTON V. JONES.
1. This court will refuse to consider objections to the documentary evidence
of title produced on the trial of an action of ejectment, unless they are
presented in the first instance to the court below, if they are of a kind
which might have been there obviated.
2. By the law of California, deeds conveying real property may be read in
evidence in any action when verified by certificates of acknowledgment, or proof of their execution by the grantors before a notary public.
8. The right to cross-examine a witness is limited to matters stated in his
direct examination.

Tnis was a writ of error to the Northern District of California; the ease being thus:
. By the act of Congress of March 8, 1851, "to ascertain
and settle the private land claims in the State of California,"
it is provided, "that each and every person claiming lands
in California, by virtue of any right or title derived from the
Spanish or Mexican government, shall present the same to
the commissioners," &c., who are directed to examine into
and "decide upon the validity of the said claim." And it is
further declared that "all lands, the claims to which shall

