Dec. 1863.]

THE STATE OF MINNESOTA V. BACHELDER.

109

Statement of the case.

ings for want of jurisdiction. If the'survey does not conform to the decree of the board, the remedy must be sought
from the Commissioner of the General Land Office before
the patent issues, and not in the District Court.
DECREE ACCORDINGLY.

T E

STATE OF MINNESOTA v. BACHELDERi.

1. Neither the Act of Congress of 83d arch, 1849-the organic law of the
Territory of Minnesota, which declared that.when the public lands in
that Territory shall be surveyed, certain sections, designated by numbers, shall be and "hereby are" "reserved for the purpose of being applied to schools"-nor the subsequent act of February 26th, 1857, providing for the admission of that Territory into the Union-and making
the same reservation for the same object-amounts so completely to a
"dedication," in the stricter legal sense of that word, of these sections to
school purposes, that Congress, with the assent of the Territorial legislature, could not bring them within the terms of the Pre-emption Act
of 1841, and give them to settlers who, on the faith of that act, which
had been extended in 1854 to this Territory, had settled on and improved them.
2. The decisions of the receiver and register of lands for the Territory of
Minnesota are not of conclusive efficacy. They may be inquired into
and declared inoperative by courts.
8. Error will lie to the Supreme Court of a State, under the 25th section of
the Judiciary Act, where a statute of the United States is technically
in issue in the pleadings, or is relied on in them and is decided against
by rulings asked for and refused, even though the case may have been
disposed of generally by the court on other grounds.
THIS was a writ of error to the Supreme Court of the State
of MJ innesota, and was taken under the 25th section of the
Judiciary Act of 1789, which gives a writ of error here in
any case where is drawn in question any clause of the Constitution, or of a treaty, or statute, or comissioi, held under the
United States, and the decision is againstthe right, title, privilege or exemption specially set. up or claimed by either
party under such clause of the Constitution, treaty, statute
or commission.
The case was thus: By the act of March 3d, 1849, the organic law of the Territory of Minnesota, it was enacted "that

110

Tim STATE

OP

MINNESOTA

V. BACHELDER.

[Sup. CL

Statement of the case.

when the lands in said Territory shall be surveyed, sections
16 and 36 shall be and the same hereby are reserved for the
purpose of being applied to schools." A subsequent act,
that of February 26th, 1857, providing for the admission of
this Territory into the Union, repeats this enactment, declaring that these same numbered sections of the public
lands (and in case either of said sections or any part of them
has been sold or otherwise disposed of, other lands equivalent thereto and as contiguous as may be), shall be granted
to said State for the use of schools.
Notwithstanding this intended devotion to purposes of
education of these sections Nos. 16 and 36, Congress, by an
act of 1854,* declared that the provisions of what is known
as the Pre-emption Actt of 1841, should extend to lands in
Minnesota. The result was that great numbers of persons
settled all over the State, and not unfrequently settled, in
different townships, upon tracts which, when the tracts came
to be surveyed, proved to bear the numbers 16 and 36. In
consequence of this state of things, the Territorial legislature
of Minnesota presentedl a memorial to Congress for a remedy. The memorial stated, that by reason of the extension of the Pre-emption Act to Minnesota, many settlers had
settled and made improvements by the erection of costly
buildings and otherwise upon farms, which, when the government surveys were made, were found to be included within
the school sections, and that it would be unjust to compel
these persons to repurchase or lose their improvements thus
made in good faith and with the expectation of a pre-emption of the lot, and recommended the passage of a law which
should meet the hardship of such cases. Accordingly, on
the 3d of March, 1857, that is to say, after the above-mentioned act, providing for the admission of the Territory into
the Union, but before the acceptance of that act by the
Convention of the State, and so before the actual incorporation of the State into the Union, Congress passed a joint
resolution, which provided, that where any settlements by
* Augu.st RtlL

t Act of Sept. 4th, 1841.

: Feb. 26th, 1856.

Dec. 1863.]

THE

STATE OF MINmESOTA.

v.

BACHELDER.

111

Statement of the case.

the erection of a dwelling-house, or the cultivation of any
portion of the land, shall have been or shall be made upon
these 16th or 36th sections, before the said sections shall
have been or shall be surveyed, &c.; and if such settlers can
bring themselves within the Pre-emption Act, then the right
of preference to such sections or portions of them so settled
and occupied shall be in them, the same as if such sections
had not been previously reserved.
The present suit arose accordingly out of this condition
of the law, and was an ejectment for a tract numbered 16,
by the State of Minnesota, in behalf of its schools, against
one Bachelder, the defendant, who claimed under the rights
given by the joint resolution just above set forth. Bachelder set up as his defence pre-emption certificates and a patent, dated August 15th, 1857, to two persons of the name
of Mills,-L. and J. Mills,-from whom he showed title to
himself.
To this the plaintiff replied, that these had all been obtained by fraud and misrepresentations; that the Millses
'did not settle on the premises, did not build a house there,
nor make any improvements prior to the government survey
of the sections; that in granting the papers which he had
granted, the register and receiver had been deceived as well
by misrepresentations of the Millses as by the false oath of
one George Dazner, whom they produced to swear to facts
which did not exist, but whose existence was necessary to
bring the parties within the Pre-emption Act. But the
court, neither on a demurrer by the State of Minnesota to
a replication by Bachelder, nor on its offers to prove these
facts before a jury, considered them as making a reply to
the case of the defendants, as exhibited by his certificates
and patents; ruling in effect that the decision of the register
and receiver could not be reviewed nor inquired into by the
court, and that the remedy of the State was through the
commissioner of said office or the Secretary of the Interior.
The statutes of the United States devoting the sections to
school purposes were put technically in the pleadings; their
binding force relied on by counsel and pressed upon the

112

THE STATE OF MINNESOTA V. BACIIELDER.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the plaintiff.

court, and rulings under them asked for and refused, and
the refusal excepted to; but although, by being set out in
the pleadings and exceptions, and by rulings against them,
they were technically drawn in question and decided against,
yet the actual ground of the decision was as just stated
rather than specially against the statutes.
The correctness of the view taken by the court below, as
to the effect of the register and receiver's acts, as also the
right of the State to have a writ of error from this court to
the Supreme Court of Minnesota, when the statutes of the
United States had not been otherwise drawn in question
than as mentioned, were now the questions here; the former
question being made by the plaintiff in error, the State of
Minnesota, and the latter by the other side.
Mr. Cole, A. G., of Minnesota, for the plaintiff: The joini
resolution of Congress is void. It cannot divest a title which
the United States had previously granted. The organic act
of the Territory constituted a dedication to public uses, perpetual and irrevocable, and whatever might have been its
effect upon the naked fee, at least divested Congress of all
power of disposition over the subject-matter, so far as such
disposition should tend to impair the public rights created
by that act. The doctrine of dedications was first announced
in Strange's Reports, A.D. 1725, and applied to highways.
Since then it has been vastly extended. The donations of
magnificent domains, by Congress, for the promotion of
learning and the liberal arts in the rising communities of
the West, afford instances not the least striking and interesting of such extension, and have induced more liberal views.
Thus the doctrine has in New York been applied to a public
square.* So it has also in Vermont.t In the former State
it has been extended to a gift for religious purposes ;$ while
in Pennsylvania it reaches any property devoted to purposes
of general education.ยง
Trustees of Watertown v. Cowen, 4 Paige, 510.
t State v. Wilkinson, 2 Vermont, 480.
1 Hartford Baptist Church v. Witherell, 3 Paige, 29.
Witman -v. Lex, 17 Sergeant & Rawle, 88, 91.

Dec. 1863.]

THE

STATE OF MINNESOTA V. BACAELDER.

113

Argument for the defendant.

If dedicated, the power of Congress over it was gone. In
Wilcox v. Jackson (13 Peters, 498),.the court say: "Whenever
a tract of land shall have been once legally appropriated to
any purpose, from that moment the land thus appropriated
becomes reserved from the mass of the public lands, and no
subsequent law or proclamation, or sale, would be construed
to embrace it or to operate upon it, although no reservation
were made of it." And in the same case the court signify
that "the same principlewill apply to any landwhich by authority
of law shall have been severed from the public mass."
Neither is the case helped by the memorial from the Territorial legislature. The organic act (ยง 18), indicates an intention to consecrate these lands for the benefit of the generations who should in future inhabit the State; and while
divesting Congress of all power of disposition over them, to
withhold it from any other body then in existence. They are
reserved "for the purpose of being applied to schools in said
Territory, and in the States and Territories hereafter to be erected
out of the same." They were not granted to the Territory, and
were in no sense its property.
Forthe defendant: The error of the argument is in assuming
this to be a "dedication" in the legal meaning of the word.
In Post v. _Piersoll,* long since the time of Strange, the Supreme Court of New York decided that a dedication must
be confined to a highway. It may have been much extended
since, but this is not within the legal meaning of the word.
No writ of error lies here from the Supreme Court of Minnesota; for no statute of the United States has been drawn
in question and decided against. The court ruled that it could
not go behind the acts of the register and receiver, and so disposed of the case. The fact that the statutes of the United
States were presented in the pleadings and were disposed of
adversely by a judgment which was based on other grounds,
the argument from the statutes falling, in fact, only with the
case generally, is not enough.
* 20 Wendell, 119.
VOL. I.

8

i14

TEE STATE OF MINNESOTA V. BACHELDER.

[Sup. C0.

Opinion of the court.

Reply: Crowell v. Randall (10 Peters, 368), decides, "that
it is not necessary that the question should appear on the

record to have been raised, and the decision made in direct
and positive terms, but that it is sufficient if it appear by
clear and necessary intendment that the question must have
been raised and must have been decided in order to have
induced the judgment." Neither is it necessary that the
treaty or act of Congress under which the party claims shall
be specially pleaded or spread upon the record. Hlickey v.
Starke (1 Peters, 94).
The converse of the rule holds also true. Here the statutes
were drawn in question, by being on the record and issue so
taken to them, or by being made the subject of a request for
rulings not given; a fact apparent in the bill of exceptions.
When judgment was given against the State, or the rulings
refused, they were decided "against," in the most exact and
authoritative form of legal understanding.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court:
It is not important to inquire as to the power of Congress
to pass this law independently of any application from the Territorial legislature, as the assent of the people through their
convention, by coming into the Union as a State, upon the
terms proposed, must be regarded as binding the State. The
right of the State to the school sections within it must, therefore, be subject to the modification contained in the joint
resolution, and that modification is, that in case a person shall
have made a settlement upon any school section, by the erection of a dwelling-house on the same, or the cultivation of
any portion of it before the survey; and further, can bring
himself within the provisions of the Pre-emption Act of 1841,
he shall be entitled to the section thus improved, in preference to any title of the State.
This was the state of the law in respect to these school sections in Minnesota, at the time of the application of L. and
J. Mills to the register and receiver for the pre-emption of the
premises in question, and of the issuing of the patent certificates by them, August 15th, 1857.

Dec. 1863.]

THE

STATE OF MINNESOTA

v.

BACHELDER.

115

Opinion of the court.

As we have seen, the defendant, who claims under L. and
J. Mh Mills, relies on these patent certificates and the patents
issued in pursuance thereof
To these the plaintiff replies that they were obtained by
fraud and misrepresentation; that L. andJ. Mills did not settle
on the premises, nor erect a dwelling-house thereon, nor make
any improvements on the same, previous to the survey of the
sections by the government; and besides their false represen.
tations to the register and rebeiver, they procured one George
Dazner to make a false affidavit as evidence of the settlements,
erection of the dwelling-houses and improvements before
these officers. The court below refused to give any effect to
these facts as set forth in the pleadings, of as offered to be
proved on the'issues of fact before the jury, and the ground
taken to uphold these rulings is, that the decision of the register and receiver and certificates issued were conclusive upon
the court, and not revisable or to be inquired into; and that
the remedy of the party aggrieved was by an application to
the Commissioner of the Land Office or Secretary of the Interior.
These questions have been so often before this court, and
were so fully considered in the last case (Lindsey et al. v.
Hawes et al.),* where the authorities are collected, that it
would be a waste of time to re-examine them.
A court of equity will look into the proceedings before the
register and receiver, and even into those of the land office
or other offices, where the right of property of the party is
involved, and correct errors of law or of fact to his prejudice.
The proceedings are ex parte and summary before these
officers, and no notice is contemplated or provided for by the
pre-emption laws as to parties holding adverse interests, nor
do they contemplate a litigation of the right between the
applicant for a pre-emption claim with a third party. The
question as contemplated is between the 'settler and the
governm ent, and if a compliance with the conditions is shown
to the satisfaction of the officers, the patent certificate is
granted.
* 2 Black, 254, 557, 558.

See also O'Brien v. Perry, 1 Id., 189.

BRIDGE PROPRIETORS V. HTOBOKEN CO.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

The court below, therefore, erred in their rulings on the
demurrer, and also on the trial of the issues in fact.

A point is made under the 25th section of the Judiciary Act,
that this court has no jurisdiction to reverse the judgment of
the court below. But the right of the State to these school
sections rests upon acts of Congress, which were set up and
relied on in this case, and the decision of the court below
against it.

The judgment of the court Itelow is reversed, with costs,
and the cause remanded, with directions to enter judgment
overruling the demurrer to plaintiff's replications, and to
issue venire de novo, &c.
JUDGMENT ACCORDINGLY.

THE BRIDGE PROPRIETORS

v.

THE EoBoKEN COMPANY.

1. Where a statute of a State creates a contract, and a subsequent statute is
alleged to impair the obligation of that contract, and the highest court
of law or equity in the State construes thefirst statute in such a manner
as that the second statute does not impair it, whereby the second statute
remains valid under the Constitution of the United States, the validity
of the second statute is "Idrawn in question," and the decision is "in
favor" of its validity, within the meaning of the 25th section of the
Judiciary Act of 1789. This court may accordingly, under the said section, re-examine and reverse the judgment or decree of the State court
given as before said. The case distinguished from The CommercialBank
v. Buckingham's Executors (5 Howard, 317). GRIER, J., dissenting.
2. A party relying on this court for re-examination and reversal of the decree
or judgment of the highest State court, under the 25th section of the Judiciary Act of 1789, need not set forth specially the clause of the Constitution of the United States on which he relies. If the pleadings make
a case which necessarily comes within the provisions of the Constitution,
it is enough.
8. The statute of the legislature of New Jersey, passed A. D. 1790, by which
that State gave power to certain commissioners to contract with any
persons for the building of a bridge over the Hackensack River; and by
the same statute enacted that the "said contract should be valid on the parties contracting as well as on the State of Nw Jersey;" and that it should
not be "lawful" for any person or persons whatsoever to erect "any
other bridge over or across the said river for ninety nine years,"'-is a
contract, whose obligation the State can pass no law to impair.

