16

WRIGHT V. ELLISON.

[Sup. Ct,

. Statement of the case.

tions in a will, even to persons not in esse, in order to make
a final decree and give proper instructions in relation to the
execution of the trusts.* It is this necessity alone which
compels a court to make such cases exceptions to the general
rule. But in the present case no such necessity exists. The
court is not called upon to make a scheme of the trusts, nor
could they anticipate the situation of the parties in the suit,
or those who may be in existence at the death of Mrs. De
Valle. The court has no power to decree in thesi, as to the
future rights of parties not before the court or in esse.
DECREE AFFIRMED WITH COSTS.

WRIGHT V. ELLISON.
1. To constitute an equitable lien on a fund there must be some distinct
appropriation of the fund by the debtor. It is not enough that the
fund may have been created through the efforts and outlays of the
party claiming the lien.
2. A power of attorney drawn up in Spanish South America, and by Portuguese agents, in which throughout there is verbiage and exaggerated
expression, will be held to authorize no more than its primary and
apparent purpose. Hence a power to prosecute a claim in the Brazilian
courts will not he held to give power to prosecute one before a Commissioner of the United States at Washington; notwithstanding that
the first named power is given with great superfluity, generality, and
strength of language.

Iw 1827, the American brig Caspian was illegally captured
by the naval forces of Brazil, and condemned in the prize
courts of that country. There being nothing else to be done
in the circumstances, her master, one Goodrich, instituted
legal proceedings to recover the brig, and gave to Zimmerman, Frazier & Co., an American firm of the country, a
power of attorney with right of substitution, to go on with
matters. The power was essentially in these words:
"I authorize, &c., in my name and representing me, to appear
in and prosecute the cause I am this day prosteuting before the
* See Bowers v. Smith, 10 Paige, 200.

Dec.1863.]

pRIGHT v. ELLISON.
Statement of the case. •

tribunal of justice, .&c., in which this vessel is interested; said
vessel has been detained by force of the blockade ofBuenos Ayres,
and that they make petitions, request, and protests, here and
before all tribunals, superior and inferior, before whom it is customary to appeal; that they present all the documents favorable
to my rights; that they except to and decline jurisdiction; that
they give and refuse terrhs; that they submit written evidence
and proof; that they retort and contradict everything unfavora ble; that they challenge jurisdiction; that they express the
causes of accusation, if it be necessary so to do; that they take
cognizance of all decrees and interlocutory as well as final sentences; that -they admit the favorable and appeal from the
adverse; that they prosecute the appeal before his Imperial Majesty
in the superior tribunals of war and justice, that in right they
can and ought to do; that they insinuate where and againstwhom
they may deem advisable, doing in effect everything requisite and
necessary that I, being present, would or could do; that they make
transactions and obligations, name arbitrators and mediators,
demanding damages or adjusting them amicably with the opposite parties, receiving in my name the said brig Caspian and her
cargo; that they give all receipts right and proper to be given
in faith of delivery and acquittance; and after the restitution
of said vessel they may name, in my absence, any other captain
and crew to navigate her if they deem it advisable, and if not,
they may sell her per account of her legitimate owners, and they
may receive amount of said sale. And as to the necessary power
referred to, with all incidental and resulting powers, I give it to
and confer it upon my aforesaid attorney, with f'ee,frank, and
general administration without limit, in order that there be no
clause or special expression which would destroy the effect of it,
because I gave them full power to substitute another, to revoke
the appointed one's authority, and to name again substitutes,
all of whom I exonerate from costs."
Under the power of substitution thus given to. them,
Zimmerman, Frazier & Co. substituted in their place Mr.
Wright, the consul of the United States, and a merchant of
standing at Rio; whose official influence, it was apparently
supposed, might be more potential than their own private
efforts. Wright prosecuted the case diligently through the
2
VOL. 1.

WRIG T

v. ELLISON.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

Brazilian courts, but without success. He afterwards came
to the United States and urged our Government to demand
indemnity for this as for other wrongs of a like kind. He
spent money, removed difficulties, advanced proof, and flirnished information. The result of his or of other efforts
was that our Government finally made a demand for indemnity, and obtained it in this case, as in many others, under
a treaty subsequently made. A commissioner was appointed
to hear claims and decide them. But it was probable that,
except for Wright's knowledge, effort and outlay, this result
would not have been had, and neither this claim nor any
other been asserted by our Government as they all were.
After the labor of Wright had been undergone by him,
and when the money was open for claim, one Ellison,
an executor of a part owner, applied to the commissioner,
provect his case, and received his share of the indemnity.
Wright now instituted, in the court below,-the Circuit
Court for the District of Columbia,-this proceeding, a bill
in equity, against this same Ellison and others interested,
to have a commission out of this fund. The bill set forth
Wright's long and effective services, his large outlays, and
insisted that, "by the general maritime law and law of the
place where the contract was made," he was entitled to
compensation, and "that such compensation should be retained and received by him out of the fruits of his said labors,
services and expenses;" and it set forth further, "that as well
by agreements as by reason of the premises, and by force
of the maritime law and the principles of equity, and the
law and established usage of the place of said contract, he
had a lien upon the fruits and proceeds of the claim, in whatever
form of proceeding the same was realized, through or by reason
of his labors, advances, or services performed, advanced and
rendered."
It did not appear that the owners of the vessel had, in
form, ever ratified what Wright did; but the evidence
apparently was that they were cognizant, to a greater or
less degree, of what he was doing, though he himself was
the promoter of what was done everywhere.

Dec. 1863.]

DWRIGHT V. ELLISON.
Argument for the c],im.

The chief question now, therefore, was, Whether the complainant, Wright, had an equitable lien upon the fund? and
a preliminary question, Whether the power of attorney
authorized him to do anything more than prosecute the case
effectively through the Brazilian courts, and dispose of the
vessel afterwards, if he should prosecute it successfully?
Messrs. Ca-lisle and Cox for the appellant, Wright:
1. The power gives authority to manage the suit, on
behalf of the owners, and to prosecute an appeal before his
Imperial Majesh in the superior tribunals, to do whatever
he, being present, could or would do, to make compromises,
name arbitrators and mediators, demand and adjust damages,
to receive the vessel and cargo, and give receipts, and after
restitution to appoint a captain and crew to navigate her if
they deem advisable, or, if not, to sell her on account of the
owners and receive the proceeds, with free, frank, and general administration, without linit, and power of substitution,
&c. What can be more comprehensive than the complete
control given over the vessel and its proceeds, with general
administration,without limit 9 Would not the right to receive
the vessel, and convert her into money, involve the right to
receive the proceeds, if tae former were impossible? And
is it possible, that with all incidental and resulting powers, and
right of general administration, or management, without limit,
the attorneys would not be entitled to apply to and receive
indemnity from the Imperial Government at Rio, on the
failure of a suit in the Superior Court, at that place?
2. Slight circumstances suffice to establish an eq-titable
lien upon a pecuniary fund. An order drawn by A. on B.,
in favor of 0., for a valuable consideration, indorsing and
delivering a bond to an assignee, or any order, writing, or act
whatever, intended as an appropriation of a fund, or part of
it, would constitute an assignment, and give a lien on it in
equity. An authority to an agent to prosecute a money
claim and receive the proceeds, and deduct his compensation
from them, is of the same character. And this agreement
may be expressed or implied. Indeed, in every authority to

WRIGHT

v). ELLISON.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument against the claim.

prosecute and receive a money claim, there is implied an
authority to deduct the agent's expenses and compensation
from the fund. Attorneys, solicitors and collectors have this
right, just as all persons dealing with any subject-matter in
their hands, have a lien upon it for their work and labor.
In the matter of the Brazilian claims, there was no room
for misunderstanding. Merchants of high standing had
been engaged for many years in prosecuting them. Many
had been settled under a previous convention; and it had
always been understood that the agent's compensation was
to be retained out of the fund. This is matter of common
knowledge.
To establish the agency of the appellant is sufficient,
therefore, to make good his claim upon this specific fund.
Ifessrs. Bradley and Chetwood contra:
1. The power, filled as it is with the verbiage of a Portuguese legal document, and with exaggerated generalities, has
a purpose which is expressed in few words. It authorizes,1st. The attorney to continue in, appear in, and prosecute
the cause which the captain, Goodrich, is then himself prosecuting before the Brazilian Prize Court.
2d. To appeal from an adverse judgment, and prosecute
the appeal in the superior tribunals.
3d. In case of success, to receive the vessel and cargo,
adjusting damages.
4th. After restitution, to despatch her with crew and captain, or sell her on account of the owners.
After thus expressing its purpose, it repeats the gift of the
neeessary power to do these things; and this specified, qualified necessary power is what the constituent gives with free,
frank, and general administrationwithout limit.
These words, upon which the appellant lays stress, as conveying unlimited power, are, in truth, only an exaggerated
mode of expressing what has already been expressed, and
of giving what has already been given in a specified and
definite manner: mere "style de notaire."
2. The appellant asks, in fact, to be paid for having helped

Dec. 1863.]

e 6RIGHT

V. ELLISON.

Opinion of the court.

the Government of the United States to effect a treaty. If
he have any claim against Ellison under the treaty, he must
have a similar claim against every party in whose favor the
commissioner awarded. He does not set up a contract with
the owners of the vessel, or' either of them directly, or
through any agent, other than has been stated, but relies on
the services he has thus rendered as imposing a lien upon
the awards. If there is no lien, he has no case in equity at
all The assertion of the opposite counsel as to what gives
an equitable lien is perhaps correct. But it does not apply
to Mr. Wright's case. He has no "order or writing," nor
does he show any "act intended as an appropriation of the
fund."
Mr. Justice SWAYIE delivered the opinion of the court.
The determination of the case depends upon the solution
of the question whether the complainant has shown himself
entitled to an equitable lien upon the fund, to which the controversy relates.
The instrument executed by Goodrich, the master of The
Caspian, to Zimmerman, Frazier & Co., we think it quite
clear, contemplated only judicial proceedings, and the disposition of the vessel, after those proceedings were successful.
Zimmerman, Frazier & Co., in substituting the complainant
in their place, did not attempt to give, nor could they have
given, any greater authority than they themselves were
clothed with. The acquiescence of the owners whose rights
are here in question may be properly held to have ratiied
the acts of Goodrich in their behalf, but it cannot be held to
enlarge the powers conferred by the instrument which he
executed, beyond what is expressed, and the objects in the
minds of the parties at the time of the transaction.
The services of the complainant in bringing into activity
the diplomatic agencies of the United States, and otherwise,
at Rio, and subsequently in prosecuting the claim in this city,
were outside of his original authority. Nevertheless they
were beneficial to the claimants, and the approval of the
defendants may be fairly implied from their silence and inac-

WRIGHT V. ELLIS3N.

[Slip. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

tion. When the defendant, Ellison, interposed, the fruit was
ripe and ready to fall into the hands of those entitled to
receive it. We regard the ease as a proper one for compensation, and in an action at law the complainant could hardly
fail to recover.
But this is a suit in equity. The rules of equity are as
fixed as those of law, and this court can no more depart from
the former than the latter. Unless the complainant has
shown a right to relief in equity, however clear his rights at
law, he can have no redress in this proceeding. In such
cases, the adverse party has a constitutional right to a trial
by jury. The objection is one, which though not raised by
the pleadings nor suggested by counsel, this court is bound
to recognize and enforce.*
The evidence in the case is wholly silent as to any agreement touching the compensation of the complainant. It is
nowhere intimated what he was to receive, or when or how
he was to be paid. No established usage is shown. The
matter seems to have been left to rest upon the principle of
quantum meruit, and to be settled by the agreement of the
parties when the business was brought to a close. The doctrine of equitable assignments is a comprehensive one, but it
is not broad enough to include this case. It is indispensable
to a lien thus created, that there should be a distinct appropriation of the fund by the debtor, and an agreement that the
creditor should be paid out of it.t This case is wholly wanting in these elements.
DECREE AFFIR3MED WITH COSTS.
* Hipp et al. v. Babin et al., 19 Howard, 278; Parker t. Winnipiseogee
Company, 2 Black, 551.

T Morton v. Naylor, 1 Hill, 588; Hoyt v. Story, 3 Barbour, S. C., 262;
Burn v. Carvalho, 4 Mylne & Craig, 690; Watson v. The Duke of Wellington, 1 Russell & Myln% 602.

