RODRIGUES V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
RODRIGUES V. UNITED STATES.
A question of fact, to wit, of the location of survey in a previously confirmed Mexican grant; prior to the examination and decision of which,
the court sets forth the difficulties which attend any satisfactory determination of this class of California cases.

THIS was a case of conflicting land claims in California,
and came here on appeal from a decree of the District Court
for the Northern District of California, locating, by survey,
under the act of Congress of June 14, 1860, a previously
confirmed Mexican grant. The case, to understand which,
even imperfectly, the reader must refer to a map opposite,
was essentially thus:
In 1833, Mexico granted to Gonzales the tract marked A,
whose southkern boundary was the Creek or Arroyo de Butano.
In 1838, the same government, Alvarado being then governor, made a provisional concession to Ramona Sanchez for,
a league square, describing the tract as "known by the name
of 'Butano,' which tract, in 1848, Governor Miclheltorena
granted to her, reciting his deed to be the ratification of the
provisional title given to her, from the year 1838, to the tract
of land granted her, called Butano, bordering on the rancho of
the heirs of the deceased Sineon Castro, on the Serrania(or
ridge of mountains) and the sea." Sanchez had solicited the
land in 1837, asking for a league in length and half a league
in breadth. In 1842, between the dates last above named,
the government granted a tract also to the Simeon Castro
iust above named. It is described as " b o rd ering to the east
on the Sierra, to the west on the sea, on the north on the rancho
of Don Juan Gonzales, and to the south on that of Don Ylaria
Buelna." Reference was made, on the grant of each tract, to
the disefilos or maps annexed to the original petitions, but
these maps, like most of the disefios attached to Mexican
espedientes, were very rough sketches, and in the present
case were of imperfect value, except, perhaps, as indicating, to
9,greater or less degree, thatthe grant to Sanchez was between
-two "arroyos," or streams, which might be held to correspond with the streams known on better maps as the Arroyo

Dec. 1863.]

RODRIGUES V. UNITED STATES.

583

Statement of the case.

or Creek Butano, and the Arroyo or Creek de los Frijoles.
Undoubtedly upon a tract of about half a league, marked
No. 1, between those two streams, and bordering on the sea,
Sanchez had settled and resided from 1837. Still, a reference to the map will show that if Castro's north boundary
was that called for by his grant, to wit, "the rancho of Don
Juan Gonzales," then there was no place for Sanchez upon
the Butano Creek (from which stream her tract obviously
derived its name), in any such way as to border "on the
rancho of the heirs of the deceased Don Simeon Castro, on
the Serrania, and on the sea." The whole tract up to that
creek belonged to Castro, and it had, in fact, been confirmed,
surveyed, and patented to him, though neither Sanchez nor
Rodrigues were palties to any of the proceedings, and these
were had prior to the 14th June, 1860, when Congress passed
an act authorizing anybody to call into court and to contest
any survey afterwards to be made.* The difficulty therefore
was to bring Castro's tract up north, so as to "border on the
north on the rancho of Don Juan Gonzales," itself bounded
on the south by the Butano Creek, and at the same time give
to Sanchez, or rather to Rodrigues, who had succeeded to
her rights, a league between the Butano and the tract of
Castro. The thing was plainly impossible. However, to
give him a league somewhere, and at the same time to leave
Castro in enjoyment of all that he claimed and up to the
Butano, Rodrigues's tract was located as indicated by the plot
No. 2, that is to say, was made a long, narrow tract, north
of the Butano and east of Gonzales. This tract was upon
the Butano, in part; and it was "bordering on the rancho
of the heirs of the deceased Don Simeon Castro, on the Serrania," both in part. But the sea; where was it? It touched
the tract nowhere, and the tract was not the one which Ranmona Sanchez had settled on and occupied, whose general
locality is indicated by the plot No. 1.t This location, No. 2,
was set aside. Rodrigues was next located on the old tract
of Sanchez again; it being now assumed that some error had
See ante, p. 104, United States v. Sepulveda.
t Shaded in the map.

RODRIGUES V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. or.

Statement of the case.

taken place in giving Castro's north boundary; and that
while this boundary was really a creek, that creek was not
the Butano, but another one, to wit, the Frijoles, south of it.
It was among the facts of the case that the land granted to
Castro had been originally two tracts, with different names,
and that for the north one a concession had issued to a certain Bernal, who surrendered his rights to Castro, by whom
a final grant for both under one name was obtained. The
original papers, moreover, gave some indications, which,
compared by modern surveys of the Pacific coast, tended to
show that the tract did not go up to the Butano, and that the
northern boundary of one of the tracts was the Frijoles.
But everything was more or less obscure. The representatives of Castro had excepted to this location of Rodrigues on
No. 1, contending that all up to the Butano was theirs, and
that no one else should be put upon it. Superadded to the
difficulties just mentioned there was another, to wit, that
admitting Rodrigues to be rightly located between the Butano and the Frijoles, there was not enough land between
those two creeks, which were small and did not run far back,
to give him much more than half a league of land; whereas
the grant called for a whole one. What was to be done, in
view of the flict that the Butano and the Frijoles were natural boundaries, having unquestionable owners on the north
and south of them respectively, and that on the east was
the Sierra, or mountain range, of no use to any one, and of
less than none, if she had to take care of it, to a woman like
Ramona Sanchez, who in her petition represented herself as
a "desamparada mujer," an unprotected woman, who asked
for the land, as "un sitio valdio alproposito pa conte'ner en esu
ganado y hacer algunos labores pa subvenir d la mantencion de su
familia;" "a vacant place, adapted to keep my cattle and
carry on some husbandry for the maintenance of my family ?"
From what quarter was the deficit to come? A third survey
was now made; and assuming that as the tract was only "borderingon the Serrania," the Government meant that it should
not include any considerable part of it, as it would do if the
required half league was located east of the half on the sea,

Dec.1863.]

RODRIGUES V. UNITED STATES.

585

Argument for the appellant.

the surveyor turned the courses round, and forming an
"elbow" tract, made up the deficit by a survey upon the
south part of No. 2, in the manner meant to be indicated by
No. 3, and the chain lines upon the map. The south part of
No. 2 had, however, been entered on by persons who meant
to acquire it from right of pre-emption.
The case was one of obvious difficulty, and Judge HOfman, the District Judge in California, having examined the
whole case with great patience, and with a careful corparison of landmarks, and having stated at length the reasons of
his conclusion, finally located the easternmost portion on the
ridge, as indicated by No. 4, his decree being thus:.
"That said survey (the third) be and the same is hereby set
aside and rejected; and that a new survey of the tract herein
confirmed be made as follows, viz.: bounding the tract "on the
east by the Sierra; on the west, by the sea; on the south, by
the Arroyo de los Frijoles, as far as the same is delineated upon
the diseflo, and thence by the shortest distance to the Sierra;
and on the north by the Arroyo Butano, as far as the same is
delineated as a boundary upon the disefio; and thence (crossing
that stream)"by such line or lines as will include the area of
one square league."
From this decree Rodrigues, representing Sanchez, and
claiming to have No. 2, or at least No. 3, took the appeal.
31r. Gillet, for the appellant:
1. Mexico had conveyed to Castro a tract, having Baelna
on the south, and extending to Gonzales' ranch oa the north,
and this tract has been confirmed, surveyed, and patented:
consequently it is finally and conclusively located, so far as
this court and the United States are concerned. The Government has no land there now to convey.
2. The claimants in this cause are entitled to one square
league of land within the outboundaries of the tract described
in their grant as confirmed as they may select, which need
not touch all of them.

RODRIGUES V. UNITED STATES.

[sup. Ct.

Argument for the appellant.

It was settled in Fremont v. The United States* that Fremont might, "in the form and divisions prescribed by law
for surveys in California, embracing the entire grant in one
tract," select the quantity named in the grant. anywhere
within his outboundaries, which contained about ten times
the quantity granted. In The United States v. Fossat,t the
land was ordered to be "located at the election of the grantee or his assigns, under the restrictions established for the
location and survey of private land claims in California by
the executive department of this government." Under these
decisions Rodrigues has a right to claim his league square in
such form as he chooses, within his outer boundaries, three
of which only were given; and he cannot be compelled so
to locate so as to make him include land granted, confirmed,
and patented to another, and subject him to litigation and
probable, if not certain loss.
The quantity claimed by him was rightly located under
these decisions, by the second survey, which was bounded
south by a portion of the Castro grant, and was west of the
Serrania, and east of the Gonzales grant; which survey was
set aside. Rodrigues was not required to go to the sea, nor
to the Serrania, nor to the Castro grant. The north was left
open to him indefinitely.
3. It may be questioned, too, whether the decree as finally
made was not a nullity. The act of 14th July, 1860, under
which the power of the District Courts of California to act
in this sort of matter arises, is in these words: "1Andif, in its
opinion, the location and survey are erroneous, it is hereby
authorized to set aside and annul the same, or correct and
modify it."T The jurisdiction of the court is limited to one
of these two acts; and, under the land system of the United
States as applied to California, it cannot deprive the party
of his right of selecting his location within his "outer
boundaries." But in this case the court neither affirmed
nor set aside the survey, nor did it modify or correct it. It
decided, in advance, that the Surveyor-General should make
* 17 Roward, 542.

t 20 Id., 427.

$: 4, 12 Stat. at Large, '4

Dec. 1863.]

RODRIGUES V. UNITED STATES.

587

Opinion of the court.

a specified survey for one-half of the quantity in an entirely
new locality, and not in conformity with the rights of the
claimant. Practically it denied the authority of the cases
cited above, that the claimant may locate wherever he chooses
within the "outer boundaries," and seemed to act upon the
idea that the location must touch all of them at once.
This appeal by claimants brings up for .revision all the
orders and proceedings in the District Court in relation to
the survey which were made adversely to it. Justice can
be done by this court as it sees fit; and it can set aside the
last survey and order a new one, or it can restore, as we
ask it to do, the second survey, which gave a full league,
lapping upon no one, and which was set aside for a third
and fourth survey ordered. Or, it may give us No. 2.
Mr. Willes, who fled a brief of Mr. Stow, contra.
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
:No class of cases that come before this court are attended
with so many and such perplexing difficulties as these locations by survey of confirmed Mexican grants in California.
The number of them which we are called upon to decide
bears a very heavy disproportion to the other business of the
court, and this is unfortunately increasing instead of diminishing. Some idea of the difficulties which surround these
cases may be obtained by recurring to the loose and indefinite manner in which the Mexican government made the
grants which we are now required judicially to locate. That
government attached no value to the land, and granted it in
what to us appears magnificent quantities. Leagues instead
of acres were their units of measurement, and when an application was made to the government for a grant, which was
always a gratuity, the only question was whether the locality
asked for was vacant and was public property. When the
grant was made, no surveyor sighted a compass or stretched
a chain. Indeed, these instruments were probably not to be
had in that region. A sketch, called a diseflo, which was
rather a map than a plat of the land, was prepared by the

RODRIGUES V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. ct.

Opinion of the court.

applicant. It gave, in a rude and imperfect mbnner, the
shape and general outline of the land desired, with some of
the more prominent natural objects noted on it, and a reference to the adjoining tracts owned by individuals, if there
were any, or to such other objects as were supposed to constitute the boundaries. Their ideas of the relation of the
points of the compass to the objects on the map were very
inaccurate; and as these sketches were made by uneducated
herdsmen of cattle, it is easy to imagine how imperfect they
were. Yet they are now often the most satisfactory, and
sometimes the only evidence by which to locate these claims.
These difficulties have rather been incieased than diminished by the act of Congress of March 3d, 1851, entitled
"An act to ascertain and settle the private land claims in the
State of California," and the course of proceedings adopted
under it by the Board of Commissioners and the courts.
Before this board every person having a claim derived fiom
the Mexican government appeared, and in his own way and
to the best of his ability established his right. The primary
object of the act was to ascertain and separate the public
domain from that which had become, under the Mexican
government, private property; and hence, in every case, the
claimant was plaintiff, or actor, and the United States was
defendant. But no other private claimant was made a party
to the proceeding, and it may well be supposed, and indeed
we know it has often happened, that two or three claims for
the same land, or parts of the same, were progressing, pari
passu, in the same court, and the land has been confirmed
to each claimant, and probably each has received a patent
for it. As if aware of the confusion which must follow such
proceedings, the act of 1851 provides expressly that neither
the final decree of the Board of Commissiofiers, or of the
District or Supreme Court, or any patent to be issued undei
that act, shall be conclusive against any one but the claimant
and the United States. In some instances the board, or the
court, would construe the grant and accompanying espediente, and define the boundaries with particularity. In
others, they merely confirmed the grant, without any attempt

Dec. 1863.]

RODRIGUES

V.UNITED STATES.

Opinicn of the court.

at location. And in still other cases, they would partially
define the boundaries, and refer to the espediente for thai
which was left indefinite.
Then came the act of 1860, which attempted to settle these
difficulties in the making of the surveys under those decrees,
by permitting, or perhaps we should say compelling (for it
is yet to be determined whether every one interested is not
bound to come in or be barred), all parties interested in the
land covered by the survey, to come in and contest it. Are
they permitted to contest the decree under which the survey
is made? Or are they limited to denying that the survey
conforms to the decree? Or can they only contest the matter where the decree has not definitely located the grant?
Many such questions as these will arise under this act, and
will require great care and reflection to arrive at sound, safe
conclusions. In this proceeding new parties come before the
court, and often demonstrate that grants have been confirmed,
which necessarily conflict; and, upon a question of the location of'a survey, we have all the contests renewed which
should have been settled in the question of title.
The case before us is an example, containing as many of
the perplexities to which we have alluded as can well exist
in one case. Its consideration requires an examination of
three different claims, which have each, independently of the
other, been carried through the Board of Commissioners and
courts, and finally confirmed.
The first of these, that of Gonzales, was the oldest in reference to the date of the grant from Mexico, being made
in 1833. No party to the present record seeks to disturb its
location, and it is only to be considered here as bounding the
present claim. It is for three-fourths of a league, bounded
by the sea on the west, and the Butano Creek on the south.
The next grant in order of time is that to the present
claimants, under Ramona Sanchez. She, in 1837, made
app!ication for a half league of land, and the governor issued
to her a provisional concession for a league in 1838. Of the
location of this we will speak hereafter. Next came Simeon
Castro, who, in 1842, obtained from the government a grant

RODIIGUES V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

of four square leagues, bordering to the east on the Sierra,
to the west on the sea, to the north on the rancho of Don
Juan Gonzales, and to the south onl that of Don Ylaria
Buelna.
In the provisional concession of Governor Alvaraao, of
19th September, 1838, to Ramona Sanchez, the land is said
to be known by the name of Butano, and reference is made
to the espediente for its description. This must mean the
diserio accompanying her petition. In the final grant to her
in 1844, by Micheltorena, which is expressed to be a ratification of the provisional title given her in 1838, it is called the
Butano ranch, and is described as bordering on the ranch of
the heirs of Simeon Castro, on the Serrania, and on the sea.
Now, an examinaion of the disefio in her espediente, the
place of her residence, and her long possession under the
grant, with other matters, leave no doubt that if her grant
was to bound on the sea she must come between Gonzales
and Castro; yet Castro's grant calls for the grant of Gonzales
as his northern boundary. This would leave no place for
the location of claimant's land, where it seems reasonably
certain it was intended to be. How are we to adjust these
conflicting claims?
In the first place, we concur.with the District Court in
holding, that the language of the grant to Castro, which
makes his northern boundary the rancho of Gonzales, is a
mistake, and that it was only intended to extend north to the
Arroyo Frijoles, instead of the Arroyo Butano, which latter
is the southern boundary of Gonzales; and that between
these two, and bounded by the sea on the west, is the half
league petitioned for by Sanchez, constituting the valuable
portion of the league granted her by the governor.
It would extend this opinion to an unreasonable length,
discussing mere facts and inferences, to go into all the reasons which justify this conclusion. They are stated at length,
and with much clearness, in the opinion of Judge Hoffman
of the District Court. Among them may be mentioned the
fact, that the land granted to Castro originally constituted
two independent ranches, for one of which, the most northern,

Dec. 1868.]

RoDRIGuES V. 'UNITED STATES.

591

Opinion of the court.

a grant had been previously issued to one Bernal, but which
was surrendered by Castro when he took out a new grant
including both ranches. On the disefio accompanying his
petition these two are laid down, together with other natural
objects, corresponding with a survey of the coast since made,
so as to show that the tract did not extend so far north.
The diseho attached to the original grant to Bernal, the one
that was surrendered, shows also that its northern boundary
was the Arroyo Frijoles. The disefio found with the petition
of Sanchez shows that her grant must have occupied the
space between the Arroyo Butano and Arroyo Frijoles. Now,
if the Mexican governor really intended that Castro should
join Gonzales on the north, there was no place for the grant
to Ramona Sanchez, which, he says, is bounded by the sea
on the west, and borders on the lands of the heirs of Castro.
It is objected to this location of the grant that it places it
on land which has already been confirmed, surveyed, and
patented to the representatives of Castro. The answer to
this is, that we are called on in this proceeding to determine
where the grant toflhe present claimant ought rightfully to
be located, who was not a party to any of the proceedings
by which Castro's claim was confirmed, surveyed, or patented, and is not therefore bound or concluded by either the
decree, survey, or patent, as expressly enacted by the fifteenth
section of the act of 1851. For Castro's survey was made
before the act of 1860, and there was no opportunity for
this claimant to contest its location. And lastly, it may be
added, that the holder of the Castro claim has made himself
a party to the present proceeding, and must be bound by its
result; and if the errors of his grant and survey are corrected, so that the boundary of both claims shall be rightfully established, no wrong can accrue either to him or
claimant.
It has been strenuously urged that if the original half
league petitioned for by Sanchez has been correctly located,
that the remainder of th3 league granted her should be taken
out of the surplus of the Gonzales grant, instead of extending the grant eastward to the Sierra for quantity. It is suffi-

592

POMEROY'S LESSEE V. BANK OF INDIANA.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

cient to say that we see no reason for.making the distorted
survey which this would require, and encroaching upon settlers who have made pre-emptions, merely that claimant
may get better land than he does by extending his grant
eastward to the mountains, as his grant seems to demand.
On the whole case, without that full and satisfactory conviction of the entire soundness of the decree below, which
is desirable, but which is perhaps unattainable in many of
these cases, we see no better course than to
AFFIRM THE DECREE.

POMEROY'S LESSEE V. THE STATE BANK OF INDIANA.
1. No "1exception" lies to overruling a motion for a new trial, nor for entering judgment.
2. The entries on a judge's minutes, the memoranda of an exception taken,
are not themselves bills of exception, but are only evidences of the parties right seasonably to demand a bill of exceptions; memoranda, in
fact, for preserving the rights of the party in case the verdict should be
against him, and he should desire to have the case reviewed in an appellate tribunal. No exceptions not reduced to writing and sealed by
the judge, is a bill of exceptions, properly speaking, and within the
rules and practice of the Federal courts. The seal, however, being to
the bill of exceptions, and not to each particular exception contained in
it, it is sufficient if the bill be sealed, as is the practice in the first
and
second circuits, at its close only.
3. Where an objection is to the ruling of the court, it is indispensable that
the ruling should be stated, and that it should also be alleged that the
party then and there excepted.
4. This court cannot give judgment as on an. agreed statement of facts or
case stated, except where facts, and facts only, are stated, If there be
question as to the competency or effect of evidence, or any rulings of
the court below upon evidence to be examined, the court cannot entertain the case as an agreed statement. Burr v. The Des MAoines Co. (ante,
p. 99), affirmed.
5. *Where a case is brought here upon a writ of error issued under the 22d
section of the Judiciary Act, and there is neither bill of exceptions,
agreed statement, nor special verdict brought up, the judgment, generally speaking, will be affirmed; as it was in this case. Bur v. The
Das Mfoines Co. (ante, p. 99), where the case was "dismissed," simply.
was special in its circumstances.

