MALARIN v. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

landlord and tenant exists, and no definite period is fixed for
the termination of the estate, but where a lease is to expire
at a certain time, a notice to quit is not necessary in order
to recover in ejeetment, because to hold over would be
wrong after the duration of the estate was fixed and well
known to lessor and lessee. In an executory contract of
purchase the possession is originally rightful, and it may be
that, until the party in possession is called upon to restore it,
he cannot be ejected without a demand or notice to quit.
But the vendee can forfeit his right of possession, and if he
fails to comply with the terms of sale, his possession afterwards is tortious, and there is an immediate right of action
against him.* It would be an idle ceremony to demand possession, when to a previous demand for the money due on
the contract of purchase, the vendee refused to respond.
This refusal, unaccompanied by any promise to pay the
money at a future day, was equivalent to a direct notice to
Von Phul that Gregg declined to execute the contract.
This action is a possessory one, and it settles nothing but
the right of possession. The equities between the parties
must be determined in another proceeding.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED WITH COSTS.

MALA-RIN V. UNITED STATES.
'When the validity of a Mexican grant has been affirmed by a decree of the
District Court, and an appeal is taken by the claimant seeking a modi-

fication of the decree as to the extent of land embraced by the grant,
but no appeal from such decree is taken by the United States, the validity of the grant is not open to consideration upon the appeal.
When a grant of land, issued and delivered, is subsequently altered in the
quantity granted by direction of the grantor, on the application of the
grantee, and is then redelivered to the grantee, such redelivery is in
legal effect a re-executi6n of the grant.
"When a Mexican grant issued to the claimant is alleged to have been
fraudulently altered after it was issued in the designation of the quan* Prentice v. Wilson, 14 Illinois, 92; Baker v. Lessee of Gittings, 16
Ohio, 489.

Dec. 1863.]

MALARIN V. 'UNITED STATES.
Statement of the case.

tity granted, a record of juridical possession, delivered to the grantee
soon after the execution of the grant, showing that the quantity of
which possession was delivered was the larger quantity stated in the
grant, is entitled to great consideration in determining the character
of the alteration, particularly when there has been a long subsequent
occupation of the premises.

THIS was an appeal by Malarin and another, executors of
Pacheco, from the decree of the District Court of the United
States, for the Southern District of California; the case
being thus:
Pacheco claimed a tract of land in California, known as
the Bolsa de San FEelipe, or Sack of St. Philip, under a grant
alleged to have been issued to him in October, 1840, by Alverado, then Mexican Governor of the department.
In 1852, he presented a petition to the Board of Commissioners appointed by the act of Congress of March 3d, 1851,
to settle the respective rights of the United States and claimants under the former government, asking for the confirmation of his claim. He produced in support of it, before the
board, froym the archives of the former government, his petition to the Mexican Governor, Alverado, for the grant
specifically of the Bolsa de San Felipe, the reports of the local
authorities, and their proceedings thereon. He produced,
also, a formal grant to him, signed by the Governor and attested by the Secretary of State, bearing date on the 4th of
October, 1840, with a record of juridical possession delivered
to him.
This record contained,A deed by Governor Alverado, dated October 14, 1840,
reciting that Pacheco had solicited the land known by the
name of " Bolsa de San Felipe;" and that the necessary steps
and investigations having taken place, and been made in conforinity with the law and regulations, he, the said governor,
had granted to him the said land, subject to the approval of
the Departmental Junta, and to certain "conditions :" among
these were two, thus expressed:
"He shall request the respective justice to give him Juridical possession in virtue of this decree; saidjusticewill desig

MALARIN V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

nate the boundaries, at the limits whereof the grantee shall, besides
placing the land-marks, plant some fruit trees, or wild ones
of some utility.
"The land whereof mention is made comprises two square
leagues (dos sitios de ganado mayor), a little more or less by
the plat which accompanies the expediente. The magistrate
who gives possession shall cause it to be measured according
to la-, leaving the surplus which may result to the natimn for the
necessary uses."
INext follows, a memorandum by Jimeno, that "this title
has been recorded in the respective book on the back of
folio 8." Then a petition from Pacheco himself, dated 1st
February, 1841, to the Sefior judge of the district, reciting
"that having obtained ownership of the land called Bolsa de
San Felipe, which was granted to me on the 14th of October,
1840, as appears by the title and plat which I have the honor
to accompany," he, Pacheco, begs that the judge, in virtue
of his "attributions," would be pleased to fix a day for giving
him, Pacheco, possession. A marginal decree, dated February 12, 1841, then follows. "Proceed," it orders, "to give
the possession asked for, to which effect, Friday, the 19th
inst., is appointed. Let the neighboring landholders be
summoned; appointing previously measurers and counters,
informing them thereof, that they accept and take oath."
Accordingly, on the 19th of February, the day which the
justices had fixed, the neighboring landholders assembledthe record mentioned-on the ground; two citizens were appointed to measure the land; neighbors consented to the
appointment; measurers were sworn "in the name of the
Lord our God, and by the sign of the Holy Cross," to perform their duty truly; two other citizens were appointed and
sworn as counters; the length of the cord was accurately
ascertained in the presence of all parties. These preliminaries being all transacted, recorded, and duly attested, the
measuring began. The quantity of the land was ascertained
to be two leagues, or perhaps a little more, on account of the
irregularity of the ground. "Thereupon," continued the
record, "the neighbors being all satisfied with the measurement, they went, with the witnesses, the judge, and the peti-

Dec. 1863.]

MALARIN V. UNITED STATES.

285

Statement of the case.

tioner, to the centre of the land, where the judge ordered
the petitioner to enter into possession, which the petitioner
did by "pulling up grass and making demonstrationsas owner."
This proceeding was ordered to be recorded, and the original
"expediente" to be returned to the party: which order, as the
record showed, had been obeyed; the proceedings being entered in the book of possessions.
The claimant proved that he had been in the use and
occupation of the premises where he now was since the date
of juridical delivery of possession.
The board adjudged the claim valid, and entered a decree
confirming it to the extent of two square leagues; provided
that quantity were contained within the boundaries called
for in the grant and a map to which the grant referred;
but if there were less than that quantity within such boundaries, then the confirmation was to be for such less quantity. In fact, the boundaries embraced a little more than
two leagues.
Appeal was taken by the United States to the District
Court, and while the case was pending there Pacheco died,
and the executors of his will, Malarin and another, were
substituted in his place, and the subsequent proceedings

were conducted in their names. The District Court, while
holding the title of Pacheco valid, limited it, notwithstanding, to one league. The court, it seemed, had been led to
this decree by the fact that there was an erasure on the
original grant. The Spanish word "dos," "two," in designating the quantity preceding the corresponding Spanish
word for "leagues," it was plain, had been written upon an
erasure, where it was said that the word "uno," "one," had
been before. Experts being called, one of them, familiar
with writing and with the effect of time on ink, thought
that if the alteration had been made at the time of the execution it might have the appearance which it now presented,
and he did not see anything which led him to believe that
the alteration was of a later date, except that it was an
erasure. Another expert, judging from the difference in
the color of the ink, thought that the alteration had been

286

MALARIN v. UNITEr, STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

made at least five years after the rest was written, although
if ink of different consistencies had been used, it might
have been wr tten at the same time, and bear the present
appearance.
Governor Alverado, who issued the grant, and a clerk in
the office of the Secretary of State at the time, were examined. Alverado was examined twice. On his first examination, which was in May, 1858, he said: "I noticed, when
the grant was presented to me for my signature, that the
clerk had made a mistake by writing one league where he
should have written two. I sent the grant back to the secretary's office to repair the mistake, and have the word
' two' inserted instead of ' one,' which he did, and reported
to me to that effect" Alverado swore, also, that the order
which he gave to the secretary was to issue a grant for two
leagues, more or less; that this he remembered well, as likewise the order to alter the mistake that was made at the time.
In his second examination, however, which was in January,
1861, nearly three years after the first one, he testified that
the title, as given to Pacheco, was for one league, and that
he (Pacheco) "made the reflection, that one league was not
conformable, but in fact the title should and ought to have
been for two leagues." "Then," continued the witness,
"I gave the order that the title should be returned to the
secretary's office, that that amendment should be made, and
I was informed that the amendment was made accordingly."
In answer to the question, when the title was returned to the
secretary's office to be amended? he answered, that it was
within one, two, or three days from the time the title was delivered; but that he could not say particularly. This lastgiven testimony of Alverado conformed to that given by the
clerk in the office ofthe Secretary of State, who was examined on the same day and at the same place when Governor Alverado last testified. Alverado, also, in answer to a
question, if he "recollected" by whom the deed was written, answered, by "Francisco Arc, clerk in the office."
Arc himself swore, however, that it was not written by him,
but was written by another clerk named Astrada, whose

Dec. 1863.]

MALARIN V. 'UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the court.

handwriting resembled his own. This clerk was not produced, nor explanation offered for his absence.
Mr. Willes, for the United States, relied largely on the evidence of forgery and fraud, as exhibited by the erasures;
upon the contradictory and untrustworthy character of Alverado's evidence, and upon the omission to produce the
clerk, Astrada, who had drawn the deed.
Mr. J. S. Black, contra.
Mr. Justice FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.
In his petition to the Board of Land Commissioners, Pacheco represented that in October, 1840, a grant of a tract of
land, known by the name of Balsa de San Felipe, was issued
to him by Alverado, then Governor of the Department of
California.
The board adjudged the grant to be valid, and confirmed
the claim of the petitioner under it to the extent of two
square leagues. On appeal, the District Court modified the
decree of the board, affirming the validity of the title of
Pacheco, but limiting it to one square league. From this
latter decree the present appeal is taken by the executors of
the claimant, he having died pending the proceedings. The
United States were satisfied with the decree, and did not
appeal. The case therefore stands in this court upon the
question, whether the parties representing the claimant are
entitled under the grant to a confirmation of the title to one
or two square leagues.
No question can be raised here upon the genuineness and
authenticity of the grant to Pacheco. The Government
having declined to appeal, the validity of the grant is not
open for consideration.
In modifying the decree of the board, the District Court
appears to have been influenced by the opinion that the
grant had been fraudulently altered after it was issued, so
as to purport to eonvey to the grantee two leagues, when it
originally conveyed only one. It appears that preceding
the term leagues the word one was originally written in the

MALARIN

. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

instrument, and was subsequently altered to the word two,
or to be more accurate, an alteration was thus made in
Spanish terms, corresponding with these English words.
But, as the counsel of the appellants very justly observes,
the grant could not be operative for any purpose except upon
the conclusion that the alteration was made before its execution, or if subsequently made, that it was made with the
sanction of the granting power. If valid therefore to pass
one league, it must be held valid to pass the two leagues
which it purports on its face to pass.
It is not necessary, however, to rest our decision upon this
consideration.

Nor is it necessary to invoke the presump-

tion which counsel insist the law raises as to the date of the
alteration. The authorities upon the latter point are not
uniform. Some of them hold, that where there are no particular circumstances of suspicion connected with the alteration, the presumption of law is that the alteration was

made contemporaneously with the execution of the instrument, giving as the reason for the conclusion that a deed
cannot be altered after its execution without fraud, which
is never to be assumed without proof; other authorities hold
the presumption to be the other way, and require an explanation of the alteration before the deed can be admitted in
evidence.*
In the case under consideration the proofs remove all
suspicion from the alteration, whatever may be the presumption of the law. The governor who issued the grant testifies substantially that the alteration was made by his direction, and that the grant was subsequently delivered or
redelivered to the grantee. If this were the case, it is immaterial whether the alteration was made before the grant
had received his signature or after it had been once delivered. The redelivery after the alteration, if such were
the fact, was in legal effect a re-execution of the grant. That
664;
1616; 1 Greenleaf on Evidence,
* See 2 Taylor on Evidence,
Doe v. Catomore, 16 Q.. B., 745; Simmons v. Rudall, 1 Simons, N. S.,
136; Administrators of Beaman v. Russell, 2J Verm, ut, 205; Jordan v
Stewart, 23 Pennsylvania State, 244.

Dec. 1863.]

MALARIN V. UNITED STATES.

Opinion of the court

some discrepancy should exist in the statements of the ,rovernor at different times, with reference to a transaction
which had occurred more than eighteen years before, is not
surprising. His statements are consistent and positive to
the effect that the alteration was made by his direction, and
that the grant was delivered or redelivered afterwards; and
they disagree only upon the point whether the alteration
was made before.or after the grant had been once delivered.
The clerk in the office of the secretary, who attested the
grant, corroborates the testimony of the governor, that the
alteration was made by his direction. The juridical possession of the two leagues, delivered to the grantee soon after
the execution of the grant, and the subsequent occupation
by him of the premises until his death, a period of nearly
twenty years, dissipates whatever doubt might otherwise
exist as to the truth of the statement of the governor in this
particular.
When thegrant to Pacheco was issued there still remained
another proceeding to be taken for the investiture of the title.
Under the civil, as at the common law, a formal tradition
or livery of seizin of the property was necessary. As preliminary to this proceeding the boundaries of the quantity
granted had to be established, when there was any uncertainty in the description of the premises. Measurement and
segregation in such cases therefore preceded the final delivery
of possession. By the Mexican law various regulations were
prescribed for the guidance in these matters of the magistrates of the vicinage. The conditions annexed to the grant
in the case at bar required the grantee to solicit juridical
possession from the proper judge. In compliance with this
requirement, within four months after the issue of the grant,
he presented the instrument to the judge of the district, and
requested him to designate a day for delivering the possession. The judge designated a day, and directed that the adjoining proprietors be cited, and that measurers and counters
be appointed. On the day designated the proprietors appeared, and two measurers and two counters were appointed,
and sworn for the faithful discharge of their duties. A line
VOL. 1

19

MALARIN v. UNITED STATES.

[Slip. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

provided for the measurement was produced, and its precise
length ascertained. The measurers then proceeded to measure off the land, the judge and the proprietors accompanying them. The measurement being effected, the parties
went to the centre of the land, and there the judge directed
the grantee to enter into the possession, which he did, and
gave evidence of the fact "by pulling up grass and making
demonstrations as owner of the land." Of.the various steps
thus taken, from the appointment of the day to the final act
of delivery, a complete record was kept by the judge, and
by him transmitted to the grantee after being properly entered upon the "book of possessions." This record was
produced and admitted in evidence, no objection being taken
to its genuineness or authenticity. The first document in this
record is a copy of the original grant produced to the judge,
which specifies two square leagues as the quantity granted.
That portion of the record which specifies the quantity measured also declares it to have been two square leagues, or a
little more on account of the irregularity of the land. The
solemnities attending this official delivery of possession were
well calculated to make an impression upon the minds of the
spectators, and to preserve the recollection of the act. The
ownership, extent, and general location of the land were
matters thus brought within the knowledge of the neighborhood, and were no doubt afterwards the subjects of frequent
reference among the adjoining proprietors. It is possible,
but highly improbable, that serious alteration in the grant
as to the quantity of the land, would have escaped observation and exposure. No suspicion on the subject having been
suggested for eighteen years, is a circumstance of no little
weight to show that no grounds for suspicion ever existed.
The decree of the District Court must be reversed, and
that court directed to. enter a decree confirming the claim
of the appellants to two square leagues under the grant to
Pacheco.
DECREE ACCORDINGLY

