Dec. 1863.]

GODFREY

v.

EAMES.

Statement of the case.

clause as to measurement and surplus made consistent with
the previous language of the grant. The case at bar is entirely dissimilar. Here the grant mentions no quantity, and
reserves no surplus, but on the contrary the third condition
expressly requires the magistrate who gives possession to
advise the government of the number of square leagues the
tract may contain.

DECREE AFFIRMIED.

GODFREY v. EAmES.
If ah applicant for a patent choose to withdraw his application for a patent,
intending, at the time of such withdrawal, to file a new petition, and he
accordingly does so, the two petitions are to be considered as parts of
the same transaction, and both as constituting one continuous application, within the meaning of the seventh sections of the Patent Acts of
1836 and 1839. CLrFORD, J., dissenting.
The question of the continuity of the application is a question to be sub-

mitted to the jury.

THE Patent Act of 1836, provides* that on the filing of an
application for a patent, "the commissioner shall make or
cause to be made an examination of the alleged new invention or discovery, and if on any such examination it shall
not appear to the commissioner that the same had been... in
public use or on sale with the applicant's consent or allowance prior to the application,.., it shall be his duty to issue a
patent therefor, but whenever on such examination it shall
appear to the commissioner that.., the applicant was not the
original and first inventor or discoverer thereof, or that what
is claimed as new had before been invented or discovered,...
or that the description is defective and insufficient, he shall
notify the applicant thereof, giving him briefly such information and references as may be useful in judging of the
propriety of renewing kz aplication, or of altering his specification to embrace only that part of the invention or discovery which is new.
"In every such case," the act goes on to say, " if the apld.i.
*

7, 5 Stat. at Large, 119.

GODFREY

v.

EiAMES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

cant shall elect to withdraw his application, relinquishing his
claim to the model, he shall be entitled to receive back $20,
part of the duty required by this act, on filing a notice in
writing of such election in the Patent Office.... But if the
applicant in such case shall persist in his claim for a patent.
with or without any alteration of his specification, he shall
be required to make oath or affirmation anew, in manner
aforesaid, and if the specification or claim shall not have been
so modified, as in the opinion of the commissioner shall entitle the applicant to a patent, he may on appeal, and upon
request in writing, have the decision of a board of examiners," &c.
A subsequent act-an act of 1839*-provides that those
who shall have purchased, sold, or made the thing patented
." prior to the application of the inventor or discoverer for a
patent, shall be held to possess the right to use and vend to
others to be used" the same; and that "no patent shall be
held to be invalid by reason of such purchase, sale, or use,
prior to the application for a patent as aforesaid, except on
proof of abandonment of such invention to the public, or that
such purchase, sale, or prior use has been for more than two
years prior to such applicationfor a patent."
With these enactments in force, Godfrey, on the 31st January, 1855, filed an application for a patent for boot-trees.
This application the commissioner, on the 17th Mlay, 1855,
rejected for want of-novelty. On the 24th April, 1857, within
the time required by the rules, Godfrey submitted his case
again. The old application was withdrawn, and a new
one filed, simultaneously; the withdrawal fee of $20 going to
make part of the new application fee of $30, and not in fact
being received by the applicant. These different applications
were made through different attorneys, and the description
of invention, the claims of novelty, and the models, were in
some respects different. It was admitted, however, at the
bar, "that that which was finally patented might, if it had
been properly introduced, have been engrafted as an amend*

7 ; 5 Stat. at Large, 854.

Dec. 1863.]

GODFREY V. EPAMES.
Argument for the patentee.

ment to the first application." A patent was issued March
2d, 1858.
It was part of the case "that the patentee, in the summer
and fall of 1854, and since, publicly manufactured and sold
boot-trees containing his alleged invention."
On a suit by the patentee, Godfrey, in the Circuit Court
for the District of Massachusetts, against Eames, for the use
of the boot-tree patented, the question was, whether Godfrey
bad forfeited his patent by more than two years' public use
or sale of his invention, prior to his application. The court
below instructed the jury that he had; and accordingly that
the plaintiff could not recover. The correctness of this instruction, was the matter now before this court on error.
MT~r. Causten Browne, for the plaintiff in error: The proceeding of Godfrey was in pursuance of a settled practice sanctioned by the Patent Office, and amounting simply to amendment and rehearing, with $10 additional fee. From the
spring of 1855 (only a few months after the introduction of
the invention into use), until the grant of the patent, there
was, in fact, never a moment when the inventor was not
applying to the commissioner for his patent. The case is
one of two consecutive applications (no time intervening)
for patent for an invention. Why is the patent declared
invalid upon the ground that the latter one-that which
immediately preceded the grant-is the only one to which
the statute relates?
There is no sufficient ground for such distinction upon the
language of the statute, interpreted with reference to its reason and policy.
The provision of the act has been construed liberally to
uphold the patent.* The terms, "his application for patent," mean not any particular paper application, but his
applying; his maling an application; his preferring a demand for a patent for his invention as new and useful.
Considered -with reference to the policy of this provision,
* Pennock v. Dialogue, 2 Peters, 18.

GODFREY v. EAmrEs.

[Sup. ct .

Argument for the patentee.

it is still more clear that it will not bear the construction
given to it in this case by the court below. This policy was,
that at as early a period as possible, having due regard to the
rights of the inventor, the public should be put in possession
of the best mode of practising the invention, by the deposit
in the Patent Office of an open description thereof by the
inventor.* This description being lodged, together with
demand for patent, the public were secure of the means of
practising the invention when the exclusive right of the inventor should terminate, and the inventor was secure of his
protection unless he abandoned the pursuit of it. Undoubtedly
after an inventor has filed his application for patent, he may
so conduct himself as to show an abandonment of it. If
rejected, he may allow the rejection to stand so long as to
show, itself or with other circumstances, an acquiescence
therein and a final relinquishment of his claim. But having
once filed an application, given the details of his invention
to the public knowledge, and asserted his claim to a patent,
he has satisfied the reasons of the law of 1836; and although
he should afterwards withdraw that application, and some
time should elapse before he renewed it, it is a question for the
jury, whether he has abandoned his claim to a patent, on
which question the fact of withdrawal is evidence only, to be
weighed with other evidence. But in this case, although no
time intervened, the court peremptorily directed the jury to
find for the defendant.
2. If, indeed, the application was to patent something not
existing in the first application, it cannot be considered a continuance of that application. But the fact that he changed
his claim, or other part of his description, does not make it
a different application; nor that he submitted new drawings;
nor that he submitted a new model: if the drawings and
model show a machine substantially the same as before, in
construction and mode of operation. The same invention is
disclosed in each, and might have been fully described and
claimed in the first application; just as a reissue is a patent
Pennock v. Dialogue, 2 Peters, 18; Ryan v. Goodwin, 3 Sumner, 518
Sparkman v. Higgins, I Blatchford, 208.

Dec. 1863.]

GODFREY V. EAMES.
Argument against the patentee.

for the same invention as the original patent, if it was disclosed in the original application, and might have been then
fully described and claimed. If the patentee in this case
could have reissued a patent taken upon his original description and claim, so as to insert the present description and
claim, the commissioner could have allowed a like substitution by way of amendment. A patentee is presumed to
intend to claim all that is new with him. If it appears that
the thing on which a patent was sought, was the same in the
two cases, taking the model, description, and drawings to-'
gether, then it is true that the inventor did, in 1855, put the
public -inpossession of his invention, and of the best mode
of practising it, and has ever since persisted in claiming a
patent therefor; and the policy of the law, if rightly stated
above, is satisfied.
Mr. Brooks, for the defendant in error: The real question
presented is, What became of this application for a patent,
which had been "once rejected," but which was "entitled to
a re-examination ?" Did the applicant "PERSIST in his claim
for a patent, with or without any alteration of his specifica' tion ?" "Hfis claim" for a patent must, we suppose, be held
to refer to the claim or application then before the Patent
Office, and which had been once rejected. None other had
been made, and none other could be persisted in. He did
not persist in such claim; he did not ask for a "re-examination" of his application (the "renewing his application"
mentioned in the act of 1836); but he took the opposite
alternative course authorized by that statute (though not
named by the commissioner of patents), viz., he elected to
withdraw his application, and receive the return fee of $20.
Having made such election, he, in fact, did withdraw his said
application on the 24th April, 1857, under the act of 1886,
and did receive back the return-fee; and the "said application" then withdrawn has never since been the subject of any
action whatever anywhere.
His proceeding is analogous to a discontinuance by a plain:
tiff in a court of law, and the commencement of another suit
VOL. 1.

21

GODFREY

v.

:EAm sE.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument against the patentee.

on the same day, in case the claims of invention and the
causes of action were in each case the same. In both instances, one proceeding is ended, and another is begun, even
though both depended on the same ground precisely. The
case is different where only an amendment is made, aiid the
same suit is prosecuted in an amended form, without new
process or new papers, or even loss of time.
Now, it is a familiar principle, that an action at law must
be commenced within the period limited for that purpose;
and, if not so brought, it is not aided by the fact that another
suit had been previously commenced within such time, and
had been discontinued or dismissed. Were it otherwise,
stale demands might be kept alive forever by means of suits
not brought to trial. So in this case, if the doctrine of the
plaintiff in error is correct, an inventor has it in his power,
after putting his invention into public use, to apply for a
patent, and taking care, in case of one rejection, to withdraw,
and repeat the experiment totics quoties, he thus may, if finally
successful, prolong the period of enjoyment much beyond
that prescribed by law. In fact, if this view of the law is
sanctioned by this court, it becomes the interest of inventors
to delay the grant of patents as long as possible by this very
method, in order to prolong the term of enjoyment. It is
obvious, however, that the patent here in suit, like all others,
was and could be founded upon one application only; and
it appears that such application was made (April 24, 1857),
more than two years after the public use and sale by the
inventor of the alleged invention, whereby the said patent
was made invalid.
We do not put our defence upon the ground, that the
withdrawal of the first application was an abandonment of
his invention. It was merely an abandonment of that applicatior, and left him at lib erty to make other applications as like
or unlike that as he pleased; but inasmuch as, in cases of withdrawal, the model and application-papers are retained in the
Patent Office, and further proceedings to obtain a patent require new papers, differing from former ones at least in time
of execution and filing, and also perhaps presented to officers

Dec. 1863.]

GODFREY

v. EAMES.

Argument against the patentee.

not before having acted in the matter, a first application cannot, in the i-ature of things, be the second, nor a second be
also the first.
It will not, of course, be claimed that what was done in
April, 1857, amounted merely to an amendment of his first
specification, by writing it out anew, as is sometimes allowed
to be done. For that purpose, no second fee or new petition, oath or model, was necessary; and, in such case, no
return of fee could have been allowed.
It is made the duty of the commissioner, by the act of
1836, to issue a patent upon an application duly filed, after
due examination, if, among other things, it shall not appear
that the alleged new invention had been in public use or on
sale, &c., &c., (more than two years) "prior to tMe application." "The application" must mean the one brought before him for examination, and not some previous application
never perhaps known to him. The commissioner has no
judicial discretion in receiving an application. The power
of making one is given absolutely to the inventor. Can it,
then, be pretended that the commissioner would or lawfully
could have granted the patent in this case, had he known
the fact of the public use and sale of the invention in 1854?
"The application" means the several papers required by law
to entitle an inventor to an examination of his alleged invention, and which, if the patent is granted, are annexed to
the letters-patent to distinguish it and fix its character. In
this case, these papers were those filed in 1857, and none
other; so that the prior application of 1855 is wholly immaterial, except upon the question of abandonment, which is
not raised at all in this case. The applicant voluntarily substituted one application for another, as he says. If both were
the same, his motive could not be one favored by the policy
of the patent laws. If they were not the same, and he elected
to give up one for the other, and did so, and got the benefit
of so doing, he cannot rely now on both. If, as we understand the law, the specification makes the patent what it is,
it is manifest that the application of January, 1855, was not
patevted in the grant made in March, 1858.

GO0DFRIEY

v2.EAMES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

[2. The counsel then contended that in fact the object for
which a patent was applied for in 1855, was one so difierent
from that one for which a patent did issue in 1858, that they
could not be considered in substance the same thing; a matter involving a question of fact only.]
Mr. Justice SWAYIN E, after quoting the statutes of 1836
and 1839, delivered the opinion of the court :*
In this case the patentee filed his application in the Patent
Office on the 31st of January, 1855, and from that time it
was constantly before the office, until the patent was issued
on the 2d of March, 1858, except that on the 24th of April,
1857, it was withdrawn and refiled on the same day with au
amended specification. It was admitted and proved "that
the patentee, in the summer and fall of 1854, and since, publicly manufactured and sold boot-trees containing his alleged
invention." The sales and use as thus shown were less than
two years before the first application was filed, and hence,
according to the letter of the act of 1839, cannot affect the
validity of the patent.
In answer to this, two propositions are relied upon by the
plaintiff in error:
1. It is said the original and the renewed application are
for patents for different things.
Both specifications are before us, and it is our duty to construe them.
The act of 1836 gives. the applicant a right to change his
specification after receiving the suggestions of the commissioner. Doubtless, this right exists and may be exercised
independently of such suggestions, at any time before the
commissioner has given his formal judgment upon the application; and the inventor may "persist in his application for.
a patent, with or without any alteration of his specification."
A change in the specification as filed in the first instance, or
the subsequent filing of a new one, whereby a patent is still
sought for the substance of the invention as originally
* Mr. Chief Justice Tancy and Messrs. Justices Wayne, Grier, and Field.
bhd not been present at the argument.

.Dec. 1863.]

GODFREY V. EAMES.
Opinion of the court.

claimed, or a part of it, cannot in any wise affect the sufficiency of the original application or the legal consequences
flowing from it. To produce that result the new or amended
specification must be intended to serve as the basis of a patent for a distinct and different invention, and one not contemplated by the specification, as submitted at the outset.
We are satisfied that there was here such substantial identity in the two specifications as brings the case within the
rule thus laid down. This objection cannot be sustained.
2. It is said that the withdrawal of the first application
broke the continuity of the claim, and that the case stands
as if the only application were the one of the 24th of April,
1857.
This question could not have arisen upon the same state
of facts, under the act of 1836. According to that act, and
the prior legislation of Congress, the public use or sale'by
the inventor of the thing invented, at any time before the
application, was fatal to his claim for a patent The act of
1839 relieved him from this consequence and introduced a
new and more liberal policy. It gave him the right to apply
for a patent at any time within two years after the use and
sale of his invention, "except on proof of the abandonment
of such invention to the public." The provision in the act
of 1886, allowing the withdrawal of the application, was intended only to provide for the disposition in such cases of
the duty which had been deposited,- and to enable the applicant to resume a part of it upon the condition prescribed;
it is silent as to everything beyond this, and we do not feel
authorized to interpolate into the statute so important a qualification. The new provision in the act of 1839, is wholly
independent of the act of 1836; by necessary implication it
repeals the conflicting provision upon the same subject in
the earlier act. It must be examined by its own light, and
so construed as to give the fullest effect to the beneficent
purpose of the legislature.
In our judgment, if a party choose to withdraw his application for a patent, and pay the forfeit, intending at the time
f smiih withdrawal to file a new petition, and he accordingly

UNITED STATES r. JOuNSOix.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.

do so, the two petitions are to be considered as parts of the
same transaction, and both as constituting one continuous
application, within the meaning of the law.
The question of the continuity of the application should
have been submitted to the jury. In directing them to return a verdict for the defendant, we think the learned judge
who tried the case in the court below, committed an error.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD dissents.
JUDGMENT REVERSED AND VENIRE DE NOVO AWARDED.

UNITED STATES V.

JOHNSON.

I Objections to Mexican grants ought not to be taken as if the case was
pending on a writ of error, with a bill of exceptions to the admission of
every item of testimony offered and received below.
2. When there is any just suspicion of fraud or forgery, the defence should
be made below, and the evidence to support the charge should appear
on the record.
. The want of approval of a grant by the Departmental Assembly does
not affect its validity.

fr-om the District Court of the United States for
the Southern District of California, the case being thus:
Johnson and others, the respondents, claimed title under
the Mexican government, through one Chavest a tract of
land called Pleyto, lying in the present county of Monterey,
State of California, and containing about three leagues;
which land he had petitioned for on the 2d of June, 1845.
The deed to Chaves purported to be made on the 18th July,
1845, by Pio Pico, one of the Mexican governors of Cali.
fornia; and it recited that "the necessary steps and investigations were previously taken and made in conformity with
the requirements of laws and regulations." On the 8th May,
1846, the "1expediente"* was laid before the Departmental
APPEAL

* This term expedienk is a term of the Mexican land law, and of course
hot familiar to the reader of law reports in general, though it ha now
become so to those of the reports of this court.
,"When complete, an expediente usually consists of the petition

