WHEELER V. SAGE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

WHEELER V. SAGE.
Where a firm, whose business was "a general produce business," owned a
mortgage on real estate, which real estate itself the firm was desirous
to purchase u:mer the mortgage, and intrusted the subject generally to
one of the firm,-held, that the legal obligation of the partner intrusted
being onlF to get payment of the mortgage, he might make an arrangement for his own benefit with a third person, without the knowledge
of his partners, by which such third person should buy the mortgaged
estate, giving him, the intrusted partner, an interest in it; and if the
mortgage debt was fully.paid by such partner into the firm account,
that there was no breach of partnership or other fiduciary relation in
the transaction; or, at least, that no other partner could recover from
him a share of profits made by a sale of the real estate; all parties
alike having been originally engaged in a scheme to get the real estate
by depreciating its value through a process of entering a judgment for
a large nominal amount, and by deceiving or "bluffing off" other creditors.
THIS was an appeal from the District Court of the United
States for the District of Wisconsin; the case in that court
having been one of a bill in equity, by which the appellant
'Wheeler sought to charge Sage as his trustee. The material
facts, as set forth in the bill, were these:
On the 12th day of September, 1851, Wheeler, Sage, and
Slocum entered into an equal copartnership, to carry on "a
general produce business" in Troy, New York. The firm became the owner of a large debt against Alanson Sweet, of
Milwaukee, which was secured by mortgage on valuable
real estate. Proceedings to foreclose were commenced'in
October, 1854, and a decree passed in November, 1855.
Sweet was insolvent, with heavy judgments against him.
The parties were desirous of getting a perfect title to the mortgaged premises, their value being, when the mortgage was
given, $50,000. In order to do this, it was thought necessary
that certain judgments should be purchased and other arrangements perfected, which Sage informed 'Wheeler and
Slocum could be done through a certain Alexander Mitchell,
?or $10,000. Sage was authorized to perfect the agreement,
and to charge Wheeler and Slocum their proportionate
amount on the books of the firm. This agreement, or a

Dec. 1863.]

WHEELER V. SAGE.
Statement of the case.

similar one, was made by Sage with Mitchell, and judgments
purchased under it. Without the knowledge of Wheeler,
Sage, however, abandoned this agreement, and made one
with Mitchell for his own benefit. The mortgaged property
was sold, and Mitchell became the purchaser, letting Sage
have one-third interest on certain conditions; this being
done, as alleged, in violation of the rights and without the
knowledge of Wheeler and Slocum. The mortgage debt
was fixed at $24,000, two-thirds of which amount was paid
over by Sage to Wheeler and Slocum, being, as he said, the
best that could be don6, and which was accepted by Wheeler
and Slocum on that hypothesis. Enough of the mortgaged
property, the bill alleged, had been sold to produce $105,000,
leaving unsold what was worth $27,000. The prayer of the
bill was, that Sage might be declared to be trustee for
Wheeler for one-third of the mortgaged property still held
and unsold by Mitchell, and for one-third of the proceeds
of what had been sold; and be decreed to account.
Sage, in his answer, admitted that the firm was desirous
of becoming the owner in fee of the premises mortgaged,
and that it was thought by an expenditure of $10,000 that the
object could be attained; and that an arrangement to this
effect was contemplated with Mitchell, but became impracticable, and was abandoned: that Mitchell controlled the defence, which was serious and complicated, and it was feared
by Wheeler that it might so far prevail as to lessen the
amount of the mortgage debt. After considerable negotiation, a basis of settlement was agreed to by the partners
and Mitchell, which fixed the amount due on the mortgage
at $24,000. The defence wa withdrawn, and a decree entered (at the instance of Mitchell) for $33,000, which was to
be discharged on the payment of $24,000 by Mitchell, or at
his election the decree,was to be assigned to him. Mitchell
preferred a sale to cut off an intervening claim. Sage admitted that, after the sale, he became interested in one-third
of the property, but denied that Wheeler and Slocum have
ever had, or were ever entitled to any interest whatever
therein, and averred that when the sale was made there was

WHEELER V. SAGE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

no subsisting agreement or understanding other than that
said Mitchell should pay the amount agreed upon at the
time of sale. The answer also denied that the mortgaged
premises were of the value stated in the bill, and insisted
that enough had not been realized from their sale to pay
Sage the sum of $24,000.
A general replication was filed, and proofs were taken.
In regard to the plan of getting a "perfect title" to the premises, it appeared by these that Sweet had about thirty different judgment creditors (Mitchell holding a judgment for
$18,556.04, and the remaining creditors, exclusive of the
Troy firm, for $59,597.73); that the principal item of the
mortgaged premises was a warehouse, valued, when the mortgage was given, at $50,000, but of which the rise in value
had been so great, that when the bill was filed it had come
to be valued by some persons at twice that sum. The firm,
accordingly, did not want to receive their money and interest
under the proceeding to foreclose, but wanted to get the
warehouse itself; of which, indeed, they had been for some
time in possession, and which they were now actually occupying, with apparent exercise of ownership. But there were
difficulties in the case. Sweet thought that with the rise
of this property, which would occur by a railroad about to be
made near it,-the Lake Shore Railroad,-he would be able
to reinstate his affairs, and his judgment creditors looked to
the same possibility as the means of at least getting the
amount of their debts. Sweet accordingly threatened to
redeem; and the creditors were watching the course of
events. The object of Wheeler, Sage, and Slocum was,
therefore, to get the warehouse itself under their mortgage,
and for no more, or for little more, than its principal and
interest. The operation was to be performed, in part, by
buying in certain judgments at a discount, and in part by
securing Sweet's acquiescence, in virtue of a consideration,
to their getting a decree as speedily as possible, and an arranged sort of sale on foreclosure. The following extracts,
or parts or copies of letters, selected from a large number in
the record, give an idea of the process. The firm, it ap-

Dec. 1863.]

WHEELM

V. SAGE.

Statement of the case.

peared, was represented in Troy by Messrs. Sage (M. C.) &
Slocum, as R. Sage & Co.; and in Milwaukee by Mr.
Wheeler, as Wheeler & Co.
[WHEELER TO SAGE.)
MILWAuKEE,

October 11, 1858.

MESSRS. R. SAGE & Co.

GENTLE MEN: Had conversation this morning with Mr. Sweet;
says he shall try and have some one redeem, and knows whore
he can get the money; that the property was worth $90,000, as
other property was selling, and wanted 10,000 for his aid in
perfecting title, which he says he can do. I remarked to him
that it would be no object to him to redeem, as his judgmentcreditors would take it all from him again. He said he knew it,
but in all human probability he should defend. I remarked that
his services might be worth something to you in perfecting title,
but no such sum as he named.... I think if you can secure his
quietness, that you would be safe from any creditors. I am
of the opinion that if terms could be made with him for $3000,
payable when title is perfected, it would be a good thing to do.
Let us hear from you what you think.
Yours, truly,
WHEXER & Co.

On the 26th Nfovember, 1853, Wheeler writes to Sage:
"Mr. Sweet is defending the suit of foreclosure of warehouse
property; can't imagine what he does it for, unless it is to
make you pay him for keeping still, or to stave it off until
the property should rise more in value. Sweet is wilifull."
*Wheeler says subsequently, at different dates: "I think
there is a game, an intrigue in the defence, against the warehouse property. There may be a collision of parties that we
little expect... Sweet is ugly, and is determined to make you
all the trouble he can;" "is trying to make some defence
in your chancery suit of warehouse property; is around
amongst the warehouse men making inquiries what it is
worth." "These chancery suits are long-winded." "There
is no earthly doubt but that the warehouse property is worth
$50,000; nor but that it would sell for that now." "The
propety is variously estimated fiom $50,000 to $100,000."

522

WHEELEI V. SAGE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

"I think I I ave found a responsible man who will take it at
$4000 rent.'
[WHEELER. TO SAGE.]
MILWAUKEE, September 11, 1854
1.oN. R. SAGE.
DE.
SIR: Mr. Sweet says that he has figured up, and finds

he can cancel all obligations (and that there is about $100,000),
for $12,000, and that if you were disposed to take hold and give
paper.to that amount, on three, six, nine, and twelve months,
he could clear the property in twenty days. Also, there is parties here who have proposed to him to raise what money is necessary to pay your mortgage, and buy up the other obligations,
and divide with him what they could make out of it. I am of
the opinion, and I say it to you in confidence, that your attorney did not crowd the suit at the last term with sufficient
energy. If he had, he could have got the decree. I say it to
you, as the fraternity say, "on the square," and there is no mistake about it. There has been some collusion for others' benefit
somewhere. If I could see you, I could tell you, so you would
see through the whole arrangement better than I can on paper.
But you now have enough to put you on the alert.
Very truly, yours,
WHEELER & Co.
[SAGE TO WHEELER.]

TROY, April 24, 1855.

MESsRS. WHEELER & Co.

Mr. Slocum returned yesterday; says he saw Sweet, and had
a'long talk with him; thinks Sweet has a friend that is going
to bid in the property; but thinks an arrangement could be made
to avoid this by giving a certain sum to Sweet, conditioned that we
should get a decreefor the amount, and sell the property, and perfect
our title. I think he and I may come out there next week, and
look into the matter, and see if something of the kind may not
be best. Of course, you must keep all quiet, and treat Sweet
Very truly,
kindly.
RUSSELL SAGE.
[W3EELEB

TO SAGE.]

.MILWAUKEE, May 5, 1855.
..
DEN.
B. SAGE.
])E AR SmR: I have seen F. in regard to you and Mkr. Slocum

.Dec. 1863.]

WHEELER VJ. SAGE.

Statement of the case.

coming here; he thinks favorable of it; but said you made a
mistake in not buying up those old judgments. 'However, he
now thinks if you can buy Sweet's peace, that the creditorsof
Sweet could be bluffed off by getting a large decree, and taking a proper time to sue it, and the price of Sweet's peace to be contingent to
the final adjustment of title. Sweet is now at Grand Haven.....
So you had better come out next week, or at farthest week after
next, and you will almost be sure to see him.
Yours, truly,
WHEELER & Co.
[SAGE TO WHEELER.]

C. H. WHELR,

TRoT, May 19, 1855.

EsQ.

DEAP. Sm: I saw Mr. Mitchell a few minutes last night, on his
way to New York; and agreed with him to have the suit put
over.... Mr. Mitchell repeated what he said to you, as you state
in your letter of the 15th, and said you offered to pay $10,000
for a clear title. I told him I thought we would do this. I
have talked with Mr. Slocum, and he is in favor of it.... In the
meantime everything must be kept quiet, as I will fidvise farther
after seeing him in New York on Monday next. I am satisfied
we can't do anything without some such course of action as
this. This must be kept still, however, until all is accomplished.
Now I have some fears about the renting of the warehouse until
we get through. I will consider it, and advise you hereafter.
Yours, truly,
IRUSSELL SAGE
[WHEELER TO SAGE.]

.HMILWAUKEE, May 18, 1854.
.EoN. R. SAGE.
DE. SiR: We have telegraphed you to-day as follows: "See
Mitchell; come to Milwaukee, court setting; Sweet here; adjust
title now or never." I have had long conversation with Finch
in regard to our suit with Sweet. I have ordered him to buy
what judgments that he represented, some $5000, at twenty-five
to thirty cents on the dollar, if he could. If we do not make
some arrangements with S. to stop defence, and let us have a
decree this term, we will, in the ultimation, have to take the
money on the mortgage, as the property has risen more than
100 p. c. within the last two years, and we came to the conclu.

[Sup. ot

WHEELER V. SAGE.

Statement of the ease.
sion that you and IMr. Slocum should come out at once and try
to perfect something.
Yours, truly,
WHEELER & CO.
[SAM~E TO SAME.]

RoN.

SMILWUZEE,

R. SAGE.

May

9, 1855.

DEA SiR: I dislike this delay in our warehouse suit, as the
property is increasing in value so fast, and now the Lake Shore
Railroad is done, it will give a fresh impetus, and if we do not
get a decree.pretty soon, there will be hordes of speculators that
will run the property, on sale, to $50,000, if not more.
Yours, truly,
WHEELER & CO.
[SAGE TO WHEELER.]

TROY, May 23, 1855.
C. H. WHEELER, ESQ.

DEAR SIR: Yours of 18th and 19th are before me. As to the
warehouse suit, would say we cannot hurry it. I think my
arrangement with Mitchell will succeed.... You can readily see
that with this arrangement, we shall be quite sure to succeed
with Mitchell at home. At any rate, we shall get a large and full
decree, which we could not get without this, and with the judgments in
our own hands, it is almost a certainty that we shall get throughjust
as we expect to. As to the renting of the warehouse, would say
I think it would have been better to have kept along as we are,
until we get a decree and sale, and should prefer it now, if you
can arrange with your man. If you cannot, then you must do
the best thing you can, and keep as quiet as you possibly can.
I think the least said the better. Mitchell will put all right
with Sweet.
Yours, truly,
RUSSELL SAGE.
[SAME TO SAME.]
TROY, June 4, 1855.
MESSRS. WHEELER & CO.

GENTLEMEN: As to the renting of the warehouse, would say
I consider it risky to do so, and should favor keeping along iR
its full possession until we get a decree and sale. You can readily see what the effect of a $4000 rent would have with a court or
jury compared with one of $2000. I think you had better say to

Dec. 1863.]

"WHEELERLV. SAGE.

Argument for Wheeler.

Mr. Butten that I own the house, and will not consent to rent it
until my suit is ended, which I supposed would have been done
at the present term; that he should have the preference of it so
soon as this can be accomplished, &c. This, it strikes me, is
clearly the most wise and politic course to take; certainly it is,
if we expect to get the property, and keep down competition....
It may be a little embarrassing to you, but thrice it me.
Yours, truly,
RussELL SAGE.
At a subsequent date, Sage went to Milwaukee, and took
the negotiation largely into his own hands; the issue of it
being as already stated.
The court below dismissed the bill, which dismissal was
the matter now complained of on appeal.
Mr. Emmons, for the appellant, Wheeler:
1. It may be mentioned as a preliminary objection that
the complainant has never offered to refund the money received from Sage. If Wheeler would take advantage of
Sage's contract with Mitchell, he must take it in whole, and
exactly as Sage made it. He should not be permitted to
hold us in a lawsuit, and to speculate upon the chances of
prospective value of what Sage received from Mitchell.*
2. The bill of complaint itself states in the outset that the
partners were engaged in "a general produce business."
Admit that the mortgage debt was treated as a partnership
adventure. What then? The partnership gained thereby
no interest in the mortgaged premises. The complainant
assumes that with the ownership of the debt the firm acquired
a vested interest in the real estate by which it was secured,
and a right to "secure a perfect title;" but this is not so.
When Sage had collected the debt, and accounted for it,
there all agency ceased. He might, during the existence of
the copartnership, have acquired in his own right the equity
* 1 Leading Cases Equity, by Hare & Wallace, 157, note; Ibid., 167,
note; Wilson v. roulter, 2 Strange, 859; Reid et al. v. Hibbard, 6 Wisconsin, 175; Clark v. Baker, 5 Metcalf, 452.

V

HEELER V. SAGE.

[Sup. (it

Argument for Sage.

of redemption, without violating any legal duty or trust
springing from his relation as a copartner. His contract,
therefore, with Mitchell for an interest in the premises
-whether before or after the foreclosure sale-was no
breach of his obligation as a partner. He could in his own
right have become a purchaser at the sale, paying down, of
course, the mortgage-moneys.
3. If the complainant has established any theory by his
bill and proofs, it is that the firm of Wheeler & Co. aimed at
purchasing title to the mortgaged premises, not by paying
the value of them, or what they would bring by fair competition at public sale, but by combination tending to outvie
or deceive other creditors, and to repress rivalry and competition. That courts will refuse relief in such a case is undeniable. -Randallv. Howard,* in this court, is in point, and
the authorities show that the refusal will be made under
almost any variation of circumstances that can be conceived.t
Mr. Carpenter, contra:
1. The objection that in his bill the complainant did not
offer to pay back the sum which Sage paid him at the time
of the sale, as his proportion of the money secured by the
mortgage, is a technical objection only; one to the frame of
the bill; and can be taken advantage of only by demurrer.T
The bill states that Sage has received under said contract
with Mitchell much more than the amount paid by him to
Wheeler, and it is for his proportion of that surplus that
Wheeler brings this suit.
2. We may admit that the proper business of the partnership was dealing in produce, and not in purchasing real
estate. Still a purchase of real estate which had been mort.
2 Black, 585.
t Phippen v. Stickney, 3 Metcalf, 384; Bexwell v. Christie, 1 Cowper,
895; Howard v. Castle, 6 Term, 642; Veazie v. Williams, 8 Howard, 134Hawley v. Cramer, 4 Cowen, 717; Fuller v. Abrahams, 3 Broderip & Bingham, 116; Jones v. Caswell, 3 Johnson's Cases, 29; Doolin v. Ward, 6 Johnson, 194; Wilbur v. Howe, 8 Id., 444; Thompson v. Davies, 13 Id., 114.
: Story, Equity Pleading, 453, 528.
*

Dec. 1863.]

WHEELER V. SAGE.
Opinion of the court.,

gaged to the firm, for a produce debt, or of which the mortgage came into the firm as cash assets, was quite within its
sphere. The purchase was by way of protection; and the
estate was to come into the firm, incidentally only. The question then is, whether in such a case, i. e. where one partner
has been intrusted by his copartners as agent of the firm to
purchase on joint account, and on joint account has undertaken so to buy, he can, in good conscience, carry on a long
operation, corresponding with his confiding partners in a
most confidential way, and then, when he sees the path
clear to a profitable operation, dismiss those copartnerscopartners, in this special operation, independently of all
general relations-and put the profits into his own pocket?
We submit that he cannot. As the agent of his copartners,
Sage's relation was a highly fiduciary one, and he must not
abuse it to his own benefit.
3. We admit, too, the general rule of law, that where a
bill seeks to enforce a contract which rests in illegality, or
which was entered into to defraud others, the court will not
hear the parties, and thus give effect to an illegal agreement.
Such was the case of .Randallv. Howard, in this court, cited
on the other side. But when a defendant is called to an accounting in a court of equity for breach of trust, he is never
permitted to set up that the fund was created in some illegal
way. In Barney v. Saunders,* this court compelled a trustee
to account for usurious interest, illegally taken by him on
the trust fund. This, then, is not a case where the Hon. Mr.
Sage can make infamy his shield, and by setting up this defence, sacrifice his character for a money "equivalent."
Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
The right to recover is placed mainly on two grounds.
I'rst. That Sage, in the absence of any agreement, could
not by private treaty become interested in the mortgaged
property, to the exclusion of the other partners.
Second. That there was an agreement that Sage should act
16 Howard, 535; see also 2ceBlair v. Gibbes, 17 Id. 232.

WHEELER V. SAGE.

[Sup. ot.

Opinion of the court.

as the agent of his copartners in perfecting the title to the
mortgaged premises; and having violated his agreement
and made a private bargain with Mitchell for his individual
benefit, he is chargeable as trustee.
Each partner is the agent of his copartners in all transactions relating to partnership business, and is forbidden to traffic therein for his own advantage, and if he does, will be held
accountable for all profits. But beyond the line of the trade
or business in which the firm is engaged, there is no restraint
on his right to traffic. As one partner has no authority to
bind the firm outside of their ordinary business, he cannot
of course be held liable to account, should he make a profitable adventure in a matter not legitimately connected with
the business of the firm. The difficulty generally is, to
ascertain what acts are within the scope of the particular
trade or business. But in this case there is no embarrassment whatever in the application of the principle. This was
a partnership to do a general produce business. It contemplated no dealings in real estate, and each partner was at
liberty to buy and sell real estate, and was under no legal
liability to account to his copartners. The debt due from
Sweet belonged to the partnership, and not the premises
mortgaged. To the extent of their debt the partners had
an interest in the mortgaged property, and no further.
They were interested to have the debt paid, not to procure
title to the mortgaged property. It can readily be seen thai
it would be profitable to get a real estate worth $50,000 foi
$34,000; but how an engagement to do a general produce
business could embrace that speculation is not so apparent,
Sage's legal relations to his copartners extended to the pro.
curement of the money due f-om Sweet. Theywere neithei
more nor less. But it is said that the copartners were de.
sirous, if possible, of obtaining the title to the mortgaged
premises, and that Sage undertook the negotiation for them.
and made an effective arrangement with Mitchell, which he
afterwards relinquished, and secured clandestinely an ad.
vantage to himself, to the injury of the other partners, and

should, therefore, be held to account for profits.

Dec. 1863.]

V. SAGE.
.WHEELER

Opinion of the court.

The evidence in this case, consisting mainly of letters
interchanged between Wheeler aud Sage, shows clearly
enough that a scheme was initiated to get the title to the
property, and that Sage was the active agent to perfect it,
but for some unexplained reason it failed. The evidence
does not prove that Sage made a contract with his copartners to perfect the title, but his engagement was to consumn.
mate a contract with Mitchell, if it could be done, by which
the object could be accomplished. All parties rested in the
belief that the negotiations with Mitchell would be successful; but from some motive not disclosed in the record, Sage
abandoned the idea of buying the property on joint account,
and bargained with Mitchell in his own behalf.
Generally, when a party obtains an advantage by fraud,
he is to be regarded as the trustee of the party defrauded,
and compelled to account. But if a pary seeks relief in
equity, he must be able to show that on his part there has
been honesty and fair dealing. If he has been engaged in
an illegal business and been cheated, equity will not help
him. "The Warehouse Case," as it is somewhere called in
the record, is anything but creditable to the parties concerned, and it is surprising that they should have been willing to give publicity to it through a legal proceeding. Sweet
was an insolvent debtor, owing Sage, Wheeler & Slocum
$24,000, secured on real estate in Milwaukee, which was
worth, when the security was given, $50,000, and over
$100,000 when the bill in this case was filed. In 1854 and
1855, when the scheme to perfect the title was in full progress, the property was appreciating in value. Judgments
had been entered against Sweet in favor of Mitchell to the
amount of $18,556.04, and in favor of various other creditors
for the sum of $59,597.73. Suit to foreclose was commenced,
and a vigorous defence interposed. Sweet denied that there
was as much due on the mortgage as was set forth in the bill,
and he claimed a share of the general business, and that he
was entitled to a credit of $12,000 for the rent of the warehouse for three years, during which time it had been occupied by Wheeler & Co. If this defence was successful, they
VOL. 1.

34

WHEELR V. SAE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

could not hope to "perfect the title." The property was
too valuable and the venture too great to lie idle and wait
the ordinary progress of a suit in chancery. The property
must be saved at all events and Sweet's peace bought.
Wheeler writes to Sage, May 5, 1855: "F. thinks if you
can buy Sweet's peace, that the creditors of Sweet could be
bluffed off, by getting a large decree and taking a proper
time to sue it, and the price of Sweet's peace to be contingent to the final adjustment of title." Again, under date
of May 18, he writes to Sage, "that if we do not make some
arrangement with S. to stop the defence and let us have the
decree at this term, we will have to take the money on the
mortgage, as the property has risen in value more than 100
per cent. within the last two years, and we want you and
Mr. Slocum to come out at once and do something."
"To perfect the title" and grasp the coveted prize, the
defence must be stopped, Sweet bought off, and the decree
enlarged beyond the just sum, s6 as to "bluff creditors."
The nearer the decree was to the actual value of the property, the less was the chance of being outbid. To pay
value for the property was not embraced in the scheme, but
if Sweet was silenced, there would be no difficulty of fixing
the decree at a sum which would tend to repress competition,
.and the decree was actually made for the sun4 of $33,000,
when the amount due was only $24,000. It is true that
Sage, in his answer, says that Mitchell had this done from
motives of his own. But the correspondence between
Wheeler and Sage abundantly proves, that to get a decree
for the nominal instead of the real amount due on the mortgage, was onQ of the main parts of their project.
The court was imposed on, and a combination formed, the
object and direct tendency of which was to secure the title
to the valuable real estate of an insolvent debtor, at the
expense and sacrifice of his creditors.
A proceeding like this is against good conscience and good
morals, and cannot receive the sanction of a court of equity.
The principle is too plain to need a citation of authorities to
confirm it. It is against the policy of the law to help either

Dec. 1863.]

BUnR v. DURYEE.
Statement of the case.

party in such controversies. The maxim, "in pari ddicto
motior est conditio defendentis," must prevail.
DECREE AFFIRMED WITH COSTS.

BURR V. DURYEE.
1. The practice of surrendering valid patents, and of granting reissues
thereon in cases where the original patent was neither inoperative nor
invalid, and where the specification was neither defective nor insufficient-the purpose being only to insert in the reissue expanded or
equivocal claims-is declared by the court to be a great abuse of the
privileges granted by the thirteenth section of the Patent Act of 1836,
authorizing a surrender and reissue in certain cases, and is pointedly
condemned.
2. As the Patent Act grants a monopoly to any one who'may have discovered or invented "any new and useful art, nachine, manufacture,
or composition of matter," and as a machine is a concrete thing, con
sisting of parts or of certain devices and combinations of devices, a
patent must be granted, in cases where the invention comes within the
category of a machine, for it, and not for a "mode of operation," nor
forA "principle," nor for an "idea," nor for any abstraction whatsoever: and this rule of law is not affected by the fact that the statute
requires the patentee to explain "the mode of operation" of his peculiar
machine which distinguishes it from all others.
8. The machine patented tor Seth Boyden, January 10, 1860, for an improvement in machinery for forming hat-bodies, is no infringement of any

of the patents granted to Henry A. Wells for the same thing. The
patents to Weljrso far as they related to an improvement in the process of makingi-hat-bodies, were void; William Ponsford having invented and patented the thing before him, and Wells having seen
Ponsford's invention.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the District of New
Jersey.
The complainant, Burr, as assignee of a patent granted
to Henry A. Wells for "an improvement in the machinery
for making hat-bodies, and in the process of their manufacture," filed a bill in the court below against Duryee and
others for infringement. The patent to Wells was granted
originally April 25, 1846. It was surrendered in 1856, and
reissued in two separate patents; one for the improved ma-

