XISWANGER V. SAUNDERS.

[Sup. 01.

Statement of the case.

NISWANGER V. SAUNDERS.
1. The State of Virginia issued, in 1784, a warrant for a soldier of the Con
tinental establishment, which was entered in her own borders south of
the Ohio. The land having been surveyed, a patent issued; everything
proceeding in ordinary form. But a part of the tract surveyed baying
been previously granted away by the State, never came into the soldier's possession or control, nor in any way benefited him-Held, in a
case where the new entry and survey were free from objection on their
face, that the warrants, which called for no specific tracts anywhere,
were not so far "satisfied" or "merged" as that a new and effective
entry and survey might not be afterwards made in another district open
to the soldier, to wit, in the Virginia Military District in Ohio, and
which would be protected against any subsequent location by the proviso of the act of March 2, 1807, providing that no location should be
made on any tracts of the district which had been previously surveyed.
I. Where a survey of land, under the military rights referred to, is void
for circumstances not appearing of record on its face, and which must
be proved by extrinsic evidence from different sources, a second enterer
is met by the statute, and cannot obtrude on the existing survey by a
second location. Saunders v. .Ni wanger (11 Ohio State, 298), overruled.
SAUNDERS filed a bill in chancery, in the State District
Court of Madison County, Ohio, to quiet the title to a tract

of land in that commonwealth, in what is called the Virginia
Military District, a region north and west of the Ohio, and
which, by the act of cession of that territory to the United
States and several acts of Congress, was reserved for the Virginia troops upon th Continental establishment of our Revolutionary war. The case was thus: In 1784, in the Book of
Entries, kept by the proper officer in the State of Virginia,
an entry, No. 70, was made in the name of David Ross & Co.,
on several military warrants, of one thousand acres of land
on the Ohio River, in that part of Virginia then called the
Green River Country, and now making Kentucky. The
entry was surveyed, the survey returned and recorded; and
on the 15th June, 1786, a patentfor one thousand acres of land
was issued by the Governor of Virginia to Ross accordingly;
the warrants themselves having apparently been returned into the
land office in Virginia. The warrants had described no specific
tracts, but were addressed to the surveyor, authorizing him

Dec. 1863,1

NISWANGER V. SAUNDERS.

Statement of the case.

"to survey and lay off, in one or more surveys," the quantity "set apart for officers and soldiers of the Commonwealth
of Virginia."
It was afterwards ascertained that, in laying off and sur-veying this one thousand acres, a portion of the land, to wit,
six hundred and forty acres of it, had been laid off within the
bounds of a well-known body of lands that had been previously granted to Richard Henderson & Co.; and this being
the older and better title, Ross lost, or rathernever acquiredso
much of his promised land; that is to say, six hundred and
forty acres. This fact being ascertained, a memorandum
was subsequently made in the Book of Entries, opposite to
entry No. 70,
"640 withdrawn, and entered in 197."

In 1790, Congress passed an act by which the soldiers of
the Virginia line, on the Continental establishment, were
authorized to obtain titles, on warrants issued to them, in
what is now the State of Ohio; that is to say, in that region
northwest of the Ohio River, between the rivers Little Miami
and Scioto; and, in 1810, an entry was made in the office of
the principal surveyor of the Virginia Military District in
Ohio of six hundred and forty acres (the exact amount of
Ross's patent covered by Henderson's prior grant), upon the
same warrantsupon which the patent issued in Virginia. On
this entry a survey was made in 1817, which was returned
and recorded; the Surveyor-General of the Virginia Military
District within the State of Ohio certifying that the survey
was founded on such and such warrants, which he specified
by number and warrantee name, and adding, "That said
warrants were entered originally in a thousand acre entry,
No. 70, in the State of Kentucky, &c., and patented to said
David Ross, by the State of Virginia, on the 15th of June,
1786; that said survey No. 70, i. e., six hundred and forty
acres of it, is withdrawn', by reason of its having been lost by
interference with Henderson's grant, and entered and surveyed as above; that said warrantswere never before satisfied;
and that said patent on which this survey is founded is in my
possession not satisfied." Thus things remained from 1816

NISWANGER V. SAUNDERS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

till 1837, when a certain Samuel Saunders, the complainant
below,'entered a portion, to wit, four hundred and twenty
eight acres of this same land, which had been surveyed to
Ross; the entry being surveyed on the day it was made. On
the 20th November, 1838, a patent was issued by the United
States to this Saunders, complainant as above stated, and on
the same day another patent to Niswanger, defendant below,
in whom had become vested the entry and survey of Ross.
This patent to Niswanger, following the surveyor's certificate
already mentioned, stated the number of each one of the
warrants; "the same warrants,"-it went on to recite"having been formerly located in the District of Kentucky,
and patented by the Commonwealth of Virginia to the said
David Ross, which has since been lost by interference with
a prior claim, to wit, Henderson's grant, and the said warrants withdrawn and relocated in the Virginia Military District
of Ohio, upon which the said survey is founded."
A principal defence relied on to the bill below, was that even
admitting some irregularity here, in the entry and survey of
Ross of 1810, &c., yet as the case was one of great equity,
and as an entry and survey had actually been made, the land
thus entered and surveyed for Ross was protected from any
subsequent entry and survey by others, in virtue of the
proviso of an act of Congress passed March 2d, 1807, that
Saunders's 6ntry was accordingly void. This proviso enacted, "that no locations within the above-mentioned tract
[the tract in Ohio] shall, after the passage of this act, be
made on tracts of land for which patents had previously
issued, or which had been previously surveyed, and any patent
which vay nevertheless be obtained for land located, contrary to
the provisions of this section, shall be considered as null and void."
The proviso originally for three years had been subsequently
extended.
The case being taken from the court where it originated
to the Supreme Court of Ohio, that court, in Saunders v. Nis.vanger,* following the reasoning and argument in a case
* 11 Ohio State, 298.

Dec. 1863.]

D

V. SAUNDERS.
ISWANGER
.

Statement of the case.

previously decided by it, !Nisewangerv. Wallace,* held that the
warrants on which the entry of 1810, in Ohio, was made had
been "merged and satisfied" in the previous patent for the
1000 acres in Virginia, and that this being so, they were nullities. The act of the surveyor, the court thought, did not
improve the, matter. It was a case of want of power in the
officer. His authority was limited to a particular subjectmatter. He .could dispose of lands only upon specified evidence, to wit, a military warrant. Here he had done it on a
"patent."- ,The return or renewal of a warrant once surrendered was within the power of the Virginia legislature alone.
The surveyor had no power to return or to renew, however
equitable a claim for such return or renewal might be. By
whom or by what authority the memorandum in the Virginia
Entry-book, " 640 withdrawn, and entered in 197," was made,
did not appear. It was not certified as the official act of any
officer in Virginia. If made by the surveyor in Ohio, the
question of his power was to be settled. Hadthe entry of 1810
and the subsequent survey been a case of "irregularity" only,
or even of "invalidity," the act of Congress of 1807 might
cure it; but it was the case of a proceeding wholly void, a
proceeding not based on a subsisting warrant at all, and
therefore past the healing power of the statute. The court
accordingly decreed that all that was done on Ross's warrants
in 1810 and afterwards was a nullity, and that the land
should go to Saunders or his heirs. On this part of the decision, which held the act of Congress of 1807 no protection,
error was taken to this court, under the 25th section of the
Judiciary Act of 1789,t which provides that a final judgment
or decree in any suit in the highest court of law or equity of
a State, where is drawn in question the construction of any
clause of a statute of the United States, and the decision is
against the title, right, &c., specially set up or claimed by
either 1 arty under such statute, may be re-examined, &c., in
this court.
The question in this court was, therefore,-as one question
* 16 Ohio, 557.

t 1 Stat. at Large, 85.

428

NISWANGER V. SAUNDERS.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in support of the survey.

had been in the Supreme Court of Ohio-whether the entry
of 1810 and the survey on it was or was not, under the facts
of this case and the operation of the proviso of the act of
1807, to be treated as a nullity.
Mr. Stanberry, by brief,for the appellant: If this case were to
be ruled by Ohio decisions and Ohio laws, we should have no
standing in this court. But the case arises on a statute of
the United States, and the decision below having been against
the right set up under it, this court has final authority in the
matter. The question rests on precedents here. In Jackson
v. C(ark,* an entry was set up by the defendants, on the land
in controversy, made July 19, 1796. The plaintifls attempted
to overcome this entry, by showing that two prior entries
had been made upon the same warrants, both of which- had
been patented. There was no evidence of any withdrawal
of the two prior entries, or of any surrender or cancellation
of the patents. So that the case presented the question of a
re-entry on a satisfied warrant, satisfied by prior entries carried into grant without withdrawal or cancellation. The
court sanctions the last entry, and holds, that however irregular or unauthorized it may have been, yet the land covered
by it was effectually withdrawn from entry by any other
locator. Our entry of 1810 stands upon a better foundation
than the entry there held valid, for it appears that the 640
acres were "withdrawn" from the Kentucky entry; and that
the 640 acres so withdrawn had been lost by interference
with a prior claim.
The court below decided the case against us, on the ground
that our entry of 1810 and the subsequent survey were nullities, and therefore not within the savings of the proviso.
They are nullities, say the court, because warrants under
which they were made, were satisfied by the original entry
of 1784, and merged in the patent granted on that entry.
Now, the. first answer to this is, that to the extent of the 640
acres in Henderson's Grant, there was no satisfaction, and
* 1 Peters. 628.

Dec. 1863.]

ISWANGER V. SAUNDERS.

Argument in support of the survey.

no merger. The matter may be plainly put thus: The State
of Virginia granted to certain soldiers 1000 acres on warrants,
to be satisfied by entry or location upon certain lands which
the State then owned on the southwest side of the Ohio
River. The warrants did not describe or grant any specific
tracts. It happened that in laying off and surveying this
1000 acres, 640 acres were laid off within the bounds of a wellknown tract of country called Henderson's Grant. Not an
acre of land within that grant belonged to Virginia in 1784.
It had been, prior to that date, granted by Virginia to Henderson. Besides this, by the very act of Virginia, passed in
May, 1799, authorizing entries under military warrants, it
was provided, that "no entry or location of land shall be
on the lands granted by law to Richard Henadmitted ....
derson & Company;" the lands first taken.
What then was the effect of the entry of this 640 acres
within Henderson's Grant? This court* has characterized
such an entry as void. The language of Mr. Justice Catron,
delivering the opinion in that case, is as follows: "If Clark's
entry was made, however, on lands reserved from location
by the act of 1799, then it is void, because the act did not
open the land-office for such purpose, nor extend to the excepted lands." In so far, then, as the entry of 1784 covered
land in Henderson's Grant, it did not satisfy the warrants.
It did not, quoad the land in Henderson's Grant, pay the debt
which Virginia had assumed to pay to her soldiers, for Vir-.
ginia could only pay her debt or bounty from her own lands,
and not out of lands belonging to others. Neither the entry,
the survey, nor the patent of this 640 acres gave to Ross any
title. The land not belonging to Virginia, could not be
touched by the warrants, nor be conveyed or granted by patent. The whole thing was void from beginning to end, and
the original right to the 640 acres remained untouched by
satisfaction or merger.
In this state of things, upon finding that 640 acres of the
entry was in Henderson's Grant, Ross was certainly entitled
* Porterfield v. Clark, 2 Howard, 76.

430

NSWANGER V. SAUNDERS.

[Sur. Ct.

Argument in support of the survey.

to relief in some form. The case was the case of a contract
by vendor to convey, and a surrender of the contract upon
a conveyance made and received in good faith, but covering
land not intended to be conveyed and belonging to another.
Under such a mistake, the contract not having been satisfied
or merged in the conveyance-certainly not in a court of
equity-our right was to have 640 acres of some other land
belonging to Virginia and subject to entry. How then were
we to be relieved? There was some course fit to be pursued, and what course more fit than the one that was pursued. Ross appeared before the principal surveyor of the
military district, and made proof to the satisfaction of that
officer, that 640 acres of the entry of 1784, fell within Henderson's qraut. Thereupon the surveyor allowed him to
withdraw or amend the entry of 1784 to the extent of the
640 acres, and to re-enter the same quantity on vacant lands
subject to entry in the State of Ohio. This was our entry
of 1810, which is called a nullity. It is too late to question
the verity of the memorandum that the former entry was
"withdrawn." We must take it as established, that the entry
of 1810 was made upon warrants never before satisfied.
It has been shown already by the case of Porterfield v.
Clark, that the entry on Henderson, which is the foundation
of all this satisfaction and merger, was itself a nullity. When
we begin with a void act, it is of no moment how much is
done in the way of mere confirmation. The cases in this
court go to that extent In Stoddardv. Ckanhers,* it is said:
"The issuing of a patent is a ministerial act which must be
performed according to law. A patent is utterly void and
inoperative which is issued for land that had been previously
patented to another individual." At the same time we may
concede that the patent was good as to the 360 acres outside
of Henderson; for a patent may be good in part and void
in part.t
2. The proviso in the act of 1807, was intended to have a
* 2 Howard, 284. See also on this point, Polk's Lessee v. Wendell, 9
Cranch, 99; Patterson v. Winn, 11 Wheaton, 380.
+ Palterson v. Jenks, 2 Peters, 216, 235

Dec. 1863.]

DI.SWANGER

V. SAUNDEIIS.

Argument in support of the survey.

curative operation; for no legislation was necessary to se
cure a valid entry and survey from a subsequent location.
It was, therefore, intended to protect and save such entries
and surveys as might otherwise be lost. But the range of
the proviso was matter of doubt, and whether it should protect all surveys, or only such as had some equitable foundation, was soon made a question. Five leading cases in this
court have settled all these doubts and fixed the construction. The case first in order of time, was Taylor.v. 21eyers.*
In that case the first survey had been withdrawn before the
second location was made. The court held that, after the
withdrawal, there was no survey upon which the proviso
could operate. Jackson v. Clarkt already noticed, was next
in time. In this case an entry and survey had been made
on warrants which had been satisfied by prior location,
still unwithdrawn and subsisting. .The court held that thb
survey was protected by the proviso, because, although the
warrants were satisfied by the first location, yet it was in the
power of the locator to withdraw them at any time from the
first location, and so make good the second location. Marshall, 0. J., says: "If it be conceded that this proviso was
not intended for the protection of surveys which were, in
themselves, absolutely void, it must be admitted that it was
intended to protect those which were defective, and which
might be avoided for irregularity. If this effect be denied
to the proviso, it becomes itself a nullity." Again, "A survey made by the proper officer, professing to be made on
real warrants, bearing on its face every mark of regularity
and validity, presented a barrier to the approach of the locator, which he was not permitted to pass, and which he was
not at liberty to examine." In our case, the entry and survey of 1810, were made by the proper officer, professedly
on real warrants, and with every mark of regularity. If the
entry and survey in Jackson v. Clark fell within the protection of the proviso, how can ours be excluded? Lindsey v.
.illert comes next. In this case, indeed, it was held that
7 Whaton, 23.

t 1 Peters, 636.

j 6 Id., 666.

I'ISWANGER V. SAUNDERS.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in support of the survey.

the proviso was not protection for a survey made under a
State line warrant. But our entry and survey were not made
under State line warrants, nor without semblance of authority; and Ross was guilty of no fraud and was in the lawfid
pursuit of a valid title. In Galloway v. Finley,* the next
case, the court gave a larger operation to the proviso than
had been stated in Lindsay v. Miller. Mr. Justice Catron,
delivering the opinion, says: "It is insisted for the appellant that the section had reference to imperfect and not void
titles. The legislature merely affirmed a principle not open
to question, if this be the true construction. Had an effective patent been issued, the government would not have had
any title remaining, and a second grant would have been
void of course: Something more, undoubtedly, was intended
than the protection of defective, yet valid, surveys and patents. This is not denied, but the argument insists only irregularities were intended to be covered ..... The statute is
general, including by name all grants, not distinguishing
between void and valid, and the plainest rules of propriety
and justice require that the courts should not introduce an
exception, the legislature having made none." The learned
judge then refers to Lindsay v. Miller, and adds, in reference
to that case: "But had the claimant been entitled to the satisfaction of his warrant in the military district, in common
with cthers for whom the government held as trustees, the
case might have been very different, even had the entry and
survey been invalid." MeArthur v. Dunt follows, and affixes the enlarged operation of the proviso as declared in
Galloway v. Finley, and says, an entry and survey in the
name of a deceased person, is within the scope of the proviso, notwithstanding such an entry and survey had been
repeatedly held to be void.
It was in reference to these decisions that the Supreme
Court of Ohio held, in Stubblefeld v. Boggs,j."that by the proviso to the act of 1807, re-enacted from time to time, it has
withheld from location all lands previously patented or sur12 Peters, 298.

t 7 Howard, 264.

2 Ohio Stato Reports, 219

Dec. 1863.]

TISWANGER V. SAUN DERS.
Argument against the survey.

veyed, whether the entries and surveys are valid or void,
and has declared that any patent that may be obtained in
virtue of a subsequent location of lands covered by a sub.
sisting survey or patent, shall be null and void. Hence, it
is of no consequence, whether the previous entry and survey have any validity or not. Admit that they are void,
and that consequently the title both legal and equitable remains in the government, yet the subsequent location is a
nullity, because Congress has so declared it."

2Mr. Ewing, by brief, contra: The patent recites that the
same warrants upon which Ross's entry of 1810 and survey
were made, had been previously located in the District of
Kentucky, and patented by the Commonwealth of Virginia
to said Ross, in trust, &c., and lost by interference with a
prior grant to Henderson, and withdrawn and relocated upon
the lauds in question. The fact, therefore, that the warrants
under which the entry and survey were made, had been previously located, surveyed, and patented in Kentucky, is not
open to controversy, and the question turns upon the legal
effect of the fact. This we claim was to render the warrants
functi officio, and the entry and survey in question made
under color of them, a nullity. But it is a part of the recital of the patent that the entry in Kentucky was withdrawn.
This recital is legally untrue, being legally impossible after
the entry was carried into grant, in such way 'asto restore
vitality to the warrants and admit of their being afterwards
located and patented in the Virginia military district, in
Ohio. The State of Virginia has ever retained and exercised
her sovereignty over the subject of entry, survey, and patent
of lands south of the Ohio, in satisfaction of warrants for
military services, and the warrants in question, according to
the laws of that State, were satisfied and withdrawn friom
the existing claims against her. Virginia has passed no law
re-iving and setting up warrants in cases where the land
patented is lost by interference, or from any other cause. It
has never been held, in the courts of that State, that the
holder could withdraw and relocate them elsewhere after .qurVOL 1.

28

434

NiswANGER V.SAUNDERS.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument against the survey.

vey and before patent. No one would contend that in that
State there could be a revival of the warrants after patent,
and a consequent relocation. In Kentucky it has been held
that there cannot be a withdrawal and relocation after survey, even before patent.* The language of Chief Justice
Marshall in one case,t is striking. He says, "The military
warrants to which these questions relate, originate in the
land law of Virginia. The question whether a warrant completely executed by survey can be withdrawn and so revived
by the withdrawal as to be located in another place, has
never, so far as I know, been decided in the courts of that
State. In Kentucky, where the same law governs, it has
been determined that a warrant once carried into survey,
with the consent of the owner, cannot be re-entered and sur
veyed in another place. In Ohio, it has not been understood
that the question has been decided."
Do the subsequent acts of Congress confer such right as is
claimed? The first that throws any light on this subject is
the recital in the first section of the act of August 10, 1790,1
which is as follows:
"And whereas, the agents for such of the troops of the State
of Virginia, who served on the Continental establishment in the
army of the United States during the late war, have reported to
the executive of said State, that there is not a sufficiency of
good land on the southeasterly side of the Ohio River, according
to the act of cession from the said State to the United States,
and within the limits assigned by the laws of said State, to
satisfy the troops for the bounty lands due them in conformity
to the said laws; to the intent, therefore, that the difference
between what has already been located for said troopg, on the
southeasterly side of said river, and the aggregateof what is due
to the whole of said troops, may be located on the northwesterly
side of said river, and between the Scioto and Little Miami
Rivers, and stipulated by the said State," &e.
Taylor v. Myers, 7 Wheaton, 23; Withers v. Tyler, 2 Marshall, 173;
Taylor v. Alexander, 8 Id., 501.
t Taylor v. Myers, 7 Wheaton, 24.
1 1 Stat. at Large, 1,3.

Dec.1863.]

NISWANGER V. SAUNDERS.
Argument against the survey.

This recital shows the intent to provide for warrants which
had not been located, not for warrants which had been located,
surveyed, and patented. It excludes warrants which have been
located, leaving the lands in Virginia and the laws of Virginia
to provide for and take care of those warrants when lost by
interference.
Next is the act of June 9, 1794,* which provides that the
person entitled to bounty lands in Ohio, "shall, on producing
the warrant, or a certified copy thereof, and a certficate under the
seal of the office where the said warrantsare legally kept, that the
same, or a part thereof, remains unsatisfied, and on producing
the survey, agreeably.to the laws of Virginia, for the tract
or tracts to which he or they may be entitled, as aforesaid,
to the Secretary of the Department of War, such officer and
soldier, his or their heirs or assigns, shall be entitled to and
receive a patent for the same," &c. This act excludes all
warrants which have been merged in patents.
This party did not produce the warrant. He could not
have done it, for the warrants were merged in a patent.
Neither did he produce a certified copy, and a certificate
under the seal of the office where the warrants were legally
kept, that the same, or a part thereof, remained unsatisfied.
Nor could he have done it. These warrants were legally
kept in the office of the Register of Lands in Virginia, and
were filed, we know, as satisfied warrants.
Next comes an act of May 13, 1800,t the first section of
which provides for the issuing of patents on surveys which
have been made "on warrants" issued from military service;
not on patents heretofore issued in Virginia on such warrants.
The idea carried through the other acts cited is maintained
in this. The patent of the United States issues on a survey
made upon an unsatisfied warrant. The second section provides for interfering claims within the district:
"Snc. 2. That in every case of interfering claims, under mili-

tary warrants, to lands within the territory so reserved by the
* 1 Stat. at Large, 394.

t 2 Ib., 80.

NISWANGER V. SAUNDERS.

[Sup. Ct

Argument against the survey.

State of 7irginia,when either party to such claims shall lose,
or be evicted from the land, every such party shall have a right,
and hereby is authorized, to withdraw his, her, or their warrant,
respectively, to the amount of said loss or eviction, and to enter,
survey, and patent the same on any vacant land within the bounds
aforesaid, and in the same manner as other warrants may be
entered, surveyed, and patented."
It is limited in its terms to interfering claims under military warrants to "lands within the territory so reserved;" not
to lands out of said territory. A conflict out of the territory
did not fall within the cognizance of the United States; they
had nothing to do with it; no jurisdiction over it; no means
of ascertaining it. It was a matter for the States in which it
occurred to settle in their own way. Consequently Congress
has made no provision for it, but has provided for lands
within the district for which they held the trust. The right
to relocate where the land has been lost by interference is of
statutory origin. This statute does not authorize the re-entry
where the interference occurred out of the district. Such reentry, therefore, is. not sustained, but, on the contrary, is
impliedlyforbidden by this statute. You may re-enter it if
your land is lost by interference in the district. You may not
if lost out of it.
Is it not thus shown that the warrants upon which the
Ross entry of 1810, and the subsequent survey and patent
were founded were, at the time the entry was made, functi
ojicio; satisfied in law and surrendered to the State of Virginia by a previous entry and survey fully carried into grant
in the Kentucky district? In legal effect, were they not as
effectually satisfied as they would have been if no interference
with Henderson's Grant had ever happened, and the lands
located in Kentucky remained in the possession and enjoy.
ment of the assignees of Ross?
If this is so, the remaining question is: Was this survey
of 1810, and the subsequent survey, predicated-as we assume it was--upon defunct and satisfied warrants, a survey
within the meaning of the proviso of the act of 1807, and

Dec. 1863.]

DISWANGER V. SAUNDERS.
Opinion of the court.

one in virtue of which the lands included in it were with.
drawn from the unappropriated residue, subject to entry in
the district, and the entry and survey of the same lands in
behalf of Saunders, rendered void? This question is so fully
considered, on both principle and authority, in the opinion
of the Supreme Court of the State of Ohio, in the present
case, reported among the decisions of 1860, that we deem it
unnecessary to do more than to request that reference be had
to the Reports.
Mr. Justice CATROK delivered the opinion of the court;
and after stating facts, and referring to Ross's entry of 1810,
proceeded thus:
This entry was surveyed and the survey recorded in 1817.
The entry and survey are regular, and free from objection
on their face; they recite the warrants, and the boundaries
of the survey are distinctly defined. It is not indicated on
the records of the surveyor that the warrants had been
merged in the first entry and the Virginia patents, nor that
the warrants were absent when the entry and survey were
made. In this condition Ross's title stood till 1837, when
Samuel Saunders entered four hundred and twenty-eight
acres of the land surveyed for Ross. Saunders's entry was
surveyed on the same day it was made. On the 20th day of
November, 1838, a patent was issued by the United States
to Saunders, and on the same day a patent issued to Niswanger, the assignee of Ross's entry and survey. This patent
recites the fact that a previous patent had been issuea by the
Commonwealth of Virginia, founded on warrants, in part,
that were withdrawn because of the loss by the interference
with Henderson's Grant in the Kentucky district.
A principal defence relied on by the respondents was, that
the act of Congress of 1807 withheld the land surveyed for
Ross from location by Saunders; that his entry was void, and
that the bill should be dismissed for this reason. But the
Spupreme Court of Ohio held that the act of 1807 was no protection to Ross's survey, and decreed that the land should be
conveyed to Saunders's heirs; and on this part of the case

NISWANGER V. SAUNDERS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

an appeal was prosecuted to this court, under the twentyfifth section of the Judiciary Act.
The record shows that the act of Congress was drawn in
question and relied on as a defence, and that the defence was
rejected by the State court.
The act of 1807, which we are called on to construe and
apply to the facts coming within our cognizance, gives the
further time of three years for malkng locations of lands in the
military district of Ohio, and five years for the return of surveys and warrants to the office of the War Department; and
then provides, "That no locations, as aforesaid, within the
above-mentioned tract, shall, after the passage of this act, be
made on tracts of land for which patents had previously
issued, or which had been previously surveyed; and any
patent which may, nevertheless, be obtained for land located
contrary to the provisions of this section, shall be considered
as null and void."
By subsequent acts of Congress, further time was given
to return surveys, so that Ross's survey is not open to objection for not having been made and recorded in time, nor was
any objection made in the court below on this ground; but
the decree proceeded on the assumption that the warrants on
which the entry and survey of Ross purported to be founded,
were merged in the previous patent of one thousand acres;
and that there were no valid warrants to sustain the survey,
which was made without authority, and void; and therefore
could claim no protection by virtue of the act of 1807.
Ross's entry and survey were made by the proper officer
and in the proper office, purporting to be made on real warrants, and bcaring on their face every mark of regularity.
When a survey is void for circumstances not appearing of
record on its face, and which must be proved by extrinsic
evidence from different sources, then a second enterer cannot be heard to adduce such proof, because he is met by the
statute, and not allowed to obtrude on the existing survey by
a second location. He can obtain no interest in the land to
give him a standing in court. The government can justly
say tn him, "You are a stranger anti must stand aside; this

Dec. 1863.]

UNITED STATES

v.

HALLECK.

Opinion of the court.

land is withdrawn from location; you cannot be heard." If
the grantee, Ross, lost part of his land by Henderson's grant,
and his warrants were merged by this misfortune, equity
required that Congress should declare his survey to be valid
by a curative act. This is the principle governing the decisions in the cases of Galloway v. _'nkey (12 Peters, 294), and
McArthur v. Dun (7 Howard, 264), where the entries, surveys, and patents had been made-to dead men, and were void
of course for want of a grantee; yet this court held that the
act of 1807 applied, and that a second entry on the first survey was void. In the case of Subblefield v. .Boggs (2 Ohio
State Reports, 216), the same doctrine is maintained.
We hold that the survey of Ross was protected, and that
Saunders's entry, survey, and patent were void, and order
that the judgment of the Supreme Court of Ohio be reversed,
and that the cause be remanded to that court, to be proceeded with in conformity to this opinion.
REMANDED ACCORDINGLY.

UNITED STATES V. HALLECK ET AL.
1. *Where a decree of the Board of Commissioners, created under the act
of March 8d, 1851, to ascertain and settle private land claims in the
State of California, confirming a claim to a tract of land under a Mexican grant, gives the boundaries of the tract to which the claim is confirmed, the survey of the tract made by the Surveyor-General of California must conform to the lines designated in the decree. There must
be a reasonable conformity between them, or the survey cannot be sustained.
2. "Whensuch decree describes the tract of land, to which the claim is confirmed, with precision, by giving a river on one side and running the "
other boundaries by courses and distances, a reference at the close of
the decree to the original title-papers for a more particular description
will not control the description given. The documents to which reference is thus made, can only be resorted to in order to explain any ambiguity in the language of the descriptions given; they cannot be resorted to in order to change the natural import of the language used,
when it is not affected by uncertainty.
8. When a decree gives the boundaries of the tract, to which the claim i
conflrn-ed, with precision, and has become final by stipulation of the

