Dec 1863.]

GAYLODS V. K ELSIIAW.

8!

Statement of the case.

GAYLORDS V. KELSHAW ET AL.
1. In a bill to set aside a conveyance as made without consideration and in
fraud of creditors, the alleged fraudulent grantor is a necessary defendant in the bill; and if being made defendant his citizenship is not set
forth on the record, the bill must be remanded or dismissed.
2. In such cases of remandment or dismissal, costs are allowed to a co-defendant, being the person charged with having received the fraudulent
conveyance.

THE Gaylords, appellants here, had filed their bill in chancery in the Circuit Court for the District of Indiana, against
the defendants Kelshaw and Butterworth, charging that they
had an unsatisfied judgment at law in one of the Indiana
courts against Kelshaw, and that some short time before the
judgment was recovered, Kelshaw conveyed to Butterworth
a valuable piece of real estate without any consideration; and
with an intent fraudulently to hinder and delay them, the said
Gaylords, in the collection of their debt The bill prayed
that the conveyance might be set aside, and the property sold
in satisfaction of their debt.
The complainants alleged themselves to be citizens of Ohio,
and .Butterworthto be a citizen of Indiana, but no allegationwas
made in any part of the record as to the citizenship of Kelshaw.
The record showed, however, that he was found within the
district, and had appeared and answered. The court below
dismissed the bill on merits.
Coming here, the case was argued by Mr. Henderson for
the complainants, who asked a reversal on merits, which he argued had been misunderstood below, and by Messrs. Ketcham
and Dunn, contra. The arguments need not be given, since
the court considered the question not a question of merits
but one
1. Whether, there being no allegation of Kelshaw's citizenship, jurisdiction existed under that clause of the Judiciary Act which gives the Federal courts jurisdiction in suits
between citizens of different States? and,
2. If jurisdiction did not exist, what was proper to be
VOL. .

6

GAYLORDS V. "[ELSHAW.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

done; that is to say, whether the decree was to be reversed, or
the bill dismissed, or the case remanded with directions, &c.?
Mr. Justice MIMLER, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court:
It is clear, that neither the court below, nor this court, has
jurisdiction of the case as between plaintiffs and Kelshaw.
But as the court might, under some circumstances, proceed
to adjudicate on the rights of the parties properly before it,
we must look into the case, so far as to see if it is one in which
relief may be decreed, as between plaintiffs and Butterworth,
without regard to Kelshaw.
Without referring to the numerous cases in this court and
others, on the necessity of having all the proper parties before
the court, in a suit in equity, and the circumstances under
which the court will proceed in some cases, without persons
who might well be made parties, it is sufficient to say that, in
the present case, we think Kelshaw is properly made a defendint to this suit. It is a debt which he owes which is sought
to be collected. It is his insolvency which is to be established,
and it is his fraudulent conduct that requires investigation.
If the conveyance to Butterworth shall be decreed to be set
aside, and the property conveyed to him, subjected to the
payment of plaintiffs' debt, it is proper that Kelshaw should
be bound by the decree; and to that end he ought to be a party.
It is not necessary to decide in this case, whether if Kelshaw were, in the language of the act of February 28,1839,
"not an inhabitant of, or found within the district where the
suit is brought," the court could proceed without him; for
the record shows that he was found within the district, and
served there with process, and has answered the bill. Nor
is it necessary, for the same reason, to inquire if the court
could dispense with him as a party under the 47th rule prescribed by this court for the courts of equity of the United
States. It is simply the case of a person made a defendant
by the bill, who is also a proper defendant, according to the
principles which govern courts of chancery as to parties, and
who has been served with process within the district and

Dec. 1863.]

MERCER COUNTY V. HACKET.
Statement of the case.

answered the bill; but whose citizenship is not made to appear
in such a manner that the court can take jurisdiction of the
case as to him.
Under these circumstances, the court is of opinion that
instead of a decree dismissing the bill on the merits, it should
have been dismissed without prejudice for want of jurisdiction. The case will be remanded to the court below with
leave to plaintiffs to amend their bill generally, and if they
shall fail to do this it shall be dismissed without prejudice.
Butterworth is entitled to his costs in this court.
DECREE ACCORDINGLY.

MERCER COUNTY V. RACKET.
1. Where a county issues its bonds payable to bearer, and solemnly pledges
the faith, credit and property of the county, under the authority of an
act of Assembly, referred to on the face of the bonds by date, for their
payment, and those bonds pass, bond fide, into the hands of holders for
value, the county is bound to pay them. It is no defence to the claim
of such a holder that the act of Assembly, referred to on the face of the
bonds, authorized the county to issue the bonds only and subject to certain -restrictions, limitations, and conditions," which have not been
formally complied with; nor that the bonds were sold at less than par,
when the act authorizing their issue and referred to by date on the face
of the instrument, declared that they should, "in no case," nor "under
any pretence," be so sold.
2. Corporation bonds payable to bearer, have, in this day, the qualities of
negotiable instruments. The corporate seal upon them does not change
the case.
8. Commissioners of Knox County v. AspinwaU (21 Howard, 539), and Woods
v. Lawrence County (1 Black, 386), affirmed. Diamond v. Lawrence County
(37 Pennsylvania State, 858), denied.

BY act of Assembly, passed in 1852, the legislature of Pennsylvania authorized the commissioners of Mercer County in
that State to subscribe to the stock of the Pittsburg and Erie
Railroad, which road, if built, would pass through their county
and benefit it. The act, however, contained this proviso:
"_Provided, that the subscription shall be made subject to thefollowing restrictions,limitations,and conditions, and in no other manne

