Dec. 1863.]

STURGIS v. CLOUGH.

269

Statement of the case.

the mortgage, where it is said that in no case shall the principal of any bond be considered due until twenty years after
its date; but it is quite obvious, we think, that the latter
clausb was inserted merely to exclude any possible inference
that a bondholder under any circumstances might bring an
action for the principal of a bond before it became due by
its terms. Such was, doubtless, the intention of the provision, but it does not in any manner conflict with the suggestion already made, that in case of sale on account of default
of payment of interest or principal, that all the bonds of the'
same class, and the interest accrued thereon, shall be entitled
to a pro rata dividend of the proceeds.
The decree of the Circuit Court is, therefore, reversed, with
costs, and the cause remanded for further proceedings, in
conformity with the opinion of this court.
DECREE ACCORDINGLY.

Mr. Justice DAVIS dissented.

STURGIS V. CLOUGH.
Although the language of a decree in admiralty may declare a decision which
might not, if it were construed by its exact words, be capable of being
supported, still, if it is obvious from subsequent parts of the record
that no error has been committed, the court will not reverse for this
circumstance.
ET. Gr. where a decree allowed a certain sum for repairs to a vessel, and
rejected (improperly, perhaps,) a claim for demurrage, the decree was
not reversed on that account; it appearing from a subsequent part of
the record that the judge had in fact considered the sum he allowed
for repairs eo nemine was too large for repairs simply, but was "about
just" for repairs and demurrage together.
ERRoR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of N'ew York, the case being thus:
The steamer Mabcy had injured the steamer Hector in

a collision, and had been libelled for damages.

It being

referred by the court to a commissioner to assess these
damages, the owners of the Hector claimed the whole cost of
the repairs, and also damages for fouiteen days' dem'urrage,

STURGIS V. CLOUGHE.

[Sup. ct

Statement of the case.

during which the repairs were getting done.
sioner awarded,
For repairs, being the fdl cost of them,
For demurrage, fourteen days, as claimed,

The commis.
$2162 80
1099 50
$3262 80

The Hector was an old vessel,-twenty years old, it was
testified,-her guards and deck, which were now repaired,
having been in a very decayed condition, and her whole hull,
comparatively, worthless. Still she was a navigating vessel,
and was engaged, at the time of the 6ollision, in towing
vessels to and from sea, about the harbor of New York.
Several witnesses were brought, who testified that thi-re was
a great demand for labor at that time, and who gaye their
opinions as to what the vessel might have made per day, if
engaged. But the owner did not exhibit, nor offer to exhibit, his books, to show what she actually had made previously; and some of the testimony was of a general, rather
than of a special kind. The court below, in deciding the
case, said as follows:
"We are not satisfied that the proofs bring the case upon
the question of damages within the rule laid down by the
Supreme Court, in Williamson v. Barrett.* A good deal of
the testimony was general, and turned upon mere opinion
as to the probability of employment in the towing business, and the amount of the earnings, if employed. This
kind of proof is too speculative and contingent to be the
foundation of any rule of damages: it is, at best, but conjecture. The true question within the case of Williamson v.
Barrettwas, what could the tug have been chartered for per
day in the business of towing, regard being had to the market
price in the city of New York? This would have brought
the question down to some degree of certainty, and afforded
ground for an intelligible allowance or not, of the loss which
the libellant had actually sustained by the delay during the
repairs. We shall, therefore, strike out the item for demurrage,
$1099 50, and confirm the decreefor $2162 80."
13 Howard, 101.

Dec. 186.3.]

STURGIS V. CLOUGH.

Opinion of the court.

Application was afterwards made to the court to reconsider this decision, which it did; and after advisement said as
follows:
"In passing upon the question of demurrage, and in refusing the taking of further testimony in respect to it, I was
influenced, as to the latter result, from a conviction that the
repairsallowed were greater thanjustified upon the proofs. These
have to be watched, as in cases of collision there is an opportunity, and not unfiequently a disposition, by the successful
party, to aggravate them. I should have been obliged, therefore, to set aside the whole report; and the withholding of
the reference in the demurrage satisfied me the result would
be about just between the palies on the whole case."
The refusal in the decree below to allow anything for the
detention of the vessel for the time she was detained, was
the error assigned by the libellant.
Ir. Jones, for the libellant, contended that the language of
the decree showed specifically that demurrage was rejected.
The court here had to do with nothing but the decree.
The course of thought passing through the judicial mind
was hardly to be considered against ajudicial record. There
was no doubt as to what the decree was, and the exact sum
awarded by the commissioner for damages was the exact sum
total of the final decree. Demurrage was exactly and specifically rejected; yet there was no doubt that there ought
to have been some demurrage. It is impossible to deny that
the libellant did sustain a loss by reason of the detention of
the vessel for the period of fourteen days. If the commissioner erred in awarding too large a sum for demurrage, or
if any error was committed by him in the rule which he
adopted in determining the amount on the evidence, or if
there Was any error in the manner in which such loss was
attempted to be proved, an oppportunity should have been
given tG correct the error.
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court:
From the manner in which this decree was drawn, it might

SEYBERT V. CITY OF PITTSBURG.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

be inferred that the court had refused to allow anything for
demurrage. But on reference to the record, it appears that
this sum was allowed by the judge, because he thought that
"the result would be about just between the parties on the
whole case." The sum reported by the commissioner has
not the effect of a verdict. The court may not concur in his
conclusions upon the facts reported, and may modify or
wholly reject it The court did not decide that demurrage
was not a proper item to be allowed in the computation of
damages, but that the amount of his decree was a just allowance for all damages sustained by libellamt. On reviewing
the evidence, we are satisfied that the sum allowed in the
decree was "just between the parties." The report of the
commissioner, allowing the whole bill for repairs, was not
just, because the repairs necessarily made were chargeable
not wholly to the collision, but to the age and previous condition of the boat. The charge for demurrage allowed by
him was not justified by the evidence, although there was
testimony to support it, such as can always be obtained
when friendly experts are called to give opinions. Besides,
the libellant withheld the best evidence of the profits made
by his boat, which would be found in his own books, showing his receipts and expenditures before the collision.
We believe the decree gave the libellant ample reparatiou
for all damages, as well for demurrage as repairs.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

SEYBERT V. CITY OF PITTSBURG.
An authority given by act of legislature to a city corporation to subscribe
for stock in a railway company, "as fully as any individual," authorizes
also the issue by the city of its negotiable bonds in payment of the stock.
The opinion of the Supreme Court of a State taking this view of an
act of Assembly passed by that State, approved.

TuE legislature of Pennsylvania incorporated a railway
,ompany, by act of Assembly, one section of which enacted
that any incorporated CITY should have authority to subscribe

