UNITED STATES

V. MORILLO.

[Sup. CL.

Syllabus.

calling the subscribing witness. The objection is answered
by the statute of California, which expressly provides for the
admission in evidence of conveyances of real property when
verified by certificates of acknowledgment or proof of the
execution by the grantors before certain officers.*
It appears that the subscribing witness to the deed introduced was present in court during the trial, and was examined
with reference to certain matters, but not touching the execution of the deed. The defendant thereupon claimed the
right to cross-examine him with reference to such execution.
The court held that the defendant must, for that purpose,
call the witness, and could not properly make the inquiry
upon the cross-examination. In this particular the ruling
of the court below was correct. The rule has been long
settled, that the cross-examination of a witness must be
limited to the matters stated in his direct examination. If
the adverse party desires to examine him as to other matters,
he must do so by calling the witness to the stand in the subsequent progress of the cause.t
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

UNITED STATES V. MORILLO.
1. When the government does not claim land in California as public land,
this court will not entertain jurisdiction of an appeal by the United.
States from a District Court there under the act of 8d March, 1851, for
the settlement of private land claims: it has no jurisdiction under that
act-nor has the District Court-when the controversy is between individuals wholly.
2. In an appeal by the United States from a decree of one of tnose courts,
where the proceeding below was to have a land title confirmed under
this act of March 8, 1851, an assertion by the counsel of the United
States that the controversy is between individuals wholly, and that the
United States have no interest in the case, is sufficient to satisfy the
court of that-fact so far as respects the United States itself. But it is
* Act of California concerning conveyances, of April 16, 1850, H 4 and 29.

t Philadelphia and Trenton Railroad v. Stimpson, 14 Peters, 461; 1
Greenleaf on Evidence, 445.

Dec. 1863.]

UNITED STATES V. MORILLO.

707

Statement of the case.
not sufficient, the record itself not showing the fact, to satisfy the court
as respects the opposing party. Hence, although, if this court have no
jurisdiction because the controversy is between private individuals
wholly, the court below had none either, yet vhere the fact of such
individual interest in the suit rests wholly on the admission of the
United States here, and the opposing party is not represented here by
counsel, this court will not reverse the decree below, but will only dismiss the case.
APPEAL by the United States from the decree of the District Court for the Southern District of California, confirming a claim to land under the act of 3d March, 1851, entitled
"An act to ascertain and settle the private land claims in
the State of California."* The act having, by a previous
section, enacted that "each and every perison" claiming lands
in California under title derived from the Spanish or Mexican goverhment, should present them with evidence to a
Board of Commissioners appointed by the act, who should
examine the same "1upon such evidence, and upon the evidence produced by the United States," and should decide on
it, in its 13th and 15th sections provides as follows:
"SE cTION

13. All lands, the claims to which have been finally

rejected by the commissioners, &c., or which shall be finally
decided to be invalid by the District or Supreme Court; and all
lands, the clalms to which shall not have been presented to the
said commissioners within two years after the date of this act,
shall be deemed, held*and considered as part of the public domain of the United States. Provided, &c.
"SE CTION 15. The final decrees rendered by the said commissioners, or by the District or Supreme Court of the United States,
or any patent to be issued under this act, shall be conclusive
between the United States and the said claimants only, and shall
not affect the interests of third persons."
It was part of the case in this court, made so by the assertion of the United States, that the land in contrc versy had been
confirmed to a person other than the claimant appellee, to
wit, had been confirmed to one Raamon Yorba. But thisfact
did not appear in the record; nor was there evidence of any
* 9 Stat. at Large, 631.

UNITED

STATES V. MORILLO.

[Sup. at

Argument in favor of reversal.

kind as to the date of this alleged decree; that is to say,
whether it was prior or subsequent to the one from which
the present appeal was taken. In this state of facts, the question upon this assertion by the Attorney-General of the
United States, or his deputy, that the government had no
further interest in the case, was, what form of order or decree should be made in this court; whether a decree of reversal, with direction to the court below to dismiss as wanting
jurisdiction, or a decree here of dismissal simply?
Messrs. Bates, A. G., and Wills, for the United States: The
act of March 3,1851, gives jurisdiction to the District Courts
of California and to this court on appeal, only in controversies between the government and individuals. This is to be
inferred from the sections of the act as quoted. The purpose of the act was to provide the means of separating the
national domain from the possessions of private individuals.
If the controversy is between private individuals only, neither this court nor the court below has jurisdiction. Now the
admission by the government that it has no interest in the
land, is necessarily sufficient to satisfy the court of that fact;
for it is an admission against its own interest. This court
cannot entertain jurisdiction in the face of an acknowledgment by the United States that the contest is whtolly between
private claimants. But if this court has no jurisdiction,
neither had the court below; and, whhtever is sufficient to
induce this court to decline jurisdiction, must of course be
sufficient to induce it to reverse. If it declines jurisdiction,
it does so only because satisfied that the claim is between
private parties; and, when satisfied of that, it is satisfied also
that the court below had no jurisdiction. Satisfied of that
second fact it necessarily reverses. It matters not how it
may be satisfied; whether by the record, or by admission
of the party made here. If satisfied in any way, it is enough.
The court cannot decline cognizance at all therefore for itself,
on the ground alleged, and not go so far as to reverse the
decree below with directions to dismiss.
The claimant, Jforillo, was not represented here, either by counsel or by brief.

Dec. 1863.]

UNITED STATES V. MORILLO.
Opinion of the court.

Mr. Justice MMILER delivered the opinion of the court.
On the part of the appellant the point principally relied
on is, that this court has no jurisdiction of the case, and the
ground on which this point is based is the fact that the Dis.
trict Court has already confirmed the claim of another party,
which covers the land now claimed by the appellees in this
case. It is, therefore, say the counsel, a mere contest between individuals as to who is the real owner of the land,
in which the government has no interest, and its decision is
not necessary to separate the lands of the United States from
those held by private parties.
We concur entirely with counsel, both in the reasoning
and in the conclusion above stated; and as to the United
States, who by her counsel asserts it, we assume that the fact
on which the reasoning rests is correctly stated, to wit, that
the land has been confirmed to another person.
The act of March 3, 1851, under which these proceedings
were had, contemplated primarily nothing more than the
separation of the lands which were owned by individuals
from the public domain. This is clearly expressed in the
13th section of that act. The 15th section declares that the
final decrees rendered in these proceedings, and the patents
issued under them, shall be conclusive between the United
States and said claimants only, and shall not affect the interest
of third parties.
We therefore agree with counsel for the appellant thA
when the government no longer claims that the land is public
land, the right of the United States to contest the case further
ceases, and this court will not entertain jurisdiction to determine to which of two private claimants it may belong. It
results from these considerations that the appeal in this case

should be dismissed.
It is urged against this action of the court, that the same
fact which shows that this court has no jurisdiction of the
appeal, shows that the District Court was also without jurisdiction, and that its decree should be reversed, with instructions to dismiss the case.
The reply to this is, that it nowhere appears in the record

UNITED STATES V. ESTUDILLO.

[Sup. Ot

Syllabus.

of this case that the land claimed by appellees has been confirmed to any other person. The appellees are not represented here by counsel, to affirm or deny that fact stated by
the counsel of the government. When the appellant ap-

pears by counsel, and makes the point that this court has no
jurisdiction of the case, and supports that argument by the
statement of a fact which sustains the point, we are certainly
at liberty to assume that fact to be true as against the appellant, and dismiss his appeal. But when he asks us to go a
step further, and adjudicate on the rights of the appellee, by
reversing a decree in his favor, we must have some other
evidence of that fact than the statement of the appellant's
counsel.
But conceding it to be true for all purposes that the land
in question has been confirmed by a decree of the District
Court to another party, there is nothing to show whether
that decree is prior or subsequent in date to the one now
before us; or which claim was first presented to the Board
of Commissioners for its action. We might, therefore, be
doing the present claimant great injustice in reversing his
decree and leaving another claim for the same land to stand
aflirmed in favor of some other person, while we can by no
possibility injure the United States by dismissing an appeal
in a case where it is evident that the government has no
interest, and which can only be protract.ing the litigation for
the benefit of one individual in his contest with another.
APPEAL DISMISSED.

UNIED STATES V. ESTUDILLO.
An appeal of a case originating below under the statute of June 14, 1860,
relating to surveys of Mexican grants in California, and in which the
appellants appear on the record as The United States, simply (no intervenors being named), remains within the control of the attorneygeneral; and a dismissal of the case under the 29th rule of this court
is not subject to be vacated on the application of parties whose names
do not actually appear in the record as having an interest in the case,
even although it is obvious that below there were some private owners

