DUNHAM V. RAILWAY COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

And as to the President's action in such matters, and those
acting in them under his authority, we refer to the opinions
expressed by this court, in the cases of lJartinv. l7Iott,* and
Dynes v. Hoover.t
For the reasons given, our judgment is, that the writ of
certiorari prayed for to revise and review the proceedings of
the military commission, by which Clement L. Vallandigham
was tried, sentenced, and imprisoned, must be denied, and
so do we order accordingly.
CERTIORARI REFUSED.

NELSON, J., GRIER, J., and FIELD, J., concurred in
the result of this opinion. MILLER, J., was not present
at the argument, and took no part.

DUNHAM V. THE CINCINNATI, PERU, &c., RAILWAY COMPANY.
1. A mortgage byarailway company of their "road, built and to be built,"the company, at the date of their mortgage, having built a part of their
road, but not built the residue,-has precedence, even as regards the
unbuilt part of the claim of a contractor who, in the inability of the
company to finish the road, had himself finished it under an agreement
that he should retain possession -of the road and apply its earnings to
the liquidation of the debt due him, and who had never surrendered
possession of the road to the company. DAvis, J., dissenting.
2. Where a mortgage given by a railway company to secure a number of
bonds provides that in case of a sale or other proceedings to coerce payment of interestor principal,all bonds and the interest accrued shall be
a lien in common therewith, and the interest accrued thereon shall be
equally due and payable, and entitled to a pro rata dividend of the proceeds of sale,-with this superadded declaration, however, to wit, "but
in no case shall the principalof any bond be considered as due until twenty
years from the date thereof" (this being the term which the bonds on
their faces had to run)-it is error, after a sale, under the mortgage,
within the twenty years, to give precedence to the overdue interest
warrants. The superadded clause will be interpreted only as excluding
an inference that a bondholder might bring an action for the princip'al
before it became due by its terms.

THIS was an appeal from a decree of the Circuit Court of
the United States for the District of Indiana, made in a case
12 V heaton, pp. 28 to 35, inclusive.

t 20 Howard, 65.

Dec. 1863.]

DUNHAM V. PRAILWAY COMPANY.

255

Statement of the case.

in which Dunham was complainant, and the Cincinnati,
Peru, and Chicago Railway Company, with one Walker, a
builder of the road, and Ludlow, his assignee, under the
insolvent laws of the State, were defendants. The facts
were these:
The appellant, Dunham, on the 18th of April, 1860, filed
his bill in the court below to foreclose a mortgage given to
him as trustee by the said railway company, to secure the
payment of certain bonds therein described. The respondent corporation was organized under a general law of the
State of Indiana, for the incorporation of railroad companies,* one section of which provides that "such company
may from time to time borrow such sums of money as they
may deem necessary for completing or operating their railroad, and issue and dispose of their bonds, for any amount so
borrowed, for such sums and such rate of interest as is
allowed by the laws of the State where such contract is
made, and mortgage their corporate property and franchises to
secure the payment of any debt contracted by s-och company."
They were authorized by their charter to construct a railroad from Laporte, in that State, by the way of Plymouth,
&c., to Marion in the same State. The whole length of the
railroad, as contemplated, was about ninety-seven miles, and
for the purpose of constructing, completing, and equipping
the entire route, the directors resolved to raise money by
loans to an amount not exceeding $1,000,000, and to issue
thebonds of the company, not exceeding one thousand in
number, for the sum of $1000 each, payable in twenty years
from date, and bearing interest not exceeding seven per
cent. per annum. They also decided to construct the road
by sections, and, with that view, divided the route into four
parts. designated and numbered as sections one, two, three,
and four. Section one extended from Laporte to Plymouth,
a distance of about twenty-eight and a half miles: this was
the only one that was built, and is the one which constitutes
the subject-matter of the controversy in this suit. Intending
* &ct of M.v 11, 1852,

19; 2 Revised Code, 409.

256

DuNEAM v. RAILWAY COMPANY.

[Sup. Ci.

Statement of the case.

to construct the road in sections, they apportioncd the loan
and the bonds to be issued upon the several sections. Three
hundred thousand dollars were apportioned to the first seetion, and the residue to the three other sections. Having
arranged these preliminaries, they resolved to mortgage the
road to secure the payment of the interest accruing on the bonds,
andfor the ultimate discharge of the principal. The complainant was appointed trustee for the purpose of such a conveyance, and on the 20th of February, 1855, a mortgage was
made to him as such trustee, his successors and assigns, of
the following property of the company, that is to say, "their
road built, and to be built," "including the rigit of way, and
the land occupied thereby, together with the superstructures and
tracks thereon, and all bridges, viaducts, culverts, fences, depot
grounds and buildings thereon, and all other appurtenances belonging thereto, and all franchises, rights, and privileges of the company to the same." Pursuant to the previous determination
of the company, the proper officers thereof, on the 1st of
March following, issued the three hundred bonds apportioned to the first section of the road, and which had been
duly set apart for its construction and equipment. They
were the only bonds ever issued under the first mortgag6.
The allegation of the bill of complaint was that the interest
warrants had not been paid, and that the railway company
had failed to furnish any means whatever for that purpose
as stipulated between the parties. The bill also alleged that
the company, on the 26th ofFebruary, 1855, made to the complainant, as such trustee, another mortgage of their railroad,
to secure the payment of bonds proposed by them to be
issued for another sum, not exceeding $1,000,000, for the
same purpose. An apportionment of that sum also was
made upon the different sections of the road in the same
manner as was done under the first mortgage, but none of
the bonds were issued, except those apportioned to the first
section. The railway company did not appear, and as to them
the complainant took a decree pro confesso. The defendants,
Walker and Ludlow, appeared and filed separate answers.
The defence of Walker was, that the company being wholly

Dec. 1863.]

Du~nAM v. RAILWAY COMPANY.

257

Statement of the case.

unable to complete the road, he, the respondent, on the 28th of November, 1855, entered into an agreement with them to complete
the first section andfurnish all the materials, and that the company agreed to pay him the full value of the materials so
furnished, and a reasonable compensation for his services;
that, as part of the arrangement,the company engaged to deliver to him, from time to time, ninety-nine of the first mortgage bonds, and two hundred and ninety-nine of the second
mortgage bonds, at $400 for each $1000 bond, and that he,
the contractor, was to have and keep possession and control of
that section of the road and its earningsuntil the company should
make full payment to him of what they should owe him under that
agreement. The answer then averred that he expended for
materials and labor in completing the contract, $302,000,
and that the company, on the 8th of April, 1858, confessed
a judgment in his favor for the balance due him under the
contract, amounting to $12 9 ,4 9 1 j2, which, as he insisted,
was entitled to a preference in payment from the earnings and
income of the road, and from the proceeds of the sale of the
same over thefirst mortgage bonds.
The stipulations of the contract purported to give to the
contractor the absolute control of the first section of the road
and its earnings, from its opening until the compeny should
iakefull payment for its construction, and the contractor was
to disburse its earnings,1st. To pay the expenses of operating the road.
2d. To reimburse himself for all the money which he miqht
advance.
8d. To pay the interest on the first and second mortgage bonds,
and if there was any surplus, to apply the same to the other
objects therein specified.
The answer of the other respondent, Ludlow, set up the
same defence.
The mortgage of the complainafits had been duly registered, March 9, 1855, more than eight months before the
. )mtractwas made with Walker and Ludlow.
The court below rendered a decree directing that.the road
should be sold, and that the proceeds, after the payment of
VOL. I

17

DUNHAM

v.

RAILWAY CoiPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in support of the lien.

costs, should be paid over to Ludlow, as assigneeof the contractor,
to the exclusion of the trustee, and in preference to the viortgage on which the suit was founded.
The decree also ordered that coupons past due on the
bonds should take precedence over the principal of the
bonds; the ground of the decree being a clause in the *mortgage held by the complainant as trustee, in these words:
"In case of default in the payment of interest or principal
of any bonds, and a sale or other proceedings to coerce the
same, all bonds which shall then be a lien in common therewith, and the interest accrued thereon, shall be considered,
and shall in fact be equally due and payable, and entitled to
a pro rata dividend of the proceeds of said sale or other
proceedings; but in no case shall the principal of any bond be
considereddue until twenty yearsfrom the date thereof."
From this decree, Dunham, a creditor under the mortgagee, appealed, and now sought to reverse the decree.
Messrs. Major and Black for Walker and Ludlow:
1. The question is, whether Walker-having made the
road by the expenditure of his own means, without which
expenditure the road was worthless to the company and the
bondholders, and made it under a written agreement with
the company that he should retain possession of the road,
and apply its earnings to the liquidation of the debt due him,
until such debt was paid; and having never surrendered
possession to the company-holds a prior lien upon it, and
is entitled in equity to a priority in the distribution of the
proceeds on sale of it? We think that he is.
I. Railroad mortgages made to secure the payment of
bonds which are sold for the purpose of obtaining means
with which to construct the road, are different from mortgages on land, to secure money borrowed. In the latter the
securitj is in esse, and belongs to the party making the mortgage; in the former, the road, which is the only security, is
not in existence and does not belong to the mortgagor, but on
the faith that the company will in future construct it, the
bonds are purchased.

Dec. 1868.]

DUNHAM V. RAILWAY COMPANY.

259

Argument in support of the lien.

There is no evidence that this company owned the soil.
No deed is shown. The presumption is against ownership.
It is contrary to the policy of the law to allow railroad companies to acquire any greater interest in the land than a
right of way.* A grant of a right of way confers no right
to the soil. It is but an incorporeal hereditament; a right
issuing out of the soil, not a right to or in it. It has been
decided in Louisiana,t that a railway is not an "immovable,"
by nature or destination, if the soil over which it passes
belongs to another, and that the rails do not become immovable by being laid down. In an article given to one
of our periodicals by Mr. Theron Metcalf, always one of the
best lawyers, as now one of the eminent judges of our country, he says,j in reference to that case, "As the company has
no right of soil to the land embraced by the railroad, but a
mere easement, a mortgage by the company cannot pass
the right of soil, and consequently timber and iron, afterwards acquired and laid down upon theroad, cannot be considered as passing by the mortgage merely because of their
being fixed to the soil."
It is a general rule that nothing can be mortgaged that is
not in esse, and that does not at the time of making the
mortgage belong to the mortgagor.§
But equity, it is said, will attach the lien of the mortgage
to the subsequent superstructure, when by the terms of the
mortgage it is stipulated that the mortgage shall cover it.
Still, this result will not attach until the company shall have
acquired title to such superstructure; and this title the company cannot acquire so long as the person who made the
superstructure keeps possession thereof; unless the company
pays to that person the amount due for the work. Especially
is this true where, by agreement between the company and
such person, he is to keep possesssion of the road and its
* Redfield, 124,'125.
t The State v. The Mexican Gulf R. R., 3 Robinson, 514.
: 4 American Law Magazine, Jan., 1845, p. 278.
Seymour r. C. & N. R. R., 25 Barbour, 801; Pierce v. Emery and cases
cited 82 New :Iampshire, 505.

DUNHAM V. RAILWAY COMPAI-Y.

[S,.J). Ct

Argument in support of the lien.

earnings until the company should pay him all it might owe
him. Now, decided cases show that the company could not
acquire any right to the road until Walker was first paid all
that was owing to him by the company. In a Georgia case,
Collins v. The Central Bank,* certain contractors had constructed a part of the railroad, and the company made them
a mortgage thereon to secure to them payment for the work.
A bank, which was the holder of bills issued by the company
to contractors who built the road, claimed a priority in the
proceeds of the road, under a law which authorized the issue
of those bills by the company, and created the same a lien
on the road built by the company. It was held that the contractors had a prior lien on that part of the road which they
had built. The court says:
"Nor was the company entitled to the part of the road made
by the contractors, until payment was made therefor. It was
competent for the company to stipulate, by express agreement,
that the contractors should have a lien on that part of the
road which they contracted to build, to the extent of the worlk
furnished, until payment was made by the company. This lien,
until payment for the work and materials furnished, does not
at all conflict with the lien created by the statute on that part
of the road built by the company; nor would the company have
been entitled to that portion of the road built by the contractors
above Griffin until payment made to them therefor. Certainly
the billholders, who are the creditors of the company, cannot be
considered as standing, at least in a court of equity, in a better
condition than the company under whom they claim. If the
company could not appropriate the road built by the contractors,
to their own use and benefit, until payment for the work and
materials, on what principle is it, the billholders, claiming under
and through the company, can justly claim in a court of equity
to have exclusively appropriated to their benefit the proceeds
of the sale of such portion of the road and materials ?"t
Thatcher, Burt J' Co. v. Coe,t in the Federal court for Ohio,
* 1 Kelly, 457.
t See Redficld, 574, part 8, for the principle which hr deduces from the
decision.
I MS.report, in possession of a son of McLean, J.

Dec. 1863.]

DUNHAM v. RAiLwAY CoMPANY.

261

Arument in support of the lien.

is to the same effect. T;, B. & Co. built a bridge for a railroad company upon piers and abutments made by the com-

pany, without any agreement whatsoever as to lien or security of
any kind. When the bridge was completed, T., B. & Co.,
fearing that the company would not be able to pay them the
balance due, refused to give up possession of the bridge to
the company until they were paid the balance due them, or
a mortgage made to them on the bridge to secure the payment. The company made the mortgage to T., B. & Co.,
who thereupon gave up the bridge to the company. Coe,
the trustee of the first mortgage bondholders, claimed the
proceeds of the road in preference to the claims of T., B. &
Co. under that mortgage. McLean, J., held that T., B. &
Co. were entitled to a priority. In his opinion in the case,
that judge, replying to an objection that the company had
no power to give the mortgage, says:
"The company had the power to make the contract for the
bridge on such terms as they believed would best advance the
interest of all concerned. This discretion was necessarily exercised by the company in the entire construction and equipment
of the road. It was a trust vested in them, and could be exercised by no other power. But it is said the company could do
no act to the prejudice of the bondholders represented by the
complainant. This assumes that the act done impairs the security of the bondholders. This is not true, either in fact or in
law.
"The contractors were not bound to perform the work and
deliver it to the railroad company, unless the stipulated compensation was paid'or secured to be paid. This they have a right
to demand, under the circumstances, and a sense of justice and
law induced the railroad company to give the security required.
This was not under the mechanic's law, but the common law,
which authorizes every man to retain possession of his own
work, where no contract has otherwise provided, until he is paid
for it, or the payment secured.
"The deed of trust secured to the holders the right of way and
the road when constructed with all its equipments. But the
equipments, the iron, and the structure of the road, had to be
procured by the company with the means under their control, as

DUNHAM v. RAILWAY COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in support of the lien.

the best interests of the road required. If its funds were exhausted, and the company could not procure labor or materials
on credit, must the enterprise be abandoned? And if these
things could not be procured but by giving a pledge of the work
and materials, so as to put the road in operation and enable it
to pay an income, has not the company the power to do it?
They take nothing from the bondholders, but on the contrary
greatly benefit them by adding to the value and productiveness
of the road."
McLean, J., further held that T., B. & Co., by keeping the
bridge in their possession, preserved a lien on it for their
compensation.
"The lien of the bondholders, in no legal or equitable sense,
can be considered as paramount to that of the contractors. It
was the contractor's labor and money which constructed the
things mortgaged, and not the means of the 6ompany, so far as
regards the balance due." . . . . "In this view, so long as the
bridges remained in the possession of the contractors, the lien
of the bondholders did not attach. But this right of possession

by the contractors was surrendered for the special mortgage
given ......
Had the contractors delivered the possession of
the bridge to the company without a mortgat~c, the lien of the
bondholders would have attached."

xi. But suppose the company had the legal title to the land.
Tbi would not defeat the lien. A chattel attached to land
with the consent of the ow icr of the land, will remain the
property of the person placing it there, as in the erection of
houses on another's land. So of the erection of a fence,
though under an agreement by parol: held valid against a
purchaser of the land, though without notice.* So of a papermaking machine.t So of salt kettles.T So of iron rails laid
in the track, under an agreement it should not become the
property of the company until paid for: held, that the iron
was not covered by a subsequent mortgage.§
* Mott v. Palmer, I Comstock, 564.

t Godard v. Gould, 14 Barbour, 662.
: Ford v. Cobb, 20 New York, 344.
Haven v. Emery, 33 New Hampshire. 66.

Dec. 1863.]

DunAx

v. RAILWAY

COmPANY.

263

Argument in support of the mortgage.

It is said that the assent of the trustee or bondholders to
Walker's contract with the company was necessary to make
ii valid against them. The answer is, that if such assent
was necessaij, the court will presume it, under the circumstances presented in the case. The construction of the road
was the primary object of the organization of the company.
It was the purpose for which the bonds were sold, and the
agreement was made with Walker. The bondholders and
stockholders were the only persons personally interested in
making the road. The road being the only security which
the bondholders had for the payment of the bonds, they were
more deeply interested in the construction than the stock-

holders. The right of way or right to the land, afforded
them no security. The construction of the road was under
the control and management of the company, who alone had
to provide the means for its construction, and who alone, in
its construction, represented the interest of every one concerned. The company was the agent or minister of the
trustee, bondholders and stockholders, in the construction;
and it was their duty to employ all available resources over
which they were competent to exercise control, to prosecute
it to completion. This authority may fairly be held to extend
to everything which was necessary to the further construction of the road, and which was in no sense prejudicial to
the interest of the bondholders.
2. The decree gives priority to overdue coupons. This is
right. A clause of the mortgage provides that in "no case
shall the principal of any bond be considered due until
twenty years after its date."
Mr. Otto, who also fikd a brieffor M3r. litesi contra:
1. The mortgage is, in substance and effect, a conveyance
of the road as an entire thing. Subsequently acquired property annexed thereto became, by such accession, an inseparable part of the original subject of the mortgage.*
* Pierce v. Emery, 32 New Hampshire, 484; Pettingill v. Evans, 5 Id.,
54; Pennock v. Coe, 23 Howard, 117.

DUNHAM V. RAILWAY COMPANY.

[Sup.

t

Argument in support of the mortgage.

Repeated adjudications have affirmed, on general principles, the validity of such a mortgage by a railroad company
against subsequent creditors and incumbrancers with notice.
Pennock v. Coe,* in this court, may be said to be in point.
The mortgage was executed in pursuance of a power conferred upon the company, and its validity is not drawn in
question by the pleadings.
It is not alleged that the complainant consented to the arrangement in regard to the road for which the contract with
Walker provided. That contract was later in date than the
mortgage. Walker had full notice of the latter. His title
to the possession of the mortgaged property or to the proceeds of the sale thereof cannot, therefore, be enforced so as
to displace the prior and paramount lien of the mortgage, or
to impair or postpone any of the rights or equities created
thereby or arising therefrom.
Counsel on the other side insist that the consent of the
complainant shofild be presumed, if such consent be necessary to the maintenance of Walker's contract. But the
court will not presume that a party, whose rights were secured by a valid mortgage duly recorded, consented to waive
them, nor that a fact existed, where there is no averment
thereof in the record. If Walker relied upon such consent,
he should have alleged and proved it.
The doctrine that fixtures attached to the soil at the time
of the execution of a mortgage or subsequently acquired,
will pass by it, is not controverted on the other side, but its
applicability to this case is denied upon the assumption that
the company had but a right of way and no title to I he land.
That assumption, if supported by the facts, would not affect
the complainant's rights, but the mortgage does convey, in
express terms, "their road built and to be built in the State
of Indiana, including the right of way, and the land occupied
thereby, together, &c., &c." The court will presume thatthe
company had the property which it mortgaged, and Walker's
answer does not set up the company's non-ownership of the
land, in avoidance of the mortgage.
* 23 Howard, 117.

Dec. 18CTO]

DUNHAM

v. RAiLwAY COmPANY.

265

Opinion of the court.

Neither of the two cases cited on the other side are authorities in this court. We think that the case fiom Georgia
went-in a large degree onthe construction of a local statute.
The one decided by McLean, J., is more in point; but it is
a circuit case, and of course not binding here. As the case
was never published by that judge during his lifetime, being
now brought out from his MSS., it would seem that he was
not absolutely sure, on reflection, how correctly he had decided it. Pennock v. Coe, as we have already said, is an authority, being in this court.
2. The decree of the court below gives precedence in
payment to the past due coupons, over the principal of the
bonds. This was in violation of a clear provision of the
mortgage, in case a default be made in the payment of the
principal or interest.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD, after stating the case, delivered
the opinion of the court:
1. Apellant contends that the proceeds of the sale of the
road, after paying the costs of suit, should be ratably applied towards the payment of the first mortgage bonds and
the overdue interest warrants under the same, instead of
being applied, as directed in the decree, to the payment of
the judgment in favor of the contractor, and to the overdue
interest warrants, to the exclusion of the principal of the
bonds. Appellees insist that inasmuch as the contractor
completed the road by the expenditure of his own means,
under a written agreement with the company, purporting to
secure to him the possession of the road and its earnings, he
has a right to retain the same, and that the proceeds of the
sale should be applied to the liquidation of the indebtedness
of the company to him until the same is fully discharged.
Possession of the road having been delivered by the company to the contractor for the purpose of completing the
road, the respondents insist that he, the contractor, having
never surrendered the possession, now holds a prior lien
upon the road, and in equity is entitled to a priority in the
distribution of the proceeds of the sale. Attempt is made

266

DUNHAM V.RAILWAY COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

to sustain that proposition, chiefly upon two grounds. 1st.
It is insisted that the mortgage to the complainant, as trustee
for the benefit of the bondholders, does not hold any part ol
the road except what was built at the time the mortgage was
executed and delivered. 2dly. They contend that a contractor,
expending money and labor in building a railroad, as in this
case, under an agreement with the company that he shall
have the possession of the road until he is fully paid, thereby
acquires a priority over an elder valid mortgage.
Neither of the propositions is based upon any peculiar
circumstances in the case, nor are there any such disclosed
in the evidence to take the case out of the general rules of
law applicable to similar controversies respecting railroad

transactions. Nothing of the kind is pretended, and it is
obvious that the pretence, if set up, could not be sustained,
as there is nothing in the circumstances to distinguish the
case from the ordinary course of events in that department
of business. Certain persons procured a charter for a railroad, and wanting means to complete it, decided fo issue their
bonds as a means of borrowing money, and mortgage their
road to secure their payment. Railroads, it is believed, have
frequently been built in that way, and if it be true that such
a mortgage holds no part of the road except what was completed, it is quite time that the rule should be distinctly
announced, that the consequences of further misapprehension
upon the subject may be avoided. But we are not prepared
to adopt any such rule, or to admit that the proposition has
any foundation whatever in the facts of this case. On the
contrary, we hold it to be clear law that the complainant, as
the trustee for the benefit of the bondholders, took "the
road built and to be built," together with all the other
matters and things specifically enumerated in the mortgage.
Express authority was given to the company by the Jaw of
the State to borrow such sums of money as they might deem
necessary for completing and operating their railroal, and
to issue and dispose of their bonds for any amounts so borrowed. What they wanted was money to enable them to
make the road, and the authority was expressly given to

Dec. 1863.]

DUNHA.M V. RAILWAY COMPANY.

267

Opinion of the court.

authorize them to mortgage it for that purpose. Authorized
as this mortgage was by express statute, the case is even
stronger than that of _Pennock et al. v. Coe (23 Howard, 128),
where the rights of the palties depended upon the general
rules of law.
Terms of the grant in that case were, "all present and
future to be acquired property," and yet this court held, 'in
a controversy between the grantees of a first mortgage and
the grantees of a second mortgage, that the first took the
future acquired property, although the property itself was
not in existence at the time the first mortgage was executed.
While enforcing the rule there laid down, this court said
there are many cases in this country confirming the doctrine,
and which have led to the practice extensively of giving that
sort of security, especially in railroad and other similar great
and important enterprises of the day. Several cases were
cited by the court on that occasion, which fully support the
position, and many more might be added, but it is unnecessary to refer to them, as the one cited is decisive of the point.
2 Story Eq. J-ur. (8th ed.), §§ 1040-1040 a.
2. Failing to sustain that position, the respondents, in the
second place, rely upon the terms of the subsequent agree.
ment made by the company with the contractor for the completion of the route. Counsel of respondents concede that
the mortgage to the complainant was executed in due form
of law, and the case also shows that it was duly recorded on
the ninth'day of March, 1855, more than eight months before
the contract set up by the respondents was made. All of the
bonds, except those subsequently delivered to the contractor,
had long before that time been issued, and were in the hands
of innocent holders. Contractor, under the circumstances,
could acquire no greater interest in the road than was held
by the company. He did not exact any formal conveyance,
but if he had, and one had been executed and delivered, the
rule would be the same. Registry of the first mortgage was
notice to all the world of the lien of the complainant, and
in that point of view the case does not even show a hardship
upon the contractor, as he must have known when he ac-

DUXHAm

V. 1RAILWAY COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

cepted the agreement that he took the road subject to the
rights of the bondholders. Acting as he did with a full
knowledge of all the circumstances, he has no right to complain if his agreement is less remunerative than it would
have been if the bondholders had joined with the company in
making the contract. No effort appears to have been made
to induce them to become a party to the agreement, and it
is now too late to remedy the oversight. Conceding the
general rules of law to be as here laid down, still an attempt
is made by the respondents to maintain that railroad mortgages made to secure the payment of bonds issued for the
purpose of realizing means with which to construct the road,
stand upon a different footing from the ordinary mortgages
to which such general rules of law are usually applied.
Authorities are cited which seem to favor the supposed
distinction, and the argument in support of it was enforced
at the bar with great power of illustration, but suffice it to
say, that in the view of this court the argument is not sound,
and we think that the weight of judicial determination is
greatly the other way. Pierce v. Emery (32 N. IH., 484);
Pennock v. Coe (23 How., 130); Field v. Tke Mayor of N. Y.
(2 Seld. 179); Seymour v. Can. and .Niag.FallsRailroad Company (25 Barb., 286); -Red. on Railways, 578; Langton v.
Hforton (1 Hare Ch. R., 549); M1atter of Howe (1 Paige, 129);
Winslow v. Mitchell (2 Story, C. C., 644); .Domat, 649, art. 5;
1 -Pw.on fllort. 190; Noel v. Burley (3 Simons, 108).
Decree of Circuit Court not only gives precedence to the
judgment of the contractor, but also to the past-due coupons
or interest warrants over the principal of the bonds. Complainant objects to the decree in both particulars, and we
think his objections are well founded. Terms of the mortgage are, that in case of default in payment of interest or
principal of any bond, and a sale or other proceedings to
coerce the same, all bonds which shall be a lien in common
therewith, and the interest accrued thereon, shall be considered, and shall in fact be equally due and payable, and
entitled to a pro ratadividend of the proceeds of said sale or
other proceedings. Reference is made to another clause of

Dec. 1863.]

STURGIS v. CLOUGH.

269

Statement of the case.

the mortgage, where it is said that in no case shall the principal of any bond be considered due until twenty years after
its date; but it is quite obvious, we think, that the latter
clausb was inserted merely to exclude any possible inference
that a bondholder under any circumstances might bring an
action for the principal of a bond before it became due by
its terms. Such was, doubtless, the intention of the provision, but it does not in any manner conflict with the suggestion already made, that in case of sale on account of default
of payment of interest or principal, that all the bonds of the'
same class, and the interest accrued thereon, shall be entitled
to a pro rata dividend of the proceeds.
The decree of the Circuit Court is, therefore, reversed, with
costs, and the cause remanded for further proceedings, in
conformity with the opinion of this court.
DECREE ACCORDINGLY.

Mr. Justice DAVIS dissented.

STURGIS V. CLOUGH.
Although the language of a decree in admiralty may declare a decision which
might not, if it were construed by its exact words, be capable of being
supported, still, if it is obvious from subsequent parts of the record
that no error has been committed, the court will not reverse for this
circumstance.
ET. Gr. where a decree allowed a certain sum for repairs to a vessel, and
rejected (improperly, perhaps,) a claim for demurrage, the decree was
not reversed on that account; it appearing from a subsequent part of
the record that the judge had in fact considered the sum he allowed
for repairs eo nemine was too large for repairs simply, but was "about
just" for repairs and demurrage together.
ERRoR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of N'ew York, the case being thus:
The steamer Mabcy had injured the steamer Hector in

a collision, and had been libelled for damages.

It being

referred by the court to a commissioner to assess these
damages, the owners of the Hector claimed the whole cost of
the repairs, and also damages for fouiteen days' dem'urrage,

