:BURR v. :DURYEE.

ISup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

chambei or trunk of thin sheet metal, regulated by a movable top, so that the deposit of the fibres could be regulated
by adapting the form of the delivery aperture to any size
required.
Now, the machine of Boyden has not one of the peculiar
devices, or combination of devices, of the Wells machine,
nor any substantial identity with it, unless by substantial
identity is meant. every machine which produces the same
effect. These abstract phrases, "substantial identity," "equivalent," "mode of operation," &c., are often used in such a
vague and equivocal manner, that they mystify and lead
many to absurd conclusions, who will not distinguish between things that differ. That two machines produce the
same effect, will not justify the assertion that they are substantially the same, or that the devices used by one are,
therefore, mere equivalents for those of the other. There
is nothing in the Wells machine or its devices which suggests the peculiar device employed by Boyden. His machine
has no tunnel, no cap, no flap, nor any equivalent therefor,
nor does it incorporate in its structure the substance of the
first invention. Thereis nothing to be found in the specification of Wells which would ever suggest the peculiar device
of the Boyden machine. As an improvement,. it has more
claim to originality than that of Wells. It is thus correctly
described: "This invention relates to an improve.d n-ode
of directing and guiding the fur, as hereinafter fully shown
and described, whereby trunks and all other comparatively
complicated appliances hitherto used for the purpose are
dispensed with, and an exceedingly simple and efficient
device substituted therefor. The invention consists in placing directly in front of the picker a plate so bent or curved
that its surface will have a certain relative positien with the
axes of the picker and the surface of the cone, and give such
a direction to the fur, as the latter is thrown on it by the
rapid motion of the picker, that the fur will be drawn properly on the cone by the exhaust or suction within it."
Now, "an infringement involves substantial identity,
whether that identity be described by the terms, 'same

Dec. 1863.]

BURR v. DURYE.
Opinion of the court.

principle,' same modus operandi,' or any other. It is a copy
of the thing described in the specification of the patentee,
either without variation, or with such variations as are consistent with its being in substance the same thing. If the
invention of the patentee be a machine, it will be infringed
by a machine which incorporates in its structure and operation the substance of the invention; that is, by an arrangement of mechanism which performs the same service or
produces the same effect in the same way, or substantially
the same way."*
No one who reads the two specifications, or inspects the
two machines, can aver that they contain the same combination of mechanical devices, or substantially the same, to
produce the desired effect. N'ot one of the devices, or its
equivalent, used in the one is to be found in the other, nor
is its mode of operation the same. The argument used to
show infringement assumes that every combination of devices in a machine which is used to produce the same effect,
is necessarily an equivalent for any other combination used
for the same purpose. This is a flagrant abuse of the term
"equivalent."
Without attempting to define this abstract
term by other abstract terms, we may give examples which
will best show its application to machines, as, where a simple
lever is used in one, and the other substitutes a cam, or toggeljoint, or wedge for a cam, and many other cases where one
mechanical power is substituted for another in a machine.
In the case of McCormiek v. Talbot,t we have said: "If the
invention claimed be itself but an improvement on a known
machine by a mere change of form or combination of parts,
the patentee cannot treat another as an infringer who has
improved the original machine by use of a different form, or
combination performing the same functions. - The inventor
of the first improvement cannot invoke the doctrine of equivalents to suppress all other improvements which are not
colorable invasions of the first."
But it has been argued, that though not a colorable in.
vasion of the patentee's claim, it is an evasion of his patent,
*Curtis on Patents, 322.

t 20 Howard, 405.

BURR v. DURYE.

[Sup. CL

Opinion of the court.

which is equally injurious. If so, it is "damnum absque injuria." Every man has a right to make an improvement in
a machine, and evade a previous patent, provided he does
not invade the rights of the patentee.
Now we are of opinion that the invention of Wells was a
machine which was an improvement on the machines previously known. It is not founded on any new discovery of
the application of any element or power of nature to produce an effect. He was not the first to devise the application
of a vacuum to cones for the purpose of forming and compressing bats for hat-bodies, nor the first to discover that
such bats should be made of unequal thickness, nor of
pickers to distribute the fur from the carding apparatus.
He has improved this machinery by his peculiar devices of
brush, trunk, cap, flap, &c., combined in a machine which
failed to be automatic till further improved. We are of
opinion, also, that the specification of Wells correctly set
forth the peculiar combination of devices in the machine he
invented, that, as required by the statute, he truly and correctly stated the principle or mode of operation of his machine, and the functions performed by its several devices.
There was no mistake in his specification by inadvertency
or accident. He had a valid patent claiming his whole invention,-no more, no less.
But as the respondents are charged in the bill with infringement of a reissued patent, dated 3d December, 1860,
and since the patent granted to Boyden, we must give it
more special attention. It is true, we might dispose of it
by saying, that as the machine of Boyden is not an infringement of the original invention of Wells, it cannot infringe
the reissued patent if it be for the same invention, and if
the reissued patent be not for the same invention, it is void.
Without affirming or denying the charge of respondents,
that this reissued patent is fraudulent as well as void, it
will be proper more particularly to notice its history and
contents.
The patent to Boyden was issued on the 10th of January,
1860. The complainants were invited to examine it. They

Dec. 1863.]

BURit v. DUnYBE.
Opinion of the court.

did so, accompanied by their counsel and other experts.
After this, the complainants surrendered their valid patent,
or rather its reissue of 1856, and have another reissue, which
is now contended to have been made so elastic or expanded
that it maybe used to suppress all other inventions which have
been or may be made to effect the same purpose. The application for this reissue, as sworn to by one of the assignees,
contains the following suggestion: "That the aforesaid patent is not fully available to him, as assignee; that said error
has arisen from inadvertence, accident, or mistake," &c.
Previous to the Patent Act of 1836, which established a
board or bureau composed of competent examiners, patents
had frequently been adjudged invalid from the insufficiency
of the specification; usually because, by inadvertency, accident, or mistake, the patentee had not sufficiently separated
the old fiom the new, and had claimed more than he was
entitled to. Few inventors, or even learned lawyers, were
capable of correctly and clearly setting forth in a specification the proper limits of the just claim of the invention.
The thirteenth section was intended to remedy this evil, by
permitting the patentee to surrender his defective patent,
and have it renewed in proper form, "whenever it shall be inoperative or invalid, by reason of a defective or insufficient description or.spec2fication, or by reason of the patentee claiming in
his specification as his own, invention more than he had a
right to claim as new, if the error has arisen by inadvertency, accident, or mistake," &c.
Since the date of this act, not only the Patent Office but
the bar can furnish gentlemen fully competent to the task of
drawing up proper specifications, and but little liable to commit blunders from inadvertency. Specifications now seldom
issue from the Patent Office to which such an imputation

can be made. Nevertheless, this privilege of surrender and
reissue is resorted to more frequently than ever. Formerly,
when in course of investigation in a court of justice it was
discovered that a patent was invalid for any of the reasons
mentioned in the act, it was resorted to for protection. -Arow,
after a patent has been declared to be valid, the specification

BuRR v.

DURYEE.

[Sup. or.

Opinion of the court.

without defect, and the claim for nothing more than the
invention, after it has undergone examination for many
years, and'courts and juries have decided that the patent is
not invalid, through inadvertency, accident, or mistake, the
assignees come forward and make oath, that the inventor's
original patent is "unavailable" for some purpose unnecessary to be divulged. In the present case the purpose is
transparent. The specification of this reissued patent, instead of describing first the machine and the several devices
which exhibit its peculiar mode of operation in order to
produce the desired effect, and stating what the patentee
claims as his peculiar invention, commences by describing
"a mode of operation" as the thing intended to be patented,
and uses these words: "The said mode of operation,invented
by the said Henry A. Wells, is embodied in the following
description of the mode of application." The claim is for
the "mode of operation, substantially as herein described."
We have no leisure for a further development of this novel
form of patent, or how, by the use of general and abstract
terms, the specification is made so elastic that it may be construed to claim only the machine, or so expanded as to include
all previous or future inventions for the same purpose.
Morse was certainly the first who successfully applied the
element of electro-magnetism to telegraphing. By the
eighth claim of his reissued patent he claimed "not the specific machine described, but the use of the motive power of
the galvanic current however developed for printing signs
or letters at a distance, being a new application of that power
of which he was the first discoverer."
On which this court remark,* "It is impossible to misunderstand the extent of this claim, if it be maintained, it matters not by what process or machinery the result is accomplished. Another may possibly discover a mode of writing
or printing at a distance by means of the electric or galvanic
current, without using any part of the process or combination set forth in plaintiff's specification. Yet if it is covered
* O'Reilly v. Morse, 15 Howard, 112.

Dec.1863.]

Buiti v. DURYEE.
Opinion of the court.

by this patent the inventor could not use it, nor the public
have the benefit of it, &e. The court is of opinion it i- toe
broad and not warranted by law."
i this case we have an attempt to convert an improved
machine into an abstraction, a principle or mode of operation, or a still more vague and indefinite entity often resorted
to in argument, an "idea." Those who use the latter term
seem to have no fixed idea of what they mean by it. But it
may be used as successfully to mystify a plain matter as the
words used in the specification.
The Patent Bureau in this country is composed of men of
scientific attainments, who examine the merits of every
claimant of a patent, and decide whether in their opinion it
attempts to claim a monopoly of things before known or
invented. They are not expected, as formerly, to grant a
patent without inquiring, to every applicant who is ready to
pay the fees. Such a course of conduct would be highly
injurious to the public, by furnishing means to impose oir
the public by false pretences, and with threats of expensive
and ruinous litigation.
The surrender of valid patents, and the granting of reissued patents thereon, with expanded or equivocal claims,
where the original was clearly neither "inoperative nor invalid," and whose specification is neither "defective or insufficient," is a great abuse of the privilege granted by the
statute, and productive of great injury to the public. This
privilege was not given to the patentee or his assignee
in order that the patent may be rendered more elastic or
expansive, and therefore more "available" for the suppression of all other inventions.
We concur, therefore, in the decision of the Circuit Court,
that the machine of Boyden is not an infringement of the
invention of Wells; and if it be an infringement of the reissued patent, that patent is void.
2. The bill claims, also, for an infringement of Wells's
reissued patent for his process. This has not been much
insisted on. The respondents contend that it is void, being
for the same invention patented to Ponsford, in England, in
VOL. 1.

87

B3URIR

v.

DUIRYEIL

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

1839, and known to Wells, who was at the time in England.
This allegation we find to be fully supported by the evidence,
and decide accordingly.
DECREE APPIRMED WIT1 COSTS.

NOTE.

At the same time with the preceding cases, or rather immediately afterwards, two other cases, appeals from the New
Jersey district, between the same parties and relating to the
same general subject of hat-bodies, were heard; the same
counsel who had argued the first and principal case, arguing
these two also; though not at length, as from the fact already
mentioned, to wit, that the principles involved were the
same, it was understood that the decision of these two would
follow the decision of the first and principal case. The first of
these two cases decided simply a point of fact, to wit, that
the machine known as the "Boyden machine," and so largely
discussed in the principal case, was not an infringement of a
patent granted in the same department of manufacture to a
certain Hopkins: no reasons being assigned; GRIER, J., who
delivered the opinion of the court, remarking that, while their
honors had come to a conclusion satisfactory to their own
minds, it was impracticable to "vindicate" it without the use
of the "large museum of exhibits in the shape of machines
and models" which had been presented on the argument of
all these three cases, and which "were absolutely necessary
to give the court a proper understanding of the merits of the
controversy." The result, therefore, was stated; the curious
being referred for reasons to those given by the defendant's
witness, Mr. Tredwell, examined in the case. This decree,
too, was affirmed with costs.
The other of the two cases admits of a certain kind of
report, now given, as on the three pages which follow.

Dec. 1863.]

BuRut v. DURYEE.

Statement of the case.

SAME V. SAME.

No. 231.
The "Boyden machine" does not infringe the patent of A. B. Taylor.
The practice of reissuing patents for the purpose of interpolating abstract generalizations, so as to cover subsequent inventions made by
others, is condemned.
B LL in chancery, by which the complainant charged that the
defendants were using a certain machine for the manufacture of
hat-bodies, which infringed a patent originally granted in 185G
to a certain A. B. Taylor, and subsequently, in 1860, reissued,
for hardening the bodies of hats by means of rollers while on
the perforated cone upon which they had been formed, with a
contrivance to give them the reciprocating motion required in
the operation of being hardened. In the original patent of
Taylor, of 1856, the claim was limited to his "arrangement" for
hardening the body in a dry state, by "machinery operating substantially as set forth." The complainant, who had purchased
this patent, afterwards, however, saw the machine knowni as
Boyden's, and more particularly described in the preceding case.
He then (1860) surrendered his patent and obtained a reissue, in
which he altered his claim of invention from an "arrangement
of machinery" to a claim for a "vibrating concave surface."
The difference between the invention as claimed in the original
patent, and as subsequently set forth, as well as the general nature of his invention and claim, will appear more minutely by
the juxtaposition of them in parallel columns.
OriginalPatent, 1856.
The object of my improvements is
to harden the bat sufficiently to permit it to be removed from the perforated cone without the application of
water, and to facilitate the removal
of the bat from the cone without requiring the latter to be taken from its
position in the machine. These improvements consist in a mechanical
process of hardening the bat before

Rissue, 1860.

My said invention, which relates
to the hardening of the bat on tho
pervious cone on which it is formed,
and while the fibres constituting the
bat arc held to the surface of the cone
by the pressure of the surrounding
air, consists in combining with a perforated cone, on which the bat of the
fibres is held by the pressure of the
surrounding air, a vibrating ooncave
it is removed from the cone, and in suface, held by pressure,so as to act on
facilitating the removal of the bat the convex surface of the bat as it is vifrom the cone by means of a blast of brat4d, by means of which combina-

B URR

v.

[Sup. Ct.

D)URYEE.

Opinion of the court.
air forced through the cone. Thcre
are also various improvements in the
arrangement and construction of the
machinery devised by me, as will
hereih after more fully appear.

tion a large segment of the bat, along
its entire length, is acted upon at once
by the concave surface, while, by the
rotation, every part of the circumference is brought, in succession, under
the hardening operation.

Claim.

Claim.

What I claim as my invention and
desire to secure by Letters Patent, is
the arrangement for hardening the
hat-body in a dry state, by machinery
operating substantially as herein set
forth.

What I claim as my invention is,
the combination of a vibratingconcave
surface, substantially as described,
with an exhausted pervious cone, on
which the bat of flocculent fibres is
held by the pressure of the surrounding air, substantially as and for the
pu7pose
cpeified.

The argument was chiefly upon the points, how far the reissue
was for a principle or function as distinguished from a machine,
and how far such a patent was valid; and also, whether the
reissue was or was not for the same thing granted in the original patent; matters discussed much more fully in the principal ease.
M1r. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
After the observations made in the preceding and principal
case, it is not necessary to make further remarks on the art of
extending patents. It may be ranked "INTER INGENUAS ARTES,"
and may have the claim of novelty, if not of usefulness.
In this case, the invention of Taylor was the application of
pressure by means of rollers, with a contrivance to give them
the reciprocating motion necessary to this process of hardening.
He was not the inventor of the conical cover used in hardening
hat-bodies formed on a cone, nor of rubbing them by a reciprocating motion, but merely of a certain combination of devices
to produce a certain effect. Both the operation and the result
were well known, and the invention consisted only of the devices combined to perform the operation and produce the result.
It was open to every other person to make any other combination of devices to perform the operation, which was not a
mere colorable adoption of the patentee's combination. The
original specification of Taylor is drawn with sufficient care and

Dec. 1863.]

BURR v. DUR.YEE.

Opinion of the court.

judgment to cover all the patentee knew he had invented, and
the whole machine as described therein.
A comparison of the devices used in the two machines would be
unintelligible without models or drawings. The Taylor patent
is but for a form, or rather a combination of known devices, to
perform a certain operation and produce a certain desirable
effect. The combination used by Boyden is not a mere colorable
or substantial adoption of the same combination of devices. It
has as much z.ctin to originality as that of Taylor; but it has a
vibrating contue 6urface of cloth, pressing against the cone.
Accordingly, the tessued patent to Taylor, or rather to Burr, got
up after an examination of Boyden's machine, contained this interpolation in the description of his invention, "A vibrating concave curface held by pressure," &c., &c.; and the claim extended to
the "combination of a vibrating concave surface; then follow
the words, "substantially as described." In a contest with a previous patent, the last words can be called in to qualify the first,
and narrow it down to the peculiar combination of devices described; while, in assaulting a new combination, for the purpose
of suppressing it, the claim may be stretched to cover every
machine having a "concave vibrating surface," by calling all the
other parts "equivalents."
It is plain that this interpolation of an abstract gen'eralization, to render the specific description of the concrete machine
more elastic, was suggested by an examination of the Boyden
machine. If the same construction be given to the claim of
Taylor, as it would necessarily invoke in a contest with preceding inventions, to save it from the charge of being too broad,
the Boyden machine would be properly pronounced as no infringement: on the contrary, such a construction of it as would
include the Boyden machine, would make it void for being too
broad. It matters little on which horn of this dilemma the case
be put, the result must necessarily be the same.
DECREE AFFIRMED WITH COSTS.

RODRIGUES V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
RODRIGUES V. UNITED STATES.
A question of fact, to wit, of the location of survey in a previously confirmed Mexican grant; prior to the examination and decision of which,
the court sets forth the difficulties which attend any satisfactory determination of this class of California cases.

THIS was a case of conflicting land claims in California,
and came here on appeal from a decree of the District Court
for the Northern District of California, locating, by survey,
under the act of Congress of June 14, 1860, a previously
confirmed Mexican grant. The case, to understand which,
even imperfectly, the reader must refer to a map opposite,
was essentially thus:
In 1833, Mexico granted to Gonzales the tract marked A,
whose southkern boundary was the Creek or Arroyo de Butano.
In 1838, the same government, Alvarado being then governor, made a provisional concession to Ramona Sanchez for,
a league square, describing the tract as "known by the name
of 'Butano,' which tract, in 1848, Governor Miclheltorena
granted to her, reciting his deed to be the ratification of the
provisional title given to her, from the year 1838, to the tract
of land granted her, called Butano, bordering on the rancho of
the heirs of the deceased Sineon Castro, on the Serrania(or
ridge of mountains) and the sea." Sanchez had solicited the
land in 1837, asking for a league in length and half a league
in breadth. In 1842, between the dates last above named,
the government granted a tract also to the Simeon Castro
iust above named. It is described as " b o rd ering to the east
on the Sierra, to the west on the sea, on the north on the rancho
of Don Juan Gonzales, and to the south on that of Don Ylaria
Buelna." Reference was made, on the grant of each tract, to
the disefilos or maps annexed to the original petitions, but
these maps, like most of the disefios attached to Mexican
espedientes, were very rough sketches, and in the present
case were of imperfect value, except, perhaps, as indicating, to
9,greater or less degree, thatthe grant to Sanchez was between
-two "arroyos," or streams, which might be held to correspond with the streams known on better maps as the Arroyo

Dec. 1863.]

RODRIGUES V. UNITED STATES.

583

Statement of the case.

or Creek Butano, and the Arroyo or Creek de los Frijoles.
Undoubtedly upon a tract of about half a league, marked
No. 1, between those two streams, and bordering on the sea,
Sanchez had settled and resided from 1837. Still, a reference to the map will show that if Castro's north boundary
was that called for by his grant, to wit, "the rancho of Don
Juan Gonzales," then there was no place for Sanchez upon
the Butano Creek (from which stream her tract obviously
derived its name), in any such way as to border "on the
rancho of the heirs of the deceased Don Simeon Castro, on
the Serrania, and on the sea." The whole tract up to that
creek belonged to Castro, and it had, in fact, been confirmed,
surveyed, and patented to him, though neither Sanchez nor
Rodrigues were palties to any of the proceedings, and these
were had prior to the 14th June, 1860, when Congress passed
an act authorizing anybody to call into court and to contest
any survey afterwards to be made.* The difficulty therefore
was to bring Castro's tract up north, so as to "border on the
north on the rancho of Don Juan Gonzales," itself bounded
on the south by the Butano Creek, and at the same time give
to Sanchez, or rather to Rodrigues, who had succeeded to
her rights, a league between the Butano and the tract of
Castro. The thing was plainly impossible. However, to
give him a league somewhere, and at the same time to leave
Castro in enjoyment of all that he claimed and up to the
Butano, Rodrigues's tract was located as indicated by the plot
No. 2, that is to say, was made a long, narrow tract, north
of the Butano and east of Gonzales. This tract was upon
the Butano, in part; and it was "bordering on the rancho
of the heirs of the deceased Don Simeon Castro, on the Serrania," both in part. But the sea; where was it? It touched
the tract nowhere, and the tract was not the one which Ranmona Sanchez had settled on and occupied, whose general
locality is indicated by the plot No. 1.t This location, No. 2,
was set aside. Rodrigues was next located on the old tract
of Sanchez again; it being now assumed that some error had
See ante, p. 104, United States v. Sepulveda.
t Shaded in the map.

RODRIGUES V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. or.

Statement of the case.

taken place in giving Castro's north boundary; and that
while this boundary was really a creek, that creek was not
the Butano, but another one, to wit, the Frijoles, south of it.
It was among the facts of the case that the land granted to
Castro had been originally two tracts, with different names,
and that for the north one a concession had issued to a certain Bernal, who surrendered his rights to Castro, by whom
a final grant for both under one name was obtained. The
original papers, moreover, gave some indications, which,
compared by modern surveys of the Pacific coast, tended to
show that the tract did not go up to the Butano, and that the
northern boundary of one of the tracts was the Frijoles.
But everything was more or less obscure. The representatives of Castro had excepted to this location of Rodrigues on
No. 1, contending that all up to the Butano was theirs, and
that no one else should be put upon it. Superadded to the
difficulties just mentioned there was another, to wit, that
admitting Rodrigues to be rightly located between the Butano and the Frijoles, there was not enough land between
those two creeks, which were small and did not run far back,
to give him much more than half a league of land; whereas
the grant called for a whole one. What was to be done, in
view of the flict that the Butano and the Frijoles were natural boundaries, having unquestionable owners on the north
and south of them respectively, and that on the east was
the Sierra, or mountain range, of no use to any one, and of
less than none, if she had to take care of it, to a woman like
Ramona Sanchez, who in her petition represented herself as
a "desamparada mujer," an unprotected woman, who asked
for the land, as "un sitio valdio alproposito pa conte'ner en esu
ganado y hacer algunos labores pa subvenir d la mantencion de su
familia;" "a vacant place, adapted to keep my cattle and
carry on some husbandry for the maintenance of my family ?"
From what quarter was the deficit to come? A third survey
was now made; and assuming that as the tract was only "borderingon the Serrania," the Government meant that it should
not include any considerable part of it, as it would do if the
required half league was located east of the half on the sea,

Dec.1863.]

RODRIGUES V. UNITED STATES.

585

Argument for the appellant.

the surveyor turned the courses round, and forming an
"elbow" tract, made up the deficit by a survey upon the
south part of No. 2, in the manner meant to be indicated by
No. 3, and the chain lines upon the map. The south part of
No. 2 had, however, been entered on by persons who meant
to acquire it from right of pre-emption.
The case was one of obvious difficulty, and Judge HOfman, the District Judge in California, having examined the
whole case with great patience, and with a careful corparison of landmarks, and having stated at length the reasons of
his conclusion, finally located the easternmost portion on the
ridge, as indicated by No. 4, his decree being thus:.
"That said survey (the third) be and the same is hereby set
aside and rejected; and that a new survey of the tract herein
confirmed be made as follows, viz.: bounding the tract "on the
east by the Sierra; on the west, by the sea; on the south, by
the Arroyo de los Frijoles, as far as the same is delineated upon
the diseflo, and thence by the shortest distance to the Sierra;
and on the north by the Arroyo Butano, as far as the same is
delineated as a boundary upon the disefio; and thence (crossing
that stream)"by such line or lines as will include the area of
one square league."
From this decree Rodrigues, representing Sanchez, and
claiming to have No. 2, or at least No. 3, took the appeal.
31r. Gillet, for the appellant:
1. Mexico had conveyed to Castro a tract, having Baelna
on the south, and extending to Gonzales' ranch oa the north,
and this tract has been confirmed, surveyed, and patented:
consequently it is finally and conclusively located, so far as
this court and the United States are concerned. The Government has no land there now to convey.
2. The claimants in this cause are entitled to one square
league of land within the outboundaries of the tract described
in their grant as confirmed as they may select, which need
not touch all of them.

RODRIGUES V. UNITED STATES.

[sup. Ct.

Argument for the appellant.

It was settled in Fremont v. The United States* that Fremont might, "in the form and divisions prescribed by law
for surveys in California, embracing the entire grant in one
tract," select the quantity named in the grant. anywhere
within his outboundaries, which contained about ten times
the quantity granted. In The United States v. Fossat,t the
land was ordered to be "located at the election of the grantee or his assigns, under the restrictions established for the
location and survey of private land claims in California by
the executive department of this government." Under these
decisions Rodrigues has a right to claim his league square in
such form as he chooses, within his outer boundaries, three
of which only were given; and he cannot be compelled so
to locate so as to make him include land granted, confirmed,
and patented to another, and subject him to litigation and
probable, if not certain loss.
The quantity claimed by him was rightly located under
these decisions, by the second survey, which was bounded
south by a portion of the Castro grant, and was west of the
Serrania, and east of the Gonzales grant; which survey was
set aside. Rodrigues was not required to go to the sea, nor
to the Serrania, nor to the Castro grant. The north was left
open to him indefinitely.
3. It may be questioned, too, whether the decree as finally
made was not a nullity. The act of 14th July, 1860, under
which the power of the District Courts of California to act
in this sort of matter arises, is in these words: "1Andif, in its
opinion, the location and survey are erroneous, it is hereby
authorized to set aside and annul the same, or correct and
modify it."T The jurisdiction of the court is limited to one
of these two acts; and, under the land system of the United
States as applied to California, it cannot deprive the party
of his right of selecting his location within his "outer
boundaries." But in this case the court neither affirmed
nor set aside the survey, nor did it modify or correct it. It
decided, in advance, that the Surveyor-General should make
* 17 Roward, 542.

t 20 Id., 427.

$: 4, 12 Stat. at Large, '4

Dec. 1863.]

RODRIGUES V. UNITED STATES.

587

Opinion of the court.

a specified survey for one-half of the quantity in an entirely
new locality, and not in conformity with the rights of the
claimant. Practically it denied the authority of the cases
cited above, that the claimant may locate wherever he chooses
within the "outer boundaries," and seemed to act upon the
idea that the location must touch all of them at once.
This appeal by claimants brings up for .revision all the
orders and proceedings in the District Court in relation to
the survey which were made adversely to it. Justice can
be done by this court as it sees fit; and it can set aside the
last survey and order a new one, or it can restore, as we
ask it to do, the second survey, which gave a full league,
lapping upon no one, and which was set aside for a third
and fourth survey ordered. Or, it may give us No. 2.
Mr. Willes, who fled a brief of Mr. Stow, contra.
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
:No class of cases that come before this court are attended
with so many and such perplexing difficulties as these locations by survey of confirmed Mexican grants in California.
The number of them which we are called upon to decide
bears a very heavy disproportion to the other business of the
court, and this is unfortunately increasing instead of diminishing. Some idea of the difficulties which surround these
cases may be obtained by recurring to the loose and indefinite manner in which the Mexican government made the
grants which we are now required judicially to locate. That
government attached no value to the land, and granted it in
what to us appears magnificent quantities. Leagues instead
of acres were their units of measurement, and when an application was made to the government for a grant, which was
always a gratuity, the only question was whether the locality
asked for was vacant and was public property. When the
grant was made, no surveyor sighted a compass or stretched
a chain. Indeed, these instruments were probably not to be
had in that region. A sketch, called a diseflo, which was
rather a map than a plat of the land, was prepared by the

RODRIGUES V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. ct.

Opinion of the court.

applicant. It gave, in a rude and imperfect mbnner, the
shape and general outline of the land desired, with some of
the more prominent natural objects noted on it, and a reference to the adjoining tracts owned by individuals, if there
were any, or to such other objects as were supposed to constitute the boundaries. Their ideas of the relation of the
points of the compass to the objects on the map were very
inaccurate; and as these sketches were made by uneducated
herdsmen of cattle, it is easy to imagine how imperfect they
were. Yet they are now often the most satisfactory, and
sometimes the only evidence by which to locate these claims.
These difficulties have rather been incieased than diminished by the act of Congress of March 3d, 1851, entitled
"An act to ascertain and settle the private land claims in the
State of California," and the course of proceedings adopted
under it by the Board of Commissioners and the courts.
Before this board every person having a claim derived fiom
the Mexican government appeared, and in his own way and
to the best of his ability established his right. The primary
object of the act was to ascertain and separate the public
domain from that which had become, under the Mexican
government, private property; and hence, in every case, the
claimant was plaintiff, or actor, and the United States was
defendant. But no other private claimant was made a party
to the proceeding, and it may well be supposed, and indeed
we know it has often happened, that two or three claims for
the same land, or parts of the same, were progressing, pari
passu, in the same court, and the land has been confirmed
to each claimant, and probably each has received a patent
for it. As if aware of the confusion which must follow such
proceedings, the act of 1851 provides expressly that neither
the final decree of the Board of Commissiofiers, or of the
District or Supreme Court, or any patent to be issued undei
that act, shall be conclusive against any one but the claimant
and the United States. In some instances the board, or the
court, would construe the grant and accompanying espediente, and define the boundaries with particularity. In
others, they merely confirmed the grant, without any attempt

Dec. 1863.]

RODRIGUES

V.UNITED STATES.

Opinicn of the court.

at location. And in still other cases, they would partially
define the boundaries, and refer to the espediente for thai
which was left indefinite.
Then came the act of 1860, which attempted to settle these
difficulties in the making of the surveys under those decrees,
by permitting, or perhaps we should say compelling (for it
is yet to be determined whether every one interested is not
bound to come in or be barred), all parties interested in the
land covered by the survey, to come in and contest it. Are
they permitted to contest the decree under which the survey
is made? Or are they limited to denying that the survey
conforms to the decree? Or can they only contest the matter where the decree has not definitely located the grant?
Many such questions as these will arise under this act, and
will require great care and reflection to arrive at sound, safe
conclusions. In this proceeding new parties come before the
court, and often demonstrate that grants have been confirmed,
which necessarily conflict; and, upon a question of the location of'a survey, we have all the contests renewed which
should have been settled in the question of title.
The case before us is an example, containing as many of
the perplexities to which we have alluded as can well exist
in one case. Its consideration requires an examination of
three different claims, which have each, independently of the
other, been carried through the Board of Commissioners and
courts, and finally confirmed.
The first of these, that of Gonzales, was the oldest in reference to the date of the grant from Mexico, being made
in 1833. No party to the present record seeks to disturb its
location, and it is only to be considered here as bounding the
present claim. It is for three-fourths of a league, bounded
by the sea on the west, and the Butano Creek on the south.
The next grant in order of time is that to the present
claimants, under Ramona Sanchez. She, in 1837, made
app!ication for a half league of land, and the governor issued
to her a provisional concession for a league in 1838. Of the
location of this we will speak hereafter. Next came Simeon
Castro, who, in 1842, obtained from the government a grant

RODIIGUES V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

of four square leagues, bordering to the east on the Sierra,
to the west on the sea, to the north on the rancho of Don
Juan Gonzales, and to the south onl that of Don Ylaria
Buelna.
In the provisional concession of Governor Alvaraao, of
19th September, 1838, to Ramona Sanchez, the land is said
to be known by the name of Butano, and reference is made
to the espediente for its description. This must mean the
diserio accompanying her petition. In the final grant to her
in 1844, by Micheltorena, which is expressed to be a ratification of the provisional title given her in 1838, it is called the
Butano ranch, and is described as bordering on the ranch of
the heirs of Simeon Castro, on the Serrania, and on the sea.
Now, an examinaion of the disefio in her espediente, the
place of her residence, and her long possession under the
grant, with other matters, leave no doubt that if her grant
was to bound on the sea she must come between Gonzales
and Castro; yet Castro's grant calls for the grant of Gonzales
as his northern boundary. This would leave no place for
the location of claimant's land, where it seems reasonably
certain it was intended to be. How are we to adjust these
conflicting claims?
In the first place, we concur.with the District Court in
holding, that the language of the grant to Castro, which
makes his northern boundary the rancho of Gonzales, is a
mistake, and that it was only intended to extend north to the
Arroyo Frijoles, instead of the Arroyo Butano, which latter
is the southern boundary of Gonzales; and that between
these two, and bounded by the sea on the west, is the half
league petitioned for by Sanchez, constituting the valuable
portion of the league granted her by the governor.
It would extend this opinion to an unreasonable length,
discussing mere facts and inferences, to go into all the reasons which justify this conclusion. They are stated at length,
and with much clearness, in the opinion of Judge Hoffman
of the District Court. Among them may be mentioned the
fact, that the land granted to Castro originally constituted
two independent ranches, for one of which, the most northern,

Dec. 1868.]

RoDRIGuES V. 'UNITED STATES.

591

Opinion of the court.

a grant had been previously issued to one Bernal, but which
was surrendered by Castro when he took out a new grant
including both ranches. On the disefio accompanying his
petition these two are laid down, together with other natural
objects, corresponding with a survey of the coast since made,
so as to show that the tract did not extend so far north.
The diseho attached to the original grant to Bernal, the one
that was surrendered, shows also that its northern boundary
was the Arroyo Frijoles. The disefio found with the petition
of Sanchez shows that her grant must have occupied the
space between the Arroyo Butano and Arroyo Frijoles. Now,
if the Mexican governor really intended that Castro should
join Gonzales on the north, there was no place for the grant
to Ramona Sanchez, which, he says, is bounded by the sea
on the west, and borders on the lands of the heirs of Castro.
It is objected to this location of the grant that it places it
on land which has already been confirmed, surveyed, and
patented to the representatives of Castro. The answer to
this is, that we are called on in this proceeding to determine
where the grant toflhe present claimant ought rightfully to
be located, who was not a party to any of the proceedings
by which Castro's claim was confirmed, surveyed, or patented, and is not therefore bound or concluded by either the
decree, survey, or patent, as expressly enacted by the fifteenth
section of the act of 1851. For Castro's survey was made
before the act of 1860, and there was no opportunity for
this claimant to contest its location. And lastly, it may be
added, that the holder of the Castro claim has made himself
a party to the present proceeding, and must be bound by its
result; and if the errors of his grant and survey are corrected, so that the boundary of both claims shall be rightfully established, no wrong can accrue either to him or
claimant.
It has been strenuously urged that if the original half
league petitioned for by Sanchez has been correctly located,
that the remainder of th3 league granted her should be taken
out of the surplus of the Gonzales grant, instead of extending the grant eastward to the Sierra for quantity. It is suffi-

592

POMEROY'S LESSEE V. BANK OF INDIANA.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

cient to say that we see no reason for.making the distorted
survey which this would require, and encroaching upon settlers who have made pre-emptions, merely that claimant
may get better land than he does by extending his grant
eastward to the mountains, as his grant seems to demand.
On the whole case, without that full and satisfactory conviction of the entire soundness of the decree below, which
is desirable, but which is perhaps unattainable in many of
these cases, we see no better course than to
AFFIRM THE DECREE.

POMEROY'S LESSEE V. THE STATE BANK OF INDIANA.
1. No "1exception" lies to overruling a motion for a new trial, nor for entering judgment.
2. The entries on a judge's minutes, the memoranda of an exception taken,
are not themselves bills of exception, but are only evidences of the parties right seasonably to demand a bill of exceptions; memoranda, in
fact, for preserving the rights of the party in case the verdict should be
against him, and he should desire to have the case reviewed in an appellate tribunal. No exceptions not reduced to writing and sealed by
the judge, is a bill of exceptions, properly speaking, and within the
rules and practice of the Federal courts. The seal, however, being to
the bill of exceptions, and not to each particular exception contained in
it, it is sufficient if the bill be sealed, as is the practice in the first
and
second circuits, at its close only.
3. Where an objection is to the ruling of the court, it is indispensable that
the ruling should be stated, and that it should also be alleged that the
party then and there excepted.
4. This court cannot give judgment as on an. agreed statement of facts or
case stated, except where facts, and facts only, are stated, If there be
question as to the competency or effect of evidence, or any rulings of
the court below upon evidence to be examined, the court cannot entertain the case as an agreed statement. Burr v. The Des MAoines Co. (ante,
p. 99), affirmed.
5. *Where a case is brought here upon a writ of error issued under the 22d
section of the Judiciary Act, and there is neither bill of exceptions,
agreed statement, nor special verdict brought up, the judgment, generally speaking, will be affirmed; as it was in this case. Bur v. The
Das Mfoines Co. (ante, p. 99), where the case was "dismissed," simply.
was special in its circumstances.

Dec. 1863.]

POMEROY'S LESSEE v. BANK or INDIANA.

593

Statement of the case.

ERRoR to the Circuit Court for the District of Indiana.
The suit was ejeetment, brought by a nominal plaintiff
-is at common law, against the casual ejector, to recover possession of a tract of land in the State of Indiana. Process
was duly served upon the persons in possession; and the
corporation defendants were admitted to defend the suit, and,
as such defendants, filed the usual consent rule, confessing

lease, entry and ouster, and pleaded the general issue. The
parties waived a jury, and the evidence and law of the case
under the issue joined in the pleadings, were by the agreement of counsel submitted to the court. The court found
that the title of the defendants was the better title, and that
they were entitled to judgment. The plaintiffs then moved
for a new trial, and the parties were heard upon that motion,
but the court after the hearing overruled the motion, and
enteredjudgment for the defendants. 'hereupon, the plaintiff sued this writ of error, and sought to reverse the action
of the court upon the ground that the finding and judgment
were erroneous.
The premises in controversy had belonged to one 'Webb.
and both parties attempted to show title from that source.
The lessors of the plaintiff claimed title by virtue of a deed
from the marshal of the United States, given in pursuance
of a sale of the premises made by that officer under an execution issued from the Circuit Court of the United States.
The record showed that at the November Term, 1838, of
that court, held at Indianapolis, within and for the District
of Indiana, they recovered judgment against the owner of
the premises, and one Shoemaker, for the sum of $1125.31
damages, and costs of suit taxed at $36.19. Execution was
issued upon the judgment on the 17th December following,
and on the 20th of Mfay, 1839, the marshal made his return
up rn the same. The return showed that the sale was made
at Indianapolis, in the county of Marion, and not in the
county where the land lay, and that the lessors of the plaintiff were the purchasers at the sale for th - consideration of
$60, for the several tracts constituting the premises described
in the declaration.
VOL. I.
8

594

Po.ixEoY's LESSEE v. BANK OF INDIANA.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

The defeadants contended that the sale was void because
not made in the county where the land was situated, and
they claimed title under a certain trust deed previously executed by the parties before named as the judgment debtors
of the lessors of the plaintiff. The trust deed was dated on
the 5th November, 1838, and the title of the defendants was
derived under a conveyance made by the trustee in the execution of the trusts therein declared. The grantors, by the
terms of the deed, conveyed to the trustee, one Jenners, and
to his executors or administrators, as successors, all the real
estate, goods, chattels,judgments, notes, securities for money,
open accounts, and other choses in action, bank stock and
insurance stock, as more particularly set forth in a schedule
inserted in the instrument. The instrument itself recited
that the grant, bargain, sale, conveyance, transfer, and assessment were to be subject to certain specified trusts, and
be accompanied with certain described powers. A commission to the trustee and the expenses of executing the trust
were first to be paid in all cases; next, a certain promissory
note due to the Branch Bank of Indiana; then certain judgments already recovered against the grantors; then all other
and future judgments recovered against them, and finally,
all their other debts.
The plaintiff contended that the trust deed was void, on account of the extraordinary powers conferred upon the trustee,
and also on account of some unusual reservations contained
therein in favor of the grantors. Evidence was introduced
on both sides, and the parties were heard upon the merits
and also upon a motion for new trial, before the judgment
was finally entered.
The record stated that the plaintiff filed two bills of exceptions to the rulings of the court.
The first bill of exceptions stated that the court held1. That the proceedings under which the lessors of the
plaintiff made title were all correct, that the sale of the marshal was made at the usual place of making sales, and that
it was regular an' sufficient to convey the title of the judgment debtors.

Dec. 1863.]

PomEnoY's LESSEE v. BANK oF INDIANA.

595

Statement of the case.

2. That the trust deed was also valid and effectual in law
to convey the premises, and that it was the paramount and
better title.
Neitherparty excepted to any one of these rulings of the court,
but the bill of exceptions further stated in effect, that after
the decision was announced, and before the entry of the
judgment, the plaintiff moved the court to grant him a new trial
for thefollowing reasons:
First. Because the court erred in overruling the objection
of the plaintiff to the admissibility of the trust deed in evidence.
Second. Because the court erred in holding that the trust
deed was valid and constituted the paramount title as against
the lessors of the plaintiff claiming under the sale made by the
marshal.
The parties, as before remarked, were heard, and the motion overruled, and the final judgment entered. The concludiing statement of the bill of exceptions was as follows,
that is to say: " To the overruling of which motion and entry of
judgment as aforesaid, the plaintiff then and there exep2)ted;" the
exception being plainly to the overruling of the motion for a
new trial, and to the entry of judgment; not to the ruling of the
court on the subject of either the marshal'sor the trust deed.
The second bill of exceptions, which was entitled " CASE,"
followed. It occupied in the printed transcript of the record
presented to this court, fifty 8vo. pages in small pica type.
It had not the nature of a case stated, or agreed statement
of facts, in the stricter sense in which that expression is used
by the profession or courts, but was made up of a variety of
things. It contained, on the one hand, the evidence and
exhibits which the lessors of the plaintiffs introduced, and
parts of which, as the record showed, had been admitted
under objection from the other side, while other parts were
received without objection. In cases wliere objections were
made and overruled, it is stated sometimes that the defendants excepted; while in some instances that statement was
omitted. In one instance, where evidence offered by the
plaintiff's lessor was rejected, it is stated that the plaintiff

596

POMEoRoy's LESSEE v. BANK OF INDI&NA.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the defendant in error.

excepted. On the other hand, it contained the evidence and
exhibits introduced by the-defendants,whether admitted with
or without exception; and as in regard to the evidence on
the other side, when exception was made and overruled, an
exception was sometimes stated and sometimes not. Over
and above all which, various matters, introduced on both
sides, were given, to wit: judicial records, written and oral
testimony, instruments in writing and facts, sometimes admitted absolutely, sometimes introduced conditionally, and
subject to the court's opinion as to their competency and
value. No rulings of the court, nor its final judgment, were
given; but after the signatures of the respective counsel, one
representing the plaintiff and the other the defendant, the
whole concluded with a statement, signed by the judge and
under his seal, in these words:
"This was all the evidence given on the trial of said cause.
And the plaintiff prays this, his bill of exceptions, may be signed,
gealed, and made a part of the record herein, which is done."
Messrs. Chase andBurd,for the defendant in error: No question of merits can arise in this case; for there is nothing
before the court on which it can so give judgment. There
is no verdict, special or general, nor any case stated. The
record brought up here by writ of error, is a multifarious
congeries of everything. Burr v. The -Des Moines C., adjudged at this term,* decides that error will not lie except
upon an agreed statement of facts; a "case stated" properly,
in substantial form. MILLER, J., enunciates with terseness,
the principles which apply. The statement, he says, must
contain "the ultimate facts or propositions which the evidence is intended to establish, not the evidence on which
those ultimate facts are supposed to rest." It must "be sufficient without inference, or comparisons, or balancing of
testimony, or weighing evidence to justify the application of
the legal principles which must determine the case. It must
leave none of the functions of a jury to be discharged by the
* Ante, p. 99.

Pec. 1863.] POMEROY's

LESSEE v.

BaNK o ITNDIANA.

597

Opinion of the court.

court, but must have all the sufficiency, fulness, and perspicuity of a special verdict." This doctrine rests on precedent.*
Messrs. Carlisleand Brady, contra: There is a mass of tes.
timony, it is true, on this record; but it is superfluous merely;
for the findings of the court on facts were conclusive.t In
the midst, however, of all this irrelevant matter, two points
of law are discerned: one, as to the validity of the marshal's
deed; the other, as to the validity of the deed of trust; precise points both; both pure law. Both are set forth in the
record, and with them is set forth the judgment of the court
on each. The requirements as enunciated in Burr v. The
-Des Moines Go. are thus satisfied before us. They were not
satisfied there. The case was on a "mass of testimony" only.
What we ask of this court is its judgment on the points of
law distinct and distinctly visible in all the confusion of the
case. To a record as to a deed the maxim applies: "Utile
per inutile non vitiatur."
If, however, the court should be of opinion that the case,
as presented, is not so stated as to be adjudicable by a court
of law, we trust that it will not affirm the judgment; but will
order a new trial, or at least dismiss the writ of error. This
was the course pursued in Burrv. The De&s Moines Co., relied
on by the other side.
Mr. Justice CLIEFFORD, after stating the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.
Exceptions to the first bill, as written out and sealed, are
plainly and undeniably to the overruling of the motion ior a
new trial, and to the subsequent entry of the judgment and
not to the rulings of the court as to the validity of the trust
deed or its legal effect as a paramount title over that claimed
by the lessors of the plaintiff.
Authorities are numerous that a motion for a new trial in
the Federal courts is a motion addressed to the discretion of
* Kelsey v. Forsyth, 21 Howard, 8.5; Campbell v. Biyreau, Id., 224;
Guild v. Frontin, 18 Id., 135; Suydam v. Williamson, 20 Id., 428.
t United States v. King, 7 Howard, 844.

598

POMEROY'S LESSEE V. BANK OF INDIANA.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

the court, and that the decision of the, court in granting oi
refusing it is not the proper subject of a bill of exceptions.
.fendersonv. Moore, 5 Cran., 11; Mar. lIs. Co. v. Young, Id.,
187; McLanahan v. The Universal Ins. Co., 1 Pet., 183; U.
S. v. Buford, 3 Id., 32; Barr v. Gratz, 4 Wheat., 213; Blunt
v. Smith, 7 Id., 248; Brown v. Clarke, 4 How., 4.
Indeed, the universal rule of practice is, that matters resting entirely in discretion are not re-examinable in a court of
errors, and there can be no departure from that rule in this
court without overruling its settled practice from the organization of the court to the present time. Presumption, therefore, in this court is, that the motion for new trial was
properly denied, and if so, then the defendants were entitled
to judgment. Ruling of the court was that the trust deed
was the paramount title, and to that ruling no exception was
taken, and consequently, when the motion for new trial was
overruled, the right of the defendants to judgment became
complete.
Entry of judgment, therefore, was properly
made, and the exception to the action of the court in that
behalf, as erroneous, is without any foundation whatever.
Error of the court, if any, was in the ruling that the trust
deed was the paramount title, and if the plaintiff desired to
sue out a writ of error to revise that ruling, he should have
excepted to it at the time it was made. Y. & C. Railroad
Co. v. Myers, 18 How., 251.
He insists that he did so, because it is so stated in the
minutes of the case as appears in the transcript, but the
insuperable difficulty in supporting that proposition is, that
nothing of the kind appears in the bill of exceptions. Where
exceptions are taken to the ruling of the court in the course
of a trial to the jury, such an entry is frequently made in
the minutes of the case, or of the presiding justice, as evidence of the fact, and as a means of preserving the rights
of ihe party in case the verdict should be against him and
he should desire to have the case re-examined in the appellate tribunal, but it was never supposed that such an entry
could be of any benefit to the party unless he seasonably
availed himself of the right to reduce the same to writing,

Dec. 1863.]

PoiERoY's LE.ssEE v. BANK

oF INDIANA.

599

Opinion of the court.

and took proper measures to have the bill of exceptions
sealed by the judge presiding at the trial, or, in other words,
such an entry in the minutes can only be regarded as evi.
dence of the right of the party seasonably to demand a bill
of exceptions, but it is not the same thing, and has never

been so considered in the Federal courts, or in any other
jurisdiction where the rules and practice of the common law
prevail.
II. Authority was conferred, by the seventeenth section
of the Judiciary Act, upon all the courts of the United States,
to make and establish all the necessary rules for the ordinary
conducting of business in the said courts, provided such rules
were not repugnant to the laws of the United States. (1 Statutes at Large, 83.)
Pursuant to that authority the several Circuit Courts, immediately after the judicial system of the United States was
organized, adopted the form for bills of exceptions as known
at common law, and the practice has been uniformly followed
to the present time, without question or any material variation. Bills of exceptions, therefore, in the Federal courts, are
required to be drawn as at common law, under the statute
of Westminster 2 (13 Edw. I, chap. 31), passed in the year
1285, and of course they must be sealed by the judge, as
therein required. 1 Pick. Stat., 206; 2 Tidd's Practice, 862;
1 Arch. Prac. by Chitty (11th ed.), 443; 2 Inst., 427; 2 Bac.
Abr. by Bouvier, 113.
Justiciarii apponant sigilza sua, is the express command of
the statute, and so is the commentary of Lord Coke, which
has always been regarded as of the same authority as the
statute on which it is founded. 2 Inst., 428; Strother v. HutehiMson, 4 Bing. N. C., 89.
Party aggrieved might, before the enactment of that satute, sue out writ of error to correct an error in law apparent
on the record, or for an error of fact, where either party had
died before judgment; but the writ would not lie for an
error in law not apparent on the record, as for a refusal to
instruct the jury as requested, or for an erroneous instruction
given, or for an erroneous ruling in admitting or rejecting

600

POMEbOY's LESSEE v. BANx OF INDIANA.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

evidence. Consequently, where either party alleged anything ore tenus, which was overruled by the court, the party
was without remedy; because, being an error in law, and
not apparent in the record, the appellate tribunal could not
take judicial knowledge of the proceeding. Statute under
consideration was passed to obviate that difficulty, and to
prevent the injustice flowing from it, and throughout the
long period it has continued in force, it has ever been regarded as an eminentlyjust and highly beneficial regulation.
Writs of error, it is true, bring up the whole record, and it
is undeniably competent for the court to reverse the judgment for any apparent error, whether it appear in the bill
of exceptions or in any other part of the record. Slacum v.
-Pomery,6 Cran., 221; Cohens v. Virginia, 6 Wheat., 410; Garland v. Davis, 4 How., 131; Bennett v. Butterworth,11 Id., 669.
But when a party is dissatisfied with the decision of his
cause in an inferior court, and intends to seek a revision of
the law applied to the case in a superior jurisdiction, he
must take care to raise the questions of law to be revised,
and put the facts on the record for the information of the
appellate tribunal; and if he omits to do so in any of the
methods known to the practice of such courts, he must be
content to abide the consequence of his neglect or oversight.
Suydam v. Williamson, 20 How., 433.
Unless an exception is reduced to writing and sealed by
the judge, it is not a bill of exceptions within the meaning
of the statute authorizing it, and it does not become part
of the record.
Were it otherwise, then a bill of exceptions would never
be necessary; because if the statement in the minutes is
sufficient in one case, it must be in all, which cannot for a
moment be admitted, as it would overturn the unbroken
practice in courts of error from the passage of the Statute
of Westminster to the present time. Seal, as required, is
to the bill of exceptions, and not to each particular exception
therein contained. Many exceptions may be inserted in one
bill of exceptions, and of course it is sufficient if the bill of
exceptions is sealed at the close. Accordingly, the practice,

Dec. 1863.]

PomEnoY's LESSEE v. BANK oF INDIANA.

601

Opinion of the court.

in the first and second circuits, is to put every exception
taken at the trial into one bill of exceptions, which makes
the records less voluminous.
IIL Second bill of exceptions, so called, is denominated theJ
" case" in the record, and extends through more than fifty
pages of the transcript. First, it contains all of the evidence
and exhibits introduced by the lessors of the plaintiff, and
the record shows that portions of the same were admitted
under the objection of the defendants, and other portions
without objection. When objections were made and overruled, it is stated in some instances that the defendants excepted, and in others that statement is omitted. Evidence
offered by the lessors of the plaintiff in one instance was
rejected, and in that case it is stated that the plaintiff excepted. On the other hand, it contains, in the second place,
all the evidence and exhibits introduced by the defendants,
whether admitted under objection or without objection, and
as in the case of the lessors of the plaintiff, when the objection
made was overruled by the court, it is in some instances stated
that the plaintiff excepted to the ruling, and in others that
statement is omitted. Matters so introduced on the one side
and the other consist of judicial records, written instruments,
depositions, oral testimony, and certain other facts, either
absolutely admitted by the parties or their counsel, or pro:
visionally introduced, subject to the opinion of the court as
to their admissibility and legal effect. Rulings of the court,
as stated in the first bill of exceptions, are not given, not is
it stated what was the final judgment of the court. Appended to the statement are the signatures of the respective
counsel, and the conclusion of the paper is as follows: "This
was all the evidence in the case, and the plaintiff prays that
this his bill of exceptions may be signed, sealed, and made a
part of the record her ein, which is done," and the same is
signed by the presiding justice, and is under his seal.
IV. Nothing further need be remarked to show that no
proper foundation is there laid for the revision of the rulings
of the court, to which the lessors of the plaintiff now object,
because those rulings are not mentioned in the paper, so

602

POMEROY'S LESSEE V. BANK OF INDIANA.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

that even if it could be regarded as a bill of exceptions, it
would be equally unavailing to the plaintiff as a means of
accomplishing the object he desires. 'Where the objection
is to the ruling of the court, it is indispensable that the
ruling should be stated, and it should also be alleged that
the complaining party then and there excepted to the same.
Both conditions are wanting, and indeed the paper is irregular or defective, and insufficient in many of the substantial
elements of a proper bill of exceptions.
V. Suggestion was also made at the argument, that if the
paper was not available to the plaintiff, as a bill of exceptions,
still the evidence, as reported, might subserve his purpose as
an agreed statement of facts; but we think not, for several
reasons.
First. Because it merely gives the evidence as it was introduced on the one side and the other, and leaves the
results of the evidence to be found by the court, as if sitting
as a jury.
Secondly. Because it does not contain the rulings of the
court which the plaintiff desires to have revised; and,
Thirdly, because if both of the preceding objections were
obviated, still it would not be competent to revise the rulings
of the court below in that mode. 2 Tidd's Practice, 896;
Sewardv. Jackson, 8 Cow., 406.
Decisions of this court establish the rule that writs of error
will lie where the judgment in the court below was founded
upon an agreed statement of facts, as well as when founded
upon the verdict of a jury. U. S. v. Eliason, 16 Pet., 291;
Stimpson v. Railroad Co., 10 How., 329; Graham v. -Bayne,
18 Id., 60.
Judgments of the Circuit Court may also be revised here
upon writ of error, in cases where they were founded upon
a special verdict, or upon demurrer to evidence. Suydam v.
Williamson et al., 20 How. 435; 4 Chitty's Gen. Prac., 7; 2
Inst., 427.
None of the modes suggested, however, enable the complaining party to review or re-examine the rulings of the
court, except that of the bill of exceptions.

Dec. 1868.]

]?omEroY's LESSEE v.BAx OF INDIANA.

603

Opinion of the court.

1. Agreed statements rest upon the consent of the parties,
and, ccnsequently, the action of the revising tribunal must
be confined to the agreed facts, and the facts cannot be said
to be agreed while the parties are at issue as to the admissibility or competency of the evidence.
2. Special verdicts are where the jury find the facts of the
case, and upon those facts refer the decision of the cause to
the court, with a conditional conclusion, that if the court
should be of opinion that the plaintiff, upon the facts found,
has a good cause for action, then they find for the plaintiff;
but if otherwise, then they find for the defendant. Rulings
of the court, however, in admitting or rejecting evidence,
are never properly included in a special verdict, any more
than in an agreed statement of facts; because, when reduced
to form, the verdict is then entered on the record, and the
judgment of the court is based upon the findings of the jury.
8. Evidence must first be admitted before it is properly
the subject of demurrer, and when a party elects that mode
of trying the case, he thereby waives all objections to the
rulings of the court in respect to evidence rejected, as well
as to that previously admitted, so that in no point of view
can the paper under consideration be regarded as sufficient
to lay the foundation for a revision of the rulings which are
the subject of complaint.
VL. Having come to the conclusion that the paper in the
transcript is not a good bill of exceptions, agreed statement
of facts, or a special verdict, the result is that it is not a part
of the record, and under the circumstances of this case, it
must be wholly disregarded by the court in determining
whether the judgment of the court below ought to be reversed or affirmed. Inglee v. Coolige, 2 Wheat., 863; Suydam v. Willi.nson, 20 How., 439.
Special circumstances induced the court, in Burr v. Des
.Tlfoines NanR. B. Co., decided at the present term (ante, p.
'99), to dismiss the writ of error, and allow the parties an
opportunity to make a further effort to present the case in
some proper form; but the court in that case held that the
legal presumption was in favor of the correctness of the

604

SPAIN V. HAMILTON'S ADMINISTRATOR.

[Sup.

Ct.

Syllabus.

judgment. Where a case is brought here upon a writ of
error, issued under the twenty-second section of the Judiciary Act, and there is no bill of exceptions, agreed statemert, or special verdict in the transcript, the general rule is,
that the judgment will be affirmed, as is shown by repeated
decisions. Suydam v. Williamson, 20 How., 441; Minor v.
Tillotson, 2 Id., 892; Kelsey v. Forsyth, 21 Id., 85; Guild v.
.Frontin,18 Id., 135; Stevens v. Gladding, 19 Id., 64; Taylor v.
Morton, 2 Black, 484.
In the case last cited, this court said that when a cause is
brought into this court upon a writ of error sued out under
the twenty-second section of the Judiciary Act, and all the
proceedings are regular and correct, it follows, from the
express words of the section, that the judgment of the court
below must be affirmed, although there is no question presented in the record for revision.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is, therefore,
AFFIRMED WITH COSTS.

SPAIN v. HAMILTON'S ADMINISTRATOR.

1. A transfer by a party of his "right and claim for any commission or corpensation for services rendered, or to be rendered to any body corporate,"
in a class of claims mentioned generally in the transfer, is not such an
assignment, even in equity, of a compensation subsequently earned, as
will give the transfer priority against junior assignees (without notice)
of portions of a fund designated and appropriated to answer this claim:
the case being one where, on the one hand, the older transferee did not
make inquiries as to what body corporate the claim for commissions
was against, and did not give notice of the paper executed in his favor,
to such body corporate, nor to a third party to whom this body, subsequently to the older transfer, but prior to the junior ones, devoted a
fund to answer these commissions; and where, on the other hand, the
junior transferees did make exact inquiries and obtain precise evidences
and accurate information as to the fund from which the commissions
were to be derived, and did immediately notify to the party then holding the fund, the nature and extent of their claims, and did generally
take measures to prever t all other persons being misled by the supposition that the fund still remained in the power of the party who had
transferred this claim ior -omwm.-ions upon it. Such an assignment

