Dec. 1863.]

CLEARWATER V. MEREDITH.

25

Opinion of the court.

Messrs. Traphagen, Brady, and Carlisle, contra.
Mr. Justice WAYNE delivered the opinion of the court:
I am instructed by the court to announce it to be its opi.
nion that there can be no abatement of the case upon the
counsel's suggestion, as it is declared in the charter of the
bank, that though its charter should continue as such until
the first day of January, 1859, and that all its banking powers
should cease after the first day of January, 1857; that it
should have all the "necessary and incidental powers to collect and close up its business," within which we deem the
rights of the plaintiff in this court to be comprehended.
MOTION REFUSED.

CLEARWATER V. MEREDITH ET AL.
I The statute of Indiana, passed February 23, 1858, which authorizes connecting railroad corporations to merge and consolidate their stock, and
make one joint company of the roads thus connected, causes, when the
consolidation is effected-as is declared by the Supreme Court of the
State, in Me31-ahonv. Morrison (16 Indiana, 172)-a dissolution of the
previous companies, and creates a new corporation with new liabilities
derived from those which have passed out of existence. Hence, where
the declaration avers that the defendant had agreed that stock of a particular railroad in Indiana should be worth a certain price at a certain
time and in a certain place, and the plea sets up that under the above
mentioned statute of February 23,1853, the stock of the railway named
was merged and consolidated by the consent of the 2arty suing, with a
second railway named; so forming "one joint stock company of the
said two corporations," under a corporate name stated, such plea is good,
though it does not aver that the consolidation was done without the
consent of the defendants. And a replication which tenders issue upon
the destruction of the first company and upon the fact that its stock is
destroyed, rendered worthless, and of no value, traverses a conclusion
of law, and is bad.
2. Such a plea as that just mentioned contains two points, and , wo points
only, which the plaintiff can traverse,-the fact of consolidation an.
the fact of consent; and these must be denied separately. If denied
together, the replication is double, and bad.
3. When a plaintiff replies to a plea, and his replication being demurred to,
is held to be insufficient, and he withdraws that replication and substitutes a new one-the substituted one being complete in itself, not referring to or making part of the one which preceded-he waives the right

CLEARWATER V. MEREDITH.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
to question in this court the decision of the court below on the sufficiency of what he had first replied. The same is true when he abandons
a second replication, and with leave of the court files a third and last one.
4. On demurrer to any of the pleadings which are in bar of the action, the
judgment for either party is the same as it would have been on an issue
in fact joined upon the same pleading, and found in favor of the same
party; and judgment of nil capiatshould be entered, notwithstanding
there may be also one or more issues of fact; because, upon the whole, it
appears that the plaintiff had no cause of action. This rule of pleading
declared and applied.

UNDER the provisions of a statute of Indiana, passed May
11, 1852, for the incorporation of railroads, the Cincinnati,
Cambridge & Chicago Short Line Railway Company-frequently entitled throughout the case, for brevity, "The Short
Line Railway"-was created and made a "corporation" in
that State.* This act contained no provision by which any
railroad company incorporated under it could consolidate its
stock with the stock of any other corporation. In February
of the year following, however, the legislature did pass an
actt allowing any railway that had been organized, to intersect with any other road, and to merge and consolidate their
stock; an act whose privileges, on the 4th of the month following, were extended to railroad companies which should
afterwards be organized. The language of the act was:
"Such railroad companies are authorized to merge and consolidate the stock of the respective companies, making ONE
JOINT STOCK COMPANY of the two railroadsthus connected."
With these statutes in force, Clearwater, on the 12th July,
1853, sold a tract of land to Meredith and others for $10,000,
taking 200 shares of the already mentioned Short Line Railway Company's stock in payment; Meredith and they, however, by written contract, guaranteeing to Clearwater, that
the stock should be worth par, that is to say, $50 a share, in
Cincinnati, on the 1st October, 1855.
The 1st October, 1855, having arrived and passed, and
Clearwater, considering that the stock was not worth par at
Cincinnati, brought assumpsit in the Circuit Court for the
* Revised Statutes of Indiana, ed. 1860, p. 504.

t Act of 23d February, 1853; ib. 526.

Dec. 1863.]

CLEARWATER V. MEREDITH.

27

Statement of the case.

Indiana District, against Meredith and his co-guarantors, on
the contract. The declaration set forth the sale, acceptance of
the stock, and guaranty; that Clearwater still held possession of the stock; and it assigned for breach, that the stock
was not worth par at the time and place stipulated, but on
the contrary, was of no value at all.
To this declaration there were six pleas. Issues, in fact,
were joined on the first and fourth, and demurrers sustained
to the second, third, and sixth.
The fifth plea set forth substantially, that after the execution of the guaranty, and before the 1st of October, 1855, to
wit, &c., the stock of the said Short Line Railway was merged
and consolidated with the stock of a second railway company
named; * making one joint stock company of the two, under
a new corporate name, which was given; t that the said corporations were organized and formed under the already men.
tioned act of May 11, 1852, to provide for the incorporation
of railroad companies; that the roads were connecting and
intersecting roads; that the consolidationwas made with the
consent of the stockholders and directors of both companies;
that afterwards, in August, 1854, the-said newly formed joint
company was merged and consolidated with a third railway
corporation of the State of Indiana, whose name was also
given; I which company was constructing a road that intersected with the said already mentioned newly formed joint
company; that by the said consolidation, the stock of the said
two companies was merged and consolidated, "forming one
joint stock company out of said two companies;" that the said
consolidation was made with the consent of the directors and
stockholders of said two companies, and-with the consent of
said plaintiff; that the said consolidated company assumed
a third corporate name, which was stated; § and that, by reason of the said consolidation,the stock of the Short Line Railway Company in said agreement specified, was destroyed.
* The Cincinnati, New Castle & Michigan Railroad Co.

f The Cincinnati & Chicago Railroad Co.
: The Cincinnati, Logansport & Chicago Railway Co.
J The Cincinnati & Chicago Railroad C-o.

CLEARWATER V.

MEREDITH.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in support of replication.

and rendered wholly worthless and of no value. A demurrer was interposed to this plea, which was overruled.
Then the plaintiff fied a replication. To this a demurrer
was put in by the other side, and the court having sustained
it, an amended or rather a substituted replication was put
in. To this a demurrer was also sustained. -Whereupon,on
motion and by leave of the court, the plaintiff withdrew his
joinder in demurrer, and filed the following second amended
replication:
"And the plaintiff, as to the plea of the defendants fifthly above
pleaded, says that he ought not, by reason of anything therein
alleged, to be debarred or precluded from having and maintaining his aforesaid action against the defendants, because he says
that the said stock of the Cincinnati, Cambridge & Chicago Short
Line Railway Company was not destroyed, either in whole or in
part, nor was the same renderedworthless and of no value, in manner andform as the defendants by their said plea have alleged. And
this he prays may be inquired of by the country."
This replication was also demurred to, and the demurrer
sustained. The plaintiff now saying nothing further, and
choosing to abide by his last-named amended replication,
judgment was rendered for the defendant.
The question presented on error here was this: Did the
court below commit error when it sustained a demurrer to
the last replication, and gave judgment against the plaintiff,
Clearwater, as it did?
Mr. Pugh for Clearwater, the plaintiff in error: The demurrer asserts, of course, that the replication is bad, and
the reasons which will be assigned to show that it is so are,
that it is double, and also that it traverses matter of law.
1. Is the replication double.P It cannot be supposed that
the fifth plea intended to allege the three facts stated, namely,
the consolidation, the Ii1aintiffs consent, and the destruction
of the stock, as three separate matters of defence. It means
that the defendants were excused from their agreement because the stock of the plaintiff had been destroyed, and that
the destruction resulted from a consolidation to which the

Dec. 1863.]

CLEARWATER V. MEREDITH.

Argument in support of replication.

plaintiff had consented. Now all three
gether) but a single point of. defence;
cluding all its elements, the plaintiff,
pleading, had a right to -put in issue.
thus illustrates the rule :*

facts constitute (to.
and that point, inby settled rule of
Sergeant Stephen

"In an action of trespass for breaking the plaintiff's close and
depasturing it with cattle, the defendant pleaded a right of
common in the close for the said cattle, being his own commonable cattle, levant and couchant upon the premises. The plaintiff, in the replication, traversed 'that the cattle were the
defendant's own cattle, and that they were levant and couchant
upon the premises, and, commonable cattle.' On demurrer for
duplicity, it was objected that there were three distinct facts
put. in issue by this replication, any one of which would be
sufficient by itself; but the court held that the point of the
defence was that the cattle in question were entitled to common.; that this point was single, though it involved the three
several facts that the cattle were the defendant's own, that they
were levant and couchant, and that they were commonable
cattle; that the replication traversing these facts, in effect,
therefore, only brought in issue the single point whether the
cattle were entitled to common, and was, . consequently, not
open to the objection of duplicity.'
. The rule itself was neatly declared by Lord Mansficld,
who says :t "It is true you must take issue upon a single
point, but it is not necessary that this single point should
consist of a single fact." It received application stronger
than any we ask for in the late English case of Selby v. Bardons.$ The action was replevin. The defendants avowed
the taking; Bardons as collector of the rates, and the other
defendant as his bailiff The avowry alleged that the plaintiff. was an inhabitant of the parish, and ratable in respect
of his occupancy of a certain tenement: it then alleged the
making of a rate, publication thereof, demand of payment
* Stephen on Pleading, 298 (5th Lond. ed. 1843).
t Robinson v. Rayley, 1 Burrow, 816.
: 8 Barnewall & Adolphus 2; affirmed in the Exchequer Chamber, A
Tyrwhitt, 480.

CLEkRWATER V.

'MFREDITH.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in support of replicati ,n.

and refusal, summons of the plaintiffbefore the petty sessions,
judgment against him, warrant of distress, &c. The plaintiff pleaded in bar, de injuria, &c.; to which the defendant
demurred, for that the plea tendered issue of several distinct
matters. But Parke, J., says:
"It is true that these pleas in bar put in issue a great number
of distinct facts, and it is also true that the general rule is that
where any pleading comprises several traversable facts or
allegations, the whole ought not to be denied together, but one
point alone disputed; and I am fully sensible that the tendency
of such a rule is to simplify the trial of matters of fact, and to
save much expense in litigation. But it is quite clear that from
a very early period in the history of the law, an exception to
this general rule has been allowed with respect to all actions of
trespass on the case, in the plea of the general issue, and with
respect to some actions of tort in the replication de injuria sua
propria absque tali causa. This replication, where it is without
doubt admissible, generally-indeed, it may be said, alwaysputs in issue more than one fact, and often a great number."
Other cases illustrate the distinction.*
2. Does the replication traversematter of law ? These parties
did not bargain with each other upon a question of names,
but upon a matter of values. Assuming the consolidated
company to be a corporation-a matter which we speak of
hereafter-it was the, successor, in law, of the Short Line
Railway, and bound by the contracts of that company as if
no consolidation had occurred.t So complete would be the
identity, in such a case, that an action of covenant might be
maintained against the new company, by name, upon a deed
sealed with the corporate seal of any one of its constituent
bodies.1 The mere fact of consolidation, therefore, with or
without the plaintiff's consent, is not material to the performance of this agreement on the part of the defendants.
* O'Brien -v.
Saxon, 2 Barnewall & Creswell, 908; Isaac v.Farrar, 1 Meeson
& Welsby, 69.
t Lancashire Railway Co. v. East Lancashire Railway Co., 5 Clark, 792
1 Philadelphia Railroad Co. v. Howard, 13 Howard, 838.

Dec. 1863.]

CLEARWATER V. MEREDITH.

Argument in support of replication.

It may be that the Short Line Railway Company acquired,
by means of it, additional property, or facilities of some
other description for enhancing the value of its stock. So,
on the other hand, the consolidation may have involved its
affairs in ruin. This, however, is a question of fact, to be
tried by a jury, and upon evidence. The plaintiff took issue
in regard to. it; but he was not allowed any trial of that
issue. And so it stands upon record, as the judgment of
the Circuit Court in this case, that (although the stock of
the Short Line Railway was not destroyed, "either in whole
or in part," by means of consolidation, as alleged in the
plea) the defendants are excused, nevertheless, from performing their contract.
3. But a new point arises. The question is not only as
to the sufficiency of our replication. A demurrer being put
on the pleadings it searches the record. The first bad piece
of pleading will be laid hold of, and judgment given on it.
Now does the-plea to which we have replied, itself put in a
sufficient defence? The fifth plea does not allege that a new
"1corporation" was created by the consolidation of the Short
Line Railway Company with either or both of the other
companies named, but that "one JOINT STOCK company" was
formed by union of the three. And the statute of Indiana,
authorizing consolidation, uses that peculiar language.*
Upon the other hand, the general act of -May 11th, 1852,
under which as well the Short Line Railway Company aa
both the other companies mentioned in the plea were formed,
declares that the companies formed under it shall be "corporations" in the proper sense. These two statutes show,
therefore, that the Legislature of Indiana intended to express
the difference between a joint-stock company (as such) and:
a corporation. It is not only a difference well established,
but peculiarly significant in this connection.t The old corporation, therefore, was not drowned, dissolved, nor otherwise destroyed. Decisions of the Supreme Court of Indiana
* See ante, Statement, p. 26.
t Warner v. Beers, 23 'Wendell, 103; Simpson v. Denison, 16 Jurist, 828.

CLEARWATER V. MEREDITH.

[Sup. Ct

Argument in support of replication.

favor, perhaps, this view.* Perkins, J., in the case of Booe v.
The Junction -RailroadCo.,t says, speaking of the point before
him:
"The question is, Whether two railroad companies, by consent
of the legislature, granted subsequently to the subscriptions of
stock, but without the consent of the stockholders, can consolidate their separate existences into one? It is admitted that
they can do it with such consent. This court has held that they
cannot without. A stockholder, not consenting, may withdraw
from the corporation. Such consolidation does not necessarilyDIsSOLVE the corporation,it seems, but releases non-consenting stock
holders,?"
The act of February 23d, 1853, does not specify the men.
ner in which two companies may consent to their consolida,
tion,-whether by a vote of the directors only, or of the
stockholders as well as of the directors. The plea does not
allege that Clearwater voted for the consolidation: and construing it, according to the rule of pleading, against the
party pleading it, we may assume that his alleged" consent"
consisted in the fact that he did not withdraw and renounce
the character of a stockholder.
4. But there is another answer. The act of February 23,
1853, was in force when Clearwater made his agreement
with the defendants. He was not, therefore, a stockholder
entitled to the privilege of withdrawing in the event of consolidation: he had subscribed in view of the possibility of
such an event, and that possibility was one of the elements
of his contract.t This view, supported by English authorities and authorities elsewhere than in Indiana, receives support in Indiana itself. Perkins, J., in the already cited case
of Booe v. Junction 1?ailroad Co.,§ raises the question which
* McCray v. Junction Railroad Co., 9 Indiana, 858; Carlisle v. Terre
Haute Railroad Co., 6 Id. 816.
10 Indiana, 93.
M
Midland Railway Co. v. Gordon, 16 Meeson & Welsby, 804; South Bay
Meadow Dam Co. v. Gray, S0 Maine, 5-7; Burlington, &c., Railroad Co. w.
White, 6 Iowa, 409.
10 Indiana, 93.

Dec. 1863.]

CLEARWATER V. MEREDITH.

33

Argument in support of demurrer.

we have already stated, to wit: " Whether two railroad companies, by consent of the legislature, granted subsequently to
the subscriptions of stock, but without the consent of the
atockholders, can consolidate their separate existences into
one ?" He makes the question in view of a previous Indiana
case,* which decides that onewho subscribes after the en'act
ment of a law authorizing the company to consolidate, is
bound by his subscription, although such consolidation be
without his consent or even his knowledge. And are not
the principles lately declared by this court, in Sherman v.
Snith,t conclusive; especinlly when we consider that the
Short Line Railway Company was formed under the general
act of May 11th, 1852, relating to railroads,-an act subject
to modification by the legislatures at any time?
Yet more: The plea does not allege that the consolidation
of the Short Line Railway Company with the second or with
the third company, was an act done without the consent, or
even contrary to the wishes, of the defendants. The defendants do not allege that the plaintiff discharged them intentionally, or even directly, from their agreement; but only
that in consequence of an act to which he assented,-not foreseeing or imagining the result,-performance of their stipulation was prevented. Now, if they assented to the same act,
and, dfortiori, if they induced him to assent, with what justice
or by what principle of law could they so excuse themselves?
[The counsel further brought before the court the two
replications filed previously to that one which was the subject
of the preceding discussion before this tribunal; which previous ones, demurred to below by the other side, had been
there in fact supplied by the one now considered. He also
contended, that even if his last replication was bad, he was
still entitled to judgment because the first and fourth pleas
were yet undisposed of.]
Mr. Hendricks, contra. There are in fact three causes of
demurrer to the replication:
1st. The plea sets up the traversable facts of the consoliSparrow v. Evansville, &e., Railroad, 7 Indiana, 869.
VOL. 1.

8

t 1 Black, 587.

CLEARWATER -.

MEREDITH.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in support of demurrer.

dation of the stock of the Short Line Railroad Company with
the stocks of other railway companies, which are the only
traversable facts in the plea which are neither admitted nor
denied by a replication.
2d. The plea sets up the consolidations of the stocks therein
described, with the consent of the plaintiff, either of which,
if correct, is an issuable fact, and the replication is a denial
of both, and is therefore double.
3d. The replication is informal, inasmuch as it does not
deny some one of the "issuable facts set up in the plea."
If the replication puts in issue only the question whether
the stock was destroyed and rendered worthless, then it
presents an issue that cannot decide the controversy; "an
immaterial issue;" for if the stock was merged with the
stock of other companies, and thereby made to represent
another interest and a different propefty, which the defendants had not agreed to guaranty, and that by the consent
of the plaintiff, then the defendants were discharged fiom
their contract, although the stock may not have been impaired in its value. By the two consolidations and mergers,
the $10,000 of stock in the Short Line Railroad Company
came to be 200 shares in the company finally formed; and
was evidence of an interest and property in that road of the
nominal value of $10,000,--a different corporation or company. The stock of such a company the defendants had not
agreed to guaranty; it was not within their contract; and
they were as well discharged whether the stock was still of
the same market value at Cincinnati, or became of no value
at all. The defence rests upon the consolidation and plaintiff's consent, thereby changing and merging the thing guarantied.
The plaintiff claims that his replication is a more general
traverse; and puts in issue, first, the consolidation of the
companies and the stock; second, the consent of the plaintiff; and third, that the stock was thereby rendered of no
value. Thus understanding the replication, it is double;
and for that reason the demurrer was properly sustained.
It is not claimed that the traverse must be of a single fact,

Dec. 1863.]

CLEARWATER V.

-ME-REDITH.

Argument in support of demurrer.

but that the traverse must be confined to a single point. The
difficlulty in practice is to determine what is a single point,
.w contradistinguished from a single fact. Gould* says:
"The meaning of the rule is, that when the pleading, on one
side, consists of several distinct and material points, all of which
are necessary to its legal sufficiency, the adverse party is allowed
to traverse only one of them. For'in every such case, a denial
of one of them is in law a sufficient answer to the whole; and he
may traverse which of them he pleases ;" and to illustrate, he
says: "If therefore, in trespass for false imprisonment, the
defendant justifies under a capias directed to the sheriff, and a
warrant from the sheriff directed to himself, the plaintiff may
traverse either the capias or the warrant, but should not traverse
both. For the denial of either of them is a sufficient answer to
the plea; since the capias, without the warrant, or the warrant,
without the capias, would be no justification; and the traverse
of both would, in effect, tender two issues instead of one, upon
one and the same plea."
The case given by Stephen, and cited by Mr. Pugh, is
considered by Gould.t He says:
"Of this ease it may be observed, that the defence to which
the traverse applied consisted of three distinct points.
"1. The existence of a prescriptive right of common.
"2. The defendant's title to share in that right, as tenant of a
manor or lordship.
"8. That the particular beasts in question were entitled to comMon.
"The replication applied to the last point only, viz., that the
beasts were entitled to common. But to entitle them to common,
in the defendant's right, they must have been, as alleged in the
plea, his own cattle-and also levant and couchant on his tenement-and commonable cattle.
"These last three facts, therefore, the plaintiff precisely traversed, and the court held that the traverse was not double, inasmuch as it embraced only the sin e point that the cattle were
entitled to common."
Gould's Pleading, chap. vii,
t Chap. vii,

52.

49 and 50.

CLEARWATER V.

MEREDITH.

[Slip. Ct.

Argument in support of demurrer.

But the facts stated in the plea here do not go to make
but one point; they make two material points. 1st, the
consolidation of the stock; and 2d, the plaintiff's consem
thereto-but both points necessary to "the legal suflicidnc3
of the plea"-both points constituting but one defence.
Aptly illustrative is the analogous case, "if the defendant
pleads title in a stranger, and justifies as servant to the
latter, and by his command, the plaintiff may traverse the
title, or the command, but should not traverse both."* The
court, in the instance cited, allowed a traverse either of the
title in the stranger, or his command to his servant, but not
both; and so in this case, the traverse was allowed of the
consolidation of the stock, or of the plaintiff's authority or
consent, but not both.
In one New York case,t it was held "that a plea that the
promise declared on was made by defendants and a third
person jointly, and that plaintiff had released the third party,
a reply denying the joint promise and the release was bad
for duplicity." In another case in that State,. that "where
to a plea of the statute of limitations the plaintiff replied
the suing out of process, and a promise within six years previous to such process, a rejoinder denying both the suing
out the process and the alleged promise, was bad for duplicity."
8. iBut it is said that the fifth plea is itself bad; offering
no defence.
What, then, is the defence made by it? It is that after the
contract was made and before the time limited for its execution, the plaintiff consented to a consolidation of the company with other companies, and the consolidation of the
stock of the different companies. How is it material whether,
under the laws of Indiana, a new "corporation," or a "jointstock company," was the result of the consolidation? The
stock was merged in either event: it became mingled; and
the identity and separate existence of the plaintiff's 200
* Gould's Pleading, chap. 7, 4 50; Crogate's case, 8 Co., 67 b.

t Tubbs v. Caswell & Pettit. 8 Wendell, 129.
$ Tuttle v. Smith, 10 Id., 888

Dec. 1863.]

CLEARWATER V. MEREDITIH.

Argument in support of demurrer.

shares became lost: the shares represented a new interest,
and different property. *Whether worth more or less in its
new form and position is not material, nor whether the new
organization increased or diminished the means for the
enterprise. Nor is it material, although discussed by plaintiff, whether the new organization is reponsible for the debts
of the old companies. But it is material that the plaintiff
did consent to a change of the subject of the contract, so
that it is no longer identified, nor the same property which
was guaranteed.
McMahan v. .orrison et al.* settles this question; for the
decision is upon the effect of the consolidations now before
this court; it is by the Supreme Court of Indiana, and upon
the statutes of that State. The court then held that, by the
consolidation of the Short Line R~ailroad Company with the
different roads referred to in the fifth plea, pursuant to the
.act of the legislature, the three corporations were dissolved,
and passed out of existence, and a new corporation came
into existencb, and that the new corporation came into existence "with property, liabilities, and stockholders, derived
from" the corporations that then passed out of existence.
The plaintiff claims, moreovex, that the plea is defective,
because it lacks the averment that the consolidation of the
railroads was an act done without the consent of the defendants. But how does that help him? Suppose the consolidation had been with the consent of both plaintiff and defendant, the effect would have been to rescind the contract, for
the reason that the contract was no longer applicable to the
new stock, and it would require a new contract to bind the
defendants.
But were this not so, and were it held that if the defendants consented to the consolidation, they would still be liable
on the contract; the fact of such consent is not a matter to
be negatived by defendants, but the plaintiffs should reply
that fact. It is a general rule of pleading that matter which
should come more properly from the other side, need not be
* 16 Indiana, 172. -

CLEARWATER V. MEREDITH.

LSuP '.

Opinion of the court.

stated. Each party makes out his own case. Neither is
bound to anticipate, and therefore neither is compelled to
notice and remove, every possible exception, answer, or objection which may exist.
It is insisted, however, inasmuch as the statute law of Indiana authorized railroads to be consolidated, that therefore
the defendants contracted with a view to a possible consolidation, and are bound by it. The authorities cited do not go
so far; they establish only the position that where the legislature has reserved the right to amend the charter, the subscribing stockholders, by the act of subscription under such
a charter, agree to such increased liabilities as the legislature may impose. It does not follow, however, that whoever
contracts with, a railroad company, or with a third party in
relation to railroad property or stock, is subject to have his
liabilities varied by any and all acts, which, according to
law, the company may do. Nor does such a principle exist.
The remaining points are feeble. The 1st and 2d replications were withdrawn below and cannot be reinstated here.
Neither is there any use of disposing of the 1st and 4th pleas:
since judgment in favor of the 5th, which is in bar to the
action, ends the case.
Mr. Justice DAVIS, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court:
In order to arrive at a correct solution of this question, it
is important to consider whether the plea is a good one, for a
demurrer, whenever interposed, reaches back through the
whole record, and "seizes hold of the first defective pleading." The plea in controversy confesses the original cause
of action, but sets up matter, which has arisen subsequent to
it, to avoid the obligation to perform it. It acknowledges
that the guaranty was given as claimed, but insists that the
consolidation of the interests and stock of the three railroad
companies necessarily destroyed and rendered worthless and
of no value the guaranteed stock, and that Clearwater having
consented to the transfer, is in no position to claim redress
from Meredith and his co-defendants.

Dec. 1863.]

CLEARWATER V. MEREDITH.

Opinion of the court.

If Clearwater was a consenting party to a proceeding which,
of itself, put it out of the power of the defendants to perform
their contract, he cannot recover, for "promisors will be discharged from all liability when the non-performance of their
obligation is caused by the act or the fault of the other contracting party." *
The Cincinnati, Cambridge and Chicago Short Line Railway Company, whose stock was guaranteed, was, as stated
in the pleadings, organized under a general act-of the State
of Indiana, providing for the incorporation of railroad companies. This act was passed May 11, 1852, and contained no
provision permitting railroad corporations to consolidate their
stock. It can readily be seen that the interests of the public,
as well as the perfection of the railway system, called for the
exercise of a power by which different lines of road could be
united. Accordingly, on the 28d February, 1853, the General Assembly of Indiana passed an act allowing any railway
company that had been organized, to intersect and unite their
road with any other road constructed or in progress of constrution, and to merge and consolidate their stock, and on
the 4th of March, 1853, the privileges of the act were extended
to railroad companies that should afterwards be organized.
The power of the legislature to confer such authbity cannot be questioned, and without the authority, railroad corporations organized separately, could not merge and consolidate
their interests. But in conferring the authority, the legislature never intended to compel a dissenting stockholder to
transfer his interest, because a majority of the stockholders
consented to the consolidation. Even if the legislature had
manifested an obvious purpose to do so, the act would have
been illogal, for it would have impaired the obligation of a
contract. There was no reservation of power in the act under
which the Cincinnati, Cambridge & Chicago Short Line Railway was organized, which gave authority to make material
changes in the purposes for which the corporation was created, and without such a reservation, in no event could a
dissenting stockholder be bound.
* 2 Parsons on Contracts, 188.

CLEARWATER V.

MEREDITH

Opinion of the court.

When any person takes stock in a railroad corporation,
he has entered into a contract with the compaby , thatiis
interests shall be subject to the -direction and £ontkdi ef the
proper authorities of the corporation to accomplish Mfa
object for which the company was organized. He does not
agree that the improvement to which he subscribed should
be changed in its purposes and character, at the will and
pleasure of a majority of the stockholders, so that new responsibilities, and it may be, new hazards, are added to the
original undertaking. He may be very willing to embark
in one enterprise, and unwilling to engage in another; to
assist in building a short line railway, and averse to risking
his money in one having a longer line of transit.
But it is not every unimportant change which would
work a dissolution of the contract. It must be such a
change that a new and diffirent business is superadded to
the original undertaking.* The act of the legislature of
Indiana allowing railroad corporations to merge and consolidate their stock, was an enabling act--was permissive,
not mandatory. It simply gave the consent of the legislature to whatever could lawfully be done, and which without that consent could not be done at all. By virtue of this
act, the consolidations in the plea stated were made. Clearwater, before the consolidation, was a stockholder in one
corporation, created for a given purpose; after it he was a
stockholder in another and different corporation, with other
privileges, powers, franchises, and stockholders. The effect
of the consolidation "was a dissolution of the three corporations, and at the same instant, the creation of a new
corporation, with property, liabilities, and stockholders, derived from those passing out of existence;" Mc.ahan v.
Morrison.t And the act of consolidation was not void because the State assented to it, but a non-consenting stockholder was dischargedt* Clearwater could have prevented
* The Hartford, &c., R. R. Co. v. Croswell, 5 Hill, 883; Banet v. The
Alton, &c., R. R., 13 Illinois, 510.
t 16 Indiana, 172.
Z McCray v. Junctiom Railroad Co., 9 Id. 858.

Dec. 1863.]

CLEARWATER V.

MEREDITH.

Opinion of the court.

this consolidation had he chosen to do so; instead of that
he gave his assent to it and merged his own stock in the
new adventure. If a majority of the stockholders of the
corporation of which he was a member had undertaken to
transfer his interest against his wish, they would have been
enjoined.* There was no power to force him to join the
new corporation, and to receive stock in it on the surrender
of his stock in the old company. By his own act he has
destroyed the stock to which the guaranty attached, and
made it impossible for the defendants to perform their agreement. After the act of consolidation the stock could not
have any separate, distinct market value. There was, in
fact, no longer any stock of the Cincinnati, Cambridge &
Chicago Short Line Railway.
Meredith and his co-defendants undertook that the stock
-should be at par in Cincinnati, if it maintained the same
separate and independent existence that it had when they
gave their guaranty. Their undertaking did not extend to
another stock, created afterwards, with which they had no
concern, and which might be better or worse than the one
guaranteed. It is not material whether the new stock was
worth more or less than the old. It is sufficient that it is
another stock, and represented other interests.
But it is said that the plea is defective because it does not
aver that the consolidation was an act done without the consent of the defendants. The pleadings do not aver that the
defendants were stockholders in any of the roads whose interests were merged, and if they were not, it is not easy to see
what right they had to interpose objections to consolidation,
nor how their consent was necessary to carry out the object
contemplated. If the plaintiff consented because they did,
and it is meant to be argued on that account, they would still
be liable on their contract; the answer is, that this is not a
matter to be negatived by the defendants, but the plaintiff
should reply the fact.t
* Laumoan v. Lebanon Valley Railroad, 80 Pennsylvania State, 46.

t I Chitty's Pleading, 222.

CLEARWATER V.

MEREDITH.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

It follows that the fifth plea presented a complete defence
in bar of the action.
In this plea there were two points, and two only, which
the plaintiff had the right to traverse. He could deny either
the act of consolidation, or that he gave his consent to it.
He could not deny both, for that would make his replication
double. And if either fact was untrue, the defence was
destroyed. The truth of both was essential to perfect the
defence. But traverse can only be taken on matter of fact,
and it is always inadmissible to tender an issue on mere
matter of law.*
The last replication does traverse a conclusion of law.
'Whether the stock of the Cincinnati, Cambridge & Chicago
Short Line Railway Company was destroyed and rendered
worthless and of no value, was not a question for a jury to
try. If the roads were consolidated, with the consent of the
plainti, then it followed, as a conclusion of law, that the
stock was destroyed and of no value. The stock passed out
of existence the very instant the new corporation was created.
The issue, therefore, tendered by the plaintiff in his last
replication, was an immaterial one, and the court did not err
in sustaining a demurrer to it.
But the plaintiff claims the right to have the decision of
the court below on the sufficiency of his previous replications
reviewed here. This he cannot do. Each replication in this
cause is complete in itself; does not refer to, and is not a
part of what precedes it, and is new pleading. When the
plaintiff replied de novo, after a demurrer was sustained to his
original replication, he waived any right he might have had,
to question the correctness of the decision of the court on the
demurrer. In like manner he abandoned his second repli-.
cation, when he availed himself of the leave of the court,
and filed a third and last one.
But the plaintiff insists that even if his replication was
bad, that still upon the whole record he was entitled to judgment, because the first and fourth pleas were undisposed of
* 1 Chitty's Pleading, 645.

Dec. 1863.]

COMMANDER-IN-CHIEF.

43

Opinion of tbh court.

If an issue in fact had been joined on the fifth plea, and found
for the defendants, judgment was inevitable for them, because
the plea was in bar of the action, and the other pleas would
then have presented immaterial issues. If the plea was true,
being a complete defence, it would have been useless to have
tried other issues, for no matter how they might terminate,
judgment must still be for the defendants. The state of
pleading leaves the fifth plea, precisely as if traverse had been
taken on a matter of fact in it, and determined against the
plaintiff. "On demurrer to any of the pleadings which go
to the action, the judgment for either party is the same as it
would have been on an issue in fact, joined upon the same
pleading and found in favor of the same party." (Gould's
Rleading, ch. ix, § 42.) "And when the defendants' plea goes
to bar the action,- if the plaintiff demur to it and the demurrer is determined in favor of the plea, judgment of nil
capiat should be entered, notwithstanding there may be also
one or more issues in fact; because, upon the whole, it appears that the plaintiff had no cause of action." (2Ydd's -Pra.
tice, 4th American Edition, 741-2.)
There is no error in the record.
JUDGMENT ATFIRMED WITH COSTS.

COMMANDER-IN-CHIEF.
1. Parties excepting to a report of a commissioner in admiralty proceedings, should state, with reasonable precision, the grounds of their exceptions, with the mention of such other particulars as will enable the court
to ascertain, without unreasonable examination of the record, what the
basis of the exception is. Ex. Gr. If the exception be that the commissioner received "improper and immaterial evidence," the exception
should show what the evidence was. If, that "he had no evidence to
justify his report," it should set forth what evidence he did have. If,
that "he admitted the evidence of witnesses who were not competent,"
it should give their names, and specify why they were incompetent,
what they swore to, and why their evidence ought to have been rejected.
2. This same necessity for specification it is declared-though the case was
not decided on that ground, the point not having been raised on argument-exists in a high degree in regard to an answer put in to an admi-

