Dec. 1863.] Ex PARTE DUBUQUE AND PACIFIC RAILROAD.

69

Statement of the case.

Ex

PAATE DUBUQUE AND PACIFIC RAILROAD.

"hen this court, under the 24th section of the Judiciary Act, reverses a
judgment on a case stated and brought here on error, remanding the
case, with a mandate to the court below to enter judgment for the
defendant, the court below has no authority but to execute the mandate,
and it is final in that court. Hence such court cannot, after entering
the judgment, hear affidavits or testimony and grant a rule for a newtrial; and if it does grant such rule, a mandamus will issue from this
court ordering it to vacate the rule.

LITCHFIELD sued the Dubuque and Pacific Railroad Company, in the District Court of the United States for the
District of Iowa, for a tract of land in that district The
cause of action was set forth by petition, according to the
mode of proceedings prescribed by the code of Iowa. It
alleged that the plaintiff had a title in fee, and the right of
possession; which land was withheld from him by the defendant, who was in possession. The answer of the defendant
denied that the plaintiff had any title to the premises sued
for. On this issue the parties went to trial before the District Court, at October Term, 1859. The court found, and
entered judgment, that the [plaintiff had right to the land
claimed, and the right of possession thereof The facts had
been agreed on in writing, and filed on stipulation, in the
District Court, on which agreed statement the finding andjudgment proceeded. On the facts thus presented to the court
below, the cause was brought to this court by writ of error,
was re-examined, and after an elaborate opinion, reported
among the decisions of December Term, 1859, the judgment below was reversed; and it was ordered that the i)istrict
Court enter judgment for the defendant below.*
A mandate went down, and was entered of record, and
the District Court entered judgment that the plaintiff Litchfield had no title, and that he pay costs. This was done at
October Term, 1861, and immediately thereafter (affidavits of
ability to show new facts having been fied) a new trial was
moved for on behalf of Litchfield, and granted by the court. To
* See Dubuque and Pacific Railroad v. Litchfield, 23 Howard, 66.

70

Ex PARTE DUnUQUE AND PACIFIC RAILROAD.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument against the motion.

this step the railroad company excepted, and it now moved
for a writ of mandamus commanding the court below to
vacate the order granting the new trial.*
Mr. Mason against the motion: The judgment having been
entered in the court below, became its judgment, possessing
the same qualities as if it had been originally entered there.
One of these qualities or incidents was, that it was liable to
be vacated, and a new trial granted, in a proper case, in the
discretion of the court below; a discretion with which this
court will not interfere, as it has declared in many cases, and
notably in ,berly v. 3oore.t
1. This power and duty exists under the Judiciary Act
of 1789. The court in the case just cited says: "The jurisdiction has been conferred by acts of Congress upon the courts
of the United States, so to supervise the various steps in a
cause as to prevent hardship and injustice, and that the
merits of a cause may be fairly tried. It has been uniformly
held in this court that a Circuit Court could not be controlled in the exercise of the discretion thus conceded to it."
2. It exists, also, under the statute of Iowa; which by
the Judiciary Act of 17891 is the "rule of decisions in
trials at common law." Courts in Iowa are compelled to
grant new trials, on cause shown, on the application of a
party, for any "cause affecting materially the substantial
rights of such party," specified in the law; in which case,
the "former report, verdict, or decision, shall be vacated, and a
new trialgranted."ยง It is to be presumed that the court had
grounds which justified it in granting as it did the new trial
under the above provisions.
In actions for the recovery of real property in Iowa, under
its code a new trial may be granted, without any cause being
shown, in the discretion of the court, on application within
* The parties had stipulated that no rule should be required on the Circuit
Court where the cause now was by transfer, to show cause why a peremptory mandamus should not issue as prayed for in the petition, if this court
could rightfully order the writ.
1 J 34.
J Code, Revision of 1860, 3, 112.
t 24 Howard, 147.

Dec. 1863.] Ex PARTE DUBUQUE AND PAcric RAILROAD.

71

Argument in favor of the motion.

two years after the determination of the former trial.*
And this may be after the fiist judgment has been executed; for the code authorizes a writ of restitution to restore
the possession of the property to the party who shall succeed
on the new triaLt
Of course the court below canxiot, directly or indirectly,
question, or attempt to overthrow the law as settled by the
judgment of this court. But the plaintiff submits that this
court will not interfere with the allowance of a new trial,
where he can prove facts upon which his rights depend, and
where the affidavits show that, without fault on his part, the
merits of the cause have not been fairly tried; which showing he
assumes is proved, or must, from the fact of a new trial
having been allowed, be here presumed.
Mr. PlattSmith contra: There are no new facts. Admitting
that the plaintiff can prove all his affidavits, we assert that he
does but make out the old case stated; and on which this
court, after patient hearing, has ordered a judgment to be
entered below.
When the case was brought by appeal to this court, the
whole case was removed from the court below. When it
was remanded, the court below could only take jurisdiction
for the specific purpose of executing the judgment of this
court, in accordance with the mandate and opinion. The
24th section of the Judiciary Act of 1789 enacts, that on
reversals in this court, the court "shall proceed to render
such judgment or pass such decree as the District Court
should have passed, except where the reversal is in favor of
the plaintiff, or petitioner; and the damages to be assessed or
matter to be decreed are uncertain; in which case they shall
remand the cause for final decision." The statute of Iowa,
authorizing new trials, does not apply to cases that have
been removed to this court by writ of error or appeal, and
remanded to the court below for the mere purpose of execution. In .Ex parte Sibbaldt this court says: "When the
Supreme Court have executed their power in a cause before
-Id.

J 8, 584.

t Id. 8, 588.

1 12 Peters, 492.

72

Ex PARTE DUBUQUE AND PACiFic RAILROAD.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in favor of the motion.

them, and their final decree or judgment requires some
further act to be done, it cannot issue an execution, but
shall send a special mandate to the court below to award it.
Whatever was before the court, and is disposed of, is considered as finally settled. The inferior court is bound by
the decree as the law of. the case; and must carry it into
execution, according to the mandate. They cannot vary it,
or examine it for any other purpose than execution; or give
any other or further relief; or review it upon any matter
decided on appeal for error apparent; or intermeddle with
it, further than to settle so much as has been remanded.
After a mandate, no rehearing will be granted. It is never
done in the House of Lords; and on a subsequent appeal,
nothing is brought up but the proceeding subsequent to the
mandate. If the special mandate directed by the 24th section is not obeyed or executed, then the general power given
to 'all the courts of the United States to issue any writs
which are necessary for the exercise of their respective
jurisdictions, and agreeable to the principles and usages of
law,' by the 14th section of the Judiciary Act, fairly arises,
and a mandamus or other appropriate writ will go."
The court below treats the case as though it had never
been removed. But the judgment of that court is reversed
and held for nought. The District Court does not pretend
to overturn its own original judgment; that was, in the
opinion of that court, all right,-it was in favor of the plainThis court overturned that judgment, and ordered the
tif:"
District Court to enter judgment for the defendant. The
District Court reversed and set aside the judgment of this
court, and seeks to re-establish its original judgment. If the
facts of the case required another trial, this court would have
issued an order for a trial de novo in the court below; a
peremptory mandate to enter judgment for the defendant is
quite another thing.
Mr. Justice CATROiN, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court; Mr. Justice MILLER, who had been
of counsel in the case, not sitting in it here.

Dec. 1863.1

ORCHARID V.

HUGHES.

Opinion of the court.

In granting the new trial the District Court seems to have
been governed by two reasons: -First,because the statutes
of Iowa prescribed that a second trial may be had of course,
in actions brought for the recovery of real estate; and
Secondly, because the court below had the power, after the
cause was presented there by a mandate from this court and
the judgment of reversal entered, to hold that the cause stood
on the same footing that it would have done, had the District Court entered the judgment for the defendant before
the cause was brought up to this court. And in that case it
is true the District Court could have granted a new trial at
its discretion.
The 24th section of the Judiciary Act of 1789 governs the
practice in cases brought up and reviewed in this court. It
is bound to give such judgment as the court below ought to
have given, and the law directs that a mandate shall be sent
down to have the judgment entered as final in the lower
courts, when it is for the defendant below, as here. The
District Court had no power to set aside the judgment of the
Supreme Court, its authority extending only to executing
the mandate.*
We order that a writ of mandamus do issue to the Circuit
Court of the District of Iowa, commanding it to vacate and
erase the order granting a new trial in the aforesaid cause;
and that a judgment be entered in conformity to the mandate
of this court.
ORDER ACCORDINGLY.

ORCHARD V. HUGHES.

Id. v. Id.
I. It is no defence to a suit for debt that the debt arose from the receipt of
the bills of a bank that was chartered illegally and for fraudulent purposes, and that the bills were void in law, and finally proved worthless
in fact; the bills themselves having been actually current at the time
the defendant received them, and they not having proved worthless in
his hands, nor he being bound to take them back from persons to whom
he had paid them away.

* Ex parte Sibbald, 12 Peters, 492.

