Dec. 1863.]

BALDWIN

V.

HALE.

223

Statement of the ase.
I. It is claimedthat the contract is for the borrowing of money,
and that the complaint is bad, because it does not aver the sanction of two-thirds of the electors of the city. If the fact were
so, the consequence would not follow. If the city could make
such a contract with that sanction, the sanction will be presumed
until the contrary is shown. The non-existence of the fact is a
matter of defence which must be shown by the defendant.
ii. We are also of the opinion that the contract, except the
provision for an advance to the city of $20,000, which it is stated
has been repaid, is not for borrowing money. It bound the
plaintiffs to pay the interest for the city upon the debts of the
city already created and presumed to be valid. The city agreed
to refund the amount, so paid- at the times and in the manner
specified. Such a-contract is neither within the terms nor the
spirit of the provisions of the charter upon the subject of borrowing.
JUDGMENT REVERSED AND CAUSE REMANDED.

N. B. The dissenting opinion of Mr. Justice Miller, given in the principal
case, No. 80, applied to Nos. 79 and 81. See also the dissenting opinion of
that Justice in Aeyer v. City of Muscatine (p7 st), as well as that case generally.

BALDWIN V. HALE.
A discharge obtained under the insolvent law of one State is not a bar to an
action on a note given in and payable in the same State; the party to
whom the note was given having'been and being of a different State,
and not having proved his debt against the defendant's estate in insolvency, nor in any manner been a party to those proceedings.

THIS was a writ of error to the Circuit Court for the District of Massachusetts; the case, as appearing from an agreed
statement of facts, being thus:
J. W. Baldwin, a citizen of Massachusetts, made, at Boston, in that State, his promissory note, payable there, in these
words:
$2000.
BOsTON, February 21, 1854.
Six months after date I promise to pay to the order of myself, two
;housand dollars, payable in Boston, value received.
J. W. B.LDwix.
And duly indorsed it to Hale, the plaintiff, then and afterwards a citizen of Vermont. After the date of the note, but

.BALDWIN V). -H=ALE.

[Sup. C

Argument for the discharge.

before any suit was brought upon it, Baldwin, upon due proceedings in the Court of Insolvency of the State of Massachusetts, obtained a certificate of discharge fi-om his debts;
the certificate embracing by its terms all contracts to be performed within the State of Massachusetts. Hale did not
prove his debt, nor take any part in the proceedings.
Suit having been afterwards brought against Baldwin by
Hale, the indorsee and holder of the note, and still, as originally, a citizen of Vermont, the question was whether the certificate was a bar to the action.
The court below ruled that it was not, and the correctness
of the ruling was now before this court on error.
Messrs. Hutchins &' Wheeler for the plaintfff in error: It is
settled that State insolvent laws not operating retrospectively
(such being the character of those under which the discharge
here pleaded was granted), do not fall within the constitutional prohibition against the violation of contracts. Otherwise such State insolvent laws would not have been held valid
and binding as between the citizens of the States enacting
them, as they have been ever since Ogden v. Saunders.* The
law, then, under which the discharge here pleaded was
granted, possesses all the validity and force which the State
of Massachusetts, with uncontrolled power of legislation 6n
the subject and in the absence of any constitutional restraint,
could impart to it. We do not suggest that this or any State
law relating to property possesses extra-territorial force: the
legislative sovereignty of each State is confined to its limits.
Beyond these the laws of some other local jurisdiction prevail.
The question, then, presented for decision, being not one of
..oastitutional law, but rather of public or international law,
we set out with the principle, well settled, that contracts take
their legal construction and validity or invalidity from the
"law of the Place" to which they belong; including, under
this term, both the place of origin and of execution, where
*

12 Wheatnn, 279.

Dec. 186t".]

BALuIN V. HALE.
Argument for the discharge.

they are not the same. We do not find that contracts as such
take any attribute from the circumstance that the domicile or
allegiance of the contracting parties is different, unless they
are alien enemies.
When the place both of the origin and the execution of
the contract is the same, then the contract is to be governed
wholly by the law of that place.*
Upon the same principle, it is held that a contract discharged by the law of the place which governs it, is discharged
everywhere; and conversely, a contract not discharged by
the law of that place, is nowhere discharged.t
It seems, therefore, that where, as here, the contract, the
discharge, and the party pleading it, come wholly under and
within the same jurisdiction, all the conditions necessary to
subject the contract to the law of that jurisdiction exist,-so
that the discharge should be deemed effectual in bar of any
action upon it. And upon this state of facts the Supreme
Court of Massachusetts, while announcing their purpose to
follow, strictly, decisions by this court of constitutional questions, have yet held such a discharge as was here given to be
a good defence in a suit brought by a non-resident creditor.
They say in S'ribner et aL. v. sher,t that the question raised
here in the case at bar, has never been passed on by the court
at all. The judgment below must therefore be reversed,
unless this court should overrule the doctrine of the Massachusetts case, and determine that it is in conflict with its own
decisions, and it cannot do this without contradicting at the
same time the declaration to the contrary of the Massachusetts court itself
Ogden v. Saunders, which will be relied on by the other
side, settled, no doubt, that the insolvent laws of the State of
the origin of a contract, are not competent to discharge a,
contract when entered into by one of its citizens with a citii Cox v. United States, 6 Peters, 172; Strother v. Lucas, 12 Id., 436-7;
&ndrews v. Pind, 13 Id., 77; Bell v. Bruen, 1 Howard, 182.
t May v. Breed, 7 Cushing, 38; Van Reimsdyk v. Kane, 1 GaflisoD,
375; Very - McHenry, 29 Maine, 200; Green v. Sarmiento, 1 Peters's 0.
1 2 Gray, 43.
C., 74.
VOL. I.

15

BALDWIN V. HALE.

[Sup. Ct

Argument against the discharge.

zen of another State, where no place of performance is fixed,
otherwise than by the origin of the contract;but that case did not
make the citizenship of the contracting parties, instead of the
law of the contract itself, the test for determining whether
it was liable to be defeated by a discharge in insolvency.
To have done so, would have been to establish a test of the
legal obligation of contracts hitherto unknown to the law.
We admit that some influence might, in the absence of
authority to the contrary, be ascribed to the fact of the foreign domicile of a creditor, but not that such influence can
be exerted over the contract, where no locus is given to it by
the parties themselves. It fails altogether as a test, where
the parties contract with the express reference to a place of
performance, and embody this provision in the contract, as
was done by the parties in the case at bar.
MZlr. F. A. Brooks for the creditor, Hale: It is not contended
that this note would have been barred by the discharge (it
being given by a citizen of Massachusetts to a citizen of
Vermont), had it not been payable in Massachusetts; but it is
said that this makes it a Massachusetts contract, and subjects
the claim to the operation of the insolvent laws of that State,
although given to a citizen of Vermont. But this question
has been decided. It is not the question where the note is
payable or where it is dated, but whether the contract is between a citizen of Massachusetts and of Vermont, and if so,
an insolvent law of Massachusetts cannot discharge it. It
is a question of citizenship. Many cases decide this.* The
Massachusetts case of Scribner v. Fishert is opposed; but
we submit that the case is not law. Metcalf, J., dissented,
and the true view we conceive is contained in his opinion.
* Sturges v. Crowninshield, 4 Wheaton, 122; McMillan v. McNeil, 4
Id., 209; Ogden v. Saunders, 12 Id., 279; Boyle v. Zacharie, 6 Peters, 348;
Suydam et al. v. Broadrax, 14 Id., 75; Springer v. Foster et al., 2 Story
383; Cook v. Moffat et al., 5 Howard, 308; Donnelly v. Corbett, 3 Selden
500; Poe v. Duck, 5 Maryland, 1; Anderson v. Wheeler, 25 Connecticut,
607; Felch v. Bugbee et al., 48 Mai.ne, 9.
f 2 Gray, 43.

Dec. 1863.]

13ALDWIn V. HALE.
Opinion of the court.

An insolvent law of one State cannot discharge the contracts
of citizens of other States, because it has no jurisdiction over,
the citizens of other States. It has no authority to issue
notice or process, or in any way to bind the citizens of other
States by its proceedings. Its laws can have no extra-territorial operation.* A citizen of Vermont, by making his note
payable in Massachusetts, does not thereby subject himself
to the jurisdiction of Massachusetts laws. Even presentment at the place appointed for payment is not necessary to
charge a maker of a note.t
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD, after stating the case, delivered
the opinion of the court:
Contract was made in Boston and was to be performed at
the place where it was made, and upon that ground it is
contended by the defendant that the certificate of discharge
is a complete bar to the action. But the case shows that
the plaintiff was a citizen of Vermont, and inasmuch as he
did not prove his debt against the defendant's estate in insolvency, nor in any manner become a party to those proceedings, he insists that the certificate of discharge is a
matter inter alios, and wholly insufficient to support the
defence.
Adopting the views of the court in Scribner et aL. v. Fisher,
2 Gray, 43, the defendant concedes that the law is so, as
between citizens of different- States, except in cases where it
appears by the terms of the contract that it was made and
must be performed in the State enacting such insolvent law.
Where the contract was made and is by its terms to be performed in the State in which the certificate of discharge was
obtained, the argument is, that the discharge is entirely consistent with the contract, and that the certificate operates as
a bar to the right of recovery everywhere, irrespective of the
citizenship of the promisee. Plaintiff admits that a majority
* Ogden v. Saunders, 12 Wheaton, 213; per Washington, J., and per
Johnson, J.; second opinion. Baker v. Wheaton, 5 Massachusetts, 509.
t Wallace v. McConnell, 13 Peters, 136; S.C. 1 American Leading Cases,
4th ed, 348.

BALDWIN V. HALE.

[Sup. C%:

Opinion of the court.

of the Supreme Court of Massachusetts, in the case referred
to, attempted to maintain that distinction, but he insists
that it is without any foundation in principle, and that the
decisions of this court in analogous cases are directly the
other way.
Contr)versies involving the constitutional effect and operation of State insolvent laws have fiequently been under
consideration in this court, and unless it be claimed that
constitutional questions must always remain open, it must
be conceded, we think, that there are some things connected
with the general subject that ought to be regarded as settled
and forever closed.
State legislatures have authority to pass a bankrupt or
insolvent law, provided there be no act of Congress in force
establishing a uniform system of bankruptcy, conflicting
with such law; and, provided the law itself be so framed
that it does not impair the obligation of contracts. Such
was the decision of this court in Sturges v. Crowninshield, 4
Wheat., 122, and the authority of that decision has never
been successfully questioned. Suit was brought in that case
against the defendant as the maker of two promissory notes.
They were both dated at New York, on the 22d day of March,
1811, and the defendant pleaded his discharge under an act
for the benefit of insolvent debtors and their creditors, passed
by the legislature of New York subsequently to the date of
the notes in controversy. Contracts in that case, it will be
observed, were made prior to the passage of the law, and
the court held, for that reason, that the law, or that feature
of it, was unconstitutional and void, as impairing the obligation of contracts within the meaning of the Constitution
of the United States. Suggestion is made that the ruling
of the court in the case of lfclfillan v. .Mchcill, 4 Wheat.,
209, decided at the same term, asserts a different doctrine,
but we think not, if the facts of the case are properly under,itood.
Recurring to the statement of the case, it appears that the
contract was made in Charleston, in the State of South Carolina, and it is true that both parties resided there at the time

Dec. 1863.]

BALDWIN v. ]HAL-E.
Opinion of the court.

the contract was made, but the defendant subsequently removed to New Orleans, in the State of Louisiana, and it was
in the latter State where he obtained the certificate of discharge from his debts. He was also one of a firm doing
business in Liverpool, and a commission of bankraptcy had
been issued there, both against him and his partner, and they
respectively obtained certificates of discharge. Suit- was
brought in the District Court for the District of Louisiana,
and the defendant pleaded those certificates of discharge in
bar of the action, and the plaintiff demurred to the plea.
Under that state of the case and of the pleadings, the court
held that the certificate of discharge obtained in the State
of Louisiana, was no defence to the suit, and very properly
remarked that the circumstance that the State law was passed
before the debt was contracted made no difference in the
application of the principle. Bearing in mind that the plain,
tiff was a citizen of South Carolina, and that the contract
was made there, it is obvious that the remark of the court is
entirely consistent with the decision in the former case.
Secondly, the court also held that a discharge under a
foreign bankrupt law was no bar to an action in the courts
of the United States, on a contract made in this country.
Speaking of that case, Mr. Justice Johnson afterwards remarked that it decided nothing more than that insolvent laws
have no extra-territorial operation upon the contracts of other
States, and that the anterior or posterior character of the law
with reference to the date of the contract makes no difference in the application of that principle. Eight years hater
the question, in all its phases, was again presented to this
court, in the case of Ogden v. Saunders, 12 Wheat., 213, and
was very fully examined.
Three principal points were ruled by the court. First, the
court held that the power of Congrdss to establish uniform
laws on the subject of bankruptcies throughout the United
States did not exclude the right of the States to legislate on
the same subject, except when the power had actually been
exercised by Congress, and the State laws conflicted with
those of Congress. Secondly, that a bankrupt or insolven

BALDWIN V. HALE.

[Sup. C

Opinion of the court.

law of any State which discharges both the person of the
debtor and his future acquisitions of property, was not a law
impairing the obligation of contracts so far as respects debts
contracted subsequent to the passage of such law... Thirdly,
but that a certificate of discharge under such a law cannot be
pleaded in bar of an action brought by a citizen of another
State in the courts of the United States, or of any other State
than that where the discharge was obtained. Much diversity
of opinion, it must be admitted, existed among the members
of the court on that occasion, but it is clear that the conclusions to which the majority came were in precise accordance
with what had been substantially determined in the two
earlier cases to which reference has been made. Misapprehension existed, it seems, for a time, whether the second
opinion delivered by Mr. Justice Johnson in that case was,
in point of fact, the opinion of a majority of the court, but it
is difficult to see any ground for any such doubt. Referring
to the opinion, it will be seen that he states explicitly that he
is instructed to dispose of the cause, and he goes on to explain that the majority on the occasion is not the same as
that which determined the general question previously considered. Ample authority exists for regarding that opinion
as the opinion of the court, independently of what appears
in the published report of the case. When the subsequent
ease of Boyle v. Zacharie et al., 6 Pet., 848, was first called for
argument, inquiry was made of the court whether the opinion in question was adopted by the other judges who concurred in the judgment of the court. To which Marshall,
C.-J., replied, that the judges who were in the minority of
the court upon the general question concurred in that opinion, and that whatever principles -were established in that
opinion were to be considered no longer open for controversy,
but the settled law of the court. Judge Story delivered the
unanimous opinion of the court in that case during the same
session, and in the course of the opinion he repeated the explan ations previously given by the chief justice. Boyle v.
Zacharie et al., 6 Pet., 643. Explanations to the same effect
were also Yaade by the present chief justice in the case of

Dec. 1863.]

BAL.DWIN V. HALE.
Opinion of the court.

Cook v. Moffat et al., 5 How., 310, which had been ruled by
him at the circuit. He had ruled the case in the court below,
in obedience to what he understood to be the settled doctrine
of the court, and a majority of the court affirmed the judgment Acquiescing in that judgment as a correct exposition
of the law of the court, he nevertheless thought it proper to
restate the individual opinion which he entertained upon. the
subject, but before doing so, he gave a clear and satisfactory
exposition of what had previously been decided by the court.
Those remarks confirm what had at a much earlier period
been .fully explained by the former Chief Justice and his
learned associate. Taken together, these several explanations
ought to be regarded as final and conclusive. Assuming that
to be so, then, it was settled by this court, in that case,-1.
That the power given to the United States to pass bankrupt
laws is not exclusive. 2. That the fair and ordinary exercise of that power by the States does not necessarily involve
a violation of the obligation of contracts, multo fortiori of
posterior contracts. 3. But when in the exercise of that
power the States pass beyond their own limits and the rights
of their own citizens, and act upon the rights of citizens of
other States, there arises a conflict of sovereign power and a
collision with the judicial powers granted to the United
States, which renders the exercise of such a power incompatible with the rights of other States, and with the Constitution of the United States. Saunders, a citizen of Kentucky,
brought suit in that case against Ogden, who was a citizen
of Louisiana at the time the suit was brought. Plaintiff declared upon certain bills of exchange drawn by one Jordan,
at Lexington, in the State of Kentucky, upon Ogden, the
defendant, in the city of New York, where he then resided.
He was then a citizen of the State of New York, and the
case shows that he accepted the bills of exchange at the city
of New York, and that they were subsequently protested for
non-payment.
Defendant pleaded his discharge under the insolvent law
of New York, passed prior to the date of the contract.- Evidently, therefore, the question presented was, whether a dis-

BALDWIN V. HAL..

[Sup. t

Opinion of the court.

-charge of a debtor under a State insolvent law was valid as
against a creditor or citizen of another State, who had not
subjected himself to the State laws otherwise than by the
origin of the contract, and the decision in express terms was,
that such a proceeding was " incompetent to discharge a debt
due a citizen of another State." Whenever the question has
been presented to this court since that opinion was pronounced, the answer has uniformly been that the question
depended upon citizenship. Such were the views of the
court in Suydam et al. v. Broadnax et al., 14 Pet., 75, where
it was expressly held that a certificate of discharge cannot
be pleaded in bar of an action brought by a citizen of another
State in the courts of the United States, or of any other
State than that where the discharge was obtained. Undoubtedly a State may pass a bankrupt or insolvent law under
the conditions before mentioned, and such a law is operative
and binding upon the citizens of the State, but we repeat
what the court said in Cook v. Moffat et al., 5 How., 308, that
such laws "can have no effect on contracts made before their
enactment, or beyond their territory." Judge Story says,
in the case of Springer v. Foster et al., 2 Story, C. C., 387, that
the settled doctrine of the Supreme Court is, that no State
insolvent laws can discharge the obligation of any contract
made in the State, except such contracts as are made between
citizens of that State. Re refers to the ease of Ogden v. Saunders to support the proposition, and remarks, without qualification, that the doctrine of that case was subsequently
affirmed in Boyle v. Zacharie,where there was no division of
opinion. In the last-mentioned case he gave the opinion of
the court, and he there expressed substantially the same
views. Confirmation of the fact that such was his opinion
may be found both in his Commentaries on the Constitution
and in his treatise entitled Conflict of Laws. His view as
to the result of the various decisions of this court is, that
they establish the following propositions: 1. That State insc.lvent laws may apply to all contracts within the State between citizens of the State. 2. That they do not apply to
contracts made within the State between a citizen of the

-Dec. 1863.]

BALDWIN V. HALE.
Opinion of the court.

State and a citizen of another State.. 3. That they do not
apply to contracts not made within the State: 2 Story on
Const., sec. 1390 (3d edition), p. 281; Story on Conft. L., sec.
84I, p. 573.
Chancellor Kent also says that the discharge under a State
law is not effectual as against a citizen of another State who
did not make himself a party to the proceedings under the
law. 2 Kent Con. (9th ed.), p. 503. All of the State courts,
or nearly all, except the Supreme Court of Massachusetts,
have adopted the same view of the subject, and that court
has recently held that a certificate of discharge in insolvency
is no bar to an action by a foreign corporation against the
payee of a note, who indorsed it to the corporation in blank
before its maturity, although the note itself was executed
and made payable in that State by a citizen of the State.
Repeated decisions have been made in that court, which
seem to support the same doctrine. Savoye v. Jlfarsh, 10 Met.,
594; Braynardv..larshall,8 Pick., 196. But a majority of the
court held, in Scribner et al. v. Fisher,2 Gray, 43, that if the
contract was to be performed in the State where the discharge was obtained, it was a good defence to an action on
the contract, although the plaintiff was a citizen of another
State and had not in any manner become a party to the proceedings. Irrespective of authority it would be difficult if
not impossible to sanction that doctrine.

Insolvent systems

of every kind partake of the character of a judicial investigation. Parties whose rights are to be affected are entitled
to be heard; and in order that they may enjoy that right
they must first be notified. Common justice requires that
no man shall be condemned in his person or property without notice and an opportunity to make his defence. NAtions
et al. v. Johnson et al., 24 How., 203; Boswells Lessee v. Otis et
al., 9 How., 350; Oakley v. Aspinwall, 4 Comst., 514.
Regarded merely in the light of principle, therefore, the
rule is one which could hardly be defended, as it is quite
evident that the courts of one State would have no power
to require the citizens of other States to become parties to
any su.h proceeding. Sitydam et al. v. Broadnax et al., 14

BALDWIN V. BANK OF NEWBURY.

[Sup. Ot

Statement of the case.

Pet., 75. But it is unnecessary to pursue the inquiry, as the
decisions of this court are directly the other way; and so are
most of the decisions of the State courts. Donnelly v. Cbrbett, 3 Seld., 500; Poe v. Duck, 5 Md., 1; Anderson v. Wheeler,
25 Conn., 607 ; Felch v. Bugbee et al., 48 Me., 9; Dcrerritv.
Exchange Bank, 10 Law Rep. (N. S.), 606; Woodhull v. Wagner, Bald., C. C., 800.
Insolvent laws of one State cannot discharge the contracts
of citizens of other States, because they have no extra-territorial operation, and consequently the tribunal sitting under
them, unless in cases where a citizen of such other State
voluntarily becomes a party to the proceeding, has no jurisdiction in the case. Legal notice cannot be given, and consequently there can be no obligation to appear, and of course
there can be no legal default. The judgment of the Circuit
Court is therefore affirmed with costs.
JUDGMENT ACCORDINGLY.

BALDWIN

v.

BANK OF NEWBURY.

The case of Baldwin v. Hale (ante,p. 223) affirmed.
Where negotiable paper is drawn to a person by name, with addition of
"Cashier" to his name, but with no designation of the particular bank
of which he was cashier, parol evidence is allowable to show that he
was the cashier of a bank which is plaintiff in the suit, and that in
taking the paper he was acting as cashier and agent of that corporation.

THE Bank of Newbury, a corporation, at the time of the
suit and now, established in Vermont, brought an action of
assumpsit in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Massachusetts district against Baldwin, upon a promissory
note made by him in Massachusetts, where he resided. The
following is a copy of the note. It was unindorsed:
$3500.
BOSTON, Dec. 9,1853.
Five months after date I promise to pay to the order of 0. C.Hale, Esq.,
Cashier, Thirty-five hundred dollars, payable at either bank in Boston, value
received.
J. W. BALLsIN.

