Dec. 1863.]

LEE V. W¥ATSON.
Statement of the case.

10th, 1854, which was more than a month after Gee filed his
claim and accompanying proofs. And to make it more evident that it is not an easy task to make an accurate description
of the lands really granted, we learn further that additional
lists were afterwards certified to the State, in aid of said
railroad, from time to time, and as late as the 1-5th of November, 1859.
It is contended that the legislature of Missouri had no
power to grant the privileges of pre-emption. If this was a
contest between the United States and the State of Missouri,
the question of power would be a proper subject for examination. But the United States are not complaining, and no
other party has a right to complain. If the act of the legislature imposed burdens, it nevertheless conferred great privileges, and if any right to object existed, it was waived
when the company filed their acceptance with the Secretary
of State.
It follows that the court below committed no error in
holding "that the location of the land in question by the
Hannibal and St. Joseph Railroad Company was not complete, as regards this defendant, until said company caused
a map thereof to be recorded in the office for recording deeds
in the county in which said land is situated.'"
JUDGMENT AFFIMED WITH COSTS.

LEE ET AL. V. WATSON.
When, to authorize the re-examination of a final judgment of the Cfrcuit
Court, the matter in dispute must exceed the sum or value of $2000,
that amount-if the action be upon a money demand and the general
issue be pleaded-must be stated both in the body of the declaration
and in the damages claimed, or the prayer for judgment. When the
amount alleged to be due in the body of the declaration is less than
$1000, an amendment merely in the matter of amount of damages
claimed, so as to exceed $2000, will not give jurisdiction to this court,
and enable it to review the final judgment in the ease.

LEJ. and Leavit brought assumpsit in the Circuit Court
ror the Kentucky District, against Watson, declaring on a
VOL. 1.

22

LEE v. WATSON.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

promissory note for $610, with a count for $1000 money due
for goods sold; $1000 money had and received; $1000 money
due on account stated, &c. What damages exactly were
claimed in the narr.as originally filed, did not clearly appear,
but they were obviously less than $2000. Demurrer was
put in to one part of the declaration and non assumpsit pleaded
to the residue, and the court having sustained the demurrer,
the record proceeded thus:
"On motion of the plaintiffs, and by consent of the defendants, leave is given plaintiffs to amend their declaration by striking out the amount of damages claimed in this cause, and
insert $2100, which is done accordingly, and the declaration so
amended."
A jury having been summoned to try the issue raised by
the plea of non assumpsit to the money counts, a verdict was
found by them for the defendants; whereupon the plaintiff
having taken a bill of exceptions on the trial, applied for
and obtained a writ of error to this court, under that section
of the Judiciary Act which provides that final judgments in
a Circuit Court, when the matter in dispute exceeds the sum
of $2000, may be re-examined here ;* the judge, however,
who had heard the case and who allowed the writ, making
this indorsement upon it:
"It was not without hesitation that the bill of exceptions was
allowed, and this writ of error is now sanctioned. The writ and
original declaration showed that the amount in controversy did
not exceed $1000; the bvidence offered on the trial by the plaintiffs showed that it did not exceed $700; and if the increase of
the damages by the amendment of the declaration was intended
for the sole purpose of giving the Supreme Court jurisdiction,
the question is whether it ought to be allowed such effect. I
bowever concluded that the counsel may proceed, because in
this mode the question will be most conveniently presented
where it will be at once and finally determined."
The question in this court now was whether the writ could
* See ante, Ryan v. Bindley, p. 67.

Dec. 1863.]

LEE V. WATSON.
Opinion of the court.

be sustained; a matter which was argued by Messrs. Lee and
Fisherfor the plaintiffs in error, and by Mr. Fendall contra.
Mr. Justice FIELD delivered the opinion of the court:
It appears from the certificate of the presiding judge of
the court below, indorsed on the writ of error, that the writ
and original declaration in the case showed that the amount
in controversy did not exceed one thousand dollars, and that
the evidence offered by the plaintiffs at the trial showed that
it did not exceed seven hundred dollars ; and that in the progress of the cause an amendment was made in the amount
of damages claimed, for the purpose of bringing the case
within the appellate jurisdiction of this court. It is hardly
necessary to add that upon the facts thus stated-and the
correctness of the certificate is not questioned-the court will
not entertain jurisdiction of the case.
To authorize a re-examination of a final judgment of the
Circuit Court, the matter in dispute must, with some exceptions, exceed the sum or value of two thousand dollars. By
matter in dispute is meant the subject of litigation-the matter for which the suit is brought-and upon which issue is
joined, and in relation to which jurors are called and witnesses examined. In an action upon a money demand, where
the general issue is pleaded, the matter in dispute is the debt
claimed, and its amount, as stated in the body of the declaration, and not merely the damages alleged, or the prayer
for judgment at its conclusion, must be considered in determining the question whether this court can take jurisdiction
on a writ of error sued out by the plaintiff. It certainly
would not be pretended that this court would hear a case
where the plaintiff counted solely upon a promissory note
of two hundred dollars, simply because he concluded his
declaration with an averment that he had sustained damages
from its non-payment of over two thousand, and prayed
judgment for the latter sum. Reference must be had both
to the debt claimed and to the damages alleged, or the prayer
for judgment. The damages or prayer for judgment must
be regarded, inasmuch as the plaintiff may seek a recovery

BLOOMER v. MILLINGER.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

for less than the sum to which he appears entitled by the
allegations in the body of the declaration.
Taking in the present case the certificate of the judge
below as correct, the amount in controversy-that is, the
debt alleged in the original declaration-did not exceed one
thousand dollars; the jurisdiction is not therefore acquired
by this court from the amendment in the amount of the
damages claimed. The writ of error is
DISMISSED.

BLOOMER V. MILLINGER.
1. A grant of a right by a patentee to make and use, and vend to others to be
used, a patented machine, within a term for which it has been granted,
will give the purchaser of machines from such grantee the right to use
the machine patentedas long as the machine itself lasts; nor will this
right to use a machine cease because an extension of the patent, not provided for when the patentee made his grant, has since been allowed,
and the machine sold has lasted and is used by the purchaser within the
term of time covered by this extension; the rule being distinguishable
from that applied to the assignee of the right to make and vend the thing
patented, who holds a portion of the franchise which the patent confers,
and whose right of course terminates with the term of the patent, unless
there is a stipulation to the contrary.
2. Bloomer v. McQuewan (14 Howard, 539), and Chaffee v. The Boston Belting
Cb. (22 Id., 217), approved.
8. How far parol proof may be introduced to show verbal agreements of the
parties at the time when deeds were executed, and so to prove mistake
or fraud in not executing what it was understood should be executed.
The question raised on argument, but not decided by the court.
BLOOMER, the appellant here, filed a bill in equity in the
Circuit Court for the Western District of Pennsylvania. He
set forth in it that he was owner of the exclusive right to
make and use, and vend to others to be used, within the
county of Alleghany, in Pennsylvania, the patented planing
machine of Woodworth; that subsequently to the 27th December, 1849, and about the 1st January, 1850, the respondent,
Millinger, had put in operation in that county, three of these
machines, and was continuing to use them without any law.

