660

WHITE V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

as much as three thousand five hundred acres, and the other
about two thousand acres.
Besides, in this class of cases, a large discretion must nece3sarily be left to the surveyor; and while we are not prepared
to say that we will not in any case review the exercise of
that discretion, we have no hesitation in saying that we do
not sit here to determine whether it has been accompanied
with the nicest discrimination, or the highest of wisdom.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

-WHITE V. UNITED STATES.
Where there is no archive evidence of a California grant, and its absence
is unaccounted for, and there has been no such possession as raises an

equity in behalf of the party, and especially where, in addition, the
expediente produced is tainted with suspicions of fraud, the claim must

be rejected.
APPEAL from the District Court for the Northern District
of California; the following case being presented.
The appellant, White, claimed a tract, or rancho of land,
known as San Antonio, under a grant alleged to have been
made to one Antonio Ortega. The United States, appellees
in the suit., claimed it under a grant alleged to have been
made by the same authority to a certain Juan Miranda. One
question, therefore, was as to the validity of the respective
documentary titles thus set up. But this question was complicated by other questions: one of actual occupation, another of agency or representation, and a third of abandonment. Ortega had married the daughter of Miranda, anti
both Ortega and Miranda had occupied the tract,-Miranda
and his family being sometimes in occupation, as Ortega
and his wife were at others; and the additional question
therefore was, whether Ortega was occupying under Miranda,
or Miranda occupying under Ortega,-a question made more
difficult. to solve by the fact that Ortega and his wife were
in hostile relations, leaving it uncertain when she was in pos-

Dec. 1863.]

WHITE V. UNITED STATES.

Statement of the case.

session, as she was at times, whether she was occupying
under her husband or under her father. In consequence of
his domestic difficulty, moreover, Ortega left California in
1843 for Oregon, remaining there till 1847; between which
years Miranda got his grant: and a question was whether
Ortega had abandonedthe property. Ortega's title was partly
of a documentary kind and partly of an equitable Solt, and
resting on parol evidence. The documentary title consisted
of a sheet of paper containing:
1. Petition to the governor, Alvarado.
2. A marginal order of reference.
3. An informe; and
4. A decree of concession.
There was also produced a map of the land solicited;
though when made was a question in the case. The petition
was in the name of Ortega, and was dated June 12th, 1840.
The marginal order was in the handwriting of and signed by
Governor Alvarado, and dated June 20th, 1840; this date,
however, being an altered one, as hereinafter stated. The
informe was signed by M. G. Vallejo, and dated July 30th,
1840. The decree of concession was dated August 10th,
1840, and, translated, in its important parts as follows:
"I grant to Don Antonio Ortega the land petitioned for, with
the understanding that in order to obtain the issue of the respective titulo, and to regularly make up the necessary expediente" (by which the boundaries should be marked), and the
necessary proceedings be taken, be shall make a map as required
by law, which he shall present without delay, together with this
instancia, which shall serve him as security during the further
proceedings indicated."
These documents were produced, together with the map,
from the custody of the claimant. It did not appear that they
were at any time on file in the public archives. The oral
testimony came from a-great number of witnesses.
Governor Alvarado, who was twice examined, testified that
he executed and delivered this grant to Ortega at the time
it bears date; and that some time afterwards, in the last ot
1840, or first of 1841, Ortega brought to him the original

WHITE V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

expediente and map, and left them with him, and that he
kept them for Ortega until about 1848, when he gave them
up to him.
As respected the date of the disefio, now produced by
the claimants under the title of Ortega, testimony of Alvarado, given on his second one, was as follows; Ortega himself testifying also to the same effect as to the disefio:
"Question 23. You have said that Ortega twice presented himself to you inMonterey, in 1840, in relation to this grant; state
what papers, if any, he presented to you on the occasion of his
first visit, and what papers on the occasion of his second visit.
"Answer 23. My recollection is that he brought with him each
time the same papers, that is the petition, but the first time
without any map; the second time the petition and diseflo together. He might have come other times, but I only recollect
those two times."
It was at the second interview that the "concession" was given.
General Vallejo, agent of colonization under the Mexican
government, testified that in 1838 or 1839, Ortega applied
to him, as was customary, with his petition for permission
to settle upon this rancho; that he gave him the permission
asked for, and he immediately moved on the rancho, taking
with him his father-in-law, Juan Miranda, and his family;
that he built a house and corrals,* and stocked the place
with horses and cattle; that he (Vallejo) furnished him with
stock f6r that purpose; that Miranda occupied the land.for
Ortega; that Ortega obtained the grant from Governor Alvarado in 1840; that he saw the grant himself; and that he
never gave Miranda any license or permission to occupy this
rancho, or any portion of it.
_ichardsontestifies that this rancho was granted to Ortega
by Governor Alvarado in the year 1840; that he knew the
boundaries of the rancho by seeing the original grant, and
having it in his possession; that Miranda occupied the rancho
By this term is meant an inclosure to shelter horses or other cattle. It
is originally a Spanish word; but is given in Worcester's English Dictionary
of 1830, as a term of our own language.

De. 1863.]

8HWITE V. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the case.

under Ortega by virtue of a special contract between Miranda
and Ortega; that they both told him so.
.De la _?osa testified that he wrote Ortega's petition for
him, and made the very map now exhibited in the case; that
he made it in 1839 or 1840; that he saw the grant, saw it in
the house of Ortega on the rancho in question; that Miranda
occupied the rancho for Ortega; that Ortega's family lived
on it during his absence in Oregon; that Miranda applied
f6r a grant of this land to himself while Ortega was absent
in Oregon; he (Rosa) drawing and presenting the petition;
that a grant to him was written out in the office of the secretary of state, but was never signed by the governor.
Jacob Leese, alcalde of Sonoma at the time Miranda ap.
plied for a grant, testified' that he gave him the certificate
found in his expediente wholly upon the allegation set forth
in his (Miranda's) petition, and from the fact that he (Miranda) lived upon the land. He also says: "But the fact
of the former grant (to Ortega) being concealed or contradicted by the petition, I was deceived; and if the grant was
obtained from the governor through the deception practised
upon the alcalde, that grant would be fraudulently obtained,
and would be void."
-FatherAccolti, a priest, testified that he became acquainted
with Ortega in 1845 in Oregon [to which place, as mentioned, Ortega went in 1843, remaining there till 1847 or '8],
and at that time Ortega urged him and some other priests
and some sisters of lNotre Dame to come to California and
establish a school, stating that he would give them, together
with "that piece of land, half of his stock of cattle on the
land." He stated that he had the grant to the rancho from
the Mexican government. The offer was made on condition
that he would educate his (Ortega's) children. He also testified that the original title-papers in this case, viz., the expediente and map, together with a deed subsequently given
by Ortega to Brouillet, were all placed in his possession in
December, 1849.
Father Brouillet, another priest, the person just mentioned
by Father Accolti, testified that he made an agreement

WHITE V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup.

.

Statement of the case.

with Ortega in 1849 to educate his children; and that, in
consileration thereof, Ortega made a deed to him of all this
rancho, excepting one league. He identified the original
deed as the one delivered him by Ortega. He also testified
that he was put in possession of this rancho by Ortega, May
1, 1849, in the presence of one Miller and Theodore Miranda, a son of Juan, who was also present as a witness, and
,acquiesced to the possession given in his presence by Ortega.
This possession was given on the rancho, and at the same
time the deed from Ortega was delivered to him, as well as
the original title-papers of the rancho. He also testified
that the title-papers, viz., the expediente and map, are the
same which were delivered to him by Ortega, May 1, 1849,
on this rancho, in presence of Miller and Theodore Miranda;
that before he delivered to Ortega his contract to educate
his children, he consulted General M. G. Vallejo as to the
validity of Ortega's title, and that Vallejo assured him the
title was genuine; that in the same year he took the said
Ortega's expediente and map to Monterey, and there showed
them to Governor Alvarado; and that Alvarado, at that
time, assured him that the said title to Ortega's rancho was
genuine; that there was but one question that could be raised
in it, which was, that the Departmental Assembly had not
acted upon it, but that he did not think that would be any
objection in the courts of the United States.
Miller, the person mentioned by Brouillet, confirmed this
account of delivery of possession.
Bojorques testified that Ortega owned this rancho as early
as 1841, was in possession of it in 1889, and had a small
house on the creek of San Antonio; that Juan Miranda and
his son, Teodoro Miranda, occupied the rancho for Ortega;
that he obtained his information from Ortega aiid both the
Mirandas.
Walker testified that he knew Ortega in Sonoma in 1843;
that he told him at that time that he owned this rancho;
and that he often heard him talking about his rancho in tho
presence of others; and he "never heard it denied or contradicted that it was his rancho," and that it was generally

Dec. 1863.]

WHITE V. UNITED STATES.

Statement of the case.

reported to belong to Ortega. He also stated that he went
to Oregon in the same company with Ortega; that before
leaving Sonoma for Oregon, Ortega went to his rancho and
brought stock away from there; and that he saw him driving
the stock, and he said he had taken them from the rancho
for the purpose of driving them to Oregon; and, when in
Oregon, he often heard Ortega say that he intended returning to his rancho of San Antonio and to his family.
In addition to this and other similar testimony, it appeared
that the French traveller, Duflot de 3ofras,who was in California in 1841, in his published -Explorationdu Territoire de
l'Oregon, des Galifornies, &c.,* a work whose general good
authority had been recognized by this court,t in giving
the names of the owners of ranchos in this region, includes
Ortega among them. The passage in De Mofras's book,
translated, reads thus:
"At the bottom of the great anse of Sansalito, to the north
of the tongue of land which divides, and at two leagues to the
east of Richardson, one meets with the rancho of the deceased
Irishman, Read. . . . Behind the farms of Richardson and of
Read, to the north and the west as far as the sea, arise the small
ranchos of Las Gallinas, Berry, Garcia, and Ocio, near the Punta
de los Reyes, and Bojorques, the nearest to the port of La Bo-

dega. Finally, more to the north and the east, ORTEGA, -Martin,
Pituluma, the Vallejos, Dorson, and Mackintosh, the most northern establishment of the Mexican territory. Five miles to
the north of the rancho of Read, one meets, not far from the
shore, with the mission of Saint Raphael .... The lands of the
mission are excellent. We saw in its gardens superb plants of
tobacco, cultivated by a man named ORTEGA."
Ortega, who had at the time of the suit no interest in the
result, was himself examined. After testifying positively to
having obtained the grant in 1840, he said thus:
"After the making of the decree of Governor Alvarado, and
during the same year, I went to Monterey, and applied to Alva* Vol. i, 44&-445.

t oUnited States v. Sutter, 21 Howard, 170.

666

WHITE V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
rado for a full and formal title; but it was during the recess of
the Departmental Assembly, and I could not obtain it. 1 did
not occupy the land in person, but my father-in-law, Juan Miranda,
occupied it for me in the year 1840. Miranda occupied the and
by placing his son there, who remained there six years, having
a hut there, and he had fifty cows there. I applied to Governor
Alvarado, with the paper before mentioned, and presented a
map, and then I went to Oregon, leaving the papers with the
governor.
",My father-in-law occupied the land on my account for the
whole six years, but never paid me anything whatever for the use
of it. I think my father-in-law died in 1845; I went to Oregon
in 1843, and was there four years, and he died the year before I
returned. I do not know whether Juan Miranda obtained a
grant of the land to himself or not. Teodoro Miranda, a son
of Juan Miranda, was occupying the land when I returned from
Oregon, the same that was occupying it when I went. He continued occupying the land from 1841 to 1848. I do not know who
occupied the land after 1848. I claimed the land after I came
back from Oregon; I went to Alvarado and got the papers for
the purpose of establishing my claim. This was after the country
had been taken by the Americans. I kept the papers about a
year, and then delivered them to a French priest by the name
of Brouillet; I made a present of the land to the priest, in pay
for the education of my children for eight years. Inever received
judicialpossessionof the land. I have no interest in the success
of this claim, or the want of it.
" Question. Did you ever demand of Teodoro Miranda the possession ot the land?
"Answer. I did not; I went to his mother, who had the control,
and demanded it of her. She told me the rancho belonged to her;
that she had a paper from Murphy, and from Leese, the alcalde
of Sonoma. I did nothing afterwards towards getting the occupancy of the land, but went to Alvarado and got the papers
before mentioned."
On the other hand, the Miranda title was thus supported:
The expediente of Miranda. This was found in the archives, duly numbered and entered on Jimeno's Index. It
consisted of:
1. A petition of Miranda, dated February 21, 1844.

:Dec. 1863.]

eWHITE V. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the case.

2. A certificate by Jacob Leese, alcalde of Sonoma, that
the land had been occupied several years, and that it did not
belong to any pueblo or corporation. Dated February 20,
1844
3.A report by Jimeno, dated May 2, 1844, that the land
had been occupied for four years by the party interested, by
cultivation, and by having a house thereon, with all his
goods; and that it does not belong to any one in particular.
4. An order that the title issue, signed by the governor,
and dated May 30, 1844.
5. A decree of concession, dated October 8,1844, declaring
Juan Miranda owner of the place called Arroyo de San Antonio, and directing the corresponding title to be nade out,
and entered in the respective book, and the expediente to be
sent to the Departmental Assembly for its approval.
6. Two copies of the formal grant or titulo, dated October
8, 1844, but unsigned.
The grant to Miranda, however, was not consummated by
delivery of the title-paper, it not having been signed, said
the witness, De la Rosa, "on account of the civil disturbances and the breaking out of the revolution about that
time;" though Miranda's daughter, the wife of Ortega, swore
that her father was taken sick and could not attend to it.
Numerous witnesses were produced to show that Miranda
was the reputed owner, and that he was in possession for
twenty years; positive testimony being adduced that such
possession began so far back as 1838. One person swore
that he had "put three hundred head of cattle upon it,
thirty wild mares, and some tame horses, branding the cattle
with his brand, which he had made at the blacksmith's
shop." It was incontestable that in an expediente of one
Padilla, to whom was granted a tract called the _Roblar de
k'z Miseria, and adjoining the one in question, the tract
granted to Padilla was described as bounded on one side
by "land of Don Juan Miranda;" and the same designation
of ownership was on the accompanying disefio or map. In
this case, General Vallejo had certified to the alcalde "that
the boundaries bordering are the same as those mentioned

WHITE V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

in Padilla's petition." The petition, in that case, was dated
No ;ember, 1844. In another case, a petition and grant to
one Bojorques, for the Laquna de San Antonio, the former
dated August, 1844, and the latter November, 1845, the
rancho San Antonio was described in the same way, as
"lands of Juan Miranda;" and the same characterization was
found on the map of an adjoining rancho, called Olimpale.
So, too, it was obvious that the date of the marginal order
of Governor Alvarado, on Ortega's petition, had been altered
from 1841 to 1840; the ink in which the alteration was made
being of a different color from that in which the marginal
order was itself written. So it was a fact that, by inspection
of the papers themselves, the disefios of Ortega and of Miranda appeared to be transcripts one from the other, and to
have been made by the same person and at the same time.
The edges of the paper on which they were made so tallied
that they made "indentures."
As respected Ortega himself, while it was testified that he
was a man whom one never "heard anything against," it
appeared that his life had been of a singularly miscellaneous
character. He was a Mexican by birth, and born in 1781,
being of course about sixty years old at the date of his petition, as he was seventy-two when he was examined in the
case. In 1802-8 he was living in New Orleans. Afterwards
he took holy orders, and exercised the office of a priest for
about three years. He then entered the Mexican army, and
served there for about twenty years, rendering, said Governor
Alvarado, manymeritorious acts for his country." In1834-5
he appears to have been "keeper of the keys" at the mission
of Sonoma; "mayordomo" of the same.* In 1838 he mar* The "obligation of mayordomos," as set forth in certain directions
made for them, are of a kind quite peculiar; some mention of them may
perhaps serve to illustrate the contested point,-the probability of Ortega's
owning the valuable land in question. They were:
1. To take care of the property under their charge, acting in concert with
the reverend padres in the difficult cases.
2. To compel the Indians to assist in the labors of the community, chastising them moderately for faults.
3 To see that the Indians observe the best morality, and frequent church,

Dec. 1863.]

WHITE V. UNITED STATES.

Statement of the case.

tied Maria Francisca Miranda, daughter of the Miranda
under whose title the appellees claimed; a handsome woman,
greatly younger than himself, who soon fell in love with a
man named Salvador. The character of the lady and the
nature of the new relations appear in her own testimony,
which, in question and answer, was thus:
"Question. What is your name, age, and place of residence?
" Answer. My name is Francisca Miranda; Idon't know my age;
I live in Petaluma, California.
" Question. Are you acquainted with Leonito Antonio Duque
de Ortega?
"1Answer. Yes, I know him; I am his wife.
"Question. How long has it been since you were married to
the said Ortega?
"Answer. I do not know.

I was married to him a long time

before he went to Oregon.
"Question. How many times, before your husband abandoned
you, did you and he quarrel?
"Answer. I never quarrelled with him. It was he who did
with me.
at the days and hours that have been customary; in which matter the reverend padres will intervene, &c.
To remit to the inspector's office a monthly account of the produce they
may collect into the storehouses, of the crops of grain, liqurs, &c., and of
the branding of all kinds of cattle. Said account must be authorized by the
reverend padres.
4. To take care that the reverend padres do not want for their necessary
aliment, and to furnish them with everything necessary for their personal
subsistence, as likewise with servants, which they may request for their domestic service.
5.To provide the ecclesiastical prelates all the assistance which they may
stand in need of, when they make their accustomed visits to the missions
through which they pass; and, under the strictest responsibility, to receive
them in the manner due to their dignity.
6. In missions where the said prelates have their residence, they will have
the right to call upon the mayordomos at any hour when they may require
them; and said mayordomos are required to present themselves to them
every day at a certain hour, to know what they require in their ministerial
function.
7. After the mayordomos have for one year given proofs of their activity,
honesty, and good conduct, they shall be entitled (in times of little occupation) to have the Indians render them some personal services; but the consent of the Indians must be previously obtained.

670

WHITE V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. -t.

Statement of the case.

"Question. Before leaving you, did he not charge you with inconstancy?
"Answer. He never accused me; he was the guilty one.
" Question. Have you been divorced from him or legally separated?
"Answer. After his return from Oregon, he charged me before
an American, who was represented to me as the Governor of the
State of California, with having a man. I appeared with my witnesses; and he appeared, but had no witnesses, and the matter
was dropped.
" Question. Since your husband abandoned you, have you had
any children, and how many?
"Answer. Since my husband abandoned me I have had three
children, besides the one with which I was enceinte when he left.
"Question. Since your husband left you and went to Oregon,
have you ever lived with him?
"Answer. I never have."
In 1841, Ortega kept a little liquor store in Sonoma, cultivating some land, and near the same time "used to be
knocking about General Vallejo's (who was Commandant
General), as a sort of steward." In 1843 he went to Oregon.
"He said he was going to Oregon to remain; that he had
reasons for leaving the country, family reasons; he accused
his wife of inconstancy to her marriage vows, and said he
was never coming back." He took with him "one cow and
a couple of horses." In 1845 he set off fiom Oregon to return to California by sea; but the vessel was wrecked, and
after losing everything he had, he "returned to Oregon
almost naked." He here stayed with a man named Walker,
who "gave him blankets, took care of him, fed, clothed, and
sheltered him." During his second stay in Oregon, as appeared by a witness who was "head sawyer in a sawmill
there, and kept a boarding-house for the hands," Ortega's
occupation was "that of waiting on the house, bringing
wood and water;" he paid nothing for his board, the witness
"thinking a great deal of him." "He had an Indian boy,
who worked all the time for him, to endeavor to get money
to return to California." In 1848 "he was started off home

Dec. 1863.]

WHITE V. -UNITED STATES.

Argument for the Ortega title.

again."

In 1849 he was "bell-ringer to the church. . .

.I

don't know," said one witness, "any occupation he had at
that time beside that. He officiated in the church, ringing
the bell, attending round there. He was a good deal about
General Vallejo's as a sort of steward. He had no property
that I know of,except one cow and a couple of horses that
were given to him, and which he took with him to Oregon."
The court below decided in favor of the Miranda title;
assigning among the minor reasons for its opinion the character of Rosa, "as disclosed by his own avowal, that in
1844 he was endeavoring to obtain for Miranda a grant of
lands which he knew had already been granted in 1840 to
Ortega; or, as established in the case of Luco et als. v. The
United States,* and other cases, in which the unreliability of
his statements, and those of several other of the claimant's
witnesses, have been judicially declared by the Supreme
Court;" referring also to the fact that other ranchos, granted
about 1844, as the Joblar de la MXiseria, Laguna de San Antonio, and the Olimpale, referred to this tract, one of their boundaries, as "lands of Juan Miranda;" that the alteration of
dates in the case was a circumstance not explained; that the
preponderance, both of proofs and probabilities, was, that
Miranda's possession was not that of a tenant; and that "in
1843, Ortega departed to a foreign country, under circumstances from which an intention to abandon his bwn might
well be inferred." The circumstance of the maps in Miranda's
petition, though this last was presented in 1844, being apparently made at the same date as the one in Ortega's petition, though alleged to be of an earlier date, and both made
by one person, De la Rosa, was adverted to as a circumstance indicating that Ortega's map was possibly made (ft(T
the date when it ought to have been, and was inserted posthumously in his papers.
.Xessrs. Gushing and Gillet,for the appellants (title of Ortega):
1. Where witnesses are not impeached by the evidence in
* 23 Howard, 548.

WHITE V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. ct

Argument for the Ortega title.

the case, and allowed to defend their characters, if attacked,
they must be treated as witnesses of good character, and
entitled to full credit. *Whathas been said by this court in
opinions given in former cases, cannot be referred to in order
to discredit them. Such a course is not tolerated in tribunals
of justice. This beach has recently settled that question.
"The former opinions of the court," says GniER, J., speaking
for the court, "may be referred to on questions of law, but
cannot be quoted as evidence of the character of living witnesses."* Certainly witnesses cannot be convicted of perjury as "matter of law."
2. The acts of third persons are not admissible evidence
against the claimant to defeat his legal rights. The United
States seek to avoid the rights of the claimant by showing
that certain persons had asked for or obtained grants of land
in the vicinity of those in question, describing the latter as
Miranda's. This is not legal evidence for any purpose.
Such descriptions cannot affect third persons who had no
agency in making them. If admissible, it would merely
show that the applicant did not discriminate between ownership and possession, or did not know the relation of landlord
and tenant which existed between Ortega and Miranda, or
the facts in relation to the ownership.
3. The United States cannot set up a wrongful act of
Mexican officers to defeat rights which that government had
previously conferred. The rights conferred upon Ortega by
the concession were within the lawful powers of the governor. If any governor made a second grant when the
first was outstanding, his act was a fraud upon the first, and
void. Such a fraudulent and void act is no evidence to
prove the first grant had not been made, or that it had
ceased to be effective. A party cannot thus make evidence
for himself to avoid or do away with his own acts conferring
rights upon others. It follows that all the evidence given
in this case concerning the Miranda grant is illegal, and cannot be considered as affecting the rights of Ortega.
* United States'v. Johnson, ante, 329.

Dec. 1863.]

cWIHITE v. UNITED STATES.
Argument for the Ortega title.

4. Ortega had such a claim that Mexico, under her laws,
usages, and customs, would, on a proper application, have
completed and confirmed his title. By the laws of Mexico
she gave away her land in large tracts to settlers, those having rendered important military services--within which class
Ortega was-being entitled to high consideration. By usage,
the formalities to be observed in granting were far from a
technical character, and might be varied by the granting
officer, and even statute requisites dispensed with, as held in
.,-emont v. The United States,* and for the reason that formalities did not enter into or constitute the essence of the matter, and were unimportant. By custom, permission to occupy
conferred a right to possession, and such occupation under
an expectation of acquiring a full title gave the occupant
an equitable claim to be furnished with a legal title. As
Mexico gave away her lands, she was liberal in her usages
and customs, and as proved in this case, as it has been in
others, and under the present circumstances, would have
promptly completed the title. The United States are bound,
without reference to the change of government and of circumstances, to do now what Mexico would have done. It
cannot be questioned that, had Mexico remained the owner,
her governor, Alvarado, or any other one, would have completed Ortega's title. That Ortega received permission to
occupy the land in question is proved by Vallejo and Rosa.
This confers the same rights as are required under incomplete grants by express authority of the Mexican government.t
5. A grant cannot be set aside on mere suspicion. Here,
however, not even a case of suspicion has been developed.
Not a witness has sworn that Ortega did not present his
petition; that Vallejo did not give permission to occupy,
and did not sign the report, and Alvarado the grant, or

Richardson and De la Rosa did not see the grant, as stated
by them respectively. We have the right, then, to assume
* 17 Howard, 561.

t Arguello v United States. 18 Howard, 54; United States v. Poralta,
19 Id., 343
VOL 1.

43

674

WHITE V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the Ortega title.

that there was a grant to Ortega, and made at the time
stated, which he then had in his possession, because we have
proved it, and that proof has not been overcome by confl'.ting proof. This fact is fixed. It follows that Ortega had a
right to possession, conferred by proper authority. It has
been suggested that Ortega's map was not made in 1840,
when it purported to be, and was copied from Miranda's
made in 1844. But why may not Miranda have got his as
well from Ortega's?
6. Then, it is proved that Ortega went into possession in
1839 or 1840 by Vallejo, who let him have stock to put upon
the land; proved by Rosa, by Richardson, and by Ortega
himself. That he claimed to be in possession, by his fatherin-law, is also proved by the same, and others. It is proved
by Walker that he took stock from there to drive to Oregon.
It is proved by Father lBrouillet, Miller herein confirming
him, that when he sold to and put the former in possession,
Theodore Miranda, the only one on the land, raised no objection, thereby admitting Ortega's right to the land and
possession. Under these circumstances the possession was,
in fact, by Ortega personally, and by Miranda, as his tenant,
at first, and by his son afterwards, for him. None of the
government witnesses know or swear, as a matter of fact,
that Miranda did not occupy for Ortega. They infer otherwise, from what they saw, which is not inconsistent with the
supposition that he held under and represented his son-inlaw, as sworn to by him and several others. That the possession in law was that of Ortega, and followed the permission given to occupy and the title, cannot be reasonably
questioned.
7. It is a presumption of law, when Miranda entered un
der Ortega, who had a claim of title, that the possession
continued under Ortega until the contrary is fully proved.
Miranda could not throw off his allegiance as a tenant, and
assume control on his own account. This, however, is what
he sought to do when he sought to obtain title in the absence of Ortega. The law will not let him do this. He entered as a tenant, and continued as a tenant. Those who

Dec. 1863.]

WHITE V. UNITED STATES.
Argument for the Miranda title.

set up the change in the character of the possession must
prove it, which in this case has not been done. Having entered under Ortega, the presumption of law, in the absence
of clear proof, is that while he continued there, he was a
tenant under the owner by whose permission he entered.
Hence, the concession or grant and continued occupation
are established, and a confirmation must follow.
8. Abandonment of claim to land can only take place
where the party in fact intends to and does abandon, which
must be manifested by acts of a decided and unequivocal character showing such intention, and which can be in no other
manner accounted for. Abandonment is a matter of inteiition, demonstrated by significant and pertinent acts. There
are none such on the part of Ortega in this case. He has
not in fact abandoned, nor has he said one word looking to
abandonment. Leaving a wife, who was an adulteress, is
wholly different from abandoning his lands. The case is
that of a man who having put a tenant into possession, and
leaving that tenant in occupancy, took a portion of his stock,
and went away, but who, while away, was continually talking of his land and stock, and of his intention to return, and
who proposed to transfer a portion of both to the clergy, if
they would go home with him, and educate his children.
fle started to return, and Was shipwrecked, and as soon as
he could procure means, started again, and entered upon his
land, and, in presence of his tenant still holding under him,
conveyed and delivered possession of all his grant but a
league, since conveyed. All this, instead of showing abandonment, disproves it, and establishes the fact that there was
none actual or intended, but that he clung to his rights from
first to last.
Messrs. Black, -everdy Johnson, and Wills, contra:
1. The facts show a secret grant of the land in controversy; a grant-retained in the private custody of the Governor
of California until after the cession of that country to the
United States; one of which no public record in the archives
of that country was made at the time at which the grant

676

WHITE v. U-ITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct

Argument for the Miranda title.

purports to have been made, or afterwards during the Mexican dominion; one of which the successors of Alvarado and

other Mexican officers had no knowledge; one which is first
made known to the public by the production of the appropriate evidence of its existence only after the Mexican dominion over that country had ceased; one,-in regard to which,
during all the antecedent period of time, the land granted
had been in the actual and visible occupancy of another,
while the alleged grantee himself was absent for the greater
part of the intermediate time in Oregon, a foreign country.
In view of these facts, we contend:
1st. That archive evidence of the existence of an alleged
Mexican grant for lands in California is. necessary in order
to secure the confirmation of a claim founded on such a
grant; and that, without such evidence, neither this claim
nor any other can be confirmed by this court, without the
previous reversal of a long line of its decisions on that very
point.
This proposition is ftndamental, and, if true, disposes of
the whole case. The foundation of it was laid by this court
in the case of United States v. Cambuston.* The doctrine, in
another form, was quite strongly reasserted in the following
year, to wit, at December Term, 1857, in United States v. Sutter.t In Fuentes v. United States,t a direct application of
what was announced in United States v. Sutter, as a test of
truth, was made to determine the validity of another grant,
and the doctrine was reannounced at the same term in
other cases.ยง In United States v. Bolton,II we have a yet more
pointed application of the doctrine. The claim was rejected.
The want of archive evidence to authenticate it, left it with
out any "legal foundation to rest upon." The language of
this court, however, in United States v. Luco, is so remarkable that it must be quoted as the announcement of a general
20 Howard, 59.
t 21 Id., 175.
$ 22 Id., 453-4.
United States v. Teschmaker, 22 Id., 404; Same v. Pico, Id., 415; Same
v. Vallejo, Id., 422.
1123 Id., 350.
Id., 543; and see United States v. Castro, 24 Id., 346; Palmer v. United

States, Id., 125; United States v. Knight's Adm., 1 Black, 245.

Dec. 1863.]

eWHITE .X UNITED STATES.
Argument for the Miranda title.

principle applicable to all California land cases. "In con
clusion," says Mr. Justice GRiE , "we must say, that, aftei
a careful examination of the testimony, we entertain no
doubt that the title produced by the claimants is false and
forged, and that, as an inference or corollary from the facts
now brought to our notice, it may be received as a general
rule of decision, that no grant of land purporting to have
issued from the late government of California should be received as genuine by the courts of the United States, unless
it be found noted in the registers, or the expediente, or some
part of it be found on file among the archives where other
and genuine grants of the same year are found; and that
owing to the weakness of memory with regard to the dates of
grants signed by them, the testimony of the late officers of
that government cannot be received to supply or contradict
the public record, title of which there is no trace to be found
in the public archives." How wise are the rules here laid
down, the case before us proves. The claim is supported, as
we see, by the testimony of General M. G. Vallejo and De
la Rosa, whose bad character and bribeworthy avocations
are graphically drawn by this court in the case just named.
De la Rosa is the same gentleman who declared in that case,
"that the only right way of swearing was by the priest on
the Catholic cross." The claim is also supported by the
testimony of Ortega, the pretended grantee, another of Vallejo's dependents, who, according to the evidence, exercised
at various times the functions of priest and 'soldier; was
keeper of a little liquor store at Sonoma; hanger-on at Vallejo's; at one time mayordomo of the mission of Sonoma;
at another, keeper of the keys at the same mission; sometimes a bell-ringer at a church, and sometimes a waiter, a
carrier of wood and water in a private house, and a lumberman at a saw-mill in. Oregon; during the latter and the
greater part of which time, according to the theory of the
claimant, he was the owner of four leagues of land in California !
2. Vhile the Ortega title has no record evidence in its
favor, it has a mass of such evidence against it.

*WHITE V. -UNITED STATES.

LSup. Ct

Argument for the Miranda title.

The Miranda title shows a petition, dated February 21,
1844, alleging an antecedentpossessionfor four years of the land
solicited; certificates by the alcalde of the district, and by
the secretary of state, that he had occupied it for four years,
and merited the grant; an order that a title be issued; a
decree of concession, followed by two copies of the grant,
made in pursuance of the decree of concession; and finally
an extract from Jimeno's Index, showing that the grant had
actually been issued by the governor in favor of Miranda,
and that the proper record of the fact had been made in
Jimeno's Index, one of the registers of the archives, as required by law.
But this is not all. It appears that Padilla, in 1844, petitioned for a certificate to enable him to obtain a grant for
the land known by the name of Roblar de la Miseria, and calling for the land of Don Juan Miranda as his boundary on
the southeast; that General Vallejo, in 1844, certified to the
alcalde that the boundaries of the land solicited by Padilla,
as described, were true. The same facts, substantially, also
appear in the petition of Bojorques for the grant of the
Laguna de San Antonio, and with regard to the rancho called
Olimpale. It is said on the other side, that this is the evidence of third persons, and cannot be used to dispossess
Ortega of his property. But it is the same sort of evidence,
and far better in quality, than that given us on that same side
in the book of Monsieur Duflot de Mofras, the French traveller, who seeks to dispossess Miranda.
3. Admitting the original genuineness of the Ortega title,
still, by his removal to Oregon to reside in 1843-at that time
a foreign country to Mexico and California-he lost, by the
law of Mexico, whatever title he had previously acquired,
and the land then became grantable to Miranda, or to any
other Mexican citizen. By the colonization law of 1824, it
is enacted as follows: "No one who, by virtue of this law,
shall acquire the ownership of lands, shall retain them if he
shall reside out of the territory of the republic."* Now, it is
* Hallecl.'s Report, Appendix No. 4; Jones's Report, p. 34,

15.

Dec. 1863.]

WHITE V. UNITED STATES.
Argument for the Miranda title.

undisputed that Ortega left California in 1843, and resided
in Oregon until 1848.
It is not necessary to put this point on the ground of intentional abandonment. But the fact no doubt was, that
when Ortega left California, he went abandoning everything
he left behind, and intending never to return. The cause
of his leaving was a quarrel with his wife, whom he suspected of conjugal infidelity. He separated from her, took
all his goods with him-one cow and a couple of horsesand went. He said he was going to Oregon to remain; he
said he had reasons for leaving the country, family reasons;
he accused his wife of inconstancy to her marriage vows,
and said he was never coming back. The facts that he was
-jealous of his wife, and that he left the country for that
reason, are not denied. The facts that, years afterwards,
he endeavored to return to California, but was prevented for
a time by shipwreck, and afterwards did actually return,
show only the states of his mind at those times. That, however, is unimportant. The true inquiry is: What was his
intention when he first went away? If he went away with
the intention of residing permanently abroad, and had any
title to the rancho San Antonio previously, he lost it by the
express law of Mexico. It is also to be observed in this
connection, that it was not until after the removal of Ortega
to Oregon that Miranda applied for his grant, even admit,
ting, for the sake of argument, that he had not been occupying the land previously on his own account. Under the law
of Mexico, therefore, after that event he had a clear right
to ask for a grant of the land to himself.
4. In point of fact, the documentary and other evidence
on which this claim is founded is false and fraudulent. The
discussion of this question of fact involves a consideration
of the oral evidence, .in connection with the archive evidence already considered. The alteration of dates is a bad
circumstance. The identity in appearance of the two maps,
another. Miranda's map cannot have been copied from
Ortega's; for the latter, if it had existed, was, according
to the case set up, in Alvarado's private custody, and not

WHrrIE v. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

accessible to Miranda. The oral evidence, considered separately, presents a distressing conflict of testimony. The
possession of the archive evidence must control.
Mr. Justice SWAYTE delivered the opinion of the court.
It would be a waste of time to analyze the conflicting testimony, to weigh against each other the parts which are in
conflict, or to attempt to explain or reconcile their antagonisms. It will be sufficient to indicate the conclusions at
which we have arrived.
The expediente of Miranda was found among the proper
archives. It is referred to in Jimeno's Index. The title
never passed into a formal grant by the governor, but it is
shown that this arose from the illness of Miranda and the
disturbed condition of the country. The record is wholly
silent as to any objection by the governor or from any other
quarter. Ortega testified that he was never personally in
possession. It is clearly proved that the possession of Miranda commenced as early as 1838, and continued from that
time. The petition of Bojorques in 1844, and the grant to
him in 1845; the petition of Fadilla in 1844, and the accompanying map, and the disefio of the rancho Olimpale, all
refer to the rancho in controversy as "the land of Juan
Miranda." These documents show that Miranda was regarded in the neighborhood as the owner, and not as a
tenant. We are entirely satisfied, from the evidence found
in the record, that he held in his own right and not vicariousy for Ortega. The petition of those claiming the title
of Miranda was withdrawn from before the Board of Land
Commissioners. Why, does not appear. Whatever the
caus, its withdrawal cannot lessen the light which the facts
relating to it throw upon the merits of the claim of Ortega.
TLe expediente of Ortega is confronted byi strong suspicion, of its bona fides. There is no trace of it among the
proper archives. It does not appear that any paper belonging to it was ever in any public office before the petition in
tnis case was filed by the appellant's intestate. The Mexirans of the Spanish race, like their progenitors, werea formal

Dec. 1866.]

WHITE V. UNrTED STATES.
Opinion of the court.

people, and their officials were usually formal and careful in
the administration of their public affairs. Full archive evidence exists in the case of Miranda. Its absence in this case
is not satisfactorily accounted for.
Ortega abandoned his wife in 1843, and went to Oregon.
He was poor and had been so for years. It does not appear
that, from the time of the concession to the period of his
departure, he made the slightest effort to consummate his
title. He returned in 1847. There is reason to believe that
when he left the country he intended finally to abandon his
claim, if he had not done so befbre, and that such was the
understanding of the Mexican authorities.
It appears that the order of reference made by the governor, which is found in the margin of the petition, was
originally dated in 1841, and that this date was subsequently
changed to 1840 with ink of a different color. A clerical
mistake in writing the date originally, by antedating it a
year, is unnatural and improbable. As it then stood it was
subsequent in date to the report for which it called. It has
been suggested that 1841 was the true and proper date, and
that the concession was made after the return of Ortega from
Oregon, and that it was antedated in 1840,-the writer not
observing that the order of reference was dated in 1841,and that, upon this fact being discovered, the date of the
reference was changed to cure the discrepancy. The alteration is unexplained and unaccounted for. The evidence
leaves us in the dark as to the time, the motive, and the circumstances.
It seems to be admitted that the disero of Ortega and that
of Miranda were prepared by the same hand and at the same
time. Alvarado made the order of reference at Monterey
on the 20th of June, 1840, and the order of concession at the
same place on the 10th of August, 1840, or 1841. In his
last deposition this passage occurs:
"Question. You have said that Ortega twice presented himself
to you in Monterey, in 1840, in relation to this grant; state
what papers, if any, he presented to you on the occasion of his
first visit, and what papers on the occasion of his second visit?

RESOLUTE AND IORTHERNER.

[Sup. t

Statement of the case.

"Answer. My recollection is that he brought with him each
time the same papers-that is, the petition; but the first time
without any map; the second time the petition and diseflo together. He might have come other times, but I only recollect
those two times."
Ortega testified to the same effect as to the disefio.
That both are mistaken upon the subject is shown by the
concession. In that instrument, which was given at the
second interview between them, A.lvarado says: " H e" (Ortega) "shall make a map as required by law, which he will
present opportunely." There was, then, no map present at
that time. When was it prepared and added to the other
papers? It is claimed, on behalf of the United States, that
it was made when the disefio of Miranda was prepared in
1844, and came into the hands of Ortega by some means
unexplained after his return from Oregon. Upon this subject, as in regard to the altered date of the concession, the
evidence is inconclusive and unsatisfactory. The obscurity
is increased by the character of some of the leading witnesses who have testified in support of theclaim. But the
solution of these difficulties is not necessary to the determination of the case. It has been held by this court, in a long
and unbroken line of adjudications, that where there is no
archive evidence, and its absence is unaccounted for, and
there has been no such possession as raises an equity in behalf of the party, and especially where, in addition, the expediente produced is tainted with suspicions of fraud, the claim
must be rejected. We feel no disposition to relax the rule,
and it is fatal to the case of the appellant.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

RESOLUTE Ah'D IORTHERNER.
The waters of Puget's Sound, in Washington Territory, were not within
the Rules and Regulations adopted 17th October, 1857, of the Supervising
Inspectors, appointed under the act of Congress of 30th August, 1852,
to be observed by vessels in passing each other.

CONGRESS, by act of August 30, 1852,* provided for the
* 10 Stat. at Large 70,

18.

