RoGERs V. THE MARSHAL.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

the payment to have been made prior to that time. How
much earlier it was made does not appear. It is clear that
so far as this section is concerned the plaintiff was entitled
to recover, and the court should have so instructed the jury.
The defence rested wholly upon the flist section.
Under that section, as before remarked, there must be
possession for seven years prior to the commencement of the
suit. The first payment of taxes may be later than the
beginning of that period. As the jury were instructed,
they may not have been satisfied as to the requisite possession under the first section, and have found for the defendants under the second section, upon the ground that the
taxes had been paid for seven successive years, although
the first payment was made later than seven years before
the action was commenced.
The law, as to instructions outside of the facts of the case,
or involving abstract propositions, is well settled. If they
may have misled the jury to the injury of the party against
whom their verdict is given, the error is fatal.*
The judgment below is reversed, and a
VENIRE DE NOVO AWARDED.

ROGERS V.

THE

MARSHAL

1. The marshal is not responsible on his official bond for the act of his deputy in discharging sureties on a replevin bond, in any case wherA the
attorney of the plaintiff in that suit, though he gave no direct and pmitive instructions to the deputy, has still done that which was calculated
to mislead the deputy, and to induce his erroneous act. And in the
consideration of a question between the deputy and attorney, it is to be

remembered that the former is but a ministerial officer, unacquainted
with the rules which discharge sureties from their obligations, while
the latter, in virtue of his profession, is supposed to be familiar with
them.

2. Where an instruction, though not in the best form of words, is sufficiently intelligible, and has been rightly interpreted by the jury, in reference to the evidence, a reversal will not be ordered in the indulgence
of a nice criticism.
* Clarke v. Dutcher, 9 Cowen, 674; Wardell v. Hughes, 3 Wendell, 418

Dec. 1863.]

ROGERS v. tHl

MARSHAL.

Statenient of the case.
8. It is the duty of counsel, excepting to propositions submitted to a jury
by the court below, to except to such propositions distinctly and severally; and although the court below may err in some of the propositions-which in this case it did-yet, if the propositions are excepted to
in mass, the exception will be overruled, provided one of the propositions be correct, which was the case here.
4. Where the decision of a question depends at all upon the fact, whether
the plaintiff in a suit had assented to an act which was a deviation from
the actor's strict line of duty, and of a kind for which the plaintiff could
hold him responsible, it is proper enough to ask what the plaintiff's
attorney said after the act was done; the case being one where an adoption by the plaintiff of the act illegally done concluded his remedy.
ERROR

to the Circuit Court for the District of Wisconsin;

the case being thus:
Rogerg had issued a writ of replevin in the District Court
for the district above named, against a certain Remington
and one Martin to replevy a quantity of lumber. By the
code of Wisconsin, which was adopted in the District Court
as its rule of proceeding, it was provided that on "a written
undertaking executed by one or more sufficient sureties,"
approved, &c., for the prosecution of the action for the return
of the property to the defendant, the marshal should take
the same, and deliver it to the plaintiff, unless, &c. In the
replevin suit just mentioned, the deputy marshal, one Fuller,
took a bond, and delivered the property; but the bond taken
by him, on suit brought upon it, was decided to be void,*
and was iow confessedly so. A suit--the present action, to
wit, in the court below-was now brought against the marshal and his sureties, on his official bond; the ground of the
suit being the mistake of the deputy marshal, Fuller, in
taking a bond that was void instead of taking one that was
valid. The defence set up was that the deputy, Fuller, acted
in the matter under instructions from one Hopkins, the attorney of the plaintifin the repletin suit. And one point involved
in the suit accordingly. was, whether Fuller, the deputy, had
so acted.
That point rested on the testimony of the attorney, Hopkins, and the deputy, Fuller, both of whom were witnesses
in the suit.
See Martin v. Thomas, 24 Howard, 315.

ROGERS v. THE MARSHAL.

[Sup. C

Statement of the case.

Fuller, the deputy, swore as follows:
"After I took the lumber, Remington came to me, and inquired
the form of a bond. I gave him a form, and the next day he
brought a bond signed by himself and Martin. I took the bond
to Mxr. Hopkins, who was attorney for the plaintiff in the replevin. He said he would not have Renington on the bond at all.
I took the bond back to Remington, and told him what Hopkins
iaid. Remington took the bond, and the next day he returned
it with the name of John Keefe on it. I took the bond to Hopkins, who said he did not know anything about Keefe, but that
if I could get Andrew Proudfit's name on the bond to take it.
I told this to Remington, who took the bond again, and brought
it to me with Proud/it's name on it. I said to Remington, '1
cannot receive the bond, your name is on it.' He said he would
take his name off, and I said that would be in accordance with
my instructions by Hopkins. I handed the bond back to Remington. He went to the desk, erased his name in my presence,
in all the places where it now appears erased, and brought it
back to me in its present shape. No one was present when the
erasure was made but myself, my clerk, and Remington."
The testimony of Mr. Hopkins was to the same general
effect; he stating that when the bond was brought to him,
in the first instance, he told Fuller "the statute requires the
bond to be signed by sureties: and I do not want Remington's
name on it." Hopkins had never seen the bond after Fuller
took it away; nor heard of the erasure until he heard of it
casaally, and long after it was made.
in the course of the examination of the deputy marshal,
the defendant's counsel asked him (under objection, overruled, to the question), what Mr. Hopkins said afterwards
about the bond. The witness answered,
"Mr. Hopkins told me a month afterwards, that it was necessary to have Remington's name on it; that he was then
mistaken in the code; he thought it was the same as the New
York code. He said the New York code did not require the
defendant's name to be on the bond, and the code of this State
did. He gave that as a reason why be would not have Remington's name on the bond. The marshal knew nothing about the

Dec. 1863.]

RoGERs v. THE M.naS u.
Statement of the case.

transaction. He was away from town at the time. I was act,
ing under the direction of Mr. Hopkins, the attorney of the
plaintiff, who had charge of the whole thing."
The evidence being closed- and it having been made to
appear that Mr. Hopkins was not only attorney of the plaintiff in the replevin suit, but was also attorney for the plain.
tiff in the suit brought on the replevin bond, the court
charged as follows:
"If the deputy marshal in the execution of the writ of replevin was in the due service of the writ in taking the bond on
the part of the defendants to retain the property, and the altered
bond was accepted by the deputy marshal in pursuance of instructions or the interference of the attorney for the plaintiff, then these
defendants are not to be held liable.
"The bond given to the deputy in the first instance, with the
name of Remington on it as principal, was valid so far as it re,
lated to his being a party or obligor on said bond. It is for the
jury to determine whether the erasurewas made in consequence of the
interference of Mr. Yopkins, the attorney.
"The interference or consent of the plaintiff's counsel may be inferred in Partfrom the fact of his afterwardsactingon the bond as valid,
and bringing suit thereon."
The bill of exceptions, after reciting this charge, as above
given, proceeded in these words:
"To which said instructions and charge to the jury the plain.
tiffs by their counsel then and there, in open court, did except,
according to the course of practice of this court."
In regard to the form of the exceptions it is necessary here
to say, that a rule of the Supreme Court* directs that "judges
of the Circuit and District Courts do not allow any bill of
exceptions which shall contain the charge of the court at
large to the jury, in trials at common law, upon any general
exception to the whole of such charge, but that the party excepting be required to state distinctly the several matters in
law in such charge, to which he excepts, and that such mat.
* Rule 38, adopted at January Term, 1832.

ROGERS V. THE MARSHAL.

[Sup. C

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

ters of law and those only, be inserted in the bill of exceptions, and allowed by the court."
The questions now before this court were:
1. Did the court err in any of its instructions?
2. If so, can the plaintiff in error, in the face of the rule
of court already mentioned and the practice of the court,
'profit of the error on a bill so general as the one here?
3. Was the objection to the question asked of the deputy
marshal as to what Mr. Hopkins said after the bond was
taken, and the lumber given up, rightly overruled?
M. Carpenter,for the plaintiff in error:
1. There is no more pretence for saying that Hopkins
directed or consented to the erasure, than there is for saying
that he directed the marshal to forge the name of Proudfit
to the bond. He objected to the bond because Remington's
name was on it, and because Proudlit's was not; but it was
the duty of the marshal, even under these instructions, if
they were instructions, to get the name of Proudfit legally
upon the bond, and the name of Remington legally off from
it, in other words to draw a new bond and to have Proudfit
sign that. It would have been correct to charge the jury
that if the plaintiff or his attorney directed the erasure to be
made in the absence of the other signers, and the marshal
erased it, acting under such instructions, the plaintiff could
not recover. But the charge in substance was, that if the
marshal made the erasure in consequence of the interference
of Hopkins-that is, because Hopkins interfered-the plaintiff could not recover. Now it is true that in a popular
sense, and as it would be understood by a jury, the erasure
was made in consequence of what Hopkins said: that is, if
Hopkins had said nothing, the marshal would not have
erased the name. So, if the marshal, after the first interview with Hopkins, had forged Proudfit's name to the bond,
it might be said that he had done so, in consequence of Hop
kins desiring his name on the bond. It was in the sense we
have indicated that the jury understood the charge. It must
have been so intended by the judge; for there was no testi-

Dec. 1863.]

D.oGEs v. THE MAISHAL.
Argument for the plaintiff in error.

mony tending to prove that Hopkins directed the erasure;
on the contrary the marshal rather testified that the last
instructions of Hopkins were to take the bond, if Proudflit's
name was obtained upon it, waiving the objection that it wassigned by .Reminqton.
Again, the judge charged the jury that the interference
or consent of the plaintiff's counsel (to the erasure) may be
inferred in part from the fact of his afterwards "acting on the
bond as valid, and bringing suit thereon." This was clearly
erroneous; the testimony proved that Hopkins did not consent to the erasure at all, or even know of it till long afterwards. The erasure was a fact; the legal consequence of
that fact upon the validity of the bond was matter of opinion.
Conceding that when months afterwards Hopkins discovered
that the erasure had been made, he thought as matter of lav
that the bond could be recovered upon, how does that
opinion even tend to show that he consented to the erasure?
This is the first time that a lawyer's erroneous opinion as to
the legal consequences of an act has been held competent
evidence tending to prove that he consented to the commission of the act itself.
-2. As to the form of the exceptions. The rule of this court
was sufficiently observed by the judge in allowing the exceptious here. The bill does not set out the whole charge,
but only " the several matters in law in such charge to which"
we excepted; and the bill of exception then says: "To
which said instructions," &c.;"the plaintiffs, by their counsel
then and there in open court, did except, according to the
course of practice of" the District Court: that is, according
to the practice prescribed by the rule; or, in other words,
did except to each of the several matters in law in said charge,
which are inserted in this bill of exceptions. The principle of
this rule is, that the party excepting should call the attention of the court specifically to the matters objected to, so
as to give the court below an opportunity to correct any
mistake in the charge. And the party will not be permitted
to except generally to the charge, and afterwards make up
his mind which particular propositions are erroneous. Now

ROGERS V. THE MARSHA .

[Sup- Ct

Opinion of the court.

here the three matters which we excepted to are stated in the
bill of exceptions, and it appears that to those we excepted
according to the practice of the court; that is, severally to each.
3. The question, "what did Mr. Hopkins afterwards say
about the bond?" meant "what did he say about it, after you
had received it and reddivered the property?" and it invited the
witness to testify to what was said a month after such redelivery. This question was objectionable:
1. Because the marshal could not have been induced to
take the bond by anything that was said after he had taken
it; and
2. Because, admitting that what Hopkins said at the time
he objected to the bond, was binding upon Rogers, whom
he was then representing in that behalf; yet, what he afterwards declared or admitted about it, could not bind Rogers.
While no doubt the rule is that where the acts of the agent
will bind the principal, there his representations, declarations and admissions, respecting the subject-matter, will also
bind him, if made at the same time, and constituting part of
the res gestwe; it is equally the rule that this is so, only when
such representations, &c., are made at such same time.
Mr. Lynde, contra.
Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court
as follows :*

1. It is unquestionably true that a marshal is answerable
for the misconduct of his deputy. If Fuller, the deputy, who
served the writ of replevin in the case of Rogers v. Remington & Martin, and took the statutory bond, erased the name
of the principal, without the direction of some one having
authority, he violated a plain duty, and his principal can
justly be held liable. The ofricers of the law, in the execution of process, are obliged to know the requirements of the
law, and if they mistake them, whether through ignorance
* Mr. Chief Justice Taney, and Messrs. Justices Wayne, Grier, and
Field, bad not been present at the argument.

Dec. 1863.]

ROGEIRS v. TEE MARSHAL.
Opinion of the court.

or design, and any one is harmed by their error, they must
respond in damages. But this case involves the extent of
the power of an attorney to control and direct the execution
of process, and the liability of the marshal where the default
of his deputy has been induced by the conduct of the attorney.
The attorney is the agent of his client to conduct his suit
to judgment, and to superintend the execution of final process. It is true that he cannot discharge the defendant from
execution without the money is paid to him;* but his authority is complete to control the remedy which the law
gives him to secure or collect the debt of his client.t And
if the client suffers by the ignorance or indiscretion of the
attorney, the officer shall not be prejudiced, for the attorney
may give such directions to the officer as will excuse him
from his general duty.1 The attorney can give such general
instructions to the officer as he may deem best calculated to
advance the interests of his client, and if followed (erroneous
though they be) they will bind his client and exonerate the
officer.ยง
But it is said that Hopkins, the attorney, never instructed
Fuller to erase Remington's name after the execution of the
bond; which, being done without the knowledge and consent of the sureties, discharged them.
It is clear that no direct and positive instructions were
given; for if there had been, in view of the power of the
attorney to make the officer his agent, no controversy could
have arisen. But the true question is this: Did Hopkins give
such directions to Fuller as were calculated to mislead him,
and must have induced the taking of the defective bonds?
If lie did, the marshal is not chargeable. After Fuller
had taken the property in the replevin case he went to Hop* Jackson v. Bartlett, 8 Johnson, 361.

t Jenney v. Delesdernier, 20 Maine, 183; Kimball & Company v. Perry,
15 Vermont, 414.
1 Walters v. Sykes, 22 Wendell, 568.
Crowder v. Long, 8 Barnewall & Creswell, 605; Gorham v. Gale, 7
Cowen, 739.

ROGERS

v. THE

MARSHAL.

[Sup. t

Opinion of the court.

idns with a bond signed by Remington, the principal, and

Martin or Keefe as sureties. Fuller swears that Hopkins
said "he would not have Remington on the bond at all ;"
while the testimony of Hopkins is, that he "did not want"
Remington's name on the bond. The two statements are
not essentially different. Each would clearly enough convey
the idea that Remington's name must not be on the bond.
Hopkins excepted to the sufficiency of the surety, and told
Fuller, that if he would procure Proudfit's name in addition
to the name already on it, he would be satisfied. Remington was present at the interview, and took the bond away,
and the following morning brought it to Fuller with Proud-fit's
name. Fuller told Remington that he could not receive the
bond, because his name was on it. Remington said that he
would take his name off, and Fuller replied that if he did so,
it would be in accordance with the instructions received
from Hopkins. Remington's name was then erased.
Now it is true that Hopkins did not direct Fuller to erase
Remington's name from the bond, after it was executed,
without the knowledge and consent of the sureties. But it
should be remembered that Fuller was a ministerial officer
and unacquainted with the rules which discharged sureties
from their obligations, while Hopkins was supposed to be
familiar with them. Fuller knew that Hopkins objected to
the retention of Remington's name, while he was satisfied
with Proudfit's in addition to that of Keefe, and, as the bond
complied with the wishes of Hopkins, he had a reasonable
right to infer that it was satisfactory. That Fuller acted
under this belief is evident from the fact that he did not,
until some length of time, say anything further to Hopkins;
and there is nothing in the record to luestion the bong fides
of either Fuller or Remington.
Hopkins had the right to refuse to direct Fuller at all in
relation to the manner in which the bond should be executed, but he had no right to say anything which would
necessarily tend to mislead him. If he had told Fuller, I
will give you no instructions or advice; you are the officer,
and must determine for yourself all questions that arise i1.

Dec. 1863.]

RoGBRs v. THE M"SHAL.
Opinion of the court.

the performance of your duty, then Fuller, having been properly cautioned, could have no right to complain. And it is
fair to infer that he would at once have sought legal advice,
and thereby avoided the difficulties that occurred. But Hopkins chose another course, and what he said was well calculated to mislead Fuller. Any officer of common mind, and
unacquainted with legal proceedings, would have concluded,
from the conversation, that the bond would be satisfactory,
if the additional surety was obtained and Remington's name
left off; and it is clear, from Fuller's testimony, that Hopkins mistook the requirements of the Wisconsin code. Hopkins thought the New York and Wisconsin codes were alike,
but afterwards ascertained his error, and that the Wisconsin
code required the name of the principal on the bond, while
the New York code did not. This admission relieves the
case of all difficulty. It explains the reason of Hopkins in
refusing the bond with the name of Remington on it, and
accounts for the erasure which was made under the direction
of the officer. If Hopkins chose to direct at all about the
manner in which the bond should be executed, it was his
duty, both to his client and the officer, to have taken the
entire supervision of it. Having thought proper, as an attorney, to exercise his right to direct what names should go
on the bond, he cannot, nor can his client, complain that the
officer, in literally fulfilling his wishes in that regard, mistook the law and destroyed the efficacy of the instrument.
When Fuller produced the bond with Remington's name on
it, and Hopkins told him that he must have another surety,
and would not have Remington's name on the bond, why
did he not also inform him that the validity of the bond
required that no erasures should be made after it was signed?
This principle of law he doubtless well knew, and it is reasonable to infer that Fuller was in ignorance of it. The
direction which Hopkihs did give, and his failure to dir'ci
further, caused the loss which followed, and his client should
sifter, and not the marshal.
These views are decisive of this case, The court charged
the jury that it was their province to determine whether the

ROGERS v.

THE MARSHAL.

[Sup.
Ct.
[

Opinion of the court.

erasure was made "in consequence of the interference of
Hopkins, the attorney," and the charge was right. It would
have been better to have used the words "direction" or
"instruction" instead of "interference," but, applying the
evidence in the case, it is manifest that the jury rightfully
interpreted the charge. A nice criticism of words will not
be indulged when the meaning of the instruction is plain
and obvious, and cannot mislead the jury.
2. But it is said that if the court was right in one proposition, it erred in submitting others to the jury.
This is true, but the plaintiffs in error cannot avail themselves of their exception, which was general and not specific.
In Johnston v. Jones* this court say, "It is well settled that
if a series of propositions be embodied in instructions, and
the instructions are excepted to in mass, if any one of the
propositions be correct, the exception must be overnuled."
3.It is urged that the court was in error in permitting the
defendants to ask the witness (Fuller) what Hopkins said
about the bond after Fuller had accepted it and given an
order for the lumber. The exception is to the question, and
not the answer. The question was pertinent and proper. If
Fuller had deviated from the strict line of his duty, yet if
Hopkins adopted what was done, his client cannot hold the
marshal responsible.t And if Hopkins, after being informed
of the circumstances under which Fuller took- the bond,
assented to it, his client is concluded.t It was surely important, then, to ascertain whether that assent was given.
The answer to the question, even if improper testimony,
cannot be complained of here, because no exception was
taken 1o it in the court below. The answer, however, could
not have affected the verdict, and it is not necessary to discuss its pertinency. On the whole, we find no error in the
record, and are not disposed to disturb the finding of the
jury.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED WITH COSTS.

1 Black, 220.

t

Corning & Homer v. Southland, Sheriff, 3 Hill, 552.

4 Stuart v. Whitaker, 2 Carrington &
Id., 154.

Payne, 100; Beynon v. Garrat, 1

