Dec. 1863.]

BURR v. DES MOINES Co.
Opinion of the court.

the measure of damages is the price of the goods.* The
court below, therefore, erred in charging the jury that the
right to sue was in abeyance until the time limited by the
award for the payment of the money had expired.
Inasmuch as this case is to be remanded, it is proper to
say, that in the opinion of the court, the award of the 26th
of January is inoperative and void. Arbitrators exhaust their
power when they make a fnal determination on the matters
submitted to them. They have no power after having made
an award to alter it; the authority cohiferred on them is then
at an end t
• Bayne can, if so advised, amend his pleadings and test the
correctness of the first award; which not being properly in
the case has not been considered by the court, and no opinion
is therefore given on the question of its validity.
JUDGMENT REVERSED AND VENIRE AWARDED.

BURR V. THE DES MOINES RAILROAD AND IAVIGATION
COMPANY.
1. Although this court will give judgment, on error, upon an agreed statement of facts or case stated, if it be signed by counsel and spread upon
the record at large, as part thereof, yet it will not do'so, except upon that
which is professionally and properly known as a case stated; that is to
say, upon a case which states facts simply; not one which presents,
instead of facts, evidence from which facts may or may not be inferred.
2. Legal presumption being in favor of a judgment regularly rendered,
the court, where it does not reverse, nor dismiss for want of jurisdiction, might, in regard to a case which it refused to consider on evidence
Adduced, affirm simply. However, a ease being before it, and having
been argued on its merits, where counsel on both sides erroneously
supposed that they had brought up a case stated, when in fact they
brought up nothing but a mass of evidence, and where they erroneously
supposed, also, that they would obtain an opinion and judgment of this
* 2 Parsons on Contracts, 485-6; Cort et al. v. The Ambergate Railway
Company, 6 English Law and Equity Reports, 237; Hanna v. Mills, 21
Wendell, 90; Rinehart v. Olwine, 5 Watts & Sergeant, 157; Mussen v. Price,
4 East, 147; Dutton v. Solomonson, 8 Bosanquet & Puller, 582.
t Russell on Arbitration, 185.

PURR V. DES MOINES CO.

[Sup. ct.

Statement of the case.
court on the case as, by common consent, they presented it,-the court
benignantly "dismissed" it only; so leaving the parties at liberty to
put the case, if they could, by agreement below, in a shape where it
eould be here reviewed. But the dismission was with costs.

THis was a writ of error, in an action of ejectment, to the
Circuit Court for the District of Iowa; the plaintiff in error
having been also plaintiff below.
The record (or document so called), which was brought
before the Supreme Court, after reciting the pleadings, and
that the parties had appeared and waived a jury, showed that
the following judgment had been rendered by the court
" The evidence having been seen and examined by the court,
and the arguments of counsel heard, it is now considered and
adjudged that the court do find the issue in favor of the defendant, and that the plaintiff take nothing by his petition. Whereupon it is ordered that the defendant recover of the plaintiff his
costs in this behalf expended, taxed, &c., and that he have execution therefor."
Then came a certificate of the clerk to the record, certify.
ing that what preceded the certificate contained "a true,
full, and perfect copy of the plaintiff's petition and replica,
tion, of the defendant's answer, and of all the proceedings of
the court in the above-named cause."
After this followed thirty-six pages of printed matter,
annexed to which was another certificate of the clerk, certifying, "that the foregoing twenty pages of print and wditing
are a true copy of the agreed statement of facts, filed in the
foregoing cause, as the same remains on file, it being all the
evidence upon which the cause was submitted."
This "agreed statement of facts" consisted of acts of Oongress and statutes of Iowa; of opinions of Attorneys-General
of the United States; of decisions of the Secretaries of the
Treasury and Interior Departments, and numerous letters
between those officers and members of Congress, and other
persons interested in the several land grants made by Congress to the State of Iowa for purposes of internal improvement; of various matters admitted by the one party and the

Dec. 1863.]

BURR V. DEs MoiNEs Co.
Opinion of the court.

other; the whole constituting a perplexing mass of law and
evidence. At the close of "the record" was the following
statement:
" If,
upon the whole case, the title of the plaintiff to said lands
has not failed, but, under the defendants' deed to him, and the
subsequent legislation by Congress, he has acquired a good title
to said lands, the defendants are entitled to judgment and to
costs of suit.
"This cause is submitted, without a jury, upon the foregoing
agreed statement of facts; but it is expressly agreed that the
matters and things herein stated are only to be taken for what
they are legally worth; and that all objections on account of
immateriality or irrelevancy are reserved by the parties respectively; and may be urged and considered by the parties, and
by the court, upon the argument and in the decision."
Notwithstanding the reservation of the right to do so, it
appeared that no objection had been taken on the trial to the
materiality or relevancy of any of the mass of testimony above
described, nor to any ruling of the court on the law arising
on the facts. The paper just quoted was not signed by
counsel, nor entered on the record of the court, nor made a
pait of the record of the case by bill of exceptions, or in
any other manner. In fact, no bill of exceptions was taken
in the suit.
Th4 case was argued here, on the large mass of testimony
brought up, on its merits and as if the record had been in
form, by .Jr. Gilbert for the paintffi inerror, and by Messrs.
.Mason and Y1aqy on the other side.
LER,after stating the case, delivered the
Mr. Justice I
opinion of the court:
It is very clear that a paper not signed by counsel, nor
entered on the record of the court, nor made part of the record of the case by bill of exceptions, or in any other manner, cannot be considered by this court as the foundation on
which it is to affirm or reverse the case. It is probable, from
the language of the closing paragraph, that the parties considered it as an agreed statement of facts, on which the court

BURR v. DES M-kOIRES Co.

[S Up. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

below might decide the law, and on which this court would
review that decision. And it is quite true that this court
has decided, in the case of The United States v. Eliason,* and
in several cases since that one, that this may be done.
But in order to bring such a case properly before this
court, two things are essential, which are wanting in the
present case.
1. The agreed statement of facts must, in some manner
in the court below, be made a part of the record of the case.
The case of The United States v. Eliason shows, that it was
strongly urged upon this court that it had been laid down
by Sir Win. Blackstone in his Commentaries, and by Stephen
in his Treatise on Pleadings, that error did not lie on such
a statement. The court, however, said that the reason for
thi. was, that in the English practice, the agreed statement
was not like a special verdict entered on the record, and the
appellate court could not therefore notice it. But that in
the practice of our courts such agreements are signed by
"the counsel, and spread upon the record at large as part
thereof." And thus they become technically a part of the
record, into which the appellate court look, with the other
parts of it, to ascertain if there be error.t
2. The statement of facts on which this court will inquire,
if there is or is not error in the application of the law to them,
is a statement of the ultimate facts or propositions which the
evidence is intended to establish, and not the evidence on
which those ultimate facts are supposed to rest. The statement must be sufficient in itself, without inferences or comparisons, or balancing of testimony, or weighing evidence,
to justify the application of the legal principles which must
determine the case. It must leave none of the functions of
a jury to be discharged by this court, but must have all the
sufficiency, fulness, and perspicuity of a special verdict. If
it requires of the court to weigh conflicting testimony, or to
balance admitted facts, and deduce from these the propositions of fact on which alone a legal conclusion can rest, then
* 16 Peters, 291.

- See also Graham v. Bayne, 18 Howard, 60.

Dec. 1863.]

BURR v. DES MOINES Co.
Opinion of the court.

it is not such a statement as this court can act upon. The
paper before us "is evidence of facts, and not the facts themselves as agreed or found."* It is obvious that if the whole
of this paper were presented by a jury as a special verdict,
it would be objectionable, as presenting the evidence of facts,
and not the facts themselves, which must determine the
issue.
Cases of a character nearly allied to this have been frequently before this court, and'although the opinions delivered
are not always reconcilable in every respect, it is believed
that they speak but one language as to the two propositions
here laid downt
The paper which we have been considering being rejected,
there is nothing before the court by which it can determine
whether the judgment of the court below is right or wrong.
The legal presumption is in favor of the correctness of
that judgment, but as the parties here have all considered
the case as turning on the evidence which we have refused
to consider, and have so argued it, and as it was, no doubt,
prepared with a view to obtaining the opinion of this court
on the case there stated, we have determined to dismiss the
writ of error, thus leaving the parties at liberty, if they can
do so by a proper agreement in the court below, to remove
the diffculties which now prevent this court from reviewing
the case.
CASE DISMISSED WITH COSTS.

* Graham v. Bayne, 18 Howard, 62.
t Pennock v. Dialogue, 2 Peters, 1; The United States V.Eliason, 16Id.,
800; The United States v. King et al., 7 Howard, 844; Bond v. Brown,
12 Id., 256; Weems -. George, 13 Id., 190; Arthurs v. Hart, 17 Id., 7;
Graham v. Bayne, 18 Id., 60.

