Dec. 1863.]

MERCER COUNTY V. HACKET.
Statement of the case.

answered the bill; but whose citizenship is not made to appear
in such a manner that the court can take jurisdiction of the
case as to him.
Under these circumstances, the court is of opinion that
instead of a decree dismissing the bill on the merits, it should
have been dismissed without prejudice for want of jurisdiction. The case will be remanded to the court below with
leave to plaintiffs to amend their bill generally, and if they
shall fail to do this it shall be dismissed without prejudice.
Butterworth is entitled to his costs in this court.
DECREE ACCORDINGLY.

MERCER COUNTY V. RACKET.
1. Where a county issues its bonds payable to bearer, and solemnly pledges
the faith, credit and property of the county, under the authority of an
act of Assembly, referred to on the face of the bonds by date, for their
payment, and those bonds pass, bond fide, into the hands of holders for
value, the county is bound to pay them. It is no defence to the claim
of such a holder that the act of Assembly, referred to on the face of the
bonds, authorized the county to issue the bonds only and subject to certain -restrictions, limitations, and conditions," which have not been
formally complied with; nor that the bonds were sold at less than par,
when the act authorizing their issue and referred to by date on the face
of the instrument, declared that they should, "in no case," nor "under
any pretence," be so sold.
2. Corporation bonds payable to bearer, have, in this day, the qualities of
negotiable instruments. The corporate seal upon them does not change
the case.
8. Commissioners of Knox County v. AspinwaU (21 Howard, 539), and Woods
v. Lawrence County (1 Black, 386), affirmed. Diamond v. Lawrence County
(37 Pennsylvania State, 858), denied.

BY act of Assembly, passed in 1852, the legislature of Pennsylvania authorized the commissioners of Mercer County in
that State to subscribe to the stock of the Pittsburg and Erie
Railroad, which road, if built, would pass through their county
and benefit it. The act, however, contained this proviso:
"_Provided, that the subscription shall be made subject to thefollowing restrictions,limitations,and conditions, and in no other manne

MERCER

COUNTY V. HACKET.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

or way whatever, viz.: all such subscriptions shall be made by the
county commissioners, and shall be made by them after, and not
before, the amount of such subscription shall have been designated,

advised, and recommenaed by a grand jury of said county; and
such bonds shall in no case, or under any pretence, be sold, assigned,
or transferred by the said Railroad Company at less than the par
value thereof: And provided, further, that the acceptance of this
act by the said company shall be deemed also an acceptance of
the provisions of the act passed the 11th day of March, 1851,
entitled An act fixing the gauges of railroads in the County of
Erie."
Rightly or wrongly-with authority or without it-the
bonds to the extent of several thousands of dollars were issued.
The instruments were elegantly engraved, with such external
indications as were calculated to arrest the eye, and through
it to inspire confidence. They were signed by the commissioners of Mercer County, attested by their clerk, and authenticated by the county seal conspicuously put. At the head of
the bonds it was announced that they were issued for stock in
the Pittsburg and Erie Company, and were payable in twenty
years from their date in the city of New York. The words
in the obligatory part of the instrument were as follows:
"Know all men by these presents, that the County of Mercer,
in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, is indebted to the Pittsburg and Erie Railroad Company in the full and just sum of one
thousand dollars, which sum of money said county agrees and
promises to pay, twenty years after the date hereof, to the said
Pittsburg and Erie Railroad Company, or bearer,with interest, at
the rate of six per centum per annum, payable semi-annually on
the first Monday of January and July, at the office of the Ohio
Life Insurance and Trust Company, in the city of New York,
upon the delivery of the coupons severally hereto annexed: for
which payments of principal and interest, well and truly to be made,
the faith, credit and property of the said County of Mercer are hereby
solemnly pledged, under the authority of an act of Assembly of this
Commonwealth, entitled A supplement to the act incorporating the
Pittsburg and Erie Railroad Company, which said act was approved the 21st day of April, A.D. 1846, and which said supple.
ment became a law on the 4th day of May, 1852."

Dec. 1863.]

MERCER COUNTY V. RACKET.
Statement of the case.

A number of the bonds having got, bondfide andfor value
paid, into the possession of one Racket, a citizen of Neew
Hampshire, and the coupons,-thems elves also payable to
bearer,-being due and unpaid, he sued the County of
Mercer upon them, in the Circuit Court for the Western
District of Pennsylvania. Having put the bonds and coupons in evidence, the county now offered to prove that no
such recommendation as was required by the act was made
by the grand jury, but that the jury signed a paper, in*
which they state that they "would recommend the commissioners of Mercer County to subscribe to the capital stock
of the company to such an amount, and under such restrictions as may be required by the act of Assembly authorizing them
to subscribe stock to said road, to an amount not exceeding
$150,000."
The county proposed farther to prove, that
while by the provisions of the act the railroad company was
required to accept "an act fixing the gauges of railroads in
Erie County," before it should be entitled to the benefit of
said act authorizing couunties to subscribe to the capital
stock of said company, the company, by a resolution of the
stockholders, had refused to accept those provisions, and had
declared it to be inexpedient to accept subscriptions made
by counties. All this being offered for the purpose of showing that the commissioners of Mercer County acted illegally
in making the subscription, and in issuing bonds in payment
thereof; and that they issued the same without authority of
law; so that the bonds are not binding upon the county.
The county proposed to prove further, "that the bonds
issued were paid out by the railroad company to contractors
at about sixty-six and two-thirds cents on the dollar; all this
for the purpose of showing that the bonds were procured
from the County of Mercer by misrepresentation and fraud,
and were not binding upon her, and after being thus obtained were disposed of at less than their par value, in violation of the provisions of the act authorizing the county to subscribe
and issue bonds; and also for the purpose of showing want
and failure of consideration."
The court below refused to let such evidence be given;

MERCER

COUNTY V. HACKET.

[Sup. Ct

Argument for the county.

and the suit having accordingly gone against the county,
the correctness of the ruling was the point now considered
here.
Mlir. Stewartfor the county: If the bonds were not issued in
accordance with the requirements of law, which authorized
the commissioners to make a subscription and issue bonds
in payment therefor, they are void.

In Xfercer County v. The

.RailroadCompany,* where the subscription to this same road
by this same county came in question, the Supreme Court
of Pennsylvania decided that there was such a failure on
the part of the grand jury to perform the duty imposed
upon it by the act of the legislature, passed the 4th day of
May, 1852, as rendered the act of the commissioners, in
making the subscription and issuing the bonds, illegal.
The court accordingly rescinded the subscription, and ordered the bonds in possession of the railroad company to be
surrendered. In that case it is decided, that by a proper
and necessary construction of the act all discretionary power
was vested in the grand jury and withheld from the commissioners, and that the grand jury not having designated,
advised and recommended the amount to be subscribed, the commissioners had no authority to make a subscription,-the
performance of the duty enjoined upon the grand jury
having been a prerequisite to vest authority in the commissioners. The act of Assembly requiring certain things as
conditions precedent to the issue of the bonds, and of course

to their validity, is specifically referred to by name and date
in the face of the instruments. This is the same as if it was
set out at length.
If the bonds were issued without legal authority, no subsequent transfer can render them valid.

Even a note,

strictly negotiable, made by an assumed agent who acts
without authority, acquires no increased obligation upon

the principal by passing from hand to hand. There was no
authority proceeding from the principal to put it upon its
* 27 Pennsylvania State, 889.

Dec. 1863.]

MERCER
13
CouNT

v.

TAcKxT.

Argument for the creditor.

course, and be it long or short, it imparts to it no increased
virtue. The inquiry always addresses itself to every one,
Is it the contract of the party whose name it bears? The
responsibility of a correct reply to this inquiry is imposed
upon every one who gives it currency.
Bonds were never recognized by the lex mercatoria as
commercial paper. The distinction between specialties and
simple promises is defined by the common law. The remedies for their enforcement have always been different, and
these lines of distinction have never been obliterated by any
general system of jurisprudence, in this or any other country, with which we have any juridical comity, either as to
their nature or the means of enforcing them. The same
equities which exist between the original parties remain
and follow specialties into whatever hands they may go,
without regard to supervening equities. In no State has this
ancient and salutary rule of law become so fixed as in Pennsylvania. Diamond v. Lawrence County* is a strong case, and
almost in point. The bonds apparently were in the hands
of bondfide holders for value. But the court adverts to the
shocking frauds which had prevailed in obtaining the issue,
and declared that the county was not bound for more than
the railroad had received. The law of the place where the
contract is made, and the obligation there assumed, govern
its construction. Every one making a contract is presumed
to make it with reference to its legal effect, whether direct
or incidental, in the State where it is made; and if this court
were to act on any other principle, our system, political and
judicial alike, would be deranged.
Mr. Loomisfor the bondholder: All the elegance of the engraver's art, all the plighted "faith, credit and property," of
modern finance, all the strength and assurances of language,
have here been used to allure the purchaser. Reference is
made on the face of the bond to an act of Assembly-not to
put him on his guard, lest the preliminary requisition may not
* 87 Pennsylvania State, 858.

MERCER COUNTY

v.

HACKT.

S
[Sup.
Ct

Argument for the creditor.

have been complied with-but to attracthim by evidence that
the instrument is issued under the highest sanction. It had
that effect, and the paper passed readily into the hands of a
confiding holder in the distant State of New Hampshire, as
a safe and secure investment. How can the county now, with
the proceeds of the bond in its treasury-with riches which
the railway will bring to its people in enjoyment-set up the
defence it does, and proclaim to the nations, "Base is the
slave who pays?"
The recommendation of the grand jury was sufficient to
warrant the subscription. If it were not, the county is concluded by Commissioners of Knox County v. Aspinwall, decided
in this court,* from denying the sufficiency. The act, no
doubt, required the amount to be designated by the grand
jury. But the jury signed a paper in which they stated that
they " would recommend" the commissioners to subscribe "to
such an amount and under such restrictions as may be required by the act of Assembly authorizing them to subscribe
stock to said road to an amount not exceeding $150,000."
This is a substantial compliance. Even if there were an irregularity in not designating the precise amount to be subscribed, no decided case renders the subscription void. This
question was before the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, in
Mercer County v. The Railroad Company, and was left undecided; Woodward, J., concurring in the opinion given by
Lewis, J., that a subscription made, without any designation
by the grand jury, was without competent authority and therefore void, Lowrie, J., not concurring, Knox, J., dissenting, and
Black, 0. J., absent. This case is not an authority for anything. The controversy was between the county and the railroad company only. The court directed the bonds ($84,900),
remaining in the possession of the company, to be surrendered
to the county. The remaining $65,100 having been paid to
Johnson & Co., on acc6unt of work under their contract, the
court refused to take action in relation to these bonds, a portion of which was purchased and are now held by the plain* 21 Howard, 545.

Dec. 1863.]

MERCER COUNTY

v.

HACKET.

Argument for the creditor.

tiff. It declares that it leaves undisturbed the question how
far innocent holders of the bonds already negotiated might
be protected. In the County of Lawrence v. The Northwestern
Railroad Company,* a subscription made by the county to
the stock of the Northwestern Railroad Company, was annulled and set aside, "without prejudice, however, to any rights
which third persons may have lawfully acquired as purchasersof
the bonds issued on payment of the said stock." And this ground
is tenable. It is that which the Federal court for the second
circuit (Grier, J.) has always taken. It has said (i), that it
could not understand on what ground the constitutionality
of acts authorizing these subscriptions could be maintained.
But that the State court had maintained it, and that this was
enough; (ii), that though the courts might, from a variety
of causes, restrainan issue not yet made, still when the bonds
were once issued and in the hands of innocent holders for
value, that the county was bound to pay them. The distinction is one entirely obvious.
The bonds in this case import upon their face a compliance
with the law. According to Commissionersof Knox County v.
Aspinwall, the purchaser was not bound to look further for
evidence of a compliance with the conditions of the grant of
the power. The security was sold in a distant market. To
require the purchaser to ascertain, at his peril, from an examination of the records of the county, whether facts authenticated by its proper officers and the seal of the county were
true or not, would involve him in unreasonable trouble and
expense, greatly impair the value and diminish the currency
of such securities.
The act of Assembly did not require the company to accept
the provisions of the gauge law at all. It simply declared in a
proviso, "that the acceptance of this act (May 4th, 1852) by
the said company shall be deemed also an acceptance of the
provisions of the'act fixing the gauge of railroads in the
County of Erie." The acceptance was not made a condition
precedent to the right to receive the benefit of the act autho* 82 Pennsylvania State, 152.

MERCER COUNTY V. RACKET.

[Slip. Ct.

Argument for the creditor.

rizing counties to subscribe, but the acceptance of the act of
1852 involved an acceptance of the gauge law. The act of
1852 was accepted by the company's receiving the subscription of the county and the bonds issued in payment reciting
a full compliance with the requirements of the law. This
would have involved an acceptance of the provisions of the
gauge law, had that law continued in force. It was, however,
repealed before the construction of the igailroad was commenced. A particular fact here requires to be stated: The
report of Mercer County v. The Railroad Company, shows that I
was of counsel for the company. On the trial of a subsequent
cause against the company, I asserted that the case was
decided upon a mistake of fact; the gauge law having been
accepted by the company, evidence of which was before the
court at the time the decision was made, and I read from the
paper book before the court at the time of the decision, and furnished by the counsel of Mercer County, a resolution adopted
at said meeting of stockholders, of the 24th of December,
1851, which proved what I asserted.* When that resolution
was read, one of thejudges, Mr. Justice James Thompson,who
resided at Erie, where the meeting of stockholders was held,
and who had a profoundly intimate knowledge both of the
facts and the law of these cases, remarked, that there was no
doubt about the acceptance of the gauge law. The remaining judges acquiesced in silence. And thus the only support
upon which the decision in that case rested was withdrawn.
That case, having been so decided, is not an authority for
anything.
It is true that in Diamond v. Lawrence County the Supreme
Court of Pennsylvania declared, "We have said, on several
occasions, that we will not treat these bonds as negotiable
securities." The court admits, however, that "on this ground
we stand alone. All the courts, -EnglishandAmerican, are against
us." No reader of modern law will question the truth of the
* The resolution was thus:

"Resolved, That the stockholders of the Pittsburg and Erie Railroad Company here convened, do hereby accept, and do hereby agree to be bound by
the provisions of the act aforesaid, being an act fixing the gauge of railroads
in the County of Erie, approved the llth day of March, 1851."

Dec. 1863.]

MERCER COUNTY V. RACKET.
Argument for the creditor.

sentences italicized.* But that case was exceptional. The
community, in a state of intoxication about railroad subscriptions, had become wild. The voices of men of sense were not
heard in an hour where madness ruled. The court determined
to withstand this folly; the ardor civium pravajubentium. In
taking a position, the judge, it is true, gives a "flash of his
cimeter" sufficiently alarming. But he did not mean to
place his court in opposition to all the tribunals which the
world most respects; nor, construing his announcement in
a reasonable way, does he do so. At the moment when the
transfer of the bond in suit was made there was a bill in
equity pending, to restrain the transfer of all bonds of that
sort; and his chief reliance was on this fact.t Bona fides
was scarce predicable in law of the transaction involved.
And the language of the judge himself, in one part of his
opinion, shows how little the dictum relied on by the other
side .entered into the grounds of the decree. It was but an
answer to the argument, too much pressed at the bar, of
what some courts in other States had done, and it meant no
more than that the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania would
not decree plain injustice upon the example of any or of all
the courts of Christendom. After all, however, the court did
not declare the bonds void. It allowed a recovery for what
the railway company had actually received. The disrespect
wrongly supposed to have been here expressed for precedent, and the apparent disregard of vested interests, de* See 1 American Leading Cases, note to Overton v. Tyler; 1 Smith's
Leading Cases, note to Millsr v. Race.
- " It is manifest from this statement," says Woodward, J., in giving that
part of the opinion which is at p. 355, "that the bond now in suit was transferred by the company in contempt of the authority of this court. After the
service of the subpcena in the equity suit, the company had no authority,
.Considering
under any pretence whatever, to part with a bond ......
the extracrdinary notoriety which attended the equity suit against the
railroad company, we think the rule is applicable here without that limitation. And according to that rule, the suit was notice to all the world, of all
the facts alleged in the pleadings; so that this plaintiff stands in no better
situation for enforcing the bond against the county than the company themDiamond v. Lawrence County, 87 Pennsylvania
selves would stand."
State, 853.

MERCER COUNTY V. HACKET.

[Sul).t

Opinion of the court.

stroyed with the profession everywhere the value of a case
which, if the assumption of the court that bonafides did not
exist was true, was itself rightly decided. The case was
not well received in Pennsylvania when it was reported, and
the clearer sense of the court is expressed in subsequent
decisions, which, if -Diamond v. Lawrence County decided
what some have supposed, certainly overrule it. In the
case of The Commonwealth v. The City of Pittsburg,* it was
declared that "the holder of bonds, made payable to bearer,
has a right to presume that they were issued and transferred
in the mode agreed upon by the original parties; that he is
not affected by any agreement between the obligor and obligee, that the latter should provide for the payment of the
interest thereon." This case goes almost the length of that
of Commissioners of Knox County v. Aspinwall, as to the presumptions that arise in favor of the holder of this species
of paper.
Why shall such instruments not be regarded as having the
qualities of negotiable paper? When issued by corporations,
as they always are, they are necessarily under seal; but they
do not from that fact alone become specialties. A corpora,
tion, if speaking or acting in form, can speak or act only by
the medium of a seal. It is the way in which as an artificial person it acts, or expresses itself; as natural ones express themselves by handwriting simply.
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court:
The bonds declare on their face that the faith, credit, and
property of the county is solemnly pledged, under the authority of certain acts of Assembly, and that in pursuance of
said act the bonds were signed by the commissioners of the
county. They are on their face complete and perfect; exhibiting no defect in form or substance; and the evidence
offered is to show the recitals on the bonds are not true; not
that no law exists to authorize their issue, but that the bonds
* 34 Pennsylvania State, 496; and see Commonwealth j. Commissioners
of Alleghany County, 37 Id., 237; Same v. Same, 32 Id., 218.

Dec.1863.]

MERCER COuNTY v. HACKET.
Opinion of the court.

were not made "in pursuance of the acts of Assembly" authorizing them.
We have decided in the case of Commissioners of Knox
County v. As~pnwall,* that where the bonds on their face import a compliance with'the law under which they were issued,
the purchaser is. not bound to look further. The decision of
the board of commissioners may not be conclusive in a direct
proceeding to inquire into the facts before the rights and interests of other parties had attached; but after the authority
has been executed, the stock subscribed, and the bonds issued and in the hands of innocent holders, it would be too
late, even ina direct proceeding, to call it in question.
The case of lfercer County v. The _Railroadt has been
cited as governing this case. But on examination it will be
found not to contradict the doctrine we have just stated.
That was a bill in equity, praying an injunction against the
issuing of a portion of the bonds not yet delivered over to the
company, or negotiated by them. It charged that the commissioners had not pursued the conditions, limitations, and
restrictions of the act that authorized their issue; that, by
the act, "all such subscriptions shall be made after and not
before the amount of such subscriptions shall have been
designated, advised, and recommended by a grandjury," whereas
the grand jury only "recommended that the commissioners
of Mercer County subscribe to the capital stock of the
Pittsburg and Erie Railroad, to such amount and under such
restrictions as may be required by the act of Assembly, by
authorizing them to subscribe, to an amount not exceeding
$150,000." The bill'charged also most gross frauds perpetrated by the company, which fully justified the decree
of the court, without resorting to the very ingenious and
rather astute criticism of the phraseology of the grand jury.
It is true they recommend only, and have not used the
words "designate and advise" a subscription not to exceed
$150,000. It would require no great latitude of construction
to treat this, as the commissioners might justly do, as a
* .21 Howard, 645.

t27 Pennsylvania State, 889.

MERCER COUTY V. HACKET.

[Sup. (,t.

Opinion of the court.

substantial compliance with the act. But it would be contrary to good faith and common justice to permit them
to allege a newly discovered construction of an equivocal
power, after they have sold the bonds, and they have passed
(as is admitted in this case) into the hands of bond fide
purchasers for value. It is proper to state that the construction given has the assent of only two of the judges of
that learned court, so that it has not the force of precedent
even if it applied to this case. But it is due also to them
to say, that they intimate no opinion as to how far the
reasons given for enjoining the further issue of the bonds
ought to affect their validity in the hands of "innocent
holders."
The proviso to the act authorizing the subscription declares, "that the acceptance of this act shall be deemed also
an acceptance of the provisions of the act passed the eleventh
day of May, 1851, entitled 'An act fixing the gauges of railroads in the County of Erie."' Now it is very plain that the
acceptance of the bonds authorized by this act, operated
per se as an acceptance of the gauge law. It needed no resolution of the railroad corporation on their minutes. They
were estopped by law after receipt of the bonds, until they
were afterwards released by statute from the condition. But
if that were not sufficient, it may be stated as a matter of
history, that on the 24th of December, 1851, the stockholders
passed a resolution "accepting and agreeing to be bound by
the provisions of the act aforesaid, being an act fixing the
gauge of railroads in Erie County." This fact, though overlooked in the case last mentioned, was afterwards brought
to the notice of the same court, on the trial of a subsequent
cause between the same parties. As any subsequent resolution of the railroad company refusing compliance with
this condition annexed by statute to their acceptance of the
county subscriptions would be fraudulent and void, the court
did not err in refusing to admit the evidence offered, or to
permit the defendants to prove that the recitals of their
bonds were untrue.
2. Can evidence of the fraud practised by the railroad

Dec. 1863.]

MERCER COU=

v. flACKET.

Opinion of the court.

company to whom these bonds were delivered, and by whom
they were paid to bond fide holders "forvalue, or the fact
that they were negotiated at less than their par value, be received to defeat the recovery of the plaintiff below?
This species of bonds is a modern invention, intended to
pass by manual delivery, and to have the qualities of negotiable paper; and their value depends mainly upon this
character. Being issued by States and corporations, they
are necessarily under seal. But there is nothing immoral
or contrary to good policy in making them negotiable, if
the necessities of commerce require that they should be so.
A mere technical dogma of the courts or the common law
cannot prohibit the commercial world from inventing or
using any species of security not known in the last century.
Usage of trade and commerce are acknowledged by courts
as part of the common law, although they may have been
unknown to Bracton or Blackstone. And this malleability
to suit the necessities and usages of the mercantile and commercial world is one of the most valuable characteristics of
the common law. When a corporation covenants to pay to
bearer and gives a bond with negotiable qualities, and by
this means obtains funds for the accomplishment of the useful enterprises of the day, it cannot be allowed to evade the
payment by parading some obsolete judicial decision that a
bond, for some technical reason, cannot be made payable to
bearer.
That these securities are treated as negotiable by the commercial usages of the whole civilized world, and have received the sanctions of judicial recognition, not only in this
court,* but of nearly every State in the Union, is well known
and admitted.
But we have been referred to the case of )kmondv. Lawrence County,t for a single decision to the contrary. The
learned judge who delivered the opinion of the court in that
case says, "We will not treat these bonds as negotiable securities. On this ground we stand alone. All the courts, Amern*White

t

v. Vermont Railroad Co., 21 Howard, 576. -

87 Pennsylvania State, 858.

MERCER COUNTY V. ITACKET.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

can and E1nglish, are against us. We know the history of these
municipal and county bonds, how the legislature, yielding
to popular excitement about railroads, authorized their issue;
how grand jurors and county commissioners and city officers
were moulded to the purposes of speculators; how recklessly railroad officers abused the overwrought confidence of
the public, and what burdens of debt and taxation have resulted to the people,-a moneyed security was thrown upon
the market by the paroxysm of the public mind," &c.
If this decision of that learned court was founded on the
construction of the constitution or statute law of the State,
or the peculiar law of Pennsylvania as to titles to land, we
would have felt bound to follow it. But we have often de.
cided that on questions of mercantile or commercial law,
or usages which are not peculiar to any place, we do not feel
bound to yield our own judgment, especially if it be fortified
by the decision of" all other English and American courts."
These securities are not peculiar to Pennsylvania, pr governed
by its statutes or peculiar law.
Although we doubt not the facts stated as to the atrocious
frauds which have been practised, in some counties, in issuing
and obtaining these bonds, we cannot agree to overrule our
own decisions and change the law to suit hard cases. The
epidemic insanity of the people, the folly of county officers,
the knavery of railroad "speculators," are pleas which might
have just weight in an application to restrain the issue or
negotiation of these bonds, but cannot prevail to authorize
their repudiation, after they have been negotiated and have
come into the possession of bond fide holders.
In the case of Woods v. Lawrence County,* as a corollary
from the principles stated, we have decided, that in a suit
brought on the coupons of these bonds by a bontfide holder,
his right to recover is not affected by the fact that the railroad
company sold the bonids at a discount, contrary to the provisions of their charter, which forbids the sale of them at less
than their par value.
* 1 Black, 386.

Drsc. 1863.]

BAYNE v. M0RRtis.
Statement of the case.

As the evidence offered, and overruled by the court, could
not have established a defence to the case made by the plaintiff below, the court did not err in refusing to receive it.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED WITH COSTS.

BAYNE v. MorRis.
I. Where an award made under submission by parties plaintiff and defendant to that effect, awards that one party shall pay to the other a certain
sum on one day specified, another sum on another day specified, and that
to secure the payments he shall give a bond in a penal sum, and the
party against whom the award is made refuses to do any of the things
awarded, an action of debt will lie against him even although the timer
when both sums of money were awarded to be paid has not yet arrived.
'1'he right of action is perfect on the party's refusal to give the bond.
2. The power of arbitrators is exhausted when they have once finally determined matters before them. Any second award is void.

BAYNE & MORRIS having differences with each other, agreed

to refer them to arbitrators, who besides being authorized to,
determine the amount to be paid, were authorized to award
upon what terms, as to time and security, the payment should be
made. On the 23d of January, 1858, the arbitrators made
an award, and on the 26th of the same month made a second
one. Both were received in evidence on the trial below,
although the pleadings were fiamed solely with reference to
the last one. This adjudged that Morris should pay to Bayne
one sum on the 28th of July, 1858; a second sum on the 20th
of January, 1859; and a third sum on the 20th of January,
1860; andthat to secure the payment of these sums he should
give to Bayne a bond with penalty and surety. No bond
being given, Bayne, on the 28th of January, 1858, that is to
say, before any of the sums awarded to be paid had fallen due, sued
Morris in an action of debt; the declaration setting forth,
that "the defendant hath not given the said plaintiff the said
bond for the security of the payments aforesaid, although
often thereto requested; nor hath he paid the said money
nor any part thereof, but the same to pay hath refused;
whereby an action hath accrued to the said plaintiff to have
VOL. 1.

7

