166

SWEENY V. EASTER.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
SWEENY ET AL. V. EASTER.
1. The indorsement of negotiable paper with the words "for collection,"
restrains its negotiability; and a party who has thus indorsed it, is
competent to prove that he was not the owner of it, and did not mean
to give title to it or to its proceeds when collected.
2 Where a banker, having mutual dealings with another banker, is in the
habit of transmitting to him in the usual course of business negotiable
paper for collection, the collection being in fact sometimes on account
of the transmitting banker himself, and sometimes on account of his
customers, and fails, owing his corresponding banker a balance in general account,i.Such corresponding banker cannot retain to answer that balance
any paper so transmitted for collection, and really belonging to third
persons, if he knew it was sent for collection merely.
ii. Neither can he retain it, if he did not know that it was so sent,
unless he have given credit to the transmitting banker, or have suffered a balance to remain in his hands, to be met by the paper transmitted or expected to be transmitted in the usual course of dealings
between them.
iii. But if the receiving banker have treated the transmitting
banker as owner of the transmitted paper, and bad no notice to the
contrary, and upon the credit of such remittances, made or anticipated in the usual course of dealing between them, balances were
from time to time suffered to remain in the hands of the transmitting
and now failed banker, to be met by proceeds of such negotiable paper
transmitted, then the receiving banker is entitled to retain the paper
or its proceeds against the banker sending it, for the balance of account due him, the receiving banker aforesaid.
8. A charge which lays down the law in this way upon the case supposed,
is correct; and as respects the knowledge of or notice to the receiving
banker, it is unimportant from what source he have derived it; nor
need instructions in such a case as is above supposed be given on that
point.
4. Instructions are rightly withheld, which would refer to the jury the interpretation of the indorsement on negotiable paper; and leave them
to determine a case, special in its circumstances, on the face of the
paper and the custom of bankers generally; which, for example, in a
case where paper was indorsed "for collection," and where, by the course
of dealing between the parties, paper was frequently sent for collection
only, would leave the jury to find that title passed generally, becuse
bankers testified that, by the gencralcustom and usageof bankers, negotiable paper, indorsed as mentioned, and transmitted for collection, would
De held and treated as the property of the banker transmitting it.

EASTER & Co. brought trover, in the Circuit Court for the
District of Columbia, against Sweeny, Rittenhouse, Fant

Dec. 1863.]

SWEENY v. EASTER.

Statement of the cmse.

& Co., bankers of Washington City, to recover the value of
certain negotiable notes belonging to them, the first named
persons, and which they had indorsed in blank and placed
in the hands of Harris & Sons, bankers of Baltimore, for collection and fdr no other purpose. Harris & Sons forwarded the
notes to Sweeny, Rittenhouse, Fant & Co., who were their
correspondents in Washington, having first indorsed them
thus:
"Pay Sweeny, R., F. & Co., or order, for collection.
SAM'L HARRIS & SONS."

Before the notes fell due, Harris & Sons failed, owing
Sweeny, Rittenhouse, Fant & Co., a balance in general account. The last-named house claimed, accordingly to hold
this paper, forwarded to them as before said, to cover whatever sum might be found due on a settlement. And this
was the defence to the suit.
At the trial of the cause the plaintiffs offered R. H. Harris,
one of the firm of Harris & Sons, to prove that the notes in
controversy were the property of plaintiffs, and that they
had deposited them with Harris & Sons for collection only.
The defendants objected to the witness on the ground of his
being one of the indorsers. The court overruled the exception.
On being held competent, the witness testified that the
plaintiffs, after their indorsement in blank, continued to be
the owners of the notes, and that such iudorsement was
merely to enable Harris &Sons to collect; that Harris & Sons,
in remitting discounted paper, having time to run, to the
defendants, indorsed the same generally, "Pay to the order
of," without saying, "for collection," and that where paper
was not discounted, but deposited for collection, it was the
practice of Harris & Sons to notify to the defendants, either
by a mark on the paper or by the letter of advice, not to
protest the same, and that the private transactions between
Harris & Sons and the defendants were kept distinct from
their business as collection agents, and were carried on by
Harris & Sons in separate letter-books.
* On .ross-examinationhe testified, that this practice 6f Harris

SWEENY V. EASTER.

[Sup. or.

Statement of the case.

& Sons, of distinguishing in transmitting paper to the defendants, was not uniform, but depended on the wish of the customer depositing the paper not discounted, and that it extended only to paper having time to run, and did not apply
to checks, or sight drafts, or other cash paper, as to which
the business was managed as if Harris & Sons were the absolute owners of the paper; and that said practice was only
the private practice of Harris . Sons, and that witness never informed defendants of the same, nor did he know they were ever
informed thereof; nor, so far as he knows, did they ever have any
information as to the practiceof Harris d Sons of keeping distinct
the business relating to discounted time paper and to time paper
belonging to customers, by the use of separate letter-books, or otherwise, as testified by him.
The defendants then proved that for about two years prior
to the date of these transactions, there had been mutual and
extensive dealings between them and Harris & Sons; that
Harris & Sons transmitted, from time to time, to the defendants, negotiable paper for collection; and that, by the uniform course of dealing between the parties, Harris & Sons
were treated and dealt with as the owners of the paper so
transmitted; that accounts current were kept by the defendants, in which the proceeds of such paper were, when received, credited to said Harris & Sons, and they were charged
with all expenses; and that accounts were transmitted
monthly to said Harris & Sons, and acquiesced in by them:
that upon the credit of such negotiable paper so transmitted
or expected in the ordinary course of business, and of such
course of dealings, large drafts were drawn from time to
time by Harris & Sons, and paid by the latter, and that, upon
such credit, large ascertained balances were allowed to remain in the hands of said Harris & Sons, to be met by the
proceeds of such negotiable paper; and that, in all respects,
the paper so transmitted was regarded, treated, and dealt
with by the defendants, and said Harris & Sons, as the property of the latter; and that a similar course of dealing obtained in regard to negotiable paper transmitted by defendants to said Harris & Sons; that the notes in controversy

Dec. 1863.]i

SWEEN-Y V. EASTER.
Statement of the case.

were regarded, and dealt with as the property of Harris &
Sons, and that the defendants had no notice or knowledge,
until after the insolvency, that this paper was not their property, or that the plaintiffs had any interest in it; and that,
the balance due the defendants on general account, at the
time of the insolvency, had been suffered to remain undrawn,
on the faith and credit of the paper in controversy, and the
course of dealing aforesaid. The defendants further proved
that Harris & Sons, at a date specified, and about three
months before the failure, when there was a balance against
them, on general account, of $3326.94, had drawn on the
defendants for $244.08, the defendants beig then the holders of
a large amount of negotiable paper, indorsed and transmitted in
the same manner as the notes in controversy, and among it certain
notes, indorsed by the plaintiffs in blank, and transmitted in a similar manner to the notes in controversy. And the defendants
offered evidence, by witnesses largely engaged in the business of banking, that by the general custom and usage of
bankers, negotiable paper transmitted and indorsed as the
notes in controversy, would be held and treated as the property of the bankers transmitting them.
The court instructed the jury as follows:
"1. If Sweeny, Rittenhouse, Fant & Co., the defendants in this
action, at the time of the mutual dealings between them and
S. Harris & Sons, had notice that Harris & Sons had no interest
in the notes in question, and that they transmitted them for
collection merely as agents, then the defendants are not entitled
to retain against the plaintiffs for the general balance of their
account with S. Harris & Sons.
"2. And if the defendants had not notice that Harris & Sons
were merely agents, but regarded and treated them as the owners
of the paper transmitted, yet the defendants are not entitled to
retain against the real owners, unless credit was given to Harris
& Sons, or balances suffered to remain in their hands to be met
by the negotiable paper transmitted, or expected to be transmitted, in the usual course of dealing between them.
"3. But if the defendants regarded and treated Harris & Sons
as the owners of the negotiable paper which they transmitted for
collection, and had no notice to the contrary, and upon the ere

[70

SWEENY V. EASTER.

[Sup. Ct

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

dit of such remittances made, or anticipated, in the usual course
of dealing between them, balances were from time to time suffered to remain in the hands of Harris & Sons, to be met by the
proceeds of such negotiable paper, then the defendants are entitled to retain against the plaintiffs for the balance of account
due from Sam. Harris & Sons."
No exception was taken by the defendants to these instructions; but they prayed the following additi'onalinstructions,
to wit:
"That the private practice of Harris & Sons, in transmitting
negotiable paper having time to run, whereby they intended
to distinguish between negotiable paper discounted by them
and that received for collection, as given in evidence by the
witness Harris, was not competent to charge the defendants
with notice as to whether the paper in controversy was discounted by and belonged to the said Harris & Sons, or was
transmitted for collection, unless the jury shall find from all the
evidence in the case, that the defendants had knowledge of such
private practice. And that in the absence of such knowledge the
defendants were authorized to treat such paper according to what it
purported on its face to be, and the general custom of bankers in the
District of Columbia and elsewhere offered in evidence."
This instruction the court declined to give. The jury
found for the plaintiff.
Two exceptions were taken in the case.
The first, to the admission of R. H. Harris, one of the firm
which indorsed the paper, to prove what he did prove.
The second, to the refusal of the court to give the additional
instruction asked for.
Mr. Liavidge, for the plaintiff in error, contended:
1. That the effect of the testimony of R. H. Harris was to
vary the legal import of the paper; a matter which, as the
paper was negotiable and he a party to it, he could not do;
it being settled in this court that a party to such paper
cannot be permitted either to invalidate or contradict it, or
to vary its legal import. Upon this point he cited decisions
in this court, as follows: Bank of the United States v. _Dunn

Dec. 1863.]

SWEENY v. EASTER.
Argument for the defendant in error.

(6 Peters, 51); Bank of the Metropolis v. Jones (9 Id., 12);
Henderson v. Anderson (3 Howard, 73); Saltmarsh v. Tathill
(13 Id., 229).
2. That the court should have given additionalinstructions
to the jury, as prayed, that the private practice of Harris &
Sons was of no effect unless the defendants knew of it, &c.
The instructions given did not cover the whole case. They
related to the facts to be found in support of a verdict for
either party; while the instruction asked for and rejected
related exclusively to a rule of evidence to guide the jury in
the ascertainment of one of those facts, to wit, the fact of
notice.
.Mr. J. 1. Bradley, contra:
1. The reason of the rule asserted by the law for rejecting
an indorser of negotiable paper, fails. The house to which
the witness belonged had not by indorsement assisted to give
currency to the notes. They had done the reverse of it by
the peculiarity of their indorsement; an indorsement which
gave notice to every one that the notes were held and transmitted for collection only. "A negotiable bill or note," said
Chief Justice Gibson, of Pennsylvania,* "is a courier without luggage. A memorandum to control it, though indorsed.
upon it, would be incorporated with it, and destroy it." The
expression here used, "for collection," is luggage, which the
note could not carry, and yet remain free. The witness not
haviog assisted to give currency to the paper, but having
destroyed the currency, was competent, though he indorsed
paper originally negotiable.
2. The instruction refused limits the direction of the court
to the fact that the defendants had knowledge of the private
practie of Harris & Sons, in indorsing paper deposited with
them for collection, and excludes every other source of knowledge that the paper claimed by plaintiffs was their property,
and never had been the property of Harris & Sons; and
asks the court to instruct the jury that in the absence of such
knowledge, that is of the alleged private practice of llaris t
* Overton v. Tyler, 8 Pennsylvania State, 348.

SWEENY V). :EASTER.

[Sul). t

Opinion of the court.

Sons, the defendants had a right to treat such paper according to what it purported on its face, &c.
The court could not have given such an instruction with.
out invading the province of the jury, and determining the
weight of the other evidence in the cause.
The court had already submitted the cause to the jury on
instructions, not excepted to; and this instruction asks them
to segregate a single part of the evidence, and to say that
this single part, standing alone, was not sufficient to establish the plaintiffs' right to recover. To have granted this
would have been to mislead the jury from the points clearly
and precisely prescribed in the instructions previously given.
Mr. Justice MIMLER delivered the opinion of the court :*
The first exception was to the admission of IR.H. Harris,
of the firm of Harris & Sons, as a witness.
Neither that firm nor any of its members were parties to
the suit, nor is it pretended that the witness was in any manner interested in the event of it. But it is claimed that
because the name of the firm of which he is a partner, is
indorsed on the negotiable paper which is the subjectmatter of this suit, he cannot, being a party to such paper,
be permitted to invalidate, or contradict it, or vary its legal
import.
The objection as thus stated embraces two distinct propositions. First,that a-party to a negotiable instrument shall
not be permitted to 'impeach or render invalid, the paper
with which he thus stands connected. Second, that he cannot
be permitted to contradict or vary the legal import of the
original paper, or such indorsement as -hemay have made on
it, by parol testimony.
The latter objection applies to the character of the evidence,
without regard to the person offered as a witness, and would
be as effectual against testimony from the mouth of a person
who had no connection with the paper, as from an indorser
or maker of it.
* Mr. Chief Justice Taney and Messrs. Justices Wayne and Grier, being
inlisposed, were absent.

Dec. 1863.]

SWEENY V). :EASTER.

Opinion of the court.

This is not a suit on the paper, or against any of the parties
to it. It is an action of trover, for the wrongful conversion
of the paper, in which plaintiffs seek to recover its value.
The firm of Harris & Sons sent it to defendants, who were
their banking correspondents, for collection; and they made
a special indorsement on it, thus: "Pay Sweeny, B., F. & Co.,
for collection. SAm. HAnIus &

SONS."

Now, does this testimony of the witness, to the effect that
Harris & Sons were not the owners of the paper, and did not
sell it to defendants, or intend to give them any lien on, or
title to the paper, or its proceeds when collected, contradict
or vary the legal import of this indorsement? We cannot
see that it does. It rather explains the transaction in perfect
conformity with the real meaning and effect of the indorsement. The words "for collection" evidently had a meaning.
That meaning was intended to limit the effect which would
have been given to the indorsement without them, and
warned the party that, contrary to the purpose of a general
or blank indorsement, this was not intended to transfer the
ownership of the note or its proceeds. If defendants acquired
any interest in the paper, it was not by virtue of that indorsement, but by some course of dealing with Harris & Sons, or
by some other matter outside of the indorsement. The character of this indorsement also takes the case out of the rule
asserted in the first proposition embraced by the exception.
Perhaps no subject connected with commercial paper has
been more the subject of controversy, and of opposing and
well-balanced judicial decisions, than the proposition here
relied on. It was first laid down in the English courts in
the case of Walton v. Shelley,* and afterwards held the other
way in Jordaine v. Lashbrooke.t This court, however, has
steadily adhered to the doctrine of Walton v. Shelley, and we
are referred by counsel for plaintiffs in error to our own
decisions on this subject in 6 Peters, 51; 8 Peters, 12; 3
Howard, 78; i8 Howard, 229.
The rule propounded in Walton v. Shelley is, that a person
* 1 Term, 296.

t 7 1& 601.

SWEENY V. E ASTE.R.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

who has placed his name on a negotiable paper as a party to
it, shall not afterwards, in a suit on such security, be com-

petent as a witness to prove any fact which would tend to
impeach or invalidate the instrument to which he has thus
given his name. The reason of it is, that it is against good
morals and public policy to permit a person who has thus
aided in giving currency and circulation to such paper, to
testify to facts which would render such paper void, after he
has thus imposed it upon the public as valid, with all the
sanction which his name could give it.*
The indorsement in the present case was not intended to
give currency or circulation to the paper. Its effect was
just the reverse. It prevented the further circulation of the
paper, and its effect was limited to an authority to collect it.
No principle of public policy would be violated, nor any
fraud upon innocent holders of the paper would be perpetrated, by permitting the parties who made that indorsement
to testify to facts which are in perfect harmony with its language and its intent.
Again, the testimony does not tend to invalidate the paper,
or any indorsement on it. The defendants cbuld not have
recovered of Harris & Sons on that indorsement if the notes
had been protested in their hands; and they were therefore
deprived by that testimony of no right which the indorsement gave them; nor was such indorsement impeached or
impaired by the testimony.
This exception must be overruled.
The second exception was taken to the refusal of the cort
to grant an instruction to the jury prayed by plaintiffs in
error. The instruction asked is as follows:
"And the private practice of Harris & Sons, in transmitting negotiable paper having time to run, whereby they intended to distinguish between negotiable paper discounted
by them and that received for collection, as given in evidence
by the witness Harris, is not competent to charge the defendants with notice as to whether the paper in controversy was
* Walton v. Shelley, 1 Term, 296; Bank of United States v. Dunn, 6
Peters, 57; Bank of the Metropolis v. Jones, 8 Id., 16.

Dec. 1863.]

GELPCKE V. CITY OF DUBUQUE.

175

Opinion of the court.

discounted by and belonged to the said Harris & Sons, or
was transmitted for collection, unless the jury shall find, from
all' the evidence in the case, that the defendants had knowledge of such private practice; and in the absence of such
knowledge, the defendants were authorized to treat such
paper according to what it purported on its face, and the
general custom of bankers in the District of Columbia and
elsewhere, offered in evidence."
This prayer contains two propositions, the one relating to
the knowledge of defendants of certain private modes of doing
business of Harris & Sons; and the other, to what the jury
were authorized to infer, from certain other circumstances,
in the absence of such knowledge on the part of defendants.
The instructions which were given by the court, and which
are in the record, were full and sound on the first of these
propositions, and we think were all that was necessary on
both branches of the prayer. But the second branch of the
instruction asked is objectionable, because it referred to the
jury the interpretation of the indorsement on the paper, and
also required of them to determine the case on the face of
the paper, and the custom of bankers alone, without reference to the special facts proven in regard to the course of
dealing between defendants and Harris & Sons. The charge
of the court left all these matters of fact to the jury for their
consideration, after a full and fair statement of all the principles of law which were necessary to a sound verdict.
We see no error in the record, and therefore the judgment
of the Circuit Court is
AFIRMED WITH COSTS.

GELPcKE ET AL. V. THE CITY OF DUBUQUE.
1. By a series of decisions of the Supreme Court of Iowa prior to that,
A.D. 1859, in The State of Iowa, ex relatione,v. The County of Wapello (13
Iowa, 888), the right of the legislature of that State to authorize municipal corporations to subscribe to railroads extending beyond tho
limits of the city or county, and to issue bonds accordingly, was settled
in favor of the right; and those decisions, meeting with the approbation

