UNITED STATES V. YORIBA.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

UNITED STATES V. YORBA.
1. Where the usual preliminary proceedings to the issue of a Mexican grant
in colonization are preserved in the archives of the former government,
the proof of the signatures of the grantor and attesting secretary will
be deemed by the Supreme Court sufficient to establish the genuineness
and due execution of the grant, unless objection is taken to its sufficiency before one of the inferior tribunals. The United States v. Auguisola (ante, p. 852), approved.
2. The fact that Mexico declared, through her commissioners who negotiated the treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo, that no grants of land were
issued by the Mexican governors of California, after the 13th of May,
1846, does not affect the right of parties who, subsequent to that date,
obtained grants from the governors whilst their authority and j urisdiction continued. The authority and jurisdiction of Mexican officers in
California are regarded as terminating on the 7th of July, 1846. The
political department of the government has designated that day as the
period when the conquest of California was completed, and the Mexican officers were displaced, and in this respect the judiciary follows the
action of the political department.
3. The absence from a Mexican grant in colonization of conditions requiring cultivation and inhabitancy and the construction of a house within
a year, does not affect the validity of the grant.

THIS was an appeal by the United States from the decree of
the District Court for the Southern District of California.
The respondent claimed a tract of land, called La Sierra,
situated in the present county of Los Angeles, State of California; and in October, 1852, presented a petition to the Board
of Commissioners, created by the act of March 3d, 1851, to
ascertain and settle private land claims in California, asking for the confirmation of their title. In November, 1854,
the board rejected his claim; but on appeal to the District
Court the claim was, in December, 1856, adjudged valid,
and confirmed to the extent of four square leagues. From
this decree the appeal was taken.
In support of his claim the respondent produced, from
the archives of the former government, in the custody of
the Surveyor-General of California, his petition to the governor for the land, the reference by him to the local authorities
for information, and their reports on the subject; also, various
proceedings had with reference to an adverse interest in the
land, asserted by the widow of his deceased brother, and a

Dec. 1863.]

UNITED STATES V.

YORDA.

Statement of the case.

draft or copy of the grant issued. He also produced the
grant delivered to him, which was issued by Governor Pie
Pico on the 15th of June, 1846. It is signed by the governor,
and tested by his secretary of state; but neither the governor
nor secretary were called to prove the execution of the grant.
The genuineness of their signatures was proved by a third
party, no objection being taken to its sufficiency at the time
by the law agent of the United States, who was present at
the examination of the witness.
The grant was, apparently, much in the form common to
these grants, except that it had not the usual requirements
or conditions, requiring cultivation, inhabitancy, and the
construction of a house within a year.*
The respondent also proved that he had been for several
years previous to receiving the grant in the occupation and
use of the land in connection with his deceased brother.
* Its exact form, translated, was as follows:
PIO P icO, CoNSTITUTIOWAL GovznNoR OF THE DEPAUTMEXT

OF THE

CALIFORNIAS:

*Wbereas, the citizen Bernardo Yorba has asked, for his personal benefit
and that of his family, a piece of land which for many years he has legally
possessed, called the Sierra, on the banks of the River Santa Ana, bounded
by the said river and the rancho of Temiscal, the proper proceedings having
been taken and inquiries made, in the exercise of the powers which are
conferred upon me, in the name of the M1exican nation, Ihnve, by a decree
of this day, granted him the said land, declaring it his property by these
presents, in conformity to the law of the 18th of August, 1824, and the
21st of N~ovember, 1828, subject to the approval of the
regulation of the
Assembly, and under the following conditions :
Departmental
have power to inclose it, without injury to.the er3ssings,
1st. He
and shall
servitudes; he shall enjoy it freely and exclusively, applying it
roads,
to the use and cultivation which may best suit him.
the proper judge to give him the judicial possession
He of~
shall
thissolicit
decree, by whom the boundaries shall be marked with the
virtue
in 2d.
necessary monuments.
3d. The land of which donation is made is four leagues "de ganado
,mayor."
The judge who shall give the possession shall have it measured in conformity to the ordinance, leaving the surplus, if any remains, to the nation,
for the purposes for which it may be required.
Wherefore I order that this title, being held firm and valid, be rworded
in the proper book, and be delivered to the party interested for his security,
anl3 other purposes.
Gi ven in the city of Los Angeles, on this common paper, for want of
sealed, the 15th of June, 1846.
Pio Pico.
JOsE MATIAS MoRENO, See'y ad int.
This superior decree is recorded in the proper bt oh, dated as abovo.
21ORENO

414

UNITED STATES V. YORBA.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the United States.

Mr. Wills, for the appellants: The United States object to
the decree of confirmation in this case for several reasons:
1. The grant is proved only by secondary evidence of the
handwriting of the governor and his secretary, without any
foundation having been laid for dispensing with the primary
evidence.
2. It is void, as against the United States, because made
after May 13, 1846. No genuine or valid grants of lands in
California were made by Mexican authority after May 13,
1846. This fact may be proved, first, by the admission of
the Mexican government during the negotiation of the treaty
of Guadalupe Hidalgo.
The evidence on the subject is found in the diplomatic
correspondence of our government in relation to the treaty.
Mr. Buchanan, Secretary of State, in his letter of April
15, 1847, to Mr. Trist, our diplomatic agent, while transmitting him a draft of the proposed treaty of peace with Mexico,
instructs him as follows:
"The rights of the persons and property of the inhabitants of
the territory over which the boundaries of the United States
shall be extended will be amply protected by the Constitution
and laws of the United States. An article, therefore, to secure
those rights has not been inserted in the project; but should this
be deemed necessary by the Mexican government, no strong
objection exists against inserting in the treaty an article similar
to the third article of the Louisiana treaty. It might read as
follows: ' The inhabitants of the territory over which the jurisdiction of the United States has been extended by the fourth
article of this treaty shall be incorporated into the Union of the
United States, and admitted as soon as possible, according to tho
principles of the Federal Constitution, to the enjoyment of all
the rights, advantages, and immunities of citizens of the United
States; and in the meantime they shall be maintained and protected in the free enjoyment of their liberty, property, and the
religion which they profess.' In the event of the insertion of
this article, it would be proper to add to it the following: 'Provided, That all grants or concessions whatever of any lands made
or issued by the Mexican government since the thirteenth day

Dec. *1863.]

UNITED STATES V. YORBA.

Argument for the Unite'I States.

of May, one thousand eight hundred and forty-six, within the
said territory, shall be absolutely null and void! The date
might, if necessary, be changed from the day when Congress
recognized the existence of the war to the month of September,
1846, when the American forces took possession of California."*
Ir. Trist, in his letter of January 25, 1848, to the Secretary of State, transmitting the treaty of peace negotiated by
him, on the point in question, says:
"With respect to grants of land made by the Mexican authorities, the proviso contained in my instructions was strenuously
objected to upon a point of national honor and decorum. No
such grants had been made since the 13th May, 1846. This
they knew, and consequently the proviso could have no practical effect. But it implied that they bad been made, or might
have been made, and that, nevertheless, the government committed the injustice of revoking them; which, in fact, it had
authority to do. Moreover, it involved an acknowledgment that,
from the day when hostilities broke out on the north of the Rio
Bravo, the Mexican government had lost the right to make
grants of land in any part of its territory subsequently occupied
by us. Feeling the force of these objections, I requested to make
sure of the fact stated by them; and also in regard to no grants
having been made in Texas since the revolution, which bad been
incidentally mentioned by one of them (the Mexican negotiators). And this having been done, in a manner which left no
shade of doubt on their minds, the declaration which will be
found at the end of ART. 10 was agreed upon, in lieu of the
proviso."t
That declaration is in these words:
"The Mexican government declares that no grant whatever
of lands in Texas has been made since the second day of March,
one thousand eight hundred and thirty-six; and that no grant
whatever of land, in any of the territories afbresaid, has been
made since the thirteenth day of -May,one thousand eight hun.
fred and forty-six."+
* Senate Doe., I Sess. 30 Cong., vol. 7, for 1847-48, No. 52, p. 83.

1"Ib.,

p. 292.

:1Ib., p. 50.

UNITED STATES V. YORBA.

[Sup. CtL

Argument for the United States.

This declaration of the fact in question is the more valuablP from the circumstance that while Mexico was unwilling
to stipulate that all grants of land in California made after
May 13, 1846, should be null and void, it was nevertheless
willing to declare, and did declare the fact, that no such
grants had been made. It is also entitled to credit because
made by the party most interested in knowing, after examination, with the best sources of information within its reach,
and with opportunity, during a period of nearly two years,
to ascertain the truth of the fact.
But it may be objected that the tenth article of the treary,
which contained this declaration, was rejected by the Senate
of the United States, and that, therefore, it is inoperative in
a question of this kind. This objection misconceives the
argument If the invalidity of all grants of land in California made after May 13th, 1846, was urged on the ground
of a treaty stipulation to that effect, the objection now made
would be unanswerable. But it is not placed on that ground.
Mexico was not willing to place it on that ground; neither
are we. We place it on the ground of the fact, attested by
Mexico herself. The rejection of the article of the treaty
containing this statement of fact is, therefore, immaterial
The fact still remains unchanged in all its original force, and
with all its original consequences. Doubt on this point is
dispelled when we learn the reason why the tenth article of
the treaty was rejected. To the first clause of the first paragraph of the tenth article there was no objectiou. It simply
declared the doctrine of international law in cases of the
cession of territory, and was afterwards embodied in the
treaty in another form. To the last paragraph containing
the declaration quoted there could be, and there was, no
objection on the part of the United States, because it was for
their benefit, and was inserted, as we have seen, at the
instance of our Secretary of State. The objection to the
article, as a whole, was to anotlier part of it, which stipulated for an extension of time in favor of the grantees of land
in Texas, California, and New Mexico, under grants previously made, for the performance of the conditions contained

Dec. 1863.1

UNITED STATES V. YORBA.
Argument for the United States.

therein, to take effect from the exchange of the ratifications
uf the treaty.
This we know from a variety of sources.
I. From the message of the President of the United States,
submitting the treaty to the Senate, in which he recommends
the rejection of the tenth article of the treaty for the reason
already stated. "To the tenth article of the treaty," says he,
"there are serious objections, and no instructions given to
Mr. Trist contemplated or authorized its insertion. The
public lands within the limits of Texas belong to that State,
and this government has no power to dispose of them, or
to change the conditions of grants already made. All
valid titles to land within the other territories ceded to the
United States will remain unaffected by the change of sovereignty; and I therefore submit that this article should not
be ratified as a part of the treaty."*
ii. We know it from the letter of the Secretary of State
of March 18, 1848, to the Mexican Minister of Foreign Rela.
tions, explaining the causes of the amendments to the treatx
made by the Senate, and, among others, the rejection of tht.
tenth article. Thus it reads:
"The third amendment of the Senate strikes from the treaty
the tenth article. It is truly unaccountable how this article
should have found a place in the treaty. That portion of it in
regard to lands in Texas did not receive a single vote in the
Senate. If it were adopted it would be a mere nullity on the
face of the treaty, and the judges of our courts would be compelled to disregard it. It is our glory that no human power
exists in this country which can deprive one individual of his
property without his consent, and transfer it to another. If
grantees of land in Texas, under the Mexican government, possess valid titles, they can maintain their claims before our courts
ofjustice. If they have.forfeited their grants by not complying
with the conditions on which they were made, it is beyond the
power of this government, in any mode of action, to render
those titles valid, either against Texas, or any individual pro*Message

VOL. 1.

of Feb. 22d, 1848. 1b., p. 34.
27

418

UNITED STATES V. YORBA.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the United States.

prietor. To resuscitate such grants, and to allow the grantees
the same period after the exchange of the ratifications of this
treaty to which they were originally entitled, for the purpose of
performing the conditions on which these grants had been made,
even if this could be accomplished by the power of the govornment of the United States, would work manifold injustice. These
Mexican grants, it is understood, cover nearly the whole of the
sea-coast and a large portion of the interior of Texas. They
embrace thriving villages, and a great number of cultivated
farms, the proprietors of which have acquired them honestly by
purchase from the State of Texas. These proprietors are now
dwelling in peace and security. To revive dead titles, and suffer
the inhabitants of Texas to be ejected under them from their
possessions, would be an act of flagrant injustice, if not wanton
.ruelty. Fortunately, this government possesses no power to
adopt such a proceeding. The same observations equally apply
to such grantees in New Mexico and Upper California. The
present treaty provides amply and specifically in its eighth and
ninth articles for the security of property of every kind belonging to Mexicans, whether held under Mexican grants or otherwise, in the acquired territory. The property of foreigners,
under our Constitution and laws, will be equally secure without
any treaty stipulation. The tenth article could have no effect
on such grantees as have forfeited their claims but that of involving them in endless litigation, under the vain hope that a
treaty might cure the defects in their titles against honest purchasers and owners of the soil. And here it may be worthy of
observation, that if no stipulations whatever were contained in
the treaty to secure to the Mexican inhabitants, and all others,
protection in the free enjoyment of their liberty, property, and
the religion which they profess, these would be amply guaranteed
by the Constitution and laws of the United States. These invaluable blessings, under our forms of government, do not result
from treaty stipulations, but from the very nature and character
of our institutions."*
* Senate Doec., 30 Con-., vol. 7, for 1847-48, No. 60, pp. 69, 70. To the
same effect, see also the President's message of February 8, 1849, to the
House of Representatives, communicating the protocol signed at the exchange of the ratifications of the treaty, with the accompanying documents.
(Er. Doc.. 2d sess. 30th Cong., 1848-49, vol. 5. No. 50, pp. 7, 8.) Mr. Bu

Dec. 1863.]

UNITED STATES V. YORBA.
Argument for the United States.

The declaration of fact contained in the last paragraph
of that article remains, therefore, unaffected by its rejection
as a part of that article.
The general fact for which we contend is further proved
by the second admission of the fact by the Mexican govern-

ment, in the protocol signed by its ministers before the
exchange of the ratifications of the treaty of Guadalupe
Hidalgo. After reciting the appointment of commissioners
of the United States, with full powers to make to the Mexican republic suitable explanations in regard to the amendment of that treaty made by the Senate and government of
the United States, that document declares that
"It was agreed, after adequate conversation respecting the
changes alluded to, to record in the present protocol the following explanations, which their aforesaid excellencies, the commissioners, gave in the name of their government, and in fulfilment
of the commission conferred upon them near the :Mexican republic."
"2d. The American government, by suppressing the tenth
article of the treaty of Guadalupe, did not in any way intend to
annul the grants of land made by Mexico in the ceded territories.
These grants, notwithstanding the suppression of the article of
the treaty, preserve the legal value which they may possess; and
the grantees may cause their legitimate titles to be acknowledged
before the American tribunals. Conformably to the law of the
United States, legitimate titles to every description of property,
personal and real, existing in the ceded territories, are those which
were legitimate titles under the Mexican law in California and New
Mexico, up to the 13th of May, 1846, and in Texas up to the 2d
of March, 1836. And these explanations having been accepted
by the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Mexican republic, he
declared,in the name of his government, that, with the understanding
conveyed by them, the said government would proceed to ratify the
treaty of Gutadalupeas modified by the Senate and government of the
Utited States."*
ehanan's letter to Mr. Sevier, of March 18, 1848. (Ib., pp. 47, 48.) Debate in
the Senate on the protocol, February 10, 1849. Remarks of Senators Rusk,
Bradbury, and others. (Cong. Globe and Appendix, vol. 20, 2d sess. 30th
Cong., pp. 500-502.)
* .x. Doe., 2d sess. 30th Cong., 1848-49, vol. 5, No. 50, pp. 77, 78.

UNITED STATES V. YORBA.

[Sup. Ct

Argument for the United States.

It will be observed that the solicitude of the Mexican government, so far as concerns land grants in California, relates to those made prior to May 13th, 1846. Having previously declared to our government that no grants of lands
in California had been made after that date, in exacting an
explanation from our government as a preliminary condition
to the exchange of the ratifications of the treaty, it only required our commissioners to recognize and declare as "legitimate" "those titles which were legitimate under the Mexican law in California up to the 13th of May, 1846." No
pledge was exacted in regard to grants made after that date,
and for the obvious reason that Mexico had previously declared that none had been made. The explanation and definition of "legitimate titles" in California thus required by
Mexico from the United States on the basis of its own previous statement is, therefore, equivalent to a redeclaration
of that fact by Mexico. That declaration, therefore, is the
measure of the obligations of the United States under the
treaty in regard to land grants in California. We are not
bound to recognize as genuine or valid any grants made or
purporting to be made after May 13, 1846. This result follows, not directly, from any treaty stipulation to that effect,
but indirectly, from the declaration of a fact by Mexico,
which fact thus becomes the measure of our obligations
under tho treaty. No injustice, no want of good faith, can
be imputed to us for executing the treaty on the basis of
the general fact affirmed and reaffirmed by Mexico to the
government of the United States, viz.: that no genuine or
valid grants of land in California were made after May 13,
1846.
This fact is also confirmed by the journal of the De.
p artmental Assembly for the year 1846, found among the
archives of California. An examination of that document
shows that it extends from March 2, 1846, to July 24, 1846;
and that in the sessions held from May 13, 1846, to July 24,
1846, no grant was presented by the g vernor, for approval
by the Assembly, dated laterthan May 2, .1846, although
,cssions were held successively May 15, June 3, June 10,

Dec. 1863.]

UNITED STATES V. YORBA.
Opinion of the court.

June 15, July 1, July 8, July 6, July 7, July 8, and July 24,
1846.*
This result, it will be seen, is in harmony with the declaration made by Mexico to the United States on the subject
of land grants in California, after examination.
8. But admitting the competency of the governor to
make the grant after May 13, 1846, the grant is illegal, because it does not contain the usual conditions, requiring
building within a year, cultivation, and inhabitancy. By the regulations of 1828, "the governors of the territories are authorized (in compliance with the law of the General Congress of the 18th of August, 1824, and under the conditions
hereafter specified) to grant vacant lands in their respective territories to such contractors, families, or private persons, whether Mexicans or foreigners, who may ask for
them for the purpose of cultivating and inhabiting them."t The
governor, therefore, had no authority to grant lands, except
upon conditions for the purposes of cultivation and inhabitancy,
which he did not do.
Mr. Justice FIELD delivered the opinion of the court:
Three objections are urged by the appellants to the decree
of confirmation.
1st. That the grant to the claimant was proved by secondary evidence.
2d. That the grant was issued by the Mexican governor
of California, after the 18th of May, 1846; and
3d. That the grant does not contain conditions requiring
cultivation and inhabitancy and the construction of a house
within a year.
1. The first objection rests upon the fact that the governor
who signed and the secretary who attested the grant were
not called to prove its execution, and that the instrument
was admitted upon proof of their signatures. This proof
* See "Record of Sessions of the Departmental Assembly" for 1846, ap.
pendix to appellant's brief in United States v. Bo 'on, pp. 22f to 253.
t Halleck's Report, appendix No. 5, J 1.

UNITED STATES V. YORBA.

[Sup. Ct,

Opinion of the court.

of their signatures by a third party is characterized by coun.
sel as secondary evidence of the execution. Whether with
strict accuracy it can be thus characterized is immaterial.
Their testimony, or at least testimony establishing something
more than the genuineness of their signatures, might have
been required, if the usual preliminary proceedings to the
issue of a Mexican grant in colonization had not been produced in the case from the archives of the former government in the custody of the Surveyor-General of California.
In the absence of the preliminary proceedings, suspicion naturally arises as to the genuineness of any grant produced,
and in such cases the strict proof mentioned in United States
v. Teschmaker,* and in Fuentes v. United States,t may be demanded. But where the preliminary proceedings are preserved in the archives, and no doubts in consequence are
created as to the genuineness and due execution of the grant,
the proof of the signatures of the grantor and attesting secretary will, on appeal, be deemed sufficient by this court,
unless objection is taken to its sufficiency in the first instance
before one of the inferior tribunals. Such is the purport of
the recent decision in the case of The United States v. Auguisola.1
2. The invalidity of grants issued by the Mexican governors of California, after the 13th of May, 1846, is asserted
upon the declaration of Mexico, through her commissioners,
who negotiated the treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo, that no
such grants were issued subsequent to that date. It is true
that such declaration was made and embodied in the Projet
of the treaty originally submitted to our government. But
as the clause containing it was stricken out by the Senate,
it cannot be affirmed that the treaty was assented to by the
United States on the faith of the declaration. Even if the
case were different, and the treaty had been concluded in
i eliance upon the truth of the declaration, that fact could
not affect the rights of parties, who, subsequent to the 13th
of May, 1846, obtained grants from the governors of Cali*22 Htoward. 392.

t- Id., 443.

tAnte, p. 352

Dec. 1863.]

UNITED STATES V. YORBA.
Opinion of the court.

fornia, whilst their authority and jurisdiction in the country
continued. The rights asserted by the inhabitants of the
territory to their property depend upon the concessions made
by the officers of the former government having at the time
the requisite authority to alienate the public domain, and
not upon any subsequent declaration of Mexican commissioners on the subject.
The authority and jurisdiction of Mexican officials are regarded as terminating on the 7th of July, 1846; on that day
the forces of the United States took possession of Monterey,
an important town in California, and within a few weeks
afterwards occupied the principal portions of the country,
and the military occupation continued until- the treaty of
peace. The political department of the g6vernment at least
appears to have designated that day as the period when the
conquest of California was completed, and the Mexican officials were displaced; and in this respect the judiciary follows
the action of the political department.*
8. The absence from the grant of conditions requiring
cultivation and inhabitancy, and the construction of a house
within a year, does not affect the validity of the grant The
omission to insert them probably arose from the fact that
the grantee, together with his deceased brother, bad been
for years previous in the occupation and use of the premises.
The object of the general colonization law of 1824, and the
regulations of 1828, which were adopted to carry that law
into effect, was the settlement of the vacant lands of the Republic, and to secure that object concessions like the one in
this case were generally made subject to the conditions of
cultivation and inhabitancy, although the conditions were
not always inserted in the title-papers. It would be unnecessary to insert them when such cultivation and inhabitancy
by the grantee already, existed. In the grant to Sutter, the
validity of which was affirmed by this court,t there was a
imilar omission, and no doubt for like reasons.
DECREE AFFirmED.
* See United States v. Pico, 23 Howard, 326.

t- 21 Id]., 170.

