OPINIONS OF INDIVIDUAL JUSTICES
IN CHAMBERS

AUTRY v. ESTELLE, DIRECTOR, TEXAS
DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY
No. A-242. Decided October 5, 1983
An application to stay applicant's execution under a sentence imposed by
the courts of Texas is granted pending the final disposition by the United
States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit of applicant's appeal from
the District Court's denial of a writ of habeas corpus, or until a further
order by this Court or by the Circuit Justice. One of the grounds on
which applicant sought relief, not raised in his earlier habeas corpus petition, was the Texas Court of Criminal Appeals' failure to determine
whether his death sentence is disproportionate to the punishment imposed on others. The issue of whether the Federal Court of Appeals
properly concluded that the Texas death-penalty system, as a whole, satisfies any constitutional requirement with respect to proportionality cannot be said to lack substance, since this Court has granted certiorari in
another case to review a holding of the Court of Appeals for the Ninth
Circuit that a California death sentence cannot be carried out until the
State Supreme Court conducts a comparative proportionality review.

Circuit Justice.
Applicant is under a sentence of death imposed by the
courts of Texas. His execution is scheduled to be carried out
after midnight of October 4, c. d. t. He has once unsuccessfully sought a writ of habeas corpus from the United States
District Court; denial of the writ was affirmed by the Court
of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, 706 F. 2d 1394 (1983), and on
October 3, 1983, we denied a stay pending the filing of a petition for certiorari. Ante, p. 1. Applicant then filed a second petition for habeas corpus, raising grounds not presented
in his first petition and hence not before us when we so recently denied a stay of execution. After a hearing, the DisJUSTICE WHITE,

1301

1302

OCTOBER TERM, 1983
Opinion in Chambers

464 U. S.

trict Court denied both the writ and a certificate of probable
cause, which, under 28 U. S. C. ยง 2253, is a prerequisite to an
appeal. The Court of Appeals then held a hearing, denied
the certificate of probable cause, and denied the stay. Applicant has now applied to me for a stay.
One of the three grounds on which applicant sought relief
in his second habeas corpus petition is the failure of the Texas
Court of Criminal Appeals to compare his case with other
cases in order to determine whether his death sentence is disproportionate to the punishment imposed on others. That
ground as I have said was not presented in his first petition.
Although it appears that no such review was in fact carried
out in this case, the Court of Appeals held that the Texas
death-penalty system, as a whole, satisfies any constitutional
requirement with respect to proportionality.
I am compelled to issue a certificate of probable cause to
appeal, as I am authorized to do under ยง 2253, and to enter
a stay pending the final disposition of the appeal by the
Court of Appeals. On March 21, we granted certiorari in
No. 82-1095, Pulley v. Harris. 460 U. S. 1036. In that
case, the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit held that a
death sentence cannot be carried out by the State of California until and unless the State Supreme Court conducts a comparative proportionality review, which, the court held, was
constitutionally required. 692 F. 2d 1189 (1982). We shall
hear argument in that case in November, and if we affirm the
Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, there will be a substantial question whether the views of the Court of Appeals
for the Fifth Circuit with respect to the proportionality issue
were correct. Of course I do not know how the Court will
rule on this question, but in view of the judgment of the
Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit and in view of our
decision to give the case plenary consideration, I cannot say
that the issue lacks substance. Accordingly, I hereby issue
a certificate of probable cause and stay petitioner's execution
pending the final disposition of the appeal by the Court of
Appeals, or until the Court's or my further order.

AUTRY v. ESTELLE
1301

1303

Opinion in Chambers

In my view, it would be desirable to require by statute that
all federal grounds for challenging a conviction or a sentence
be presented in the first petition for habeas corpus. Except
in unusual circumstances, successive writs would be summarily denied. But historically, res judicata has been inapplicable to habeas corpus proceedings, Sanders v. United
States, 373 U. S. 1, 7-8 (1963), and 28 U. S. C. ยง2244(a) and
28 U. S. C. ยง 2254 Rule 9 implicitly recognize the legitimacy
of successive petitions raising grounds that have not previously been presented and adjudicated.

