JANUARY TERM 1831.

JOHN W. SIMONTOY, PLAINTIPF IN ERROR- vs. SAMUEL WINTER AND SAMUEL G. BOWMAN, suiVrIvorts Or JOSHUA
.BoWMAN, DEVVNDANTS IN ERROR.
Action ofcovenauton acharter party, by which theowners of the brig James Monroe letand hired heto the plaintiffin error for a certain time; the money payable
for the hire of the vessel, to be paid at certain periods, and under circumstances stated in ihe charter party. After some tizne, and after theyessel had
earned a sum of money, while in the employment of the charterer, slip was
lost by the peril! ofthe sea. The declaration set out the covenants and averred performance on the part of the plaintiffs, and that the sum of two thousand seven hundred and thirty-four dollars seventeen cents was due and unpaid
upon' the carter party. The defendant pleaded that he had paid to the plaintiffs al ant every such sums of money as were become due and ppy~ble from
him, according to the true intent and meaning of the articles of agreement.
On the lial of the issue upon this plea, the court, at the request of the plain.
tiffs, Initructed the jury that the plea did not impose any obligation on the
plaintie'to prove any averment in the declaration; but that the whole onus
probaxdl, under the plea, -was upon the defendant, to prove the paymentstated
in the same, as the plea admitted the demand as stated In the declaration.
HeM, that there ias no issue properly-joined. The breach assigned in the
declaxtion is special, the non.payment of a certain sum of money for particular
and specified services alleged to have beef rendered. The plea alleges generary, that the defendant had paid all that was ever due and payable, according
tethe tenor of the agreement, and not all of the specified sum. Thisdoes not
toeet the allegations in the declaration, or amount to an admission that -the
vessel had eame the sum dentanded: and there was error in the court in.
instructing the jury that the plaintiffs were not bound to prove the allegations
in the declaration.
rhe general rule of pleading is, that when an issu is properly joined, he who
asserts the affirmative must prove it; and if the defendant by his plea confessei
and avoids the count, he admits the facts stated in the count.
An issue is a single, certain, and material point, arising out of the allegations or
pleadiugs of the parties; and generAlly should be made up by an affirmative
and negative.
If matter is not weir pleaded, and is no answer to the breach assigned in the declaration, it cannot be considered an admission of the cause ofaction statefd in
the declaration.
It is laid down In the books, that although the object of the action of covertant
is the recovery of a money demand, the distinctiod between the terms daptres
and money in numero must be attended to.

ERROR to the circuit court .of the county of-Washington,
in the district of Columbia.
In the circuit court, the defendants in error, the plaintiffs
below$ instituted -n action of covenant on a charter party,

SUPREME COURT.
[Simonton vs. Winter and Bowman.]
at Bath, Maine, by which they, the
1820,
.15,
July
dated
plaintiffs, Jet and hiredl to the defendant the brig James Monroe, to piroceed from Bath to Havana, thence to Mobile and
elsewhere, as Simonton should direct, the dangers of the seas
excepted, for the term of twelve months, from the 7th of July.
The plaintiffs covenanted to keep the brig in good order and
well victualled during the said term, the dangers of the seas
excepted. The defendant, on his 'part,' covenanted, inter
alia, to pay to -the plaintiff for the hire of the brig, four hundred and twenty-five dollars each and every month dtiring the
said term, in manner following, to wit: six hunrred dollars on
the arrival of the brig at Havana; and then six hundred dollars
from time to time, as often as the charter bf the brig should
amount to that sum; that is to say, -when the brig should have
earned six hundred dollars at the rate of thec harterp arty, it
was to be paid in Spanish dollars in the United States, or irr
good and approved bills, &c.
The declaration, after setting out the covenants, and averring
performance on the part of the 'plaintiffs, &e. irl the usual form,
avers that the brig was taken into se'vice by defendant.on the
said 7th July 1820, sailed on the 16th from Bath to lhvana,
where she arrived, and qontinued under the control and it the
employment of defendant, under said charter party, tillthe
20th.of January then next ensuing, when, in the prosecutitn
of a voyage under the direction. of defendant, she was totally
lost by the perils of the sea: that the brig, at the time of her
loss, had earned the sum of two thousand three hundred and
thirty-four dollars seventeen cents, for her hire and affireightment from the 7th of July 1820, to the 20th of January 1821,
at the monthly rate stipulated by the charter party. The refusal of the defendant to pay this sum, or any part, in any of
the modes of payment stipulated in the charter party, is the
breach of covenant complained of.
The defendant pleaded four several pleas-upon the first of
which issue was joined, and there was on this plea a trial and
verdict, and judgment for the plaintiffs on the same. The
plaintiffs demurred to the remaining pleas, and judgment was
given for them. - The first plea, after craving oyer of
the. charter party, which was granted, set forth that the plaintiffs ought not to have or naintain their action aforesaid against.

JANUARY TERM 1831.
(Slmonton vs. Winter and Bowman.]

him, because he says that the said defendant hath paid to the
said plaintiffs all and -very such. sums of money as were become due and payable from the said defendant, according to
the tenor and effect, true intent' and meaning of the said
articles of agreement; and of this he puts himself on the country,. &c.
The question presented to the court, on the record of the
proceedings of the court below on the trial of this issue, is
contained in a bill of exceptions taken by the counsel for the
deendant.
The bill of exceptions, after stating certain matters of fact,
which were admitted to prove, and did prove, the payment of
two hundred -and ten -dollars, by John "W. Simonton, to the
agent of the plaintiffs, and for their use, proceeds 'to say:
"and the plaintiffs, without giving evidence to the jury,
prayed the court to instruct the jury as follows:"
."The plaintiffs insist before the jury, Under the issue of fact
joined in this cause, that the ple4 is-no traverse of any averment in the declaration, -necessary to -establish the priimary
obligation to pay what is therein demanded, nor imposes on
..
the plaintiffs any necessity in supporting the issue on their
part above joined, to prove any averment in their declaration:
but that the whole onus probanl i under the affirmative plea
of payment, is on the defendant to prove such payment. as he
has WIleged. And the plaintiffs pray the court to instruct the
juey accordingly." Which instruction the court gave, being
of opinion, and so expressing'it to the juiy, that upon the issue
joined in this case, and which the jury had been sworn to try,
the defendant had assumed upon-himself the burden of p oving
that he had paid the hire of said vessel for the time stated in
the declaration, at the rate of four hundred- and twenty-five
dollars per month: to which instruction, the defendant, by
his counsel, excepted," &c.
The second plea of the defendant alleged that the plaintiffs
Aid not on their part keep and perform their covenants in the
charter party: that the brig dicf not pursue the voyage and
voyages ordered and appointed for her by the defendant, and
did not carry on the legal trade on which the defendafit employed her; but without sufficient cause deviated therefrom on
the 27th November 1820, while. under the control of the de-

SUPREME COURT.
-(Simonton vs. Winter and Bowman.]

fendant under the charter party; omitted to proceed from Port
au Prince to Crooked Island as ordered, and in violation of
the agreement proceeded to the Havana against the- orders of
the defendant, by which great expense was sustained, and the
voyage in which the brig was engaged was greatly delayed
and defeated; and afterwards during the charter party, the
brig, against the will of the defendant, sailed from Crooked
island to Rag Island, instead of to Mobile, where she was destined according to orders, whereby the voyage to Mobile was
defeated; and that on the 20th of January 1821, the brig was
wholly lost -by shipwreck, and a cargo on board, of the value
of ten thousand dollars, was wholly lost and destroyed.
Wherefore, &c.
The third plea alleges, that while the brig was lawfully subject to the orders of the defendant, she was dispatched in a
lawful trade from Port au .Prince to Crooked Island, and und.er
such orders sailed on the 27th day-of November 1820, on
that voyage; and according to the tenor and effect of the agreement, it was the duty of the captain and crew of the brig,
acting on bdhalf of the plaintiffs, to. have carried the brig
to. Crooked Island: yet the captain and crew, in violation
of the orders of the defendant, carried the vessel to the Havana, to the great injury of the defendant, whereby the covenants in the charter party were wholly broken by the plaintiffs.
Wherefore, &c.
The fourth plea stated, that. oh the 30th of December 1830,
the brig James Monroe was at Crooked Island for the, purpose
of taking on board a cargo of salt for the defendant, to carry
the sdme from thence direct to Mobile; and the defendant,
relying on the faithful performance of their duty by the captain and crew, caused insurance to be effected on the cargo of
salt from .Crooked Island to Mobile; yet the captain and crew,
well knowing the same, did deviate from the voyage to Mobile withput lawful authority or excuse, and proceeded from
Crooled Island to Rag -Island: in consequence of which,.
and -after the said deviation, the brig and cargo were wholly
lost byshipwreck on the-20th of January 1821, and the policy
of insurance became wholly void and of no effect; and the
-defendant thereby sustained damages to the amount of ten
thousand dollars, whereby he became discharged from all fur-

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[Simonton vs. Winter and Bowman.]

ther payments under we charter party, and from the performance of any of the agreements contained in the charter party.
Wherefore, &c..
The defendant-in the circuit court prosecuted this writ of
error.
The case was argued by Mfr Coxe for the plaintiff in error,
and by Mr Jones for the defendants.
Mr Coxe, for the plaintiff in error, contended, as to the instructions given upon the trial of the issue under the first plea,
that by the terms of the charter party, no part of the monthly
freight was due until the end of the month. Covenants were
to be performed on both sides. The plaintiff averred performance, and the defendant pleaded payment of all moneys due
and payable.
If this had been an action upon a bond, with a condition; the
plaintiffs would have been obliged to assign specific breaches,
and to prove them.
The plea does not say that the defendant had paid the whole
amount claimed by the plaintiffs, but that payment had been
made so far as freight hal been earned; and if the plaintiffs
claimed and were entitled to more than the sum of two hundred and ten dollars, which was paid, they should have proved
that more was earned and due under the charter party. By
going to trial on this plea, the defendant need not go beyond it.
If the plea was not issuable, and if the plaintiffs had taken
judgment upon it, they would have been obliged to prove
their damages before a jury of inquiry. As issue was joined
upon the plea, the plaintiffs should have proved that 'the
vessel performed the charter party, and earned the freight;
and also that the amount of six hundred dollars was payable
when the vessel arrived at Havana, and the same amount when
it was afterwards earned. If any freight was due under the
charter party, it must have been because the vessel had delivered the goods of the charterer, and had under his direction
performed the voyage or voyages designated or ordered by
him. It was therefore essential, that evidence to establish
these facts should have been exhibited on the trial of this
issue.
The substance of the second, third and fourth pleas, to which
VoT..'V.

T

SUPREME COURT.
[Simonton vs. Winter and Bowman.]

the plaintiff demurred is, that the owners retained the management of the brig, and the charterer was to direct the voyages
to be performed by her. They engage to carry the vessel to
every port required by the charterer. The pleas aver, that the
ma~ter of the brig deviated from the orders of the charterer,
and thereby caused her loss and that of the cargo. By demurring, the plaintiffs admit these facts. Cited, Pothier on
Charter Parties, 16, &c.
Mr Jones, for the defendants in error.
The charter party, was itself sufficient to show the amount
due to the owners of this vessel. The sum payable was four
hundred and twenty-five dollars per month, and at the same
rate for a fraction'of a month. Tle time the vessel was in
the employ of the charter being shown, or admitted by the
pleadings, no evidence could be necessary to maintain the
issue under the first plea.
As to the remaining pleas, he argued that the covenants of
the owners of the brig did not create conditions precedent;
so that the breach of one on the part of the owners, created
an excuse for the nonperformance of the obligations of the
charterer.
If the conduct of the master of the brig had been such as to
eititle the charterer to claim damages for his misconduct, they
should be recovered in a distinct suit, and could not be set off
in this suit. Cited, 4 Maule and Selw. 208. 5 Petersdorf, 301.
7 Petersdorf, 96 to 106, 404 to 407. 5 Petexsdorf, 311, 314,
326, 328, 332.
Mr Justice THozosoN delivered the opinion of the Court.
This case comes before the court upon a writ of error to
the circuit court of the district of Columbia., The action is
covenant, on a charter party dated the 15th of July 1820,'by
which the plaintiffs in the court below let and hired t9 the defendant the brig James Monroe, to proceed from Bath, in the
state of Maine, to Havana, thence" to Mobile, pr elsewhere
as the defendant might direct, for the term of twelve months
from the 7th day of the said month of July; at and after the
rate of four hundredand twenty-five dollars per month. And
the plaintiffs covenanted on their part that the brig should be

JANUARY'TERM 18-1.
[Sinonson vs. Winter aad Bowman.]

tight,"stiff, staunch and strong, well victualled and manned at
their expense, during that period (the dangers of the seas excepted). And the defendant, on his part, covenanted among
other things to pay to the plaintiffs for the hire of the brig,
four hundred, and twenty five dollars each and jevery month
during the.said term, in minner following: to wit, six hundred
dollrs on the arrival of the brig at'Havana; and then six hun-.
dred dollars from time to time, as often as the charter of the
brig should amount to that sum; that is to say, when the said
brig earns six hundred dollars, at the rate of the charter party;
to be paid in Spanish dollars in the United States, or in good
ind approved bills.
. The declaration, after Fetting out the covenants covering
performance on the part of the plaintiffs, &c. in the usual
form, avers, that the brig was taken into service by the defendant on the said 7th of July 1820, and sailed on the 16th
of the same month from Bath to Havana, where she arrived
and continued under' the control at~d in ihe employment of
the defendant, under said charter party, till the 20th -of January then next; when ih the prosecution of a voyage, under the
direction of the defendant, she was tota'lly lost by the perils
of the sea. That the brig at the time of her loss had earned
the sum of two thousand seven hundred and thirty-fqur dollars, and seventeen cents, for her hire and dffreightment from
the 7th of July 1820 to the 20th of January 1821; which
sum or any part thereof, the defendant had refused to pay.in'
any of the modes stipulated'in the charter party.
The defendant pleaded four several pleas. The first of
which, and the 'only one upoh which issue is taken, is. as follows: "and the said John W. Simonton, by his attorneys,
comes and defends the wrong and injury when, &c. and craves
oyer of-the slid articles of agreement of charter party in the
said declaration mentioned, and they are read to him in these
words; &c. which being read and heard, the defendant says,
as to the said breach of covenant in the said declaration
assigned, that the said plaintiffs ought not to have or maintain
their action aforesaid against him, because he says that the said
defendant hath paid to the said plaintiffs all and every such sums
of money as were become due and payable from the said defendant, according to the tenor and effect, true intent and

SUPREME COURT.
[Simonton vs. Winter and Bowman.]

meaning) of the said articles of agreement, and of this he puts
himself upon the country, &c."
The plaintiffs demurred to the three 6ther pleas; upon which
the court gave judgment for them.
The question now to be decided arises upon i bill of exceptions-taken at -the trial.
It was admitted on the part of the plaintiffs that the defenftant had paid two hundred and ten dollars on account of the
charter party; and thereupon, without giving any evidence, the
plaintiffs prayed the court to instruct the jury as follows:
The plaintiffs insist before the jury, under the issue of fact
joined in this cause, that the plea is no traverse of any averment in the declaration, necessary to establish the primary
obligation to pay what is therein demanded, nor imposes on
the plaintiffs any necessity -in supporting the issue on- their
part above joined, to prove any averment in their declaration;
but that the whole onus probandi, under the affirmative plea
of payment, is on the defendant to prove such payment as he
has alleged; and the plaintiffs pray the court to instruct the
jury accordingly: which instruction the court: gave, being
of opinion, and so expressing it to the jury, that upon the
issue joined in this case, the defendant had assumed upon himself the burden of proving that he had paid the hire of said
vessel for the time stated in the declaration, at the rate of four
hundred and twenty-five dollars per month. To wltich instruction the defendant excepted.
The only question arising upon this bill bf exceptions is,
whether the defendant by his plea has admitted the cause' of
action as alleged in the declaration, so as to dispense with any
proof on the part of the plaintiffs to establish such cause of
action. The instruction given by the court to the jury was,
that the defendant had, by his plea of payment, admitted the
demand of the plaintiffs5 as stated in the declaration. The
general rule undoubtedly is, that when an issue is properly
joined, be who asserts the affirmative must prove it; and if
the defendant by his plea confesses and avoids the count, he
admits the facts stated in the count. But these rules do not
apply to this case. The answer of the defendant is not to the
allegation in the declaration. There is no issue properly
joined. The plea must not onIy be adapted to the nature and

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[Simonton os. Winteraid Bowman.]

form of the action, but must also be conformable to the count.
An issue is a single, certain and material point, arising out of
the allegations or pleadings of the parties, and generally should
be made up by an affirmative and negative; the breach
assigned in this declaration, is special; the non-payment of
a certain sum of money, for particular and specifiedservices,
alleged to have been rendered. If the plea had been payment
of the sums of money demanded in the declaration, it would
confess and avoid the count, and the affirmative would rest
upon the defendant to prove payment. But the plea, instead
of alleging payment of the sum demanded in the declaration,
alleges generally that the defendant had paid all such sums of
money as were become due and payable from the defendant,
according to the tenor and effect, true intent and meaning, of
the said articles of agreement. This does not meet the allegation or breach in the declaration, or amount to an admission
that the brig had earned the sum demanded, so as to dispense
'with the necessity of the plaintiff's proving it. The plea is
certainly bad. It amounts to a general plea of performance,
when the declaration contains an assignment of a particular
breach: ' This cannot be done. The defendant was bound to
meet the allegation of the particular breach. Issue cannot be
taken on-a -general plea of performance; and the plaintiff, if
driven to reply, would be obliged to repeat his declaration.
When a particular breach is assigned, the defendant has an
affirmative offered upon which he may take issue. 2 Johns.
413. Archbold's -Plead. 233, and cases there cited.
If this matter is not well pleaded, and is no answer to the
breach assigned in the declaratibn, it cannot be considered an
admission of the cause of action stated in the declaration.
Suppose the plaintiff had -demurred to-this plea, and the court
had given judgment for him upon the demurrer; .-a jury
would have been necessary to assess the damages. The court
could not have given judgment for the damages claimed in the
declaration. Nor would the plea be evidence upon which the
jury could assess the damages. " This would be treating that.as
an admission of the demand, which-the court had said was no
answer to the allegation in the declaration. The-plea being
considered a nullity, the case would stand as if no plea had
been put in, and the i'laihtiffs would be bound to prove their"

SUPREME COURT.
1Srmonton vs. Winter ind-Bowman.]

cause, of action. Or if the plaintffy. instead of g6ing to trial,
had treated the plea as no a nswer to.the declaration, and taken
judgment as -by nil dicit, the daniages must have been assessed
by a jury, and the plaintiffs would have been bound to prove
their cause of action. This' general plea of payment of all
that was due amounts to .no more thin 'averring that nothing
was due. Had'the Aotion been upon a bond or other instrument for the payment of money, the instrument itself would
show what was due. But this is an action of covenant sounding in damages, and such damages depend upon matter dehors
the instrument declared on, and must be ascertained by piroof
aliunde. It is laid down in the books, that although the object
of the action of iovenant is the recovery of-a money demanded,
the distinction between the terms, damages, and money in numero, is material to be attended to. Chitty's Plead. 113.
The court, therefore, erred in the instruction given to the
jury, that it was no t necessary for the plaintiffs to prove any
of the averments in tl-3ir declaration.
It is not deemed necessary to express any definitive opinion
upon the validity of the pleas to which the plaintiffs have de'a
murre.
It may not be amiss, however, to intimate that had
it become material to decide those points, it is probable the
judgment of the court below, upon the demurrers, would be
sustained.
The judgmen't of the circuit court must be reversed, and
the cause remanded, with dfrections to issue !venire facias de
novo.
This cause caute on to be heard'on the transcript of the
record from the circuit court of the United States, for the district of Columbia, holden in and for the county of Washington, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof,
it is considered, ordered and adjudged by this court, tht
the judgment of the said circuit court in this cause be, and the
same is hereby reversed, and that this cause be, and the same
is hereby remanded to the said circuit court, with. directions
to award a venire facias de novo.

