JANUARY TERM 1831.

LEssEE or JAMES B. CLARKE AND OTHERS, PLAINTIPFS In
ERROR VS. JORN COURTNEY AND OTShRS, DEFENDANTS IN
ERROR.
The clerk of the court brought into court, tinder process, a letter of attorney, and left a copy of it, by consent of the plaintiffs and defendants; returning home with the original. M.a witness stated that the clerk of the court
showed him the instrument, the signature of which he examined, and he believed it to be the hand writing of the party to it;'with whose hand writing
he was acquainted. Another witness stated that the instrument shown to
M. was the original power of attorney. The letter of attorney purl~ortef to
be executed and delivered by -James B. Clarke, of the city of New York,
and Eleanor his wife," to "Carey L. Clarke, of the city of New York," on the
7th of October 1796, in the presence of three witnesses. .By the court: In
the ordinary course of legal proceedings, instruments under seal, purporting
!o be executed in the presence of a witness, must be proved by the testimony' of the subscribing witness, or.his absence sufficiently accounted'
for. When he is dead, or cannot be found, or is without the jurisdiction of the court, or otherwise incapable of being produced, the next
secondary evidence is the proof of his hand writing; and that, when proved,
affords prima facie evidence of a due execution of the instrument: for it is presumed that he cotild not have subscribed his name to a false attestatioK. If
upon due search and inquiry no one can be found who can prove his hand
writing;no doubt resort may then be had to proof of the hand writing of
the party who executed the instrument. Such proof may always be produced
as corroborative evidence of its due and valid execution; though it is not, ex-.
cept under the limitation stated, priinary evidence. Whatever.may have been
the origin of the rule, and in whatever reason it may have been founded, it
has been too long established to be disregarded, or to justify an inquiry into its
original correctness. The rule was not complied with in the case at bar. The
original instrument was not produced at the trial, nor the subscribing witnesses,
or their non-production was not accounted for. The instrument purports to
be an ancient one; but no evidence was offered, in this stage of the cause, to
connectit with possession under it, so as to justify its admission as an ancient
deed, without iurther proof. The agreement of the parties disperised with the
production of the original instrument, vbu"t not with the ordinary prpof of the
dbe execution of the original, in the same manner as if the original were
present.
A power of attorney "1to sell, dispose of, contract, and bargain for land, &c. and
to execute deeds, contracts, and bargains for the sale of the same," did not
authorize a relinquishment to the state of Kentucky of the land of the con-,
stituent, under the act of the legislature of that state of 1794; which allowed
persons who held lands subject to taxes, to reinquish and 'disclaim their title
thereto, by making an entry of the tract or the part thereof disclaimed with,
the surveyor of the county.
A power'of attorney from "James B. Clarke-and Eleanor his wife," to " Carey
L. Clarke," for the sale of lands, is not properly or legally executed in the fol-

SUPREME COURT.
[Lessee of Clarke et a]. vs. Couitney et al.
lowing form:" I, the said Carey L. Clarke, attorney as afoiresaid. &e. do." - In
Witness whereof the said Carey'L. Clarke, attorney as aforesaid, has hereunto
subscribed his hand and seal this 25th day of November in the year of our Lord
1800. Carey L. Clarke [L. S.]" This act does not purport to be the act of the
principal but of the attorney. This may savour of refinement,-since it is apparent that the party intended to pass the interest and title of his principals.
But the law looks not to the intent alone, but to the fact whether the intent
has been executed in such a manner as to possess a legal validity.
In the case of Hawkins vs. Barney's" Lessee, at this term, it was decided that
when the plaintiff's title, as exhibited by himself, cpntains an exception and
shows that he has conveyed a part of the tractor land to a third .person, and it
is unce rtain whether the defendants are in possession of the land not conveyed, the onus probandi, to prove the defendant on the ungranted part is on
the plaintiff.
If a mere trespasser, without any.claim or'pretence of title, enters into land, and
holds the same adversely to the title of the owner, it is an ouster or disseisin
of the owner. But in such case the possession f the trespasser is bounded by
his actual occupancy, and consequently the owner is not disseised except as to
the portion so occupied.
Where a person enters into land under a deed or title, his possession is construed
to be co-extensive with his deed or title; and- although the deed or title may
turn out to be defective or void, yet the true owner will be deemed to be disseised to the extent of the boundaries of such deedor title. This, however, is
bubject to -ome qualifications. For if the true owner be at.the same time in
possession of part of the land, clAsming title to the whole, then his seisin extends, by construttion of law, to alf
the land which is not in tlie actual POSsession or occupancy, by'enclosure or otherwise, of the party so claiming under
a defective deed or title.
In, the case bf The Society forPropagating the Gospel vs. The Town of Pawlet,
4 Peters, the court held, that where a party entered as a mere trespasser, withouttitle, no ouster could be presumed in favour of such.a naked possession; but
that when a party entered under a title adverse to the plaintiff, it was au ouster
of, and an adverse possession to the true owner. The doctrines recognized
by this court are in harmony with those established by the authority of other
courts: especially by the court of Kentucky.

ERROR to the circuit court of the United States,. for the
district of Kentucky.
This was an actionof ejectment instituted in February 1821,
against a number. of persons in"possession of a large tract of
land, containing fifty-five thousand three hundred and ninety
acres, in the state of Kentucky. The suit was afterwards dismissed, by the plaintiffs, as to forty of the defendants.
The declaration contained five counts, each count statitig
separate demises of the same tract of -land, The first was on
the demise of James'B. Clarke, of the ist of September 1820,
for fifty-fve thousandthree hundred and ninety acres, granted

JANUARY TERM 1831;
[Lessee of Clarke et al. vs. Courtney et al.]

by Virginia, to Martin Pickett, by patent, bearing date on the
10th December 1785. "Beginning at a sugar tree and white
oak, at the head of- a hollow corner, to another survey of the
said Pickett, and of younger Pitt's land, thence with a line of
said Pickett's survey of forty-four thousand seven hundred
and forty acres," &c. describing the abuttals as set forth in the
patent.
The second count was on the demise of John Bryant, Maxwell and wife, Anna Maria Maxwell, and Eliza Bryant Grant,
heirs of John Bryant, deceased. The third was on the demise
of Abraham Schuyler, and Neelson and wife. The fourth of
Theodocia, Thomas, and John B. Grant. The fifth owfseveral
demises made by John B. Maxwell, Anna Maria Maxwell,
Eliza B. Grant, Theodocia S. Grant, Thomas R. Grant, John
B. Grant, Abraham S. Neelson and wife.
The case was tried at November term 1826; when the verdict and judgment were for the defendants.
In the course of the trial the plaintiffs took three bills of exceptions to the opinions of the court on the matters sef forth
thereon.
The first bill of exceptions sets forth: that on the trial of the
cause some of the defendants professing to hold a conveyance
from the plaintiff, Clarke, by Carey L. Clarke as attorney in.
fact of the said plaintiff, offered in evidence, a deed and letter
of attorney, the former executed by Carey S. Clarke as the
attorney in fact of James B. Clarke and Eleanor Clarke, his
wife, on the 23d October 1800, to Robert Payne, and the latter the power of attorney, executed at the city of New York,
on the 7th of October 1796. The deed, to Robert Payne,
which was duly admitted to record, released to him all James
B. Clarke's title to all the land embraced by the surveys of
John and Robert Todd, on the North Fork of Eagle and
Mill Creek, so far as they interfere with the patent to Martin
Pickett, under which Robert Payne claimed; and gave testimony likewise, conducing to prove them. And that, Andrew
Moore, the clerk of the Harrison circuit court, who brought
the letter of attorney into this court, under process for that
purpoge,_desiring to return, and considering it his duty to retain possession of that instrument, by consent of plaintiff and
defendant, departed with it, leaving a copy. And at a
VOL. V-2 Q

SUPREMP COURT.
tLessee of Clarke et al. vs. Courtneyet al.]

subsequent day, Moses L. Miller was introduced as a witness
to prove the letter of attorney, Who stated that being summo'ned as a.witness he met with the clerk of Harrison afore-,
said, in Georgetown, who showed him an instrument, the
signature to Whicbr he examined, and he believed it to be the
hand writing of James B. Clarke, with whose hand writing
he was aqquainted. And another witness was examined,
tending to prove that the instrument, so shown by said 'Moore
to Miller, was the same previously read before this court as
aforesaid.
Whei) Andrew Moore, the clerk of Harrison court, was
about to resume possession of the letter of attorney-and todepart, the attorney of the plaintiff-declared that he ,had no
objections. No further evidence was offered relative to the
power of attorney.
To'the admission of the testimony-of Miller, the plaintiff
objected, especially in the absence of the letter of attorney;
but the court overruled the objection, and submitted the tetimonr to the jury, as tending to prove that instrument; to
which the plaintiff excepted.
-The second bill of exceptions statbd, that the plaintiff proved
and read in evidence, a patent from the commonwealth of
Virginia, to Martin Pickett, dated 10th of December 1785,
for fifty-five thousand three hundred and ninety'acres,." beginning at a sugar tree and white oak, at the head of a hollow
corner to said Pickett's and younger Pitt's land, thence with a
line of said Pickett's survey of forty-four thousand seven
hurk-:red.and forty acres, being part of said entry, north 9.
east, &c." being the same abuttals set forth in the declaration
of ejectment, and in the power of attorney.
And 'also a deed from the said'Martin Pickett of Virginia,
to William and John Bryant for the said land, dated May 1st,
1793; and also a deed from William Bryant to James B.
Clarke, dated 18th July 1794, for an undivided moiety of
the said land; and also a deed from John Bryant to James
B. -Clarke, dated. October 13th 179.1, for the other moiety;
he having proved the possession of the <defendants, and
that James B. Clarke at the date of his deed and ever.since,
was and had been, a citizen and resident in the state of New
York.

JANUARY TERM 1831.
ELessee of Clarke et al. vs. Gourtney et al.]

The plaintiff relied solely on the demise from James B.
Clarke, and gave no evidence on the other demises-and relied solely upon the patent to Pickett for fifty-five thousand
three hundred and ninety acres-none of the defendants being
within the patent to Pickett for forty-four thousand seven.
hundred and forty acres.
The defendants offered in evidence the following exhibits:
a release of forty-nine thousand nine hundred and fifty-twp
acres'by Carey, L. Clarke, as attorney for James B. Clarke
and John Bryant, bearing date 25th November1800-acknowledged same day, before John Payne, Ahe surveyor of Scott
county, by him certified-afterwarda lodged with the auditor
of public accounts:---it recites that James B. Clarke and wife,
and John Bryant and wife,' had appointed' Carey L. Clarke
their attorney, to sell, transfer, and convey a certain tract on
the waters of Eagle creek, in the county of Scott and state of
Kentucky, containing one hundred thousand one hundred and
ninety-two abres, entered in the name of Martin Pickett, and
which tract of land is now held by the said Clarke and Bryant,
as tenants in common: "Now; therefore, I, the 'said Carey
L. Clarke, attorney as aforesaid, in pursuance of an act of the
.legislature of the state of' Kentucky, authorizing claimants of
land within its commonwealth to relinquish, by themselves or
their "attornies, any part or parts of their claims to the commonwealth; I do hereby relinquish to the commonwealth of,
Kentucky, all the right, title, interest, property, claim and
demand of the said Clarke and Bryant, of, in and to the hereinafter described tracts of land, being part of the above mentioned tract, and lying within the boundaries, viz.
here the deed specifies various conflicting surveys, and gives
the quantity in the various surveys; also specifies certain other
quantities by boundaries expressed, altogether amounting to
forty-nine thousand nine hundred and fifty-two acres.
Also a release, bearing date 25th November 1801, executed
by the said Carey L. Clarke, as attorney in fact for John Bryant,
reciting the act of assembly aforesaid, authorizing the relinquishment Df lands to the commonwealth, specifying various
conflicting surveys and other specific boundaries of the several
parcels, amounting to thirty-four thousand, and twenty-seven,
acres-also certified by the surveyor of Scott, and filed in the

SUPREME COURT.
[Lessee of Clarke et al. vs. Courtney et al.]

auditor's office-with a transcript by the auditor, from the
books of his office, certifying theentries for taxes, of the fiftyfive thousand three hundred and ninety acres,-and the subsequent relinquishment of forty-nine thousand nine hundred
and fifty-two acres thereof, and the sale to the state for taxes
of three thousand four hundred antd thirty-eight acres-also,
the entry for taxes of the forty-four thousand five hundred and
forty-seven adres; the release to the state of thirty-fout thousand and twenty-nine-thereof, and that tlfL'residue was $he
property: of Yohn Hawkins of George (lXentucky) :-annexed
also is the certificate of the auditor, that neither James B.
Clarke, -or John Bryant, appear to have paid any taxes since
the said relinquishments were made. To prove which he
relied upon the power of attorney to Carey L. Clarke, mentioned in a former bill of exceptions, and the original relinquishment from the auditor's office, and proved the execution
thereof by John Payne, -the surveyor of-Scott county, wherein
the land relinquished then was situate,.
John Payne also stated, that in the year 1794, or thereGriswold came.to his residence in Scott county,
abouts, claiming the land in .Pickett'spatent, by contract with Clarke;
tbat'the deponent and Robert Parker, the surveyor of Fayette,
made out a connected 'lot showing the interfering claims set
forth in this relinquishment, and Griswold, expressing dissatisfaction with the claim and the contract, returned. Afterwards Carey L. Clarke came, to Kentucky, avowing himself
the agent of Clarke by the letter of attorney, a copy of which
is set forth in the bill of exceptions taken in this cause: that
Carey L. Clarke in 1796, or thereabouts, called on the witness., and expressed a disposition to relinquish. The witness
advised Clarke that he might be able to prevail for some. of
the land, and had better not make the relinquishment. Afterwards in the year 1800, the relinquishment was prepared by
Carey L. Clarke, in his own hand writing, and executed in
the surveyor's office', before said Payne, and he the surveyor
certified i'and took copies: Carey L. Clarke then took the
original; and the witness having no record book for the purpose (this being the only relinquishment ever made in his
office for taxes), still kept, a copy, with his private papers, and
he did not deliver the copy to his successor in office, (and did

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[Lessee of Clarke 4t al. vs. Courtney et al.]

not suppose Clarke hdd used it till lately), when he resigned
and handed over the records; which took place some years
afterwards.
Porter Clay, the present -auditor of state, produced the
original,-stating on examination, that he found it in his office,
and that no tax had been paid upon that part of the tract embraced by that instrument subsequent to its date.
The attorney ,for the plaintiff then made a motion to the
court to instruct the jury, that the instrument under the proof
did not bind the plaintiff, and could not bar his recovery: but
the'court overruled the motion, and instructed the jury that
the said relinquishment for the forty-nine thousand nine hundred and fifty-two acres, if the execution thereof was satisfactorily proved, was a bar to the recovery of all the land described in said relinquishment:
Andi, on the motion of the defendants, the court instructed
the jury, that if they believed the execution of the power of
attorney from James B. Clarke to Carey L. Clarke, and of the
relinquishment in. evidence, then it was incumbent on the
plaintiff to maintain his action, to show that the defendants,
or some of them, were at the service of the ejectment, outside
of the several parts relinquished to the state:. to which several
opinions of the court the plaintiff excepted.
The third bill of exceptions stated, that the plaintiff having
given in evidence the patent to Pickett, the deed to John hnd
William Bryant, the deeds from John and William Bryant to
the plaintiff, James B. Clarke, and proved that the said James
B. Clarke was, at the date thereof, and ever since, resident of
the state of New York, and that the title papers aforesaid, all
embrace the land in controversy, and that the defendants were
all in possession at the time of the commencement of this suit;
and after the defendants had given the evidence touching the
relinquishment as set forth in the, bill of exceptions on file in
this cause, and the court had given the iristructidns and opinions therein also contained; the plaintiff gave testimony conducing to prove, that some of the'defendants, to wit:-Wil1Jam Hinton, James Hughes, John Vance, John Gillum,
Henry Antle, Jeremiah Antle, Peter Sally, Benjamin Sally,
Samuel Courtney, &c. were not within the limits set forth
by the said instrument of relinquishment; and these all rely-

326

SUPR-MME COURT.
[Lessee of Clarke,et al. vs. Courtney et al.]

ing in their defen'ce upon their possession, they ga.ve in evidence a patent to James Gibson, and a patent to Sterrett and
Grant.
That Gibson 2s patent is for six hundred and-fifty-seven acres,
surveyed 4th ;:Decembe. 1783, patented March '1st, 1793.
Sterrett nd: Grant's patent, one thousand six hundred fnd
twenty-nine acres, entered 161h.January 1783, surveyed, lst
November 17.92---patented 24th October 1799--- -And
-gave testimony conducing to prove, that the said Sallys,
Courtfieya, &c.- were within the. boundary presdribed -by the'
patent of Grant and Sterrett: and Hinton i , Hughes, Gillum,
Vhnce, Antle., were wi thin the bounds of the grat to Gibsone
and touching, the possession within Gibson's paten4 the witness stated, that in the year 1796, William Hintoft ertered
withih the patent of Gibson, claiming a part of the tract ubder
that granf' and that tenement has been occupied ever since:
and at subs.queiit periods, the other teilants claiming under
said William -Hint, n, had settled in the same manner upon
other parcels, claimed by them as parts of said William Hin-ton's purchase, and from the time of their respective settldment , their possession had been continued: the witness knew
nbt the extent of boundary.of any of the purchases, and no
title papers were produced.
And touching the possession within the-grant to Sterrett
and Grant, the witness stated that in the year 1791 or 172,
Griffin Taylor entered under that patent: that tenement has
been-still occupied by Taylor and- his alienees, and at periods
subsequent, the other tenants had entered and taken possession,
claimifig under said Taylor within the limits of. the patent to
Sterrett and Grant. No- written evidences of purchase were
offered.
Whereupon the attorney for the plaintiff made a motion
to the court to instruct the jury,
1. That the "Pssessionof those defendants Was no bar to
the ptaintiff's action.
o. That the statute of limitations could only protect the defendants to the extent that had actually enclosed their respective tenements; and occupied for twenty years preceding the
commencement of this suit.
The court overruled the motion of the plaintiff'for the in-

JANUARY TERM, 1831.
[Lessee of Clarke et at. vs. Courtney et a.]

structions aforesaid, as made; and instructed the jury thit adverse possession was a question of fact: that under the adverse
patents given in evidence it was not necessary to show a paper title derived under those adverse grants, to make out adverse possession:-but that such hostile possession might
be proved by parol; that an entry under one of the junior
grants, given in evidence by the defendants, and within tlhe
boundaries of the elder grant of Pickett, made by one claiming
under such junior grant without any specific metes and bounds,
other than the. abuttals of the grant itself, did. constitute an
adverse possessioi to the whole extent of the abuttals and
boundaries under which such entry was made.
To the refusal of the court to give the instructions asked
by the plaintiff; and to the instructions given by the court, the
plaintiff excepted.
The case was argued by Mr Loughborough. for the plaihitiff
in error; and by Mr Bibb for the defendant.
For the plaintiffs in error it was contended,
As to the proof of the letter of attorney.
The court erred in admitting a copy to the jury. The original was in existence, and it was in the power of the defendants to produce it. This should have beei done.. Peake's
Ev. 9S; 9 ,Wheaton, 558.
Tayloe vs,. Riggs, '1 Peters
591,. To admit the copy as evidence, it was necessary
first to have proved the ezecution of the original. Rees
vs. Lawless, 4 Littell's Rep. 220. Elmondorf vs. Carmichael, 4 Littell's Rep. 479. This was not 'done. There
were subscribing witnesses to the deed. * Proof of handwriting in such case is secondary evidence; and to admit it, a
foundation must be laid by showing that the testimony of the
subscribing witnesses cannot be had. Here the *bsence of the
suliscribing witness was not accounted for in any mariner:
proof of handwriting was therefore incompetent . Peake's
Evidence, 101, and cases cited in notes. Fox et a]. vs.
Reel et al. 3 Johns. 477. Henry et al. vs. Emott, 2 Wendell, 475., i'Murtry vs. Frank, 4 fd6nroe's Rep. 39,, 1
Starkie's Ev. 330.
But admitting a sufficient excuse shown for the absence of
the subscribing witnesses, the next best evidence is proof of

SUPREMt COURT.
[Lessee. of Clarke vt al. vs. Courtney et al.]

their hand writing. Phill. Xv. 420, 421. Starkie Er. ubi
supra. Norris', Peake, 152. Huby vs..-Champlin, 4 Johns. Rep.
461 and notes, It doe.s not appear that this proof was given
here. Proof of the party's signature was therefore incompetent and misplaced..
That the plaintiff's counsel did not object to the withdrawal
of the original by Moore, does not preclude his exception to
the secondary evidence. The instrument constituted a part of
the defendant's evidence, offered by themselves; which they
had a right at any time to withdraw, without the plaintiff's
assent. The plaintiff could have made no objection. At the
proper time'the proper objection was made; that was, when
the secondary and objectionable evidence was offered. And
surely the defendants cannot be permitted to cut off, the objection upon the ground that the plaintiff did not make himself the guardian of their case; by forewarning them that he
would in due time .avail himself of a just exception to incompetent testimony.. No surprise could have been occasioned
by the objection. It was one which the defendant's counsel
should have expected.
2. Btt if the court shall consider the power of attorney
sufficiently proved, it is insisted, by the plaintiff, that it does
,uot authorize the act of relinquishment attempted to be per.forined by the agent.. In, the ommeneement it authorizes the
,attorney "to sell aid dispose of, cbntract and agree for, a
certain tract of'land," &c. and, after describing the land,.pro•ceeds as follows: ."4 hertoy fully apthorizing and empowering
the said Carey L. Clarke to sell, dispose of, contract and, b~argain for, all or so much of said tract of land, and to such person or persons, and af such fime and times, as he shall think
proper; and, in our or one.of our names, to enter into, acknowledge, and execute all such deeds, contracts, and bargains, for the sale of the same, as he shalJ think proper."
Then follows a proviso, limiting the attorney's power to
make warrantees.
Whether this power of attorney be regarded in the whole,
or with a view to its several parts,'it will not appear to give
the agent any authority to abandon the land of his principal
by relinquishing it to the commonwealth. No one can bdlieve that James B. Clarke expected to escape from his title
in this manner. The agency intemded seems to have been

JANUARY TERM 1831.
v9. Courtney et al.]
fLessee of Clarke et al.

,onefor the sale of the land, or such parts of it as the agent
might think proper. This will appear froni the first clause
recited: and when the power to execute deeds, contracts, and
bargains for the principal is given, it is limited to such as shall
be "for the sale" of the lands. *When, therefore, the agent
attempted to execute a deed, not for the sale of the land, he
exceeded his authority. That an authority must be strictly
pursued: Bac. Abr. title Authority. 1 Com. Dig. title Attorney. Nixon vs. Hyserott, 5, Johns. Rep. 58.
The power of attorney shown does not appear to have been
that under which C. L. Clarke acted. By the relinquishment, it appears that the attorney-had a joint letter of attorney
from Clarke and Bryant, tenants in common of a tract of one
hundred thousand one hundred and ninety-two acres of land,
to sell, &c. The authority shown is from J.B. Clarke, sole
tenant of fifty thousand acres. This does not support the relinquishment; it is inconsistent with it.
3. But the relinquishment was not duly made. The power
to relinquish did not exist at common law; 'it was given by
the act of assembly of Kentueky of the 4th December 1794.
1 Littell's Laws, 22. Digest Laws of Kentucky, 845.
The act provides that the relinquishment shall be -by
making an entry of the tract, or that part thereof so disclaimed,
with the surveyor of the county in which the land, or the greater
part thereof, shall lie, in a book to be by him kept for that purpose; which said, entry shall describe the situation and bounary of the land disclaimed, with certainty, and be signed by
the party in the presence of the surveyor, who shall attest the
same."7

It is a principle df law that enabling statutes must be
strictly pursued. Where a statute innovates upon the common law, and confers authority-in derogation thereof to do a
particular thing; as in this case, to surrender land to the commonwealth; the act must be.performed in the manner directed
by the statute, else it cannot prevail: not by the common law,
for that does not at all permit-it; not by the statute, because
its requisitions have not been complied with. The statute declares that when certAin things are done in the mode pointed
out by it, they shall operate a relinquishment of the title.
To make an act valid, therefore, under this statute, it must
VOL. V:-2 R

SUPREME COURT.
[Lessee of Clarke et al. vs. Courtney et al.]

be shown to have been performed in the prescrijied manner.
In Wilson vs. Mason, 1 Cranch 97, this court held that a party
',claiming under a statute, should show that its requirements
had been, fully complied with; and that the court could not
substitute any equivalent act for that required bythe law.
The court will perceive no motive for liberality in the constructioh of this act of the Kentucky legislature. The land
had been appropriated by entry, survey,and patent, all on record; the relinquishment should have been made of record
in a book kept for that purpose by the surveyor, signed by the paity in presence of the surveyor, by him attested;
and if by an agent, that officer should have received tne power
duly authenticated, and recorded it with the entry. None of
these requisitions have been fulfilled. The relinquishment
offered was in no book-not even held officially by the surveyor; for he laid the copy aside with waste papers, and
handed none of them to his successor. Suppose an entry upon
a land warrant had been thus made; no court could recognize
it as a valid act.
In Hardin vs. Taylor (4 Monroe's Reports, 516,) the court
of appeals of Kentucky deemed it a: valid objection to a relinquishment made by an attorney, that the power of attorney
was not filed in the surveyor's office. The relinquishment,
in this case, was, it is true, after the act of 1.801, which di'rected the power to be recorded; but that direction was only
an affirmance of an established principle of law that the authority of the agent should be evidenced as the act performed
by him.
In England the title to land can pass neither to nor from the
king, except by matter of record. 2 Blackstone's Commentaries, 344.
This rule is applicable to the commonwealth of Virginia.
Fairfax's Devisees vs. Hunter's Lessee, 7 Cranch, 603. In
the case of Barbour vs. Nelson, 1 Littell's Rep. 59, the court
of ippeals of Kentucky recognize the principle as existing in
that state. Cited also to this point, 4 Littell's Rep. 479.
In Robinson vs. Buff, &c., 3 Littell's Reports, 38, the court
of appeals of Kentucky decided that the common law prevailed in that state; and that an act of the legislature which provided that lands which could not be sold for taxes should be

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[Lessee of Clarke et al. vs. Courtney et al.]

"stricken off to the state," did not affect it: and they held that
the title to lands actually stricken off to the state was not
thereby vested in it.
If the rule, that a record is necessary to pass 4 freehold to
the king or to the commonwealth, be as inflexible as these authorities show it; then. that record must be complete between
the holder of the freehold and the state. Such .is not the ease
here. Admitting the relinquishment to be a record, still it is
a record made up 'between C. L. Clarke and the commonwealth, and to which J. B. Clarke, the owner of the title, -is
no party. It does not appear, of record, that C. L. Clarke
was the attorney of J..B: Clarke for the purpose of this relinquishment. The authorities it is believed will show that to
an inquest of office to vesj, a freehold in the king, it was necessary that the party interested should appear in.person, or
by an attorney, whose warrant was entered on the record of
the proceeding.
But, furthermore, this deed of relinquishment is invalid
upon its face, as not having been executed in the proper manner. It is executed in the -name of the attorney, not of his"
principal.
In Combe's case, 9 Coke, 76, it was resolved, that if attorneys have power by writing to make leases by indenture, they
cannot make indentures in their own names, but in the name
of him who gives them warrant.
In Frontin vs. Small, 2 Lord Raymond, 1418i S. C. 1
Strange, 705, held, that a deed purporting to be made by an,
attorney, in his own name, was void upon its face. Cited also
White vs. Cuyler, 6 )urn. East, 176 2 Stark. Ev. 477.
Elwell vs. Shaw, 16 Mass. Rep. 42. 1 Greenleaf, 339, S.C. is
a case analogous to the present. "There the supreme court of
Massachusetts review all the cases, and adduce from them the
rule now advanced.
The case of Parker vs. Klett, reporied in Raymond and
Modern, which would seem to conflict with the rule, in the
case of an act in pais not of a deed. That the deed in question is not a common law but a statutory deed, cannot vary
the rule. The act authorizing this relinquishment, .it is -true,
saysr that lands may be relinquished to the commonwealth by
the holder or his attorney; but as it does not prescribe any

SUPREME COURT.
[Lessee of Clarke et al. vs. Courtney et a l.]

particular mode in ,which the attorney may perform the act,
it follows that he must proceed according to the common law
rule above stated.
'he relinquishment does not describe the boundaries of the
tracts given up with -the certainty required by the statute. It
is therefore invalid.,
It is insisted that the circuit court erred in the instruction
predicated from the relinquishment; by which -was thrown
upon the plaintiff the onus of showing that the defendants
were without the relinquished tracts.
The boundaries of the abandoned territory are no' defined.
The jury could not say, from the documents and proof before
them, that the land in controversy was embraced by that writing. As~the obscurity arose out of the defendants' proof, and
affected their defence, it was incumbent upon them to clear it
up. The plaintiff had made out his cause of action clearly, and
had closed his proof. This is not the case of an exception
contained in the title papers of the plaintiff. If, after the plaintiff had proved his title, the defendant had shown in evidence
a deed from him for one hundred acres of land, it certainly
would be required of them also to show its boundaries.
The instruction of th court supposes that all the relinquished tracts were within the patent of fifty-five thousand three
hundred and ninety acres. Upon the proof.offered this does
not appear to be so. The fact of the relinquishment does not
afford any evidence of it. It shows only that the surveys relinquished' lie within the claim of one hundred thousand one
hundred and ninety-two acres, enterzed in the name of Martin
Pickett.
The case of Hawkins vs. Barney's Lessee, decided at the
present term, does not support the instruction ot the court bdlow. As that case is understood, it is this--plaintiff showed
his title and proved defendant in possession: defendant then
showed that plaintiff had conveyed his title to a third person;
and the plaintiff showed a conveyance back to him, containing
on its face an exception of part of the land. This court said
'he should show the defendants out of theexcepted part. This
was a case of an exception inthe title papers of the plaintiff,
which he was bound to show presented no bar to his recovery.
The case cited from Marshall and Monroe's Reports, sustain

JANUARY TERM .1831.
[Lessee of-Clarke et al. vs. Courtney et al.]

fully that decision; but they do not bear upon the preseu't
case, lgecause they are all cases in which the ambiguity grew
out of the plaintiff's title.
When the defendant shows an elder outstanding title for
part of the land, he must show what part. Buckley vs. Cunningham, 4 Bibb. 285.
The transcript from the books of the auditor, that three
thousand four hundred and thirty-eight acres had been sold.to
the state, is no evidence of that fact. It does not show the title
vested in the state, and the defendants cannot avail- themselves
of it. Robinson vs. Huff, &c., 3 Littell's Rep. 38.The recital in the power of attorney, that J. B. Clarke had
conveyed to John Bryant five thousand three hundred and
ninety acres of the land, is not evidence in this case, and for
these defendants. Peake's Evid. 111, and cases there cited;
1 Esp. Ca. 98.
The recital of that which is a nullity cannot estop.
The deed of a person out of possession is merely'void, and,
does not prevent the grantor from maintaining his action. Jackson v§. Vredenburg, 1 John. Rep. 161. Williams vs. Tibbits,
5 John. Rep. 489. Meredith vs. Kennedy, Litt Sel. Cases,
328, Jackson vs. BrinckerhoffT, 3 Johh. Cases, 101.
The case of Carver vs. Jackson, 4 Peters's Rep. does not
show that the recital in the power of attorney in this case is
evidence against the plaintiff. That was the case of the recital
of a lease in a deed of release, which the court say is evidence.
But the case decides nothing beyond this.
But admitting the recital is evidence, should not the defendants, to make it available, show themselves within thle land
recited to have been conveyed by Clarke? If the. revital is
evidence that the title is out of Clarke, one of the lessors, it
also shows that it is -in the heirs of John Bryant, who are also
lessors of the plaintiff.
The proof of possession is insufficient to warrant the finding
of the jury. Hinton, one of the defendants, entered within
the junior patent of Gibson, claiming a part of that tract by
purchase; and subsequently others of the defendants settled
upon parcels claimed by purchase of Hintobn. His was not a
contract for an interest in common in the whole tract, but for
an entire parcel. His possession, therefore, was confined to

SUPREME COURT.
[Lessee of Clarke el al. vs. Courtney et al.]

his purchase; and, as he did. not show its boundaries, should,
not be a -bar for more than was actually enclosed by h'im.
When the otber defendants entered, what were the boundaries
of their parcels, or whether they were in fact within Hifiton's
first purchase, do not appear.
Adverse possession is a question of fact; but, in the absence
of the title papers of the tenant, the quo animo of his entry
and taking possession should appear- The extent of possession
depends upon this. Calk vs. Linn's Heirs, 1 Mar. 346. 3
Mar. 94. *Owingsvs. Gibson, 2 Mar. 515.
That possession should be restrained to defendants' close,
&c. Green vs. Liter, 8 Cranch, 229.
Ifjunior patentee enter upon the interference, and then sell
by. metes, his possession is limited by bounds of the land sold.
Cassaday vs. Trotter, 3 Mar. 365.
The ,adverse possession under Gibson's patent was taken
aftei the title had vested in plaintiff's lessor.
Though the record states that Taylor entered as early as
1-791 or" 1192, under Sterrett and Grant's patent, yet it appears that patent did not issue until 1799. Under this grant,
the adverse possession, therefore, did not begin before the
conveyance to Clarke. But the possession, of Taylor, and
those claiming under him, is not properly shown to be adverse. At the time he entered the plaintiff held the only
patent for the land. To protect himself under the patent afterwards issued, he should show some connexion with it. The
conveyance to Clarke, as regards this part of the land, cannot
be void on account of the law of champerty; because the
possession of Taylor is not adverse within that law, to make the
deed inoperative: or it is only so to the extent of his actual
enclosure, and the defendants, who entered afterwards, are not
saved by it. Barr vs. Gratz, 4 Wheaton, 214.
Possession taken before survey and. patent is .limited to
the actual close. Briooks vs. Clay, 3 Mar. 545. Henderson
vs. Howard's- Devisees, 1 -Mar. 26."
Patentee conveys part of his land-by bourids; grantee enters:
he gets possession only to the extent 6f his bounds, and patentee cannot avail himself of possession out of them. Maury
vs. Waugh, 1 Mar. 452.
Patentee extending protection to an occupant whose pos-.

JANUARY TERM 1831.
-[Lessee of Clarke et al. vs. Courtney et al.]

session is bounded, acquires possession only to the limits of
the occupant's claim. Lee vs. McDaniel,. 1 Mar. 234.
Under each of the junior patents shown by defendants, it
appears that possession was .taken by.purchasers of distinct
parcels. The entries, therefore, could not have.been by persons claiming to the abuttals of the patents. It was incumbent on defendants, if they would save more than their actual
closes, to show their rightful boundaries. It does not appear
that any of the tenements, except Hunter's and Taylor's, have
been occupied for twenty years before suit. Clay .s.White,
1 Munf. 162. Lessee of Potts vs. Gilbert, 3 Wash. C. C..Rep.

475.

Bonnell's Lessee vs. Sharp, 9 John. 162.

Brandt vs.

Ogden, I John. 157. Hardenburg vs. Schoonmaker, 2 John.
220. Jackson vs. Woodruff, 1 Cow. -Rep. 276. Jackson vs.
Camp, 1 Cow. Rep. 605. 2 John. Rep. 230.
Mr Bibb, for the defendants- insisted that the decisions of
the court upon the points set forth in the several bills of exceptions taken by the plaintiff, contain no 'just cause of exception: those motions were rightly ruled by the court: and the
instructions given, applied to the facts which the evidence conduced to prove, were correct expositions of the law.
The first bill of exceptions objects "to the admission of the
testimony of Miller, especially in the absence of the letter of
attorney."
Miller's testimony proved the hand writing of James B.
Clarke, the maker of the letter of attorney to Carey L. Clarke.
The exception has two aspects: 1. To the testimony itself;
2. To the absence of the power of attorney at the timne when
Miller's testimony was given.
As to the first, it is to be remembered that the ofiginal letter of attorney was brought into court, and evidence conducing
to prove its execution was given,to which evidence there was no
objection, and that evidence so given is not stated., The exception is to the after auxiliary testimony of Miller, as to the hand
writing of James B. Clarke.' If any previous evidence, conducing to prove the execution, could lay the foundation for
admitting proof of the hand writing of the maker of the instrument, then this court must presume that'such foundation
was laid.

SUPREME COURT.
[Lessee of Clarke et al. vs. Courtney et al.]

Not having made the whole evidence on this-subject a part
of the bill of exceptions, every intendment should be indulged
in favour of the court, and against him who excepts. Hodges
vs. Biggs, 2 Marsh. 222.
The party taking a bill of exceptions must state enough to
show that the opinion of the court was erroneous to his prejudice in that very case. Brown vs. M'Connell, 1 Bibb, 266.
The hand writing of the maker of the deed is proper auxiliary evidence to prove its execution in certain cases.
",When the subscribing witness is dead, insane, or absent
in aforeign country at the time of the trial, whether for a permanent residence or temporary purpose, or by the commission
of a-crime, or by some interest subsequent to the execution
of the instrument has become incompetent, proof of his
hand writing is the next best evidence. In the first case,
where the witness is dead, this alone (proof of his hand writing) has beeni held sufficient; but in the others, it has been
usual, and in one case was held to be necessary, to prove the
hand writing to the deed also; and in all these cases a foundation
must be laid by proving the situation of the subscribing witPeake's Evid. 100. Wallis, vs. Delaney, 7 Term
nesses."
Rep. 226. Gib. Law Evid. 105. Jones vs. Blount, 1 Haywood, 238. Mushrow vs. Graham, 1 Haywood, 361. Oliphant vs. Taggart, 1 Bay, 255. Hopkins vs. Degraffenreid,
2 Bay, 187. Nelius vs. Brichell, 1 Haywood, 19.
As to the absence of the power of attorney when Miller's
testimony was admitted, let it be noted that the original was
in custody of an officer, whose duty it was to lkeep it; no court,
state or federal, had rightful auth6rity to take it out of his custody: to bring him into court with the instrument was the
only mode of getting-that -power of attorney before the court
and jury: that process had been adopted, the officer had attended, the instrument had been produced and given in evidence: for the accommodation of the officer, who wished to
return home, but could not, consistent with his duty, leave the
paper; the plaintiff and defendant consented that he should
depart, leaving a copy.of the instrument. The instrument of
which Miller testified was identified as the same which the
clerk, Moore, had produced, and which had been read in the
case. Under these circumstances it seems that this ex-

JANUARY TERM 1831.
(Lessee of Clarke et al. vs. Courtney et al.]

ception .is captious; that it proceeded from a raging thirst for
a bill of exceptions, so scorching that a phaniom was grasped
atfor its gratification.
The second bill of exceptions presents two'questions:
Ist. The efficacy of the relinquishment in the surveyor's
office, bf the forty-nine thousand, nine hundred and fifty-two
acres, part of the -fifty-five thousand three hundred and ninety
acresa to jbincd the plaintiff, and bar his recovery as to so much
as was released.
2d. As to the instruction that it was incumbent on the plaintiff to show that some of the defendants were, at the service
of the ejecttaent, outside of the several parts relinquished to
the state.
1. As to the supposed inefficiency to bind the plaintiff, and
its want of potency to bar the plaintiff .pro tanto. The plaintiff, by his argument, supposes the power of attorney to Carey
L. Clarke is not broad enough to authorize a relinquishment to the state: and that if the power was sufficient, the
relinquishment was not consummated according to the
statute.
The authority is, "to sell and dispose of, contract and agree
for"-( fully authorizing the said Carey to sell, dispose of, contract and bargain for, all, or so much of said tract of land, and
to such person or persons, and at such time or times, as he shall
think proper ;7' ( and execute all such deeds, contracts, and
bargains," &c.
The statute undef which this relinquishment by James B.
Clarke was made to the commonwealth, passed in 1794. 2
Digest, Laws Ky. 845. This did rot require the power of
attorney under which an agent relinquished to be filed in the
surveyor's office: but the act of the 11th of December 1801
did. 2 Digest, 846.
The entry of relinquishment, so rnade with the surveyor, describes the land relinquished with certainty; was signed in the
presence of the surveyor, who tested it, as required by the
statute. Whether the surveyor kept his copy of it in a bound
book, or on a sheet of paper; and whether he delivered it to
hissuccessor or not; are facts immaterial. 'The deed was consummated by the signature, acknowledgement, attestation, and
delivery in the surveyor's officer as to keeping a book for such
VOL. V.-2 S

SUPREME COURT.
[Lessee of Clarke et al. vs. Courtney et al.]

purposes, that was but directory to the surveyor for safe keeping and preserving, the evidence of its interestg on behalf of
the state; hut the omission of the surveyor in this behalf could
not vitiate the act and deed of the party relinquishing. 1
Littell's Laws of Ky.
Act of 17920 64, § 14, 15.
The state of Kentucky commenced her system of land tax
in 1792. By her revenue laws non-residents were bound to
enter their lands for taxation, at first, with some commissioner;
but afterwards with the auditor of public accounts. Act of
1794, 265, § 2, 3.
The taxes were to be paid to the treasurer; his receipt to be
filed with the auditor, who was to give a quietus. Act Qf 1795,
321. 1797,7663, § 15. 2 Litt. 1798, 55. 1799, 316, §
15, 17.
If the taxes were unpaid as required by law, the auditor was
to transmit the list of lands and taxes due thereon (at first to
the 5heriff); but by a subsequent law to the register of the land
office, whose duty was to sell, at auction, the lands on the third
Monday of November, in every year, and transmit the accountof sales to the auditor; taxes in arrear to bear an interest
of ten per cent. per annum.
The state held a perpetual lien on the land for the payment
of the taxes: all personal property found upon the land in possession of any tenant or occupant, claiming under the proprietor from whom the taxes were due, was liable to distress for
the taxes: the ,tenant who paid taxes had a lien on the land for
reimbursement: the auditor was to keep-a book of transfers;
and non-residents, who transferred their lands entered with
the auditor for taxation, were bound to have the alteration
made accordingly in the auditor's office.
2 Digest, 946,
951
, 953.
Non-resid*ents and residents were required, upon pain of
forfeiture, to enter their lands for taxation by'the last day of
November 1795, but prolonged until 1st December 1798; and
until 15th December 1806, &c.
Lands offered for sale for the taxes, and not sold for the
amount, for want of bidders, to be stricken off to the state:
Those who had paid the taxes were entitled, upon relinquishing their interest, to have the taxes upon the land so relinquished refunded from the treasury.

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[Lessee of Clarke et al. vs. Courtney et al.]

Carey'L. Clarke, then by relinquishing for his principal a
part of the tract, disengaged the residue -from the taxes and
arrearages and interest due, and to become due,- upon the
part relinquished; prevented the sale of the whole tract for the
amount-of taxes due upon the whole-and if the taxes had
been paid upon the part relinquished, was entitled .to raw
them back. In effect he sold the forty-nine thousand nine
hundred fifty-two acres for the amount of taxes which had, accrued thereon from 1792 up to 1800; and by so doing disengaged the residue from liability to distress of sale 'for taxes
accrued or accruing upon the part relinquished.
2. As to the instruction that it was-incumbent on the plaintiff to show some of the defendants outside of the several
parts relinquished, to reeover in ejectment: the plaintiff must
,prove title. or right of entry, and that the defendant at the service of tfie. ejectment was in possession in some part of the
land, to which the plaintiff at that time had the right of
entry. It is not enough that the plaintiff once had title; if he
had'title and had parted with it before action brought, he
could not recover. •If be had parted with title to part of a
tract, he must still' prove the defendant pbssessed of that
which was,- not aliened; possessed of that to which his right
of entry was existitg. Taylor vs. 'Floyd, &c. S Marsh. 20.
7 Durn..and East, 323. Bull. N. P. 110.
The third bill of exceptions was taken to the refusal of the
court to instruct
1. That the possession of these defendants, within the patents of Gibson and Sterrett.and Grant, was no bar to the plaintiff's action.
2. That the statute of limitations could only protect them
to the extent of their actual inclosures of twenty years duration.
The counsel of the plaintiff in error having declined arguing the question presented by the first proposition, no notice
is taked of it.
Upon the second proposition "that the statute of limitations
could only protect the :defendants to the extent that hadactually enclosed their respective tenements, and occupied for
twenty years preceding the commencement of this suit.:"

SUPREME COURT.
[Lessee of Clarke et al. ,rs. Courtney et a .l

,

The court negatived.that-proposition, and instructed the jury:
,That adverse possession was a question of fact: that under
the adverse patents, given in evidence, it was not necessary to
show a paper title derived under those grants, to make out
adverse possession; but that, such hostile possession might be
proved by parol:
"That any entry under one of the junior grants, given in
evidence, and within - the boundaries of the elder grant of
Pickett, made by one claiming under such junior grant, without any specific metes and bounds, other than the abuttals of
the grant itself, did- constitute an adverse possession to the
whole extent of the abuttals and boundaries under which such
emry was made."
The counsel for the defendants insisted that the points, involved in this proposition for instruction moved by the plaintiff, were correctly ruled by the court.
It must be remembered that no evidence was adduced,tending
to prove any actual possession, by Pickett, or the lessors of
the plaintiff, under Pickett's patent.
Eniry, "by purchaser of part of a, survey not patented, his
purchase not meted: he is possessed of the whole. survey, and
possession is not limited to hi§ actual inclosure. Kendall vs.
Slaughter, 1 Marsh. 376;.Roberts vs. Sanders, 3 Marsh. 29;
Walden vs. The Heirs of Gratz, 1 Wheat. 295,
'Entry by one claiming under a deed of conveyance specify-.
ing the boundaries: he is possessed to the extent of those
boundaries, although the person who made the deed had only
an entry, not perfected by survey or patent, and not appearing to cover the land so deeded. Thomas vs. Harrow, 4
Bibb, 563; Smith's Heirs vs. Lockridge, 3 Litt. Rep. 20.
An occupant, possessing himself of part of a tract, with intent to occupy the whole, is p ssessed of the wholej although
he enters without the assent of the patentee, and without Iqy
written evidence of title. Taylor vs. Buckner, 2 Marsh 1.9;
Herndon vs. Wood, 2 Marsh, 44; Smith's Heirs vs. Lockridge, 3 Litt. Rep. 20.
Entry under a junior patent within the interference, no
possession existing under the elder patent; the possession so,
taken -uder' the junior patent is not limited to the close, but

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[Lessee of Clarke et al. vs. Courtney et al.]

is co-extensive with the interference. Fox vs. Hinton,, 4
Bibb, 559.
But it would have been improper for the court to have told
the jury that the limitation was no protection to those defendants who were within Gibson's survey; because the evidence
conduced to prove, and the'jury might have so found, that
those defendants were not within thepart to which James B.
Clarke had title.
That James B. Clarke had conveyed fiv6 thousand three
hundred and ninety acres, part of the fifty-five thousand three
hundred and ninety acres, to John Bryant, is proved by his
recital in the power of attorney of October 1796.
The recital in that power is evidence of the fact against
said James B. Clarke, and all persons claiming under him.
Carver vs. Astor, 4 Peters, 8, 19, 83.
Although there is a demise laid from the heirs of John
Bryant, the plaintiff gave no evidence to show that they were
within any of the savings of the statute, nor that John Bryant
was.
Neither did he give any evidence to show that the residue
of Pickett's patent, after deductingthe part conveyed to John
Payne, by deed of October, 1800, and the five thousand three
hundred ninety, acres conveyed to John Bryant,-'which remained to James B. Clarke, included these defendants. The
proof was, that they were within the patent of fifty-five thousand three hundred and ninety acres, and outside of the fortynine thousand nine hundred and fifty-two acres relinquished to
the state. But were they outside of the surveys of John and
Robert Todd, conveyed to Payne? Were they outside of
the five thousand three hundred and ninet3 acres conveyed to
Bryant? Had James B. Clarke the title to the land within
the survey of Gibson? James B. Clarke was not the only lessor; he was not the only substantial plaintiff.
This state of the evidence 'required of the plaintiff to open
his case' on the demise from the heirs. of John Bryant; having
failed to do so, he had no right to the instruction asked for;
he had no right -to' recover on the demise from James B.
Clarke. The plaintiff was Jhn Doe; the real actors were the
heirs of John Bryant, and others, as named in the 2d. 3d, 4th,
and 5th counts, as well as 'James B. Clarke. The motion

SUPREME COURT.
[Lessee of Clarke et a]. vs. CourtneV et &.]

for instruction was, that the plaintiff- wps not -barred .bythe
possbssion of the defendants; this instructidif, if given, would
have included the heirs of John Bryant and the other lessors,
as well as Garke. ' To this the court refused their assent.
Had th'-plaintiff asked a hypQtbetical instruction: that if
the jury found from the evidence, the land within Gibson's survey was within James, B. Clarke's. part of the
fifty-five thousand three hundred andninety acres, npt relinquished, nor sbld, nor conveyed from him, then the-possession of the defendants would be no bar to the demise from
James B. Clarke in that case, it would have been necessary
to bring into view the statute of Kentucky, passed 22d January ,1814, in force six months after its passage, repealing the
saving in the statute.9f limitations in favor of persons out of
the Commonwealth: 4 Litt. L. K. 91; 2 Digest,. 866; Kendall vs. Slaughter, i Marsh. 377 ta 380; M'Cluny vs..Suiliman, S -Peters, 277;. Jr ckson vs. Lainphire, 3 Peters, b90.
Possession of twenty years by a junior patented, within the
interference, tolls the right of entry of the elder patentee to
the whole extent of the.junior patent. Smith vs. Marrow, 5
Litt. Rep. 210. Botts vs. Shields's Heirs, 3 Litt. 34.
Where a tenant occupied the plantation, 'the presumption is
that he was in possession of all the woodland belonging to the
tract; and evidence of his possession being circumscribed,
mu st come'from those whose interest- requires the establishment of that fact. Hinton vs. Fox, 3 Litt. 383.
Written evidence of title is not necessary to create a hostile,
possession. Taylor vs. Buckner, 2 Marsh. 19. -Herndon vs.
Wond, 2 Marsh. 44.
Whether'the possession was averse or not to the plaintiff, is
properly a question of fact,. of which the jury are the compotent triers.. Bowles vs. Sharp, 4 Bibb, 551.
Nor is it necessary that possession should be held under
colour of title to render it adverse and transferable from one
to -another; so that the successive possessions may be knit together, and toll the right of entry. Powles vs. South, 4 Bibb,
55L
A continued, uninterrupted possession for twenty years, not
,only tolls the right of entry, but gives a right of possession
which will maintain an ejectment. Bull, N. P. 103. Stokes
.vs. Barry, Salk. 42i.

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[Lessee of Clarke et al. vs. Courtney et al.]

Mr Justice STORY *deliveredthe opinion-of the Court.
This is a writ of error founded on a judgment.of the circuit
court, in the district of Kenitucky, in an action of ejectment
in which the plaintiff in error was the original plaintiff. The
case is before us upon certain bills of exceptions taken -by the
plaintiff; and to the consideration of these the court will qddress their attention, without entering upon any examination
of other facts, not involved in the decision of therfi.
Some of the defendants professing to hold a conveyance.
from the lessor of the plaintiff, Clarke, made by Carey L.
Clarke, as his attorney in fact, offered in evidence the deed of
conveyance, and the letter of attorney, " and gave testimony
conducing to prove them. And Andrew Moore, the clerk of
the Harrison circuit court, who brought the letter of attorney
into this. court, under process for that purpose, desiring to return, and considering it his duty to retain possession of that
instrument, by consent of plaintiff' and defendants, departed
with it, leaving a copy. And at a subsequent day MosesL.
Miller was introduced as a witness to prove the letter of attorney; who stated, that being summoned as a witness, he met
with the clerk of Harrison aforesaid, in Georgetown, who
showed him an -instrument, the signature of which he examined, and believed it to be the handwriting of Sames B.
Clarke (the plaintiff's lessor), with whose handwriting he was
well acquainted: and another witness was examined, tending to
show that the instrument, so shown by said Moore to Miller,
was the same previously read before this court, as aforesaid.
When Andrew Moore (the clerk of Harrisbn court) was
about to resume possession of the letter of attorney and to depart, the attorney of the plaintiff declared that he had no objection. It is not pretended that any expectation of offering
further proof was entertained, or intimated to the parties. To
the admission of the testimony of 'Miller the plaintiff objected,
especially in the absence of the letter of attorney. But the
court overruled the objection, and submitted the testimony to
the jury, as tending to prove that instrument."
The letter of attorney purports to be made by "cJames B.
Clarke" of the city of New York, and Eleanor his wife," to
"Carey L. Olairke of the city-of New York;" to be dated
on. the 7th of October 1796, and to be sealed and delivered in
the presence of three witnesses.

SUPREME COURT..
[D1essee of Clarke etel. vs. Courtney et al.]

The question is, whether, under these, circumstances, it buglt
to have been admitted in evidence.
- In the ordinary coutse of legal proceedings, instruments
under seal, purporting to be executed in the presence of a
witness, -must be proved by the testimony of the subscribing
witness, or his absence 'sufficiently accounted for. Where he.
is dead, or cannot be found, or is without the jurisdiction, or
is otherwise, incapable of being produced, the next best decondary evidence is the proof of his handwriting; and that,
'when proved, affords prima facie evidence of a due execution
of the instrument, for it is presumed that he would not have
subscribed his -name to a false attestation. If upon due search
and inquiry no one can be found who can prove his-handwriting, there is no doubt that resort may then be had to
proof of the handwriting of the party who executed the instrument; indeed such proof may always be produced as corroborative evidence of its due and valid execution, though it is
,not, except uinder the limitations above suggested, primary
.evidence. Whatever may. have been the origin of this rule,
and in whatever reasons it may have been founded, it has
been too long established to be disregarded; or to justify an
inquiry into its original--correctness'
The rule was not complied with, in the case' at bar. The
original instrument was not produced at the trial, nor the subscribing witnesses; and their non-production was -iot accounted for. The instrument purports to be an ancient one; but
oo evidence was- offered in this stage of t6e cause to connect it with possession under it, so as to justify its 'admission
as an ancient deed, without furiher proof; It is said that the
conduct of the parties amounted to a waiver of the due proof
of the original. ' We are of opinion that the production of the
original was under the circumstances dispensed with by the
parties, and that a: copy of it was impliedly a sented to as a
substitute. for the original.But'we do not think that the implication, go-es- farther, and
dlispenses with the ordinary proof oI'. the due- execution of
the original, in the same manner as if the original were present. It would be going very far to draw such a conclusion,
from circumstances of- so'equivoeal a nature, The°ruhe's of
evidence are too important securities for the titles to property

JANUARY TERM 1831.
vs. Courtney et al.]
(Lessee of Clarke et al.

to allow such loose presumptions to prevail. It would be"
opening a door to great praetical'inconvenience; and if a waiver of the ordinary-proof is intended, itis easily reduced to
writing.
It is also said, that the language of the exception that the
defendants gave testimony "conducing to prove" the instruments, may well be interpreted bythe court to have included all
the usual preliminary proofs. We do *not think so: to juis-

tify the admission of the lowest kind of secondary proof, it
should clearly appear, that all the preliminary steps have been
taken and established. The court can ptesume noihing; there
may not have been any preliminary proof 'whatsoever of the
absence, death, or .incapacity of the witnesses: and yet there
'may have been some evidence "cond u cing to prove" the due
,execution of the instruments. And the very circumstance
stated in the bill of exception, that Miller was -introduced,
"as a witness to prove: the letter of attorney," repels the
presumption that any antecedent proof had heen given, which
in pdirit of law dispensed with the ordinary proofs.
We think, then, that the testimony ought not to have. been
admitted, and that this exception is well founded.
,The plaintiff having then given prima facie evidence of
title under a patent to Martin -Pickett of fifty-five thousand
three hundred and ninety acres, and that the defendants were
-in possession of the ladd in controversy, and- that the lessor of
the plaintiff (Clarke) at the date of his deed and ever since
was, and had been a citizen and resident of the state of New
York, and having relied solely on the demise from Clarke,
the defendants offered in evidence certair exhibits. One of
these purported to be 'a release of forty-nine thousand nine
hundred and fifty-two acres, by CareyL. Clarke, as attorney for
Jimes B. Clarke and John Bryant, on the.25th of November
1800o, acknowledged before the surveyor of Scott county, and
afterwards lodged with the auditor of public accounts. It recited that James 13. Clarke and. Eleanor his wife, and John
Bryant and Mary his wife, fiad appointed Carey L. Clarke
their attorney to sell, transfer and convey a certain tract on
the waters of Eagle Creek, in the county of Scott and state of
Kentucky, containing one hundred thousand one hundred and
ninety-two acres, entered in the name of Martin., Pickett,
VTOL. V -2-T

SUPREME COURT.
vs. Courtney et al.]
[Lessee of Clarke et al.

which tract of land was then held by Clarke and Bryant a
tenants in common. It then proceeded to state "now, therefore, I the said Carey L. Clarke, attorney as aforesaid, in pursuance of an act of the legislature of the state of Kentucky,
authorizing claimants of land within its commonwealth to relinquish by themselves or their attorneys, any part or parts of
their claims to the commonwealth, do hereby relinquish to
the commonwealth of Kentucky, all the right, title, interest,
property, claim and demand of the said Clarke and Bryant of,
in and to the hereinafter described tracts of land." Another
exhibit purported to be a release dated on the 25th of November 1801, by Carey L. Clarke as attorney in fact of John
Bryant in a similar form and containing a similar relinquishment to the state of certain tradts of land, except that the attestation clause was in these words: "in witness whereof
the'said Bryant by Carey L. Clarke, his attorney, hath set his
hand and seal this 25th of November 1801. John Bryant, by
Carey L. Clarke his attorney, [L. s.]"
The other exhibits
need not be particularly mentioned.
To prove these instruments of relinquishment, or properly
speaking, that of James B. Clarke and wife, the defendants
relied upon the power of attorney mentioned in the former
bill.of exceptions, and the original relinquishment from the
auditor's oflice; and proved the execution thereof b the surveyor pf Scott county..
The plaintiff then moved the court to instruct the jury that
the instrument [of relinquishment] under the proof, did not
bind the 'plaintiff and could not bar his recovery. But the
court overruled the motion, and instructed the jury that the
-aid relinquishment for the forty-nine thousand nine hundred
Sfifty-two acres, if the execution'thereof was satisfactorily
p oved, was a bar to the recoverye of all the land described in
said relinquishment; and on motion of the defendants the court
instrieted the jury, that if they believed the execution of the
poweriof attorney from James B. Clarke to Carey L. Oldrke,
and 6f the relinquishment in evidence [from Carey L. Clhrke
as hig attorney of the date of 25th of November 1800], then
it was- incumbent, on the plaintiff, to maintain this act!oni to
show thdt the defendants, or some of them, were at the strice
of the ejeetment outside of the several parts relinilgishodc to

JANUARY TERM 183t..
[Lessee of Clarke et a]. vs. Courtney et al.]

the state, The opinions thus given and refused constitutethe
second bill of exceptions.
Various objections have been taken in the argument-at the
bar upon the matter of these exceptions. It is said that the
relinquishment to.'the state, which was authorized by the'act
of 4th of December 1794, Littell's Laws of Kentucky-222,
has not been made in such'a manner as to become effectual-in
point of law; for there has been no entry of th6 relinquishment in a book in the surveyor's ofice of the county, as prescribed in the statute, nor has the power of attorney been
there recorded; and 'the state cannot t4e hut by matter of record.- Upon this objection it is not, in our viewof the case,
necessary to giye any opinion.
It is said, in the next place, that the relinquishment purports to have been made in virtue of a power of attorney recited in the instrument itself to be from James B. Clarke and
his, wife, and John Bryant and his wife; whereas the power
produced. purports to be from Clarke and his wife only, and
therefore the latter power does not authorize- the relin'quishment, or, in other -words, it was not that under which it was
made. There. is great .force in this objection; but on-this
also we do not-decide.
Another objection is that the power of ittorney produced,
even if duly executed, does not justify the relinquishment.
It purports to authorize Carey L. Clarke. "to sell, dispose of,
contract and- bargain for'all or.so much of said tract of land,
&c., and'to such.person, or persons, and at such time or'timies
our or one of our names to enter
as he shall think proper, and in"
info; acknowledge and execute all such deeds, contracts and'bargains for the sale bf the same, as he shall think proper; providedt always that all-deeds for the land are to be without covenants of warranty, or coven nts warranting the.title to the land
from the patentee) and his assigns," &c.
The'language here used is precisely that which would be
used in cases of intended sales or contracts of sale of the
land- fora valuable consideration to third persons, in the ordinary course of business. In the 'strict sense of the term, a relinquishment of the lands to the state under the act of 1794
is not a sale.. That act,. after reciting that it is'represented
to the general assembly that many persons hold tracts of land

SUPREME COURT.
[Lessee of Clarke et a]. vs. Courtney et al.]

'subject to taxation, and are desirous of -continuing their interest in only- port thereof, and that others have 'claims to
lands which they wish to relinquish without their being subjbct to the expehse of law suits; proceeds to enact, that iLshall
be lawful for any person or persons, his heir or their agent or,
"attorney, lawfully authorized so to do, to relinquish or disclaim
his, her, or their title, 'interest or claim to and in any tract or
part of a tract, of' land that he, she or they may think proper;
by making an entry of the tract or -that part thereof so disclaimed with the surveyor of the county in which the land or
the greater part thereof shall lie, in. a book to be kept for that
purpbse, which-said entry shalldescribe the situation and boundary of the land disclaimed with certainty, and be signed by the
party in the presence of the surveyor, who shall attest the same;
and that by virtue of the aforesaid entry and disclaimer, all the
interest of the party ih the said tract shall be vested in the commonwealth, and shall never be reclaimed by the'party, or his,
her, or-their representatives. The: object of the act is to authorize a relinquishmerit, either on account of the land being
subject to taxation, or to award law suits on account of conflicting claims.
It is not pretended-that the present relinquishment would
have been authorized by the letter of attorney on the latter
account. It is supposed at the bar to have been done on
account of the taxes due on the land, though that object is
not avowed on the face of the deed. There is, accordingly,
spread upon the record a-transcript of the taxes laid on the
land. By the laws of Kentucky (Act of 1799, s. 17, 2 Litt. L.
327), taxes c6nstitute a perpetual lien on the land. But such
taxes constitute no personal charge against non-residents. And
the-act of 1799 further provides, that Where any person has
paidi or shall on or before the first day of December then next,
the tax on any tract of land w41ch shall afterwards be lost or
relinquished, the person losing shall, upon application to the
auditor, receive an audited warrant to the amount paid by
hin, with a deduction of seven and P half per cent, which shall
be receivable in taxes as other audited warrants are.
The effect of the Kentucky laws, then, so far as non-resi-,
dents are concerned, is, that by their relinquishment they obtain no personal discharge from any personal charge; and fhat

-

JANUARY TERM 1831.

ILessce 6f Clarke et al.vs. Courtney et al.)

'the only effect ii that in the specified cases, if they bave'paid
the taxes, they are, with a small deduction, reimbused.
In point of fact, then, the relinquishment giveg therri nothing-as a compensaiion for the land; bui restores back again
only the money (if any). Which they have paid. Can such a.
relinquishment, for the purposes contemplated by the statute,
be in any just sense deemed-a sale? We think -not It is a
mere -abandonment of the title; or,,in The language of the a@.
a relinquishment or disclaimer. The letter of attorney manifestly contemplated the ordinary contracts oi bargain and sale
between private persons, for a valuable consideration; and conveyance by deed without covenants of warranty. The very
reference to covenants, shows that, the parties had in view. the
common course of conveyances, in which covenants of title
are usually inserted, and the clause excludes them. The
statute does not contemplate any deed or conveyance; buta
mere entry of relinquishment or disclaimer of record. This
entry constitutes a good title in the state. The-state doesnot
buy., nor does the party sell in such case. It seems'to, us that
the nature of such a relinquishment, am ounting; as it does, ta a
surrender of title without any valuable consideration, ought
not to be inferred from any words however general, much
less from words so appropriate to cases of "mere private sales
as those in the present letter of attorney. The question whether such a -relinquishment should be maxe or not, is so emphatically a matter of pure discretion in the owner, in the nature of a donation, that it ought not to be presumed to be
delegated to another without the most explicit words used for,
and appropriate to, such a purpose. We think that the words.
of the present letter of attorney are not sufficient to clothe, the
agent with such an authority.
But if this objection were not insuperable, there is another,
which, though apparently of a technical nature, is fatal to the
relinquishment. It is, that the deed is. not executed in the
namesot Clarke and his wife, but by the attorney, in his'own
name. It is not, then, the deed of the principals, but the deed
of the attorney. The language is, "I, the said Carey L.
Clarke, attorney qs aforesaid," &e. "do hereby relinquish,"
&c.; and the attesting clause is, "II n witness whereof the"said
Carey L. Clarke, attorney as aforesaid, hashereunto subscribed

SUPREME COURT.
[Lessee of Clarke et al. vs. Courtney et al.]

his hand and seal, this 25th day of'November, inthe -yearof
our Lord 1800. Carey L. Clarke. [L. S.]"
The act does not therefore purport to be the act of the priticipals, but of the attorney. It is his deed, and his seal, and
not theirs. This may savour of refinement, since it is apparent that the party intended to pass the interest and title of hii
principals. But the law looks not to the intent alone, but to
the fact whether that intent has been exectdted in such a
manner as to possess a legal validity.
The leading case on thi subject is Coombe's case, 9 Co. R.
75, where authority was given by a copy holder to two persons as his attorneys, to surrender ten acres of. pasture to the
use of J.N.; and afterwards, at a manor court they surren-"
dered the same, and the entry on the.court roll was, that the
said attorneys in the same court showed the writing aforesaid,
bearing date, &c. and they, by virtue of the authority to them
by the said letter of attorney given, in full court, surrendered
into the hands of the said lord the said ten, acres of~ pastur.e,
to the use of the said J. N. &c.; and the question was whether
thie surrender wasgood or not, and the court held it was good.
cAnd it was resolved, that when any has authority as attorney to do any act, lie ought to do itin his name who gives
the authority, for-he appoints the attorney to be in his place,
and to represent his person; and therefore the attorney cannotdo it in,
his own name, nor as his proper act, but in the name
and as the act of him wjao gives the authority. And where it
was objected that in the case at bar the attorneys have made
the surrender'in their owi name, for the entry is that they
surrendered, it was answered and resolved by.the whole court,
that they have well performed their authority; for, first, they
showed their letter of attorney, and.then they by the.authority
to them by the letter of attorney given, surrendered, &c.whicl
is as much as to say, as if they had said, we, as attorneys, &cP,-arender, &c.and both these ways are sufficient. As he who bas a
letter of attorney to deliver seisin saith, 1, as attorney to 3. S. deliver you seisin; or, 1, by force of this letter of attorney,-deliver you seisin: And all that is well done, and a good pursuance of his authority. But if attorneys have power by writing to make leases by indenture for years, &c. they cannot
make indentures in their own names, but in the name of hint
whq gives the warrant."

JANUARY TERM 1831.
tLessee of Clarke eta). us. Courtney et al.]

Such is the language of the report, and it has been quotecI
at large, because it has been much commented on at the bar;
and it points out a clear distinction between acts done in pais,
and.solemn instruments-or deeds, as to the mode of their execution by an attorney. It has been supposed that the doctrine
of Lord Holt in Parker vs. Kett, 1 Salk. 95, and better reported in 2 Mod. R. 466, intimated a different opinion. But
correctly considered it is not so. Lord Holt expressly admits
(468), that the doctrine in-Coombe's case, that he who acts
under another ought to act in his name, is good law beyond
dispute: and the case there was distinguishable; for it was the
case of a sub-deputy steward, appointed to receive a surrender, which was an act in pais. However this may be, it is
certain that Coombe's case has never been departed from, and
has often been acted upon as good law. In Frontin vs. Small,
2 Ld. Raym. 1418, where a lease was made between M. F.
"cattorney of T. F." of the one part, and the defendant of the
other part, of certain premises for seven years, in a suit for
rent by M. F., it was held that the lease was void for the very
reason assigned in Coombe's case. Lord chief baron Gilbert
(4 Bac. Abridg. Leases and Terms for years, I. 10, 140),. has
expounded the reaons of the doctrine with great .clearness
and force; and it was fully recognized in White vs. Cuyler,
6 T. Rep. 176, and Wilks vs. Back, 2 East. 142. If it were
-necessary it might easily be traced back to aq earlier period.
than Coombe's case. 4 Bac. Abridg. Leases and Terms for
years, I. 10, 140, 141. Com. Dig. Attorney, C. 14. Moore,
70. In America, it has been repeatedly the subject of adjudication, and has received a judicial sanction. The cases Qf -Bogart vs. De Bussy, 6 Johns. R. 94; Fowler vs. Shearer, 7Mass,
R. 14; and ElwelI vs. Shaw, 16 Mass. R. 425 are -directly in
point.
It appears to us, then, upon the grounds of these authoritie. ,
that the deed of relinquishment to the state was inoperative;
and consequently-the court erred in refusing the instruction
prayed by-the plaintiff, that it did not bind him; and" in directing the jury, that if the execution of it was proved, it was
a bar to the recovery of the land described therein.
This aspect of the case renders it unnecessary to decide
whether, supposing the relinquishment good, it was-incumbent

SUPREME COURT.
ELessee of Clarke et a].
vs. Courtney et al.]

on the plaintiff to'show that'the possession of the defendants, or
some of them, was- at the time of the service, of the ejectment
outside of the land relinquished. That point was before us
in j-awkins vs.Barney's Lessee, at this terini; and it was there
decided that vhere the plaintiff's title deed, as exhibited by
himself, contains an exception, and shows that he has conveyed a part of the tract of land to a third person, and it is
uncertain whether the. defendants are in possession of the land
not conveyed, the onus probandi is on the plaintiff. -Iere the
deed of relinquishment ig exhibited on the part of the defendants to dispute the plaintiffs' title to the land possessed by them;
and it has been contended that,this creates a distinction, and
throws the burthen of proof on the defendants to show that
the plaintiff has parted with his title, to the particular land in
contrbversy. The case, however, does not call for any abso-lute decision on this point; nor does it appear with certainty
from the evidence, lhat' the relinquished land was within the
boundaries of the land in controversy in the suit.
The third bill of exception' states, that on the trial of -the
cause, the plaintiff having. given in evidence the patent to
Pickett, and by mesne conveyances to Clarke the lessor
of~the plaintiff, and proved that Clarke at the date thereof and
ever since was resident in the state of-New York, and that the
title deeds embrace the land in controversy, and that the defendants were all in possession at the commencement of the
suit, after thA defendants had given in evidence the deed
of relinquishment, and the court had given the instructions thereon; gave testimony conducing to prove th't some
of-the defendants, viz. Hinton, Hughes, Vance, Gillum, Antle,
Sally, Courtney, &c. were not within-the limits set forth in
the relinquishment. and these defendants all relying in their
defence upon their possession, they gave in evidence a patent
to James Gibson, 1st of Maich 1793, under a survey of 1783,
and a patent to Sterrett and Grant 24th'of October 1799 under a survey in 1792 (reciting them), and gave testimony conducing to prove that Sally, Courtney, &c. were within the
boundaries prescribed by the patent of Grant and Sterrettf;
and Hinton, Hughes, Gillum,'Vance and Antle, were within
'the bounds of the patent to Gibson: and touching the possession within Gibson's patent, the -witness stated that in 1796,

JANUARY TERM 1831.
ELessee of Clarke et a]. vs. Courtney et a]

Hinton entered within the patent of Gibson, claiming a
part of the tract under that grant, and that the tenement has
been occupied ever since; and at subsequent periods the other
tenants claiming under the said Hinton, had settled in the
same manner under other parcels, claimed by them as parts
of Hinton's purchase; and from the time of their respective
settlements, their possession had been continued
The witness knew not the extent or boundary of any of the purchases,
and no title papers were produced.
And touching the possession within tbe patent to Sterrett
and Grant, the witness stated that in 1791 or 1792, Griffin
Taylor entered under that patent, that the tenements hive been
still occupied by Taylor and his alienees; and at periods subsequent, the other tenants had entered and. taken possession,
claiming under the said Taylor, within the limits of the patent
to Sterrett and Grant. No written evidences of purchase
were offered.
Thereupon the plaintiff moved the court to instruct the
jury: 1. That the possession of these defendants, was no bar to
the defendants' action: 2. That the statute'of limitation could
only protect the defendants to the extent, that they had actually enclosed their respective tenements, and had occupied for
twenty years preceding the commencement of the. suit. The
court overruled the motion, and instructed the jury that adverse possession was a question of fact; that under the adverse
patents given in evidence, it was not necessary to show a
paper title derived under those 'adverse grants, to make out
adverse possession; but such hostile possession might be proved
by parol. That an entry under one of the junior grants
given in evidence by the defendants, and within the boundaries of the elder grant, without any specific metes and bounds,
other than the abuttals of the grant itself, did constitutean adverse possession, to the whole extent of the abuttals and
boundaries under which such entry was made. To this refusal and opinion the plaintiff excepted; and the question now
is, whether the court erred in either respect.
In considering the points growing out of.this exception, it
may be proper to advert to the doctrine which has been already established in respect to the nature and extent of the
rights, growing out of adverse possession. Whether an entry
VOL. V.-2 T1

SUPREME COURT.
[Lessee of Clarke et a]. ts. Courtney et W.]

upon land, to w.ch the party has no title and elaigs no title,
be a mere naked trespass, or began ouster or disseisin of the
true.owner, previously in possession of thb land; is a matter
of fact depending upon the nature of the acts done, and te.
intent of the party so entering. • The law will not presume an
ouster without some proof; and though a mere trespasser cannot qualify his own wrong; and the owner may, for the sake
of the remedy, elect to consider himself disseised; yet the latter is not bound to consider a mere act of trespass to be a disseisin. If a mere trespasser, without any claim Or pretence
.of title enters into land, and holds the same adversely to the
title of the true owner, it is an ouster or disseisin of the latter. But in such case the possession of the trespasser is bounded -by his actual occupancy; and coniequently the true
owner is not disseised except as to the portion so occupied.
But where a person enters into land undera deed or title, his
possession is construed to be co-extensive with. his deed or
title; and although the deed or title may turn out to be defective, or void, yet the true owner will be deemed disseised to
the extent of the boundaries of such deed or title. This, however, is subject to some qualification. For, if the true owner
be at the same time in possession of a part of the land, claiming title to'the whole; then his seisin extends by construction
6f law to all the land which is not in the actual possession
and occupancy, by enclosure or otherwise, of the party so
claiming under a defective deed or title.
The reason is plain; both parties cannot be seised at the same
-time of the same land under different titles, and the law therefore adjudgesthe seisin of all, which is not in the actual occupancy of the-adverse party, *tohim who has the better title. This
doctrine has been on several occasions recognized in this court.
In Green vs. Liter, 8 Cranch, 229, 230, S. C. 3 Peters's Cond.
Rep. 97, 107,.the court said; the general rule is, that if a man
enters into lands, having title, his seisin is not bounded by his
occupancy, but is held to be co-extensive with his title. But
if a man enters without.title, his seisin is confined to his possession by metes and bounds. Therefore the court said that
,as between two patentees in possession claiming the same land
under adverse titles, he who had the better legal title was
to be deemed in seisin of all the land not included in the actual
close of the other patentee.. The same doctrine was held in

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[Lessee of Clarke et al. ws.Coutey et al.]

Barr vs Gratz, 4 Wheat. R ep. 213,223; where the court said,
that where two persons are in possession of land at the same
time under different titles, the law adjudges him to have the seisin of the estate who has the better title. Both cannot be seised, and therefbre the seisin follows the title. And that where
there was an entry without title, the disseisin is -limited to the
actual occupancy of the party disseising; and in reference to
the facts of that case, the court held that in a conflict of title
and possession, the constructive actual seisin of all the land
not in the actual adverse possession and occupancy of the
other, was in the party.having the better title.
In the society for propagating the Gospel vs. The Town of
Pawlet, 4 Peters's Rep.. 480, 504, 506, which came before the
court upon a division of opinion upon a state of facts agreed;
the court held, that where a party entered as a mere trespasser
without title, no ouster could be ptesumed in favour of such a
naked possession; but that where a party entered under a title adverse to the plaintiffs, it was an ouster of, or adverse
possession to the true owner.
It appears to us also that the doctrines, thus recognized by
this court, are in harmony with those established by the authority of other courts; and especially of the courts of Kentucky, in the cases cited at the bar.' Johnson's Digest, Ejectment V, b. Big.'s Dig. Seisin ,and Disseisin in A, B, C, D.
It remains to apply these questions to the present exception.
The court was called upon in the first instruction to declare that
the possession of the defendants was no bar to the action. This
obviously required the court to give an opinion upon matters
of evidence proper for the consideration of the jury, and which
might be fairly open to controversy before them. It was
therefore properly denied. The second instruction required
the court to declare that the statute of limitations could only
protect the defendants to the extent that [they] had actuilly
enclosed their respective tenements, and occupied for. twenty
years preceding the commencement of the suit. The difficulty
upon this instruction is, that no evidence was adduced; or, if
adduced, it was not competent for the court to decide upon it,
that either Pickett, the patentee, or the lessor of the plaintiff,
at 'the time of the entry and ouster by the defendants, had any
actual seisim or possession of any part of the land included irf

SUPREME COURT.
[Lessee of Clarke et al. vs. Courtney et al.]

the, patent; so as to limit their possession to the bounds of their
actual enclosures or occupancy. The entry of the defendants
was certainly under a claim of title under the patents of Gibson, and Steirett, and Grant. If Pickett, or his grantees, were
then in possession under his patent, the defendants, upon the
principles already stated, would have been limited, as to their
adverse possession, to the bounds of their actual occupancy.
But that not being shown, the question resolves itself into this,
whether a party entering into land under a patent, but without showing a paper title to any particular portion of the land
included in that patent, is not to be deemed as claiming to the
abuttals of the patent, against adverse titles held' by other parties, not then in seisin or possession under their titles.
The opinion of the circuit court was (as the instruction given
shows), "that adverse possession was a question of fact;"
(which might be true, as applicable to the case before it, though
it is often a mixed question of law and of fact;) "that under
the adverse patents given in evidence, it was not necessary to
snow a paper title, under those adverse grant§;-o make out
-adverse possession, but that such hostile possessions might be
proved by arol" (which, as a g4nera proportion, is .certainly
true, as adverse possession may exist independent of title); and
what is the material part of the instruction "that an entry under one of the junior grants given in evidence by the defendants, and within the boundaries of the elder grant of Pickett,
made by one claiming under such< junior grant without any
specific metes and bounds, other than the abuttals of tMe
grant itself, did constitute an adverse possession to the
whole. extent of the abuttal and boundaries, under which the
entry was made." The prayer of the plaintiffs then was, or
might have been rejected; because it assumed the decision of
a question of fact; that is, that the de' .ndants entered without
any claimof title by metes and bounds: and the instruction
given was, that an entry under the junior grants by one claiming under them by no other abuttals than those of the grants,
was to. be deemed an entry and adverse possession, to the extent of those abuttals. -This decision is fully supported by the
cases in 2 Marsh. Kent. Rep. 18, and 1 Marsh. Kent. Rep. 376.
Looking, therefore, to the instruction in the qualified manner
in which it is given, and with reference to the fact that no

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[Lessee of Clarke et al. vs. Courtney et al.]

seisin was shown in Pickett, or the lessors of the-plaintiff, in
any part of the tract included in his patent, at the time of the
entry of the defendants; it seems to us, that, according to the
local decisions, the refusal was right, and the instruction given
was correct in point of law.
We think it proper to add, that no notice has been taken of
the fact that Clarke, the lessor of the plaintiff, was a non.-risident; because it does not appear that any of the instructions
were asked or given, in reference to the legal effort of his nonresidence.
The judgment- isitherefore, reversed for the errors stated
in the first add second bills of exceptions; and the cause remanded to the circuit court, with directions to award a venire
facias de novo.
Mr Justice BAxwIN dissented as to the possession.
This cause came on, &c. It is considered by the court here
that therewas error in the circuit court in admitting the testimony of Moses L. Miller under the circumstances set forth in the
first bill of excelitions. And that there was error in the circuit court in refusingto instrbct the jury upon the motion of the
plaintiff, that the instrument stated in the second bill of exceptions, under the proof, did not bind the plaintiff, and could
not bar his recovery; and in instructing the jury that the relinquishment stated in the same bill 6f exceptions for 49,952 acres,
if the execution thereof was satisfactorily proved, was a bar to
the recovery of allthe land described in said relinquishment, as
set forth in the same bill of exceptions. But there is no error
in the court in refusing to instruct the jury on the motion of the
plaintiff, that the possession of the defendants was no bar to
the plaintiff's action; and that the statute of limitations could
only protect the defendants to the extent that (they) had actually enclosed their respective tenements, and occupied for
twenty years preceding the commencement of the suit, as set
forth in the third bill of exceptions; and that there was no error in the court in giving the instruction to the jury, set forth
in the same bill of exceptions, in the manner and under the
circumstances therein set forth. And, &c.

