SUPREME COURT.

TAE

STATI Or NzEw JERsEy, COMArINANT Vs.
OF THE STATE Or N w YORK-

Tm

PEOPLE

Congress has passed no act kor the special purpose of prescribing tha mode ot
proceeding in suits instituted against a state, or in any suitin which the sapreme
court is to exercise tue originaljurisdictionconferred by the constitution.
It has been settled, on grest deliberation, that this court may exercise its-original
jorisdiction in suits against a'state, under the authority eqnfrred by the con-stitution, and existing acts of congress. The rule respecting the process, the
,persons on whom, it is to be served, and the time of -service, is fixed. The
cQurse of the court after due service of process has also been prescribed.
In a suit in.this court instituted by a state against another state ofte union, the
-servi'a of the process of the court on the governor and attorney.generat of the
state, sixty days before'the return day of the process, is a sufficient service.
At a very early period in our judicial history suits were instituted in this court
akminst states, and the questions concerning its jurisdiction and mode of proceeding were necessarily considered.
After,due service of the subpcana, the state which is complainant has a right to
proceed, ex parte; and if after the service of an'order of the court for the
hearing of the case, there shall not be an appearance, the court will proceed
to a hnal healing.
No final decee or judgment having-been given in this court against a state, the
question of procteding to a final decree' is not conclusively settled in this case,
until the cause shall cone on to be heard in chief.
The cases of the State of Georgia vs. Brailsford; Oswald vs. The Statdof 'Now
York; Chishblmls Executors vs. The State of Georgia; The State of New York
os. The State ofConnecucut; Grayson Vi;Fhe Cohunonwealth of.VirginiA; cited
as to the iurisdiction and modes ot'proceediug in suitsin which a state is a party.

MR Wirt, for the complainamt, stated, that the subpcena
had been regularly served upwards of two months, and there
was no appearance on the part of the state of New" York.
The se enteenth section of the judiciary act of 1789, authorizes the court to make and establish all necessay rules for
the conducting thebusiness of the courts of the United States.
This court'has s ch a powdr without the aid of that provision
of the law.
The seventh rule of this court, which was' applicable to this
matter , was made it Augtst term 1791. " The chief justice,'
jn,answer to' the motion of the atorney general, informs him
and'the bar, that this court considei the practice of the court
of king's bench and of'0ihancery, in'England, as affording. outlines for 'the practice of this court; and that they will from

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[State of New Jersey vs. The State Qf New York.]

time'to time make such alterations therein, as eircumstanoes
may render necessary. 1 Cond. Rep. viii.
In 1796 the tenth rule was adoptcd. " Ordered, that process
of subpona issuing out of this court in any suit in equity, shall
be served ourthe defendant sixty days before the return day of
the said process; and further, that if the defendant on such service of the subpoena should not appear. at the return any contained therein, the complainant shall be at liberty to proceed
lbid.
ex.porte."
Construing these two rules together, they bring us in the
case before the court, to that part of the English practice where
the party may proceed -to a hearing. There is no, necessity
for those proceedings here, which are resorted to in England
to compel an appearance.
Nor would the practice in England be proper in the case
before the court. The object of the bill is to quiet a title: it is a
bill of peace. . Here the rule considers the party, when served
with procdss, in the same situation as if he had appeared.
The question is what is to be -done when all the process to
compel an appearance is exhausted: what is the next step?
It is to take the bill, pro confesso: but in England, formerly,
by a standing rule in chancery, before this can be done the
party must have appeared.
Afterwards, to prevent the process of the court being eluded,
the statute of 25 George II was enacted, by which it was provided, that if no appearance was entered by one who had absconded, the court would make an order for an appearancei and
if no appearance was entered, the bill should be taken pro confeSO.
This satute regulated the practice-in the courts of cbancery
of England in 1791, when the seventh rule of this court was
adopted. But this statute applied only to the case of.aparty
alsconding, and it was only to force an appearance. In the
-present case, as has been observed, we stand as if all the pro-,
ceedings -for such a purpose had been exhausted.
Different practices prevail'in relation to such a case in, the
several states of the union. In New Jersey -the practice is to
file the proof&in the -cause, and proceed to a hearing. This ip
not the course which is pursued in Virginia. As to the practice in England; cited 2 Pr. NVm. 556. Moseley, 386- Hat.

SUPREME COURT.
[State ofNew Jersey vs. The. State of New York.]

Chancery Practice, by- Newland, 156. 1 Grant's Chancery
Practice, .96.
Something is now to be done in this case: 'and it is for the
,Court to determine what that may be. If the court desire it,
'it is fully competent tb them to make any new rule -relative to
the future proceedings in the case.
In the court of chancery in England the party could take a
decree, pro confesso, and coniiderit as'finial. 'But this is not
the wish of .the complainant. It is desired, that the pioceedings should'be carried on with the utmost respect to the other
party; and. the wish of the state of New Jersey is to have an
examination of the case, and a final decree after such an ex- °
amination.
It is therefore proposed thaE the court direct a rule to be
entered that the bilf be tAken pro confesse, unless the party
against whom it is filed appear dnd answer before the rules
day in August next; and if they do not, that the cause be~get
down for a final hearing at-, thd next termi of thisa~out, on
such proofs as the complainants' may-exhibit.
might be proper to
Mr Justice Baldwin suggested that if'
argue certain questions arising in this case -in open court:such as, what was the proper duty of the court inthe case?
What was the' practice in England?. And whether this court
had power to proceed in suits between states without, an act of
He did
congress having directed the mode of proceeding
not propose this as'a matter personal t6 himself; but as .a member of the court.
Mrr Wirt said -that the jurisdiction which was to be exercised w~as given bj ,the consfitution, ahd the seventeiith section of the act of congress authorised the court to e~tablish such
ruleg as\to themanner itt which the power should be executed.
There are cases in which the court have taken this jurisdiction. The case of-Chisholm vs, The State of Georgia, - Dall.
Rep. 219; 2 Condens. Rep. 635. Grayson vs. The State of
Virginia, 3 Dali. Rep. 320; 1 Condens, R p. 141,
When the'subpo~na was asked for at last term of this court,
daof Chisholm vs. Th6 State of Georgia
*(3Peters, 46-1) the
was-then particularly referred to: and it was considered that al-

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[State of New Jersey vs. The State of New York.]

though the amendment, to the constitution has taken away the
jurisdiction of this court in suits brought byindividuals against
a state, it has left it jurisdiction in suits between states, in the
situation in which it stood originally. The court, in awarding
the process of subpoena, had reference to these cases.
If an elaborate argument of the questions which thb case
presents is desired, time is asked to prepare for it; arid sufficient time to give notice to the attorney general of the state
of New Jersey to attend and assist in the argument.
Mr*Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is a bill filed by. the" state of New Jersey against the
state of New York, for the purpose of ascertaining and settling
the boundary between the two states.
The constitution of the United States declares that "the Judicial power shall extend to controversies between two or
more states." It also declares that "i' n all cases affecting
ambassadors, other public ministers and consuls, and those
in which a state shall be a party, the supreme court shall have
original jpirisdiction."
Congress has passed no act for the special purpose of pre-,
scribing the mode of proceeding in suits instituted against a
state, or in any suit in which the supreme court is to exercise
the original jurisdiction conlerred by the constitution,
The act to establish the judicial courts of the United Statep,
section thirteen, enacts "that the supreme court shall have
exclusive jurisdiction of all controversies of a civil nature
where a state is a party, except between a state and its citizens; and except also between a state and citizens of other
states or aliens; in which" latter case it shall have original but
not exclusive jurisdiction." It also enicts, section fourteen,
"that all the before mentioned courts of the United States
shall have power to issue writs of scire facias, habeas corpus,
and all other writs ndt specially provided by statute, which
may be necessary for the exercise of their respective jurisdictions, and agreeable to the principles and usages of law." Bf'
the sevonteenth section it is enacted, "that all the said courts
of the United States shall have power" "to make and establish
all necessary rules for the ordinary conducting business in-the

SUPREME COURT.
[State of New lersey vs, The State of New York.j

said courts, provided such rules are not repugnant to the laws
of the United States."
"An act to regulate. processes in the courts of the United
States" was passed at the same session with the judicial act,
and was depending before congress at the same time. It en,acts "all writs and processes issuing from a supreme or a cireuit court shall bear teste," &c. This act was rendered perpetual in 1792. The first section of the act of 1792 repeats
the provision respecting writs and processes, issuing from the
supreme or a circuit courL The second continues the form
of writs, &c.and the forms and modes- of proceeding in suits
at common law prdscribed in the original acts, and in, those
of equity, and in those of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction,
according- to the principles, rules and -usages which belong to
courts of equity and to courts of admiralty respectively, as contradistinguished from courts of common'law; except so far as
may have been provided for by the act to establish the judi"cial courts of the United States: subject however to, such
alterations and additions as the said courts respectively shall
in their discretion deem expedient, or to such regulations as
the supreme court of the UnitedStates shall think proper, from
time to time, by rule, to prescribe to any circuit or district
court concerning the same."
At a very early period in our judicial history, suits were
instituted in this court against states; and the questins concerning its jurisdiction and mode of proceeding were necessarily considered.
So early as August 1792, arn injunction was awarded at the
prayer of the state of Georgia, to stay a sum of money recovered by Brailsford, a British subject, which was claimed
by Georgia under her acts of confiscation. This was an exercise of the original jurisdiction of the court, and no doubt of
its propriety was ever expressed.
In February 1793, the case of Oswald vs. The State of New
York came on. This was a suit at common law. The state
not appearing on the return of the process, proclamation was
made; and the following order entered by the court. " Unless
the state appear by the first day of the next. term, or show
cause to the contrary, judgment will be entered by default
against the said state."

JANUARY TERM 1831.
EState of NewJersey vs. The State of New York.]
At the same term, the case of Chisholm's Executors vs. The
State of Georgia, came on and was argued for the plaintiffs by
the then attorney general, Mr Randolph. The judges delivered their opinions seriatim; and those opinions bear ample
testimony to the profound consideration they had bestowed on
every question arising in the case. Mr Chief Justice Jay, Mr
Justice Cushing, Mr Justice Wilson, and Mr Justice Blair decided in favour of the jurisdiction of the court; and that the process served on the governor and attorney general of the state
was sufficient. Mr Justice Iredell thought an act of congress
necessary to enable the court to exercise its jurisdiction.
After directing the declaration to be filed and copies of it to
be served on the governor and attorney general of the state of
Georgia, the court ordered, "that unless the said state shall
either in due form appear, or show *cause to the contrary in
this court, by the 1st day of.the next term, judgment by default shall be entered against the said state."
In February term 1794, judgment was rendered for the
plaintiff, and a writ, of inquiry was awarded, but the eleventh
amendment to the constitution prevented its execution.
Graysbn vs. The State of Virginia, 3 Dal. 320, 1 Peters's
Cond. Rep. 141, was a bill in equity. The subpoena having
been returned executed; the plaintiff moved for.a distringas
to compel fhe appearance of the state. The court postponed
its decision on the motion, in consequence of a doubt whetherthe remedy to compel the appearance of the state should be
furnished by the court itself, or by the legislature. At a subsequent term, the court, " after a particular examination of
its power," determined that though "the general rule prescribed the adoption of that practice which is-founded on' the
custom and usage of courts of admiralty and equity," "still it
was thought that we are also authorized to make such deviations as are ncessary to adapt the process and rules of the court
to the peculiar circumstances of this country, subject to the interposition, alteration, and control of the legislature. We
have therefore agreed to make the foilowing general orders.
",1. Ordered, that when process at common law or in equity
shall, issue against a state, the same shall be served upon the
governor or chief- executive magistrate, and the attorney general of such state.
VOL. V-2 M

290

SUPREME COURT.
[State of New Jersey vs. The State of New York.]

Ordered, that process of subpcena issuing out of this
court in any suit in equity, shall be served on the defendant
sixty days before the return day of the said. process; and farther, that if the defendant, on such service of the subpCena,
shall not appear at the return day contained therein, the complainant shall be -t liberty to proceed e parte.'" 3 Dall. 320;
1 Peters's Cond. Rep. 141.
In Huger et al. -vs.The State of South Carolina, the ser-vice of the subpcena having -been proved, the court deternined that the complainant was at liberty to proceed ex
porte. He accordingly moved for and obtained commissions
tortake the examination of witnesses in several of the states.
3 Dall. Rep. 371; 1 Peters's Cond. Rep. 156.
Fowler et al. v8.Lindsey etal. and Fowler v&. Miller, 3 Dal].
411; 1 Peters's Cond, Rep. 189, were ejectments depending in
the circuit court for the district of Connecticut, for lands over
which both New York and Connecticut claimed jurisdiction.
A rule to show cause why these suits should not be removed
into the supreme court by certiorariwas discharged, because
a state was neither nominally nor substantially a party. .No
doubt was enteitained of the propriety of exercising original
jurisdiction, had a state been a party on the record.
In consequence of the rejection of this motion for a certiorari, the state of New York, in August term 1799, filed a bill
against the state of Connecticut, 4 Dall. 1, 1 Peters's Cond. Rep.
203, which contained an historical account of the title of New
York to the soil and jurisdiction of the tract-of land in dispute;
set forth an agreement of the. 28th of November 1783, between the two states on the subject; and prayed a discovery,
relief and injunction to stay the proceedings in the ejectmelitsdepending in the circuit court of Connecticut. The injunction was, on argument,*refused; because the state of .New
York was not a party to the ejectruentp, nor interested in their
decision.
It has then been settled by our predecessors,
on great deliberation, that this,court may exercise its original jurisdictionin suits against a state, under the -authority conferred by the
constitution and existing acts of-congress. The rulerespecting
the process, the persons on whom it is'to be served, and the
time of service are fixed. The course df the court on the failure
'r2.

JANTIARY TERM 1831.
[State of New Jersey vi. The State of New York.]

of the state to appear, after the due service of propess, has'been
also prescribed.
In this case the subpoena has been served as is required by
the rule. The complainant according to the practice of the
court, and according to the general order made in the case of
Grayson vs. The, Commonwealth of Virginia, has a right to
proceed ex parte: and the court will make ani order to-that
effect, that the cause may be prepared for a final hearing. If
upon being served with a copy of sucn order, the defendant
shall still fail to appear or to show cause to the contraryi this
court will, as soon thereafter as the cause shall be prepared by
the complainant, proceed to a final hearing and decision thereof.
But inasmuch as no final decree has been pronounced or judgment rendered in any suit heretofore instituted in this court
against a state; the question of proceeding to a final decree wil
be considered as not conclusively settled, until the cause shall
come on to be heard in chief.
Mr. Justice- BALDWIN did not concur in the opinion of.the
court directing the order made in this cause.

The subpoena ii *thiscause having been. returned exeduted
sixty days before :the return day- thereof, and the defendant
having failed to appear, it is, on motion of the complainant,
decreed and ordered, that -the complainant be at liberty to
proceed ex parte: and it is further decreed and ordered, that
unless the defendant, being served with a copy of this decree
sixty days before the ensuing August term of this coUrt, shall
appear on the second day of the next January term thereof,
and answer the bill of the complainant, this court will proceed
to hear the cause on the part of the complainant, and to decfee
on the matter of the said bill.

