JANUARY TERM 1831.

WILLAx HUNTER, APPELLANT vs.

TnE

173

UNITED STATES,

APPELLEES.

In the original bill filed by the United States in the circuit court of Rhode
Island, the claim of the United States to payment of a debt due to them, was
asserted on the ground of an assignment made to the United States by an insolvent debtor, who was. discharged fron imprisonment, on the condition
that he should make such an assignment. The debtor had been previously
discharged under the insolvent law of Rhode Island, and had made, on such
discharge, a general assignment for the benefit of his creditors. Afterwards an
amended bill was filed; in which the claim of the United States was placed
upon the priority given to the United States by the act of congress against
their debtors-who have become insolvent. It was objected that the United
Staten could not change the ground of their claim, hut must rest it, as piesented by the original bill, on the special assignment made to them. By the
court: It is true, as the defendant insists, that the original bill still remains on
the record, and forms a part of the case. But the amendment presents a new
state of facts, which it was competent for the complainants to do: and on me
hearing they may rely on the whole ease made in the. bill; or may abandon
some of the special prayers it contains.
The same right of priority which belongs to the government, attaches to the

claim of an individual who, as surety, has paid money to the government.
The assignment under the insolvent law of Rhode Island could only take effect
from the time it was made. Until the court, in the exercise of their judgment,
determine that the applicant is entitled to the benefit of the law, and in pursuance of Its requisitions he assigns his property, the proceedings are inchoate,

and do not relieve the party. It Is the transfer which vests in the assignoe
the property of the insolvent for the benefit of his creditors.

If before the

judgment of the court the petitioner fail to prosecute his petition, or discontinue it, his property and person are liable to execution as though he had not
applied'for the benefit of the law. And, if after the judgment of the court he
fall to aisign hid property, it will be liable to be taken by his creditors on execution.
The .property placed on the inventory of an insolvent niay be protected ftrm execution while he prosecutes his petition; but this cannot exclude the claim of a
cred':or who obtains a judgment before the asslgnment.
The United States obtained a judgment against Smith, an insolvent debtor, pre-

vious to his assignment under the insolvent laws of Rhode Island. Under his
assignmerit a debt fornmoney paid by.him to the Upited States as surety on
duty bonds for the Crarys passed to his assignee. The Crarys had claims upon
Spain, which were afterwards paid under the Floiida treaty; and the assignee
of Smith received the amount of the said Spanish claim in satisfabtion of the
payments made fIr the duty bonds by Smith.. The judgment by the United

States against Smith having preceded the assignment, and the receipt and distribution of the money received from the Spanish claim under the insolvent
law; the government having an unquestionable right of priority on all the property of Smith , it extended to the ,laim of Smith on the Crarys. If the right oL

174

SUPREME COURT.

[Hunter vs. The United States.]
the United States to a-priority of payment covers any part of the property of all
Inislvent, it must. extend to the whole, until the lebt Is paid.
The claim of Snith on the Crarys was properly included in his asslgnment under
the insolvent laws, however remote the probability may have been at the time
of realizing the demand. It was an assignable interest. If at the time of the
assignment this claim was contingent, it is no longer so. It has been reduced
into possession, aTid is now in the hands of the representative of the debtor to
the general government. If under such circumstances the priority of the go.
verement doe's nor exist, it would be-difficult to present a-stronger case for the
operation of this prerogative.
By a special act of congress the -principal debtor was discharged from.imprison.
ment, and the expression is omitted in this act which is.used in the general
act passed Jone 6th, 1798, !' providing for the relief of persons imprisoned for
debts due to the United States." that " the judgment shall remain gopd and
sufficient" at law." In the special act it was declared thtt any.estate which
the debtor " may subsequently acquire shall be liable.to be taken, In the same
manner as if he had not been imprisoned and discharged." The special act
did.not release the judgment, and did not affect the rights of the United, States
against the surety.
That the same rules of contract are applicable where the sovereign is a party as
between individdals, is admitted; but the right of the sovereign to discharge the
debtor from imprisonment, without releaaig the debt, Is clear.
The act of government In releasing both the principal and surety from imprison.
ment was designed for the benefit of unfortunate debtors, and no unnecessary*
obstructions ihoidld be opposed to the exercise of so humane a policy. If the
discharge of the principal, under such circuntstances, should be-a release of the
debt against the surety, the consequence would be that the principal must re.
main in jail until the process of the law were exhausted against the.surety.
This would operate against the liberty of the citizen, and should be waved,
unless required to secure the public interest.
A discharge from prison, by operation of law, does not prevent the judgment cre.
ditor from prosecuting his judgment against the estat6 of the defendant.' To
this rule a discharge under the special provisions of the bankrupt law may form
an exception.
The secretary of the treasury was authorized to deduct from the sum payable to
a debtor to the United Sfates, the sum due to the United States, and he paid to
his assignee the whole sum which was awarded to him under the Florida treaty,
omitting to make the deduction of the debt due to the United States. *By the
court: it cannot be admittpd that an omission of duty of this kind, as a payment
by- mistake by an officer, shall bar thp claim of the government. If In violation
of his duty an officer shall knowingly or.even corruptly do an.act injurious to the
pullic, can it be considered obligatory? He can only bind the government by
acts which come within the just exercise of his'official powers.
W]iere a fund was in the hands of an essignee of an insolvent, out of whlchthe
United States asserted a right to a priority of payment, in such a case proceed.
inga at law might not be adequate, and it was proper to proceed in equity.

APPEAL from the circuit court for the district of Rhode

Island.

JANUARY' TERM 1831.
S[Hinter vs. The United States.]

The appellant, William Hunter, was the assignee of Archibald Crary and Frederick Crary, under'tbe insolvent law of
Rhode Island. The Crarys qbtained the benefit of that law
in June 1809. William Hunter was duly appointed one of
their assignees, and is now the sole surviving assignee. One
Jacob Smith had, as surety in a custom house bond, been
coripelled to pay to the United States for the Crarys, about
two thousand one hundred and twenty-five dollars. This payment was made in May 1808. Jacob Smith soon afterwards
became himself insolvent, viz. in October 1809; obtained the
benefit of the same insolvent law: and William Hunter is now
his sole surviving assignee. Jacob Smith and one William
MJGee.were sureties for William Peek as collector of taxes for
the Rhode Island district, and the United States obtained ajudg.
ment for a large. sum, viz. thirteen thousand five hundred and
eight dollars, against the principal and sureties in August 1811.
The suit was commenced in May of the same year. Upon his
commitmentto prison, by force of the execution issued in this
case, Smith petitioned the then secretary of the treastry for
relief; in which petition he stated, that he was reduced to
poverty, that he had obtained the benefit of the Rhode Island
insolvent law, and surrendered all*hisproperty as compelled
by that law to his assignee. He states in that petition, that
his own insolvency 'was hurried, if not occasioned .by his
having paid considerable sums on account of suretyship at the
euistom house; and in. particular this very sum of two thousand some hundred doilars for the Crarys,'in the year 1809.
Upon this full statement of the case, relief wah granted him,
and .he wa5 discharged from prison in compliance witt a warrant from the treasury, on the 17th day of October 1811.
Before his discharge, Smith executea an assignment of his
property to the United States. The assignment purports to
convey all and the same properfy, which was conv.eyed by his
previous assignment under the insolvent law. He recites and
includes his sworn inventory under the insolvent law, and
refers to his demand against the Crarys.
After the release of Smith, the surety, the United States in
1812 imprisoned Peck, tie delinquent principal; and congress discharged him from that imprisonment, upon his assignment and canveyance of all his estfite, real and. personal,

SUPREME COURT.
[Hunter vs. The United States.]

which he-then owned or might be entitled to. -This was done
on the 12th of June 1812.
In July 1824, under the peculiar circumstances of delay,
difficulty, and embarrassment, set forth in the answer, the assignee of the Crarys recovered and received rrom the United
States under their treaty with Spain, and iriconformity-to
statutes by them enacted, the sum of.money ai stated in the
bill, and as admitted in the answer.
The appellant in his answers contendbd,-tbat'somuch of this
sum as by operation of laW beronged' to Smith, he, as the assignee of Smith, was bound to pay over to the ascertained
creditors of Smith, for whose benefit the assignment under the.
state insolvent law was made, In the- original bill the claim
of the United States was rested upon the assignment mad to
them by Smith: but afterwards an amended bill Was filed,.
in which their right to payment of the whole amount of the
judgment against Smith is asserted on their right of priority
under the laws of the United States.
The-circuit court of Rhode Island gave a decree in favour
of the United States, and the defendant appealed to this court.
The case'was argued by-Mr Hunter for the appellant; and
by Mr Berrien, attorney general, for the United States.
For the appellant it was contended,
1. That so far as the claim of the United State.. rests upon
the assignment made to them by Smith, it is unavailing; as
Smith had when the same was executed nothing to convey.
That assignment was nominal and voluntary, and is opposed
to a previous assignment well known to the- United States,
and referred to in the assignment to the United States.
2. So far as the claim of the United States is made to depend on the law of priority, that law is not applicable to this case.
S. If the law of priority is applicable to such a case as this,
it has been by various, deliberate and definite acts on the part
of the United States, waved-and renounced.
4. The release of Peck the principal by the act of congress
is, combined with the circumstance of the case, a release of
Smith, the surety.
5. The absence of all demand on the part of the United
States for so many years implies a relinquishment of their

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[Hunter vs. The United States.]

claim, and subjects it to such imputations of staleness and after
thought, as are incompatible with the principles of'benignity,
policy and justice, which actuate courts of justice.
There is no equity in the plaintiff's bill, and an unwarrantable resort to a chancery jurisdiction;
Mr Hunqter argued that the original bill and the amended
bill get up different grounds of claim. The original bill cannot be suppressed, and must be taken into view by the court;
as it shows the ground of the claim of the United States to
have been exclusively the assignment made by Jacob Smith in
1811, under the law authorizing the discharge of Smith by the
secretary of the treasury.
The suit by the United States against Smith as surety
of Peck was commenced in May 1811, and judgment obtained and execution issued the same year. The bill states
the insolvency of Smith in IS11. Smith had paid for the
Crarys the amount which the United States ask to recover, and
this was one of the known causes of his insolvency, and so
re'presented in his petition for a discharge. The bond of Peck
to the United States3 in which Smith was surety, was signed
some years before; and when Smith was discharged by the
state insolvent code, nothing was due to the United States by
him. Thus, when the claim of the United States was established, the claim of Smith oh the Crarys had 'passed under
his assignment made in 1808, and belonged to, his 'creditors.
at the time of his discharge.
The acts of congress, which give the United States a right
to priority of payment, apply to debts due at the time of the
insolvency of their debtors. To sust~in the right of priority
there must be a debt actually due.
When the judgment against Jacob Smith was'obtained by
the United States, he had -no property upon which this ascertained, and not until then existing,, debt to the United
States could attach; all his property had passed from him under the insolvent law. of Rhode Island, and belonged- to hi
creditors. The date of the inventory, 1809, fixes the'period
of the insolvency; and from that time in judgment of law, as
well as according to tlie provisions of the Rhode Island statute, the assignee of the insolvent is deemed in possession.
These principles are also recognized in The United States vs.
VOL. V.-X

SUPREME COURT.
[Hunter vs. The United States.]

Bryan ,and Woodcock, 9 Cranch, 374; 3 Peters's Condens.
Rep. 436. The United States vs. Fisher, 2 Cranch, 258;
1 Peters's Condens. Rep. 421.
There was no notice to the assignee under the insolvent
law, of the claim of the United States. The want of notice
of this claim is fatal. The lien of the United States is a latent
invisible claim. The act of taking the assignment is evidence
that the claim of priority did not exist; it supersedel the
right of priority: both cannot stand together.
The-priority. of -the United States was also waved by the
payment of the money to the assignee of Crary under the
award of the commissioners of the United States, acting under
the Florida treaty. The lien of the United States was at
common law, and tl6 act of eongress relative to payments
made.under the Florida treaty, authorised the United States
to retain for money due to them by those whose claims- were
allowed by the commissioners. They did not retain this money, and thus they relinquished their rights. They had a full
knowledge of this claim belonging to their debtor Smith, and
that it had passed to his assignee under the insolvent law; and
therefore no allegation of mistake can be made. Cited Jacob
and Walker, 262. 1 Gallison, 392.
The release of Peck, the principal, was a release of Smith
as his surety: after that release the surety could not proceed
against him. After the judgment on 'the bond the parties to
that judgment became co-debtors; and the release of Peck from
imprisonment we$ an extinguishment of the whole debt due
upon the judgment. 2 Dane's Ab. 651. 2 Dali. 373. 3 Serg.
and Rawle, 465, 6. 13 Mass. 148. 16 Mass. 581. 8 Mass.
40. .6Term Re ports$ 525. 2 Bro. Chan. Rep. 164. 2 Ves.
Jun. 540. 17 John. 384. 13 John. 174. 16 John. 77. 10
John. 587, 174, 383. 15 John. 435. 6 Ves. 607. 6 Dow,
238.

The delay of the United States to proceed against their principal debtor, Peck, discharges the surety. The principle of
nullum tempus, will not -protect the claim of the United
States. Here there has been more than delay; acts have been
done which show the purposes of the delay, and that it was
the purpose to discharge the surety. The bond was executed
in 1802; no suit was instituted until 1811, and this bill was not

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[Hunter vs. The United States.]

filed until 1825. On principles of peace, acquiescence and security, a release will be presumed. Then all these combine
with laches and positive acts. The assignee of Smith has
been permitted to procure the payment of the claim under the
treaty.
The United States have a clear .remedy at law, and cannot therefore proceed in a court of chancery. By this proceeding the defendant is deprived of a trial by jury, and is
subjected to heavy expenses. No discovery was required, as
the claim of the United States rests upon testimony in their
own possession; as all they seek to recover would be obtained,
if any claim exists, in an action for money had and received,
that form of action should have been resorted to. The provisions of thejudiciary act, which require that the jurisdiction
of cdurts of law shall be resorted to in all cases in which such
courts afford a remedy, was not without meaning, and should
be applied to this case. In any stage of a cause in which-a
want of chancery jurisdiction is discovered, the bill will be,
dismissed.
Mr Berrien, attorney general, for the United States.
The claim of the United States does not rest on the assignment of Smith. It is presented under the sanction of the right
of priority, which, if it existed, could not be affected by the
firsi proceedings in the case.
The fund which the United States ask to have appropriated
for their payment is in the hands of the assignee of the Crarys,
for distribution; and Smith, being a creditor of the Crarys, is
entitled to a prefereuce -for-the extent of payments made by
him on custom house bonds. By the sixty-fifth section of the
duty act, he is substituted in place of the United States. This
preference passed to the United States.
Peck and Smith were debtors to'the Unit&l States in 1805.
Judgment was obtained against them in August 1811, and the
assignment to the appellant was in September of that year.
The right of Smith was thus vested in the appellant, for
his creditors; and attached on this fund which he held liable
to distribution among the creditors of Smith. The United
States, being a priority creditor, claim their preference. The

SUPREME COURT.
[Hunter vs. The United States.]

assignment made by Smith was an act of insolvency, which
consummated the rights of the United States. The United
States vs. Fisher et al. 2 Cranch, 358; 1 Peters's Condensed
Reports, 421.

There was a debt due from Peck and Smith in 1805. That
debt existed, and was acknowledged when the bond wos executed, and the judgment in 1811 did no more than ascertain
the amount of the debt.
But if the court do not adopt this view of the facts, a.debt
was fully established in 1811, and the priority of -the United
States would from that time nttach upon any fund which was in
the hands of the assignee of Smith for distribution, or which
might afterwards come into his hands, with notice of the claim
of the United States.
The law of the United States. which authorised the secretary of the treasury to retain for the payments, to be
made under the Florida treaty, did not apply to this case.
The provision is made for cases in which the person to whom
the award is made is a debtor; and in this case the award was in
favour of the Crarys. Thus no waver can be asserted. It
was nQt a case for the action of the officers of the treasury.
The release of Peck was not a discharge of Smith. Peck
was only discharged from imprisonment, reserving a right
against his property. For the debt to the United States his
property continued liable. The judgment against him was
continued in force; and the provisions of the special act fop
his discharge do not vary from those of the general act of
1798, authorizing the secretary of the treasury to discharge in
similar cases. Cited 5 East, 147. 1 Gallison, 32. The proper inquiry is, what was the intention of the legislature? It
was a mere i elease from imprisonment, which was not to affect
the rights of the United-States, but'against the person of their
debtor.
This is not a stale demand. There is nothing in the case
which shows that from 1809. to 1825, 'Smith had any funds
out of which payment of the debt could have been made; unleps the secretary of the treasury could&have retained, which
could not be. A demand is considered stale in equity, where
there has been laches in enforcing the claim. But no such

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[Hunte vs. The United States.]

laches are to be imputed to the government. As to laches,
cited I Sch. and Lef 413. 2 Merivale, 171.
The defendant stands precisely in the same situation as
Smith himself, and he could not set up laches.
The case is one peculiarly proper for a court of equity. The
appellant is~a trustee to distribute funds among creditors; and
the case is not the ordinary one of money had and received.
The United States do not claim a distributive share, but their
claim is an exclusive right to the fund as-the creditor of Smith,
who was the creditor of the Crarys. The case of the United
States vs. Howland and Allen, 4 Wheat. id , is very much
in point in this case.

-

Mr Justice M'LEAN delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is a suit in chancery brought to this court, by an appeal from the decree of the circuit court of Rhode Island.
The material facts in the case are these.
William Hunter, the defendant in the court below, is the
surviving assignee of Archibald' and Frederick Crary, who in
June 1809 obtained the benefit of the insolvent law of Rhode
Island. ' One Jacob Smith, as surety on a custom house bond,
had been compelled to pay to the United' States, in May
1808, for the Crarys, about two thousand one hundred and
twenty-five dollars. In February 1810, Smith Mled his petition for the benefit of the insolvent law and in August 181"1,
Hunter, and one Littlefield, now deceased, were appointed
assignees. On the 3d day of September following, Smith
made to them an assignment of his property. - Smith and one
M'Gee were sureties for William Peck, as marshal of the
Rhode Island district, who became a defaulter to the government, and against whom and his sureties, in August 1811,
a judgment was recovered for thirteen thousand five hundred
and eight dollars.
Upon his being afterwards committed to prison, on an alias
execution issued in pursuance of this judgment, Smith petitioned the secretary 6f the treasury for relief; and stated, that
he was reduced to poverty, .hd had assigned all his property
under*the insolvent law. His- insolvency, he alleged, had
been accelerated, if not produced, by his having paid large sums,

SUPREME COURT.
[Hunter vs. The United States.]

as surety, on certain custom house bonds; and particularly the
above sum for the Crarys. He was discharged by the secretary, on the 17th day of October 1811, on his making a formal
assignment of all his effect? to the United States. This assignment purports to convey the same property which he had
previously assigned. In 1812, the United States imprisoned
Peck, the principal, on execution, and in the month of June
in the same year, he was discharged, by act of congress.
In July 1804, Hunter, as the assignee of the Crarys, obtained from the United States, under their treaty with Spain,
the sum of eight thousand one hundred and fifty-eight dollars,
and eighty-one cents. Out of this sum, Smith was entitled to
the amount he paid for the Crarys; and the United States
claim the same from Hunter, as assignee, in part satisfaction
of their judgment against Smith. Hunter claims this sum
in behalf of the creditors of Smith, under his first assignment.
By the original bill, the government rested its claim on
the second assignr.ent. - This clearly cannot be sustained.
Smith, under the insolvent law of Rhode Island, having assigned all his property for the benefit of his creditors, could
not, by a subsequent assignment to the United States, affect
the first transfer. The government can set up no right, under
the second assignment, which might not be claimed by any
other creditor.
This ground is abandoned by the amended bill, and the
claim of the government is placed on its priority, under the
act of congress. By this act a preference is given to a government debt over all others; and if the debtor be insolvent,
such debt must first be'satisfied.
It is true, as the defendant insists, that the original bill still
remains in the record, and forms a part of the case. But the
amendment presents a new state of facts, which it was competent for the complainants to do; and on the hearing, they may
rely upon the whole case made in the bill, or may abandon
some of the special prayer~s it contains.
The same right of priority, whicli" belongs to the government, attaches to the claim of an individual, who, -as surety,
has paid money to the government. Under this provision,
Smith could claim a preference to other creditors, for the

J-ANUARY TERM 1831.
[Hunter vs. The United Statel.]

money he paid as surety for the Crarys; and on his right,
the priority of the government is asserted.
The defendant resists this demand, on various grounds. He
contends in the first place, that the doctrine of priority is not
applicable in this case.
This prerogative of the government can only operate, it is
insisted, on a debt due at the time. That it cannot reach a
debt which depends upon a future contingency: and such was
the claim of the Crarys, under the Spanish treaty. It'was not
realized until in June 1824, nearly thirteen years after the
benefit of the insolvent law had been extended to the claimants.
It is also contended, that the first assignment of Smith had
relation back and took effect, from the date of his inventory,
which was prior to the judgment obtained against him, by the
United States. This being the case, the priority of the government could not attach, it is urged; for it can only act on a
debt, and there was no debt, in this case, as against Smith,
until judgment was entered.
The assignment under the insolvent law could only take
effect from the time it was made. Until the court, in the exercise of their judgment determine that the applicant is entitled to the benefit of the law, and in pursuance of its requisitions he assigns his property, the proceedings are inchoate
and do not relieve the party. It is the transfer which vests in.
the assignee the property of the insolvent, for the benefit of
his creditors. If, before the judgment of the court, the petitioner fail to prosecute his petition, or discontinue it, his property and person are liable to execution, the same as though
be had not applied for the benefit of the law. And if, after
the judgment of the court, he fail to assign his property, it
will be liable to be taken by his creditors on execution.
The property placed upon the inventory of an insolvent,
may be protected from execution, while he prosecutes his petition; but this cannot exclude the claim of a creditor, who obtains a judgment, before the assignment. If this Spanish claim
had passed into the hands of the assignee of Smith, and been
distributed by him before the debt of the UnitedStates was
established, or notice of its existence had been given to him,
no controversy could have arisen on the subject.

SUPREME COURT.
[Hunter vs. The United States.]

The defendant, as assignee, could not have been held responsible, under such circumstances; nor could the preditors
who received payment have been compelled to refund to the
government.
If the judgment of the. government had not preceded the
assignment of Smith, there might have bee4 some ground to
question the right of priority which is contended fpr.
iBut the judgment preceded the assignment, which gav6 the
government an unquestionable right of priority on all the
property of Smith. Did not this right extend to the claim on
the Crarys. It would seem that no doubt car exist on this
subject. If the right cover any part of the propertyof the insolvent, it must extend to the whole, until the debt be satisfied.
It was proper for Smith to include in his assignment the
claim on the Crarys. However remote the probability may
have been, at that time, of realizing this demand, still, under
the insolvent law, it was an assignable interest. If, at the
time' of the assignment, this claim was contingent, it is no
longer so. It has been reduced into possession, and is now in
the hands of the representative of the debtor to the government:
If, under such circumstances, the priority of the government does not exist, it cannot be said to exist in any case. It
would he difficult to present a stronger case, for the operation
of this prerogative.
But, it is contended by the defendant below, that if the
doctrine of preference or priority be applicable. to this case,
the United States, by various acts, have waved it.
The release of Peck from imprisonment by the act of
congress, under the circumstances of the case, it is urged) was
a release of Smith the surety.
This act was passed the 24th of June 1812, and it provided
that before his discharge Peck should assign "all his estate,
real and personal, which he may now own or. be entitled to,
for the use and benefit of the United States." And it also provided, "that any estate, real or personal, which the said William Peck may hereafter acquire, shall be liable to be taken in
the same manner as if he had not been, imprisoned and discharged."

JANUARY TERM'1s31.
[Hunter vs. The United States.]

B3y the act providing for the. relief of persons imprisoned
for debt du.e to thi Urnited States, passed June 6th,- 1798, the
secretary of the treasury is authorised to, discharge incertain
cases, dnd thd individnal so discharged, it is declared, cshall
-not be liable to be imprisoned again for the same debt, but the
judgment shal remain good, and sufficien't in law."'
As in the act of 1798 there is an express provision that
"the judgment shall remain good;" whidh is omitted in the
act discharging Peck,* a doubt has. been raised whether, the
judgment against him can be further prosecuted. If by this
act the' judgment be released igainst Peck, as a matter-of
course his surety is discharged.. This ct specially-provides,
£¢ that any estate which Peck'may subsequently aequite, shall
be liabli to be taken in the. same manner as if he had not been
imprisoned and discharged."
.From this provisiofi it clearly appears, that the release from
imprisonment was the only object of tle statute,'aud a proper
constiuction of it does not release the Judgment. , If the
property of Peck may be taken "in the same manner as if
he had not been imprisoned," it may be taken under the game
judgment.
That the same rules of -contract are applicable' where the
arty, as between individuals, is admitted;, but
sovereign is
the right of the sovereign todischarge the debtor from imprisonment, without releasing the debt, is clear. And how
can such a release discharge the surety?
D6es it embarrass his recouise against the principal? In
this ca.e, if:Smith had paid the debt to- the government, hemight have resorted to all the remedies against Peck, which
the law allows in any case.
The recourse of the government against the property of
Peck still remains unimpaired; consequently, the judgment
remains unsatisfied, and no act has been done to the prejudice
of the surety.
The cases in 2 Dane's Abridg. 155; 3 Sergeant and Rawle,
465,466; and 2 Dallas, 373, were cited to show that while a defendant is charged in execution, the debt is considered as satisfied; and that a discharge of one co-debtor is a discharge of all.
The imprisonment of a defendant is a means to enforce the
payment of the judgment, and is Only considered a satisfaction
.VOL. V.-Y

SUPREME COURT.
[Hunter vs. The United States.]

of it, so far as to suspend all other process. If, by the operation of law, by an escape, or by any other means, without the
assent of the plaintiff, the defendant be released from prison,
the judgment still remains in full force .against him.
Tfie imprisonment of Peck the principal, was no bar to ark
execution against'the body of his surety. In the case under
consideration, Smith had been imprisoned and discharged before Peek ,was confined. These proceedings were all regular,
however great the hardship may have been to the surety; and
did, not, in any manner, lessen the responsibility of either
principal or surety.
The authorities read in the argument going to- show a release of the sureties, wher, the creditor without their assent
enlarges the time of payment, &c. are not considered as opposed to the doctrines here laid down.
The act of the government, in releasing both the principal
and surety-from imprisonment, was designed for the benefit
of the unfortunate debtors, and no unnecessary obstructions
should be opposed to the exercise of so humane a policy. If
the discharge of "the principial, under such circumstances,
should be a release of the debt against the surety, the consequence would be, that the, principal must remain in jail until
the process of the law were exhausted against his surety.
This would operate against the liberty of the citizen; and
should be avoided, unless required to secure the public interest.
A dischirge from prison by operation of law, does not prevent the judgment creditor from prosecuting his judgment
against the estate of the defendant. To this rule a discharge
under the special provisions of a bankrupt law, may form an.
exception.
In the cases under consideration the defendants were. dis charged under laws which expressly reserved the right to the
governiment to enforce the judgment against the property of
the defendants.
In 1 Peters; 573, this court deeided, otra full consideration,
of the case, that a discharge of the prindipal, under an act of
congress, did- not release the debt against the surety.
. Byan act of congress of the 24th'of May 1824, respecting
payments under the Spanish treaty, it is provided, "that in all

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[Hfinter vs. The United States.]

'cses where the person or persons in whose name or for whose
benefit'and interest. the aforesaid awards shall be made, shall
be in debt and in arrears to the United States, the sez-etary
of the treasury shall retain the same out of the amount of the
aforesaid awards," &c.
Under this provision it is contended, that it was the, duty
of the secretary to retain, the amount of Smith's demand
against the Crarys; and not having done so, the payment rrtist
be considered as an abandonment of tb& claim. That'the seeretary must have. had notice of Smith's claim. is insisted on,
because it was stated on his schedule which was assigned, to
the United States; and also in his petition- to the secretary of
the treasury, bn which he was released from imprisonment,
Having a knowledge of this--claim of Smith's against the
Crarys, it was in the power of'the secretary, under the law, to
withhold it, and appropriate it .in part discharge of 'the judgment. The prioritywhich first attached to Smith, and through
him to the Crarys, would. have enabled the government, without the aid of the other provision, to retain the money., But
can 'the payment of it, under such circumstances, operate as a
release to Smith?
It might be dangerous to give the same-,effect to a voluntary
payment, by"an agent -6f the government, as if made by an
individual in his own right. The concerns of the government
are so complicated and extensive, that no-head of any branch
of it'can have the same personal knowledge of the details of
business, which may be'presuiiied in private affairs.. And if
in the case under consideration, some clerk in thatreasury departihent, or even the secretary, did pay to the assignee of
the Crarys the amount claimed by Smith, which might and
perhaps ought to have been retained, is it an abandonment of
the claim?
Where an officer of the governmentis in arrears, his salary
is required .to be withheld until the sum in arrears shalh be
paid. In. such a case, the books of the treasury would furnish
its officers with notice of. the delinquency; and yet, would it
be contended, that a payment of the salary, -which ought to
have been retained, would, release the debt?
It cannot be admitted that an omission of duty bf this
kind, as a payment through mistake, by an officer, shall bar

SUPREME COURT.
[Hunter vs. The United States.]

the claim of the government. If in violation of his duty, an
officer shll knowingly,, or even corruptly, do an adt injurious
to the'public, can, it be considered obligatory? He can only
bind the government by acts which come within a just exer-.
cise of his official pbwdr.
The payment, to the assignee'of the Crarys can in no respect affect'the claim now set up against the asignee of Smith.
An objection is urged on the ground thaf the United State3
have failed to prosecute their claim with sufficient diligence,
and that'it is subject to the imputation of staleness.
Until, the sum of money in controversy was received by the
. ssignee of Smith in 1824, the .Unitecl States coul& not be
charged with a Want of diligence in prosecuting their claim
against Snxi'th. They had obtained- a judgment in 1811, and
there-was no property within the reach of any process in that
judgment, by which it could be satisfied.
Td subject the above claim to this judgment, the bill in the
present case was filed in 1824. If, therefore, a want of diligence could in any case be charged against the government,
there is nO ground to make the charge, in this case.
The last objection urged by the defendant-is, that there was
full and ample relief to be obtained at'law; and Consequently,
chancery cann6t take jurisdiction of the case.
In his capacity as trustee, the government seeks to make
HLunter liable. He bears the same relation to the creditors of
Smith.- It was proper in him, conceiving as he did that the
fund in his hands should he paid to these.creditors, to resist
the claim of the government.
Until its right of priority, unider aQ4 the, circumstaees of
the case, was judicially established, he, in the exercise of his
discretionr might withhold the payment. The trustee can
only be desirous of making the payment, as the law requires.
How is this liability to be enforced? What process at law
would be adequate to give the relief prayed for in the bill?
It is the peculiar province of equity, to compel the execution of trusts. In this case,, it is conceived; the proceeding at
law would not be adequate.- The fund, to be reached was in
the hands of a trustee; and it waqiniport~nt that it should not
pass from his hands'to the creditors.of Smith,
The amount of the claim against the- Crarys might. be dis-

SANUARY TERM 1831.

189

[Hunter vs. The United States.J

puted; the trustee was entitled to his conimissionsi and other
difficulties were likely to arise, in the progress of 'he investigation, which could only be fully adjusted, at the instance of
the United States, by a pourt'of chancery. No doubexists,
therefore, that a resort to the equity jurisdiction of the circuit
court in this case was proper and necessary. The judguient
of the circuit court must be affirmed, but without costs.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the circuit court of the United States for the district. of Rhode Island, and was argued by counsel; on consideration whereof, it is ordered and decreed by this court, that
the decree of the said circuit court in this cause be, and the
same is hereby affirmed, without costs.

