SUPREME COURT.

CATHCART AND JANE HIS WIFE, JOHN WOODSIDE, RICHARD SmI'ti, RICHARD HARRISON, JOSEp AwN
DERSON, 'HomAS T. TUcKER, AND WILLIAM H. CRAWFORD,

JA.ES L.

SECRETARY OF THE TBEAsURy, APPELLANTS, VS. WILLIAM

ROBINsox, APPELLEE.
Excess of price over value, if the contract be free from imposition, is not of
itself sufficient to prevent a decree for a specific performance. But though it
will not, standing alone, prevent a court of chancery enforcing a contract, it is
an ingredient, iwhich associated with others will contribute to prevent the interference of a court of equity.
The tlifference between that degree of unfairness which will induce a court of
equity to interfere actively by setting aside a contract, and that which will induce a court to withhold its aid, is well settled. It is said that the plaintiff
must come into cout with clean hands, and that a defendant may resist a bill
for specific performance by showing that under the circumstances the plaintiff
is not entitled to the relief he asks. C -ission or mistake in the agreement; or
thatit is unconscientious or unreasonabL - or that there has been concealment,
misrepresentation or any unfimcss; are ( ,merated among the causes which
will induce the court to refute its aid. If to any unfairness a great inequality
between the price and value be added, a court of chancery will not afford its
aid.
The right of a vendor to come into a court of equity to enforce a specific performance is unquestionable. Such subjects are within the settled and common jurisdiction of the court. It is equally well settled, that if the jurisdictiorr
attaches, the c6urt will go on to do complete justice; although in its progres&
it may decree on a matter which was cognizable at law.
The contract between the parties contained a stipulation that the payment of the
purchase money 'of the property should be secured by the execution of a deed of
trust on the whole amount of a claim the purchaser had oti the United States
The penalty which was to be paid on the non-performance of the contract,
being substituted for the purchase money, it should retain the same protection.
A conveyance of the whole of his property by a husband to trustees, for ihe benefit
of his wife and his issue, is a voluntary conveyance; and is at this day held by the
courts ofEngland to be absolutely void under the statute of the twenty-seventh of
EliZabeth, against a subsequent purchaser, even although he purchased with notice. These decisions do not maintain that a transaction valid at the time is rendered invalid by the subsequent act of the-party. They do not maintain that the
character of the transactiori is changed, but that testimony afterwards furnished
may prove its real character. The subsequent sale of the property is carried
bask to the teed of settlement, lnd considered as proving that deed to have
been executed with a fraudulent intent to deceive a subsequent purchaser.
The statute of Elizabeth Is in force in the district of Columbia.
The rule, which has been uniformly observed by this court in cpnstruing statutes,
is to adopt the construction made by the courts of the country by whose legis-

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[Cathcart et a). vs. Robinson.]
lature, the statute was enacted. This rule maybe susceptible of some modification, when applied to British statutes which are adopted in any of -the
states. By adopting them they become our own; as entirely as if they had
been enacted by the legislature of the state.
The construction which British statutes had received in England, at the time
of their adoption in this country, indeed .to the time of the separation of. this
country from the British empire, may very properly be considered as accompanying the statutes themselves, and formingan integral part of them. But
however subsequent decisions may be respected, and certainly they are entitled
to great respect, their absolute authority is not admitted. If the English
courts vary their construction of a statute which is common to both countries,
we do not hold ourselves bound to fluctuate with them.
At the commencement of the American revolution the construction ofthe statute
of Eliiabeth seems to have been settled. The leaning of the courts towards
the opinion that every voluntary settlement would be deemed void as to subsequent purchasers was very strong; and few cases are to be found in which
such conveyance has been sustained. But those decisions seem to have bein
made on the principle that such subsequent sale furnishes a strong presumption of a fraudulent intent, which threw on the person claiming under the settlement the burthen of proving it from the settlement itself, or from extrinsic
circumstances, to be made in good faith; rather than as furishing conclusive
evidence, not to be repelled by any circumstances whatever..
There Is some contrariety and some ambiguity in the old cases on the subject;.
but this court conceives that the modein decisions establishing the absolute
conclusiveness of a subsequent sale to fixfraud on a family settlement, made
without valuable consideration-fraud not to be repelled by any circumstances
whatever-go beyond the construction which prevailed at the American revolotion, and ought not to be followed.
A subsequent sale, without notice, by a person who had made a settlement ndt on
valuable consideration, was presumptive evidence of fraud, which threw on
these claiming under such settlement the burthen of proving that it was made
bona fide. This principle, therefore, according to the uniform course of this
court, must be adopted in construing the statute of 27 Elizab. as it. applies
to this case.

APPEAL from the circuit court of the county of Washington, in the district of Colurpbia.
In the circuit court for the county of Alexandria, the appellant, William Robinson, fifed a bill for the specific execution
of a contract enterecd into between him and Mr James Leander Cathcart, on the 10th of'September 1822.
The bill was filed in March 1829, and' ah injunction issued
as prayed.. Afterwards, in July 1829, the proceedings in the
cage were removed to Washington, by a bill filed there, in
which was incorporated the former bill and other matters, and
introducing, as parties,the trustee of Mrs Cathcart; and praying
VOL. V-2 I

SUPREME COURT.
[Cathcart ei al ms. Robinson.]

thatthe injunction may be extended to him, and to the cashier
of the bank of the ,United States, and the officers of the treasury, to prevent the payment over of a fund alleged in the
bill to be pledged for the performance of the contract.
The circuit court gave a decree in favour of the complainant,
and Mr Cathcart appealed to this court.
The case was argued at January term 1830, by Mr Coxe
and Mr Key for the appellants, and by Mr Lee and Mr Jones
for the appellee. The case was held under advisement, until
this term;*when:
Mr Chief Justice MARSAALL delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is a suit in chancery brought by the appellee in the
court of the United States for the district of Columbia, to enforce the specific performance of a contract entered into between him ana James L. Cathcart, one of the appellants, for
the sale and purchase of a tract of land,, called Howard, lying
in the county of Alexandria; and also to subject a claim of the
said Cathcart on the United States under the provisions of the
eleventh'article of the treaty with Spain, s;gned at Washington on the 22d of February 1819, to the payment of the purchase money.
The agreement, which was executed on the 10th of September 1822, stipulated that Robinson should convey to Catheart
the place called Howard as soon as a proper deed could be
made: that Cathcart should pay therefor the sum of eight thousand dollars by instalments; the first payment of five thousand dollars to be made on the 1st of January 1825, and the
residue in three equal annual payments, to commence from
that time. To secure these payments, Cathcart agreed to execute four bonds, bearing interest from the first day of January
1825; and, as a further security, to execute a-deed of trust, with
his wife's relinquishment of dower, upon Howard, and likewise on the total amount of his claim on the United States,
under the provisions of the eleventh article of the treaty with
Spain, signed at Washington on the 22d of February 1819: and
the contract concluded with the following words:- "In further
confirmation of the said agreement, the parties binl themselves,
each to the other in the penal sum of one thousand.dollars."1

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[Cathcart et al. vs. Robinson.]

At the date bf this agreement Howard was in possession of
a tenant, John T. 0. Wilbar, who had a right to hold the premises till the end of the year. Under an arrangement with
Cathcart he surrendered possession of the place soon after the
purchase was made.
-Previous to the contract of the 10th of September 1822, on
the 10th of November 1818, James L. Cathcart eiecuted a deed
conveying to John Woodside, the father of Mrs Cathcart, foi
her benefit. all his property, including his claim under the Spanish treaty. This deed conveyingwills is recorded in the proper
office for the recording of deeds conveying lands in the city of
Washington.
The answer of Cathcart resists the claim for the performance of the contrdct on three grounds.
1. That .hewas induced to enter it by the fraudulent migrepresentations of the plaintiff.
2. That the price was excessive.
3. That he executed the contract under an impression,
sanctioned by the conduct of the plaintiff; that at any time before its completion, he might release himself from it by paying
the penalty of one thousand dollars.
The answer of Woodside claims the Spanish fund as trustee
for MNIrs Cathcart; denies being consulted about the purchase
of Howard, or that he was party or privy to the contract;
and avers that he never assented to any appropriation of that
fund to purchase any estate from Robinson.
The misrepresentations alleged in the answer respect the
boundaries of Howard, its value, and its fitness for an academy,
the purpose for which it was avowedly purchased.
At the date of the contract Mr Robinson was-in possession
of a small adjoining tract called Riddle's, his title to which
was incomplete, a paft of which, comprehending a peach orchard, was within the fence that enclosed Howard. The answer charges that Mr Robinson represented all the land within
this fence as being part of the Howard tract.
As this allegation avers new matter, not responsive to the
bill, it cannotbe regarded vnless it be proved. Miss Amelia H.
Cathcart deposes to the truth of the statements of conversations
when the agreement was executed, which are contained in an
affidavit previously made by James Huttoq. She adds, "11

SUPREME COURT.
[Cathcart et al. -s. Robinson.]

likewise am willing to declare on oath, that William Robinson
stated that Howard was a beautiful place, that it was remarxably healthy, that it had a great deal of fruit on it, and a fine
peach orchard up by the fence, or nedt- the fence that divided
She adds, that the family
Howard from Riddle's place."
on Howard, and that the
was
orchard
peach
believed that the
fence which Mr Robinson referred to was the division line between the Howard estate and Riddle's place.
The peculiar language of the witness, that she "is willing
to declare on oath" what William Robinson stated; instead of
declaring expressly what he did state; maybe an accidental
form of expression not entitled to much attention. If we understand the deponent as averring on oath what she declares
she is willing to aver on oath, she represents Mr Robinson
as saying, that Howard had on it a fine peach orchard near the
fence that divided it. from Riddle's place. This implies that
the fence was the dividing line between the two places, which
would be a misrepresentation of boundary.
It is difficult to assign a reason'for thia voluntary and useless misrepresentation. It is understood to have been made
on the day on which the contract wa§ signed. It could not be
as an inducement to the contract, because that was formed previously. In. a letter of the 9th of September, addressed to
Wilbar the tenant, Robinson informs him that the farm is sold
to Cathcart, who was extremely desirous to take immediate
possession; and he had assured him that Wilbar was willing to
accommodate him immediately: he therefore requests Wilbar
to ddliver possession. The misrepresentation, ther6fore, at that
time could he of no avail. Mr Cathcart in his answer does
not aver that it was made at that time. He iays that having
advertised his desire to purchase a small farm, where he might
establish a boarding school, the defendant offered him Howard
as a place adapted to his purpose. The complainantafterwards
visited this place, but did not see the defendant, who resided
at a considerable distance from it. The farm was occupied by
a tenant. Mr Cathcart says that, after this visit, Mr Robinson informed him that all the land, between the fence near the
brick house (on the place called Riddle's) and the house on
Howard, belonged to Howard place. He does not say-when
this communication was made.

JANUARY TERM 1831.
ECathcart et al. vs. Robinson.]

James Hutton, one of the witnesses to the contract, was eamined. He deposes expressly and particularly to the conversation respecting the penalty of one thousand dollars, but is
silent as to that respecting the boundary of Howard.
In his letter of the 17th of August 1822, -in which Mr
Robinson states the terms onwhich he will sell Howard, he
says, " The forty acres adjoining I would sell to you for two
thousand dollars," &c. "This is the place whereon the brick
house, built for a wagon tavern, stands. Ithas a good well of
water at the door, and orchard of fine fruit.? That part of
the letter which respects Howard is silent respecting fruit.
On the 29th of October Robinson addressed a letter to Oathcart stating, that he had performed his part of the agreement,
and requesting Cathcart to call on Mr Jones who would deliver him a deed regularly executed for Howard on receiving
the papers which were to be executed on the part of Cathcart.
This letter was answered on the 14th of December. Mr Cathcart expresses his willingness to give the security proposed,
but objects to incurring any expense in the preparation of the
papers. It is answered more particularly on the Sth.of February 1823. In this letter, he says, he had called tivice on Mr
Jones, but had found that gentleman too much occupied to lttend to the business in question. He adds, "I am in no hurry
for the deed, although the plot of the land would he ofsu v.e;
ad would zndicate w/at part of the land appertains to
Howard." "The land" is a term which must apply to Hbward and Riddle's place; because both were the property of Mr
Robinson and had beenocetipied by Wilbar. The expression
is with difficulty to be reconciled to an opinion that the fence
,was the dividing line between tfiem. The same inference may
be drawn from Mr Cathcart's letter of the 24th of Augut 1822,
announcing his determination to make an offer for Howard not
differing essentially from the'proposals of Mr Robinson. After.dxpressing his expectation of being permitted to hold Riddle's-place as Wilbar held it, and that he should be preferred
as a purchaser, on the same terms, to any other person when
Mr Robinson should complete his title to it, he adds, as a proviso -to his offer, "that if I do not purchase it, I shall not'be
put-to any expense in the division andfencing off the said."
The word "said" musE refer to Howard place, and indi-

SUPREME COURT.
tCathcart et a. vy. Robinson.]

cates a knowledge at that time that it was not divided from
Riddle's by the fence.
In the early.part of June 1823, Mr Thompson F. Mason, on
the part of Mr Robinson, waited on Mr Cathcart to complete
the transaction by obtaining his signature to the necessaiy
papers. Mr Cathcart declined signing them, and de$1ared his
determination to relinquish the-purchase and pay the penalty.
He said nothing to Mr Mason of any misrepresentation madeby Mr Robinson. In a letter to Mr Mason, written soon afterwards, he enumbrates all his objections to the conduct of
Mr Robinson, and-does not include- his misrepresentation respecting the boundary of Howard among them, although he
does complain of. not having Riddle's place. He also says,
"In one of my letters I requested Mr Robinson to send me the
deed of Howard. The reason is explained in another letter;
"as I wished to know the boundaries,for as yet I know not
it& extent."
On the 21st of April 1824, Mr Cathcart wrote again to Mr
Mason. In this letter, after professing to take a brief retrospect of the premises, he again enumerates his causes of complaint against Mr Robinson, and does not place the misrepresentation of boundary among them.
Upon this review of the testimony in the cause, the court is
of opinion that the charge of misrepresentation respecting the
boundary of Howard is not supported. It is quite probable,
as the views of the 'appellant and of his family were directed
to the adjoining place called Riddle's as well as to Howard,
places then occupied by.the same tenant, that the witness
might not have distinguished exactly between the places, and
might have applied to one, expressions intended for the other.
Mr Cathcart himself may also have confounded the conversations with each other.
The answer also charges the complainant with misrepresentation as to the fitness of Howard for an academy, and as to
the value of the property.
So far as its fitness for an academy depended on situation or
on the buildings, Mr Cathcart was capable of deciding for
himself, and must-have acted on his own judgment-so far as
it depended on health, the testimony in the cause proves
that general reputation was in its favour, and that fami-

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[Cathcart et al. vs. Robinson.]

lies from the "ity sometimes repaired-to it for the sake of
health. Mr Robinson's representation was mrere matter of
opinion, and the record affords-no reason for believing it was
not his real opinion. It is true that Mr Cathcart's family,
after settling on the place, was sick ry; but this circumstance
may have been produced by other causes, and is not certainly
attributable to the place..
On the subject-of yalue, the answer charges Mr Robinson,
not with any positive assertion that the property was worth c
specific sum, but that it had costhim more than eight thouiand
dollars, and that he had held it at ten thousand dollars. The
assertion that the property cost him more than eight thousand
dollars is proved, and that he had held the 'property at ten
thousand dollars is not disproved. MrPeake deposes that he,
sometime in 1822, was engaged in a negotiation with Mr Robinson, the object of which was the exchange of some property
in Alexandria for Howard. He has an indistinct impression
that the cash value set upon Howard at that time was five
thousand aollars, but does not know that it was derived from
Mr Robinson. This witness certainly does not prove at what
price Mr Robinson had held Howard; and we think that misrepresentation is not justly imputable to him.
The second objection to a specific performance is the excessive price at which it was sold.
Without recapitulating the testimony on this point, we can
say it proves quits sitisfactorily that Howard was sold beyond-

its real value at the time. If the witnesses are to be believed,
and there is no reason to doubt them, five thousarid dollars
would have been a full price for it. But Mr Robinson had
given more for it and might estimate it himself higher than it
was estimated by others. The value of real property had
fallen. Its futurm fluctuation was matter of speculation. At
any rate, this excess of price over value, if the contract be
free from imposition, is not in itself sufficient to prevent a decree for a specific performance.
But, though it will not, standing .alone, prevent a court of
chancery from enforcing a contract, it is an ingredient which,
associated with others, will contribute to prevent the interference of a court of equity. We must bear it in mindivhile con-

SUPREME COURT.
[Cathcart et al. vs. Robinson.]

sidering the next objection made by the laintiffs in error to
the decree of the circuit court.
Mr Cathcart alleges in his answer, that at the time of executing the articles of agreement,* he explicitly and peremptorily refused to insert the sum of twenti thousand dollars,
which the complainant had proposed as a. penalty for the nonfulfilment of the agreement; and also the sum of ten thousand
dollars which was afterwards proposed: that he then refused
to agree to any large penalty, assigning as his reason that he
had been long in the service of government, and was then an
applicant for an appointment, that he might be sent abroad or
to some other part of the United States, when it would be more
for his interest to pay the forfeiture than to complywith the contract " And he positively avers that the sum of one thousand
dollars was inserted with the full belief on his part that he
might either take the property at the stipulated price or pay
the said sum, at his option; and that the agreement was executed by said complainant with full knowledge that such was
the belief and understanding of this defendant"
Mr Cathcart has been uniform in declaring that this was
the understanding with which he executed the agreement.
James Hutton, a subscribing witness, deposes; "cthat while
Cathcart was drawing the articles in form, from notes which
had been prepared by Robinson, he was interrupted by a remark made by one of the parties, the deponent does not recolIect which, suggesting the propriety of providing for the payment of a pecuniary forfeiture in the event of a non-performance of the. stipulations of the agreement by either of the par:
ties. The said Cathcart rpfe-red to the said Robinson to say
how much th6 said penalty should be, to which the said Robinsonanswered, 'he did rot care how much, it made no difference to him, or words to that amount, and added twenty
thousand -dollars. To this. the said Cathcart decidedly and
promptly objected and refused to accede to, declaring it to
be entirely too much, and assigned as the reason for his objection, that he had passed a large part of his life in the public
serVice, was then endeavouring to, and had expectation of being again employed; in which case it njight become more to
his advantage to give up the place; that the expected employ-

JANUARY TERMI 1ssi.
[Catheart et al. vs. Robinson.]

ment might be such as indeed to justify and enable him to. pay
the smaller penalty if he found it necessary or expedient to
violate the agreement, though it should ndt be such as to
enable him to pay the largdr one. He then stipulated one
thousand dollars as the amount of the penalty, to which the
said Robinson acceded, under (as it clearly appeared to the
witness,) a full understanding of the privilege of relinquishment reserved by the said Cathcart on the payment of the
penalty of one thousand dollars as aforesaid; which said sum
of one thousand dollars was inserted as the amount of the penalty in the articles of agreement, which *ere then and there (as
before declared) made out in duplicates and signed by the
said Cathcart and Robinson as parties thereto, and by myself
and another person (now deceased) as witnesses thereto."
This testimony was first given by Hutton in July 1824, in
the form of an ex parte affidavit; and was afterwards verified
by a deposition.
Miss Amelia H. Cathcart deposes to the truth of the statement made in the affidavit of James Hutton.
Charles William Cathcart was passing sometimes in and
sometimes out of t~le ron, while the parties were reducing
the agreement to form, but recollects perfectly that J.* L.
Catheart, Sen. objected to the penalty of twenty thousand dollars; and said if the penalty was more than ones thousand dollars he would not make any agreement with Mr Robinson.
James L. Cathcart, Jun. deposes to'the declaration of his
father, that unless the penalty was made small, and such as he
could pay; he would make no agreement whatever, because
he expected to get some appointment soon; and, if in that case
he relinquished the agreement, Mr Robinson would receive at
the rate of five hundred dollars a year for his place. He would
agree to pay a penalty of 'one thousand dollars, but nothing
more; and if Mr Robinson did'not agree to this sum, he would
break off the negotiation. Mr Robinson then agreed .to this
proposal.
If these witnesses are entitled to any credit, if they have not
concurred in fabricating conversations which never took place,
Mr Cathcart signed the agreement in the full belief that he
might relieve himself from it by paying tho penalty. This
belief was. openly expressed, was communicated to Mr RobinVOL. V..-2 K

SUPREME COURT.
[Catbcart et al. vs. -Robinson.]

son, and the penalty was reduced, by consent, to one thousand
dollars, on the condition on 'which alone Mr Cathcart would
agree to sign the contract.
The credibility of this testimony has been attacked, and it
must be admitted that it appears under circumstances not entirely free from suspicion. It would have been more satisfactory had the depositions been all taken in the usual manner;
but the reputation of all the witnesses stands unimpeached, and
the conduct of Mr Robinson has no tendency to discredit them.
Mr Cathcart's refusal to execute the contract was founded
in part on the alleged misrepresentations of Mr Robinson, bht
chiefly on the right, reserved expressly when he signed the
agreement, of relieving himself from it by the payment of the
penalty. This right was asserted in terms, and accompanied
by a statement of circumstances, which might be expected to
induce Mr Robinson to controvert the fact if it was untrue.
It does not appear that he has ever controverted it.
In the conversation which took place with Mr Mason,
when, as the attorney of Mr Robinson, he called on Mr Cathcart to complete the transaction by executing the papers which
had been prepared for the purpose, this objection was fully
and strongly stated; and the answer of Mr Mason was, that he
mistook the law, and that it was advisable for him to consult
counsel upon the subject. After consulting counsel, Mr Cathcart addressed a letter to Mr Mason, as the agent of Mr Robinson. In this letter he states at large his objections to the
completion of the contract. On this subject he says, c when
the penalty of the agreement was in discussion, Mr Robinson
proposed to make it double the amount of the purchase, i. e.
sixteen thousand dollars. This I objected to in toto, and before the subscribing witnesses and a number of the members
of my family, for the agreement Was made. in my house; I
assigned as my reason for objecting to so heavy a penalty, that
I had been in public service for many years, and was'a candidate for an appointment" under government. That it might
happen that I would be sent abroad, or to some other part of
the country; when, in that case, it would be more to my interest to forfeit' the penalty than to comply with the terms of
the agreement; and under the impression.that Mr Robinson
might either reassume possession, or that I might cancel the

JANUARY TERM iS31.
[Caticart et al. vs. Robinson.]

ajgreement by paying the penalty, it was agreed to make it one
thousand dollars; and the last time Mr Robinson was at my
house, he acknowledged that he verily believed that I was
under the above impression when I signed the agreement.
Does, then, Mr Robinson really wish to take advantage of ny
supposed ignorance, knowing it at the time? I trust not."
This letter was of course transmitted, to Mr Robinson, and
returned by him to Mr Mason, .with some remarks on it-r6specting the price at which Howard had been sold, and respecting his own propositions to Mr Cathcart. No notice i
taken of what is said respecting the penalty. A charge, which
might be expected to be repelled with some indignation if untrue, is passed over in total silence. The letter, with the remarks of Mr Robinson, is annexed to the deposition of Mr
Mason.
John B. B. Carden, to a question propounded by the plaintiff
in error, answers, that in the latter end of June, oy beginning
of July-1824, he met Mr Robinson near Alexandria, and was
informed by him that he had secured all the money Mr Cathcart had in the treasury; but as that was not enough, he would
have it, Howard, put up to sale ana buy it in himself. "I
suggested to Mr Robinson (continues the witness) the difficulty on account of the conveyance to Mrs Cathcart and children, to which Mr Robinson replied, that he had it safe enough,
that he bad not seen the -thousand dollars, but that he knew
how to manage it."
These circumstances taken together satisfy the court not only
that Mr Cathcart signed the agreement, believing that it left
him at liberty to relieve himself from it by paying the penalty, but that Mr Robinson knew how he understood it. Mr
Cathcart insisted on reducing the penalty to one thousand,
dollars, that, should a change of circumstances make itadvantageous, he might be enabled to relieve himself from it by the
payment of a sum he thought within his resources. -Heinsisted on this as the condition on which alond he would sign
the agreement. He stated-the object for which the condition
was demanded. Mr Robinson,.without hinting that the object
would not be obtained by the condition, assented to it, and the.
agreement was signed.
If this be a correct view of the transaction, it is not simply

SUPREME COURT.
[Cathcart et al. vs. Robinson.]

an instrument executed by a person who mistakes its legal
effect, as it would have been had it been prepared with a pe.nalty.of"one thousand dollars, and 'silently, executed by*Mr
Cathcart in the full conViction that' it left him the option to
perform the contract or to pay the penalty. It is something
more. The assent of Mr Robinson to this reduction of the
penalty, when demanded avowedly for the purpose of enabling
Mr Cathcart to terminate his obligation bypaying it, is doing
something active on his part to give effect to theimistake, and
turn it to his advantage. It is in some measure co-operating
with Mr Cathcart in the imposition he was practising on
himself.
Had Mr Robinson induced Mr Cathcart to sign this agreement by suggesting that in point of law he might relieve himself from it by paying the penalty, a court of equity would
not aid him in an attempt to avail himself of the imposition.
The actual case is undoubtedly not of so strong a character.
No untruth has been suggested- -but if Mr Robinson knew
that Mr Cathcart was mistaken, knew that he was entering
into obligations much more onerous than he intended, that
gentleman is not entirely exempt from the imputation of suppressing the truth.
This is not, a bill to set aside the contract. Mr Cathcart
does not ask the aid of equity. He asks that the parties may
be left to their legal rights, or that the contract shall be enforced no farther than as avowedly understood at the time of
its signature.
The difference between that degree of unfairness which will
induce a court of equity to interfere actively by setting aside
a contract,. and that which will induce a court to withhold its
aid, is well settled. 10 Ves. 292. 2 Coxe's Cases in Chancery, 77.' It is said that the plaintif must come into court
with clean hands; and that a defendant may resist a bill for
specific performance, by showing'that under the circamstances
the plaintiff is not entitled to the relief he asks. Omission or
mistake in,the agreement; or that it Is unconscientious or unreasonable; or that there has been concealment, misrepresentation, dr any unfairness; are enumerated among the causes
which will induce the court to refuse itA aid. I Mad.
Chabeery, 405. If to any unf- irness a great inequality be-

JANUARY- TERM 1831.
[Cathcart et al. vs. Robinson.]

tween price and value be added, a court of chancery will
not afford its aid. 2 Coxe's Cases in .Chancery, 77. In
the case at bar this inequality is very considerable. This
inequality gives importance to the mistake under which
the purchaser .executed the agreement; a mistake to which
the vendor contributed, by consenting to reduce the penalty to the sum which the vendee said he could pay should
circumstances make it his interest to absolve himself from the
contract by its payment.
But, as the plaintiff in error has entirely failed in supporting
that part-of his answer which alleges such misrepresentation
on the part of the vendor as would turn him out of court; as
his whole equity consists in a right to surrender the land and
pay the stipulated penalty, instead of performing the whole
agreement by receiving the land and paying the purchase money; as he insists upon this as being the truespirit of the contract, according to his understanding of it, which understanding
was countenanced by the conduct of the vendor at the time;
every principle of equity and fair dealing requires that he
should do what he claims th right to do, in order to relieve
him'self from the still more onerous pressure of a contract into
which he has voluntarily entered. He ought to pay the penalty, as the 4quitable condition on which alone he.can be permitted to resist a decree for a specific performance of the whole.
It has been argued by the defendant in error that the subsequent conduct of Mr Cathcart; his eagerness to take possession of the property; his apparent satisfaction with it; hio
willingness to complete the transaction by executing the ne-"
cessary papers, and receiving the deeds, as was manifested
in his conversations with Mr Jones; his entire silence on the
subject of relinquishing the contract and paying the penalty
until June 1823, when his"scheme of an academy had failed,
and when. he communicated this intention to Mr Mason,. the
attorney of Mr Ro~inson; his fAilure even then to tender the
penalty; are circumstances which ought to deprive him of this
defence:
We do not attach quite so much importance to these circumstances ag is attached to them by the defendant in error.
Undoubtedly Mr Cathcart was satisfied with his contract
on the 10th of September 1822, or he would not have entered

SUPREME COURT.
[Cathcart et al. as-. Robinson.]

into it. Yet at this time he stipulated, as he supposed, for
the right to relieve himself from it on the payment of one
thoijsand dollars. The time during which this privilege
should continue was not fixed. By what is it to be limited?
The mind can prescribe no other limitation than while the
contract continued executory. Had the parties executed the
contract without inserting this privilege, it must have been
terminated; but while the contract remained executory, it retained its original force, unless expressly or impliedly released.
The failure of Mr Cathcart to tender the penalty would have
some weight was it not accounted for by the circumstances of
the case. It was perfectly understood that Mr Robinson
would not receive it, and the only fund fi'om which it could
have been raised, the Spanish claim, was bound to him. The
court therefore does not perceive in this conduct of Mr Cathcart sufficient cause to overrule his defence.
It has been urged by his counsel that if the penalty only
can be decreed, this bill ought to be dismissed because the
penalty might have beea recovered at law.
We do not think so. The right of a vendor to come in to
a court of equity to enforce a specific performance is unquestionable. Such subjects are within the settled and common
jurisdiction of the court. It'is equally well settled that if the
jurisdiction attaches, the court. will go on to do complete justice, although in its progress it may decree on a matter which
was cognizable at law. Mr Robinson could not have sued for
the penalty at law without abandoning his right to enforce the
contract of sale. -He could not le required or expected to do
this. Consequently he came properly into a court of equity,
and the court ought to do. him justice. It ought to direct Mr
Cathcart to pay that which he says was to be, according to his
understanding, a substitute for the principal subject'of the
contract. In addition to these considerations, the application
to this court to subject the Spanish fund to the claim is unquestionably proper.
Mr Cathcart also attempts tc- oppose some equitable sets-off
to this penalty, the money he paid to Wilbar to obtain immediate possession, and the expenses incurred for repairs which
Wilbar ought to have made.
Mr Robinson did not undertake to deliver possession until

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[Cathcart et al. -s. Robinson.3

the 1st of January 1823. The right of Wilbar to retain the
premises to that time was perfectly understood. If Mr Cathcart's impatience to obtain immediate possession induced him
to make a very improvident and losing contract with Wilbar,
it furnishes no pretext for throwing that loss on Mr Robinson.
If then Mr Cathcart ought not to be coerced to receive the
deed for Howard and to pay the purchase money, because he
believed, and 'as encouraged by Mr Robinson to believe,
that he had introduced a clause into the agreement which
would permit him to abandon the contract on the payment pf
one thousand dollars, he caniot be permitted to abandon it,
but on the payment of that sum; and the court ought, when
it refuses to compel him to pay the purchase"money to decree
him to pay the penalty, if Mr Robinson shall prefer receiving
it to a resort to his remedy at law.
A point of considerable importance to the parties remains
to be considered.
Mr Cathcart, in the contract of the 10th of September 1822,
agreed to secure the payment of the. purchase money for.
Howard by the execution of a deed of trust "on the total
amount of his claim on the United States, under the provisions
o the 11th article of the treaty with Spain." If the penalty
be substituted for the purchase money, it should certainly retain the protection of the same security. But the plaintiff in
error alleges that he had disabled himself from complying with
this part of the contract, by his previous conveyance of this
fund to John Woodside in trust for Mrs Cathcart and her issue.
This being a voluntary conveyance is, at this day, held by
the courts of England to be absolutely void under the statute of 27 Elizabeth, against a subsequent purchaser, even
although he purchased with notice, 1 Mad. Ch. 271, 18 Ves.
110. 2 Taunton, 523. 'Their decisions do not maintain
that a transaction, valid at the time, is rendered invalid by
the subsequent act of the party. They do not maintain
that the character of the transaction is changed, but that
testimony afterwards furnished may prove its real character.
The subsequent sale of the -property is carried back to the
deed of settlement, and considered as proving that deed to
have been executed with a fraudulent intent to deceive a subsequent purchaser

SUPREME COURT.
[Cathcart et at. vs. Robinson.]

The statute of Elizabeth is in force in this district. The
rule, which has been uniformly observed by this court in construing statutes, is to adopt the construction made by the courts
of the country by whose legislature the statute was enacted.
This rule may be susceptible of some modification, when applied to British statutes which 're adopted in any'of these
states. By adopting them they beciome our own as entirely as
if they had been enacted by the legislature of the state. The
received construction in England at the time they are admittel to operate in this country, indeed to the time of our separation from the British empire, may very properly be considered as accompanying the'statutes themselves, and forming an
integral paA of them. But -however we may respect subsequent decisions, and certainly they are entitled to great respect, we do not admit their absolute authority. If the English
courts vary their construction of a ptatute which is common to
the two countries,,-we do not hold ourselves bound to fluc.,
tuate with them.
At the commencement of the American revolution, the construction of the statute of 27 Elizabeth seems not to have been
settled. The leaning of the courts towards the opinion that
every voluntary settlement would be deemed void, as to a subsequent purchaser, was very strong;'and few cases are to he
found in which such conveyance has been sustained. But
these decisions seem to have been made on the principle that
such subsequent sale furnished a strong presumption of a fraudulent intent; which threw on the person claiming under the
settlement the burthen of proving it from. the settlement itself,
or from extrinsic circumstances, to be made in good faith: rather than as furnishing conclusive evidence not to be repelled
by any circumstances whatever.
There is some contrariety and some ambiguity in the old
cases on the'subject: but this'court. conceives thAt the modern
decisions establishing the absolute conclusiveness of a subsequent sale to Ilx fraud on a family settlement, made without
valuable consideration, fraud not to be repelled by any circum.;
stances whatever-go beyond the construction which prevailed at the American revolution,. and dught not to be followed.
The universally received doctrine of that day unquestiona-

JANUARY TERM 1831.

281

[Cathcart et a]. vs. Robinson.]

bly went as far as this. A subsequent sale, without notice, by
a person -who had made a settlement not on valuable consideration, was presumptive evidence of fraud; which threw on
those claiming under. such settlement the burthen of proving
that it was made bona fide. This- rineiple, therefore, according to the uniform course of tns court, must be adopted in
construing the .statute of 2.7 Elizabeth as itiipplies to'this case.
The strong presumption of fraud arising from the sabseqent conveyance to Mr Robinson, is not repelled by a single
circumstance. On the, cgntrary,_all the circumstances which
can be collected from the record come in aid of it.
The conveyance to Mr Woodside, so far as we can judge
from the evidence in the cause, contained all, or nearly all
the property of Mr Catlicart. He continued to act- as the
owner of it. His correspondence shows that he offered even
the lots in Washington for sale, and he undoubtedly appeared
as the absolute owner of this Spanish claim. His negotiations
with Mr Robinson respecting it appear to have been carried
on openly; and there is no reason to believe that they were
unknown to his family or his .trustee. The agreement by
which he" bound it to Mr Robinson was signed at his own
house, in the midst of his family; and his want of power over
the subject was never suggested. It is also'worthyof observation, that Mrs Catheart, in January 1824, after the determination to relinquish the contract for Howard, addressed a-letter
to the trustee requesting him to make'an assignment of this
claim for the purpose ofpaying debts contracted by Catheart.
We think, therefore, that under all the cifcumstances of this
cade, the conveyance to John Woodside, on the 10th of November 1818, in trust for Mrs-Catheart-and her children, does
not withdraw the property in question from the claim of Mfr
Robinson, he being a subsequent purchaser without notice.
It,is the opinion of this court-that the circuit court erred in
decreeing the defendant in that court to receive a conveyance
for the tract of land in the proceedings mentioned, called Howard, and to pay therefor the purchase money stipulated in the
contract dated the 10th of September 1822; and that so much
of the said decree ought to be reversed: and that the cause be
'remanded to that court, with instructions to reform the said
decree so far as to direct the defendant to pay the' penalty of
VOL. V.-2 L

SUPREME COURT.
vs.Robinson.]
[Cathcart et al.

one thousand dollars with interest thereon from the time the
money due from the government, and enjoined by order of
that court, was directed to be placed out at interest, and to direct {fhe title papers filed in the cause' by the- complainant to
be re-delivered to him. But if the complainant shall prefer
to pursue his remedy at law he is to be at liberty to dismiss
'is bill without costs and without prejudice.
Mr Justice BALDwIN d'saented as to the construction of the
statute of 27 Elizabeth. On the 'other points he agreed with
the court.
This-cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from, %thecircuit court of the United States for the District of Colam;bia, holden in and for the county of Washington,
and was argued by counsel; on considerationwhereof,'it is the
thpinion of this court that the circuit court erred in -decreeing
the defendant in that court to receive a conveyance for the
tract'of,laud in the tiroeedings mentioned, called Hovardand to pay 'therefor the purchase money stipulated in the contract dated the 10th of September 1822, and that so much of
the said decree ought to be reversed: and'that the cause be remanded to that court with instructions to reform the said decree so far as to direct the defendaht to p~y the penalty of one
thousand dollars with interest thereon from the time the money
due from the government and enjoined by order of that court
was directed.to be placed out at interest, and to direct.the
title, papers filed inthe cauge by the complainant to be re-delivered to him.. But if the complainant shall prefer to pursue
his remeidy at law, he is to be atliberty to dismiss' his bill
without costs and without prejudice. Whereupon it is ordered, adjudged,, and decreed -bythis. court that the circuit couit
erred in. decreeing the defendant in that court to receive a
conveyance for the tract of land in the.proceedihgs mebtioned,
.called Howard, and to pay thdrefor the purchase money stipulated'in the contract dated the 10th of"September 1822: -and
that so much of the .said decree be zd the same is hereby reversed, and that this cause be, and the'same is hereby remandd
to the' said circuitl"ourt, with instructionsto reform the said

JANUARY TERM 1831.

283

[Cathcart et a]. vs.-Robinson:]

decree so far as to direct thb defendant to pay the penalty of
one thousand dollars with interest thereon from the time the
mongy due from the government, and enjoined by order of
that court, was directed to be placed out at interest, and to direct the title papers filed in the cause by the complainant to
be re-delivered to him. But if the complainant shall prefer
to pursue his remedy at law, he is to-be at liberty to dismiss
his bill without costs and-without prejudice, *

