JANUARY TERM 1831.

THE MAYOR, ALDERMEN AND INHABITANTS OP NEW ORLEANS, APPELLANTS vs. THE UNITED STATES, APPELLEES.
The parol evidence given on the hearing of a petition in ther district court ofthe
United States for the, eastern district of Louisiana, in the :natite of an equity

proceeding, should have been reduced to writing, and appear in the record.
THIS was an appeal from the district court of the United
States for the eastern district of Louisiana.
In that court the United States filed a petition stating:
That the mayor of the city of New Orleans, in pursuance of
an ordinance of the city council, had advertisdd for sale cer-.
tain lots therein described: that by virtue of the treaty of ces-.
sion, all vacant lots belonged to the United States: that those
lots were vacant: that the city of New Orleans had never received ,ny grant'for them, "unless in virtue of *the 3d section of the act of congress .of the 3d March 1807, entitled
' An Act respecting claims to land in the territories of Orleans
and Louisiana,' which is denied: whereupon, and inasmuch,
as the said attempts of the said city council to sell the said
lands as private property, is an evasion of, andt&espas upon
the rightful dominion and possession of the United States in
the premises:" they pray that the defendants cmay be
cited to appear and answer this petition; and that in the mean
while they may be inhibited by injunction from persisting
in the said attempt; and after due proceedings had, that it may
be ordered, adjudged and decreed, that the said injunction be
made perpetual: and your petitioner, in the name, and on. the
behalf aforesaid, prays all other and further relief, that equity
and the nature of the case may requirem"
On this petition an injunction ywas granted, issued and served;
inhibiting the sale of the lots.
The defendants, by their amended answer, deny the right
of the petitioners, and set up title in themselves. 1st. Under a
royal cedule, granted by the king of Spain. 2. Under an
act of congress of the 3d March 1807. 3d. As alluvial soil
formed in front of the city, which, as they aver, is by the
laws of the land the property of the city without any grant;
VOL. V.-3 G

SUPREME COURT.
[Mayor, &c. of New Orleans vs. The United States.]

and they pray that the cause may be tried by a jury. The
plaintiffs filed a general replication, not controverting the.right
demanded of a trial by jury.
The defendants in support of their plea of title, file and
produce the following documents: 1. The royal cedule. 2.
The law of the United States granting 600 yards round the
fortifications to the corporation. 3. Sundry plans, showing
that the premises were contained within the boundaries of the
'land granted by those acts, and-were, moreover, alluvial soil.
They also examined witnesses, but their depositions wee not
taken in writing.,
The judge considering the cause as one.of. equity jurisdiction, proceeded to hear the cause, and decreed that the injunction should be made perpetual. And as the oral testimony
had not been reduced to writing, thejudge, under the 19th
section of the judiciary act, gave a statement of his recollection of the facts.
From this decree the defendants appealed.
Mr. Livingston, for the appellants; Mr. Berrein, attorney
general, for the United States.
Among other causes of reversal, assigned by Mr. Livingston,
was the following:
That the court ought to have directed the depositions of the
witnesses to have been taken in writing, and cannot now supply the defect by a statement from the judge's notes.
Upon inspecting the record, the court, upon the principles
laid down in Conn vs. Penn. 3 Wheat. Rep. 424, ordered
the decree to be reversed.
In the case of Conn vs. Penn, the court held, that in appeals
from the circuit courts in chancery cases, the parol testimony
which is heard at the trial in the circuit court, ought to appear
in the record.

