SUPREME COURT.

JouL R. LIvINGSTON,

PLINTIVF IN ERROR VS. MOSES SMITE,

DEFENDANT IN ERROR.

Insufficient, and defective pleading.
A sheriff, having a writ of foreign attachment issued according to the hws of
New Jersey, proceeded to levy the same on the property ot the defendant in
the attachment. After the attachment was issued) the plalnliff took the
promissory notes of the defendant for his debt payahl at a inture time. bit
no notice of this adjustment ofthe claim of the plaintiffiwas given to tht sheriff,
nor was the suit on which the attachment issued discontinued. Th defendant
brought replevin for the property attached, the sheriff having refused to redeliver it.

Held, that the sheriffwas not responsible for levying the attachment

for the debt so satisfied, or for refusing to redeliver the property attached.
A previous attachment issued under the law of New Jeisey of property as the
right of another, could not divest the interest of the actual owner of the property in the same; so as to prevent the shwitfattachiing the same property under a writ of attachment issued for a debt of the same actual owner.

ERROR to the circuit court of the district o1 New Jersey.
In the circuit court of the. United States for the district of
New Jersey, John R. Livingston instituted an action of replevin against Moses Smith, the defendant in error, "for that
he, Moses Smith, on the 2d of November 1826, at the
township of Newark in the county of Essex and -tate of New
Jersey, took the goods and chattels of the plaintiff in the replevin," "to wit, the steamboat Sandusky, her engines, &c.,"1
and unjustly detains them, &c.
To the declaration, the defendant, Smith, pleaded property
in Robert Montgomery Livingston, at the time of the taking;
and also made cognizance or avowry as follows:
First. 'That the goods and chattels mentioned in the declaration, Were taken -by him on the 4th November 1826, as sheriff
of the county of Essex, under a writ of attachment issued out
of the court of common pleas of the county, at the suit of
James W. Higgins against John R. Livingston; and that
the goods were detained by him until they were replevied by
the plaintiff in this suit, on'the 13th of November -1826, be-'
fone the return gf the writ.
Second. That, as sheriff, he took the same goods and chattels on the 2d November 1826, under a like writ of attach-

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[Livingston'vs. Smith.]

ment at the suit of James W. Higgins against Robert M. Livingston; in whose possession they then were.
To the first cognizance, the plaintiff, John R. Livingston, pleaded that after the taking of the goods, and before the
commencement of this suit, on the 29th November 1826, on
accounting with Higgins, he was found indebted to him in the
sum of eight hundred and ninety-six dollars, the debt for which
the attachment had issued; and on the 1st of April 1827, he tendered to Higgins the said sum of money, which he received in
full satisfaction of the same; and upon the return of the attaclrment there were no further proceedings thereon by Higgins
or by any other person; and by means thereof, according to
the practice of the court, the writ of attachment was ended, &c.
The second plea stated, that before the commencement of
this suit, and before the return of the attachment, on the 29th
November 1826,he, John R. Livingston, delivered to Higgins,
the plaintiff. in the attachment, two promissory notes for the
whole amount of the debt due to him, payable at three and
four months, which were paid by him according to the tenor
thereof.
The third plea set forth, that before the appointment of any
auditors under the attachment, on the 9th of January 1828,
the plaintiff, Higgins, voluntarily discontinued the same of record.
Fourth :plea. That the goods, at the time they are supposed to be attached as the property of John R. Livingston, at the suit of Higgins, aiid until they were replevied,
were in the possession of the defendant as sheriff under an attachment against Robert M. Livingston at the suit of the same
Higgins.
To the second cognizance, the plaintiff, John R. Livingst6n, pleaded,
First. That the property, when attached, was not in tlie
possession of the said liobert M. Livingston, as is alleged by
the said second cognizance.
Second. That the property, when attached, was in-John R.
Livingston; and traverses the property being in Robert M.
Livingston.
To the firsfplea to the first cognizance, the defendant, Smith,
demurred, gad showed for cause,

SUPREME-COURT.
[Livingston vs. Smith.]

First. That the tender to, and acceptance by Higgins,
of the money in satisfaction of the debt, after the commencement of the action of .replevin, and before the attachment
was discontinued. Second, that the plea is argumentative.
To the second pla .to the first cognizance, the defendant,
Smith, also demurred, and showed for cause, First. That the
notes stated in the plea were to be in satisfaction of the debt;
yet it is not shown by the plea that the notes were paid off
before the commencement of the suit. Second. That it does
not appear by the plea, that the plaintiff was entitled to a return or redelivery of the goods. Third. That the matters in
ihe plea are immaterial.
To the third plea to the first cognizance, the defeildant demurred, and showed for cause, First. Because it appeared
that when th6 replevin was sued out, the attachment was in
full force. And second. That the matters set forth therein do
not maintain the count. To the fourth plea there was a general demurrer.
To the first plea to the second cognizance the defendant demurred, and showed for cause, that the matters are unintelligible, uncertain, insufficient, irrelative and informal; and be put
in a general demurrer.
The plaintiff joined in each demurrer.
The case was argued for the plaintiff in error by Mr Frelinghuysen; and by Mr Coxe for the defendant.
Mr Frelinghuysen said, the principal question in the case
was, whether the creditors of Robert Montgomery Livingston could set up the attachment against John R. Livingston which has been discontinued ; the debt for which it issued
having been paid.
The defence of the sheriff Moses Smith presents two writs
of attachment, one against John R. Livingston, the other
against Robert M. Livingston ; and if he does not justify under one of these writs, the judgment of the circuit court must
be reversed.
The attachment against 'Robert M. Livingston was the
first. It was issued on the 2d of November: and that against
John R. Livingston on the 4th of November.
This constitutes, the first ground of exception. The first

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[Livingston vs. Smitb.]

attachment was a proceeding against the steamboat Sandusky,
alleging her to belong to.Robert M. Livingston. The property was then ,in the custody of the ]aw, to answer to
James W. Higgins, and all the other creditors of the *defendant in the attachment, according to the provisions of 'the
attachment law of New Jersey. James V. Higgins could not
afterwards, on the 4th of November, proceed by attachment
against the same property, under the allegation that it belonged to another person. There would be an inconsistency in
the two proceedings which could not be reconciled. Two
sets of auditors would have the distribution of the proceeds of
the attachment. Revised Laws of New Jersey, 355. In this
view of the ]a%, the attachment against the Sandusky, as the
property of John R. Livingston, was invalid. Cited 3 Mass.
Rep. 289. 5 Mass. 319. 7 Mass. 271. 8 Mass. 246. 1
Shower, 174. 4 T. R. 651. 3 Mass. 295.
2. As to the matters set up under the second attachment,
they canot avail, as that proceeding was at an end by tho adjustment of the claim of the plaintiff in the same.
On the 29th day of November Mr Livingston accounted
with James V. Higgins, and gave him two notes for the balance due to hinr on a final settlement. All this was done'before the replevin issued, and it is a full and sufficient answer
to the defence set up by the sheriff.
The law of New Jersey requires that the debt for which
the attachment issues shall be due and payable at the time of
the issuing of the writ. The taking of the notes payable at
a future and distant date, was an extinguishment of the right
to continue the attachment. It was a withdrawal of the suit.
It is not necessary that there should have been a formal dis'Archbold'Ts.Practice,"
continuance. 2 Chitty on Plead. 246.
123, 329, 330. It was not in the powcr of Mr Livingston t6
disconitinue, or compel the plaintiff to do so. All that.was
in his power he did, by takidg away the right of the-plaintiff
to prosecute the suit.
3. What is the operation of the writ of attachment agdinst
Robert Montgomery Livingston?
It is said this attachment put the property in the custody of
the law; and that it must remain so. This principle applies
to the defendant in the attachmebt, but not to third persons,

SUPREME COURT.
'Livlngston -vs. Smith.]
4. As to the objection that replevin will only apply where
there is a tortious taking. It is admitted that this is the law
in some of the states, but.'not in all. In Massachusetts relevin-is a remedy for a lawful taking, where the detainer is
contrary to law. 15 Mass. 359. 16 Mass. 147. 17 Mass.
606. 14,Johns. 84. Kirby, 275. This is also the law in
Pennsylvania. 1 Dall. 156. If the sheriff in an attachment.
against A. takes the property of B. he is a tortious taker. 14
Johtis. 84. And these cases are in accordance with the terms
of the law of New Jersey, which authorizes replevin for a
wrongful detainer. I Revised Laws of New Jersey, 212. In
Virginia, replevin would be the appropriate remedy. 1 Wash.
Rep. 92. Cited also 3B1. Com. 145,151. Cited also, I Paine,
620. 20 John. 465. The writ of attachment being irregular
against John R. Livingston, the execution of it was a tortious
taking by the sheriff; no authority beidig lawfully delegated
to him for the purpose. The sheriff's jury,' which by the attachment law may be called by- the sheriff on a question of
property, is for the protection of the officer. If the property
is. found to belong to the defendant in the attachment, it does
rot preclude the claimants from disputing the right of the defendants; but the sheriff is protected from vindictive damages.
This has been th&uniform decision of the state courts of New
Jersey. The law of' New Jersey corresponds with the principles. of the English decisions. Rev. Laws of N. Jersey,
357, ยง 14. Cited also 2 H. B1. 47. 3 Maule and Selwyn,
175
6 T, R. 88.
Mr Coxe, for the defendant in error; made the following
points: First. The matters contained
the several pleas,
pleaded to the first cognizance, do not constitute any bar to the
same. Second. A defendant, whose goods have been taken
in execution, or under an attachment against him, can never
have replevin against the sheriff for the goods so taken.
Third. Replevin 'will not lie, except in cases of tortious or
wrongful taking; whereas, in this case, the goods were
taken underthe authority of a court of competent jurisdiction,
and were at the time in the chstody of the law. Fourth.
Admitting, however, that an officer, who has lawfully-seized
goods, may, by a subsequent abuse of them, or by unlawfully
detaining them, become a trespasser ab inilioq,.and so liable

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[Livingston vs. Smith.]

to trespass or replevin, yet in this case the plaintiff has no
such ground of action. Fifth. Payment and satisfaction to
Higgins, the plaintiff in attachment, either before or afte the
return of the writ, would not) under the statute of New Jersey, authorize the sheriff to deliver up the goods, unless the
suit was discontinued of record ; and consequently, until then,
at least, replevin could not be brought. Sixth. Admitting,
however, that after payment and satisfaction to the plaintiff in
attachment, the defendant in attachment might bring replevin
against the sheriff, yet it does not appear by the pleadings
in this case, that any such previous payment was made; but,
on the contrary,. it does appear, that tre writ of replevin was
served on the 30th of November 1826, and the payment to
Higgins was not made till the 1st of April 1827.. Eighth.
Admitting that, after a regular discontinuance of the attachment, the defendant in attachment may have replevin against
the sheriff for his goods, yet in this case the replevin was sued
out on or before the 30th of April 1826, and the attachment
was not discontinued of record until the 7th of January 1828.
As to the pleas to the second .cognizance:
First. Under' the attachment law of New Jersey, good
may be attached, though-not in the possession of the defen
dant in attachment at the tine.
Second. If a stranger claims property in the goods attached, he has a remedy under the fourteenth section of the statute
of New Jersey for the relief of creditors against absent and
absconding debtors.
Third'. A proceeding by attachment in Neiv Jersey is a
proceeding in rem. In such cases, it is the possession and
control of the property that gives jurisdiction t' the court;
and it cannot be deprived of its jurisdiction by a co-ordinate
or concurrent tribunal, proceeding collaterally and taking the
property out of its possession.
Mr Coxe cited 1 Peters's C. C. R. 245. 1 Paine, 620,
625. Gelston vs. Hoyt, 3 Wheat. 312. 3 Dall. 188. Holt,
643. 1 Shower, 174. Gilbert on Re~levin, 166. 1 _Mason,322. 5 Mass. 283. 6 Binn. 2. 21Wheaton'sSelwyn, 896.
10 Johns. 373. 7 Johns. 143. 14 Johns. 84. Bro. Abr.
Replevin, pl. 15, pI. 39, pi.. 36. Roll's Abr. Replevin, B. 2

SUPREME COURT.
[Livingston vs. Smith.]

Mr Justice JOHNSToN' delivered the opinion of the Court.
The facts and merits of this case lie in a very narrow compass.
The action is replevin, sued out of the circuit court of the
United States for the district of New Jersey. The case presented by the pleadings is this.
In the year 1827, one Higgins sued out several attachments in the state court, both
against this plaintiff and one R. M. Livingston. Smith is
sheriff of the state and, as such, on the 2d of November, he arrested a steamboat, as the property of R. M. Livingston; and again, on the 4th of the same month, he seized
the same boat as the property of this plaintiff, J. R. Livings.
ton.
J. R. Livingston, being a citizen of-New York, brings this
iuit in a court of the United States, and counts in the ordinary
form of the declaration in replevin. Smith avows and justifies under the two attachments; and Livingston, in a variety
of replications, seeks to repel this justification:
1. On the plea of payment to the plaintiff in attachment
subsequent to the attachment; but without notice to the sheriff Smith, or any averment of discontinuance other than
what may be gathered from facts stated from which a discontinuance might have been matter of deduction or inference.
This plea is certainly insufficient in matter, and defective
in form.
2. On the plea qoB an accord made prior to the suit; by
which it was agreed~by Higgins to receive certain promissory
notes, which, whenpaid, should be in full satisfaction of the
debt, which notes were duly paid at maturity.'
On this plea there has been some difference of opinion: but
besides that it does not aver an agreement to discontinue, adpiitting that, as against the plaintiff in the attachment, it
would- have been a good defence;. the question still recurs,
can a sheriff, without notice, be responsible for levying an attachment on a satisfie d debt, or for not redelivering the property attached, without a discontinuance, or at least notice, of
the satisfaction? We say nothing of the rights or remedies-of
the defendant in attachment against the plaintiff: the question
here is, whether the sheriff, under such circumstances, is not

JANU.ARY TERM 1831.
[Livingston vs. Smith.]

warranted by his writ in proceeding to act. ' How can he undertake to decide the question of liability betwee n the parties;
or what security has he against the plaintiff, should he act erroneously in not pursuing the* exigehces of his writ? No
question of property is here raised between him and the defendant; for the levy and detention and plea, all affirm the
property to be in the defendant in attachment.
This plea, therefore, makes out. no cause of action.
3. On the plea of a discontinuance of record; but this is obviously and radically insuffipient, since the date of the discontinuance is expressly subsequent to the institution of the suit.
This is admitting that there was no cause of action at the time
of its institution. It does not raise the question whether a subsequent unlawful act may not make the sheriff a trespasser ab
initlo; nor whether replevin, may not be brought for unlawful
detention as well as unlawful taking; since in either case the
cause of action must precede its institution.
4. On the plea that the .goods, when attached as the property of this plaintiff, were in fact in possession of he sheriff
under the attachment against R. M. Livingston, and the levy
made thereon two days previous. But what cause of' actioa
does this make out for this plaintiff? If they were t&h'e property of another, he*has nothing to complain of: and if they
were iis, there was the attachment against himself to justifjr
the taking. A previous attachment, as the right of another,
could not divest his interest; and the property being in the
hands of the sheriff as his bailee, or to his use, could not divest the *heriff of the right to seize or detain it under a writ
against him.
These remarks dispose of the pleas to the first cognizance.
To the second, the plaintiff relies on the pleas,
1. That the property was not at the time of the attachment
levied in the possession of R. M. Livingston.
But this is certainly tendering an immaterial issue; since it
matters not in whose possession the property is found, if the'
taking be otherwise rightful.
2. That the property was his own at the time it was attached as the property of R. M. Livingston, and not the property
of R. M. Livingston. And this plea probably presents the
only question intended by the suit: but unfortunately it comes
VOL. V.-N

SUPREME COURT.
[Livingston vs. Smith.]

embarrassed with circumstances which render it impossible to
consider the merits in this-suit. Had this plaintiff taken measures to disembarrass his case of the attachment against himslf, before he brought suit; the defendant must have met him
upon the question of property. But this plea does noi go to
the whole justification, since, admitting the truth of it, it still
leaves property liable to the attachment against himself
To this must be added a defect in confining, the language of
the -traverse to the interest of R. M. Livingston; since the
right of the plaintiff generally, and not as against R. M. Livingston alone, was. necessary to maintain his action.
These views of the subject render it unnecessary to examine the mere general question made upon the relation in
which-these two courts stand to each other; and we only notice it to avoid any misapprehension that might possibly occur from passing it over unnoticed.
Upon the whole, the majority of the court are of opinion
that the demurrers were rightly sustained; and the judgment
below is affirmed with costs.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the ciTcuit court of the -United States for the
district of New Jersey, and was argued by counsel. On coifsideration whereof, it is considered, ordered and adjudged by
this court that the judgment of the said circuit court in this
cause be and the sam e is hereby affirmed with costs.

