JANUAR,

TERM 1831.

THE Lnvv COURT OF WASHINGTON COUNTY, IN THE DISTRICT
OF COLUMBIA Vs. TENCH RINGGOLD, EsQ. MARSHAL OF
THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
The " act concerning the district of Columbia," passed 3d of March 1801, does
not require the marshal to apply to the district attorney for executions in all
cases of fines levied by the circuit coutt, and make him liable for neglecting to
do so, if no execution issued.
The levy court of Washington county are not entitled to one half of all the fines,
penalties, and forfeitureSimposed by the circuit court in cases at common law,
and under the acts of congress, as well as the acts of assembly of Maryland,
adopted by congress as the law ofthe district of Colunbia.
The district attorney is specially charged with the prosecution of all delinquents
for crimes and offences; and these duties do not end with the judgment or order of the court. He is bound to provide the marshal with all necessary process to carry into execution the judgment ofxthe court. This falls withi* his
general superintending authority over the prosecution.
Interest is not chargeable on money collected by the marshal of the district of
Columbia for fines due to the levy court, the money having been actually expended by the marshal in repairs and improvements on the jail, under the
opinions of the comptroller and atuditor of the treasury department, that these
expenditpres were properly chargeable upon this fund, although that opinion
may not be well founded.

THIS was an appeal from the circuit court of the county of
Washington.
The case was argued by Mr Key for the appellants; and by
Mr Swann for the appellee.
Mr Justice THOMPSON delivered the opinion of the Court.
This was a summary proceeding in the circuit court of the
district of Columbia, on the application of the levy court of
Washington county, against the marshal of the district, to recover their proportion of the fines, forfeitures and penalties
collected, or which it is alleged ought to have been collected,
by the marshal, and paid over to the levy court, under the provisions of the second section of the act of congress, supplementary to the act entitled, "an act concerning the district of
Columbia," passed 3d of March 1801. Butch's Dig. 233.
The account coatalaing the claim on the part'of the plain-

SUPREME COURT.
[The Levy Court of Washington vs. Ringgold.j

tiffs was referred to the auditor to examine and receive testimony thereon, and report to the court. By his first report a
balance of three hundred and sixty-four dollars forty-six cents
was found in favour of the marshal. Exceptions were taken
to this report, and the account was again referred to the auditpr, with directions to disallow eight hundred and fourteen
dollars ninety-five cents, which in the first report had been
allowed for the repairs of the jail; and upon the second report
a balance of six hundred and thirteen dollars thirty-one cents
was found against the marshal.
To this report exceptions were taken by the plaintiffs; but
disallowed by the court; and judgment rendered for the balance
reported by the auditor. Upon which a writ of error has
been brought to this court, and the exceptions taken have been
presented under the following heads:
1. Does not the law require the marshal to apply to the district attorney for executions in all cases of fines levied by the
circuit court, and make him liable for neglecting to do so, if no
execution be issued?
2. Is not the levy court entitled to one half of all the fines,
penalties, and forfeitures imposed by the circuit court in cases
at common law, and under the acts of congress, as well as the
acts of the assembly of Maryland, adopted as the law of this
district by congress?
S. Is the marshal liable to pay interest on the money found
to be due from him to the levy court, and which he has or
ought to have collected and paid over?
The decisions of these questions must depend entirely upon
the acts of congress and the laws of Maryland, which have
been adopted as the law of Washington county in this district.
The act of congress of 1801, before referred to, provides
that th&marshal shall have the sarae power regarding the collection of the fines, and be subject to the-same rules and regulations as to the payment thereof, as the sheriffs of Maryland
are subject to in relation to the same.
The first point turns upon the question whether it was the
marshal's duty to apply to the district attorney for executions;
and his duty to issue them on such application.
The second section of the Maryland act of 1795, ch. 74,
declares, that it shall and may be lawful for the attorney gene-

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[The Levy Court of Washington vs. Ringgold.]

ral of this state, or either of his deputies, ex officio, and -they
are hereby directed and required, on the application of the
sheriffs of the respective counties in this state, to order a writ
or writs of capias ad satisfaciendum to be issued for the recovery of all fines, penalties, and forfeitures, which have or
may hereafter be imposed by any court of record in thisstate,
together with the costs accruing thereon. And by the seventh
section, the sheriffs are made answerable for all fines, penalties,
and forfeitures, imposed by the judgment of any court; where
no writ of execution shall issue for the recovery of such fine,
&c.; unless the sheriff shall make it atpear to the satisfaction
of the treasurer that the party on whom such fine, &c. was
imposed was insolvent and unable to pay the same.
This latter sectioq may well admit of the construction, that
it applies only to cases where the party is committed by order
of the court, without an execution. But if construed inconnexion with the second section, it will still leave the question
open, whether the district attorney was bound on the application
of the marshal to issue a capias ad satisfaciendum in all cases;
and if he was not, it can hardly be pretended that the marshal is
made responsible for not collecting the fine. If this question
rested entirely upon the Maryland laws before referred to,
there would be strong grounds for the conclusion that it was
the duty of the marshal to apply to the district attorney to issue the executions, and that he was bound to issue them accordingly. But the district attorney here derives his authority
from the acts of congress, ana not from the laws of Maryland,
and -his rights and duties are to be collected from those acts;
and although the attorney general in Maryland might have
been bound to issue executions on the application of the sheriff, it does not follow that the district attorney is alike subject
to the orders of the marshal in this respect. It becomes necessary, therefore, to inquire whether the district attorney is
bound to comply with the request of the marshal, if made; and
to issue executions in all cases without exercising his own
judgment on the subject. The act of congress of the. 27th of
February 1801, (Burch, 230), provides for the appointment
of a marshal and a district attorney. The former is to have
within this district the same powers, and perform the same
duties as is by law directed and provided in the case of mar-

SUPREME COURT.
[The Levy Court of Washington vs. Ringgold.]

shals of the United States; a4d the latter is to perform all the
duties requii-ed of the district attornies of the United States:
and by the 35th section of the judiciary act of 1789, (2 L. U.
S. 71), it is enacted, that there shall be appointed in each district, a meet person, learned in-the law, to act as attorney for
the United States ir such district; whose duty it shall be to
prosecute in such district all delinquents for crimes and offences, cognizable under the authority of the United States, &c.
The marshal of this district is put on the same footing, with
respect .to his duties and powers, as" other marshals of the
United States. They are considered as mere ministerial officers, to execute process when put into their hands, and not
made the judges whether such process shall be issued. And
it would require the most clear and explicit provision to
clothe them with stch power, so much out of the ordinary and
appropriate powers and duties of the office. But to give the
marshal authority to demand an execution in all cases, is incompatible with tl, e powers given to the district attorney.
lie is, specially charged with the prosecution of all delinquents
for crimes and offences; and those duties do not end with the
judgment or order of the court. He is bound to provide the
marshal with all necessary process to carry into execution the
judgment of the court. This falls within his general superintending atthority'over the prosecution. And whether an execution shall be issued or not, is more appropriately confided
to the district attorney than it would be to the marshal.
We are- accordingly of opinion, upon the first point, that
the law does not require the marshal to apply to the district
attorney for executions; and that he is not liable for omitting
to do so,
The next question will depend upoa the construction to be
given to tlke second section of the act of congress of the 3d
March .1801, (Burch, 233), which declares, that all fines, penalties and forfeitures accruing under the laws of the states of
Maryland and Virginia, which, by adoption, have become the
laws of this district, shall be recovered. with costs, by indictment, or information in the name of the United States, or
by action of debt, in the name of the United States and of
the informer; one half of which fine shall accrue to the United
States, and the other half to the informer: and the said fine

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[The Levy Court of Washington vs. Ringgold.]'

shall be collected by or paid to the marshal; and one half
thereof shall be by him paid over to the board of commissioners, &c. (the levy court), and the other half to the informer.
There is certainly some obscurity in the language here used,
and the construction is not entirely free from difficulty. And
in this view of the law, various conjectures have been suggested
with respect to the intention of the legislature. It has been
said, that no good reason can be assigned why congress should
have made any discrimination between penalties and forfeitures, affixed by statute to offences, and discretionary fines imposed by the court, in cases at common law. It is not perceived by the court that any good reason does exist for such
discrimination;, but the question is, whether the act 6f congress has made such discrimination. And although the intention of the legislature may be taken into view by the court in
the construction of a statute, where the language is so obscure
and doubtful as to admit of different interpretations, yet we
do not think the act in question falls within this rule.
The inquiry is, what denomination of fines, penalties, and
forfeitures, is referred to in this act. It is more a matter of
description than any thing else; and is to be ascertaindd only
by the act itself. They must be fines, penalties, and forfeittures accruing under the laws of M]aryland, which, by adoption, have become the laws of this district; and which shall be
recovered with costs. This is language appropriate to the
prosecution of a suit or action for some fixed and definite penalty; but is inapplicable to mere discretionary fines, which
may be imposed by the court or not, at its pleasure. But this
is rendered more clear by the direction as to the mode and
form in which such fines, penalties, and forfeitures are to be
recovered. It is to be by indictment or by information, or
by action of debt, in the name of the United States and of
the informer. The fine, forfeiture, dr penalty, must be of
such description that it may be recovered in either of these
modes. If by indictment or information, it must be in the
name of the United States; if by action of debt, it is a quitam
action, in the name of thd United States3 and the informer.
And the disposition of the money, when recovered weuld
seem to leave nb reasonable doubt on this question. One half

SUPREME COURT[The Levy Court of Washington vs. Ringgold.]
is directed to be paid by the marshal to the levy court, and
the other half to the informer; and this distribution applies as
Well to that which is recovered by indictment or information,
as to that which is recovered by action of debt. These provisions are entirely inapplicable to cases where there is no informer, who is to take one half. Those discretionary fines imposed by the -court by way of punishment for common law
offences, cannot fall within the class of fines designated in the
statute; for in such cases there is no informer. In case of a
fine imposed for an assault and battery, for instance, who is
the informer? The law knows of no such character: and no
distribution of the fine could be made as required by the
statute.
There was no error, therefore, in the direction of the court
upon this point.
3. The claim for interest, we think, was properly disallowed.
It appears from the auditor's report, that the money was actually expended by the marshal in repairs and improvements
bn the jail: and that, too, under the opinion of the comptroller and auditor of the treasury department, that these expenditures were properly chargeable upon this fund. And
although that opinion may not be well founded, it would be
unreasonable to charge the marshal with interest; the money
not'having remained in his hands, or been applied to his own
ise: and the appropriation of it having been made under the
sanction of the treasury department, ought to exonerate him
from any charge of negligence, or intentional misapplication
of the money.
The judgment of the circuit court is accordingly affirmed,
'with costs.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the circuit court of the United States for the District of Columbia, holden in and for the county of Washington,
and was argued by counsel: on consideration whereof, it is
.considered, ordered and adjudged by this court, that the judgment of the said circuit court in this cause be, and the same
is hereby affirmed, with costs.

