JANUARY TERM 1831.

OoE, Ex DEMISE OF WILLIAM PATTERSON, PLAINTIPF IN
ERROR VS. ELISHA WINN AND OTAERS, DEFENDANTS IN
ERROR.
An exemplification of a grant of land under the great sqal of the state of Georgia
is, per so, evidence ; without producing or 'accounting for the non-production
of the original. It is a record proof of as high a nature as the original. It is a
recognition, in the most solemn form, by the govemmentitself, of the validity
of its own grant, under its own common seal; and imparts absolute verity, as%
matter of record.
The common law is the law of Georgia,, and the rules of evidence belonging to
it are in force there, unless so far as they have been modified by statute, or
controlled by a settled course of judicial decisions and usage.. Upon the present question it does not appear that Georgia has ever established any rules at
variance with the common law; though it is not improbable that there may
have been, from the'peculiar organization 6f her judicial department, some diVersity in the appilication of thenmin the different circuits of that state; abting
as they do, independent of each other, and without any common appellate
court to supervise their decisions.
There was in farmer times a technical distinction existing on this subject. As
evidence, such exemplifications of letters patent seem to have been generally
deemed admissible: but where in pleading, a profert was made of the letters
patent, there, upon the principles of pleading, the original, under the great
seal, was required to be produced; for a profert could not he of any copy or
exemplification. It was to cure this difficulty that the statutes of 3 Edw. VI.
-ch. 4, and 13 Elizab. ch. 6, were passed, So too the statute of 10 Ann, ch. 18,
makes copics of enrolled deeds of bargain and sale, offered by profert in pleading,
evidence.
These statutes being passed before the emigration of our ancestors, andbeing ap.
plicable to'four situation and in amendment of the law, constitute a part of
our comnij law.
By the laws of Georgia all public grants are required to berecorded in the proper
state )department.
What should be considered proof of the loss of a deed or other instrument to an.
thorise the introduction of secondary evidence?
However convenient a rule established by a circuit court, relative to the intruduction of secondary proof, might be to regulate the general practice of the
court; it could not control the rights of parties in matters of evidence admissible by the general principles of law.

ERROR to the circuit court of the United States for. the
district of Georgia.
This was an action of ejectment brought to May term 1820,
of the circuit court of the United States for the district of
Georgia, to recover a tract of land containing seven thousand
VOL. V.-2 E

SUPREME COUtMr.
[Patterson vs. Wian and otberaj

three hundred acres, lying in that part of the county of Gwinnett, which was formerly a portion of Franklin county.
On the trial at Milledgevillei at November term 1829, the
plaintiff offered in evidence the.copy 9f a grant or patent from
the state of Georgia to Basil Jones, for the land in question,
duly certified, from the original record or register- of grants in
the secretary of state's ocfe, and attested under the great seal
of the §tate. To the admissibility of this evidence, the defendants by their counsel objected, on the ground that the said
exemplification could not be received until the original grant
or patent was proved to be lost or destroyed, orthe non-production thereof otherwise legally explained or accounted for,
according to a rule of the court. This objection the circuit
court susiained, and rejected the evidence; to which decision
the plaintiF"excepted.
The plaintiff then offered: 1. A notice to the defendants
requiring them to produce the original grant or patent for the
land.
2. The affidavit of, the lessor of the plaintiff, William Patterson, sworn to before Theodorick Bland, diatrict judge of
the 1United States for the district of Maryland, on the 9th of
October 1821, deposing, in substance, that he bad'not in his
possession, power, or custody, the said Driginal grant, describing it; and that'he knew not where it was; and -that he had
made diligent search for the same among his papers, and it
could not be found.
3. The deposition of Andrew Fleming, stating at letigth
the inquiries he had made for the papers of Thomas Smyth,
Jun., by whom, as attorney in fact for Basil Jones, this land'had
been conveyed to William Patterson, and the information he
had received of the destruction of these papers.
4. The deposition of Mrs Anna M. Smyth, stating the pursuits -of her late husband, Thomas Smyth, and, the facts and
circumstances leading to .the conclusion, that his papers had
been destroyed.
5. The plaintiff then called a witness who proved that he had
compared the exemplification of the grant or patent aforesaid,
with the register of grants in the office of the secretary of state
of the state of Georgia, and the book or register of surveys,
in'the office of the surveyor gefieril of the said state; and that

JANUARY TERM 1831.
EPatterson vs. Winn and others.]

the exemplification offered was a true copy from, the said register of grants and plats in the said office; zespectiyely.
He further proved, that he had made search for the original
grant or patent, in the said offices; and that the Aame was-not
there to be found.
That he had made application to Mrs Ann Farrar, the relict of Basil Jones. the grantee, who has since intermarried
wmith Francis Farrar, for the said original grant or patent, if
among the papers of her late husband, Basil Jones; and Was
assured by the said Ann and Francis, that there were .no such
papers in their possession.
That the said witness had made application to Gresham
Smyth, the reputed son of Thomas Smyth, Jun. fobt the- said'
original grant, if in his possession; and received, for answer
that his father had died while he was yet young, anal that he
had no papers of his father's in his possession.
The said witness also proved that he.had made diligeni search
among the papers of George Walker, now. and long, since deceased, who, it appeared, had once ,had some of the munfiments of title of the lessor of the plaintiff in'his possessiQnl,-,or
been consulted as counsel; but the said original grant or patent
could not there be-found.
-That the witnesshimself, assisted by the clerk of RAehmorid
superior court, where the, power of attorney from Basil Jones
to 'Thomas Smyth, Jun. was recorded, searched .diligently
through all the papers in the office for thT said ofiginal grant
or patent, without success.
That the said: witness, as: agent of William PattersQrr, caused
advertisements to be published for two months in. two of the
azettes of the, state of Geotgia, for said grant, or patent,as
lost, offering a reward for its production if requiredA which advertisements were.exhibited to the cotprt, and, are inserted in
the record, at full length. -And the said witness further
proved that no iaformation whatever had boen- received -in
answer to the said "advertisements, nor, any .discoveries made
in relation to said original grant or patent..
'le also proved that-he had searched- the executive office' of
Georgia for the spid'original grant, and had examined the, list
of grgnts or patents to Which the great seal. of. the state had

SUPREME COURT.
(Patterson vs. Winn and others.]

ben refused to be annexed; but the baid original grant to Basil
,Dnes was not found noted upon the said list, ,as one of that
deseription.
And thereupon tho said counsel for the plaintiff moved the
'court to admit the said exemplification-of the said patent or
grant in -evidefde, the loss or destruction of the oiginal
having hbn 'suffie ntly proved; which the said court Tefusedt
to which decision the'plaintiffexcepted.

The Case was argued byMr Wildefor the plaifitiff in error:
bo counsel appeared for the defendants.
Mr Wilde, for the plaintiff in rrorf contended:
1: That the'exemplification of the patent or grant unde, the
of the state was- by itself, admissible evidence.
2.. That even were -it not'admissiblQ alone, the, proof made
treated a sufficlint, prestmnption- of the loss or destruct$- of
the-original to atithorize the introduction- of the ,copy.
The lawofevidence in Georgia is the common law 1,exceptdg
o far as it is altered by acts of assembly. On this sulijeet there
is no act; nor is-there any settled course of judicial decisiorM
From the organization of the judicial department in that state
tl re can be.none. Seven distinct tribunals, each deciding f&r
Itself in the last resort, without, any common umpire in case
-of disagreement, cannot be expected to exhibit an uniforjm intetpretation of any code, however- simple. With respect to
rules of -court, they are mere regulations for the conveniene
-and orderly transaction of business. They can neither make
taw, nor repeal it., If the rule is in opposition to the law, itis
ix nullity of. course. The common law doctrine is perfectly
well settled. The constat or inseximus of the king's tet4
tew patent, is as high evidence as the original itself I Phillip's Evid. 410. Peake'Evid. 21." Page's case, .5.Coke. I
Saunders, 189, in notes. 1 Hardres-, 119. Roberts vs. Arthur,
2 Salk. 497. Hoe vs. Northrop, 1 Lord Raym. 154. 3 Salk.
154. 1 Dall. 2,, 64. 2 Wash. Virg. Rep. _280, 281. Moss. Rep. -358. 12.Vin, .Ab. tit. Evidence, Cowtat [A,
b. 125]. 12 Vin. Ab. tit. Evidence, 'Exemplification, 114
[A. b. 33]. sec. 1, 5, 8, 16, 1.7, 18.
I aeeorgia, the original warrant and survey are -eturned to
tde

JANUARY TERM 1831.

237

[Pattersoii vs. Winn aid others.].

the surveyor general's office; where they are filed-, -and the
survey recorded. The acts of that state prescribe the form of
'grants. -A record of the is ordered to .be kept in tbersecretary
of state's office, where the great seal is attached to them; and
no grantis allowed to issue until it is recorded. No distinction exists in reason or authority between the patents of the
state and the patents of the king. They are of equal dignity
and to be verified in the same manner. It Will not be pretended, there is one rule of evidence for grants issued before the revolution, and a different rule for thdse emanating
since.
The most distinguished counsel of that bar, one who was
among the profoundest jurists of his country, the greatest
ornament of his profession, and most eloquent man 'of his
age, had been consulted, in his life time, on this subject. Before the action was brought, his bpinioii on the point in contest had been obtained. This is its purport.
"There can be no doubt that an exemplification or sworn
copy of the registry of the grant is good evidence, even without proving the loss of the original. Vid. 12 Vin. Abr. 97,
especially sec. 8, 39, and page 114,-sec.2, 5,16, &c. The distinction always was betweenprofert and evidence. When a grant
was pleaded,profert must. have been "made'of the bdgiial;
and hence the statutes mentioned in Vin. Ab. supra, but the
exemplification or sworn copy from the roll or registry was
-alwaysevidence-at the comiion law. The statutes, however,
were all passed before the colonization of. Georgia. In7 that
state the gant is enrolled, or a constat of it preserved, in some
public office or offices, as in Maryland; and what question can
it be whether the book itself or a cdpy from it is evidencie;
whether the original be producible ornot?
"In Maryland, the office copy is constantly given in evidence, and always has been, although we have'no act af assembly for that purpose, and -it was never otherwise in- Eng.
land. The enrolment can answer no sensible purpose, if it
does not answer this. The practice of enrolling grants, &e.
can have.no other object butto furnish sure constant.evidence
,of the titles of the citizen to his lands, or rather of the source
of his titles." Opinion of William Pinkney, Esq.
Thus the matter stands ufpon authority. How is it on the.

SUPREME COURT.
[Patterson vs. Winn and others.]

score of reason? This is the transcript of a public record and
imports absolute verity. . That which remains in the office is
the true original.' The grant, whidh goes out into the hands
of interested parties,,may be subject to alteration for fraudulent purposes. From. this the official record is secure. The
emanation of the grant is a public and official act. In rdlation to any such act of the legislature or judicial departmen,
tlhe original document. authenticating it, is not produced, but
a copy. Nay, in relatiqn to any other official act of the executive Aithority, the cit;zen who claims a right under it is
not held to produce the original instrument. Why should it
'be otherwise in, the case- of a grant?
If the patent'which goes out is to.be considered the origirmil, and, that -which remains in the offiee'only a copy, then the
exemplification is merely the copy of a copy; and the individual whose grant is destroyed by, accident, can obtain from
the public archives only the weakest* kind of evidenceto aid
him in establishing his rights.
Againr. What is the fact, which, the patent is introduced to
prove? That the state has divested itself ofpart of the pub,
lie domain," in favour of a.particular citizen. 'And will not
the solemn acknowledgement of the state, 'extracted from its
own records and authenticated by its own seal, be deemed sufficibnt evidence of that fact?
,.48s to the.secotndpoint. The exemplification was rejected5
not oi account of any inherent defect, but because the affidavit-of the lessor of the plaintiff was alleged not to be a cumpliance with the rule of. court. Rules of court are made to
advarlce-Justice.., They are always to be interpreted andapplied
in stbservience to that object. They have not the iaflekibility
of 'the law: miade by the court, they 'may be changed by the
court. . The judge can relax or enfoice them as justice may
irequire. Tie forms of the shrine are not to. be converted into
snares for the suitors who approach it.
The rule requires of the party seeking to introduce a copy,
an affidavit of his belief that the original is lost or destroyed; but this, evidently,. is applicable only to' the case where
such belief exists. Suppose he. aloes not believe 'it to be
lost or d'etroyed? Suppose he believes it to be in the
hanas-of the opposite party? Must lie perjure hixiself, or

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[PUterson a. Winn and othems.]
lose his rights? May.he tgt give notice to the opposite
party to produce -the original; show diligent-.inquiries after
it; preve circumstancbs presumptive of its destruction; and by
his own oath declare that he has itnot, that it is not in his
custody or powery and that le knows not where it is? -Alfof
which has been dohe in this case. What room is-there to
imagine the voluntary suppresion of the original, after such
.af affidavit? Could he say itwas not in, his power, if he had-

given itto another, or directed that other to give it to a third?
Could iesay he knew not where it was?
Moreover this action was commenced in 1820, the affidavit
was made in 1821, and the rule wasneo "establisheduntil 18S3..
Before the adoption of the tale, the evidince in this'case, independent of the plaintiff's oath, should ave"been deemed
sufficient to- admit the secondary proof. The oath is, virtually,
in every important particular, a compliance with the ex post
facto rule. According to the recollection of counsel, it was once
so held by the circuit court itself, and in these very'cases.
The rule of the circuit court is said to be borrowed from
th6se of the state dourts. If the-rule is borrowed, the interpretation, is original. Nothing is hazarded in saying that upon
the affidavit and evidence offered in this cause and set forth in
the record, no court in the state of Georgia would have refused to admit this copy.
Mr Justice STO4Y delivered the opinion of' the Court.
This case comes before the court by e writ of error from
the circuit' court for the -district of Georgia. The original
action was an ejectment brought by-the plaintiff in error
against tle defendants; and at the trial in November term,
18.29 a bill of exceptions was taken,"which raises the only
questions which are now before us for consideration.
The bill of exceptions states that the' plaintiff offered in
evidence; in support of his title, an exemplification, under the
seal of the state of Georgia, of a grant or pitent to Basil Jones,
of a tract of seven thousand three hundied acres of land,,
dated the 24th of May 1757, and registered the 5th of June
of the same year, in -the registry of grants in the secretary
of state's office. The defendants objected that the exemplifi
cation could not be received, until the original pant was

SUPREME COURT.
[Patterson vs. Winn and cthers.1

proved to be lost or destroyed, or the non-production thereof
otherwise legally explained or accounted for; which objection
the court sustained, and rejected the evidence. The plaintiff'
then exhibited a notice served on the opposite party to produce the original grant, and also an original power of attorney
from Basil Jones to Thomas Smyth, Jun. dated the 6th of August 1793, to sell and convey (among other tracts) the tract
in question. And also offered an affidavit, duly sworn to by
the plaintiff in October 1821, that he had not in his possession,
power, or custody, the said original grant, or power of attorney, and knew not where they were; and that he had' made
diligent search among his papers for the said grant and power,
and they could not be found. He further offered depositions
to prove, that search had been made for the papers of Thomas Smyth, by whom, as attorney in fact of Jones, the land
had been conveyed to Patterson,- and that no papers could be
found. He further proved that he had made search for the
original grant or patent in the office of the secretary of state,
and the book or register of surveys, in the office of the surveyol'
general of Georgia, and that the same could not be there found.
And he further proved, by a witness, that the exempliflcation
was a true copy from the register of grants and plots in the said
offices. , He further proved that search had been made among
the papers of Basil Jones, in the possession of his widow; and
among the papers of George Walker, deceased, who, as coun,.
sel for the plaintiff,, had once had the muniments of his, the
plaintiff's, title in his possession; and also in the office of the
clerk.of Richmond superior court, where the power of aitorney was recorded: but withoit success. He also protfed that
he had by public advertisement, in two gazettes of the state
of Georgia, offered a reward for the production of the said
grant or patent, but no discovery had been made; and that he
had searched the executive office of Georgia for the same, and
had examined the list of grants or patents, to which the great
seal of the state had been refused to be annexed, but the grant
to Jones was not found nbted upon that list as one of that description. And the plaintiff then moved the court to admit
the said-exemplification in evidence, the loss or destruction of
the original having been sufficiently proved; which the court
refused. The plaintiff excepted to the ruling of the court
upon both points.

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[Patterson vs. Winn and others.)

The first exception presents the question whether the exemplification under the great seal of the state was, per se, evidence, without producing or accounting for the non-produc
tion of the original; and we are of opinion that it was. The
common law is the law of Georgia; and the rules of evidence
belonging to it are in force there, unless so far as they have
been modified by statute, or controlled by a settled course of
judicial decisions and usage. Upon the present question it
does not appear that Georgia has ever established any~rules at
variance with the common law; though it is not improbable
that there may have been, from the peculiar organization of
her judicial department, some diversity in the application of
them in the different circuits of"that state, acting, as they do,
independent of each other, and without any common appellate
court to supervise their decisions.
We think it clear, that by the common law as held for a long
period, art exemplification of a public grant under the great
seal, is admissible in evidence, as being record proof of as
high a nature as the original. It is a recognition, in the most
solemn form, by the government itself, of the' validity of its
own grant, under its own seal; and imports absolute verity
as matter of record.
The authorities cited at the bar ftlly sustain this doctrine.
There was in former times a technical'distinction existing
on this subject, which deserv.es notice. As evidence, such
exemplifications of letters patent seem to have been generally
deemed admissible. But where, in pleading, a profert was
made of the letters patent, there, upon the principles of pleading, the original under the great seal was required to be produced: for a profert could not be of any copy or exemplification.
It was t9 cure this difficulty that the statutes of 3 Edw- VI. ch.
4, and 13 Elizab. ch. 6, were passed, by which patentees,-and
all claiming under them, were enabled to make title in pleading
by showing forth an exemplification of the letters patent, as if
the original were pleaded and set forth. These statutes being
passed before the emigration of our ancestors, beingapplicable to our situation, and in amendment of the law, constitute
a part of our common law, A similar effect was given by the
statute of 10 Anne, ch. 18, to copies of deeds of bargain and
sale, enrolled under the statute of Henry -VIII.when offered
VOL. V.-2 F

SUPREME COURT.
[Patterson vs. Winn and others.]

by way of profert in pleading; and since that period, a copy
of the enrolment of a bargain and sale is held as good evidence'as the original itself. 1 Phillips on Evidence, ch. 5,
§ 2, p. 2b8 to 302; ch. 8, § 2, p. 352 to 356; 408 to 411.
B ac, Abfidg' title Evidence, F. p. 610, 644, 646. Com. Dig.
Evidence, A. 2. 1 Starkie on Evidence, § 33, p. 152. 2
Saund. " on Pleading and Evidence, 638. Page's Case, 5
Co. R. 53. 12 Viner's Abridg. title Evidence, A. b. 25, p.
97; A. b. 33, p. 114. 1 Saund. R. 189, note 2.
Such, then, being the rule of evidence of the common law,
in respect to exemplifications under the great seal of public
grants, the application of it to the case now at bar will be at once
perceived; since, by the laws of Georgia, all public grants
are required to be recorded in the proper state department.
The question presented by the other exception is, heth.er under all the circumstances of the case (even supposing
the exemplification of the grant had not been admissible in
evidence, upon the principles already stated) there, was not
sufficient proof of the loss of the original to let in the second-'
ary evidence by a copy of the grant. It is understood that
the court decided this point wholly upon the ground that the
affidavit of Patterson did not conform to a rule made by the
court in December 1823. That rule is in the following words:
"1whenever a party wishes to introduce the copy of a deed or
grant in evidence, the oath of the party stating his belief of
the loss or destruction of the original, and that it is not in his
possession, power, or.custody, shall be indispensable in aid of
iuch evidence as he may adduce to prove the loss." Patterson's affidavit was made before the making of this rule (in
1821); and the defect in it is, that it does not contain any declaration of his belief as to the loss. or destruction of the
original.
It might not be important to decide this point, if it were
not understood that the same objection applied to the copy of
the power of attorney in the case, as to the copy of the grant.
We think that the affidavit and other circumstances of the
case, were sufficient to let in the secondary evidence. The
grant and power of attorney were of An ancient date; the
former being more than forty years old, and the latter but a
little short of that period since the execution. Some presump.

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[Patterson vs. Winn and others.]

tion of loss might naturally arise-under such circumstances
from the mere lapse of time. There appeared also to have
been a very diligent search in all the proper places, and among
all the prdper persons, connected with the transactions, to obtain information of the existence or loss of the-papers. The
affidavit of Patterson explicitly denied any knowledge where
they were; and declared, that they were not in his possession,
power, or custody. We think that according to the rules of
evidence at the common law, this preliminary proof -afforded
a sufficient presumption of the loss or destruction of the originals to let in 'the secondary proof; and that it was not compe-_
tent for the court to exclude it by its own rule. However
convenient the rule might be to regulate ihe general practice
of the courts, we think, that it could not control the rights of
the parties in matters of evidence, admissible by the general,
principles of law.
The judgment must therefore be reversed, and the cause remanded to the circuit court, with directions to award a venire
facias de novo.
Mr Justice JoH~soN dissenting. I am very well content
that the judgment in this court should be reversed, as it went
off below on grounds whidh had little to do with the merits-of
the case. But I regret that no other grounds have been found
for reversal than such as I feel it my duty to enter my protest
against.
The truth of the case is, that the plaintiff below was precluded from introducing evidence of a secondary nature, under a rule of practice of five or six years standing in that circuit, the benefit of whichwas strenuously claimed by the opposite counsel The court would have permitted the copy
grant and copy power of attorney offered in evidence, to go to
the jury upon the proof of loss of the originals, which was introduced; but as all the evidence which can be adduced in such
cases will be found very generally to leave the case subject
to the possibility that the deed (except in cases of positive
destmetion) may still. be in the party's own hands, or of
another for him; the experience of that court, as well as the
practice of the state courts, and the received doctrine that
such proof is addressed to the legal discretion of the judge,

-244

SUPREME COURT.
[Patterson vs. Winu and others.]

had caused that court to require, by rule,'the expurgatory oath
of the party, in a prescribed form, such as any man may take
in an honest case.
An affidavit of the plaintiff- was tendered, but not in the
form prescribed, and in a form which did not amount to 6
substantial compliance with the rule; since the affidavit so
tendered might have been made consistently With truth, and
yet the deed may, by possibility, have been delivered into the
keeping of the affiant's next-door neighbour; at least so It appeared to that court. It is true, it was of old date, and even
antecedent to this suit; but then the plaintiff was still in life,
and at any, hour within the six years since the rule was
adopted might have amended it.
It appears by the first bill of exceptions, that at the
trial the
plaintiff's counsel first offered in evidence a certified' copy of
the grant, without offering, in any mode whatever, to account
for the absence of the original; not even the defective expurgatory oath, already noticed: so that, non constat, but that
the original was then on the' table before him. The defendant's counsel objected, on the ground " that such exemplification could not be received until the original grant or patent
was proved to be lost or destroyed, or the non-production
thereof otherwise legally explained or accounted for." This
doctrine the court sustained; and this is now to be overruled,
and the doctrine established, that ", in the state of Georgia A
copy grant certified by the.secretary of state,, is of the same
dignity with the original grant, and per se evidence in ejectment.7"
Although I do not know that it would make any difference
in the law of the case, yet it is necessary to examine this bill.
of exceptions carefully, to understand its true meaning. The
copy tendered has been supposed -to be authenticated under
the seal of the state, and the printed brief states it to be under the great seal. -The -wordgreatis not in the exception,
and as the whole matter thus set out is made part of the bill
of exceptions, by referring to it, it will be seen that the seal is
only appended to the governor's certificate to the character of
the officer who certifies it; and his certificate only goes to the
factthar the wrifings exhibited are true copies from the record
book of surveys and the register of grants.

It is not then

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[Patterson vs. Wias and others.]

-

certified that such a grant was made or issued, but only that
the above is a "true copy from th e register of grants:" which
I propose to show is only a certified copy of a copy.
But the general principle involve'd in this decision is one of
infinitely greater importance than a mere rule of evidence.
It is no less than this; how far each state is to be permitted. to
fix its own rule of evidence,, as applicable to its .own real
estate.
The course of reasoning, I presume, on which this doctrine
is to be fastened upon the jurisprudence of Georgia, is this:
"such is the'doctrine of the common law; and the common
law being the law of Georgia, ergo such must be the law of
Georgia."
But, until better advised, I must maintain, that neither the
major nor minor proposition here can be sustained; that the
one is incorrect in the general, the other true only in a modified sense; and in that sense will npt support the doctrine of
this bill of exceptions.
If it is the correct sense of the common law that the exemplification of a patent is as good evidence as the patent itsclf,
I am yet to be made acquainted with the authority that sustains the doctrine. I am sure that Page's case (5 Coke), commonly cited as the leading case in its support, establishes no
such principle. It relies expressly on the'British statutes for
the sufficiency of the exemplification of the patent and the
right to use it in the profert, and the exemplification is introduced into the cause in order to correct an alteration that had
been made-in the date of the original patent, the original being
then also- before, the court.
But it-would,be a waste of time to run over -cases upon this
question, when we know that the force or authenticity given
to such exemplifications is derived fror..the statutes 3 and 4
Edw. VI. ch. 4; and 13- Ehizab. ch. 6; and then only of patents since 27 Henry VIII. Now how is it possible that such
secondary evidenceshould have been good -at common law,
and yet need the aid of-those statutes to sustain it?
In the passage in the Institutes on this subject, the introduction of these exemplifications of patents is expressly treated as
an exception to the general rule. Co. Litt.225. Hargrave'sCo.
Litt. 314. That a patent is proved by its own seal, we find

246

SUPREME COURT,
[Pattersba va. Winn and others.]

laid down in many places, and has always been the law of
Georgia. On the other member of this syllogism it is not tof
be questioned; that in Georgia, as well as'in every other state
in the union, the common law has been modified by local
views, and settled judicial practice, So that, were it generally true as laid down, that at common law the copy of the
grant was equal in dignity as evidence to. the original, still,
unless so recognized in Georgia, it is not the law of Georgia.
Now, to say nothing of my own "lucubrationes viginti annorum," there is not a professional man in Georgia who does
not know that such has never been the rule of judicial practice in that state. I may subjoin in form of a note the most
ample proof on this subject, and there is a reason in the practice of' their land office for this principle, which is too well
'known to every man in that country to leave a doubt of the
correctness with which they have applied the rules of evidence to their actual practice in the trial of land causes. I
make no doubt that there are at this moment thousands of
grants lying unclaime I in the landoffice, every one of which
has been copied into the %register., The truth is, the grant is
a searate thing,.from the true original, and the facsimile ofit
(if it may be so called in the register,) is nothing more than
a copy; so that the paper here dignified with the epithet of an
exemplification is nothing more than a copy of a copy,, and
therefore always considered in practice as evidence of an inferior order.
The courts of that state have latterly relaxed in requiring
evidence of loss; but even at this day, such evidence' cannot
be received in any of their courts, without an affidavit from
the party presenting it, of his belief in the loss or destruction
of the original.
And there are other reasons in support of this practice: for instance, suppose the copy on the register of grats should be found
variant from the original, without imputation, of fraud in the
latter, it is unquestionable that the original must prevail. So
also in case of interlineation; erasure or alteration of the original, why should the party be permitted to escape' the penalties
of the law by suppressing it, and producing a correct copy from
the register?
The second bill of exceptions goes to the exclusion of the

JANUARY TERM 1831:
[Patterson vs. Winn and others.]

copy deed, for want of a substantial compliance with the rule
of court. If this court mean to express the opinion,. that the
rule was substantially complied with, it is bne of those mere
matters of opinion, which are not to be argued down. 6ertainly the defect already mentioned is imputable to the
affidavit that wa tendered; and there was no want of time to
have made it conform to the rule. But if it be insisted that,
the court transcended its powers in making such a rule, then
may the practice of the state and United States courts from
time immemorial, ai~d the actual existing practice of the courts
of the states at this day, as well as the reason of the thing,'be
urged in its vindication: and if it be objected that the case was
one in wihicli the court below might have relaxed its rule;
then it may be fairly asked, how is it possible for one mind
to dictate to another on such a subject? 'It is an exercise of
discretion which can be limited and directed by no fixed rule.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the circuit court of the United States for the district of Georgia, and was argued by counsel; on consideration
whereof, it is considered and ordered by'this court that the
circuit court erred in refusing to allow the exemplification of
the grant to Basil Jones mentioned in the record to be read in
evidence as in the exceptions of the plaintiff is mentioned.
Whereupon it is ordered and adjudged by this court that the
judgment of the said circuit court-in this cause be, and the
same is hereby reversed, and that this cause be and the same is
hereby remanded to the said circuit court, with instructions to
award a venire facias de novo.

