SUPREME COURT.

THoMAs

S.

HINDE A" WIFE, PLAINTIPPS IN ERROR VS.
THE LESSEER op CHARLES VATTIER.

The book called the Land Laws of Ohio, published by the authority of a law of
that state, is evidence in the circuit court of the United States of an application
made in 1787 for the purchase of'i tract of land on the Ohio river between the
mouths of the Great and Little Miami, by John CQeves Symmes and his associates, and of the various acts of congress relative to that application and purchase, and of a patent from the president of the United States, pursuant Jo an
act of congress granting ta Symmes and his associates the land described
therein; and the production of any other evidence of title in Symmes was unnecessary.
It would be productive at infinite inconvenience to settlers and all persons
interested in the lands embraced in this patent, if its publication among the
laws of the state, and the admission of the book of laws as evidence of the
grant, after its solemn adoption by the suureme court of Ohio as a settled rule
of property, should be cuestioned in the courts of the United States.
There is no principle better established and more uniformly adhered to in this
court, than that the circuit courts in deciding on titles to real property in the
different tates are bound to decide precisely as the state courts ought to do.
The rules of property and of evidence, whether derived from the laws oradjudications of the judicial tribunals of the state, furnish the guides and rules of decision in those of the ynion, in all ca~es to which they apply, where the constitution, treaties or statutes of the United States do not otherwise provide.
THIS was a writ of error tn the circuit court of the district
of Ohio.
The case was submitted to the court by Mr DoidrAg on
the following case.
"This isan ejectment originally brought in the common pleas
of Hamilton county, in the state of Ohio, and afterwards izmoved to the circuit court of the United States for the district
of Ohio, for a part of lot No. 86, in the city of Cincinnati, in

the county of Hamilton in said state, by the defendant against
the plaintiffs in error.

At'the trial, a verdict and judgment

were rendered for the plaintiffs below, to reverse which the
present writ of- rror is prosecuted.
"During the progress of the trial, the counsel for the defendants in error tendered a bill of exceptions, which was signed

and made part of the record; which states, in substance, that
on the trial of this cause, the counsel for the plaintiff, to maintain the issue and prove title in his lessor, offered in evidence

JANUARY TERM 1831;
lEHinde et ur. vs. Vattier.]

an official copy of a deed of conveyance from John Cleves
Symmes ghd wife, duly recorded, dated the - of July 1795,
for the said lot 86, to Abraham Garrison. A copy of a conveyance from the said Garrison to James Finly, for the said
lot,, duly executed and recorded, and dated the 9th of August
1815; and .also a copy of a deed from the said .Finly, for the
same lot, duly executed and recorded to the lessor of the plaintiff, dated the 20th April 1818.
"The bill of exceptions then states, that the foregoing deeds
were offered as evidence of title in theplaintiff's lessor, without
offering therewith or before, any grant to Symmes, or to any
person under whom he claims, or any copy thereof; to which
evidence, unaccompanied by the further evidence before mentioned, the counsel for the defendant objected. But the court
permitted the counsel of the plaintiff, instead of such further
evidence, .to offer in evidence and read from a certain book
called I Swan's Land Laws of Ohio,' published by authority
of a law of that state, all that is contained in that book
between page 25 and page 34, the latter, included; and the
court thereupon declared their opinion to be, that the produc.
tion of any other evidence of title, in John C. Symmes was
unnecessary-the court being, satisfied, that the supreme
court of Ohio have solemnly settled it as a rule of property,
in cases" arising within the Miami purchase, where the lot
aforesaidis situated, to'produce any further evidence than before mentioned."
For the plaintiff in error, it was contended."
1. That by the settled rules of evidence, the plaintiff in the
court below was bound to derive to John C. Symmes, a title
from the United States, either by a grant to him directly, or
to some person under whom he claims.
2. That this title, as a-general rule, could only be proved
by the production of the grant, or an oteial or sworn' copy.
3. That a solemn decision of the supreme. court of Ohio, in
a mere matter of evidence at eihmon law, is not obligatory on
the United States courts.
4. That the assertion of the doctrine of the supreme court
of Ohio, stated in the bill of exceptions, is no -evidence of the
establishment of a rule of property in Ohio.

SUPREME COUPT.
[Hinde et ux. vs. Vattier.]

Doddridge for the plaintiffs, Caswell for the defendant.
Mr Justice BALDWIN delivered the opinion of the Court.
The suit in the court below was an ejectment brought by
the defendant .in error to recover part of lot No. 86 in the city
of Cincinnati. The plaintiff offered in evidence of his title
an-official copy of a deed of conveyance from John Cleves
Symmes and wife, duly recorded, dated July 1795, for
the said lot No. 86, to one Abraham Garrison, and a regular
chain of title from Garrison to the lessor of the plaintiff;
which was objected to by the defendant because no title was
proved in Symrh es. In order to prove this, the court permitted the counsel for'the plaintiff, instead of offering a deed or
grant from the United States to Symhies, to offer in evidence
and to read from abook, called the Land Laws of Ohio, published by authority of a law of that state, an application made
in 1787 for the purchase of a tract of land on the Ohio river,
between the mouths of the great and little Miami rivers, by
John Cleves Symmes and his associates: also various acts of
congress relative to said application and purchase, authorizing
the president of the United States to convey to said Symmes
and his associates certain lands therein referred to: also a
patent.from the president pursuant.to an act of congress,
passed the 5th of May 1792, granting to Symmes and his associates in fee,' a tract of land containing 311,000 acres, bounded
south by the riyer Ohio, on tlie 'vest by the great Miami river,
on the-east by the little Miami-river, and on the north by a
parallel of latitude to be run from the great to the little Miami
rivers, so as to include the quantity aforesaid.
;The court thereupon declared their opinion to be, that the
produceioon of an o'ther'evidence of title in Symmes than
what had been so- exhibited, was unnecessary; and further, declared they were satisfied that the supreme court of Ohio had
solemnly settled it as-a rule of property in cases arising out of
conflictihg titles within the-tract of land so granted to Symmes
and his associdtes, which is called the Miami purchase, and.
comprehends Cincinnati, that no further evidence of title in
Symmes, than what appears in th6 book so read, is ever ne-'
cessary.
The admission of this book in evidence, and the declara-

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[Hinde et ux. vs. Vattier.]

tion of the court that it was uffieient evidence of title in John
Cleves Symmes, under whom the plaintiff claimed, presents a
case clear of all-doubt. It would be productive of infinite inconvenience to guitors, and to all persons interested in the lands.
embraced in this patent; if its-publication among the laws of
a state, and the admission of the hook of laws as evidence of
the grant after its solemn adoition by the supreme court of
Ohio as a settled rule of property; should be questioned in the
courts of the United States.
There is no principle better established, and more uniformly
adhered to in this court, than that the circuit cojirt ,"in deciding on titles to real property in the different states, are bound
to decide precisely as the state courts ought to do. Wilkinson vs. Leland, 2 Peters, 656. The rules of property and of
evidence, whether derived from the laws or adjudications of
the judicial tribunals of a state, furnish the guides and rules of
decision in those of the union, in all cases to which they apply; where the constitution, treaties, or statutes of the United
States do not otherwise provide. The judges who tried this
cause were satisfied that it had been solemnly settled by the supreme court of Ohio, as a rule of property, in the trial of all eases
affeeting the title to lands within the boundaries of the patent
to Symmes, that the book of land laws was to be taken as sufficient evidence of the grant by the United States to him of all
the land embraced within it. The record affords no reason
for any doubt of the existence of such a rule; which wq think
reasonable, highly conducive to the convenience of suitors,
and fully within the power of the state court to adopt. This
court would decide contrary to the spirit of all their former decisions on similar subjects, in declaring the evidence received
in this case inadmissible, or insufficient to show title in the
plaintiff. It is their unanimous opinion that the judgment
must be affirmed.
The judgment of the circuit court is affirmned, with cost.
VOL. V.-3 A

