JANUARY TERM 1831.

THE LESSEE OF ROBERT

G.

SCOTT, AND StISANNA3

HIS WIrFE

AND JAMES C. MADISON, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR VS. SILAS
RATLIFFE, THOMAS OWINGS, JOHN OWINGS AND OTHERS,
DEFENDANTS IN ERROR.
A witness swore that she resided in Petersburg, Virginia, and that Bishop Madt,
son resided in Williamsburg, Virginia; that while she resided in Petersburg,
she had seen Bishop Madison, and was acquainted with his daughter only by
report; that she never had seen her or Mr Scott, but recollects to have heard of
their marriage, in Petersburg, as she thought, before the death of her father;
that she could not state from whom she heard the report, but that she had
three cousins who went to college at the time that she lived in Petersburg,
and had no doubt that she had heard them speak of the marriage; that she heard
of the marriage of Miss Madison before her own marriage, as she thought,
which was in 1810; that she was, as she believed, in 1811, in Williamsburg,
and was told that Mr Madison was dead. Held, that so much of this ewidence as goes to prove the death of Mr Madison was admissible on the trial,
and ought not to have been excluded by the court.
A patent was issued by the governor of Kentucky for a tract oT land conlaining
eighteen hundred and fifty acres by survey, &c.,'describing the boundaries.
The patent describes the exterior lines of the whole tract, after which the
following words are used, "including within the said bounds five hundred and
twenty-two acres entered for John Preston, four hundred and twenty-five acres
for William Garrard : both claims have been excluded in the calculation of thb
plot with its appurtenances, &c." Patents of this description are not unfrequent in Kentucky. They havb always been held validso far as respected the
land not excluded, but to pass no legal title to the land excluded from the
grant The words manifest an intent to except the lands of' Preston and
Garrard from the patent. The government did not mean to convey to the
patentee lands belonging to others, by a grant which recognizes the title of
these others. If this court entertained any doubt on this subject, those doubts
would be removed by the construction which it is understood has been put
on this patent by the court of the state of Kentucky.
The defendants claimed under a patent issued by the governor of Kentucky on
the 3d of January 1814, to-John Grayham, and two deeds from him, one to
Silas Ratliffe, one nf the defendants, dated in August 1814, fo4 one hundred
acres, the other to Thomas Owings, another defendant, for four hundred acres,
dated 25th March 1816; and gave evidence conducing to prove that they and
those under whom they taimed had a continued possession by actual settlement more than seven years next before the bringing of this suit. The court
instructed the jury, thatif they believed from the evidence that the defendants'
possession had been for more than seven years before the bringing of the suit,
that the act, commonly call the seven yeats limitation act, of Kentucky, passed
In 1809, was a bar to the plaintiffs' recovery.; unless they found that the
"daughtbr of the patentee, holding under a patent from the state of Virginia,
was a feme covert when her father, the patentee, died ; or was so at the time
the deft ndants acquired tneir titles by contract of'deed from John Grayham, the

VOL. V.-L

SUPREME COURT.
[Lessee of Scott and others vs. Ratliffe and others.]
patentee under the governor of Kentucky. The words, "at the time the de.
fendants acquired their title by contract or deed from the patentee, John Grayham," can apply to those defendants only who did so acquire their title. The
court cannot say this instruction was erroneous.

ERROR to the circuit court of the United States for the district of Kentucky.
On the 2d of April 1825, the plaintiffs commenced an action of .ejectment against the defendants, asserting a title and
'right of entry in and to eighteen hundred and fifty acres of
land, patented to their ancestor, James Madison, by the commonwealth of Kentucky. The grant was dated August 8th,
179a; and was in consideration of sundry land office treasury
warrants issued by the state of Virgini., and a survey bearing ddte 26th December, 1796, .founded on an entry made
prior to the 1st of June 1792.' At May term 1828, a verdict
and judgment were rendered for the defendants.
On the trial the plaintiff gave in evidence the patent'to
James Madison, and evidence conducing to prove the boundarids.thereof; and that the defendants resided in said bounds at
the commencement-of the suit.
'The patent recites, that in virtue of three land office treasury
wtrrants, &c. "there is granted unto the Reverend James
Madison, a certain tract or parcel of land, containing eighteen
hundred and fifty acres by'survey, &c.;" and describes the
boundaries thereof, "including within said lands five hundred
and twenty-two acres of land entered for John Preston, four
hundred and twenty-five acres for William Garrard: both
claims have been excluded in the calculation of the plot with
its appurtenances," &c. &c.
They also proved by James Harvee that he had known
Bishop James Madison and his daughter Susan, the wife of
one of the plaintiffs in -error. He stated that Ije had understood Susan had married Mr Scott, but he lad never seen
him; that Bishop Madison was dead- and he supposed died in
1812. N .B. Beal, another witness, testified that he had known
Bishop. Madison, had been to school to him, and he was well
acquainted with his daughter Susan Madison, and with James
C. Madison, his son, the lessors; they were the only children
of Mr Madison living at his death; that he could not say
when Bishop Madison died, but he thought about twenty

JANUARY TERM 183L[Lessee of Scott and others s. Ratlife and others.)

years prior to 1828; that in 1818 he was at the house of Mr
Scott, in Virginia, saw Mrs Scott, and they were then living,
as man and wife.
Mrs Eppes swore that she resided.in Petersburg, Virginia,
and that Bishop Madison resided in Williamsbuig, Virginia;
that while she resided in Petersburg, she had seen Bishop
Madison, and was acquainted with his daughter only by re"port; that she had never seen her or Mr Scott, but recollects
'to have heard of her marriage with Mr Scott before the death
of her father; that she had heard of Miss Madison's niarriage
before her own marriage, Which was in 1810; that she could
not tell-from whom she fieard the report, but she had three cousins who went to college in Williamsburg aIlihe time that she
lived in Petersburg, and had no doubt that she had heard
them speak of the marriage; that she was, as she believed, in
1811, in Williamsburg, and was told that .Mr Madison was
dead.
The defendants gave in evidence the patent to John Grayham, assignee of John Preston, issued by the governor of
KentuCky, on the 13th day of January 1814 of'fourteen.
hundred and forty-five acres of land; a deed from John Grayham to Silas Ratliffe, for one hundred acres by metes and
bounds, dated 12th August 1814; a deed from John Grayham
to Thomas Owings ,,for four hundred acres, dated 25th of
March 1816. On the trial the counsel for the plaintiffs took
three bills -of exceptions to the opinion of the court; the particulars of which are stated more at large in the opinion of
this court.
The first .exception was to the instruction of the court to
the jury, that if the plaintiffs did not show to their satisfaction that the defendants resided within the plaintiffs' grant.
and outside of the land cla'imed of Preston and Garrard, they
ought to find. for the defendants. This bill of exception also
set forth an objection, bythe plaintiffs' counsel, to the ruling of
the court as to the mode by which the location and survey
should have- been made.
The second bill of exceptions stated, that the plaintiffs
moved the court to instruct the jury that the seven years possession of the defendants was no bar to the plaintiffs' recovery:
which the court overruled; and they instructed the jury that

SUPREME COURT.
[Lessee of Scott and others es. Ratliffe and others.1

if they believed, from the evidence, that the defendants had
been more than seven years in possession next before the
bringing the action, that the seven years possession law of
Kentucky, of 1809, was a bar to the plaintiffs' recovery; unless the jury should ind that Susan Madison was a feme covert
when her father died, and when the defendants acquired title
under the patent of John Grayham.
The third bill of exceptions stated that the court, on the motion of the counsel of the defendants, overruled the evidence
of Mrs Eppes.
The plaintiff prosecuted this writ of error.
The cas6 was argued by Mr Wickliffe for the plaintiffs in'
error. No counsel appeared for the defendants.
Mr Wickliffe contended, that the evidence of Mrs Eppes
was improperly excluded in the circuit court. It was important to Mrs Scott and to her c-heir to establish the facts in the
knowledge of Mrs.Eppes; and such testimony to prove marriage, the death of the'ancestor, and heirship, is within the
rules of law and decided cases. 3 Bibb, 238. 2 Marshall,
572. Elliott vs. Peirsoll, 1 Peters.
As to the protection claimed under the seven years law;
the counsel for the 'plaintiffs contended that it protects only
those who arein under a supposed title from the commonwealth
of Kentucky. This was not the fact as to all the defendants: but
the instructions of the court were given as to the possession
of them all. The party claiming under that act must connect
himself with a legal or an equitable title. Ratliffe and Owings
were the only persons who claimed in that manner. Even with
such a title, it must be shown to have been adverse to the
plaintiffs' title.
The instructions of the court upon the terms of the patent
were also erroneous. The grant is to the whole extent of the
boundaries of the land, and gives the legal title; but the equitable title of those who might be within those boundaries was not
affected thereby. 1 Monroe, 133.
The court say the plaintiffs cannot recover unless they
prove that the defendants live outside of the undefified bounds
of Preston's grant. These lands had not been run out; and
it was impossible to prove the facts insisted upon, as the lines
had not been ascertained.

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[Lessee of Scott and others as. Ratliffe and others.]

Mr Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is a writ of error to a judgment rendered in favour
of the defendants, in an ejectment brought by the plaintiffs in
the court of the United States, for the seventh circuit, and district of Kentucky.
The plaintiffs claimed title as heirs of the Reverend James
Madison, deceased, under a patent issued to him by the governor of Kentucky, on the 8th day of August -1798. A
verdict and judgment having been rendered for the defendants, the plaintiffs have brought the cause into this court by
writ of error. The case depends on several bills of exceptions taken to certain opinions given by the court at the trial
of the cause.
The plaintiffs gave in evidence the patent to their ancestor.
It grants to the Reverend James Madison a certain tract or
parcel of land containing eighteen hundred and fifty acres, by
survey, &c. and " bounded as follows." It then describes the
exterior lines or the whole tract, after which the following
Words are used; "including within said bounds five hundred and
twenty-two acres of land entered for John Preston, four
hundred and twenty-five acres for William Garrard: both
claims have been excluded in the calculation of the plot with
its appurtenances, &c."
They then gave evidence conducing to prove the death of
the grantee before the institution of the suit; that the plaintiffs Susannah and James C. were his heirs at law, and that
the plaintiff Susannah had intermarried with the plaintiff
Robert G. Scott. They then introduced Mrs Eppes as a wit-'
ness, who swore that she resided in Petersburg, Virginia,
and that Bishop Madison resided in Williamsburg, Virginia;
that while she resided in Petersburg she had seen Bishop
Madison, and was acquainted with his daughter only by report; that she had never seen her or Mr. Scott, but recollects
to have heard of her marriage in.Petersburg, as she -thought,
before the death of her father; that she could 'not state from
whom she heard the report but she had three cousins who went.
to college at the time that she lived in Petersburg, and had
no doubt that she heard them speak of the marriage; that she
heard of the marriage of Miss Madison before her own marriage, as she thought, which was in 1810; that she was,

86

SUPREME COURT.
[Lessee of Scott and others vs. Ratiffe and others.]

as she believed, in 1811, in Williamsburg, and was told that
Mr Madison was dead.
On the motion of the defendants, the oatirt excluded this
testimiony as incompetent; and the counset for the plaintiffs
q cepted to this opinion.
In considering this exception some diversity of opinion has
prevailed in this court, with respect to that -part of it which
related to the time of the intermarriage between the plaintiffs,
Robert- G; Scott and Susan his wife. Some of the judges
think that the evidence given by Mrs Eppes respecting the
time, as well as that respecting the fact of intermarriage,
comes within the general rule excluding hearsay testimony,
which was laid down by this court in the case of Mima Queen
and child against Hepburn, 7 Cranch, 290. That rule is, "that
hearsay.evidence is incompetent to establish any &pecific fact,
which fact is in its nature susceptible of being proved by witnesses who speak from their own knowledge."
Othersthink
that the fact of the marriage being established by other testimony, the circumstance that this fact was communicated to
the witness before another event took place, becomes itself a
fact, and is evidence that the marriage was anterior to that other
event. It becomes unnecessary to decide on this principle, because we are all of opinion that so much of the testimony of
Mrs Eppes as goes to prove the death of Mr Madison was
admissible, and ought not to have been excluded.
On the motion of the defendants, the court also instructed the
jury "that if the plaintiffs did- not show to their satisfaction,
that the defendants resided within the plaintiff's grantand outside of the land claimed of Preston and Garrard, they ought to
find for the defendants. An exception was taken to this opinion; and the plaititiffs Contend that it is erroneous, because the
grant comprehends all the land within the exterior lines of the
survey; and that the exception of the equitable claims of Preston and Garrard did not impair the legal effect of the grant, but
subjected the grantee to the equitable demands of those claimants.
Patdnts of this description are not unfrequent in Kentucky.
They have been always held valid so far as respected the land
not excluded, but to pass no legal title to the land excepted from
the grant. The plaintiff does not controvert this general prin-

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[Lessee of Scott and others tvs. Ratliffi and others.)

ciple, but contends that, the peculiar language of this grani
forms an exception to the general rule; afid exempts this patent from its operation. The language is, that the lands entered for John Vreston and William Garrard are included
within the same bounds, but "both claims have been excluded
in the calculation of the plot, with its appurtenances, &c.1
We think these words manifest an intent to except the lands of
Preston and Garrard from the patent. The government could
not mean to convey to Madison lands belonging to others, by
a grant which recognizes the title of those others. If we entertained doubts on this subject, those doubts would be removed by the construction whi-h we ufiderstand the courts of
the state have put on this very patent.
The defendants claimed under a patent issued by the governor of Kentucky to John Grayham, on the 3d day of
January 1814, and showed two deeds from John Grayham, one
to Silas Ratliffe one of the defendants for one hundred acres
of ]and, dated the 12th of August 1814, the other to Thomas
0wings, also a defendant, for four hundred acres of land, dated
the 25th of March 1816. They also gave evidence conducing
to prove that they, and those under whom they claimed, had
a continued possession by actual settlement, m 6 re than seven
years next before the bringing this suit. The plaintiffs then
moved the court to instruct the jury that seven years possession, as aforesaid, was no bar to the plaintiffs' recovery; but the
court overruled the motion, and instructed the jury that if they
believed from the evidence that the plaintiffs had been more
than seven years in possession next before the bringing the
action, that the act, commonly called the seven years limitation act, of Kentucky, passed in 1809, was a bar to the plaintiffs' recovery; unless thejury should find that Susan Madison
was a feme covert when her father, the patentee, died; or was
so at the time the defendants acquired their titles by contract
or deed from the patentee, John Grayham.
The plaintiffs excepted to this instruction.
Their counsel admits the *constitutionality of the act of
limitations referred to in the opinion .of the court; and that it
is a bar to the action as to those defendants, who show title under John Grayham; but insists that only two of the defendants

SUPREME COURT.
[Lessee of Scott and others vs. Ratliffe and others.]

show such title, and that the plaintiffs are entitled to judgment
against the others.
There is no question respecting the law as applicable to the
fact; but some doubt exists respecting the fact. It is understood to be settled in Kentucky, that their limitation -act of
1809 protects those only who are connected with 4patent from
government, by paper title; and the record shows conveyances from Grayham to Ratliffe and Owings only: but it cannot escape us, that the object of the plaintiffs' motion and
exception was to bring into review and question the constitutionality of the. act of 1809. He therefore does not discriminate between those who have and those who have not title.
His motion comprehends all the defendants. The instruction
given by the judge is also in general terms: obviously not
contemplating any difference of situation or right between the
several defendants. We find expressions in the conclusion of
the instruction, leading to the opinion that in fact there was
no distinction between the defendants. After declaring that
the statute was a bar, the judge adds, "unless the jury should
find that Susan Madison was-a feme covert when her father,
the patentee, died; or was so at the time the defendants cacquired their titles by contract or deed from the patentee,
John Grayham."1 The words "4at the time the defendants
acquired their titles by contract or deed from the patentee,
John Grayham,". can apply to those defendants only who did
so acquire their title. The language of the judge cannot be
construed to indicate, that the conveyance to Ratliffe and
Owings could avail those who did not claim under them. The
defendants might all claim under them. Some confusion, undoubtedly, exists in the statement of the fact, both in the motion and in the instruction; but we think both may be fairly
understood as applying' only to defendants claiming under
John Grayham. We cannot say that this instruction is erroneous.
The judgment is reversed, for error in the entire exclusion
of the testimony of Mrs Eppes; and the cause is to be remanded, with instructions to award a venire facias de novo.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the re-

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[Lessee of Scott and others us. Ratliffe and others.)

cord, from the circuit court of the United States for the
seventh circuit and district of Kentucky, and was argued by
counsel. On consideration whereof, this court is of opinion
that there is error in the proceedings and judgment of the said
circuit court in this, that the testimony of Mrs Eppes, a witness in the said cause, was totally excluded; whereas the same
ought to have been admitted, so far as it conduced to prove
the death of James Madison, the ancestor of the plaintiffs.
Therefore it is considered, ordered and adjudged by this court,
that the said judgment be, and the same is hereby reversed
and annulled. and that the cause be and the'sane is hereby
remanded to the said circuit court with. directions to award
a venire faciag de novo-

VoL V.-M

