SUPREME COURT.

ELISHA R. POTxER, APPELLANT VS. HANNAH GADNER AND
OTHERS.

Appeal from the decree of the circuit court of Rhode Island, on the report of the
master, made*upon a reference to him of th decree of this court, in the case of
Potter vs. Gardner, reported in 12 Wheaton's Reports, 498.

APPEAL from the circuit court for the district of Rhode
Island.
The facts of the case are fully slated in the opinion of the

court.
The cause was argued by Mr Pearce, for the appellants; and
by I Bridgham and Mr Webstee for the appellees.
Mr Justice M'LEAx delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is a.suit in chancery, brought by Potter, the appellant,
from a decree of the circuit court in Rhode Island.
The controversy arises out of the following decree of this
court,- between -the same parties, in 1827; and reported in 1-2
Wheat. 498.

"On consideration 'whereof, this court is of opinion, that
there is error in so much of the decree of the circuit court, as
subjects Elisba!R. Potter to the payment of a larger sum of
money than now remains in is hands, of the original purchase money, added to the sum he has applied to the payment
of the debts of Ezekiel 'W. Gardner, after deducting therefrom
.the amount given for the estates purchased from Isabel Gardner; and in so mudh of the said decree as directs the said Elisha R. Potter to pay the sum he has applied to the debts of
Ezekiel W. Gardner, and for which he, the said Ezekiel, is
liable in the first instance, before he, the said Ezekiel, shall
have failed to pay the same, It is therefore the opinion of the
court, that so much of the said decree, contrary to this opinion,
be reversed and annulled; and that the same be in all other
respects affirmed: .and the cause is remanded to the said circuit court, with directions to reform the said decree, according to this opinion; and to do allotther things therein', s justice
and equity may require. In taking an aiccount betwoon the

JANUARY TERM

'831.

[Potter vs. Gardner and others.]

parties, which may be necessary to give effect to this decree,
interest is to be computed according to law and usage."
The facts on which this decree was founded are substantially these: on the 20th of April 1819, Potter purchased from,
Ezekiel W. Gardner, a tract of land, called the Ferry Farm,
for which he agreed to pay fifteen thousand dollars. Twothirds of this tract of land was charged, by the last will of
Peleg Gardner, with the payment of his debts. Ezekiel claimed
under the will.
By an agreement made at the time of the purchase, it seems,
that Gardner was to remain in possession of the farm until the
25th March 1822, at a rent of nine hundred dollars per innum: the consideration money to be paid when the lease
expired; and if any part of it should be paid before thatperiod,
interest was to be allowed on the sum thus advanced. The
rent Rtipulated to be paid was in lieu of interest' on the purchase money, and to the same amount. -It was the intention
of the parties, that the one account should balance the other.
The original bill was filed against Potter, in'behalf of the creditors of Peleg Gardner, deceased, to secure an application of
the purchase money to the payment of their debts. As a part
of the money had been paid by Potter, in discharge of debts
due by Ezekiel W. Gardner; the court held, that this was a
misapplication of so much of the fund; and decreed that Potter should pay the same amount to the creditors of Peleg
Gardner, if it could not be recovered from Ezekiel; and also,
the balance that remained due of the two-thirdi of the purchase money. The cause being remanded to the circuit court,
the decree was referred to a master who made the following
report. "That the amount of debts due from the estate of the
said Peleg Gardner, deceased, with the expenses which have
accrued on several of the claims, and the compensation of the
commissioners on that estate, including the interest on the
claims. to the date of the report, is eleven thousand eight hundred and eighty-seven dollars and ninety-two *cents. That in
ascertaining the amount of the several claims of the creditors,
he cbmputed the interest on those which had not been reduced
to judgment,. from the time the claims began to carry interest,
up to the date of the report; and on those which were reduced
to judgments, from the judgments to the same petiod.

SUPREME COURT.
[Potter vs. Gardner and others.]

And he further reported, "that the said Elisha R. Potter had
paid on-account of the purchase of that part of the Ferry Farm
devised to the said Ezekiel W. Gardner, in cash, the sum of
four thousand three hundred and eighteen dollars and sixtyfour cents; which when deducted from the principal sum, liable
to the payment of the debts of the said Peleg, left the sum of
five thousand six hundred and cighty-one dollars and thirty-six
cents.
"And that the said Elisha R. Potter is liable, according to
the principles of the clecree and opinion of the supreme court,
directly and immediately, to pay the sum of three thousand nine
hundred and twenty-nine dollars and sixty-two cents; being
so much of the purchase money as remains in his hands, and
being part of the before named sum of five thousand six hundred and eighty-one dollars and thirfy-six cents; and the residu6 of said sum, being one thousand seven hindred and fiftyone dolar. and seventy-four cents, the said Ezekiel Gardner
isg,.accordiag to the said decree, in like manner liable in the
first instance to pay; and-in case of failure on his part to pay
the sanie, the said Potter is required to pay the same, &c."
:" He'.calculated the simple intirest on the before named sum
of three thousand ninie hundred and twenty-nine dollars and
sixty-two cents; from the 16th of October 1820, the daywben
th.~summonqj in this cause, was served on said Potter, to the
-date of the report; amounting to two thousand and forty-two
dollars 'a~deighty cents: which, with the principal sum remainiig in.his hands, makes the sum of five thousand nine hundred
and 'seventy-two dollars and forty-two cents5 which suni the
sai&'Potter is liable to pay directly. And'the simple interest
on the before named sum 6f one thousand seven hundred and
fifty-pne dollars and seveiity-fo~tr cents, which the said Ezekiel W.. Gardner is l-iable in the first instance to pay, from the
,Sth Octobei1820 to the date of the report, is nine hundred
and ten dollars and forty-nine cents; 'which, when added to
the principal, amounts to the sum of two thousand six hundred
and sixty-twodollars ard twenty-three cents; and for the pay-.
.-ment of this, the said Potter i! liable, if it shall not be paid by
the said Gardner."
Exceptions were taken to this report, but they were overfuled by the circuit coUrt, and a pro fom a, decree entered

JANUARY TERM Is:i
(Potter vs. Gardner and others.]

against Potter, for the payment of five thousand nine hundred
and seventy-two dollars and forty-two cents, with interest on
the same from the time the report was made; and also for the
payment of two thousand six hundred and sixty-two dollars
and twenty-three cents, with interest from the same time; provided, that'sum shodild not be paid by Ezekiel W. Gardner,
or collected from him by execution. From this decree, Potter appealed, and relies-for its reversal on the following exceptions.
1. That no allowance was nade to him of said two-thirds
of the rent of tle Ferry estate; which he alleges was rceived
by said Ezekiel, towards payment of said estate.
2. That the claim of said Potter for nine hundred dollars,
which he paid to said Ezekiel on the 21st of March 1821, was
disallowed.
3. That interest is charged on said sum of three thousand
nine hundred and twenty-nine dollars and sixty-two cents;
when no interest ought to be allowed thereon.
4. That the sum of five thousand nine hundred and seventyreported to be due immetwo dollars and twenty-two cents, -is
diately and directly from said Potter; whereas, only three
thousand nine hundred and twenty-nine dollars anSI sixty-two
cents; being the amount of the security payable in mortgages;
is due, either directly or ultimately.
5. That by' said report, he ismade ultimately liable, on
failure of said Ezekiel, to pay, the sum of eight thousand six
hundred and thirty-four dollars abd sixty-five cents; whereas
he ought not in any event, to be liable for any more than said
sum of three thousand nine hundred and twenty-nine dollars
and sixty-two cents.
The rights and obligations of the parties being fixed by the
decree which was formerly made by this dourt; it now only
remains to carry into effect the principles of that decree.
As the purchase money was not to be paid by Potter until
the 25th of March 1822, -nointerest should be charged against
him prior to that time. But he objects to the'pjayment of any
interest, on the ground that it was not in his power to pay
the-money and discharge his obligation, before the final decree in the case be !nade.
The suit was prosecuted by thc complainants,- for the beneVoL. V.-4 Q

SUPREME COURT.
[Potter vs. Gardner and others.]

fit of the creditors of Peleg Gardner, deceased; and although
a question, as to their right to -prosecute the suit was raised
by the defendant; yet it was in his power to discharge himself from the payment of interest, by bringing into court
whatever balance he conceived to be due, and paying it over
under the order of the court. On the balance thus paid over,
interest could not have been charged. As this was not done,
it appears that the defendant below did not do all that was
in his power to exempt himself from the charge of interest.
By the decree of this court he is made eventually responsible for the sum stated- in the master's report, as having been
paid by him to the creditors bf Ezekiel W. Gardner. For
this sifm he is liable to the creditors of Peleg Gardner,*in the
same manner as though it had never been paid, if it cannot be
recovered from Ezekiel. The interest on this sum, whether
paid by Ezekiel W. Gardner, or Potter, should only be
charged from the 25th March 1822.
It appears that possession of the farm was retained two
years by Ezekiel W. Gardner under the lease; au.d then it was
surrendered to the appellant. He paid to Gardner, as he
*alleges, for the rent of the farm, or the interest on the purchase money, for the third year, the sum of nine hundred
dollars; and for two-thirds of this sum,'he claims a credit.
As interest is not charged against the appellant on the purchase money, until the 25th March 1822, which was after the
eipiration of the lease; this sum, whether paid as interest or
for rent, cannot be credited as so much paid on the principal,
or in discharge of interest which subsequently accrued. To
apply the credit as contended for, would be contraryko the
intention of the parties at the time the payment was mrade;
and" against the justice of the case. The appellant having
possession of the farm the third year of the lease, was bound
in justice to pay the rent; which Gardner had agreed should
be considered in his hands, as- an offset against the interest
on the purchase money.
During the two years which Gardner occupied the farm,
the rent was balanced by the interest; and of course, no credit
can be claimed by the appellant, on that account. Under
thr-is contruttion of the former decree of this court, the appellant is bound to pay the sum of three thousand nine hundred

JANUARY TERM 18.31.
[Potter vs. Gardner and othets.]

and twenty-nine dollars and sixty-two cents, with interest
from th6 25th March 1892; and he is also bound to pay, even-ltuiy. the sum of one thousand seven hundred and fifty-one
dollars and seventy-four cents, with interest from the same
time: if that amount cannot be collected from Ezekiel W.
Gardner. And, as the last decree of the circuit court is contrary to this opinion, it fs reversed' and annulled.

This cause came on to be heard on. the transcript of the record from the circuit court of the United States, for the district of Rhode Island, and was argued by counsel; ofi consideiation whereof this court is of opinion, that there is error in so
much of the decree of the said circuit court as 'subjects Elisha
R. Potter to the payment of interest from the 16th of October
1820, and that said decree be- reversed and annulled: and
this cause is remanded to the said circuit court, with directions
to enter a decree that the said Elisha R. Potter pay into the
registry of the circuit court, within thirty days from the next
term of that court, the sum of. three thousand nine hundred
and twenty-nine dollars and sixty-tyro cents, with interest
from the 25th of March 1822-to be paid over to the complainants, or to the creditors of Peleg Gardnerunder the directions of that court; and unless payment be made within
thirty days, that the complainants have execution thereof:
and that the said court also enter a decree, that Ezekiel W.
Gardner do pay into the registry of the court, subject to its
order, within thirty days 4s aforesaid, the sum of one thousand
seven hundred and fifty-one dollars and seventy-four cents,
with interest from the 25th of March 1822, for which he is
in the:-first instance liable, and the said Potter ultimately;
and- in default ther~of that execution issue against the said
Ezekiel: and if such execution shall be returned unsatisfied,
then the amount shall be immediately paid into the registry
afoiesaid, by the said Potter; and on his failin& topay it, the
circuit court are directed to award an execution against him
for the same.

