SUPREMIE COURT.

JAMES JACKSON, Ex DEx. OF LMARTHA BRADSTREET, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR vs. HENRY HUNTINGTON, DEFENDANT IN
ERROR.
Where one having no title conveys to a third person who enters under the conveyance, the law holds himn'to be a disseisor..
That an actual or constructive possession is necessary, at common law, to the
transmission of a rightto lands is incontrovertible. It is seen in the English
doctrine of an heir's entering in order to transmit it to his heirs; but whatever
b'atbe English doctrine, and. of the other states as to the right of election to
stand disseised, it is certain that the New York courts have denied that right;
both as to devises and common law conveyances, without-the aid of a statute
repealing the common law.
This court can ouly reverse a judgment, when 3 is,shown that the court below
has erred. It canatO proceed upon conjecture of What the court below may
have laid down for law; it must be shown in order to-be judged what instructions were in fact given, and what were refused.
Adverse possession is a legal idea, admits of a, legal definition, of legal distinctions; and is therefore doirectly laid down to be a question of law.
* Adverse possession may be set up against any title whatsoever, either to make out
a title under the statute of limitations, or to show the nullity of a conveyance
executed by one out of possession.
The common law generally regards disseisin as an act of force, and always as a
tortious act; yet out of regard to having a tenant to the precipe, and one
promptly to do service to the lord; it attaches to it a variety of legal rights and
incidents.
Rights accruing under acts of limitation -qre recognised in terms as, rimafacie,
originating in wrong, although arpong the best protections of right.
Ifthere be a tenancy in common, the law appears to be definitively settled in New
York, that the grantee of one tenant in conrimon for the whole, enteng on
such conveyance, may set u the statute against his co-tenants in conmon.

ERROR to the district court oilthe northern district of New
York.

The plaintiff in error, in 1824, instituted an action of ejectment in the district court of the United States for the northern
district of New York, for the recovery of a tract of land situated
in the village of Utica, and the county of Oneida, in the northern
district of New York. The cause was tried at January term

1827, and a verdict and judgment were rendered for the defendant. The plaintiffexcepted to the opinion of the court on
various points of evidence and of law, presented in the course

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[Bradstreet vs. I rntington.)

of the trial, and the court sealed a bill of dxceptions. The
plaintiff sued out a writ ot error to this cour.
The bill of exceptions states at large all the evidence and
proceedings on the trial of the cause.
The title of the lessor of the plaintiff and that of the defendant, as exhibited in the evidence contained in the bill of exceptions, was as follows:
Philip Schuyler purchased Cosby:'s manor, sold by the sheriff of the bounty of Albany for arrears of quit rent, under a
warrant from the chief justice of the state of NewYork, dated
May 7, 1772. This property was conveyed to Philip Schuyler
by a deed executed by the sheriff of the county of Albanydated
July 20, 1772.
General John Bradstreet made his last will and testament on
the 23d September 1774. The will, after providing for the
adjustment of his accounts, he being in the British service,
and devising a farm to John Bradstreet Schuyler, son of Colonel Schuyler, and some legacies, proceeds "all the rest of my
estate, real and personal, I devise and bequeath to my two
daughters, equally to be divided betwn them, as tenants in
common, in fee. But Icharge the same with the payment of
one hundred pounds sterling per annum.to their mother during
her life. Notwithstanding the former devise for the benefit
of my wife and daughters, I empower my executors to do all
acts and execute all instruments which they may conceive to
be requisite to the partition of my landed estate, and I devise
the same to them as joint tenants, to be by them sold at such
time and in such manner as they shall think most for the interest of my daughters, to whom the nett produce shall be
paid in equal shares, the sum of one hundred pounds sterling
per annum being first deducted, or a capital to secure the same
set apart for an annuity to my. wife, as aforesaid. I order
that Doctor Bruce have one hundred pounds for his trouble
and for his kindness to me; my watch I give to Mr Gould as
a mark of my friendship. I leave funeral expenses to the
discretion of my executors, and I appoint for the execution of
this my will the said Colonel Philip Schuyler and William
Smith, Esqr. New York."
Martha Bradstreeti one of the daughters of general Bradstreet, made her will on the 15th of May, 17;1, and, devised to

SUPREME COURT.
[Bradstreet vs. Huntington.]

her mother Mrs Mary Bradstreet, the.produce and interest of
her estate, real and personal, during her life; and after her decease she devised one equal third of her estate real and" personal to her sister Elizabeth Livius, her heirs and assigns, to
be at her disposal independent of her husband; one third part to
Samuel Bradstreet and Martha Bradstreet, children of her late
brother Samuel Bradstreet, and to their heirs, with benefit of
survivorship, the 'produce of such one third part, and -part of
the principal, to be applied to their maintenance and education,,
if necessary.' The remaining one third she gave to her sister
Agatha, wife of Charles Du Belamy, during her life, independent of her husband; after his death, she surviving, to her in
fee, but if she died before her husband, to her children; but if
she survived her husband,-and had no children, and should
iot dispose of the same by will, the same should go to Elizabeth Livius and her heirs. A like devise of the share given
to Elizabeth Livius was made in favour of her sister Agatha, if
she should die without disposing of her share, and without issue.
Sir Charles Gould was appointed sole executor of this will,
and authorized to act relative to the estate of the testatrix in
America, by the following provision: (IAnd I do authorize
my said executor to sell and dispose of such real estate as I may.
be entitled to in North America, or elsewhere, and to execute
conveyances for the same, and to place out my moneys upon
-such securities as he shall deem proper, and in such manner
and form, as to the shares devised to my sister Agatha, and to
my nephew and niece, Samuel and Martha, respectively, as
shall be conformable to the provisions of the will in respect to
each of those shares."
It was in evidence that Martha Bradstreet, the testatrix, and
John and Mary Bradstreet, were deceased.
The will of Elizabeth Livius, deceased, purporting to be
executed on the 20th November 1794, was offered in evidence.
The court not considering it duly proved, refused to permit it
to be read to the jury; to hich opinion, an exception was
taken: by the plaintiff. By that will Mrs Martha Bradstreet,
the lessor of the plaintiff, and the .daughter of Samuel Bradstreet, the brother of Mrs'Livius, then deceased, was made
her sole heir. The provisions of the will -were: " 1 hereby
cofistitute and appoint my dear niece, Martha BradsLreety

JANUARY TERM 1831.
LiBradstreet vs. Huntington.]
daughter of my late brother Samuel Bradstreet, major of the
fortieth regiment of foot, to be my sole heir, to whatever
estate, real or personal, I may die pbssessed of, to be paid, or
delivered unto her at the age of twenty-one years, or day of
marriage, whichever may first happen; p ovided she marries
with the consent of my most respectea friend, Sir Charles Morgan, Bart., whom rhereby appoint executor of this my last
will and testament. But in case she should die'before she attain twenty-one years of age, or before she be married as aforesaid, I then appoint her'brother, Samuel Bradstreet, a lieutenant in the 25th regiment of foot, to be my heir in her 1Vace
and stead.
Martha Bradstreet, the devisee and the lessor of the plaintiff,
afterwards, with the consent of Sir Charles Morgan,, married
Matthew Codd, but being divorced from her husband. she resumed her original name. The evidence to prove the assent of
Sir Charles Morgan to this marriage was excepted, to by the
counsel for the defendant, and the exception was sustained.
To this ruling of tlie district court, the plaintiff excepted.
The plaintiff also gave in evidence a map of the whole tract
of land conveyed to Philip Schuyler by the sheriff of the
county ofAlbany in 1772; and proved by Mr John R. Bleecker, who was sworn as a witness, that said map was in the band
writing of his grandfather, that he, the witness, received it of
his own father, Rutger Bleecker, deceased; and that he, the
witness, holds certain parts of said land, under title derived
from his said father, who also in is life time was in possession
of the same, pursuant to a partition deed thereinafter mentioned, and according to the allotments on the said map, which
said map appeared to have been made on the 31st day of
August 1780, and was stated to be in pursuance of a survey of
said tract.
And there was also given in evidence, a deed of partition
between Philip Schuyler, and RutgerBleecker, dated the 19th
day of December, in the year of our Lord one thousand seven
hundred and eighty-six, whereby and wherein, lot No. 97,
as described on the map, was released by Rutger Bleecker, to
Philip Schuyler; and the counsel for the said James Jackson,
also gave in evidence and proved that the premises in question
:on the trial of that issue; were part of the lot No. 97.

SUPREME COURT.
[Bradstreet vs. Huntington.]

On the 16th of May 1794, a deed was executed by Philip
Schuyler and others, of which the following is an abstract:
"The parties were, Philip Schuyler, of the county of Albany,
in the state of New York, Esquire, executor of the last will
and testament of John Bradstreet, deceased, and hercinafter
mentioned, of the one part, and Agatha-Evans, of the city of
New York, in the state of New York, widow, one of the
daughters of the said John Bradstreet, deceased, and Edward
Goold, of the same place, merchant, attorney to Sir Charles
Gould, Knight, the only executor of the last will and testament
of Martha Bradstreet, deceased, the other daughter of the said
John Bradstreet, of the other part"
It recites the will of general John Bradstreet, and that
Philip Schuyler, at the time of the making thereof, was seised
in trust for the said John Bradstreet of one undivided fourth
part of the tract of land described in the partition deed executed by himself and Rutger Bleecker (together with other
lands): the death of William Smith, his co-executor: and that
Agatha Evans, formeiiy Agatha Du Bellamy, is one of the
daughters of John Bradstreet. It also recites the Will of
Martha Bradstreet, the daughter of John Bradstreet, and the
devises in the same of one third to Samuel and Martha Bradstreet, children of her brother Samuel Bradstreet, deceased,
one third to his sister Agatha, then the wife of Charlds Du Bellamy, afterwards Agatha Evans, the wife of Charles John
Evans, and the remaining one third to her sister Elizabeth
Livius; and that partition had been made among the proprietors of the tracts in the manner of Cosby, describing the lots
which fell to Schuyler, as trustee of John Bradstreet, and
among them lot No. 97; and that the same had, with other lots
which fell to Schuyler in his own right, been conveyed to him
by the deed of partition. The deed states, that the said
Philip Schuyler, "as well to invest the said Agatha Evans
with a legal title to her proportion of the said lands and tenements, devised to her by virtue of the will of the said John
Bradstreet and Martha Bradstreet,,as to convey the rest and
residue thereof to the said Edward Goold, in trust for the said
persons who may be entitled to the benefit thereof, under the
will of the said Martha Bradstreet;" and in consideration of
ten shillings, &c.'hatb, "9by virtue, also, of the power and authority with which he is so as aforesaid invested, and of all

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[Bradstreet vs.-Huntington.]

other powers which he may lawfully claim as executor," and
doth "4grant, bargain, sell, alien, release, and confirm," to
Mrs Evans and: Edward Goold, and their heirs and assigns,
the said lands which fell to the share of the said Philip Schuyler, as a trustee for the said John Bradstreet, (describing them
at length, and including lot No. 97,) with the reversion and
reversions, &c. and all the right, title, &c. in law or equity,
&c. (in the usual form), to have and to hold, &c. to the said
Agatha Evans and Edward Goold, their heirs and assigns, in
manner following, viz: Two equal undivided third part t 9
Mrs Evans, and the remaining one undivided third to the said
Edward Goold, his heirs and assigns; "aid upon th6 following trusts-that is to say: to sell the same, from time to time,
as may be most expedient, and every or any parcel tbereof;
and,.after deducting the charges of sale, and other contingent
expenses attending the said trust, to divide the residue of the
money to arise from such sale, to and among the said devisees,
Samuel Bradstreet and Martha Bradstreet, and the said Elizabeth Livius, and their heirs, executors, and administrators,
according to their several interests in the estate of the said
Martha Bradstreet, by virtue of her will, or to such persons
as would be entitled thereto, upon the happening of any of the
said coitingencies in the said will mentiond," &c. The deed
further contains covenants against Schuyler's own acts or incumbrances, and for further assurance.
It was in evidence that Mrs Martha Bradstreet was twentyone years of age on the 10th August 1801; that she and her
husband came to the United States to reside in 1797, and that
she has ever since resided therein. The acts of the legislature
of New York, which enable alienees to take and hold lands,
were also in evidence.
A deed was given in evidence by the plaintiff of the following purport. It was executed on the 22d October 1804, at the
city of New York, by Edward Goold to Martha Codd, late
Martha Bradstreet, wife of Matthew Codd of Utica, of New
York. It recites the conveyance executed by Philip Schuyler
on the 16th of May 1794, Agatha Evans, and the said Edward
Goold, merchant, and attorney to Sir Charles Gould, the only
executor of Martha Bradstreet, deceased, a daughter of general Bradstreet, and all the purposes of that indenture; and that
Mlartha Codd, late Martha Bradstreet, by the will of Eliza-

SUPREME COURT.
[Bradstreet vs. Huntington.]

beth Livius, has, since the execution of the deed from Philip
Schuyler, become entitled to all the estate of Elizabeth Livins,
conveyed by the deed of Schuyler to Edward Goold, in trust
for Sir Charles Gould, as executor of the will of Martha Bradstreet, not sold or conveyed according to the trust; and that
Edward Goold, having became a bankrupt, has been ordered
by chancery to transfer and convey to Martha Codd all the
estate vested inhim as trustee, and that he is willing to convey
to the said Martha Codd all the estate vested in him as aforesaid, as her trustee, to which she may be entitled to under the
will of MarthaBradstreet. The deed then proceedsto convey to
Martha Codd, her heirs and assigns, all the real estate held by
Edward Goold at the time of his becoming a bankrupt, as
aforesaid, as trustee as aforesaid for the said Elizabeth Livius,
by virtue of the several indentures of release execubed by the.
said Philip Schuyler, as aforesaid, and the several wills therein referred to, and, also, all the real estate held by him, the
said Edward Goold, at the time of his becoming a bankrupt,
as aforesaid, as trustee for the said Martha Codd, by virtue of
the said several indentures and wills above referred to, to have
and to hold unto her, the said Martha Codd, her heirs and assigns, to the only proper use, benefit, and behoof of her, the
said Martha'Coda, her heirs and assigns for ever.
The defendant gave in evidence a deed of indenture, execqted by Charles John Evanws, and Agatha his wife, and Daniel
Ludlow and Edward Goold, conveying lot No 97, the property in controversy, to Stephen Potter.
The deed dated the 24th December 1790, was executed by
Charles John Evans, Agatha Evans, Charles Gould, executor
of the last will of Martha Bradstreet, by Daniel Ludlow, and
Edward Goold, his attorney. The deed is in the following
words:
" This indenture made the twenty-fourth day of December,
in the year of our Lord one thousand seven hundred and
ninety, between Charles John Evans, now of Brooklyn in the
county of Kings, gentleman, and Agatha his wife, one of the
daughters and devisees of John Bradstreet, Esquire, deceased,
and Sir Charles Gould, executor of the last will and testament
of Martha Bradstreet, the other daughter and devisee of the
said John Bradstreet, by Daniel Ludlow and Edward Goold of
the city of New York, merchants, his attorneys, of the one part,

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[Bradstreet vs. Huntington.]

and Stephen Potter, of Whitestown, Montgomery county, state
of New York, of the other pirt; Witnesseth, that tihe said
Charles John Evans and Agatha his wife, and Sir Charles
Gould, for and in consideration of the sum of four hundred
pounds, lawful money of the state of New York, to !em in
hand paid by the said Stephen Potter, at or before the ensealing
and delivery of these presents, the receipt whereof is hereby
acknowledged, have granted, bargained, sold, aliened, released
and confirmed, and by these presents do clearly and absolutely
grant, sell, alien, release and confirm unto the said Stephen Potter, and his heirs and assigns for ever, all that certain lot, piece
or parcel of land situate lying and-being in the county of Montgomery and State of New York, part of a larger tract granted to
Joseph Worrell and others, by patent dated the second day of
January in the year of our Lord one thousand seven hundred
and thirty-four, which lot upon a late' division of the said tract
was distinguished by number ninety-seven, and contains four
hundred acres of land, with the rights, members and appurtenances thereof; and all easements advantages and hereditaments
whatsoever to the same belonging, or in any wise appertaining;
and the reversion and reversions, remainder and remainders,
rents and services of the same, and all the estate, right, title, interest, property, claim and demand whatsoever, either at law or
in equity, of them the said Charles John Evans and Agatha his
wife, and Sir Charles Gould, and every of them, of in and to the
.same, and of in and to every part and parcel thereof, with the
appurtenances: To have and to hold the same 'lot of land, hereditaments and premises unto the said Stephen Potter, his
heirs and assigns, to the only proper use and behoof of the said
Stephen Potter, his heirs and assigns for ever. And the said
Charles John Evans, for himself, his heirs, executors and administrators, dpth hereby covenant and agree to and with the said
Stephen Potter, his heirs and assigns, that he the said Stephen
Potter, his heirs and assigns for ever, shall and may peaceably
and quietly have, hold and enjoy the said lot of land, liereditaments and premises, free and clear of all incumbrances titles and
charges made by the said John Bradstreet, or any person or persons claiming or to claim by, from, or under him. And that the
said Charles John Evans and his heirs, the said lot of land, hereditaments and-premises, with the-appurtenances, to-the said
VOL. V.-3 B

SUPREME COURT.
EBradstreet vs. Huntingtop.)

Stephen Potter, his heirs and assigns, against all and every person or persons whomsoever, shall and will warrant and for
ever defend by these presents. Received on the day of the
date of the within indenture, of the within Stephen Potter, the
sum of four hundred pounds, being the full consideration money within mentioned. Charles John Evans, Ludlow and
Goold."
It was proved, on the part of the defendant, that Stephen
Potter, the grantee, entered upon and took possession of lot
No. 97, under this deed, immediately on its execution; claiming to be sole and exclusive owner of the same; and continued
in such possession until his death, fifteen or sixteen years before the trial: having made large and valuable improvements
thereon. That after his decease, his son, with other members
of his family, succeeded to and continued in possession of
such parts bf the lot as remained unsold by their father,
claiming to be owners of the land: and that being in possession
and so claiming the land, Stephen Potter, the son, conveyed
the premises in the ejeetment to Henry Huntington, the defendant. No deed was produced, or proved, except by parol,
as stated; and the son of Stephen Potter and other persons
deriving title from his father.to parts of the lot,. continued
in possession of the residue of the lot, claiming the absolute
ownership thereof; and the defendant has ever since been
in possession and actual occupancy of the same, claiming the
ownership in fee by virtue of his purchase. But no buildings had been erected on that part of lot No. 97, for the recovery of which this suit isbrought, until since 1824, and al
that time a part of the premises were without fence.
The death of general John Bradstreet, prior to the death of
his daughter Martha Bradstreet, and the death of Philip
Schuyler, on the 18th of November 1804, were also admitted.
The bill of exceptions concludes as follows:
"Whereupon the said counsel for the said James Jackson
did then and there insist before the said judge, on the behalf
of the said James Jackson, that the said matters so produced
and given in evidence, on the part of said James Jackson, as
aforesaid, were sufficibnt, and ought to be admitted and allowed
as decisive evidence,t entitle the said James Jackson to a ver-

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[Bradstreet vs. Huntington."

diet, on the said issue, in this cause. And the said counsel
for the said James Jackson also insisted, that the said deed
from Charles John Evans and Agatha his wife, and Daniel
Ludlow, and Edward Goold, as attorney of Sir Charles Gould,
executor of the last will and testament ef :Martha Bradstreet,
deceased, to the said Stephen Potter, for the said lot No. 97,
was void; as to all, except the interest of the said Charles John
Evans and Agatha his wife, and could not be the foundation
of an adverse possession. And the said counsel for the said
James Jackson also insisted anti objected, that there was no
proof of the existence of any power of attorney from the said
Sir Charles Gould, the executor of the said last will and testament of the said Martha Bradstreet, to the said Daniel Ludlow
and Edward Goold, authorizing them to sell and convey the
estate or interest of the said testatrix in the said lot No. 97,
nor indeed of anypower of attorney whatever.
.,And the said counsel for the said James Jackson also insisted, that if the deed aforesaid to the said Stephen-Potter
were valid and sufficient to pass any thing more than the
rights and interests of the said Charles John Evans and Agatha
his wife, yet, that from the recitals in the said deed, the said Stephen Potter had notice that he could only purchase an equitable interest, the rights merely of cestuis que trust, and could
not therefore hold adversely to the said Philip Schuyler, the
tryistee and executor of the said will of the said John Bradstreet.
"4And the counsel for James Jackson also insisted*that the
said Stephen Potter, claiming to' hold the same identical
title of the lessor of the plaintiff, neither he, nor those
claiming under him, could set up his possession as adverse to
that title.
' And the counsel for James Jackson did then and there
pray the judge to admit and allow the said matters, so
produced and given in evidence for the said James Jackson, to be.conclusive in favour of the said James Jackson,
to entitle him to averdict in this cause; and to this the counsel
learned in the law, for the said Henry Huntington, did then
and there insist before the said judge, that the said matters so
given in evidence on the part of the said James Jackson, were
not sufficient. nor ought to be admitted or allowed to entitle

SUPREME COURT.
[Bradstreet vs. Huntington.]

the said James Jackson to a verdict; but that the said matters so produced and given in evidence on the part of the said
Henry Huntington, were sufficient, and ought to be admitted
and allowed to bar the said James Jackson of his action aforesaid.
"And the judge did then and there deliver his opinion
to the jury, that.although the several matters so produded
and given in evidence on the part of the said plaintiff, made
out a clear paper title to the equal undivided part claimed of
that parcel of the said lot No. 97, which was in the possession
of the said defendant; and were therefore sufficient in law to
entitle the said plaintiff to recover, unless such title was defeated by the adverse possession set up on the part of defendant; and that although the above recited deed from Charle,
John Evans and Agatha his wife, and Sir Charles Gould, executor of the last will and testament of Martha Bradstreet,
deceased, by Daniel Ludlow and Edward Goold, his attornies, to Stephen Potter, witho.ut further proof of the
authority of Daniel Ludlow and Edward Goold to execute
the same, was insufficient of itself to convey a legal title
to the undivided share of the premises sought to he recovered
in the present action; yet, that there was nothing appearing
upon the face of this deed, nor anything in the circumstances
connected with its execution, as far as they had been shown,
which in law would preclude the defendant from availing himself of possession under it as a bar to the plaintiff's action; or
prevent the possession of the said Stephen Potter takeri under
and in virtue of the said deed, from being considered adverse
to the title of the'lessor of the plaintiff, and to the title of the
said.Philip Schuyler, the executor and trustee of the said
John Bradstreet; provided the proof was sufficient in other
respects'to establish the fact of such adverse possession: and
the judge did then and there also further deliver his opinion to the jury, that the effect of an adverse possession in
the said Stephen Potter at the time of the execution of the
said above mentioned and recited deed from the said Philip
Schuyler, executor as aforesaid to the said Agatha Evans, and
Edward Goold, would be to render the said deed inoperative
and void as to the said lot No. 97, and tgrevent any title from
the said Philip Schuyler to the said Agatha Evans and Ed-

JANUARY TERM -1831.
[Bradstreet vs. Huntington.]

or to the said lot No.
ward Goold passing.by the said deed in,
97- and the. said judge did then and there further deliver
his opinion to the jury, that although it was generally true
that 6ne tenant in common was not permitted to set up his
possession as adverse to the title of his co-tenant, -yet that one
entering into possession of land under a deed for the whole,
and claiming the entire interest, would not be thus precluded;
although it should subsequently appear that such deed conveyed
only an undivided share.
"Whereupon the said cohnsel for the said James Jackson did
then and there, on the behalf of the said James Jackson, except
to the aforesaid opinion of ihe said judge; and insisted on the
said several-matters as sufficient to sustaifi the said action on
-the part of the said James Jackson.
"And thereupon the judge, after explaining to the jury
what in .law constitutes an adverse possession, and submitting to them as a -question of fact whether such a possession
had been proved, directed them, with the assent of the counsel on both aides, if. they should agree upon their'verdict before the opening of the courtnext morning, to seal up their
verdict. And upon the opening of che court on the next
morning the jury came in with a sealed verdict in favour
of the said Henry Huntington; but upon being called upon
by the clerk, at the request of the counsel for the said James
Jackson, severally to answer whether such was theirf verdict,
two of the said jurors dissented therefrom.
"cOne of the jurors thereupon stated to the court, that the
doubt in 'his mind was, whether he was bound to decide according to law or according to evidence;, and that it appeared to
him that according to the evidehce the plaintiff ought injustice
to have the land. And the judge thereupon replied to the
juror, that a juror was- certainly not at liberty in making up
his, verdict to disregard the law; that if the law required
alteration, it was the province of the legislature to alter it;
but that it was the duty of judicial tribunals to administer
it as they found it: that it was the province- of the judge to
decide questions of law, and that the jury were bound to respect such decision: that the question, whether or not it was
competent for the defendant to set up the defence of ad-

SUPREME COURT.
[Bradstreet vs. Huntington.]

verse possession under the deed to Stephen. Potter, was a
question of law, and had been decided against the plaintiff:
that what in law constitutes an adverse possession was also a
question of,law, and that it was for the jury to say under the
instructions which had already been given to them upon that
point, whether such possession had been proved; that if they
believed from the evidence that such a possession had been
established, they were bound to find a verdict in favour of the
defendant. Whereupon the said juror, after some hesitation,
assented to the said verdict; and the said counsel for the said
James lackson did then and there in behalf of the James
Jackson except to the opinion of the said judge so declared to
the saia juror. By the direction of the court, the other juror
who dissented was then called upon by the clerk to answer
whether he agreed to the said verdict. But the said juror still
persisted in his dissent; and stated, that he entertained the same
doubts which hact been exnressed by his fellow juror. Whereupon the said judge directed thr said jury to retire and again
deliberate upon their verdict And the said counsel for the
said James Jackson did then and there in behalf of the said
James Jackson, except to the said last mentioned direction of
the said judge. And the jury therinon. retired, and after
a short absence returned again into court with a verdict in
favour of the said Henry Huntington. Wbereupon the said
j~iry were again polled- at the request Qf the counsel for
the said James Jackson, and severally assented to the said
verdict."
The points presented for the consideration of the comrt on
the part of the plaintiff in error were:
1. That Martha Bradstreet, formerly Martha Codd. the
lessor of the plaintiff, acquired the equitable interest in and
title to the one equal undivided fourth part of the premises in
question, by virtue of the respective wills of Martha Bradstreet (one of the two daughters and devisees of general John
Bradstreet), and Elizabeth Livius.
2. That the deed from Edward Goold to Martha Codd (now
Martha Bradstreet), the lessor of the plaintiff, by virtue of the
decree of the court of chancery of the state of New York, conVeyed to her the legal title to the one-equal undivided fourth
part of the premises in question.

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[Bradstreet vs. Huntington.]

3. That even if the deed from Edward Goold to, the lessor
of the plaintiff did not convey the legal title, yet, that on the
death of general Philip Schuyler, on the 18th of November
1804, without having executed the will of general John Bradstreet, the legal estatr in the whole premises in question veited in the heirs of general John Bradstreet, or in their legal
representatives.
4. That the respective wills of Martha Bradstreet (one of
the two daughters and devisees of general John Bradstreet),
and of Elizabeth Livius (one of the devisees of the said Martha
Bradstreet), vested in the -lessor of the plantiff the legal as
well as the equitable title to the one equal 'undivided fourth
part of the premises in question.
5. That upon the whole record, the judgment rendered in
the court below in favour of the defendant in the court below,
is erroneous, and ought to be reversed.
The case was argued by Mr Mayer, and Mr Webster for
the plaintiff in error: and by Mr Storrs and Mr Spencer f6r
the defendant.
Mr Webster and.Mr'Mayer for the plaintiff in error.
1. There is no evidence of an authority being given by Sir
Charles Gould to -Edward Goold to convey the land in question: but, evqii if there were such evidence, it could not avail;
since sir Charles Gould's power to sell could not be delegated.
Shep. Touch. 448. Coombe's Case, 9 Rep. 656. Sugd. Pow.
174, 175. 1 Com. Dig. 771. 4 Johns. C. R. 368. 2 Atk.
88. 2 Sch. and Lef. 330. 3 East, 410. A sale under such
a power must be strictly pursued, and the power is limited by
the object for which it is declared to be created. 8 Wheat.
535. 6 Johra. Rep. 73.
2. He who acquires the legal title, with notice of the equity
of another, becomes trustee for that other: and the same principle should apply in favour of an equitable tenant in common,
where his co-tenant sells his own equitable interest, and-the
purchaser takes possession of all the land under that title; the
title giving him notice of the other equitable interest. 10
Johns. Rep. 496. 2 Caines' Ca. Er. 327. 1 Cranch, 100. 6
Johns. C. R. 403. Sugd. Vend. 487.

SUPREME COURT.
[Bradstreet vs. Huntington.]

It is true, that after the conveyance to Potter, the deed of
Schuyler made Goold trustee for the interest of the plaintiff
here; but that conveyance could not by relation make valid the
deed of Goold to Potter, so as to pass the plaintiff's estate, because the deed to Potter contained no warranty from Goold;
and, moreover, because Goold professed not to pass any beneficial interest of his own by the conveyance, and never had
any to pass. 3 Cow. Rep. 299.
3. It will not be denied, that where there is a devise of lands
the law casts the freehold on the devisee without entry. Co.
Litt. 111, a; and so must be the principle as to'equitable estates, to which all the rules of property apply that regulate
legal estates. The fee, whether legal or equitable, was here
in the devisees of John Bradstreet and of Martha Bradstreet
2 Johns. D. R. 21. 8 East, 248. 16 East, 288.
4. It is inanifest then, when the deed of 1790 from Edward
Goold of the one part, and Evans and wife grantors of the other
part was executed, the plaintiff in error had the equitable estate
in this land in common with Agatha Evans; and that this deed
was void as to the plaintiff's share, and availed only to pass
Mrs Evans's. It was a conveyance operating by Its tenor to
pass the several interests of two equitable tenants in common;
aild to be interpreted .distinct:yely as to those two estates; and
as if a separate deed had been given for each share. The
deed being good- only as to Mrs Evans's interest, Potter became an equitable co-tenant of the land with the .plaintiff:
and the equitable interest so vested in Potter, like that of the
plain:iff in error, was protected by the legal estate of Philip
Schuyler, the common trustee for both the parties.
5. 'There is no ground for imputing adverse possession, or
saying that the right of the plaintiff was, in intendment of law,
so contested as to make Edward Goold's deed to the plaintiff
void, either under the common law principle against conveying mere rights of entry, or under the statute of maintenance. The conveyance was nothing more in effect than the
release.of the trustee to the cestui que trust: Edward Goold
being the trustee substituted for ,Schuyler. It was even less
obnoxious than the release of a disseisee to a disseisor, vhich the
liw allows. Co. Litt. 369, a. The statute provided for the lawful possessor getting the release of the pretender; but the corn-

JANUARY TERM 1831
[Bradstreet vs. Huntington.]

mon law allows also the converse act, The common law and
the statute mean only to prevent conveyances under sales of
pretended titles, where there is a transmutation of estate and
possession. A court of equity would have compelled the conveyance which has here been made from Goold to the plaintiff. Can that be unlawful when done voluntarily which the
law would enforce ? The statute of uses executes, too, the
possession and legal estate to the use; and nothing mnore has in
efrect been done by this conveyance.
But there could have been no adverse possession against
which the conveyance militated; because, Potter being only
an equitable owner, the possession of the trustee who was common to Potter and the plaintiff, was the possession of Potter;
and Potter had no other possession. And the possession of
the cestui que trust is the possession of the trustee, and is never
deemed adverse to the trustee, or those cestui que trusts who
are shielded by the trustee's legal estate. 16 East, 288. 8
East, 248. 2 Ves. Sen. 481. 2 Vent. 329. 10 Mod. 149.
3 Atk. 728. 5 Wheat. 116, 124. 13 Johns. Rep. 552. 2
Meriv. 359. Ad. Ej. 47. Angell on Lim. 74. 2 Caines'
Rep. 169. 7 Wheat. 159.
But Huntington can in no view claim tha benefit of the adverse possession created by the deed to Potter, because he
does not connect this possession by any conveyance with Potter's right. 3 Wash. C. C. R. 479. 7 Mass. Rep. 384.
The production of a conveyance by Huntington was not insisted on in the court below; it being the duty of the defendant
there to sustain his own objection of adverse possession by
competent proof.
6. Wherever a possession can bu referred to a right, it will
be referred and confined to it. Such is emphatically the case
with regard to tenancy in common, where actual ouster must
be proved either by testimony directly to the fact of a literal
expulsion, or by acts accompanied by long and quiet possession, raising the presumption unequivocally and irresistibly,
that an actual ouster has taken place. 17 Wheat., 105, 109, 120.
1 Paine's C. C. R. 469. 4 Mason, 330. 16 East, 288.
8 East, 248. 3 Atk. 728. 20 Johns. Rep. 306. 12 Johns.
Rep. 368. Co. Litt. 199, b. 7 Cranch, 471. 7 T. R. 386.
5 Burr, 2604.
VOL. V. -3

C

SUPREME COURT.
[Bradstreet vs. Huntington.J

In the case of tenants in common, perception of rents and profits is, per se, no evidence of ouster. Co. Litt. 199, b. 5
Mass. Rep. 351, 352. Nor is it so even where the tenant
in possession levies a fine to himself. 1 East, 577. 1 Salk.
286. Nor is a conveyance by one tenant in common of the
whole interest in the land an ouster, 12 'Mass. Rep. 348;
14 Mass. Rep. 434; 17 VIass. Rep. 74; it being a fixed
principle that there can be no decision of an undivided moiety;
that the possession of one co-tenant is the possession of the
other; and that there can be no adverse possession where it
is possible for the law to impute a concurrent possession. 2
Mass. Rep. 506. 10 Mass. Rep. 464. 2 BI. Rep. 690.
Cowp. 217. 1 Salk: 391. 2 Salk. 423. 1 Atk. 493. Esp.
,456. The defendant has not the election to consider himself
a disseisor. That is the peculiar privilege of the plaintiff for
the convenience of his remedy.
The relation of tenants in common is considered fiduciary;
and the law will not allow one by a mere accident, as that of
getting actual possessioh, to defeat the right of the passive cotenant. 5-Johns. C. R. 388. 1 M'Cord's C. R. 322, 360.
7. In this case there. can be no presumption of a claim of
possession by Potter, under a title distinct from the plaintiff's,
or paramount to it: because the recitals of the deed exhibited
by the defendant acknowledge the plaintiff's title. Where
evidence is expressly offered by a party to one* effect, presumptions are not allowed to any other point of fact than that
which the party himself has by his evidence prescribed. 2
Har. and Johns. Rep. 336. 5 Har. and Johns. 264. 11 East,
372. 2 Str. 1267. No adverse possession can grow on an
exhibited title that is void on the face of St; as is the case here,
so far as concerns the part of'the plaintiff purported by the
deed to Potter to be conveyed. 7 Wheat. 105. 1 Paine's
C. C. R. 457. 12 Johns. R. 368. It is not pretended that
the title which may sustain an adverse possession must be a
rightful title. That would be absurd. But the title must be
at least prima facie good; and not show the elements of its
own invalidity. 5 Cow. Rep. 346, 484. 9 Wheat Rep. 545.
7 Mass. Rep. 384. 2 Ves., senior, 481. 1 Paine's C. C. R.
480. 1 East. 577. 1 Salk. 286.
A claim to support adverse possession must, either actually

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[Bradsireet vs. Huntiogton.]

or constructively, be under a distinct and paramount title.
It cannot be inferred where the defendant derives, by immediate conveyance, his title out of the present subsisting right
of the plaintiff herself; and in effect exhibits, as here, an inoperative deed to avail as'from that very plaintiff. There is
no room therefore here for constructive evidence of distinct
and paramount claim; though it is not said that the only evidence of such claim, in order to raise adverse possession, is a
deduction of title or any conveyance whatsoever. 3 Wash.
C. C. R. 479. 7 Wheat. Rep. 120. 18 Johns. Rep. 302.
16 Johns. Rep. 301. 13 Johns. Rep. 537.
The allegation of exclusive claim is by the defendant herself referred to the title in testimony, and it must be weighed
by the worth of that title. The deed to Potter, referring to
all the sources of the plaintiff's title, .as the sanctions of that
which the deed professes to convey to Potter, is to be regarded as if all those evidences of title were inserted in the deed,
and the references give complete notice to Potter of the plaintiff's right, and made the deed operate as if her equity" had
been expressly reserved. As to notice of title and equities
outstanding; 4 Johns. C. R. 38; 1 Paine's C. C. R. 525;
8 Wheat. 445, 447.

8. Potter's acceptance of the deed involves him with the
plaintiff's title, and refers his tenure to it; not on the principle
of strict estoppel, but of evidence which will permanently rebut the circumstantial presumption of adverse holding. 10
Johns. Rep. 435. 10 East, 583. 2 Stark. Ev. 1192. On
the same ground of evidence, no one can claim contrary to a
deed he has given, Jackson vs. Stevens, 16 Johns. Rep. 110.
The deed and the recital bipd the grantee against averring
adverse possession. Com. Dig. Evid. B. 1 Salk. 286.
Any express evidence to show that the party does not claim
independently of the rightful title of the plaintiff, repels
the presumption of adverse holding: and the slightest evidence of a recognition of that title will take off that presumption; such as at the time of entry inquiring for the true owner
and seeking to procure a conveyance from him. Jackson vs.
Sharp, 9 Johns. Rep. 167. Wickham vs. Conklin, 8 Johns.
Rep. 227. Jackson vs. Waters, 12 Johns. Rep. 368. Smith
vs. Burtis, 9 Johns. Rep. 180.

SUPREME COURT.
[Bradstreet vs..Huntington.].

9. We have said that the possession of Potter is to be referred to his right as shown by his deed, by his own testimon; which, giving him the undivided moiety of Mrs Evans,
authorized his possession., Wheri an indenture, as was the
deed here, conveys in fact and rightfully some estate, its operation shall be confined to that; although it purports to convey
a larger estate, Co. Litt. 476: and therefore Potter is even
estopped from averring that the deed to him gave him more
than Mrs Evans's interest, which it could rightfully convey.
10. It should be borne in mind that the law in upholding
adverse possession, means not to violate any of its principles;
and particularly not that which forbids one from taking advan.age of his own wrong: nor any of those principles which
opposefraud,and an assertion of right on a foundation of mere
force. Wherever adverse possession is imputed and made to
avail, it is on thepresumption of title in the holder, evidenced
by a long possession, accompanied by no force or fraud.
The so-called repose of titles is consulted and advanced on no
other principles. All the authorities, and the reasoning particularly in 1 Paine's C. C. R. 457, sustain this position. A
possession begun by force or fraud, it may safely be said, can
not found adverse possession; at least not until notice of such
possession in this adverse character be brought home to the
rightful owner. The principles of law just.referred to, upon
the effect of the acceptance of the deed, and as to evidence of
recognition of the true title, proceed on the moral policy
of adverse possession as just stated; and these views apply to
Adverse possession in reference to the statute of limitations,
and still more forcibly in reference to the statute or common
law principle of maintenance or. buying mere rights of entry.
Hence the entry upon land by one having no title is, as a
general principle, supposed to be in preservation of the rightful
title, and in subordination to the true owner. 7 Wheat. Rep.
105. 6 Johns. Rep. 218, 301. 2-Sch. and Lef. 97. 8 Johns.
Rep. 227. 9 Johns. Rep. 167. 12 Johns. Rep. 368. And
the contrary must be shown by proof affirmatively and
clearly. Brandt vs. Ogden, 1 Johns. Rep. 158. 6 Johns. Rep.
218. Jackson vs. Parker, 3 Johns. Cases, 124. 4 Mass. Rep.
418. Although that proof may be of a presumptive kind,

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[Bradstreet vs. Huntington.]

from circumstances raising inferences not contradicted by the

evidence in the case) and especially the defendant's own evidence.
11. As the law will not presume fraud, it will not, in order to
sustain a defence, indulge a presumption which implies a fraud.
To suppose that Potter, who, by lawful right was only a tenant in common, entered adversely-and so held, to exclude his
co-tenanZ, would impute a fraud to him. Fraud is no exception to the operation of the statute of limitations, after it has
once been discovered by the person against whom it is to act;
but the hostile purpose under the fraud must be known before
the statute can begin to apply. The same principle of notice
should obtain in case of all adverse possession, where a fraud
would be implied in meditating an exclusive possession.
When is this purpose of the defendant to be considered as first
notified to this plaintiff? If the principles of law as to the
presumption attending entries with some or no title, be as we
have represented them; the exclusive possessory claim of the
defendant, in the state of the evidence in the cause, can be
considered as made known only by his taking his objection of
adverse possession at the trial below, and as then first notified. Angell on Lim. 127, 135. 6 Wheat. Rep. 481. 2
Sch. and Lef. 2-3, 307, 607. 1 Cox's Rep. 28. 8 Wheat.
445. 2 Mass. Rep. 506. 14 Mass. Rep. 296, 300. 10
Johns. Rep. 457. 1 Burr.'118. 2 Johns. C. Rep. 155, 15S,
181. 3 Atk. 654. 1 Johns. C. Rep. 595.
12. The law is also settled that there can be no adverse possession, especially by one tenant in common against another,
without notice of the .claim of that possession. It is not
enough that the one tenant in common does acts, as well as
conceives plans inconsistent with the acknowledgement of a
concurrent possessory right in the other tenant; but if those
acts conclusively indicate the claim of sole possession, they
must, to serve as proof of adverse possession, be brought
actually or constructively to the knowledge of the other tenant. Whero-was the notice here to tie plaintiff that the defendant pretended to a higher possessory right than the deed
legally imparted; which Was only to the extent of Mrs Evans's
interest? No such notice is implied by any of the evidence;
and by the record we therefore date this notice of exclusive

SUPREME COURT.
[Bradstreet vs. Huntington.]

claim from the objetion of adverse possession taken at the
trial. The whole application of the rule of adverse possession,
whether under limitation, or the objection of maintenance, is
founded on the fact of actual or presumed acquiescence; and
consequently the possession must be notoriousand avowedly
adverse. Angell on Lim. 99. 6 Mass. Rep. 229. 7 Mass.
Rep. 383.

4 Mass. Rep. 416, 418.

9 Johns. Rep. 163.

13

Johns. Rep. 411. 3 Johns. Cases, 124.
The adverse holder must, for aught that may be shown in
evidence, appear, or be presumed to have reposed on the title
he may possibly have; and not only must the adverse character of the possession be proved clearly and without doubt, and
found by the jury; but the possession must be marked by definite boundaries, and is confined within the strict limits of
truth. 1 Johns. Rep. 156. 2 Johns. Rep. 230. 10 Johns.
Rep. 475. 12 Johns. Rep. 368. 14 Johns. Rep. 405. 3
Wash. C. C. Rep. 475. 10 Mass. Rep. 93. 4 Wheat. 213.
Angell on Lim. 75. A l these authorities show that the mere
fact of a sole possession is notin itself a proof of adverse possession; especially when the defendant does not rely merely on
the fact of possession; but rests it on a title which cannot justify
a possession adverse to us, since it recognizes our right and
professes to be a conveyance of that identical right, but is not
effectually so; though purporting to be immediately from her
through persons assuming the power to act for her. This is
the case meant by the books, when it is said that there can be no
adverse possession where the plaintiff and defendant "claim
under the same title;" that is, the same particularand im "
mediate right. It is not pretended that there cannot be adverse jossession where a defendant exhibits a deed from one
who, so far as"he has a right, derives his title from the same
source remotely whence the plaintiff's is derived. But the
present case is like that of Sinsabaugh vs. Sears, in 10 Johns.
435, where a deed was executed by two tenants in.common,
but inoperatively as to one of them; and adverse possession,
it was dccided, did not eiist against the grantor whose right
was attempted, thus ineffectually, to be conveyed. The same
principle was ruled in Jackson vs. Hinman, 12 Johns. Rep. 293;
that when the defendant sustains his possession under the particular right in question -of the plaintiff himself, and by a con-

JANUARY TERM 18:1,L
[Bradstreet vs. Huntington.]

veyance which failed to operate as to that right; the possessiona
cannot be called adverse under the statute of limitations, or in
reference to any other bar or disability. Till. Adams, Ej. 47,
48. Bull. N. P. 104. 1 M'Cord's Ch. Rep. 352, 360. 4
Johns. Rep. 230. 12 East. 153. 1 Caines' Rep. 393, 402.
9 Johns. Rep. 167. Where the younger son enters and dies,
the right of entry of the elder is not taken away, but the elder
may enter; because it shall be understood the younger -entered
as heir to his father; that is, acknowledging the same title.
Co. Litt. 242.
The case of Jackson vs. Smith, 13 Johns. Rep. 411. and 4
Mason, 326,do not militate against these positions; for there the
defendant claimed under a deed asserting a sole and exclusive
title in himself, although, in fact, he was but a tenant in common with others; and in the latter of these cases too, the defendant's grantor had under process of lrw acquired prima
facie the interest of his co-tenant. There was nothing in those
cases, as in this, like a recognition at the time of the deed of a
subsisting right in the plaintiff, and of the very right brought
into question by the ejectment; and the effectual conveyance of which was necessary to make the deed itself operative according to its tenor.,
The possession, to be adverse, must be shown to have
been hostile in its inception, or that, having begun in consistency with the rightful title, its character has changed; but
there must be adequate cause shown for the change, or for
imputing it. Where it commences under acknowledgement of
the right owner's estate, the possession will retain its original
quality through any succession. of occupants of the land; and
will be presumed to be in subservience to the rightful interest.
Angell on Lim. 105. 1 Caines' Rep. 394. The strictest proof
of hostile inception of the possession is required. 1 Johns.
Rep. 158. 16 Johns. Rep, 301. 3 Johns. C. Rep. 124. 8
Johns. Rep. 220. As to the supervening change of the possession, and that it must be proved by an accession of another
title, or other circumstances furnishing a motive for exclusive
claim. Cited, 1 Paine's C. C. Rep. 467. 7 Wheat. 105. 12
Johns. Rep. 368.
The circumstances that the husband of Mrs'Evansgives a
general warranty in the deed to Potter, by no means argues a

SUPREME COURT.
[Bradstreet vs. Huntington.]

denial of the plaintiff's right, but rather affirms it; as it supposes
a possibility of a superior right to at least a part of the estate
in the land. It is at furthest, in effect, no more than a covenant for quiet possession; while it imports a guaranty that the
deed will legally operate to convey the plaintiff's interest, and
thus again recognizes a title in her at the date of the deed.
But a warranty cannot enlarge an estate. And it is commensurate always only with the estate really created. Co.
Litt. 385, a. So that even with the warranty, the deed to Potter effectually conveys only the equitable estate of Mr Evans;
and the warranty is no creation of a wrongful fee to the prejudice, or rather in denial of the plaintiff's right which the
&iffirms.
conveyance itself
The common law never characterizes a possession as adverse against an infant or married woman, when it commences after the accrual of the right of the infant or feme
covert. They are both favoured in cases of descent, cast and
discontinuance, and wherever their entry would otherwise be
affected. Co. Litt. 245, b. 246, a. 248, a. 327, a. 327, b. 337,
a. 364, b. 388, a.: and this cumulated exception of infancy and
coverture is allowed wherever the coverture occurs during
the infancy. Co. Litt. 246, b. The evidence shows all these
disabilities in the plaintiff's case; and consequently there never
was a commencement of adverse possession against her; at all
events, not until her coverture ended in 1817. Certainly
there was none, according to these principles, when the deed
was executed by Goold to the plaintiff.
The positions stated bear on adverse possession considered with reference to the statute of limitations. They apply more cogently as to that possession, in reference to the
statute of maintenance, and to the rule of the common law forbidding the conveyance of rights of entry. And it may well
be contended that in the latter instances there should be an
actual disseisin, or an actual conflict of distinct rights and
deduced titles, to raise an'adverse possession that shall disable
tle true owner from conveying his interest; and that mere
possession, or possession even under a conveyance, shall not,
per se, with any circumstances attending it, have the effect of
annulling the rightful owner's conveyance.
If the bar of the statute of limitations be considered as
set up at the trial below, or comprehended in the opinion of

JANUARY TERM 1831
[Bradstreet vs. Huntington.]

the -court, it is contended that if adverse possession has ever
begun against the plaintiff, it cannot have begun to affect her
until the year 1817; as she was within the three combined exceptions of alienage, infancy, and coverture, until that period.
And such, as-to the bar of limitations,.must be the conclusion
we maintain; even if the positions asserted by us on the general doctrine of adverse -possession be not admitted. Not
only was the plaintiff under the disabilities referred to, but it
appears that Mrs Livius the devisor of the plaintiff, was hersCelf under coverture to the time of her death. Under the
statute of limitations, the possession runs only against the particular title in question. 7 Wheat. 59, 11.. 4 Johns. Rep.
390.
Mr Spencer and Mr Storrs, for the defendant.
The entry of Stephen Potter under the deed from Evans and
wife and Goold, to Potter, in 1790, was adverse to the legal
estate then in Philip Schuyler. Schuyler was then under no
disability; the statute of limitations commenced running at
that time against him as the legal owner. The right, of entry
"first accrued" in him (1 Rev. Laws, N. Y., 1813, p. 185);
and having run for twenty years, the entry of Schuyler, and"
Wrhen the statute once
all claiming under him, is barred.
begins to run, no subsequent disability arrests -it. 1 Johns.
Rep. 165. 15 Johns. Rep. 169. 13 Johns. Rep. 513.
The equitable interest of a eestui qui trust cannot be noticed
in this action. He has neither jus in re nor ad rem, at law.
It is of so little regard that his entry on the land would make
him a trespasser on his trustee. If the legal estate is barred,
the equitable interest follows the same fate. Co. Litt. 302. b.
Plowd. 59. a;
By the deed of Evans and Goold in 1790, a wrongful estate
in fee was created, and Potter's entry under it was a disseisin
of the legal owner. 2 Preston on Estates, 283, 292, 295, 299.
Neither Goold or Evans had any legal estate in the land, and
their deed passed nothing. The grantee is .ot deemed to enter
according to any right, as the deed conveyed no right. It
was the creation of an entire new fee, by wrong: It purported
to convey the whole fee in the land, and not any undivided
interest. The covenants are for the whole fee. It was created
VoLT V.-3 D

SUPREME COURT.
[Bradstreet vs. Huntington.]

and passed to Potter, in defiance of the legal estate then, in
Schuyler. The covenant for quiet enjoyment is against all
persons; and besides this, it contains an express covenant
against all titles derived from John Bradstreet. The possession has been held in conformity to the deed as an entire fee;
and Potter has always claimed to hold as the exclusive owner.
13 Johns. Rep. 118; 9 Johns. Rep. 174; 18 Johns. Rep. 40,
355.
The deed of Schuyler, in 1794, to Edward Goold, under
which the lessor of the plaintiff claims, was void as to lot No.
97, by reason of the adverse possission then held by Potter.
Schuyler had nothing but a naked right of entry, which he
could not convey, and the deed passed nothing to Goold. It
was within the statutes against champerty and maintenance,
and a nullity at commondavr. If it passed any thing to Goold
as attorney for Sir Charle, Gould, it operated as a confirmation of the estate he had b4ore passed as attorney to Potter.
13 Johns. 406, 488.
Potter and his grantees are not estopped by the recitals of
the descriptions in his deed annexed to the names of the grantors-of Agatha Evans, as "one of the daughters and devisees
of John Bradstreet," and Sir Charles Gould, as "executor of
the ill of Martha Bradstreet, the othdr daughter and devisee
of John Bradstreet." These recitals will not narrow the effect
of the deed. It expressly conveys the whole land, and cannot
be reduced by the descriptions annexed to the names of the grantors. Such a recital is not of the nature of an estoppel at law,
nor, by way of analogy, an estoppel in evidence, to show that
Potter meant to take an undivided interest only. If it was even
,analogous to an estoppel, the inference is repelled in the same
deed; for it conveys the estate entire, and expessly covenants
against all persons whatsoever in the ordinary form of general
warranty. It is this very wrong,. of which the lessor of the
plaintiff complains, that creates the disseisin of her trustee
from whom she derives her claim. The covenant is to defend the whole fee, and the whole interest in, the land against
the legal owner, and against all titles under John Bradstreet.
The covenant relates to the prior granting clauses of the deed.
and to the habendum, which conveys it as an entirety; and the
possession has been exclusive and co-extensive with the grant.
8 Cow. Rep. 168.

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[Brad~treet vs. Huntington.]

The utmost effect of the introductory clause of the deed to
Potter, would be to charge him with notice of the Wills of John
and Martha Bradstreet. But the wills contained nothing to
show that these lands were held by Schuyler in trust for John
Bradstreet, and there is nothing in evidence to show that
Potter had any knowledge of that latent trust In taking his
deed, he is to be deerhed tohave taken it in hostility to Schuyler as legal owner, in his own right, and for his own use.
But if the recitals are to impute notice to him of the interest of the other cesui qui trusts, it would only raise in equity
a constructive trust in Potter, and the remedy of the lessor
of the plaiutiff has been barred, even in equity, by lapse of
time. Potter would become a trustee by implication only. Direct trusts only are saved from the operation of the statute of
limitations. - The rale does not apply to constructive trusts, or
to trusts by implication. These stand in equity like any other
equitable claim. If a party is to be constituted a trustee by
a decree founded on the equity of the case, or even on fraud,
his possession is adverse; and the remedy is barred in the same
time in equity as at law. The statute, in such cases, reaches
both courts, and is adopted equally in both. Mathews on-Presumption, Ch. 24.
7 Johns. Ch. Rep. 90.
20 Johns.
Rep. 576. 5 Johns. Ch. Rep. 522. 2 Sch. and Lef. 633.
6 Wheat. Rep. 481. 1 Ball and Beatty, 119. 17 Ves. Jr.
Rep.-88. 8 Cowan's Rep. 588. 3 Johns. Ch. Rep. 216: 10
Wheat. Rep. 152.
The lessor of the plaintiff was in 1790 under the disability of infancy only. She could not, even in equity, tack
to it the subsequent disabilities of coverture. They are not
cumulative. 3 Johns. Ch. Rep. 129. 5 Cowan's Rep. 74.
7 Serg. and "Rawle, 109. 3 Conn. Rep. 227. She would
have been barred in equity therefore in 1811, ten years after
she became of age in 1801. So, if she was even at law a ten-'
ant in common with Agatha Evans in 1790, she is barred in
ejeetment by the statute of limitations. But,- in fact, she was
not tenant in common, as she had no legal estate in the land
in 1790. She can only claim any legal interest through the
deed of 1794 from Schuyler to Goold. She.claims therefore
through the legal owner, whose entry is barred. His conveyance to an infant or feme covert would not arrest the running
of the statute-much less to Goold. Nor was Agatha Evans

SUPREME COURT.
[Bradstreet as. Huntington.]

a tenant in common with Schuyler, in any sense. Potter entered claiming the entire title and the exclusive ownership.
Such was the proof, and such it is affirmed to be by the verdict. One tenant in common may oust his co-tenant, and hold
in severalty. 5 Wheat. Rep. 124. So he may enter origi"nally in his own right as sole owner, and hold accordingly 7
adverse to his co-tenant 9 Johns. Rep. 180. If Potter was to
be deemed in fact, or in law, a tenant in common, his entry
irn 1790, claiming the whole fee, and his exclusive adverse possession for forty years, would be evidence of an original ouster;
not an ouster at the end of twenty years, but an ouster on his
first entry. Cowper, 217. 2 Harris and M'Henry, 160. 6
Cowan's Rep. 632. 9 Johns. 180. But Potter neither entered as
tenant in common, nor claiming any undivided interest. He
entered under a deed for the whole interest in the land-the
entire fee-and has held in conformity to it. His possession
would not be less adverse, if his deed had been from a tenant
in common, if it conveyed the whole fee. His entry takes
its character from the conveyance, and it is immaterial whether his deed, being for the whole interest in the land, was
from a tenant in common or any one else, having title or no
title. Itis the character of the possession, and not the validity
of the title, which bars the entry of the owner. It is enough
that it is a colourable and not a naked possession,which inures to
the benefit of the true owner. The question is as to the character of the possession; and twenty years adverse possession
gives the positive right of possession in the land in the action
of ejectment. 2 Blk. Com. Ch. 13.
It is no answer to the adverse kossession that the defendant
holds under the same title at some anterior stage of it. But
in this case Potter does not in fact hold under the same legal
title with'the lessor of the plaintiff, in any respect. He took
nQ legal interest on his entry, from, any one whom the lessor,
of the plaintiff admits to have then had any legal title. Goold
never had any, and her co-cestui qui trust conveyed in law
-only her own claim, which was not of a legal interest. But
an entry under a deed, from one co-heir of the whole fee, is a
good foundation for an adverse possession. So of an heir,
where there is a devisee,and that too where the party conveys
as heir 16 John's. Rep. 406. So of a conveyance as attorney or trustee. 5 Cowan's Rep: 74; of a- conservation of a
f

JANUARY TERM 1831.
EBradstreet vs. Huntington.]

lunatic. 3 Cowan's Rep. 229; or guardian of an infant. 5 Day
Rep. 181.
Yet in all these cases the deeds recognize in some sense
the former right of the real owner. A purchaser does not
take his possession in subservience to the title of his grantor.
He holds for himself, and adversely to his grantor. 18
Johns. Rep. 355. 7 Wheat Rep. 535. 4 Serg. and Rawle,
215. There is no privity of possession between them. He
holds by a claim of right paramount to his grantor, and
not subordinate to him. 10 Wheat. Rep. 152. 4 Peters,
480. 7 Wheat. Rep. 535. 8 Cowan's Rep. 544, 590. A
contract of sale, without any deed, is a good commencement
of an adverse possession. 10 Johns. -Rep. 355. 6 Cowan's
Rep. 632. The fact of possession, and the quo animo are
the true tests in such a case. Hob. 120. 3 Serg. and Rawle,
151, 181. So an entry under a void deed or grant is enough
to sustain it. Ridgway's Case, 2 Coke's Rep. 55. The
entry of a younger son as heir works a disseisin, and is adverse.
Litt. see. 396. Roll. Abr. 659. 8 Johns. Rep. 479. lb.
91. 9 lb. 55. 1 Cowan's Rep. 205. 3 Peters, 43. These
cases fully repel he position, that the holding of both parties
under the same original title, affects the adverse character of
the possession.
The charge of the court below was in conformity to these
principles, and is well sustained in law: and the verdict of the
jury is conclusive, as to the facts necessary to constitute the
adverse possession. 9 Johns Rep. 102.
The lessor of the plaintiff is entitledto no favour against
such a length of possession, nor on tfie face of the case. Sir
Charles Gould clearly had power to sell her trust interest, and
to expend the proceeds for her education and support. It is
to ba presumed that he performed his duty faithfully. He had
power to appoint an attorney here, to receive the money if
Schuyler should sell under John Bradstreet's will. The only
technical informality in the defendant's title is, that Sir Charles
Gould could not sell by attorney. There is no pretence that
the money was not paid over to him in 1790. The solution
of the whole case is, doubtless, that Schuyler conveyed to Edward Goold, who had made the sales, as attorney fbr Sir
Charles Gould, in confirmation of Edward Goold's sales. and
to enable him to ciose the salbs.

SUPREME COURT.
[Bradstreet -s. Huntington.]

-

All has been done in good faith; and the lessor of the plaintiff now claims the land against a bona fide and innocent
purchaser, whose money she keeps. A court of equity would
the rather quiet the possession, by decreeing a conveyance to
the defendant.
Mr Justice JoHNsoN delivered the opinion of the Court.
The principles of law involved in this cause are few and
simple; and well established; and all the difficulties consist in
so arranging the facts as to apply the principles correctly; or
rather, to determine whether they have been correctly applied
in the court below.
The plaintiff here was plaintiff there, and the action being
ejectment, a remedy rigidly legal, it behoved her to make out
a title of the same character.
The title made out by the plaintiff consisted, 1. Of a series
of documentary and other evidence, received without exception at the trial,-which vested in Philip Schuyler an estate,
which to all legal intendment was an absolute fee* simple in
him and his heirs; without trust, or reservation, or any evidence, intrinsic or extrinsic, of his holding it, or any part of it,
in a fiduciary capacity.
2. John Bradstreet's will dated 23d September 1714; in
which he first devises all his estate to his two daughters in co=
mon in fee; and then says) "-notwithstanding the former devise
for the benefit of my wife and daughters, I empower my executors to do all acts, and" execute all instruments, which they
may- conceive to be, requisite to the partition of my landed
estate: and I devise the same to them as joint tenant, to be by
them sold at such time, and in such manner as they. shall think
most for the benefit of.my daughters," &e.
3. The will of Martha, one of the daughters of John Bradstreet;.under which Martha, the present plaintiff, acquires an
interest of one-sixth in J6hn'Bradstreet's estate, real and personal. Of this will Sir Charles Gould is appointed sole executor, with power to sell the lapds in America, and apply the
proceeds to the use of the plaintiff.
4.- A deed from Philip Schuyler, dated-May 16th, 1794; by
which, reciting that he is executor of John Bradstreet, he conveys-the plaintiff's interest in the subject in controversy, to

* JANUARY TERM 1831.
[Bradstreet ws. Hutington.]

Agatha Evans, widow, the other daughter bf John Bradatreet,
and Edward Goold, naming him attorney of Sir Charles Gould,
in trust to sell and dispose of it, and apply it according to the
interest created by the wills of John and Martha Bradstreet.'
This deed recites that Philip Schuyler was, at the time of
making John Bradstreet's will, and from thence to the decease
of John Bradstreet, seised in fee as tenant in common of and
in two equal undivided fourth parts of and in all that parcel
or certain tract of land, &c. G(being the same of which lot
97 is part and parcel) as to one equal undivided fourth part
of which said tract of land the said Philip Schuyler was seised in trust for the said John Bradstreet"
This whole fourth part he. conveys to Agatha Evans and
Edward Goold, to the use of Agatha, as to two-thirds in fee,
and as to the remaining third to the use. of Edward Goold, in
trust to sell and apply the proceeds as before stated.
The above recital is the only evidence in the cause to show
that the conveyance was any thing but a mere bounty from
Schuyler to these larties. And notwithstanding that recital,
it is perfectly clear that the case makes out the legal estate to
have been in him; that the conveyance is a common law conveyance, and operates to convey a legal estate to Mrs Evans
and Goold: as to her two-thirds clearly so: and as to the remaining third equally so, since the fee vested in Goold, and
the interest'of this plaintiff under that deed is a mere equity.
5. That equity was rot turned into a common law right.
until 1804, when Goold, who survived Agatha Evans, by a
deed in which he sets out-all the facts, on which this plaintiff's
equity rested, and among them his character of attorney to
Sir Charles Gould, and 'in compliance with a decree of the
court of equity, invests her with the legal estate.
The defence set up is adverse possession in- Potter; for the
double purpose of avoiding Schuyler's deed, and to maintain a
bar under-the statute. And to main ain this defence a deed is
introduced, executed four years prior to that of Schuyler, by
whicti Agatha Evans in her own right, and Edward Goold
and another, professing to be attorney to.Sir Charles G6uld,
executor of Martha Bradstreet the elder conveythe lot 97 to
Stephen Potter by words calculated to vest a legal fee simple,
with a general warranty by Evans, and a special covenant
against all claiming under John Bradstreet. But in the actual

SUPREME COURT.
LBradstreet vs. Huntfngton.]

state of the title at that time, in the eye of the common law,
this deed conveyed nothing: there was no seisin, actual or
constructive; no legal right to possession; nor any remedy except in equity for acquiring a legal estate to the parties who
executed this deed.
The bill of exceptions shows that the evidence'proved in
substance, that under this deed and immediately after its execution, Potter entered; and from that time, he and those claiming under him have held it as sole and exclusive owners against
all the world.
It is not questioned that the plaintiff is within the savings
of the statute under a continuing disability, unless the statute
began to run as" against Schuyler, and with equal reason as
against Evans and Goold, Schuyler's.grantees, in which case
it continued to run so as to bar her.
On this state of facts, the parties below moved for instructions, and the court gave a charge, and the verdict was rendered for, the defendant.
The questions which the couit has to consider are:
1. Whether the plaintiff was entitled-to the instruction she
prayed.
2. Whether there was any error in the instruction as given.
The prayer was a general one, that on the case made out
after the whole evidence and argument were gone through,
she was entitled to a verdict.
This of course implies, that she had made out a good title;
and that the defendant had made out no better title nor bar.
Thewords-of the prayer are, that the matters and things so given
in evidence were conclusive to entitle her to a verdict. From
which it follows, that-if there were a flaw in her title, or thai
the facts made out a better title in the defendant, or a bar tc
the.agtion under the statute, the plaintiff was not entitled tc
this instruction.
The charge admits the validity of the plaintiff's dedvction ol
title, unless interrupted by the invalidity of Schuyler's deed,
resulting from an adverse, possession in Potter; in which case
Edward Goold took nothing, and could transmit nothing to her
by his conveyance in 1804. The defendant's case the court
puts upon the possession.under the statute alone. Now, although the court may have overlooked something in the cause,
yet if the consequence is that the charge is more favourable to

JANUARY TERM 1831.
EBradstrect vs. Huntington.]

the plaintiff than it should have been, that is no ground of complaint on her part. And, individually, I think there were some
very important views of the case overlooked; views on which
I doubt if Lord Coke would have hesitated a moment to decide
the better title to be in Potter, independent of the bar.
1. Then I care not, for the purposes of my argument, whether the deed of 1790 to Potter be regarded as the sole deed
of Agatha Evans and her husband, or their joint deed with
Edward Goold and Ludlow, attorneys to Sir Charles Gould,
or of Sir Charles Gould, executed by his attorneys; either view
leads to the same result. But the correct legal view leads
more immediately to it; which is, that whether from the absence of proQf of the power of attorney, or from an incapacity
to delegate his authority, Sir Charles Gould's name must be
stricken from the deed. It is tfie deed of Agatha Evans and
husband, conveying, in language the most full and unequivocal, the whole land, and the whole fee in the land.
'There is not a word in it that can give it the character of a
conveyance in severalty, each conveying a distinct interest.
And more emphatically so as to Evans, who warrants the
whole, and covenants expressly against the plaintiff's title.
This then is, as to the plaintiff's interest, -aconveyance by
one having no .title, to a third person, who enters under that
conveyance. The fact of Potter's possession is distinctly
affirmed: and whether by actual forcible ouster, or by a peaceable possession acquired by fraud; the law holds him to be a
disseisor. The first alternative makes him so in terms; and
the second is an old, but well settled doctrine. Such is the
case in Roll's Abridgement, of a husband and wife, joint tenants
in fee; the husband commits treason, and the king seizes the
land. The king cannot be a disseisor, but the lord of whom
it was held, upon a false suggestion that it is his proper escheat,
is put in possession by the king. The lord is adjudged a disseisor as to the joint-tenancy of the wife; and the reason assigned is "4that he got possession of the freehold by misrepresentation, by injustice, and falsehood; that therefore the possession acquired by it must be looked upon as a -possession
acquired by violence open and avowed." 1 Roll's Abr. 658.
So where a guardian in chivalry, having of course the possession in him, assigns dower to one as wife of the deceased
VOL..V.-3 E

SUPREME COURT.
[Bradstreet vs. Huntington.]

tenant, who is not wife, and she enters; she is a disseisress: and
the reason assigned is
o that 4"her possession being acquired by
an act of fraud and injustice, thu possession acquired by it is
tortious." Bro. Tit. Disseisin, 7. 1 Roll's Abr. 662. So also
o0 a possession delivered or permitted under void titles; as in
the case of two infants joint tenants, and one, being under age,
releases to the other, by which the other holds the whole; he
is t disseisor, and the reason assigned is, ".that the *title is
utterly void." He was not held to b ,in of the original estate, although ajoint tenant, but to have committed a disseisin
against the clear state of positive fact, being considered as entering according to the release; not according to the state of
actual title after the release was bxecuted, which being void,
left the title unaltered. Bro. Tit Disseisin, 19. And the
same law was ruled in another case of much the same nature,
against the notoriety o1 an actual feoffiment; where the invalidity of the title was combined with a breach of duty, as between guardian and ward.
It is also laid down that if A. executes to B. a lease for
the lands of C. and B. enters, this is a disseisin by A. and the
reason assigned is, that the demise to B. is equivalent to a command to enter theland of C. Bro. Tit. Disseisin, 7. i Roll's
Abr. 662.
At the date of the deed to Potter the legal title was' in
Schuyler, and he only could be legally disseised. It is not
necessary to recur to authority to prove that a release to the
disseisor, by the disseisee in fee, is as good a conveyance as can
be executed; or that an absolute conveyance in fee, especially
with words of release, to a disseisor, is a release to the disseisor
or to his feoffee.
This last principle is expressly ruled in the case of Jackson
and Smith, decided in the New York courts. I3Johns. Rep.
406,
'Here then we have a conveyance from Schuyler the disseisee, to .Agatha Evans, the disseisress, operating in favour
of Potter, her grantee; which makes out a common law conveyance. It is seldon that a case'i cur time savours so much
of the black letter; but thq course of decisions ;n New York
renders it unavoidable, and the whole course of this argument
has been calculated to involve us in it.
If the conveyance of 1790 to Potter could admit of being

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[Badstreet vs. Huntington.]

considered, as onlypurporting to convey severally the interest
of the parties grantors; still we are led to the same result. It
must in that view be considered as the several conveyauce of
Sir Charles Gould, by Edward Goold and Ludlow his attorneys. Bbt then it is in the same character, reciting himself
such in his indenture, which he is estdpped from contradicting,
that he receives the conveyance from Schuyler. From this
two consequences follow: 1st, That he receives the release from
Schuyler in the same right and character in which he conveyed to Potter; and therefore in point of right as well as
form, is the grantor of plaintiff's interest to Potter, and.as such
the release of Schuylgr to him is a release to Potter. 2d,
That as it is through him that Mrs Bradstreet makes title, and
his deed contains the same recital, exhibiting him in the cliaracter of attorney to Sir Charles Gould; she also is estopped
from denying him in that character. In this view, also, then,
Potter would hold a good estate at common law.
It may be objected that if Schuyler was disseised, so as to
invalidate his deed as to the title of the plaintiff, then he was
disseised so as to invalidate the deed to the disseisor. But
this is not the law; for the principle does not operate as between thc disscisor and the disseisee, but only as between the
disseisee and a stranger. So is the common law; and so is the
New York decision before alluded to, in express terms. Jackson vs. Smith, 13 Johns. Rep. 406. Besides, if void against
her, it is immaterial whether void, or pot, against the defendant; her title, then, breaks off midway. Thus far for my individual views.
It is objected to the charge, as it regards the plaintiff's title,
that it was incorrect in stating " that the effect of an adverse
possession in Potter, at the time of the execution of Schuyler's
deed to fvans and Goold, would be to render the deed inoperative and void, and prevent any title from passing under it
to Evans and Goold."
If the judge could be considered as having passed upon the
.sufficiency of the evidence to establish the adverse possession,
there might be just grounds of complaint found to this charge;
but that question he expressly leaves to the jury: and then it
is obvious, that if such be the law of New York, it is idle to go
further, and inquire whether disseisin and adverse possession

SUPREME COURT.
[Bradstreet vs.

utntin~gton.]

be convertible terms at common law; or whether either at
this day should invalidate a transfer of property. That an
actual or constructive possession is necessary at common law
to a transmission of right, is incontrovertible. It is seen in the
English doctrine of the necessity of an heir's entering in order
to transmit to his heirs: but whatever be the English doctrine
and that of other states, as to the right of election to stand
disseised or not; it is certain that the New York courts have
denied that right, both as to devises and common law conveyances, without the aid of a statute repealing the common law.
After the case of Jackson and Dimont it is in vain to contest the point; and the principle is established by various other
cases. It was then incontrovertible in that state, that if the
jury found an adverse possessionz (for such is the language of
the New York cases; not actual ouster or disseisin); the conveyance was void: and such was the charge of thejudge.
It seems to have been supposed, in the argument, that the
judge founded his instructions on this point upon the statutes
of maintenance. This,- however is not the fact; for it will be
seen in the case of Jackson and Dinmont, that the courts of that
state go upon a principle having no relation whatever to the
statute of maintenance. They apply to adverse possession the
common law doctrine on the effect of disseisin; according to
which the deed of one disseised of his freehold is held to be
utterly void. His freehold was then held to be out of him, to
be converted into a right of entry or right of action, and as
such no more the subject of legal transfer at common law, than
an ordinary chose in action. It being so settled in New -York,
it is in vain to inquire farther; but, en passant, it may be observed, that there are few principles of more ancient or more
dignified origin. It is the law of kings, that the fact of possession proves the right o'f possession; and the idea is thrown
out by Blackstone, that it probably passed down from greater
to less, until it extended to every man's close.
There are, however, less questionable reasons for it to be
found in the practice and policy of the feudal and common law.
But the charge is said to be erroneous in those passages which
relate to the bar of the statute.
There is something unique in the form of this bill of exceptions, since, after setting out the facts, it gives us the argu-

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[Bradstreet vs. Huntington.]

ments of counsel, instead of prayers for specific instructions; and
contains but one prayer on each side, each for a general instruation in the party's favour. So that we have to examine
this instruction as rendered, and reduce it from generals into
particulars by reference to the evidence; perhaps aided by the
specifie propositions, exhibited by the arguments.
The instruction, then, commences by admitting hypothetically, that the deduction of title to the plaintiff was complete;
and that the deed from Agatha Evans and Ludlow and Goold
to Potter, was void, as to conveying away the intereitof the
plaintiffs; "yet," the judge affirms, "1there is nothing appearing on. the face of this deed (i. e. the deed to Potter), nor any
thing in the circumstances connected with its execution, as
far as they had been shown, which in law would preclude
the defendant from availing himself of possession under it, as
a bar to the plaintiff's action, or prevent the possession of the
said Stephen Potter, taken under and in virtue of the said
deed, from being considered adverse to the title of the lessor
of the plaintiff, and to the title of the said Philip Schuyler, the
executor and trustee of the said John Bradstreet; provided the
proof was sufficient in other respects to establish the fact of
such adverse possession." And again, "that although it was
generally true that one tenant in common was not permitted
to set up his possession as adverse to his co-tenant, yet, that one
entering into possession of land, under a deed for the whole,
and claiming the entire int,erest, would not be thus precluded;
although it should subsequently appear that such deed conveyed an undivided share." It then gpes on to state, that the
judge, "after explaining to the jury what in law constitutes
an adverse possession, and submitting to them as a questi6n of
fact, whether such a possession had been .proved, directed
them, &c."' And finally the judge instrticted the jury th at
"cthe question whether or not it was competent for the defendant to set up the defence of adverse possession under the deed
to Stephen Potter, was a question of law, and had been decided against the plaintiff; that what in law constitutes an adverse possession was also a question of law; and that it was for',
the jury to say, under the instructions that had already been
given to them upon hat point, whether such possession had
been proved; that if they believed from the evidence, that

SUPREME COURT.
[Bradstreet i's. Huntington.]

such a possession had been established, they were bound to
find a verdict in favour of the defendant."
Some difficulties were presented in the argument, as to the
effect to be given to the words "after explaining to the jury
what in law constitutes an adverse possession."-But it must
always be recollected, that this court can only reverse a judgment when it is shown that the court below has erred. It
cannot then proceed upon conjecture as to what the court below may have laid down for law5 it must be shown, in order to
,e judged what instructions were in fact given, and what were
refused. The passage alluded to can only be held to affirm what
it expresses, to wit "that the judge instructed the jury as to
And in dowhat in law constitutes an adverse possession."
ing so, certainly there was no error-adverse possession is a
legal idea, admits of a legal definition, of legal distinctions;
and is therefore correctly laid down to be a question of law.
The whole argument in this case proves it.
The whole purport of this part of the charge then, reduced
to its elements with reference to the points in argument, is
this:1. That adverse possession is a question of law, on whi~h
the court has a right to instruct the jury.
2. That the fact of adverse possession, in its legal sense, was
a question for the jury.
3. That the defendant in this case was not precluded from
setting up an adverse possession; whether we regard him in
the character of one holding under a void deed, or of a trustee
or cestui qui trust, or of a tenant in common, or of one holding the same, or by the'name title. Or in more unequivocal
terms, that an adverse possession where it actually exists, may
be set up against any title whatsoever; either to make out a
title under the act of limitations, or t6 show the nullity of a
conveyance executed by one out of possession. On thetwo first
of,these propositions there can be no doubt, and none has been
expressed; and as to the third, it is equally clear that disseisin
or adverse possession as a fact, is always a possible thing, and
may occur wherever force may be applied. The common
law, generally speaking, regards it as an act of force, and always
as a tortious act; and yet out. of regard to having a tenant to
the precipe and one promptly to do service to the lord, at-

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[Bradstreet vs. Huntington.]
taches to it a variety of legal rights and incidents. Rights
accruing under acts of limitations are recognized, in terms, as
prima facie originating in wrong, although really among the
best protections of right: and if any one Who can commit a
disseisin may claim under an adverse possession, it is not easy
to preclude any one. An infant, a feme covert, a joint tenant
in common, a guardian, and even one getting. possession by
fraud, may be a disseisor. 1 Roll's Abr. 658, 662. Bro. Tit.
Disseisor, 7. Salkeld, Joint Tenant, and Tenant in common..

The whole of this doctrine is summed up in very-few words
as laid down by Lord Coke [1. Inst. 153] and recognized in
terms in the case of Blunden and Baugh, 3 Croke, 302, in
which it underwent very great consideration. Lord Coke
says "a disseisin is when one enters intending to usurp the
possession, and to oust another of his freehold: and therefore
querendum est 5 judice quo animo hoe fecerit, why he enSo the whole inquiry is reduced
tered and intruded."
to the fact of entering, and the intention to usurp possess-ion. These are the elements of actual disseisin; and yet
we have seen that one may become a disseisor, though entering peaceably under a void deed, or a void feoffment, or by
fraud; and that the intention to disseise may, under circumstances, be imputed to those who by a general rule of law are
in ordinary cases incapable of willing, or not bound by an exercise of the will. This analogy, has been freely extended to
adverse possession, and even gone beyond it, as well by the
decisions of New York, as will hereafter appear, as by the repeated ruling of this court. In the case of Pawlet vs. Clarke,
4 Peters, 504, it is distinctly intimated, that a possession
may be adverse, wherever an outter may be presumed:
and also unanimously ruled, that it may be adverse, and maintain a bar under the statute, even where ouster is in terms repelled, and not to be presumed from the very circumstances of the case. The words of the court are, "a vendee
in fee derives his title from the vendor: but his title, though
derivative, is adverse to- that of the vendor. He enters
and holds possession for himself, and not for the vendor. Such
was the doctrine of this court, in Blightis Lessee vs. RochesIf this be the correct doctrine bf this
ter. 7 Wheat. 535."

SUPREME COURT.
[Bradstreet vs. Huntington.]

court, and there can be no doubt it is; it seems to follow that
wherever .the proof is, that one in possession holds for himself, to the exclusion of all others, the possession so held must
be adverse to all others; whatever relation in point of interest
or privity he may stand in to- others. Such certainly is the
view taken of the law in the reasoning of this court in the
case of *Willison vs. *Watkins, 3 Peters, 53; and with express reference to lessors, mortgagors, trustees, and tenants in
common. In the case of M'Clung vs. Ross, the Chief Justice
says, ",that one tenant in common may. oust his co-tenant, and
hold in severalty, is not to be questioned. But a silent possession, accompanied with no act that can amount to an ouster,
or give notice to his co-tenant that his possession i. adverse,
ought not, we think, to be construed into an adverse possession.
The principles laid down in Barr vs. Gratz, 4 Wheat. 213,
apply to this case." This is perfectly consistent with the
language of the case of the town of Pawlet; for the fact to be
determined is whether the party holds possession for himself
or for another: and this can only be determined by evidence, or
circumstances to prove the one or the other. It is the inquiry
into the "4quo animo." In all these cases there is no intimation found that the adverse possession may not be set up: the
only point maintained is, that the "quo animo" must be established, as well as the fact. But in finding the quo animo,
the jury must of course be left to their own view of the effect
and sufficiency of the evidence. Actual ouster is clearly not
requisite, either to be presumed or proved; adverse possession
may exist without it; and notice, as a fact, may clearly be deduced from circumstances, as well as be positively proved.
The bill of exceptions states, that the defendant proved (that
is the word used,) that Potter, 1. Entered under his deed and
by virtue thereof, 2. Immediately after the execution thereof. 3. Claiming to be sole and exclusive owner thereof: and
in a subsequent part, it is amplified by the expressions, claiming the absolute ownership, and the ownership in fee.
Much of the discussion has turned upon the sufficiency of
proof to the effect stated to sustain the finding of an adverse
possession; and it has been insisted that it neither supplies the
exigency of actual ouster or notice. The only prayer of the
plaintiff,- it will be recollected, is for a general instruction in

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[Bradstreet vs. Huntington.]

her favour, "upon the matters so produced and given in evidence in her behalf." The court were therefore not called
upon by the plaintiff to instruct the jury upon the competency
of this evidence, to sustain a finding of adverse possession; and
accordingly gave none, unless it was ificidentally: and if therefore the evidence was insufficient, it could only be the ground
of a motiGn for a new trial; with which we have no concern.
The views which I have taken of the doctrine of adverse
possession would not have been necessary, but for thesupposed
bearing of the instructions actually given by the court upon
the verdict; and particularly in relation-ist. To that part -of
the bill of exceptions, in which it is said "that the court explained to the jury what in law constitutes an "adverse possession;" which, if correctly explained, it is supposed could not
have sanctioned the verdict-upon that evidence. But on this
it must be observed, that in a case where the quo animo alone,
with which a defendant entered, and held, was the question;
and the-proof was that he entered and held to be the sole and
exclusive owner of the land, and to hold an absolute ownership in fee; if ouster and notice like other facts may be presumed from long and undisturbed possession, or other circumstances; it would be difficult t say that the testimony in this
cause was not competent to sustain a finding of an .adverse
possession. It is impossible, upon this view of the case, to im-,
pute to the court any other instruction than what may be covered by the terms of the proof in the case: that is, that if
the judge instructed the jury, " that one who enters under a
deed purporting to convey to him an estate in fee, claiming
to beosole, and exclusive, and absolute- owner in fee thereof,
for forty years, may be regarded as holding adverse to all theworld;" it would bedifficult to find any legal exception to such
a charge; since it is left open to the jury to judge of the sufficiency of the evidence to prove the fact of a claiming- to be
sole, and exclusive, and absolute owner, in fee. Notice and
actual ouster are among the most direct and ordinary proofs of
such a holding; and -may have been the proved or presumed
ground of this verdict.
2. These views taken of the law of adverse possession,
were necessary to precede, an analysis of the general inVOL. V.-3 F

SUPREME COURT.
[Bradstreet vs. Huntington.]

struction given by the court upon the competency of the bar
under the statute.
On this instruction it is necessary to bear in mind, that it is
strictly confined to this,-lst. That there is nothing on the
face of the deed under which Potter claims, thatprecludts him
from setting up this bar. 2d. That- there was nothing in the
circumstances connected with its execution, that would preclude him. 3d. That there is nothing in the.possession acquired under that deed, to prevent the possession acquired under it from being held-adverse to the lessor of the plaintiff, or to
Schuyler; provided the proof was sufficient in other respects
to establish the fact of adverse possession. There is no affirmation, by the court of the sufficiency of that deed to constitute an adverse possession; or of the sufficiency of the posstssion acquired under it. But' all the court becomes responsible
for, is the negative proposition that there is nothing in the
deel , or in the circumstances attending its execution, which
precludes the defendant from setting up and proving adverse
possession.
Now it is difficult to see how this proposition can be controverted. If in the very nature of things, there is no one
who may not he actually ousted and actually held out of possessien, whether lessor, mortgagor, trustee, or tenant in common, as is affirmed in the case of Willison vs. Watkins, and
other cases; how is it possible, that any deed, or any circum,stance should preclude a resort to proof of absolute adverse
-possession, where it exists in fact? The charge of the-court
amounts to no more than a limited affirmance of that general
proposition.
But as the chief difficulty in the cause arises out of that specification under the general proposition which relates particularly to a tenancy in common, we will consider that with due
attention. The instruction of the court is I that although it is
generally true that one' tenant in common was not permitted
to set up his possession as adverse to the title of his co-tenant;
yet that one entering into possession of land under such a deed
for the whole, and claiming the entire interest, would not be
thus precluded; although it should subsequently appear that
such deed conveyed only an undivided share."
The words "t thus precluded" have reference to the same

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[Bradstreet vs. Huntington.]

terms used in the general instruction, and make this part of it
to mean " that one tenant in common entering into possession
of land under a deed for the whole, and claiming the entire
interest, would not be precluded from setting up an adverse
possession: provided the proof-was sufficient in other respects
to establish the fact of such adverse possession."
And where is the objection to such an instruction? If one
tenant in common may be disseised by another; if one tenant
in common may set up an adverse possession against his cotenant, provided he has adequate proof of the fact of its adversary character; it would seem that this instruction imports no
more
On this part of the case, however, there exists a division of
opinion on the construction of the charge: three of the judges
thinking that it falls short of the proposition as I have stated
it; and two others concurring in my view of its construction.
In support of the construction, which those who concur with
me adopt, I have farther to remark:
1. That the court below might very well have withheld
this instruction, since, in fact, there is no legal tenancy in
common in the case. The action of ejectment deals altogether
with legal estates. Mere equities are unknown to it; and yet
the tenancy in common set up in this case is altogether destitute of a legal character. At no time had the plaintifPs lessor
a scintilla of right, known to the common law, until she received the deed of 1804. Until that time, the only eslate that
can be recognised in this form of action was in Schuyler, or in
Evans and Goold; if not in the defendant Potter, as has before
been noticed. It surely cannot be contended that Potter heldas tenant in common with Goold, since Goold either in his
own right, as assuming a false character, or in the right of Sir
Charles Gould, as having acted in his true one; was one of the
grantors under whom, and against whom, Potter entered.
2. There was no tenancy in common, because Potter entered in fact in his own right, under a deed conveying a fee
simple in the entirety. Such it is as to the act of Evans and
wife, and such it purports to be as to the act of Edward Goold,
or of Sir Charles Gould. It has been earnestly insisted that
the entry of Potter under that deed must be, presumed to be
according to the title actually acquired under it, supposing it

SUPREME COURT.
(Bradstreet os. Huntington.]

to be void as to\Sir Charles Gould; and not according to the
estate which it purports to convey. But to this there are sei4-al answers, and the first alone is conclusive; to wit, that
the evidence expressly repels the presumption. *ie entered
under that deed as the sole, exclusive, absolute owner in fee;
this is altogether inconsistent with an entry to the use of himself and another. And this seems to be no longer an open
question in New York, even on the subject of legal inference.
For in the case of Jackson vs. Smith, which was tht case
where one tenant ih common conveyed the whole, and this
very point was made; the court repels the inference in favour
of the entry as tenant in common, and declares the contrary
to be the proper inference. And in the case of Clapp vs. Bromagham, 9 Cowan 551y 552, 553, which was another case of a
conveyance of the whole by one tenant in common, the same
doctrine is' repeated in terms. That part of this bill of exceptions which relates to the proof, seems to have been nearly copied from the case of Clapp vs. Bromagham; in which the bill of
exceptions stated that 'the defendant entered as purchaser of
the whole, and held as tenant in severalty, claiming to be sole
and exiclusive owner.
Again, although it were the true inference of law, nothing
can be clearer than that it might be repelled by proof, and
that the jury might well find 'the contrary to be the fact:
their verdict in this case is equivalent to such a finding; and
for ought that we can judicially know, such a finding may have
been sustained by proof of ouster, notice, forcible repulsion,
leasing and receiving rents; or any other competent proof of
the character of his entry, and the assertion of rights under it.
3. if there was a tenancy in common, 'the law appears to
be definitively settled in New Ybrk, that the grantee of one
tenant in common for the whole, entering on such conveyance,
and holding as sole owner, may set up the statute against his
co-tenants in common. And to this effect we have before us
an adjudged case, in which there seems to have been neither
S4 actual ouster, or actual or constructive notice to the cotenants. - This is th6 case of Clapp vs. Bromagham, decided
in 1827, and before referred to for another purpose; in which
one of 'nine tenants in common sold the whole premises to
the defendant, who entered and held as his sole and exclsive

JANUARY TERM. 1831
[Bradstreet -vs. Huntington.]

property. It is distinctly shown by the.court, that the only
question in that case was whether the defendant might set up
his possession, to the exclusion of his co-tenants; and decided
that he might; upon the most elaborate argument and profound
examination.
In that case the decision of this court in the case, of Ricard
vs. Williams is cited, 7 Wheat. 60, and recognised as laying
down the "true principle by which this class of cases must be
governed: to wit, that in the absence of all controlling circumstances to the contrary, the eniry of one having right
shall be held to be according to f' right: that an ouster or
disseisin is not to be presumed from the mere fact of sole possession; but that "it may be proved by such possession,"
accompanied by a notorious claim f an exclusive right.
This decision, according to our view of it, leaves no scope
for speculation.
4. On the subject of this equitable tenancy in- common,
against which we must again enter our protest as a novus
hospes in the action of ejectment, it may be further remarked;
that if it is to be regarded in our deliberations on the law of
the case, it is to be presumed that it must be treated as if we
,were sitting in a court of equity: and then it would certainly
be appropriate to examine it in all its equitable aspects.
And first, is the deed to Potter to be regarded as the deed
of Sir Charles Gould, or is it not? If not, then clearly Potter
is not to be affected by any equity which Mrs Bradstreet might
set up against Sir Charles Gould. If it is to be considered his
deed, then other equitable considerations present themselves.
It is his deed, executed by his attorney, Edward Goold. But
Mrs Bradstreet also makes title through Edward Goold; naming himself attorney to Sir Charles Gould, and reciting that
as his character in conveying to her.
Then, if Potter is to be affected with equitable notice, or
equitable duties, as being his substitute; why is not Mrs Bradstreet to be similarly affected in the character of his alienee or
substitute? If so, she is bound to do whatever Potter might
in equity have claimed of Edward Goold; and that is a conveyance in fee, in severalty, of th-e land in question. But I
repeat, this is invoicing the action of ejectment in subtleties
that are unknown to it.

SUPREME COURT.
[Bradstreet vs. Huntington.]

5. But it is insisted, that though the point of tenancy in
common be got over, there are others in-the ease that are to be
removed: and 1st. That as there is no proof of the power from
Sir Charles Gould to Ludlow 'and Goold; the deed to Potter
places him as to the interest of Mrs Bradstreet in the relation
of one having no title, or a void title.
As to an entry under a void title, that has met with such pointed
answers from this court, andthe courts of New York, that it can
scarcely require a laboured examination. The bar of the statute
is acknowledged to originate in wrong. In the case of LaFranboise, 8 Cowan, 594, 596, the supreme court of New York
say "that if a party have a deed, he need not produce it; and
if on production it proves defective, that does not affect the
And when the court of errors
character of the possession."
come to examine that ddctrine, they affirm it in more general
and emphatic language. The only case which suggests a
gloubt as to its appliability, is that of Jackson vs. Waters, 12
Johns. Rep. 365, decided in the same courts. But, though
that case be not shaken by subsequent decisions, it is enough
to observe of it, that it had its origin in-a peculiar policy, or
rather in, the common law principle that the king cannot be
It was the case ofa Cgnadian grant
disseised or be a disseisor
conflicting with a New York grant: and the case- of Clapp vs.
Bromagham, as well as other adjudged cases show, that as between parties to mesne conveyances the principle ceases to
apply. Thus, though the king cannot be a disseisor, his grantee shall be held such; and the reason given is "becausehe
has time and leisure to inquire into the legality of his title,
which the king is supposed to want leisure for." Bro. Tit.
Disseisin, 65.
6. It is further urged that the bar is set up against the same
title, and therefore incompetent. But this reason has been
repeatedly disposed of by this court, and monst recently in the
case of the town of Pawlet, in which it is ruled that it is no.
objection to setting up a possession as adverse. The passage
has been already in part quoted.
7. That the deed of 1790 places Potter either in the relation of Sir Charles Gould, who was trustee to Mrs Bradstreet,
or of Mrs Bradstreet, who was cestui qui trust. But this admits of two answers: either the deed as to her was void, or it

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[Bradstreet vs. Huntington.]

was not. If not, it destroys her interest by an effectual transfer to Potter; and if it was void, then it could not create the
relation contended for. If the confirmation through the deed
of Schuyler is resorted to, then the answer is still more complete: for that deed expressly recognises the right to sell: and
if it does put Potter upon inquiry, the result is that he might
fairly and honestly acquire a complete title by sale, discharged
of her equity, since either Schuyler or Gould might sell consistently with The trust. So that he. may have taken a void
title from one or the other; but the integrity of his conduct in
taking it is such, that no principle of equity can make him
either trustee or cestui qui trust, under either the original or
confirmatory deed. He may have been ill advised, in a legal
point of view, in taking the one orthe other title; but if there
is no immoral act on his part, merely taking a void deed will
not make him a trustee: -nottaking an effectual deed from oe
who has the power to sell and is expressly charged to sell for
the benefit of plaintiff. lie is not to be affected by the frad
of the trustee; when he so clearly appears to have acted
'innocently, and in good faith.
If in taking a title of the whole from Evans and Wife, he
has in fact taken a void tittm from them for Mrs Bradstreet's
interest, he has a right to put himself upon his wrong; and if
he has proved an actual adverse possession under it, he has a
right to the benefit of his bar. The Evans's never were trustees to Mrs Bradstreet, neither under any of the wills, or under
Schuyler's deed. Edward Goold alone was the trustee for her
under the latter; legally in his own right, equitably as attorney to Sir Charles Gould.
No fidtciary relation, therefore, is imputable to Potter, as
claiming under the Evans's; because they themselves were
never affected with the character of trustees: and not through
Goold, because his deed, if good, was absolute against the
plaintiff, and if bad, conveyed nothing to Potter.
If the attempt isto impute to Potter the relation of trustee,
because Schuyler was trustee, and he claims through or under
Schuyler; the answer is, that if his paper title, as it is termed
is the subject to be considered, then he claims from Schuyler
through Evans and Goold: and as Goold had the legal estate
in him, so must Potter have; and Mrs Bradstrcet must seek

SUPREME COURT.
[Bradstreet vs. Huntington.]

her redress in equity. Against Goold, at law, she certainly
could not recover.. But even in equity, how would her right
stand? A sale by Goold was perfectly consistent with the trust
for her benefit; and considering the bonafide character of Potter's purchase, I can see no ground for granting her relief as
against him. Notice of her equity, without fraud or collusion,
can afford none; since notice of the right in her trustee to sell
must accompany it, or rather is a part of it. If the subject of
inquiry, as it relates to Schuyler, is respecting the maintenance of Potter's bar, then he need not assert his possession as
adverse to Schuyler; it is enough for his purpose if adverse to
Evans, or Evans and'Goold: and that it might well be so held,
although he claims under them, has been, as we have seen distinctly and. repeatedly laid down in this court. If it began
to run against them, it continued for the necessary length of
time.
That one may hold adversely to him from whom he purchases has -long been settled, both in this court and in the
courts of the states of the United States; the fact of possession
and the quo animo, being stilt the legal subjects of inquiry.
8. It has been argued that whatever may be the rule in ordinary cases, in this, the proof of notice was indispensable;
since these lands were wild or waste lands, notoriously uninhabited; andmere possession of wbichwas not enough to put the
trustee or co-tenants upon their remedy.
To this it may be answered, that for any thing appearing in
the bill of euceptions the lands may not. have been waste or
wild; ana the proof of Potter's efitering immediately and
claiming to be sole and exclusive owner, would seem to repel
the fact.
But the true answer is the general one, which was before
given on the subject of notice, that we know not but proof of
notice, or presumption of.notice. may have been the grounds
on which the jury found their verdict. As a proof of a
"claiming to be sole and exclusive ownef," it was an adequate
and natural ground; and certainly as a fact may have been inferred from length of possession, and other circumstantial evidence, of the weight of which they must be the judges.
Judgment affirmed, with costs.

