604

THE

SUPREME COURT.

PATAI'SCO INSURANqE COMPANY, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR

VS. JoIfN SOUTHGATE AND WRIGHT SorTHGATE, DEFFiNDANTS IN ERRtR,
It'the caption of a deposition, taken before the mayor of Norfolk, to be used
in a cause depending, and afterwards tried in'the circuit court of the United
States held ih Baltimore, the mayor stated the witness " to be a resident in
Norfolk;" and in his certificate he states, that the reason for taking the deposition is," that the witness lives at a greater distance than one hundred miles
from the place of ttial,to'wit, in the borough of Norfolk." It was sufficiently
shown by this certificate, at least prima facie, that the witness lived at a greater
distance than one hundred miles from the place of trial.
The provisions of the thirtieth section of the act of congress, entitled, "an act
to establish the judicial courts of the United States," which relate to the taking
of depositions of witnesses, whose testimony shall be necessary in any civil
cause depending in any district in the couits of the United Stites, who reside
at a greater distance than one hundred miles from the place of trial; are not
confined lo depositions taken within the district where the court is held.
In all cases where, under the authority of the act of congress, a deposition of a
witness is taken de bene esse, except where the witness liYes at a greater distance from the place of trial than one hundred miles, it is incumbent on the
party for whom the deposition is taken, to show that the disability of the witness to attend continues; the disability being supposed temporary, and the only
impediment to a compulsory attendance. The act declares expressly, that unless this disability shall be made to appear on the trial, such deposition shall not
be admitted, or used on the trial. This inhibition does not extend to the deposition of a witness living at a greater distance from the place of trial than
one hundred miles; he being considered beyond a compulsory attendance.
The deposition of a witness living beyond one hundred miles from the place of
trial, may notalways be absolute; for the party against whom it is to be used may
prove the witness has removed within the reach of a subpona, after the deposition was taken; and if that fact was known to the party, he would be bound
to procure his personal 'attendanie. The onus probandi this would rest
upon the party opposing the admission of the deposition in evidence. For
a witness whose deposition is taken under such circumstances, it is not necessary to issue a subpcena. It would be a useless act;, the witness could not be
compelled to attend pergonally.
By the act of 2d March 1793, subpmnas for witnesses may run into districts
other than where the court is sitting; provided the witness does not live at a
greater distance than one hundred miles from the place of holding the court.
Damages to a vessel by any of the perils of the sea, on the voyage insured, which
could not be repaired at the port to which such vessel'proceeded after the injury, viithout an expenditure bf money to an amount exce~d.ing half the value
of'the vessel at that port, after such repairs, constitute a total loss.
The rule laid'ilown in the books is general, that the value of the vessel at tlie
time, of the accident is the true basis of calculation; and if so, it necessarily follow& that it must be the value at the place where the accident occurs. The

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[The Patapsco Insurance Company as. Southgate et at.]
sale is not conclusive with respect to such value. The question ia.epen for
other evidence; if any suspicion of fraud or misconduct rests upon the transaction.
As a general proposition, there can be no doubt that the injury to the vessel may
be so great as to justify a sale by the master. There must be this implied authority in the master, from the nature of the case. He, from necessity. becomes the agent of both parties, and is bound in good faith to act for the benefit of all concerned; and the underwriter must answer for the consequences,
because it is within his contract of indemnity.
There must be a necessity for a sale of the vessel, and good faith in the master
in making it; and the necessity is not to be inferred, from the fact of the sale in
good faith; but must be determined from the circumstances. The professional
skill, the due and proper diligence of the master, his opinion of the necessity,
antl the benefit that would result from the sale to all concemed, would not
justify it; unless the circumstances under which the vessel was placed rendered
the sale necessary in the opinion of the jury.
There is some diversity of opinion among the elementary writers, and in the adjudged cases, as to what will constitute a valid abandonment. It seems however agreed, that no particular form is necessary; nor is it indispensable that it
should be in writing. But in whatever form it is made, it ought to be explicit;
and not left open as matter of inference, from some equivocal acts. .The assured must yield up to the underwriter all his right, title, and interest in the
subject insured; for the abandonment, when properly made, operates as a transfer of the property to the underwriters, and gives him a title to it, or what remains of it; as far as it was covered by Jhe policy.
The consul of the United States at the port where a vessel was sold, in consequence of her having, in the opinion of the master, sustained damages, the repairs of which would have cost more than half her vhlue at that port, declared
in the protest of the captain, made at his request, that the captain abandoned
the vessel, &c. to the underwriters. This protest, as soon as it was received
by the assured, the owners of the vessel, was sent to the underwriters; and
the ownerg wrote at the same time that they would forward a statement of the
loss with the necessary vouchers, and they soon afterwards did forward the
further proofs, and a statement of the loss to them. This constituted a valid,
abandonment.

ERROR from the circuit court of the -district of Maryland.
The defendants in error instituted an action against the Patapsco Insurance Company, in the circuit court of Maryland,
on a policy of insurance on the schooner Frances, Seaward,
master, from Curacoa,. or a port of departure in the West
Indies, or on the Maine, to -a port in the United States. On
her voyage from Carthagena to Norfolk the Frances encountered a seiere gale, and sustained such injuries as made it
necessary for her, after two days, to put back to Carthagena:
on entering that port she struck several times on a sand bar;
And on examination it was found that she required considerable repairs in her hull and rigging. She was placed, by the

SUPREME COURT.
[The Patapsco Insurance Company vs. Southgate et al.]

captain under the care of the American consul at Varthagena;
and was sold by him at private sale to Evans for one hundred
and forty dollars, with the consent of the captain. Evans afterwards sold the Frances to Palmer for two hundred dollars.
She was repaired by Palmer, and returned to the United States.
The plaintiffs claimed a total loss from the underwriters.
On the trial in the circuit court, the defendants took exceptions to the opinions of the court, on points submitted by the
plaintiffs and by the defendants, for instructions to the jury;
which, with the facts of the case, are fully stated in the opinion of the court.
' The deposition of Thomas Evans was offered in evidence, by
the plaintiffs below; and after exceptions to its legality by the
defendants, was admitted by this court. The deposition was
taken, ex parte, at Norfolk, before the mayor ofVthat place.
In the caption, the mayor states the witness to be a resident in
Norfolk; and in his certificate declares the reason for taking it
to be, that the witness "lives at a greater distance than one
hundred miles from the place of trial, to wit: at the borough
Norfolk." No subpcena was issued for Evans, and no other
evidence was offered of the place of his residence, than the caption of the deposition in the. handwriting of the mayor of Norfolk.
The jury having found a verdict for the plaintiff in the cir.
cuit court, the defendants prosecuted this writ of error.
The case was argued by Mr Mayer and Mr Wirt for the
plaintiffs in error; and by Mr Stewart and Mr Taney for the
defendants.
For the plaintiffs in error it was contended:
The deposition, ex parte, of Evans, ought not to have been
admitted in evidence; because the act of congress allowing depositions of this kind is not to be construed to extend to depositions taken at a place, to which a subpoena from the court
of trial will not reach. Only depositions,. do bene esse, maybe
taken under the act; and de bene esse, ex vi termini, imports a
power, by .ordinary common law process, to obtain theevidence; and a subpcena is that ordinary nieans. 3 Wash. C. C.
R. 415, 529. At least no such deposition can be read, unless
due diligence be first used to obtain the attendance of the wit-

JANUARY TERM 1831.

607.

tThe Patapsco Insurance Company vs. Southgate et aL.]

ness at the trial, or his evidence under commission, according
to the rul6 of the court. 2 Wash. C. C. R. -487. 4 Was.
. C. R. 215. 1 Peters's C. C. R. 291. Nothing to this effect was in proof at the trial.
No evidence was offered to show that the vessel was injured
by any of the accidents insured against injury, beyond one half
of her value. The underwriters do not instire the goodness of
the ship; and the deficiencies, which form the ground of the
claim, must be traced to the disaster which has befallen the vessel within the perils of the policy, and must be proved and
measured by regular details and estimates. Cazalet Vs. St
Barbe, 1 T. R. 190. 1 Johns. Rep. 336. FOntaine vs. Phenix Insurante Company, 11 Johns.Rep. 295. It may also b6 questioned, whether, in the estimating of the
injury to be beyond one half, the customary rule must not be
observed, of deducting from the repairs one third on account of
the new work. 3 Mas. 75. 2 Caines' Ca. Er. 157. It is true,
the insurer, if the abandonment be valid, will have the vessel,
and consequently the benefit of the new work; but the very
inquiry here is, whether the abandonment be well grounded;
and that is to be learnt only by seeing what injury is really
sustained. That necessarily refers us to the value of the old
work, in its competent condition, at the commencement of the
risk; nothing more being incumbent on the insurer by -his contract, than to replace the insured property in its original state,
either specifically or by a pecuniary equivalent.
It is not settled to what place the estimate of the vessel's
worth, when supposed to be repaired, is to be referred; when the
ascertainment is making whether she will be worth repairing.
It is to be presumed her value, in her improved condition at
her home port, is most just; because, there the vessel is to be
.available to the owners for sale or enterprise; and the natural
occupation of a vessel, to carry merehandize, Will be supposed
to be the object of the owners in having her at a foreign port,
and not the sale of the vessel. 11 Johns. Rep. 295. 2 Caines'
Ca. Er. 157. 2 Mason, 71. All analogr from the settlement
of the contribution, in general averages, authorizes the present
construction. Marshall, 621, 628.
But an abandonment was necessary for sustaining a claim of
total loss, admitting the vessel to have been deteriorated by.

SUPREME COURT.
[The Patapsco Insurance Company vs. Southgate et al.]

the disasters, beyond one half of her value. Phill. 383. 1
T. R. 611.
There was neither an actual nor constructive abandonment
here. An abandonment must be explicitand absolute, and must
use terms of cession, that, by clear intent, transfer the property
in the thing insured. A mere claim for total loss will not
avail as an abandonment. Parmeter vs. Toddhunter, 1 Camp.
451. Turner vs. Edwards, 12 East, 488. Phil]. Ins. 447.
Marsh. Ins. 600.

The protest does not amount to an abandonment in this case,
.though transmitted by the insured, and containing words of
abandonment in the close of it; because not made by the persons having the property in the thing insured, and because
the insured transmitted it to the underwriters only as a protest,
or detail of the circumstances of the loss.
If there be evidence of abandonment, it is, nevertheless, necessary under the policy in this cause, to show notice of an intention to abandon. The abandonment and the notice: it has
been decided in Catlett vs. Columbian Insurance Company, 12
Wheat. 393, may operate by one instrument. But the instrument should contain words of a prospective import. That is
not the 'ease in any of the written acts of the parties here.
if there was an abandonment, yet the state of the vessel
must be regarded as the vessel was at the time of the abandon.
ment. She had then been repaired, at a trivial expense; and,
the sale being a nullity, she was in the hands of the insurdrs in
point of law. Though supposed once to be irretrievably injured, she was not so then; and her repairs having proved to
be practicable at so small a sum, demonstrated that she never
was actually thus injured. In reference to this point, on the
time of abandoning, the case must be treated in analogy to that
of a capture and re-capture.
Only extreme necessity will justify a sale by the master;
and that necessity must be found by'the jury to l'ave existed:
and the jury, and not the master, is the arbiter on that issue of
.iecessity, upon a view of all the circumstances of the case. The
honest discretion of the captain is not the sanction here; however that discretion may be conclusive as to all proceedings
withi,, the sphere of his ordinary business as master. A sale
is, howtver, without those limits; and must be justified by a

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[The Patapsco Insurance Company vs. Southgate et al.]

superadded agency, which only the force of circumstances can
confer upon him. It is not enough, therefore, that the master
shall appear to theojury to have had an honest view to his owner's interest in a sale of the ship; but the jury must find that,
according to the aspect and state of things, the sale was in fact
for the owner's interest, because of the necessity to resort to
that measure. Itmust be an interest createdby the exigency,
'and not produced by any collateral circumstances beyond
those connected with the restoration of the vessel. All the
authorities may in this view be 6asily explained and reconciled,
where on this head they use the terms, "4for the best of all
concerned;" "6for the benefit of the concerned;" " as a prudent man uninsured would do;" as applied to the master's discretional sale of the vessel. All these rules come round to the
principle of the necessity, within which strictly the qubstion of
the owner's interest on the emergency lies. What is a case
of necessity depends on the circumstances and many varieties
of accident; but a necessity, in rcfQrcnce to a sale, may be said
to be the state of things which, from actual ascertainment where
practicable, or from appearances, where they can alone be consulted, requires instant action; and where there is a choice
only between the certain or probable loss of the vessel, and
the saving of so much of her as the proceeds of a sale may yield.
Every case of necessity must exhibit a perspective destruction, or an injury already sustained, to a degree irreparable, or
demonstrating, in connexion with the expense, that repairs
would be an idle waste of money. The first instance is an example of mere jeopardy; the latter is the case thqt should now be
before the court to entitle the insured to succeed. The case of
jeopardy is to be found by the jury, from the threatening perils of the ship; the case of sustained injury, from the fact of her
actual condition, and the well ascertained expense of repairs, and
the value of the vessel after repairs, determined, upon some
sure data. Hayman vs. Molton, 5 Esp. R. P. -C. 67. Reid
vs. Darby, 10 East, 343. Miller vs. Fletcher, 1 Doug. 231.
Read vs. Bonham, 7 Serg. and Lowb. 386. Scull vs. Briddle,
2 Wash. C. C. R. 150. Queen vs. Union Insurance Company, 2 Wash. C. C. R. 331. Church vs. Marine Insurance
Company, I Mason, 341. Robinson vs. .Clark, S Serg.. and
Lowb.*'376. Ludlow vs. Columbian Insurance Company, 1
VOL V.-4- B

SUPREME COURT.
EThe Patappco Insurance Company ,vs. Soutbgate et al.]

Johns.Rep. ° 336. Phil. Ins. 395, 408, 409, 412. Marsh. 580.
Fontaine vs. Phcenix Iiisurance Company, 11 Johns. Rep.
295. Idle vs. Royal'Ex. Ass. Company, 4 Serg. and Lowb.
Z79, and note of this case ili 7 Serg. and LQwb. 386. Green'
vs. Royal Ex. Ass. Company, 6 Taunt. 71. 2 Kent. Com.
134. Plantamour vs. Staples, 1 T. R. 611 (note), as to
which case J.. Butler's words are mis quoted in Marsh. 582,
and in Idle -vs. Royal Ex. Ass. Company, 4 Serg. and Lowb.
279.

After an abandonment once effectually made, the master
becomes the agent of the insurers. For the purposes of this
case, it may be admitted, that in that,event he is exclusively
their agent. And the books must be understood to refer to
,the master's agency after a valid abandonment, wherm sometimes they speak of his discretion as agent. Phil. Ins. 468,
471. Marsh. 615, a. 2 Wash. C. C. R. 61. 6 Cranch R.
272. And the clause in the policies which authorized the insurer and his agents to -labour, travail, 4-c., withaut prejudice to the insurance," refers only to the conduct of the
master after a complete ground for abandonment has occurred.
1 T. R: 613. Marsh. 334, 615. 2 Wash. C. C. R. 61.
No necessity for a sale is shown here. 1 T. R. 190.
Well settled principles of insurance law are opposed to mak'ing the sale of the master the measure, or ground, of the
claim. It is settled that an insurer is never to be involved by
the Auctuation of the market. Marsh. 628. So the adventure of
the ship is never considered as insured in connexion with the
ship. 'An insurance on the ship is upon the ship for the voyage, not on th-e ship and voyage; showing that.the thing itself,
and not its speculation or fluctuating value, is always regarded
in the determination of the insurer's liability. Phill. Ins. 283.
4 Cranch,. 370, 373. So, it is settled that the goodness of the
*ship -is not insured; but the contract only is, that she shall not
be rendered defective by certain accidents: a principle that
would be overthrown if the insarer were to be made liable according to the state of the market for ships at any casual port
of distress. 1 T. R. 190. So it is said to be repugnant
to the contract of indemnity, which a policy of insurance is,
that one. shall recover for a total loss, where the eveint shows

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[The Patapsco Insurance Company vs. Soutbgate et aL.]

there was, in fact-and intrinsically, only a partial loss. :Marsh.
575. 2 Burr, 1198. Hamilton vs. Mendez, Phill. 395, 326.
The insurer ought not to pay less, nor, the insured to receive more, than the amount of actualloss; that is, an amount
commensurate with the physical injury, and required to repair
that injury. Marsh. 677. Fontaine vs. Pheenix Insurance
Company, 11 Johns. Rep. 295. There is no right to abandon,
on the supposition of events which turn out to have been misconceived. Bainbridge vs. Neilson, 10 East, 343.,
The sale in this case was void; the mate and the captain
being interested in the purchase, having no right to inake
the purchase at the first sale: nor Palmer at the final disposition
of her, because Palmer was one of the surveyors: by the survey he promoted the sale, and stood, therefore, in a fiduciary relation with the owners of the vessel, which disabled him
from being a purchaser. The insured had a right to vacate
the sale, and the sale being in point of law, null at the election
of the insured, will be regarded as absolutely so, as to the insurers,whether the insured actually make an election or not.
5 Esp. 67. Church vs. Marine Insurance Company, 1 Mason 351. Baker vs. Insurance Company,- 2 Mason 370. 6
Pick. 198. 1 Esp. 237. 4 Binney, 386. Phill. Ins. 423.
This being then a case where there has been no abandonpient, and the act pf the master, by a sale, not being,. in law,
competent to make the loss actually total, and the ship-'in consequence of the absolute nullity of the sale being deemed t
be specifically in the hands of the insured; the claim here can
only be for a partial loss, to the extent of the sum required
to repair at"Carthagena the real injury sustained by the vessel.
Mr Stewart and Mr Taney; for the defendants, contended:
The deposition of Evans, taken before the mayor of Norfiolk, was admissible in evidence. It was objected to, on the
grounds "that no subpcena had been issued for him, and no
evidence, out of the deposition, produced as to his residence,
or any inability on his part to attend the trial."
It was not denied, that the provisions of the act of congress
had been strictly pursued. The officer, by whom the deposition was taken, had the power, and he was under no disqualifi-

-

SUPREME COURT.
[The Patapsco Insurance Company vs. Southgate et aI.j

cation to e.Urcise it; the oath was administered in due form,
and a due return made of the deposition, with a certificate of
the reasons for taking it. But it was said that the depbsition
was only de bene esse, and that until, by the return of a subpmna, or by some other mode of proof, to the, court, it Was shown
that his attendance cdulH not be had, the deposition could not
be read. It was insisted, that the act of September 24th, 1789,.
was passed to facilitate the administration of justice, to render
it more convenient and less expensive, and that every caution
and check had been employed in the requisitions of that act, to
prevent the dangers likely to attend ex.parte examinations.
That the ceremony of issuing a subpcena was not in the contemplation of that act, because where the ploce of trial was in
one of the United States, and the residence of the witness in
another state, at a greater distance than one hundred miles
from the place of trial, the subpcena would be unavailing.
The act intended to reach all cases, where the witness resided
at a greater distance than one hundred miles from the place of
the trial; the whole object of that law being the procurement
of testimony, under suitable sanctions, and in the manner least
burdrnsome to the suitors and witnesses. Depositions taken
at that distance were de bene esse, only in case the witness
was within the reach of the process of the court at the time
of the trial, with the knowledge of the patty seeking to use
the deposition.
In providing for this contingent arrival of the witness within
the process of the court, the depositions were styled de bene
6sse.
Under the opposite construction, a commission would be
the only mode to take the testimony of witnesses residing
out of the district, at a greater distance than one hundred
miles: upon what principle can we so limit the operation of a
law, whose words are.general and comprehensive. In all the
cases in the enacting clause, the depositions are absolute, unless
the witnesses are afterwards shown to be within the reach of
the process of the court.
In the case of the Lessee of Barent etux. vs. Day, 3 Wash.'
C. C. R. 244; a subpcena' was dispensed with, because the
witness was shown to be so advanced in sge as to be unable
to attend.

JANUARY TERM 1831
[The Patapsco Insurance Company vs. Southgate et al.]

In the case of Beale-vs. Thompson and Maris, reported in 8
Cranch 71, a deposition taken under the act of congress in New
Hampshire, was offered in evidence in the circuit court for the
district of Columbia, and rejected, because opened out of court.
No objection was there made upon the ground taken in the
case in 3 Wash. C. C. R. 414.
The counsel for the defendant in-error referred to the case
of Bell vs. Morrison, et al. 1 Peters, 356, to show, that the tertificate of the magistrate taking the deposition is good evidence
of the facts therein stated.
If the damage done to the vessel by the peril of the sea'on
the voyage insured could not be repaired without an expenditure of money, to an amount exceeding hhlf her value at the
port of Carthagena, after such repairs, the plaintiffs had. a right
to abandon and recover for a total lo~s.
It was contended that this rule was a positive one, originating in the convehience of having a precise test in all cases.
Cited Smith vs. Bell, 2 Caines' Ca. inError, 153. Center vs.
American Insurance Company, "7Cow. 564. Peele vs. The
Merchants' Insurance Company, 3 Mason's Rep. 28, 69, 72.
3 Kent's Com. 276.
If upon the information obtained, and the circumstances
known to the captain at the time of the sale in question, after
due and diligent inquiry, it was alsolutely neceisary, and for
the intereit of the concerned, that the vessel should be sold; and.
if a prudent and discreet owner, placed in the like circumstance, would have come to the same conclusion, and sold the
vessel in like manner; then the sale made by the captain was
justifiable, and the plaintiffs had a right to, abandon: whether
such a necessity existed-at the time of the sale, was a qdestion proper for the jury to decide according to the rule stated
in the opinion of the court.
It was contended, that the master of a vessel has a right to
sell the vessel, in a case of extreme necessity; that upon the
happening "of any unforeseen emergency, which 'requires
prompt and decisive action by the master, he becomes the.
agent of all parties, and is competent to bind them.'by acts
done within the scope of the agency, and done with good faith,
and for the benefit of all concerned; that the sale described
in the testimony was made so in the prosecution, of such

SUPREME COURT.
EThe Patapsco Insurance Company vs. Southgate et al.]

an agency, arising from a condition of extreme necessity.;
was. made honestly, without knowledge of the insurance,
and for the advantage of all concerned in the adventure.
All. the transactions at Carthagena, after the return of the
schooner Frances to port, in a most disabled and unseaworthy
condition, took place under the auspices and sanction
of the United States consul, whose officiaf station invited
confidence, and was to be deemed a sure guarantee of the
diligence and fidelity of the captain, in the' absence of all
proof to the contrary. Hayman vs. Molton; 5 Esp. 65.
Mills vs. Fletcher, Douglas, 2a1. Plantamour 1s. Staples,, i
.D.and E. 611 (note). Robertson vs. Caruthers, 3 S. and L,
479. Idle ti. The Royal Ex. Ass. Company, 4 S. and L.
Read vs. Bonham, 7 S; and L. 384. Robertson vs. Clarke, 8
S. and L., 373. Scull vs. Briddle, 2 Wash, C; C. R. 151.
Fontaine vs. The Phcenix Insurance Company, 11 Johnh. 293.
Centre vs. The American Insurance Company, 7 Cowven, 564,
582. Gordon vs. MasE. Fire and Mar. Ins. Comp. 2 Pick.
249. Phillips on Ins. 408.
The letters of the plaintiffs, dated May 1st and May'Sth,
184, together with the documents and accounts transmitted
with them, were a sufficient abandonment. It was contended that there is no prescribed form in v.hich an abandonment is to- be made: that any act manifesting the intention of
the'insured to look to the insurer for the stipulated iidemnity,
constitutes a sufficient abandonment, upon which to base a claim
for a total loss; and that the correspondence between the parties demonstrated that they. ti eated the claim as a claim
for a total loss, in connexion with an implied surrender of all
the property to the insurers. 8 D. and E., 273. 3 Yeates,
378. Condy's .Marshall, 599, b. 1 Binney, 47. 7S. and L.
384.

4S.andL. 272. ,

It was also contended, that inasmuch as the protest (one of the
transmitted documents)" contained a formal abandonment in
terms of cessioi, and claimed for a total loss, it became, bythe transmission of it, the abaodonment of the assured. It
was the act of an agent, adopted, as soon as it was known, by
the principal; and was .therefore a valid and formal cession of
the plaintiff's property,
The sale by the captain beingjstified by the circumstances
of necessity under which it was madveivested the defendants

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[The Patapsco Insurance Compauy vs. Southgate et al

in error of their legal title to the vessel, and therefore left
nothing to abandon. Storer-vs. Gray, 2 Mass.' 565. Gordon
vs. Mass. Fire and Marine Insurance Company, 2 Pick. 249.
It was further insisted, that in such a ase an aband&nmeat
'would be an idle ceremony. The oljeet of an abandonment
is, to subrogate the insurer to all the rights and property of
the insured; but if these xights and property w6me divested by
a legal and justifiable sale, an abandonment was useless as wel
as inoperative.
Mr Justice THo-rrsoN delivered *theopinion of the Court.
This case is brought here oi g writ of' error to the -circuit
court of the United States for the Maryland' district.. The
action is on 'a policy of insu'rance, dated 'the\ 20th March
1824, upon the schooner Frances, Seaward, master; valued-at
two thousand five hundred dollars, lost or not lost, of a voyage
from Curacoa, or a port of departure in the West'Indies,-or
on the main, to a port in the United States. "
The schooner sailed from Norfolk, on the outward voyage,
in Jandary 1824, and arrived and remained at Curacoa six or
seven days, and proceeded thence to Carthagena, where she
arrived on the 15th of February following; and having taken
in a return cargo, proceeded on her return voyage to Norfolk;
and. after being at sea about twenty hours, she encountered a
vary heavy gale of wind, and received such injury that it was
deemed.necessary to return to Carthagena. The captain re-.
ported the vessel to the American. consul, who ordered, a survey to be held upon her: and she was afterwards sold by
the consul to Thomas Evans for one hundred and forty. dollars, who purchased the schooner in his own name; but it was
understood that captain Seaward was to be concerned with
him; and he furnished the .money to 'buy her; and Seaward
afterwards sold her to Ralmer, for upwards of two hundred
dollars, who repaired her and returned with her to the .United
States,
Upon' the trial, several bills'of exceptions were taken -on
the paft of the dtiendants in- the court below,"' and who are
the plaintiffs .here; upon which bills of exceptions, are presented the questions brought into this court for review. The
first question relates to the admissibility, as'evidence, of the de-

SUPREME COURT.
[The Patapsco Insurance Company vs. Soutbgate et a].]

position of Thomas Evans, taken, ex parte, before the mayor of
Nqrfok. In the caption of the deposition the witness is stated
-to be a resident of the borough of Norfolk. And the mayor
in his certificate states, that the reason for taking his derosition is that the witness lives at a greater distance than one
hundred miles from the place of trial, to wit, "1in the said borough of Norfolk." It was admitted that the borough of Norfolk is more than one hundred miles from the place of trial:
but thb objection was, that no subpcona for this witness had
been issued, nor any evidence, out of the deposition, produced
at the trial to show his residence, or inability personally to attend the trial. These were the particular objections taken at
the trial; but on the argument here a broader ground has been
assumed: that no ex parte deposition, taken out of the district
where the trial is had, is admissible; but that the testimony
should be taken on a commission issued for that purpbse. We
think neither of these exceptions sufficient to exclude the depo stion.
*In support of the latter objection the case of Evans vs. Hettick, 3 Wash. C. C. R. 417, has been relied on, and which
would seem to sustain the objection. Mr Justice Washington
does there say, that the act of congress must be so construed
as to confine its operations to depositions taken withil the
district, when the witness lives more than one hundred
miles from the place of trial; but when a witness lives out of
the district, and more than one hundred miles from the place
of trial, his deposition, if taken, must be under a commission.
We ihink, however, that this is not the true construction
of the act of. congress (2 L. U. S. 68). It declapeO, that
when the testimony of any person shall be necessary, in any
civil cause depending in any district, in any court of the
United States, who shall live at a greater distance from the
place of trial than one hundred miles, &c., the deposition of
sudh person may be taken de bene ease, &c. The language
here used is general, and is not certainly, in terms, confined to
depositions taken within the district where the court is held.
And if the provision was intended for the convenience of parties, it applies equally to depositions of witnesses living without, as to thp~e living within the district, at a greater distance
than one hundred miles from the place of trial; and all the

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[The Patapsco Insurance Company vs. Southgate. et al.)

dangers supposed-to arise from the taking of ex parte evidence,
apply with equal force to the one case as to the other. It is
saia, however, that the act declares the deposition may bie
taken de bene esse, and if allowed in cases when the witness
lives out of the district, it necessarily becomes absolute, as the
law stood in the year 1789; because a subpena could not be

issued into a distriet'other than where the court was sitting.
But no such consequence is perceived by the court to follow.
The permission to take the deposition of a witness, 64, account
of his distant residence, is connected with a numbdr of other
cases where the deposition may be taken: as when the witness
is bound on a voyage to sea; or about to go.out of the United
States; or out of such d4stri~t; and to a greater distance from
the place of trial than as aforesaid, before the time of trial;or is ancient or very infirm; the deposition may be faken de
bene esse. In all thes.e cases, except where the witness lives
at a greater distance than one hundred miles, it will be incumbent on the party for whom the deposition is taken, to show
at the trial, that the disability of the witness to attend personally continues; the disability being.supposed temporary, and
the only impediment to a compulsory attendance. The act
declares, expressly, that unless the same (that is, the disability)
shall be made to appear on the trial, such deposition shall not
be admitted or used in the cause. This inhibition does not extend to the deposition of a witness living at a greater distance
from the place of trial than one hundred miles; he being considered permanently beyond a compulsory attendance. The
deposition in such case. may not .always be absolute, for the
party against whom it is to be used may prove the ivitness has
removed within the reach of a subpoena after the deposition
was-taken: and if that fact was known to the party, he would
be bound tofPecuire his personal attendance. The onus, however, of proving this wopld rest upon. the party opposing the
admission of the deposition in evidence. -It is, thereford a deposition taken de.bene esse.
It was sufficiently shown,- at least prima facie, that the witness lived at a greater distance than one hundred miles from
the place of trial. This was a fact proper for the inquiry by
the officer who took the deposition, and he has certified that
such is the residence of the witness. In the case'of Bell vs.
VOL. V.-4 C

SUPREME COURT.
[The Patapsco Insurance Company vs. Southgate et aL]

Morrison, 1 Peters, 356, it is decided, that the certificate of
the magistrate is good evidence of the facts therein, stated,
so as to entitle the deposition to be read to the jury.
It was not necessary to issue a subpoena. It would have been
a useless act. The witness could not have been compelled to
attend personally. By the act of March 2d, 1793, 2 L.
U. S. 365, subpoenas for witnesses may run into districts other
than where the court is sitting, provided the witness does not
live at a greater distance than one hundred miles, from the
place of holding the court.
The other exceptions arise upon the instructions given by
the court, upon the prayers of the parties, respectively. After
the testimony had -been closed, each party submitted to the
court several prayers, upon which the instruction of the court
was requested, and the record then states as follows. "Upon
which prayers of the plaintiffs and defendants, respectively, the
court gave the opinions, and instructions, and directions, to
the jury, following:
" 1. That if thejury find from the evidence, that the damage
done to the schooner Frances by any perils of the sea on the
voyage insured, could not be repaired without an expenditure
of" money to an amount exceeding half her value at the port
of Carthagena, after such repairs, then such damage constitutes
a total loss; and the plaintiffs are entitled to recover.
"2. That if thejury find from the evidence, 'that captain Seaward was a man of competent skill in his profession, and that
before he sold the schooner Frances to Palmer, in the manner
stated in the testimony, he used due and proper diligence to
ascertain whether ai sale was necessary, and for the interest of
the concerned: and if upon the information so obtained, and
the circumstances known to him at the time, after due and diligent iiquiry,.it was absolutely neaessary, and for, the interest
of the concerned, that the vessel should be sold; and that a
prudent and discreet *owner, placed. in like circumstances,
would have come to the same conclusion, and sold the vessel
in like manner; and if from all the circumstances of the case
the jury should be of the opinion that the sale was justifiable;
that then the plaintiffs are entitled to recover.
"6On the prayers of the defendants, the cour'Ls directions
were as -follow's:

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[The Patapsco Insurance Company vs. Southgate et al.]

" 1. That the plaintiffs are not entitled to recover for a total
loss, unless the sale at Carthagena was in consequence of urgent and inevitable necessity: that no necessity will justify a
sale by the master, unless it-be urgent and inevitable; in other
words, justifiable.
"c2. That in weighing this necessity, the fact of the sale
having been made, as disclosed by the testimony, is not to-be
conclusive, but the necessity is to be tested by a consideration
of all the circumstances.
"c3. That if the jury shall find from the evidence that the damage which had been sustained by the vessel, at the tinie she
put back to Carthagena, was of trivial'amount; that this damage
could have been repaired at Carthagena for a small sum, and
the vessel thus enabled, after a short delay, to proceed on the
voyage insured, and that the master had the funds to make the
necessary repairs; and if they shall be of opinion that it Was
not such a case of urgent necessity as to justify the sale; then
the plaintiffs are not entitled to recover for a total loss, but can
recover only for a partial loss, according to the circumstances
of the case.
"4. The court are of opinion that the abandonment was
sufficiently made in this case.'
In considering the exceptions taken to the opinion and direction of the court, we thihik; from the manner in which the
prayers were presented, and the instructions given, they may
well be considered together, as one entire direction to the jury,
and not as a separate instruction upon each prayer; and this is
the manner in which they have been treated on the argument
at the bar.
The question arising upon the first instruction relates to the
place where the value of the vessel was to be ascertained, in
order to determine whether there was a total loss. The court
instructed the jury, that if the vessel could not have been repaired, without an expenditure exceeding half her value at the
port of Carthagena, after such repairs, it constituted a total
loss. This direction we think entirely correct. It was not
denied but that the cost of repairs must be ascertained at that
place. But it is said, the value of.the vessel after such repairs
should be determined by the value in the hpme port, or in
the general mark~t: as the njtvry migfit occur. in a place

SUPREME COURT.
[The Patapsco Inisurance Company vs. Southgate et al.]

where the vessel would not be saleable, and the property
might be sacrificed. It is true, this may occur; but it is a circumstance incident to the risk assumed by the underwriter;
and any other rule .would be in maliy cases impracticable.
The purpose for which the value is to be ascertained is to determine the right to abandon; and a delay in doing this might
be considered as waving the abandonment; and the value at
the time the injury happens must necessarily be the rule by
which that right is to be decided.
No case has been referred to, or has fallen under the notice
of the court, intimating the distinction here set up; and we do
not thirk it warranted by the general principles .of insurance
law. The rule laid down in the books is general, that the
value of the vessel at the time of the aqcident is the true basis
of calculation. s Kent's Com. 277. And if so, it necessarily
follows that it must be the value at the place where the accidernt occurs. 'The sale is not conclusive with respect to such
value. The question is open 'for other evidence, if any suspicion of fraud or misconduct rests upon the transaction.
The other questions arising upon the instructions relate to
the sale of the vessel, and the sufficiency of the abandonment.
As a general proposition, there can be no doubt that the injury to thd vessel may be so great, and the necessity'so urgent,
as to justify a sale. There must be this implied authority in
the master, from the nature of the case. He, from necessity,
becomes the.agent of both parties; and is bound in good faith
to act for the benefit of all concerned: and the underwriter
must answer for the consequences, because it is within his contract of indemnity. This- was the doctrine in the case of
Mills vs. Fletcher, 1 Doug. 231; and which has been repeatedly sanctioned by the later decisions, both in England and in
this country. It-is a power, however, that is to be exercised
with great, caution, and only in extreme cases. It is liable to
great abuse; and must, therefore, in the language of some
of the cases, be carefully watched. The difficulty in all
these cases consists principally in the application of a rule to
a given case, and ftot in determining what the rule is. It
was not denied by the counsel for the -plaintiffs in error,
that in cases of extreme and urgent necessity, the master has
the power. to sell, if he acts in good faith, and the circumstances

JANUARY TERM 18$1.
[The Patapsco Insurance Company vs. Soutbgate'et al.1

are such that a jury will find ihe necessity existed. All the
circumstances must be submitted to the jury, and they must
find both the necessity and good faith of the master in order to
justify the sale. Necessity and good faith must concur; and
the necessity is not to be inferred from the fact of sale in gobd
faith, but must be determined from other circumstances. 4
Serg. and Lowb. 275. 7 Ib. 386. 1 Ib. 375. 2 Pick. 261.
5 Esp. 67.
The complaint on the part of the plaintiffs in this case is; that
the court placed the right to sell upon the good faith of the master, and the existence of the necessity, according to his opinion.
And the second instruction on the prayer of the plaintiffs below,
if standing alone, would be open to this interpretation; and if
so, would be erroneous. The professional skill, the due and
proper diligence of the master, his opinion of the necessity,
and the benefit that would result from the sale, to all concerned,
would not justify it; unless the circumstances under which the
vessel was placed rendered the sale necessary in the opinion of
the jury.
But, whatever ambiguity may appear in this 'instruction
standing by itself, it is entirely removed, when taken in connexion with those given upon the defendant's prayers. The
jury were explicitly told, that the plaintiffs were not entitled
to recover for a total loss, tinless the sale was in consequence
of urgent and inevitable necessity, and that the fact of sale was
not conclusive; but that the necessity must be tested bya con-'
sideration of all the facts, as they existed at the time: that if
the damage sustained was of trivial amount, and would have
been repaired at 'Carthagena for a small sum and with little
delay; and that if in their opinion it was not such a case of
urgent necessity as to justify the sale; then the plaintiff was
not entitled to recover for a total loss. This instruction is
according to the defendant's prayer; except that the court was
requested to instruct the jury, that the fact of sale was to have
no influence, but that the necessity was to be tested solely by
the facts, as they existed anterior to the sale. We think the
instruction, although not in the terms of the prayer, yet when
connected with the other instructions, is substantially according to the prayer. For the jury were told in terms, that the
plaintiffs were not entitled to recoyer for - total loss; unless the
sale was the consequence of urgent and inevitable necessity.

SUPREME COURT.
[The Patapsco Insurance Company vs. Southgate et al.]

Whether the evidence was sufficient to warrant the finding
of the jury, is a question that cannot arise here, upon this bill
of exceptions.
The only remaining inquiry is, whether there was a sufficient abandonment proved.
There is some diversity of 6pinion among the elementary
writers, and in the adjudged cases, as to what will constitute
a valid abandonment. It seems, however, agreed, that no partieular form is nec.essary, nor is it indispensable that it should
be in writing. But, in whatever mode or form it is made, it
ought to be explicit, and not left open as matter of inference
from some equivocal acts. The assured must yield up to the
underwriter all hio right, title, and interest in the subject insured For the abandonment, when properly made, operates
as'a transfer of the property to the underwriter, and gives him
a title to it, or what remains of it, as far as it was covered by
thepolicy. 3,Mar. Ins. 599. Phil Ins. 447; and cases there
cited.
"Theevidence in this case to support the abandonment consists of the correspondence between the parties, and the documents accompanying the same.
On thelst of May ,1824,-the plaintiffs wrote to the defendants
as followl: ",We are sorry to have to forward to you protest
and surveys of the schooner Frances, insured with her cargo in
your officb. Captain Seaward arrived yesterday in the schooner
Enterprize. We -had before seen, by an arrival at Charleston
from-Carthagena, that the Frances had been condemned, but
were ignorant, until now, of the cause. By the next steam
boat, we shall forward you a statement of the loss, with the
necessary'vouchers." The protest inclosed to theunderwriters contained the following clause: "I,-the said consul, at
the request of the said master, Joseph Seaward, do hereby
intimate, declare and make known to the underwriters of the
said schooner Frances, and to the underwriters upon her cargo,
that the said master, for himself, and in behalf of the owners of
the said schooner Frances, and her cargo, doth abandon, cede
and leave to them, the said underwriters, and to each and every
of them, all his the said master's, and theirs, the said owners',
rjght, title, interest, profit, propert , claim, demand and produce o and in the said schooner Frances, and her cargo, and
to the tatckle, apparel and furniture of the said schooner; and

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[The Patapsco Insurance Company vs. Southgate et al.]

that the aforesaid master doth claim, on behalf as aforesaid,
reimbursement for the same as a total loss, &c.11 The receipt
of this was acknowledged by letter of the 4th of May; and
saying, that the further proofs of loss on arrival should receive immedigte attention. On the 5th. of May, the further
proofs, and a statement of the loss, were 'forwarded to the underwriters: the receipt of -vhich was acknowledged by lettei
of the 7th of May; in which the underwriters say,.they have
resolved to take time to consider about the adjustment of the
loss.
Thip correspondence, independent of the protest, leaves no
doubt as to the intention and understanding of the parties with
respect to the abandonment. This would however be matter pf
inference only. But the protest is direct and explicit, both in
-form and ,in substance.
It is said, however, that this was an unauthorized act. It
is true no authority is shown from the assured to the -master
!o make the abandonment; and had it been communicated
direct from the master to the underwriters, the objectioni
would apply with full force. But this protest, containing the
abandonment, was communicated to the underwriters by the
plaintiffs. It became thereby their act, adopted and ratified
by them, and must have the same legal effect and operation,
as if it had originated with the assured themselvesa nd constituted a valid abandonment.
This renders it unnecessary for the court to express any
opinion upon the question made at the bar, whether any. abandonment was necessary in this case. It may not however be
amiss to observe, that there is very respectable authority, and
that too founded upon pretty substantial reasons for saying,
that no abandbnment is necessary where the property has been
legally transferred by a necessary and justifiable sale. 2 Pick.
261, 265.
The judgment of the circuit court is alirmed, with six per
cent damages, and costs.

