JANUARY TERM 1831.

TowNsExD D. PEYTON AND OTHERS, APPELLANTS ZYS.JOSEPH STITH, APPELLEE.
Ejectment-Jenkin Phillips, on the 18th May 1780, "enters 1000 acres on the
"south-west side of Licking creek, on a branch called Bucklick creek, on the
"lower side of said creek, beginning at the mouth of the branch, and running
"up the branch for quantity, including three cabins." A survey was made
on this entry the 20th November 1795, taking Bucklick branch, reduced to a
straight line as its base, and laying off the quantity in a rectangle on the northwest of Bucklick. A patent was granted to Phillips on this survey on the 26th
June 1796. This entry is sufficientdy descriptive according to the well established principles of this and the courts of Kentucky; and gave Phillips the prior
equity to the land, which has been duly followed up and consummated by a
grant within the time required by the laws of Virginia and Kentucky, without
any laches which can impair it. The pr9pdr survey under this entry was to
make the line following the general course of Bucklick the centre instead of
the base line of the survey; and to lay off an equal quantity on each side in a
rectangular form, according to the rule established by the court of appeals in
Kentucky, and by this court.
Peyton claimed the land under an entry made by Francis Peyton, and a survey
on the 9th October 1784, and a patent on the 24th December, 1785, so that the
case was that of a claim of the prior equity against the elder grant, which it is
admitted carried the legal title.
Stith took possession as tenant of the heirs of Peyton, under an agreement for one
year, at twenty dollars per year. Possession was afterwards demanded of him
on behalf of the lessors, which he refused to deliver-and a warrant for forcible
entry and detainer was on their complaint issued against him, according to the
law of Kentucky, and on an inquisition he was found guilty; but on a traverse,
of the inquisition he was acquitted, and an ejectment was brought against him
by the lessors. Eight days after the finding of the inquisition, Stith purchased
the land from Phillips. This is the case of an unsuccessful attempt by a landlord to recover possession from an obstinate tenant, whose refusal could not destroy the tenure by which he remained on the prerhises, or impair any of the
relations which the law established between them. The judgment on the acquittal concluded nothing but the facts necessary to sustain the prosecution,
and which could be legally at issue: title could not be set up as a defence :
Stith could not avail himself of the purchase from Phillips. A judgment for
eitherparty left their rights of property wholly unaffected; except as to the mere
possession: the acquittal could only disaffirm the forcible entry, a nothing
else was at issue: the tenancy was not determined : Peyton was not ousted:
and the possession did not become less the possession of the landlord by any
legal consequences as resulting from the acquittal.
In the base of Willison vs. Watkins, 3 Peters, 44, this court considered and declared the law to be settled; that a purchase by a tenant of an adverse title
claiming under or attoming to it or any other disclaimer of tenure, with the
knowledge of the landlord: was forfeiture of his term : that his possession became so far adverse, that the act of limitations would begin to run in his favour
from the time of such forfeiture, and the landlord could sustain an ejectment

SUPREME COURT.
[Peyton et al. vs. Stith.]
against him without notice to quit, at any time before the period prescribed by
the statute had expired, by the mere force of the tenure; without any other evidence than the proof of the tenancy : but that the tenant could in no case
contest the right of his landlord to possession, or.defend himself by any claim
or title adverse to him, during the time which the statute has to run. If the
landlord, under such circumstances, suffers the time prescribed by the statute
of limitations to rup out without making an entry or bringing a suit, each party
may stand upon their right: but, until then, the possession of the tenant is the
possession of the landlord.
From the time of the purchase by Stith from Phillips, although it became adverse
for the specified purposes, it remained fiduciary for all others.
The same principles which would prevent a tenant from contesting his landlord's
title in a court of law, would apply with greater force in a court of equity, to
which he would apply for the quieting of a torfious possession and a conveyance of the legal title. If the relations existing between them could deprive
them of defence at law, a court of chancery could not afford him relief as a
plaintiff durng their continuance. Before he cau be heard in either, in assertion of his title, he must be out of possession, unless it has become legalized by
time: and even then, there may be cases where an equitable title had been
purchased under such circumstances as could justify a court of equity in withholding it, and to a malafide purchaser.
A patent for unimproved lands, no part of which was in the possession of any
one at the time it issued, gives legal seisin and constructive possession of all
the land within the survey.
Courts of equity adopt the same rule as to possession to bar a recovery in ejectment, as courts of law.

APPEAL from the chancery side of the circuit court of
the United States for the district of Kentucky.
In that court, Joseph Stith, the appellee, filed a bill for an
injunction to stay perpetually proccedings by the appellants,
on a judgment obtained by them in an ejectment instituted by
them as the devisee of Francis Peyton, against Joseph Stith
the appellee.
The relief sought by the complainant in the circuit court
was founded on the allegation that one Jenkin Phillips, under
whom the complainant claimed, made the first entry on the
land in controversy; although it was admitted that the plaintiffs in the ejectment held under the eldest patent.
The circuit court decreed a perpetual injunction, as to so
much of the land as fell within a certain location mAde under
a survey ordered by that court, within the bounds of Jenkin
From the decree
Phillips's conveyed to the complainant.
the respondents appealed to this court.
The facts are fully stated in the opinion of the court.

JANUARY TERM 1831.
tPeyton et al. vs. Stitb.]

The case was argued by Mr Taylor and Mr Jones for the
appellants; and by Mr Bibb and Mr Daniels for the appellees.
Mr Justice BALDWIN delivered the opinion of the Court.
The subject of this controversy is a tract of land situated on
Kingston fork of Licking creek, and Buck Lick creek a
branch thereof. Stith, the complainant below, claims title
under an entry made by Jenkins Phillips on the 1sth of May
1780, in the following words. "Jenkins Phillips enters one
thousand acres on the south-west side of Licking creek, on a
branch called Back Lick creek on the lower side of said creek;
beginning at the mouth of the branch, and running up the
branch for quantity, including three cabins.
A survey was made on this entry on the 20th November
1795, taking Buck Lick branch, reduced to a straight line as
its base, and laying off the quantity in a rectangle on the north
west side of Buck Lick. A patent was granted to Phillips on
this survey on the 26th of June 1796, who, on the 8th of February 1814, conveyed to Stith 666 acres thereof, including
the land in controversy. Stith was then in possession of the
land under the circtfmstances which will be hereafter referred
to.
The appellant claimed, under an entry mad6 by Francis
Peyton for 1000 acres, a survey on the 9th of October 1784,
and a patent on the 24th of December 1785: so that the case
presented was of Stith claiming the prior equity against the
elder grant, which, it is admitted, carried the legal title. No
question arose on the validity of Peyton's entry, as his elder
grant was conclusive, unless an equity arose -in Phillips, by
his prior entry; but the validity of this entry was questioned
by the appellant on several grounds, involving I'o general
principles which are necessary tc be settled by the court, bu
only those arising on matters of fact and detail, which have no
bearing on the merits of the case.
We entertain no doubt of the validity of the entry; its ctlls
are sufficiently descriptive, according to the well established
principles of this, and the courts of Kentucky, and give Phillips
the prior equity to the land, which has been duly followed up
and consummated by a grant within the time required by the

SUPREME COURT.
[Peyton et al. vs. Stith.]

laws of Virginia and Kentucky, without any laches which can
impair it.
This entry was much contested, both parties objecting to
the survey as executed in November 1795. The circuit court
were of opinion that the entry ought to be so surveyed, as to
make the line following the general course of Buck Lick, the
centre instead of the base line of the survey, and to lay off an
equal quantity on each side in a rectangular form, according to
the rule established by the court of appeals in Kentucky, in
Harding's Rep. 59, 367. 1 Bibb. 79, 107. 2 Bibb. 122.
4 Bibb. 153, 383; 'and in this court in 2 Wheat. 323, with
which we fully concur.
IAs the survey of 1795, and the one directed by the circuit
court, both embrace all the land in dispute about which any
contest arises, it is unnecessary to notice them minutely, as in
our opinion the entry and survey of Phillips gave him an
equitable title which attached to the land, elder than Peyton's,
and would entitle the complainant to a decree; unless the case
discloses such facts as, independent of the original titles, present a bar to the relief he asks.
It is alleged by the appellant, that one Jeremiah Wilson,
in the year 1792 or 1793, came to the land in question within
the lines of Peyton's patent, and resided there until the month
of March 1795, when he took a lease for five years from the
agent of Peyton, and continued to reside there for some years:
that from Wilson's first settlement there was a continued uninterrupted possession of the land by tenants and persons holding under Peyton and his heirs, till Stith the complainant took
possession as tenant of Peyton's heirs, under an agreement
with one Mitchell, who acted as their agent under a verbal
authority from some of them; and that he remained there until
December 1813, when possession was demanded of him on
behalf of the appellants, which he refused to deliver up.
Whereupon a warrantof forcible entry ana detainer was on their
complaint issued by a justice of the peace on the 27th of January 1814, and an inquisition taken on the 1st of February,
finding Stith guilty; but that on a traverse of the inquisition in
April following, he was acquitted. An ejeetment was then
brought agqinst him by the appellants, and judgment rendered
for the plaintiffs, at the November term of the circuit court,

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[Peyton et al. vs. Stith.'

1816, when the present bill was filed, praying for an injunction against further proceedings on the ejectment, and a conveyance of the legal title to the land recovered: An injunction was ordered. The respondents, in their answer, allege
that the complainant was put into possession, as the tenant of
their ancestor, 'by his agent; but afterwards took protection
under Jenkins Phillips, with the fraudulent purpose of cheating
and defrauding him.
To this answer a special replication was put in by the complainant, averring that he did not enter as tenant aforesaid;
and sets up the proceedings of forcible entry and detaihe'r, and'
his acquittal; and relies on them for farther replication in
bar of the allegation. An amended answer was by leave of
the court and on terms afterward filed, averring that the complainant rented the land and entered thereon as the tenant of
Peyton, and continued to reside as such tenant, until he purchased from I hillips; and that he ought not to be permitted
to set up any adverse title, ultil he would surrender possession to the respondents. They rely on their uninterrupted
possession, plead the act of limitations of 1809, as a bar to the
relief sought by the bill, and aver that the bill ought not to b'e
sustained, as the complainant is colluding with another, contrary to every principle of morality.
To this amended answer the complainant demurred. 1.
Because the act of 1809 was a violation of the compact between the states of Virginia and Kentucky. 2. If the law is
not void, the respondents cannot avail themselves of it, as
they were not, and the complainant was, settled on and actually in possession of the premises in question, when the bill
was filed; holding and claiming under the title set forth in
his bill. 3. That the respondents had not the actual and
continued possession for the number.of years required by the
law, next preceding the filing of the bill, but were ousted and
possession held by complainant. 4. That the complainant
and respondent were in actual litigation, in the action of ejectment of their relative rights under their titles, on the 1st January 1816, and long before, and until the filing of this bill.
On these pleadings, and a g'eat mass of depositions taken in
the cause, the circuit court rendered a decree for the complainant. On a careful examination of the whole record, we are
VOL. V.-S M

SUPREME COURT.
[Peyton et al. vs. Stith.]

abundantly satisfied that the appellants have fully established
the fact of the tenancy of Stith, at the time he entered on the
land. It is positively sworn to by three witnesses, and contradieted bynone. His demurrer to the amended answer admits
it most distinctly; as well as the continuance of the tenancy
down to his .purchase from Phillips. If this part of the case
rested only on the eviaenee in the cause, unsupported by the
demurrer, we should require nothing more to satisfy our
minds; tut connected with the solemn admission on record,
it presents a case cleared of all possible doubt.
The agreement by which he rented the land, was for one
year, at a rent of twenty dollars, payable in November 1811.
By continuing in possession, he rerained a tenant from year
to year, his possession being in law the possession of Peyton
or his heirs, with all the relations of landlord and tenant subsisting between them in full force.
It appears that Stith refused to surrender up the premises,
on a demand made by the agent of Peyton, in December 1813;
in consequence of which he instituted a proceeding before a
justice of the peace, in pursuance to the law of "Kentucky relating to forcible entry and retainer. 4 Littell's Laws 182.
This law contains provisions similar to the statutes of Richard
III, adopted or substantially re-enacted in all the states; and authorizes the. same proceedings against tenants, who, after the
expiration of their term, refuse to restore the possession to the
landlord.
On this'proceeding an inquisitiot was found against Stith,
on the, 1st of February 1814; but he was acquitted op a tra,verse tried in April following, The record does not state explicitly the object of this process, whether it was to proceed
-for the forcible entry or only for the detainer: the warrant is
in the form directed by the second section of the law, embracing both; which are charged as having been committed on
the 22d of December 1813. This, connected with the proof in
the cause, and the admission of the tenancy of Stith In his demurrer to the amended answer to the bill, leaves no doubt that
the proceeding was against him as a tenant holding over, and
pming within the provisions of the 16th section of the law.
'his'is the more apparent when there appears no evidence,
that prior to the purchasefrom Phillips, eight days after the

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[Peyton et al. vs. Sti(h.]

finding of the inquisition, Stith had done any act disavowing
his tenancy, except the refusal to surrender possession. Thus,
considered, the case is an unsuccessful attempt by a landlord
to recover possession from an obstinate tenant; whose refusal
could not destroy the tenure by which he remained on the
premises, or impair any of the relations which the law established between them. The effect of the acquittal extended no
farther than to deprive the landlord of the benefits expected
from this process, and turn him round to the ejectment which
he afterwards brought. The judgment on the acquittal, coneluded nothing but the facts necessary to sustain thp prosecution, and which could be legally in issue. If. a case is made
out within the 16th section of the law, it declares "4the tenant shall be adjudged guilty of a forcible detainer;" and this
was the matter to be inquired into.. Title could not be set up as
a defence; Stith could not avail himself of the purchase fbm
Phillips; ajudgment for either party left their rights of property
wholly unaffected, ex et as to the mere possession; and the acquittal could only disafn the forcible detainer, as nothing
else was in issue. It was conclusive on the landlord as to that;
but in all other respects the rights and relations of the parties
remained as before the institution of the process. The tenancy was not determined; Peyton was not ousted, and the
possession did not become less the possession of the landlord
by any legal consequfences resulting from the acquittal; unless
the relative situation of the parties as landlord and tenant became changed by the purchase from Phillips, after the inquisition and.before the traverse.
In the case of Willison vs. Watkins, 3 Peters, 44, decided at
the last term, thi's court considered and declared the law to be
settled, that a purchase by a tenant of an adverse title, claiming under or'attorning to it, or any otlier disclaimer of tenure
with the knowledge of the landlord, was a forfeiture of his
term: that-his possession became so far adverse,- that the act of
limitations could begin to run in his favour, from the time of
such forfeiture; and the landlord could sustain ejectment
against him without notice to quift at any time before the pefiod prescribed by the statute had expired, by the mere force
of tle tenure, without any other evidence thah the proof of
thetenancy: but that the tenant could in no ca,!e contest the

SUPREME COURT.
[Peytmi et al. vs. Stith.]

right of his landlord to possession, or defend himself by any
claim or title adverse to him, during the,time which the statute
has to run.
If the landlord suffers it to run out without making an entry, or bringing a suit; each p4rty may stand upon their right;
but until then the possession of .the tenant is the possession of
the landlord.
Tested by these principles, the purchase from Phillips in
1814 can have no- effect on the merits of this case. Though
the possession of Stith became from that time adverse for
these specified purposes, it remained fiduciary for all others.
He could not assert an adversary title without surrendering
possession. The law recognizes him as having no rights of
property in the. lands, unless such as grow out of his tenure;
his title must remain dormant, while he retains possession for
a less term than prescribed by law: it may become active
whenever Jie abandons the possession, or it ip protected by the
limitation. The same principles, which would prevent a tenant from contesting his landlord's title in a court of law would
apply with greater force in a court of equity, to *hich he
would apply, for the quieting of a tortious possession, and a
cofiveyance of the legal title. If the relations subsiSting between them could deprive him of defence at law, a'court of
chancery could not afford him relief as a plaintiff during their
continuance. Before he can be heard .in either, in asserition
of his title, he must be out of possession, unless it has become
legalized by' time; and even then there may be cases where an
equitable title had been purchased under such circumstances
as would justify a court of equity in withholding their aid to
a malafide purchaser.
It is not necessary to decide whether this is such an one,
since we are very clear, that the present complainant can on
no principle of law or equity, have any claims on the interference of this court to prevent 'the respondents from obtaining, by their judgment in ejectment, a restoration of thQ devised premises. This is his right by the terms and effect of
the tenure; on the faith of which the one party gave, and the
other received possession. As the possession. of the plaIntiff
has been continuous, from the first entry, as a tenant, his remaining after the purchase from Phillips is neither an ouster

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[Peyton et al. vs. Stih.]

nor disseisin of Peyton, so as to put him to the assertion of
his right under his patent. The possession of Stith must
be interrupted, and its continuity broken, before he can be
permitted to sustain any proceeding, founded on.the equitable
title thus acquired. For admitting his possession to be so far
adverse that the limitation began to run from February 1814,
the right of the plaintiffs in the ejectment to possession on the
termination of the tenancy, remains unimpaired, and is as
much to be respected in a court of equity as bf law: it being
an attribute and incident of the tenancy which attaches to it,
notwithstanding any act of the tenant short of a voluntary restoration of the premises, or undisturbed occupation for seven
years by the law of 1809This view of the case is fatal to the proceeding in equity,
commenced while the complainant is residing on the land demised, and before the expiration of three years from the commencement of .his disclaimer, or adversary holding with the
knowledge of Peyton.
There is another objection to the relief sought for by, the
complainant, which seems to the court to be conclusive. On
an attentive examination of the evidence returned with the
record, we are of opinion that a continuea and uninterrupted
possession for twenty years in Peyton and his heirs, prior to
the filing of the bill, has been fully, proved. There appears
to have been no point of time since the first entry of Wilson
in 1799 or 1793. within which the premises have been unoccupied by him: as Peyton held the legal title, the po.-ession
under him extends to the bounas of his survey; and is as complete to the whole as if the actual occupation was qo-extensive
with his grant.
It is proved, without contradiction, that the lan& was in the
woods, wholly unimproved, when Wilson first entered; and
there is no evidence to show that when he leased rrom Peyton,
in March 1795, any other person was upon the ground. His
patent gave him legal seisin, and constructive possession, ofall
the land within his survey. Barr vs. Gratz, 4 Wheat. 222.
Green vs. Liter, 8 Cranch, 250.
Though Wilson's first entry was without claim of title in
himself or any other, his attornment to the title 'f Peyton in
1795, will make his possession relaLe back to his first entry;

SUPREME COURT.
'[Peyton et al. vs. Stith.]

and connected with the legal possession, give to Peyton all
the benefits of actual occupation from that time. But even
confining him'to the period of actual occupation under his
title; it appears that twenty-one years and eight months had
elapsed before the filing of the complainant!s bill. This would
afford at law a complete bar to an ejectment under the title of
Phillips: and courts of equity adopt the same rule by.analogy.
Hughes vs. Edwards, 9 Wheat. 489. Elmendorf vs. Taylor, 10 Wheat. 152.
. The continuity of tho possession does not appear to have
been broken; there is evidence of an attempt made by Phillips
and Riley, his son-in-law, to tamper and collude with the
tenants to attorn him: and some of the wifnesses speak of declarations of some of the tenants of their having some sort of
connexion with his titie;-but in what way does not satisfactorily appear. There is no evidence of any agreement between him and any of them; on the contrary, there is clear
evidence ofthe "tenancy, Qf all the occupants under Peyton,
from the entry of Wilson, down to the lease to Stith; and no
fact is disclosed in any of the depositions, which would in law
amount to a disclaimer of the tenute by any of the tenants, an
I.
attornment to Phillips, or possession averse to the landlord.
There seems nothing which would make out such an adverse
possession in Phillips, as would interrupt that of Peyton; and
though there are some circumstances in ,evidence of an equivocal character; they cannot -amount to a disseisin or ouster,
or dissolve the relations i-esulting from the original acknowledged relations between him and his tenants, which continued
until the filing of the bill. Such continued possession for
twenty years, under the legal title of Peyton, constitutes a complete bar to all the relief prayed for in the bill. It is therefore the opinion of the court; that the decree of the circuit
"court be reversed, and that the cause be remanded, with instructions to dismiss the bill of the complainants, with costs,
but without prejudice to the right of the complainant, accruing
or vested in him by any deed or contract with Luckett, or
any other person, in relation to any part of the land contained
in either of the surveys of Peyton.

