XANUARY TERM, 1831.

THE UNIot

]BANK ov GEORGETOwN, APPELLANT Vs. ANNA
GEARY, APPELLEE.

It is a well settled rule, that in a bill praying relief, when the facts charged in the
bill as the ground for the decree are clearly and positively denied by the answer,
and proved only by a single witness, the Court wilt not decree against the defendant. And it is equally well settled, that when the witness on the part of the
complainant is supported and corroborated by circumstances sufficient to outweigh the denial in the answer, the rule does not apply.
An injunction bill was filed upon the oath of the complainant against a corporation, and the answer was put in under their common seal unaccompanied by
an oath. The weight of such an answer is very much lessened, if not entirely
destroyed, as it is not sworn to.
The court is inclined to adopt it as a general, rule, that an answer, not under
oath, is to be considered merely as a denial of the allegation in the bill; analogous
to the general issue at law: so as to put the complainant to the proof of such
allegation.
The attorney of the plaintiffl; in an action on a promissory note agreed with the
defendant, whose intestate was indorser of the note, that if he would confess
judgment, and not dispute her liability upon the note, he, the attacney, would
immediately proceed by execution to make the amount from the drawer of the
note, the principal debtor; who he assured her had sufficient property to satisfy
the same. .Uponthe faith of this promise she did confcss thejudgment. Held,
that this agreement fell within the scope of the general authority ofthe attorney,
and was binding on the plaintiffs in the suit. The plaintiffis in the suit having
failed to proceed by execution against the drawer of the note, and having suffered him to remove with hi, property out of the reach of process of execu.
tion, the circuit court, on a bill filed, perpetually enjoined proceedings, on the
judgment confessed by the administratrix of the indorser; and the decree of the
eimeuit court was, on appeal, affirmed by the supreme court.
The consideration alleged in the bill for the promise of the attorney to .proceed
by execution against the drawer ofthe note, and make the amount of the same,
was the relinquishment of a defence which thb defendant at the time considered
legal and valid. By a subsequent judicial decision it was determined that
the defence would not have been sustained. To permit this decision to have
a retrospective effect so as to annul a settlement or agreement made under a
different state of things, would be sanctioning a most mischievous principle.
The general authority of an attorney does not cease with the entry of a judgment. He has, at least, a right to issue an execution; although he may not
have the right to discharge such executioh, without receiving satisfaction.
The suit does not terminate with the judgment; proceedings in the execution
are proceedings in the suit.

Appeal from the circuit court of the district of Columbia
for the county of Washington.

SUPREME COURT.
[Union Bank of Georgetown vs. Geary.]

Anna Geary, as administratrix of her husband Everard
Geary, filed her bill in the circuit court, in which she sets
forth, that hei intestate some time before his 'death became se.curity on anote which was discounted for the accommodation of
J. Merrill, at the Union Bank of Georgetown, for a-large sum of
money, which was continued from time to time, by a renewal
in the usual way, for the accommodation of Merrill, until the
death of her intestate. Subsequent to his.' death, suits were
instituted in the circuit, court upon the note, against the
drawer and indorser ; and she was called on by the counsel
and attorney of the bank, and requested to confess a judgment *on the note, and was at the time assured, by the.
attorney, that if she did so, and did not dispute her liability
upon the note, the bank would immediately proceed by execution to make the amount thereof from the principal debtor,
Merrill; who, heassured her, had sufficient property in the
country to satisfy the same : and he, advising her that she
would be thus saved-from liability for the debt, prevailed on
her to make no defence against the suit at law, but voluntarily
to confesi a judgment thereon, for the amount of the debt,
principal, interest, and costs.
The judgment was confessed for four. thousand dollars
damages afid costs, to be released on payment of.two thousand
dollars with interest from 24 January 1815 until paid. Variouspayments fromMay 30,1815 untilAugust 6,1816were made
by Merrill, amounting to seven hundred and fifty-three dollars
and thirty nine cents.
The complainant charges, that at the time of confessing the
judgment, a valid legal defence existed against the suit, which
would have defeated the plaintiff's right to recover on the indorsement; the plaintiffs not having made the due and legal
demand, and given due and legal notice, so as to bind the indorser : that the attorney of the bank well knert the same,
and therefore, and to prevent complainant from contesting
the suit, made the proposition before stated.
The bill further charges, that when the judgments were
obtained against Merrill and the complainant, on the note,
Merrill resided in Georgetown: and had then and .there sufficient property to satisfy and pay the judgments, and the same

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[Union Bank of Georgetown vs. Geary.]

might then and for some tinie afterwards, have been recovered by process of execution, issued either against the body or
the goods of Merrill. Complainant repeatedly and earnestly
called upon the plaintiffs, anq urged them to issue execution,
against Merrill, and recover their debt, according to the agreement and understailding upon wl~ich she had confessed judgment. The plaintiffs; however, continued to indulge Merrill
for a long space of time, and, notwithstanding all the remonstrances of the complainant, permitted him to leave the district, and take with him all his property beyond the process
of the court; nor have they taken any effectual and proper
means to recover the debt from said Merrill, as bound by their
agreement to do. Merrill is now, as the complainant is informed and believes, in insolvent circumstances. ' And now,
that by their misconduct and .breach of faith, they have lost
the means of recovering the judgment from Meriill; the plaintiffs, most unjustly and unreasonably, demand payment of the
same from the complainant, and threaten to proceed against
her on said judgment, which she believes they mean to do. •
The answer of the defendants below, Which was filed under
their corporate seal and was not sworn to, admits that Merrill
did borrow the sum of two thousand two hundred dollars, upon
his promissory note indorsed by Everard Geary, and avers that
the loan was made exclusively on the credit of the indorser;
Geary having proposed himself as security of Merrill,, whom
he was anxious to assist and benefit by indorsing his note.
The answer alleges that theneedy circumstances of Merrill were
well known to the defendants and to the indorser; he never
had sufficient property to pay his debts, add that the indorser
was known to be in good circumstances, and of ability and willingness to discharge his debts and responsibilities. During
his life time the indorser frequently promised to save and pro
tect the bank from any loss on account of Merrill's inability to
meet the note; and had he lived) he would punctually have
complied with such promises.
Upon the death of E. Geary, his administratrix, the complainant, refused to pay the note when it-became due, and suffered the same to be protested; and it became necessary for
defendants to institute suits against the drawer and. indorser;

SUPREME COURT.
[Union Bank of Georgetown vs. Geary.]

upon which suits judgments -were obtained in December
1817.
As to so much of the bill as charges any persuasion or
agreement by the attorney of the bank, the defendants deny
the same; and aver that the judgment was not obtained voluntarily, the complainant having appeared to the sqit, and contested the same in every stage until the trial term; and when
defefrdants'were prepared with all necessary proof, and the
case actually called for trial, the attorney of complainant,
knowing that he had no good and valid defence, confessed the
judgment.
'he defendants deny t1 'at they ever authorised or directed
their attorneyto hold out anyinducementsto the complainant to
confess the judgment, or to make any such persuasions and
promises as are set forth in the bill;, and they aver'that such
persuasions and promises would have been wholly superfluous
and unnecessary; as the complainant was legally and justly
liable and bound to tI e defendants for the payment of the
debt, and was then better acquainted with the situation of Merrill than the defendants or their attorney.
They deny that the complainant had anyvalid legal defence
to the action; but aver that payment of the note was legally
demanded, and that due notice of non-payment was given.
But whatever defence the complainant might have had, which
is denied, the defendants insist that she has waved any such
legal or technical defence, and omitted to protectherself thereby
at law, and cannot now avail herself of the same in equity.
They deny that when the judgment was obtained, or at a1iy
time afterwards, Merrill had sufficient property unincumbered
whereon execution could have been leviect and the money
made; ind they believe that- had they issued an execution
against his bqdy, it would have involved a useless increase of
costs, as they believe he would have taken the benefit of the insolvent law; they deny that they have been remiss and inattentive in obtaining payment from Merrill; on the contrary
they aver that by their active axertions they did obtain payment from Merrill eight hundred and fifty-three dollars which
otherwise never would have been paid. They deny ever having granted indbljences to Merrill without the knowledge,
consent and c6ncurrnce of the complainant; or that they

JANUARY TERM 1831.
(Union Bank of Georgetown vs. Geary.]

permitted him to leave the district and take his property
with him, or refused to take proper and efficient measures to
recover their judgment from him.
The answer also states, that whenever they called upoa the
complainant tQ pay the debt, they were ready and willing to
make an assignment of the judgment against Merrill, and repeatedly offered to do so before he left the district; which was
refused.
On the answer being filed, the circuit court, on motion, dissolved the injunction; and the complainant having filed a general replication, the testimony of various witnesses was taken;and upon a final hcaring, the court revived and perpetuated'
the injunction. From this'decree an appeal was entered.
The substance of the depositions is as follows: DIaniel Renner, a director of the bank, says, that he was called on by Mrs
Geary to get the Union Bank to have an execution issued
against Merrill, before Merrill left the district. He made the
application to the board. No answer was made, or, if any, to
this effect: that they were not bound to press Merrill; that
Mrs Geary, if she pleased, could pay the judgment, and then
adopt such course as she pleased. He is not certain whether
this suggestion came from the board or from some of them
otit of the bank. Mrs Geary made frequent applications to
him to get execution issued against Merrill before he left
town; and he several times spoke of it to the board.
G. Cloud stated that all the knowledge he had of the judgment, was from the con-ersations between the cashier of the
bank, Renner, Merrill, and Wiley, the attorney of the bank,
:and Mrs Geary. He well recollects the conversatiorn between
Mrs Geary and Mr Wiley on the subject of her confessing
judgment; and understood from the conversation of both of
them, that if she would agree and confess judgment, she was
to be cleared, and the money to be made out of Merrill's property, as he (Wiley) said he had ascertained that Merrill had
property sufficient to satisfy the debt, which was clear of incumbrances; and that it was expressly on these conditions that
she confessed judgment,
He heard Mrs Geary.tell Mr Wiley, that he had promised
that if sle would confess judgment, it would be better for
her, as he would have the execution levied on Merrill's pro-

104,

SUPREME "COWRT.
[Union Bank of Georgefown

s. Geary.]

perty; and it would clear her from paying the debt, as Merrill had a sufficient property clear of incumbrance: which he
admitted he had told her, but that the fault was not in him,
but in the directors of the bank. He did not think that she
was in danger of paying the debt; for he thought they would
still get it out of.Merrill. Merrill had considerable property
in his posession when he left the district; but the witness
did not know his title to it. He heard Mr Wiley say he had
ascertained that it was eldar of incumbrances; and that he had
,sufficient to satisfy the judgment. He heard Mrs Geary tell
Mr Wiley she never would have confessed judgment if he had
not told her that hIe would clear her by instantly levying on
MerrilPs property; and that she verily believed it was in his
power to have the execution levied at his will-which he admitted.
The reason assigned by Mr Wiley was, that the directors of
the bank would not suffer the execution to issue, as they
knew their debt was safe, and did not wish to breakup MerSrill. The witness also stated that he knew of frequent.applications by Mrs Geary to Wiley to have execution issued,
and went frequently himself on that business; but they
would not suffer the execution to issue. One of the directors
advised Mrs Geary to pay off the judgment, and then the
bank could not prevent her frbm having the execution issued;
but she could not procure the money to do so. He"has heard
Mr Renner say that the directors did not use Mrs Geary well
by withholding the execution, and suffering Merrill to leave
the district; and that he had done what he could to have the
execution issued, but to no effect.
E. Riggs, a director of the bank, stated that he does not
remember any agreement between the bank or its offi6rs,
and Mrs Geary. He remembers a decision of the circuit court
exonerating indorsers uponk a fourth day protest. He remembers that complainant, or some person for her, made application to the board to call on Merrill for the debt, and press
him for payment. The reply of the board (made by Dr Magruder, as well as deponent recollects,) Was, that Merrill was
not then able to pay, but was about to remove where he
would probably be more able to pay; but that complainant, if
..she chose, might pay the money, and have th5judgment as':-igned to her; but the majority of the board did not feel them-

JANUARY TERM, 1831.

105

[Union Bank of Georgetown vs. Geary.]

selves called upon to distress Merrill, by complying with her
request. Some of,the board thought differently; and th6ught
that if she could make any thing out of Merrill's property,
she should be allowed to do so. These were casual remarks, but no decision made. He thinks the application was
made by Mr Renner, or by Mr, English, the cashier. He
was always opposed to the loan to Merrill; but was always
answered that the indorser was sufficient.
David English, the cashier, states that he never knew of the
agreement until the bill was filed, nor did he know, when the
judgment was confessed, that the circuit court had deliveredtheir opinion upon the insufficiency of a four days protest. It
was determined not to issue execution against Merrill, but
upon what grounds he did not recollect. It wag said the
board were willing to assign the judgment. The note fell due
before the decision of thecourt relative to a four days protest.
The practice of protesting on the fourth day was general with
all the banks; and the indorser being a considerable dealer in
the banks, was probably acquainted with it. The suit was in
the hands of Mr Wiley.
James A. Magruder deposed that Mr Wiley was the attorney, or'counsel, for the Union Bank, at the time the judgment was confessed by the complainant..
It was known to the bank, before the judgment was confessed, that many of their suits against indorsers for tria at
that term, were in jeopardy, in. consequence of the late de-.
cision of the court, as to the insufficiency of the demand and
notice on the fourth instead of the third day of grace.
He understood from Wiley that he was authorized and re'
quested by the bank, or some of its officers, to adjust all such
cases, and get judgments confessed by the parties, so as to.
avoid such defences being made by the indorsers.
He was requested by said Wiley to call on several of the
irtdorsers- and among others, the complainant, with a view to
make such adjustment; and did advise her to see Mr Wiley,.
who was friendly to her, and would not advise her to do any
thing against her interest.
The case was argued by Mr Swann for the'appellants, and
by Mr Coxe and U'r Jones for the appellee.;
VOL.
V

V.-O

SUPREME COURT.
[Union Bank of IOeorgetown vs. Gdary.J

Mr Swann contended .that the complainant had not made
out a case for the action of a court of chancery. The allegations of the bill were denied in the answer; and these allegations did not exhibit faits which entitled the complainant
to relief, nor were they supported by the testimony of witnesses.
The bank gave no authority to their attorney to accept a
judgment on the terms stated; and the judgment was entered
at the trial term, when thp plaintiffs in the suit were prepared
with witnesses to prove the liability of the administratrix in
fact and at law; nor had the drawer of the note property to
pay the judgment. His inability to pay the note was known
when the loan was made; and it was made on the credit and
sufficiency of the indorser.
The evidence by no means sustains the allegations of the
bill. No two witnesses support the facts it asserts: and asthe answer denies the bill, two witnesses are required to give
the complainant a right to the injunction.
But if the attorney bad maade the .promise which is averred
by the complainaoat, sudh a promise would not bind the bank.
As an attorney he had no such right; and no evidence is
given that the bank gave the authority. Beecher's case; 8
Coke. 116. If the bank had made a promise .which at the
moment the judgment was entered avoided it, such promise
would be nugatory, as being without consideration. A judgment imports an absolute and unconditional obligation to -pay;
and the evidence of this obligation is of the highest character,
that of a ree6rd; but in this case it is to be invalidated by a
parol agreement. A condition at war with a grant is void.
So a condition at war with a judgment of record would be void.
The judgment was obtained in 1817; long beforeany,decision relative, to protests on the fourth day. The bill was.
filed in 1819, two -years-,after the question was made. The
complaint then was, that the judgment was -not confessed on
the ground that there was no defence; and the bill asks tht
the defence of want of legal notice may be @lowed. But
since that time it has been decided by this court, that the
notiep was legal; and now the complainant asks to be -elieved frdm the debt altogether, by having the injunction perpetloated. Neither the !aw nor the evidence supports the claim.

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[Union Bank of Georgetown vs. Geary.]

Mr Coxe and Mr Jones for ,the appellee contended, that
it was necessary to look at the time when the judgment was
obtained. At that time great doubts wer6 entertained about
the regularity of a four days protest ; and thus the arrangement
made by the bank was one by which a benefit was supposed
to be secured to the plaintiffs. The consideration for that
judgment was the promise to proceed against Merrill; whose
ability to pay the debt was declared by the attorney of the
bank to have been satisfactorily ascertained. Thus it was
not material whether the question of the legality of- the pro-.
test had been decided.
Two witnesses are not required to sustain the allegation of
a bill, when one witness and circumstances confirm them. In
this case the statements of the bill ate not denied on oath, the
corporation having answered under its seal; and thus even
the general rule cannot be applied to the case. 1 Cowen's Rep.
110.
Nor is the denial of the bank a denial of facts which they
could have known. The bill charges the acts to have been
done by the attorney. "Maryland Rep. 283. 9 Cranch 153.
The facts of the case present merits which fully entitle it
to the relief, of a court of equity. The agent of the bank
agreed to take the judgment on the condition that the debt
should be collected from Merrill, who had property. It
was positively stipulated that execution should issue immediately
against that property.; and the question is presented, whether
the attorney could make such an agreement.
The bank acts only by its attorney. Wiley was the regular attorney of the bank, and is proved to have acted for them.
The act done by him was within his powers in this relation to
the bank. Cited, 3 Taunt. 486. 1 Esp. Cases, 178. Sayer,
259. iDall. 164. ILordRaym. 241. 13 Johns. 174. 17Johns.
324. But if there had been no ground of defence to the suit,
the case is not varied. There was a meritorious consideration
for the agreement, and it was binding on the bank.. Cited,
I Ves. 408.. 4 Ves.848. 2 Johns. Ch. Cases, 51, 60. " 2 Vern.
423.

Mr Justice THOMPsON delivered the opinion of the Court.
The appellee, who was the complainant in the court below, and administratrix of-her late husband, filed her bill in
the circuit court for the- district of Columbia, and for the

SUPREME COURT.
[Union Bank of Georgetown vs. Geary.]

county of Washington, for the purpose of obtaining an injunction. to restrain the Union Bank of Georgetown from all
further proceedings on a judgment recovered against her as
administratrix, upon a,.prom issory note for two thousand two
hundred dollars, bearing date the 271st of November 1814,
which had been indorsed by her late husband, and discounted
by the Union Bank for the accommodation of Jeremiah Merrill, the maker. Thejudgment was entered in December 1817.
The bill states that suits were instituted in the circuit court
upon the note, against the drawer and indorser; and that the
complainant was called upon by the attorney of the bank,
and requested to confess a judgment on the note, and was at
the time assured by the attorney, if she did so, and did not
dispute her liability upon the nQte, the bank would immediately proceed by execution, to make the amount thereof from
Merrill, the principal debtor, who, he assured her, had sdfficient property to satisfy the same; and advising her that
she would be thus saved from liability for the debt, prevailed
on her to make no deferice against the suit at law, but woluntarily to confess a judgment thereon.
The bill charges that at the time of confessing the judgment, a valid legal defence existed against, said suit, whici
would have defeated the plaintiff's right to recover on the
indorsement; the plaintiff not having made the due and legal demand, and give due and legal notice, -o as to bind tha
indorser. That the attorney of the bank well knew the
same, and to prevent the complainant from contesting the
same, made the proposition above stated. The bill futrther
charges, that when the' judgments were obtained upon the
note, Merrill resided in Georgetown, and had sufficient property to satisfy and pay the judgments; and that the same might
then, and for some time afterwards, have been recovered by
process of execution, issued either' against the body or the
goods of Merrill. And that the complainant repeatedly and
earnestly called upon and urged the plaintiffs to issue execution against Merrill according to the agreement and understanding. upon which she had confessed judgment: but that
the plaintiffs continued to indulge Merrill, and permitted him
to leave the 'district, and take with him all his property, beyond the process of the court; nor have they taken aby ef-

JANYUARY TERM 1831.
[Union Bank of Georgetown vs. Geary.]

feetual and proper means to recover the. debt from Merrill, as
bound by their agreement to do. The complainant further
states, that she is informed and believes, that Merrill is in insolvent circumstances; and that now the Bank, having by their
misconduct and breach of faith, lost the means of recovering
the judgment from Merrill, unjustly and unreasonably demand payment of the complainant, and threaten to proceed
against her on the judgment, which she believes they mean
to do.
TIhe defendants, in the court below, in their answer, deny
the agreement alleged to have been made by their attorney;
and aver that the judgment was not. confessed'voluntarily,-but
contested in every stage, until the trial term., and when the
cause was actually. called for trial, the complainant's attorney
knowing he had no good defence, confessed the judgment.
They deny that they ever authorised or directed their attorney to hold out any inducements to complainant to confess
the judgment, or to make any such persuasions and promises
as are set forth in the bill; that they would liave been.wholly
superfluous and unnecessary, as the complainant was legally
and justly liable and bound for the payment of the note.
They deny, that the complainant had any valid legal defence to the, action, but. aver that payment of the -note was
legally demanded, and that due notice of non-payment was
given.
They deny that when the judgment was obtained, or atany
time afterwards, Merrill had sufficientproperty unincumbered.
whereon any execution could have been levied, and the money made. They deny that they have been, remiss and inat- tentive in obtaining payment from Mv[errill.
These are the only parts of the bill and answei which it is
deemed material -to notice. Depositions having been taken,
the cause was set down for a final hearing, upon the pleadings, exhibits and depositions, and the court decreed a perpetual injunction. From which decree an appeal was taken
to this court.
The first inquiry that'seems naturally to arise in this case
is, whether the agreement or contract set up in the bill, to
have been made between Wiley the attorney of the bank,
and the complainant in the court below, has been established

SUPREME COURT.
[Union Bank o' Georgetown vs. Geary.]

by sufficient evidence, according to the rules and principles
which prevail in courts of equity. It is denied by the answer
that such" agreement was made. The agreement is certainly
very fully proved by one witness.
G. Cloud states in his deposition, that he well recollects
the conversation between Mrs Geary and Mr Wiley, the
attorney of the bank: on the subject of her confessing the
judgment, and understood, from the conversation of both of
them, that if she would agree and confess judgment, she was
to be cleared, and the money to be made out of Merrill's property, as Wiley said he had ascertained that Merrill had property sufficient to satisfy the debt, that was clear of incumbrance; and that it was expressly on these conditions that she
confessed judgment. This witness, in his answer to another
interrogatory, states that Mrs Geary was to be cleared (as he
expresses it) by instantly levying, on Merrill's property.
From which it is clearly to be inferred, that it was not intended that she should be absolutely released from the judgment, but'that her discharge would result from the satisfaction
to be obtained from Merrill, of which, from the assurances of
Wiley, little or no doubt could be entertained. Some criticisms have been made at the bar upon the deposition of thzs
witness. It has been supposed by the appellant's counsel that
he speaks only of one conversation; and that after the judgment was entered. The inference that there was but one conversation is drawn froni the printed statement of this deposition, where the witness is stated to have sworn that all the
knowledge he had of the judgment was from a conversation
between Mrs Geary, Mr Wiley and others. But in the deposition, as contained in the record, his knowledge is stated to
have been derived from the conversation he heard between
those persons. And he afterwards speaks of a multiplicity
of conversations he heard on the subject between the years
1815 and 1820, and evidently referring to periods both before and after the entry of the judgment. The agreement
having been fully and satisfactorily established by this witness, the question arises, whether -there are any circumstances
or other testimony disclosed in the case, to sustain the bill
against the denial in the answer.
It is-certainly a well settled rule, thit on a bill praying re-

JANIUARY TERM 1831.
[Union Bank of Georgetown ivs. Geary.]

liefi when the facts charged in the bill, as the grounds for
obtaining the decree, are clearly and positively denied hy the
answer, and proved only by a single witness, the court will
not decree against the defendant. And it is equally well settled, that where the witness on the part of the complainant issupported and corroborated by circumstances sufficient to outweigh the denial in the answer, the rule does not apply. 9
Cranch,. 160; 3 Condens. Rep. 325.
What are the circumstances in this case to meet and outweigh the denial in the answer? It is to be borne in. mind,
that the bill does not charge the agreement to have been made
with the bank, but with their attorney; The denial by the
bank is not therefore of any matter charged to have been
within their own knowledge. .They could therefore only
speak of their belief, or from information received from their
attorney, and not from their own knowledge of the transaction.
The denial of their ever having authorised or clirected their
attorney to hold out any inducements to the complainant to
confess judgment, or to make to her any such promise as is setV
forth in the bill, is not in answer to ,ny allegation in the bill.
The bank is not charged with having specially authorised or
directed the agreement to be made. But it is charged as the
act of their attorney; and whether this was within the scope
of his authority as attorney in the suit, will 'be hereafter
noticed.
There are other circumstances which go- very far to take
this case out of the application of the rule which requires
corroborating evidence to support the testimony of a single
witness against the answer. This is an injunction bill, filed
upon the oath of the complainant. An answer in all cases,
according to the course and practice of coutts of chancery,
must be sworn to; unless dispensed with by order of the court
under special circumstances. In the present case, the answer
being by a corporation, it is put in under their common seal,
unaccompanied by an oath. And although the reason of the
rule, which requires two witnesses, or circumstances to corroborate the testimony of one, to outweigh the answer, May
be founded in a great measure upon the consideration that
the-complainant makes the answer evidence by calling for it;

SUPREME COURT.
[Union Bank of Georgetown vs. Geary.]

yet this, is ii reference to the ordinary practice of the court,
requiring'the answer to be on oath. But the weight of such
answer is very much lessened, if not entirely destroyed as
pater of evidence, when unaccompanied by an oath: and indeed we are inclined to 'adopt it as a general rule, that an
answer not under oath is to be considered merely as a denial.
of the allegations in the jbill, analogous to the'general issue at
-law, so -ap to put the complainant to the proof of such allegations. But it is not necessary, in the present case, to go thus
far- for independent of all these circumstances the testimony
of Cloud is strongly corroborated by.that of Magruder. He
swears that Wiley was the attorney and counsel for the bank
when the judgment was confessed. That he understood from
hini that he was authorised and requested by the bank, or some
of its officers, to ajustfall such cases, and get judgments con.,
fessed by the parties; so as to avoid defences being made by
the indorsers, with respect to the insufficiency of the demand
and notice. And that Wiley requested him to call on the
complainant with a view to make such adjustment, and that
he advised her to see Mr .Wiley, who was friendly to her,
and wonld hot advise her to do any thing against her interest.
All these circumstances are abundantly sufficient to corroborate the testimony of Cloud, and outweigh the answer even
if it had been sworn to, The agreement, therefore, alleged
in the bill to have been made by Wiley, the attorney of the
bank, must be considered as fully. established. And the next
inquiry is, whether the attorney had authority to make such
agreement so as to bind the bank.
It is necessary here that it should be understood with precision what this agreement was. It seems to have been considered at the bar, by the appellants' counsel, as an agreement
to release a'nd discharge the complainant from all responsibility if she would confess judgment upon the note. But such
is not the agreement set up in the bill. It is, that if the complainant would confess judgment, and not dispute her liability
upon the note, he (the attorney) would'immediately proceed,
by execution, to make the amount thereof from Merrill, the
principal debtor, who, he assured the complainant, had sufficient property to satisfy the .same; upon the faith of .which
promise she, did confess the judgment.

JANUARY TERM 1831.
Itinion Bank of Georgetown vs. Geary.1

It is not allegeI or pretended that any special authority was
given by the hank to their attorney, to make the agreement
set up in the hill, and unless it fell within ,the scope of his
general authority as attorney in the suit, the bank cannot be
held responsible. The general authority of the attorney does
not cease with the entry of the judgment. He has at least a
right to issue an execution, although he may not have the
right to discharge such execution without receiving satisfaction. 8 Johns. 366. 10 Johns. 220" His suit does not terminate with the judgment. Proceedings on the. execution' are
proceedings in .the suit. It was therefore within the scope of
the general authority of the attotney in the suits, to postpone
the execution on the judgment against the indorser, and issue
one on the judgment against the maker of the note; and this
is the utmost extent of the alleged agreement. And indeed it
does not go thus far. The attorney only stipulated to issue
an execution immediately upon the judgment against Merrill.
And if he had authority to issue an execution, of which there
can be no doubt, he had authority to enter into an agreement
that such execution should be issued, and thereby to bind the
bank to the performance thereof. And that the bank has vi,,lated this agreement by refusing to have an execution issued
against Merrill is abundantly proved. Repeated and urgent
applications were made to them for that purpose, without
effect; and the attorney, on application' to him, admitted that
he had agreed to issue an execution immediately after obtaining the judgment, and have it levied on Merrill's property;
but said the fault was not in him, but in the directors of the
bank. No execution was issued, and Merrill was permitted
to lave the district and remove his property beyond the jurisdiction of the court. And it may very fairly be concluded
from the evidence, that had an execution been issued, the
judgment might have been satisfied out of Merrill's property.
It was proved by- several witnesses that he had considerable
property in his possession, which he took with him when he
removed from Georgetown. That he was a housekeeper, had.
his house furnished, was the owner of hacks and horses, or had
them in his possession.- But what is still more c6nclusive and
satisfactory, is the dedlaration of Wiley the at orney; who, for
the purpose of inducing the complainant to confess the judgVOL. V.-P

SUPREME COURT.
[Union Bank of Georgetown vs. Geary.]

ment, assured her that he had ascertainedthat Merrl's pro
perty was clear of incumbrance, and was sufficient to satisfy
the judgment. This necessirily implied that his knowledge
was the result of particular inquiry on the subject.
But it is objected that this contract was without any ccinsideration to support it.
The consideration alleged in the bill is, relinquishing all
defence in the action, and confessing a judgment; averring
that the complainant had a valid legal defence, which would
have defeated the right of the bank to recover on the indorsement, no due and legal demand having been made of the
maker, and notice thereof given to the indorser.
It is unnecessary to exiamine whether this defence would
have been available or not. The validity of the contract did
not depend upon that question. It is enough that the bank
considered it a doubtful question; and that they supposed
they were gaining some benefit by foreclosing all inquiry
on the subject; and the complainant, by precluding herself
from setting up the defence, waved what she supposed might
have been of material benefit to her. That the bank considered it of some importance to shut out'this defence, is fully
shown by the testimony of Magruder. He says, it was
known to the bank before the judgment was confessed, that
many of their suits against indorsers for trial at that term
were in jebpardy, in consequence of a late decision of the court
as to the insufficiency of the demand on the fourth, instead of
the third day of grace. So that this question, at the time the
contract was entered into, was considered by the bank at least
doubtful. And to permit a subsequent judicial decision on this
point in their favour, as having a retrospective effect, so as to
annul a settlement or agreement made by them under a different state of things, would he sanctioning a most mischievous principle.
In addition to this, there was a moral obligation resting
upon the bank to do the very thing their attorney stipulated
to do. Every consideration of justice and equity, in a moral.
though not in a legal point of view, called upon them to use
due diligence to obtain satisfaction of the debt from the principal before recourse was- had to the surety.
The decrce of the circuit court granting a perpetual injunction is accordingly-affirmed.

