THE DECISIONS
or

THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
AT

•IANUARY TERM 1831.

THE CHrtoKnE

NATION VS.

THE

STATn Op GEORGIA.

Motion for an injunction to prevent the execution of certain acts of the legislature df the state of Georgia in the territory of the Cherokee nation of Indians,
on behalf of the Cherokee nation; they claiming to proceed in the supreme
court of the United States as a foreign st;'te against the state of Georgia; under
the provision of the constitution of the United States, which gives to the court
jurisdiction in controversies in which a state of the United States. or the
citizens thereof, and a foreign state, citizens, or subjects thereof, are parties.
The Cherokee nation is not a foreign state, in the sense in which the term
"foreign state" is used in the constitution of the United States.
The third article of the constitution of the United States describes the extent
of the judicial power. The second section'closes an enumeration of the cases
to which it extends, with "controversies between a state or the citizens
thereof, and foreign states, citizens or subjects," A subsequent clause of the
same section gives the supreme court original jurisdiction in all cases in which
a state shall be a party-the state of Georgia may then certainly be sued in
this court.
The Cherokees are a state. They have been uniformly treated as a state since
the settlement of our country. The numerois treaties made with them by the
United States recognize them as a people capable of maintaining the relations.
of peace and war; of being responsible in their political, character for any
violation of their engagemetis, or for any aggression committed on the citizens of the United States by any individual of their community. Laws have

VOL. V.-A

SUPREME&COURT.
LThe Cherokee Nation-is. The State of Georgia.]
been enacted in the spirit of theso treaties. The acts of our government
plainly recognize the Cherokee nation.as a state; and the courts are bound by
those acts.
The condition of the Indians, in relatiou to the United States, is perhaps unlike
that of any other two people in existence. In general, nations not owing
a common allegiance are foreign to each other. The term foreign nation is
with strict propriety applicable by either to thb other. But the relation of the
Indians to the United States is marked by peculiar and cardiual distinctions
which exist no where else.
Tile Indians are acknowledged" to have an unquestionable, and heretofore an
unquestioned right to tile lands they occupy, until that right shall be extinguished by a voluntary cession to our government. It may well be doubled
whether those tribes which reside within the acknowledged boundaries of the
-United States can with strict accuracy-be denominated foreign nations. They
may more correctly perhaps be denominated domestic dependent nations.
They occupy a territory to which we assert a title independent of their will,
which must take efect in point of possession when their right of possession
ceases-meanwhile they are in a state of pupilage. Their relations to the
United States resemble that of a ward to his guardian. They look to our
government for protection; rely upon its kindness and its power; appeal to it for
relief to their wants; and address the President as their great father.
The bill filed on behalf of the Cherokees seeks to restrain a state from tle fori.
ble exercise of ldgislative power over a neighbouring people asserting their independence; their right to which the state denies. On several of the matters
alleged in the bill, for example on the laws making it criminal to exercise the
usual -power of self government in their own country by tie Cherokee nation,
this court 6annot interpose, at least in time form in which those matters are'
presented. That part of the bill which respects the land occupied by the
Indians, and prays the aid of time court to protect their possessions, may be
more doubtful. The mere question of right might perhaps be decided by this
court, in a proper case, with proper parties.. But the court is asked to do more
than decide on the title. The-bill requires us to control the legislature of
Georgia, and to restrain the exertion of its physical force. The propriety of
such an interposition by the t-ourt may well be questioned. It savours too
much of the 6xerciso of political power, to be within the proper province of the
judicial department..

THis case came before the court on a motion on behalf of the
Cherokee nation of. Indians for a subpcena, and for an injunction, to restrain the state of Georgia, the governor, attorneygeneral, judges, justices of the peace, shcriffs, deputy sheriffs,
coristables,-and others the officers, agents, and servants of that
state, from executing and enforcing the laws of Georgia or any
of these laws, or serving process, or doing any thing towards
the execution or enforcement of those laws, within the Cherokee territory, as designated by treaty between the United
Staites and the Cherokee nation.
The motion was made, after not ir. and. a copy of the bill

JANUARY TERM 1,31
[The Cherokee Nation vs. The State of Georgia.J

filed at the instance and undei the authority of the Cherokee nation, had been served on the governor and attorney-general of
the state of Georgia on the 27th December 1830, and the lstof
January 1831. The notice stated that the motion would be
made in this court on Saturday, the 5th day of March 1831.
The bill was signed by John Ross, principal chief of the
Cherokee nation, and an affidavit, in the usual form, of the.
facts stated in the bill was annexed; which was sworn to before a justice of the peace of Richmond county, state of
Georgia.
The bill set forth the complainants to be "the. Cherokee
nation of Indians, a foreign state, not owing .allegiance to the
United States, nor t6 any state of this union, nor to any prince,
potentate or state, other than their own."
"That from time immemorial the Cherokee nation have
composed a sovereign and independent state, and in this cha-acter have been repeatedly recognized, and still stand recognized by the United States, in the various treaties subsisting
between their nation and the United States."
That the Cherokees were the occupants and owners of the
territory in which they now reside, before the first approach
of the white men of Europe to tl e western, continent; -c deriving their title from the Great Spirit, who is the common
father of the human family, and to whom the whole earth belongs." Composing the Cherokee nation, they and their ancestors have been and are the sole and exclusive masters of
this territory, governed by their own laws, usages, and
customs.
The bill states the grant, by a charter in 1732, of the country
on this continent lying between the Savannah and Alatahama
rivers, by George the Second, "monarch of several islands
on the eastern coast of the Atlantic," thesanme country being
then in the ownership of several distinct, sovereign, and independent nations of Indians, and amongst them the Cherokee
nation.
The foundation of this charter, the bill states is asserted to
be'theright of discovery to the territory granted; a ship manned by the subjects of thu king having, - about two centuries
and a half before. sailed along the'coant of the westcrn hemisphere, fron. the fifty sixth to the thirty-cighth de;,gree of north

4

SUPREME COURT.
(The Cherokee Nation vs. The State of Georgia.]

latitude, and looked "upon the face of that coast without even
landing on any part of it." This right; as affecting the right
of the Indian nation, the bill denies;' and asserts that-the whole
length to which the right of discovery is claimed to extend
among European nations is to give to the first discoverer
the prior and exclusive right to purchase these lands from the
Indian proprietors, .against all other European sovereigns:
to which principle the Indians have never assented; and Which
they deny to be a principle of the, natural law of nations, or
obligatory on them.
The bill alleges, that it never was claimed under the charter
of George'the Second, that the grantees had a right to disturb the self go-ernment of the Indians who were in possession of the country; and that, on the contrary, treaties were
made by the -first adventurers with the Indians, by which a
p art of the teiritory was acquired by them for a valuable consideration; and *no pretension was ever made to set up the
British laws in the country owned by the Indians. That various treatfes have been, from time to time, made between the
British colony in Georgia; between the state of Georgia, before her confederation with the other states; between the confederate states afterwards; and, finally, between the United
States under their present constitution, and the Cherokee
nation, as well as other nations of Indians: in all of which
the Cherokee nation, and the other nations have been recognized as sovereign and independent states;. posses'sing both the
exclusive right to their territory, and the exclusive 'right of
self government within that territory. That the various pro'ceedings from time to time had by the congress of the United
States under the articles of their confederation, as well as
under the present constitution of the United States, in relation
to the subject of the Indian nations; confirm the 5ame view of
the subject.
The bill proceeds to refer o'tthe treaty concluded at Hopewell on the 28th November 1785, "between the commissioners of the United States and head men and warrio-'s of all the
lUhegokees; '" the treaty of Holston of the 22d duly 1791,
" between the president of tl;e United States by his duly
authorized commissioner, William Blount, and the chiefs and
warriors of the Cherokee nation of Indians," and the additional

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[The Cherokee Nation vs. The State of Georgia.]

article of 17th November 1792, made at Philadelphia by
Henry Knox, the secretary at war, acting on behalf of the
United States; the treaty made at Philadelphia on the 26th
June 1794; the treaties between the same parties made at Tellico 2d October 1790; on the 24th October 1804; on the 25th
October 1805, and the 27th October 1805; the treaty at Washington on the 7th January 1806, with the proclamation of that
convention by the president, and the elucidation of that convention of 11th September 1807; the treaty between the United
'-tates and the Cherokee nation made at the city of Washington on the 22d day of March 1816; another convention made
at the same place, on the same day, by the same parties; a
treaty made at the Cherokee agency on the 8th July 1807; and
a treaty made at the city of Washington on the 27th February
1819: "all of which treaties and conventions were duly ratified and confirmed by the senate of the United States, and became thenceforth, and still are, a part of the supreme law of
the land."
By those treaties the bill asserts the. Cherokee nation of Indians are acknowledged and treated with as sovereign and independent states, within the boundary arranged by those treaties: and that the complainants are, within the boundaiyestablished by the treaty of 1719, sovereign and independent; with
the right of self government, without any right o'f interference with the same on the part of'any state of the United
States. The hill calls the attention of ihe court to the particular provisions of those treaties, cfor the purpose of verifying the truth of the general principles deduced from them.."
The bill alleges, from the earliest Ltercourse between the
United States and the Cherokee nation, an ardent desire has
teen evinced by the United States to lead the Cherokees to a
greater degree of civilization. This is shown by the fourteenth
article of 'the treaty of Holston; and by the cours(, pursued'
by the United States-in 1808, when a treaty was made, giving
t6 a portion of the nation which preferred the' hunter state a
territory on the west of the Mississippi, in exchange for a part
of the lower country of the Cherokees; and assurances were
given by the president that those who chose to remain for the
purpose, of engaging in-the pursuits of agricultural and civilized life, in the country they occupied, might rely "con ie

6

SUPREME COURT.
[The Chcrokee Nation vs. The State of Georgia.]

patronage, aid and good neighbourhood of'the United States. '
The treaty of 8th July 1817 was made to carry those prornises into effect; and in reliance on them a large cession of
lands was thereby made: ahd in 1819, on the 27th February,
another treaty was made, the preamble of which recites that
a greaier part of the Cherokee nation -had expressed an earnest desire to remain on this side of the Mississippi, and were
desirous to commence those measures which they deem
necessary to the civilizatioh and preservationof their nation; to give effect to which 'object, without delay, that treaty
was declared to be -made; anU another large cession of their
lands was, thereby, made byl them to the United States.
By a reference to the sevei'al treaties, it will be seen that a
fund is provided for the establishment of schools; and the bill
asserts that great progress habeen made by the Cherokees in
civilization and in agriculture.
" They have established a constitution and form of government, the leading features of which they have borrowed from
that of the United States; dividing their government into
three separate departments, legislative, executive and judicial.
In conformity with this constitution, these departments have
all'been organized. They have formed a code of laws, civil and
criminal, adapted to their situation; have erected courts to expound and apply thpse laws, and organized an executive to
carry them into effect They have established- schools for the
"education of their children, and churches 'in
which the Christian religion is taught; they have abandoned the hunter state,
and become agriculturists, mechanics, and herdsmen; and,
under provocations long continued and hard to be borne, they
have observed, with fidelity, all their engagements by treaty
with the United States.
-Under the promised "1patronage and good neighbourhood"
of the United States, a portion of the people of the nation
have become civilized Christians and agriculturists; and the
bill alleges that in these respects they are willing to submit to
a comparison with their white brethren around them.
The bill claims for the Cherokee nation the benefit of the
provision in -the constitution; that treaties are the supreme
law of the land; and all judges are bound thereby: of the declration in the constitution, that no state shall pass any law

JANUARY TERM is3.
[The Cherokee Nation vs. The State of Georgia.]

impairing the obligation of contracts: and avers that all the
treaties referred to are contracts of the highest character and of
the most solemn obligation. It asserts that the constitutional
provision, that congress shall have power to regulate commerce with the Indian tribes, is a power which from its nature is exclusive; and consequently forbids all interference by
any one of the states. That congress have, in execution of
this power, passed various acts, and among otheis the act of
1802, "to regulate trade and intercourse with the Indian tribes,
and to preserve peace on the frontiers." The objects of these
.acts are to consecrate the Indian boundary as arranged by the
treaties; and they contain clear recognitions of the sovereignty
of the Indians, and of their exclusive right to give and to execute the law within that boundary.
The bill proceeds to state that, in violation of these treaties,
of the constitution of the United States, and of the amc of
congress of 1802, the state of Georgia, at a session of her
legislature held in Decembbr in the year 1828, passed an act,
which received the assent of the governor of that state on the
twentieth day of that month and year; entitled, "an act to
add the territory lying within this state and occupied by the
Cherokee Indians, to the counties of Carroll, Pe Kalb, Gwinett,
Hall, and Habersha.m, and to extend. the laws of this gtate
over the same, and for other purposes." That afterwards, to
wit in the year 1829, the legislature of th6 said state of Georgia
passed another act, which received the assent of the governor
on the 19th December of that year, entitled, ci an act to add
the territory lying within the chartered limits of Georgia, now
in the occupancy. of the Cherokee Indians, to the counties of
Carroll, De Kalb, Gwinett, Hall, and Habersham, and to- extend the laws of this state over the same, and to annul all laws
and ordinances made by the Cherokee nation of Indians, and
to provide for the compensation of officers serving legal processes in said territory, and to regulate the 'testimony of Indians, and to repeal the ninth section of the act of 1828 on tfiis
subject".
The effect of these laws, and their purposes, are ptated to be,
to.parcel out the territory of the Cherokees; to extend all the
laws of Georgia over the same; to abolish the Cherokee laws,
and to deprive the Cherokees of the protection of their laws;

8

SUPREME COURT.
[the Cherokee Nation vs. The State of Georgia.]

to prevent them, as, individuals, from enrolling for emigration,
under the penalty of indictment befdre the state courts of
Georgia; to make it murder in. the officers of the Cherokee
government to inflict the sentence of death in conformity with
the Cherokee laws, subjecting them all to indictment therefor,
and death by hanging; extending the jurisdiction of the justiees of the peace of Georgia into the Cherokee territory, and
authorising the calling out of the militia of Georgia to enforce
the process; and finally, declaring ihat no Indian, or descendant of any-Indian, residing within the Cherokee nation of Indians, shall be deemed a competent witness in any court of
the state of Georgia, in which a white person may be- a party,
except such white person resides within the said nation.
All these laws are averred to be null and void: becaffse repugjaant to treaties in full 'force; to the constitution of the
United States; and to the act of congress of 1802.
The bill then proceeds to state the interference of president
Washington for the protection of the Cherokees, and the re-_
solutions of the senate in consequence of his reference of the
subject of'intrusions on their -territory. That in 1802 the
state of Georgia; in ceding to -theUnited States a large body of
lands within-her alleged chartered limits, and imposing a condition that the Iidian title should be peaceably extinguished,
admitted the subsisting Indidn title. That cessions of territory
have always been voluntarily made by the Indians in Their national character; and that cessions have been made of as much
land as could be spared, until the cession of 1.819,'- "when
tley had reduced their territory into as small a compass as
their own convenience would bear; and they then accordingly resolved to cede no more." The bill then refers to the
various applications of Georgia to the United States to extinguish the Indian title -by force, and her denial of the obligations of the treaties wit the Cherokees; although under these
treaties large additioni to her disposable lands had been made;and states, that presidents Monroe and Adams, in succession,
understanding theartieles of cession and agreement between
the state of Georgia and the United States in the year 1802,
as biading the United States to extinguish the Indian title, so
soon dnly as it could be. done, peaceably and on reasonable
terms; refused, themselves, to apply force to these complain-

JANUARY TERM 1831..
[The Cherokee Nation vs. The State of Georgia.]

ants, or to permit it to be applied by the state of Georgia, to
drive them from their possession; but, on the contrary,
avowed their determination to protect these complainants by
force if necessary, and to fulfil the guarantee given to them
by the treaties.
The state of Georgia, not having succeeded'in these applications to the government of the United States, have resorted
to legislation, intending to force, by those means, the Indians
from their territory. Unwilling to resist by force of arms
these pretensions and efforts, the bill states, that -application
for protection, and for the execution of the guarantee of the
treaties, has been made by the Cherokees to the present president of the United States, and they have received for answer,
"9that the president of the United States has no power to protect them against the laws of Georgia."
The bill proceeds to refer to the act of congress, of 1830,
entitled " an act to provide for an exchange of lands with the
Indians residing in any of the states or territories, and for
their removal west of the Mississippi." The act is to apply
to such of the Indians as may choose to remove, and by the
proviso to it, nothing contained in the act shall be construed
as authorising or directing the violation of any existing treaty
between the United States and any of the Indian tribes.
The complainants have not chosen to remove, and this, it
is alleged, it is sufficient for the complainants to say- but they..
proceed to state, that they are fully satisfied with the country
they possess; the climate is salubrious; it is convenient for
commerce and intercourse; it contains schools, in which they
can obtain teachers- from the heighbouring states, and places
for the worship of God, where Christianity is taught by missionaries and pastors easily supplied from the United States.
The country, too, "is consecrated in their affections from
having been immemorially the property and residence 6f their
ancestors, and from containing now the graves of their fathers,
relatives, and friends." Little is known of the country west
of the Mississippi; and if accepted, the bill asserts it will be
the grave not only of their civilization and Christianity, but of
the nation itself.
It also alleges that the portion of the nation who emigrated
VOL. V.-B

SUPREME COURT.
[The Cherokee Nation vs. The State of Georgia.]

under the patronage and sanction of the. president in 1808 and
1-809, and settled on the territory assigned to them on the
Arkansas river, were afterWards required to remove again;
and that they did so under the stipulations of a treaty made
in May 1828. The place, to which they removed under this
last treaty, is said to be exposed to incursions of hostile Indians, and that they are "engaged in constant scenes of killing and scalping, and have to wage a war of extermixation
with more powerful tribes, before whom they will ultimately
They have th--rc.ore, decidedly rejected the offer of
fall."
exchange. The bill then proceowls to state various acts under
the authority of the laws of Georgia, in defiance of the treaties referred to, and of the constitution of the United States,
as expressed in the act of 1802; and that the state of Georgia
nas declared its determination to continue to enforce these
laws so long as the complainants shall continue to occupy
their territory.
But while these laws are cnforced in a manner the most
harassing and vexatious to your complainants, the design
seems to have been deliberately formed to carry no one of
these cases to final decision in the state courts; with the view,
as the complainants believe and therefore allege, to prevent
any one of the Cherokee defendants from carrying those cases
to the supreme court of the United States, by writ of error
for review, under the twenty-fifth- section of the act of congress -of the United States, passed in the year 1789, and entitled
"an act to establish the jtudicial courts of the United States."
Numerous instances of proceedings are set forth at large in
the bill. The complainants expected protection from these
unconstitutional acts of Georgia, by the troops of the United
States; but notice has been given by the commanding officer
of those troops to John Ross, the principal chief of the Cherokee nation, that "these troops, so. far from protecting the
Cherokees, would co-operate with the civil officers of Georgia,
Under these circumin enfcdrciqg their laws upon them."
stances it is said that it cannot but be seen that unless this
court shall interfere, the complainants have but these alternatives: either to surrender their lands in exchange for others
in the western wilds of this continent, which would be to seal,
at once, the doom of their- civilization, Christianity., and na-

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[The Cherokee Nation vs. The State of Georgia.]

tional existence; or to surrender their national sovereignty,
their property, rights and liberties, guarantied as these now are
by so many treaties; to the rapacity and injusticv df the state
of Georgia; or to arm themselves in defence of these sacred
rights, and fall sword in hand, on- the graves of their fathers.
These proceedings it is*alleged are wholly inconsistent with
equity and good cunscience, tend to the manifest w.rong of the
coinplainants; and violate the fai(h' of the treaties to which
Georgia and. the United States are partles, arrd-of the constitution of the United Sihtes. These, wrongs are .ot a character
wholly irremediable by the common law; and th'ese coiplainants are wholly without iemedy of any kindi except by
the interposition of this honourable court.
The bill avers that this court has, by the constitution and
laws of the, United States, original jurisdiction of controversies between a state and a foreign state, without any restriction as to the nature of the. controversy; that, l'y the constitution, treaties are the supreme law of the land. That as a
foreign state, the complainants claim the exercise 6f the powers of the court to protect them in their rights, and that.the
laws of Georgia, which interfere with their rightb and'propertyi shall be declared void, and their execution -be perpetually'enjoined.
The bill states that John Ross is 4 the principal, chief and
executivehead of the Cherokee nation;" and that, in a full and
regular council of that nation, he has been ddly authorised- to
institute this and all other suits which may become necessary
for the assertion of the rights of the entire nation.
The bill then proceeds in the usual form to ask and answer
to the allegations contained in it, and "4-that the, said state of
Georgia, her goverfior, attorney-general, judges, magistrates,
sheriffs, deputy sheriffs, constables, and all other 4ier officers,
agents, and servants;civil and military, mby be dnjoined and
prohibited from executing the laws of that state within the
boundary of the Cherokee territory, as prescribed by th'i treaties now subsisting between the United States and the Cherokee nation, or interfering in 'any manner with the rights of self
government possessed by the Cherokee nation within the limits
of their territory, as defined by the treaty; that the two laws of
Georgia before mentioned as having been passed in the years

SUPREME COURT.
,LThe Cherokee Nation vs. The State of Georgia.]

1828 and 1829 may, by the decree of this honourable court,
be declared unconstitutional and void; and that the state of
Georgia, and all her officers, agents, and servants may be forever enjoined from interfering with the- lands, mines, and
other property, real and personal, of the Cherokee national
with the persons of the Cherokee people, for, or on aceounit
of any thing done by them within the limits of the Cherokee
territory; that the pretended right of the state of Georgia to
the possession, government? or control of the lands, mines)
and other property of the Cherokee nation, within their territory, may, by this honourable court, be.declared to be unfounded and void, and that the Cherokees may be left in the
utdisturbed possession, use, and enjoyment of the same, according to their own sovereign right and pleasure, and their
own laws, usages, and customs, free from any .hindrance, molestation, or interruption by the state of Georgia, her officers,
agents, and servants; that these complainants may be quieted
in the possession of all their -rights, privileges, and immunities, under their various treaties with the United States; and
that they may have such other and farther relief as this honourable court may deem consistent with equity and good conscience, and as the nature of their case may require."
On the day appointed for the hearing,.the counsel for the complainants filed.a supplemental bill, sworn to by Richard Taylor,
John Ridge, and W. S. Coodey of the Cherokee nation of
Indians, before a justice of the peace of the.county of Washington in the district of Columbia.
The supplemehtal bill states,, that since their bill, now submitted, was drawn, the following acts, demonstrative of the
determination of the state of Georgia to enforce her assumed
-authority over the complain'ants and their territory, property,
and jurisdiction, have taken place.
The individual, called in that bill Corn Tassel, and mentioned
as having been arrested in the Cherokee territory under process
issued under the laws of Georgia, has been actually hung; in
defiance of a writ of error allowed by the chief justice of this
court to the final sentence of the court of Georgia in his case.
That writ of error,having been received by the governor of the
state was, as the complainants are informed and believe,
immediately communicated 'by him to the legislature of the

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[The Cherokee Nation vs. The State of Georgia.]

state, then in session; who promptly resolved, in substance,
that the supreme court of' the United States had no jurisdiction
over the subject, and advised the immediate execution of the
prisoner, under the sentence of the state court; which accordingly took place.
The complainants beg leave farther to state, that the legislature of the state of Georgia, at the same session, passed the
following laws, which have received the sanction of the governor of the state.
"An act to authorize the survey and disposition of lands
within the limits of Georgia, in the occupancy of the Cherokee tribe of Indians, and all other unlocated lands within the

limits of the saic[ state, claimed as Creek land; and to authorize the governor to call out the military force to protect surveyors in the discharge of their duties: and to provide for the
punishment of persons who may prevent, or attempt to prevent any surveyor -from performing his duties, as.pointed out
by this act, or who shall wilfully cut down or deface any
marked trees, or remove any land-marks which may be made
in pursuance of this act; and to protect the Indians in the
peaceable possession of their improvements, and of the lots on
which the same may be situate."
Under this law it is .tated that the lands within the boundary of the Cherokee territory are to be surveyed, and to be
distributed by lottery among the people of Georgia.
At the same session the legislature of Georg:a passed another act, entitled, "an act to declare void all contracts hereafter made with the Cherokee Indians, so far as the Indians
are concerned;" which act received the assent of the governor
of the state on the 23d of December"1830.
The legislature of Georgia, at its same session, passed ano-ther law, entitled, "an act to provide for the temporary disposal of the improvements and possessions purchased from
certain Cherokee Indians and residents;" which act received
the assent of the governor of the state the 22d December 1830.
At its same session the legislaturd of Georgia passed another
law, entitled, "ean act to prevent the exercise of assumed
and arbitrary powe: by all persons under pretext of authority
from the Cherokee 'Indians and their laws, and' to prevent
white persons from residing within that part of the chartered

SUPREME COURT.
[The Cherokee Nation vs. Thq State of Georgia.]

limits of Georgia occupied by the Cherokee Indians, and to
provide a guard for the protection of the gold mines, and to
enforce the laws of the state within the aforesaid territory."
At the same session of its legislature, the state of Georgia
passed another act, entitled "l an act to authorize the governor
to take possession of the gold, silver, and other mines, lying
and being in that section of the chartered limits of Georgia,
commonly called the- Cherokee country, and those upon all
other unappropriated lands.of the state, and for punishing any
person or persons who may hereafter be found trespassing
upon the mines."
The supplemental bill further states the proceedings of the
governor of Georgia, undeik these laws; and that he has station*ed an armed force of the citizens of Georgia, at the gold
mines within the'territory of the complainants, who are engaged in enforcing the laws of Georgia. Additional acts of
violence and injustice are said to have been done under the
authority of the laws of Georgia,'and by her officers and agents,
within the Cherokee territory.
The complainants allege that the several legislative acts,
herein set f6rth and referred to, are in direct violation of the
treaties enumerated in their bill. to which this is asupplement,
as well as in direct violation.of the constitution of the United
States, and the act of congress passed under its authority in
the year 1802, entitled, "an act to regulate trade and intercourse with the Indian tribes, and to preserve peace on the
frontiers."
They pray that this supplement- inay be taken and teceived
* as a part of their.bill; that the several laws of Georgia herein
set forth may be declared by the decree of this court to be
null and void, on the ground of the.repugnancy to the constitution, laws, and treaties set forth above, and in the bill to
which this is a supplement; and that these complainants may
have. the same relief by injunction and a decree of peace, or
otherwise, according to equity and good. conscience, against
these laws, as against those which are the subject of their bill
as first drawn.
The case was argued on the part of the complainants by Mr
Sergeant and Mr Wirt. No counsel appeared for the state
of Georgia.

JANUARY TERM- 1831.
[The Cherokee Nation vs. The State of Georgia.]

Por the complainants it was contended,
1. That the parties before the court were such as, under the
constitution, to give to this court original jurisdiction of the
complaint made by the one against the other,
2. That such a case or controversy, of a judicial nature, was
presented by the bill, as to warrant and-require the interposition of the authority of the court.
3. That the facts stated by the complainants exhibited such
a case in equity, as to entitle them to the specific remedy by
the injunction prayed for in the bil.
Mr Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This bill is brought by the Cherokee nation, praying an
injunction to restrain the state of Georgia from the execution
of certain laws of that state, which, as is alleged, go dixectly to
annihilate the Cherokees as a political society, and to seize, for
the use of Georgia, the lands of the nation which have been
assured to them by the United States in solemn treaties repeatedly made and still in force.
If courts were permitted to indulge their sympathies, a case
better calculated to excite them can scarcely be imagined. A
people once numerous, powerful, and truly independent,
found by ojur ancestors in the quiet and uncontrolled -possession of an ample domain, gradually sinking beneath our superior policy, our arts and our arms, have yielded their lands by
successive treaties, each of which contains a solemn guarantee
of the residue, until they retain no more of their formerly extensive territory than is deemed necessary to their comfortable
stbsistence. To preserve this rcinnant, the present application
is made.
Before we can look into the merits of the case, a preliminary inquiry presents itself. Has this court jurisdiction of
the cause?
The third article of the con4iturion describes the extent of
the judicial power. The second section closes an enumeration of the cases to which it is extended, with 9: controversies" ", between a state or the citizens thereof, and foreign
states, citizens, or subjects." A subsequent clause of the same
section gives the supreme court original jurisdiction in all

SUPREME COURT.
[The Cherokee Nation vs. The State of Georgia.]

cases in which a state shall be a party. The party defendant
may then unquestionably be sued in this court. May the,
plaintiff sue in it? Is the Cherokee nation a foreign state in
the sense in which that term is used in the constitution?
The counsel -for the plaintiffs have maintained the affirmative of this proposition with great earnestness and ability.
So muchof the argument as was intended to prove the character'of the Cherokees as a state, as a distinct political society,
separated from others, capable of managing- its own affairs and
governing itself, has, in the opinion of a majority of the judges;
been completely successful. They have been uniformly treated
as a state from the settlement of our country. The numerous
treaties made with thenM by the United States recognize them
as a people capable of maintaining the relations of peace and
war, of being responsible in their political character for any
violation of their engagements, or -for any aggression committed on the citizens of the United States by any individual
of their community. Laws have been enacted in the spirit
of these treaties. The acts of our government plainly lfecognize the Cherokee nation as a statt, and the courts are bound
by those acts.
A question of much more difficulty remains. Do the Cherokees constitute a foreign state in the sense of the constitution?
The counsel have shown conclusively that they are not a
state of the union, and have insisted that individually they are
aliens, not owing allegiance to the United States. An aggregate of aliens composing a state must, they say, be a foreign
state. Each individual being foreign, the whole must be
foreign.
This argument is imposing, but we must examine it*more
closely before we yield to it. The condition of the Indians
in relation to the United States is perhaps unlike that of any
other two people in existence. In the general, nations not
owing a common allegiance are.foreign to each other.. The
term foreign nation is, with strict propriety, applicable' by
either to the other. But he relation of the Indians to.fhe
United States is marked br peculiar and cardinal distinctions
which exist no where else.

JANUARY TERM 18S1.
[The Cherokee- Nation vs. The State of Georgia.]

The 'Indian territory is admitted to compose a part of the
United States. In all our maps, geographical treatises, histories, and laws, it is so considered. In all our intercourse
with foreigrg nations, in our commercial regulations, in any
attempt at intercourse between Indians and foreign nations,they
are considered as within the jurisdictional limits of the United
States, subject to many of those restraints which are imposed
upon our own citizens. They acknowledge themselves in their
treaties to be under the protection of the United States; they
admit that the United States shall have the sole. and exclusive
right of regulating the trade with them, and managing all
their affairs as they think proper; and the 'Cherokees in
particular were allowed by the treaty of Hopewell, which preceded the constitution, "to send a deputy of their choice,
whenever they think fit, to congress." Treaties were made
with some tribes by the state of New York, under a then unsettled construction of the confederation? by which they ceded
all their lands to that state, taking back a limited grant to
themselves, in whichthey admit their dependence.
Though the Indians are acknowledged-to have an unquestionable, and, heretofore, unquestioned right to the lands they
occupy, until that right shall be extinguished by a voluntary
cession to our government; yet it may well be doubted whether
those tribes which reside within the acknowledged boundaries
of the United States can, with strict accuracy, be denominated
foreign nations. They may, more correctly, perhaps, be denominated domestic dependent nations. They occupy a territory to which we assert a title independent of their will,
which must take effect in point of possession when their right
of possession ceases. Meanwhile they are in a state of pupilage. Their relation to the United States resembles that of
a ward to his guardian.
They look to our government for protection; rely upon its
kindness and its power; appeal to it for relief to their wants;
and address the president as their great father. They and
their country are considered by foreign nations, as well as by
ourselves, as being so completely under the sovereignty and
dominion of the United States, that any attempt to acquire
their lands, or to form a political connexion with them, would
VOL. V.-dC

SUPREME' COURT.
[The Cherokee Nation vs. The State of Georgia.].

be considered by all as an invasion" of our territory, and at
act f hostility.
These considerations go far t&support the opinion, that the
framers of our constitution had not the Indian tribes in view,
when they opened the courts of the union to controversies
between a state or the citizens thereof, and foreign states.
In considering this subject, the habits and usages of the
Indians, in their intercourse with their white neighbours, ought
not to be entirely disregarded. At -the time the constitution
was framed, the idea of appealing to an American court of
justice for an assertion of right or a redress of wrong, had
perhaps never entered the mind of an Indian or of his tribe.
Their appeal was to the tomahawk, or to the 'government.
This was well understood by the statesmen who framed the
constitution of the United States, and might furnish some reason for omitting to enumerate them among the parties v~ho
might sue in the courts of the union. Be this as it.may; the
peculiar relations between the United -States and the Indians
occupying our territory are such, that we.should feel much
difficulty in considering them as designated by the termforeign
state, were there no other part of the constitution which might
shed light on the meaning of these words.. But we thirk that
in construing them, considerable aid is furnished by that clause
in the eighth section'of the third article; which empowers congress to "6regulate commerce with foreign nations, and among
the several states, and with the Indian. tribes."
In this clause they are as clearly contradistinguished by a
name appropriate to themselves, from foreign nations, as
from the several states composing the finion. They are designated by a distinct appellation; and as this appellation can
be applied to neither of the others, neither can the appellation
distinguishing either of the others be in fair construction applied to them. The objects, to which the power of regulating
commerce might be directed, are divid d into three distinct
classes-foreign nations, the several states, and Indian tribes.
When forming this article, the convention considered them
as entirely distinct. We cannot assume that the distinction
was lost in framing a Subsequent .article, unless there be
something in its language to authorize the assumption.
The counsel for the plaintiffs contend that the words ccIn-

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[The Cherokee Nation vs. The State of Georgia.3

dian tribes" were introduced into the article, empowering
congress to regulate commerce, for the purpose of removing
those doubts in which the management of Indian affairs was
involved by the language of the ninth article of the confederation. Intending to give the whole power of managing those
affairs to the government about to be instituted, the convention conferred it explicitly; and omitted those qualifications
which embarrassed the exercise of it as granted in the confederation. This may be admitted without weakening the construction which has been intimated: Had the Indian tribes
been foreign nations, in the view of the convention; this exclusive power of regulating intercourse with them might have
been, and most probably would have been, specifically given,
in language indicating that idea, not in language contradistinguishing them from foreign nations. Congress might
have.been' empowered "to regulate commerce with foreign nations, including, the Indian tribes, and among the
several states."- This language. would have suggested itself to statesmen who considered the Indian tribes as foreign
nations, and were yet desirous of nentioning them particularly.
It has been also said, that the same words have not necessarily the sanie meaning attached to them when found in different parts -of the same* instrument: their nieaning is controlled by the context. This is undoubtedly true. In common language the same word has.various meanings, aid the
peculiar sense in w'hich it is used in any sentence is .to be determined by the context. This may not be equally true with
respect to proper names. Foreignnations is a general term,
the application of which to Indian tribes, when used in the
American constitution, id at best extremely questionable. In
one article in which a power is given to be exercised in regard
to foreign nations generally, and to the Indian tribes particularly, they are mentionea as separate in terms clearly contradistinguishing.them from each other. We perceive plainly
that the constitution in this article does not comprehend Indian tribes in the general term "foreign nations;" not we
presume because a tribe may not be a nation, but because it is
not foreign to the United States. When, afterwards, the term
"foreign state" is introduced, we cannot impute to the conven'tion the intention to desert its former meaning, and to comprehend Indian tribes within it, unless the context force that

SUPREME COURT.
[The Cherokee Nation vs. The State of Georgia.]

construction on us. We find nothing in the context, and
nothing in the subject of the article, which leads to it.
The court has bestowed its best attention on this question,
and, after mature deliberation, the majority is of opinion that
an Indian tribe or nation within the United States is not
a foreign state in the 'sense of the constitution, and cannot
maintain an action in the courts of the United States.
A serious additional objection exists to the jurisdiction of
the court. Is the matter of the bill the proper subject forjudicial inquiry and decision? -It seeks to restrain a state from
the forcible exercise of legislative power over a neighbouring
people, asserting their independence; their right to which the
state denies. On several of the matters alleged in the bill,
for example on the laws making it criminal to exercise the
usual powers of self government in their own country by the
Cherokee nation, this court cannot interpose; at )east in the
form in which those iatters -are presented.
'"hat part of the bill which respects the land occupied by the
Indians,and prays the aid of the courtto protect their possession,
may be more doubtful. The mere question of right might perhaps be decided bythis court in a proper case with proper parties.
But the court is asked to do more than decide on the title. The
bill requires us to control the legislature of Georgia, and to
restrain the exertion of its physical force. The propriety of
such an interposicion by the court may be well questioned.
It savours too much of the exercise of political power to be
within the proper province of the judicial department. But
the opinion on thepoint respecting parties makes it unnecessary to decide this question.
If it be true that the Cherokee'nation bAve rights, this is
not the tribunal in which those rights are to b. Asserted. If
it be true that wrongs have been inflicted, and that still greater
are to be apprehended, this is not the tribunal which can redress the past or prevent the future.
The motion for an injunction is denied.
Mr Justice JoHNsoN. -In pursuanoe of my practice in giving
an opinion on all constitutional questions, I must present, my
views on this. With the morality of the case I have no concern; I am called upon to consider it as a legal question.

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[The Cherokee N'afo~n'os. Thetate of Georgia.]

The object of this bill is to claim the, interposition of this
court as the means of preventing the state of Georgia, or the
public functionaries of the state of Georgia, from asserting
certain rights and powers over the country and people of the
Cherokee nation.
It is not enough, in order to come before this court for relief, that a case of injury, or of cause to apprehend injury,
qhould be made out. Besides having a cause of action, the
,omplainant must bring himself within that description of parties, who alone are permitted, under the constitution, to bring
an original suit to this court.
It is essential to such suit that a state of this union should
be a party; so says the second member of the second section
of the third article of the constitution: the other party must,
under the control of the eleventh amendment, be another state
of the union, or a foreign state. In this case, the averment is,
that the complainant is a foreign state.
Two preliminary questions then present themselves.
1. Is the complainant a foreign state in the sense of the constitution?
2. Is the case presented in the bill one of judicial cognizance?
Until these questi ns are disposed of, we have no right to
the controversy any farther than is nelook into the nat
*em. The first of the questions necesscessary to determ
arily resolves itsei" ilto two.
1. Are the Cherokees a state?
2.'Are they a foreign state?
1. I cannot but think that there are strong reasons for doubting the applicability of the epithet state, to a people so low
in the grade of organized society as our Indian tribes most
generally are. I would not here be understood as speaking,
of the Cherokees under their present form of government;
which certainly must be classed among.the most approved
forms of civil government. Whether it ,can be yet said to
have received the cQnsisteney which entitles that people to
admission into the family of nations is, I conceive, yet to be
determined by th'e executive of these states. Until then I
must think that we cannot recognize it as an existing state,

SUPREME COURT.
[The Cherokee Nation vs. The State of Georgia.]

under any other character than that which it has maintained
hitherto as one of-the Indian tribes or nations.
There are great difficulties hanging over ihe question, whether they can be considered as states under the judiciary
article of the constitution. 1. They never have been recognized
as holding sovereignty over the territory they occupy. It is
in vain now to inquire into the sufficiency of the principle, that
discovery gave the right of dominion over the country discovered. When the populous and civilized nations beyond the
Cape of Good Hope were visited, the right of discovery was
made the ground of an exclusive right to their trade, and confined to that limit. When the eastern coast of this continent,
and especially the part we inhabit, was discovered, finding it
occupied by a race of hunters, connected in society by scarcely
a semblance of organic government; the right was -extended to
the absolute appropriation of the territory, the annexation of it
to the domain of the d'scoverer. It cannot be questioned that
the right of sovereigtty, as well as soil, was notoriously asserted and exercised by the European discoverers. From
that source we derive our rights, and there is not an instance of a cession of land from an Indian nation, in which the
right of sovereignty is mentioned as a part of the matter ceded.
It may be suggested that they were uniformly cessions of land
Without inhabitants; and, therefore, words competent to make
a cession of-sovereignty were unnecessary. This, however, is
not a full answer, since soil, .as well as people, is the object
of sovereign action, and may be ceded with or without the
sovereignty, or maybe ceded with the express stipulation that
the inhabitants shall remove. In all the cessions to us from
the civilized states of the old world, and of our transfers among
ourselves, although of the same property, under the same circunistances, and even when occupied by these very Indians,
the express cession of sovereignty is to be found.
In the very treaty of Hopewell, the language or evidence of
which is appealed to as the leading proof of the existence of this
supposed state, we find the commissione~rs of the United States
expressing themselves in these-terms. "cThe commissioners
plenipotentiary of the United States give peace to all the Cherokees, and receive them into the favour and protection of the

JANUARY TERM 1821.
[The Cherokee Nation vs. The State of Georgia.]

United States on the following conditions." This is certainly the language of sovereigns and conquerors, and not the
address of equals to equals. And again, when designating
the country they are to be confined to, comprising the very
territory which is the subject of this bill, they say, "Afrt. 4.
The boundtry allotted to the Cherokees for their hunting grounds" shall be -as therein described. Certainly this
is the language of concession on our part, not theirs; and when,
thp full bearing and effect of those words, '(for their hunting
grounds," is considered, it is difficult to think that they were
then regarded as a state, or even intended to be so regarded.
It is clear that it was intended to give them no other rights
over the territory than what were needed by a race of hunters; and it is not easy to see how their advancement beyond
that state of society could ever have been promoted, or, perhapspermitted, consistentlywith the unquestioned rights of the
states, or United States, over the territory within their limits.
The pre-emptive right, and exclusive right of conquest in
case of war, was never questioned to exist in the states, .hich
circumscribed the whole or any part of the Indian grounds or
territory. To have taken it from them by direct means wouid
have been a palpab-le violation of their rights. But every advance, from the hunter state to a more fixed state of society,
must have a tendency to impair that pre-emptive right, and
ultimately to destroy it altogether, both by increasing the Indian population, and by attaching them firmly to the soil.
The hunter state bore within itself the promise of vacating the
territory, because when game ceased, the hunter would go
elsewhere to seek it. But a more fixed state of society would
amount to a permanent destruction or the hope, and, of consequence, of the beneficial character of the pre-emptive right.
But it is said, that we have extended to them the means and
inducement to become agricultural and civilized. It is true:
and the immediate object of that policy was so obviouts.as probably to have intercepted the view of ulterior consequences.
Independentlkr of the general influence of humanity, these
people were restless, warlike, and signally cruel in their irruptions during the rdvolution. The policy, therefore, of enticing them to the arts i)f
peace, and to those improvements
which war. might lay desolate, was obvious; and it was wise

SUPREME COURT.
[The Cherokee Nation ve. The State of Georgia.]

to prepare them for what was probably then contemplated, to
wit, to incorporate them in time into our respective governments: a policy which their inveterate habits and deep seated
enmity has altogether baffled. But the project of ultimately
organizing them into states, within the limits of those states
which had-not ceded or should not cede to the United States
the jurisdiction over the Indian territory within their bounds)
could not possibly have entered into the contemplation of our
government. Nothing but express authority from the states
could have justified such a policy, pursued with such a view.
To pursue this sibject a little more categorically.
If these Indians are to be called a state: then,
1. By whom are they acknowledged as such"
2. When did they become so?
3. And what are the attributes by which they are identified With other states.
As to the first question, it is clear, that as a state they are
known to nobody on earth, but ourselves, if to us:. how then
can they be said to be recognized as a member of the community of nations? Would any nation on eafth treat with them
as such? Suppose when they occupied the banks of the Mississippi or the sea coast of Florida, part of which in fact the
Seminoles now occllpy, they had declared war and issued letters of marque and reprisal against us or Great Britain, would
their iommissions be respected? If known as a state, it is by
us and us alone; and what are the proofs? The treaty of Hopewell does not even give them a 'name other than that of the
Indians; not even nation or state: but regards them as what
they were, a band of hunters, occupying as hunting grounds,.
just what territory we chose to allot them. And almost every
attilbute of sovereignty is renounced by them in that very
treaty. They acknowledge themselves" to be under the sole
and exclusive protection of the United States. They receive
the territory allotted to them as a boon, from a master or conqueror; the right of punishing intruders into that territory is
conceded, not asserted as a right; and the sole and exclusive
right of regulating their trade and managing all their affairs
in such -manner as the government of the United States shall
think proper; amounting in terms to a relinquishment of all

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[The Cherokee Nation vs TIe State of Georgia.)

power, legislative, executive and judicial to the United States,
is yielded in the ninth article.
It is true, that the twelfth article gives power to the Indians to send a deputy to congress; but suc'h deputy, though
dignified by the name, was nothing and could be nothing but
an agent,such as any other company might be represented by.
It cannot be supposed that he was to be recognized as a minister, or to sit in the congress as a delegate. There is nothing
express and nothing implied, that would clothe him with the
attributes of either of these characters. As to a seat among
the delegates, it could not be granted to him.
There is one -consequence that would necessarily flow from
the recognition of this people as a state, which of itself must
operate greatly against its admission.
Where is the rule to stop? Must every petty kraal of 'Indians, designating themselves a tribe or nation, and havinga few
hundred acres of land to hunt on exclusively, be recognized as
a state? We should indeed force into the family of-nations, a
very numerous and very heterogeneous pro.eny: The Catawhas, having in.deed a fewv more acres than -the republic of San
Marino- but oonsisting only of eighty or an hundred polls,
would then be admitted to the samc dignity. They still claim
independence, and actually execute their own penal laws, such
as they are, even to the punishment of death; and have recently
done so. We have many ancient treaties with ihem; and no
nation has been more distinctly recognized, as far as such recognition can operate fo communicate the character of a state.
But secondly, at what time did this people acquine the
character of a state?
Certainly not by the -treaty of Hopewell; for every provision
of that treaty operates to strip it of its sovereign attributes;
and nothing subsequent adds any thing to that treaty, except
using the word nation-instead of Indians. And as to that
article in the treaty of Holston, and repeated in the treaty.of
Tellico, Which guaranties to them their territory, since both
those treaties refer to and confirm the treaty of Hopewell;
on what principle can it be contended that the guarantee can
go farther than to secur.e to them that right over the territory,
which is conceded by the Hopewell treaty; which 'interest is
only that of hunting grounds. The general policy of theVOL. .- D"

-

SUPREME COURT.
[The Cherokee Nation vs. The State of Georgia.)

United States, which always looked to these Indian lands as a
certain future acquisition, not less than the express words of
the.treaty of Hopewell, must so decide the question.
If they were not regarded as one of the family of nations
at the time of that treaty, even though at that time first subdued and stripped of the attributes of a state, it is clear that,
to be regarded now as a state, they must 'have resumed their
rank among nations at some subsequent period. But at what
subsequent period? Certainly by no decisive act until they
organized themselves recently into a government; and I have
before remarked that, until expressly recognized bylte executive under that form of government, we cannot recognize any
change in their form of existence. Others bave a right to be
coniulted on the admission of 'few states into the national
family. When this country was first appropriated or conquered by the crown of Great Britain, they certainly were
not known as members of the community of nations; and if
they had been, Great Britain from that time blotted them
from among the race of sovereigns. From that time, Great
Britain considered them as her subjects whenever she chose
to claim their allegiance; and their country as hers, both in soil
and sovereignty. All the forbearance exercised towards them
was considered as voluntary; and as- their trade was more
valuable to her than their territory, for that reason, and notfrom
any supposed want of right to extend her laws over them, ilid
she abstain from doing so.
And, thirdly, by what attributes is the Cherokee nation
identified with other states?
The right of sovereignty was expressly assumed by Great
Britain over their Zountry at the first taking possession of it;
and has never since been recognized as in them, otherwise
-than as dependent tipon the will of a superior.
The right of legislation is in terms conceded to congress by
the treaty of Hopewell, whenever they choose to exercise it.
And the right of soil'is held by the feeble tenure of hunting
grounds, and acknowledged on all hands subject to a restriction to sell to no one but the United States, and for no, use but
that vf Georgia.
They have iq Europe sovereign and demi-sovereiga states
and states of doubtful. sovereignty. But this state, if it be

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[The Cherokee Nation vs. The State of Georgia.]

a state, is still a grade below them all: for not to be able to
alienate without permission of the remainder-man br lord,
places them in a state of feudal dependence.
However, I will enlarge no more upon this point; .because
I believe, in one view and in one only, if at all, they are or
may be deemed a state, thongh not a sovereign state, at least
while they occupy a country within our limits. Their condition is something like that of the Israelites, when inhabiting
the deserts. Though without land that they can call theirs in
the sense of property, their right of personal self government
has never been taken from them; and such a form of government may exist though the land occupied be in fact that of
another. The right to expel them may exist in that other,
but the alternative of departing and retaining the right of self
government may exist in them. And such they certainly do
possess; it has never been questioned, nor any attempt made
at subjugating them as a people, or restraining their personal
liberty except as to their land and trade.
But in no sense can they be-deemed a foreign state, under
the judiciary article.
It does seem unnecessary on this point to do more than put
the question, Whether the makers of the constitution could
have intended to designate- them,.when - .using the epithets
State, and foreign state, are used in
cc foreign"h and "state."
contradistinction to each other. We had then just emerged
ourselves from a situation having much stronger claims than
the Indiansfor adraission into the family of nations; and yet we
were not admitted until we had declared ourselves no longer
provinces but states, and shown some earnestness and capa,
city in asserting our claim to be enfranchised. Can it then be
supposed, that when using those terms we meant to include any
others than those who were admitted into the community of
nations, of whom most notoriously the Indians were no -part?
The argument is that they were states; and if not states of
the union, must be foreign states. But I think it very clear
that the constitution neither speaks of them as states or foreign
states, but as just, what they were, Indian tribes; an anomaly
unknown to the books that treat of states, and which the law
of nations would regard as nothing more than wandering
hordes, held together only by ties of blood and habit, and

SUPREME COURT.
[IThe Cherokee Nation vs. The-State of Georgia.]

having neither laws or government, beyond what is required
in a savage state, The' distinction is' clearly made in that
section which vests in congress power to regulate commerce
between the United States with foreign nations and the Indian
tribes.
The language nust be applied in one of three senses; either
in that of the laiv. of nations, or of the vernacular use, or that
of th6 constitution. In the first, although it means any state
not subject to our laws, y~t it must be a state and not a hunter
horde: in the ternacular, it-would not be applied to a people
within our limits and at our very doors: and in the constitu" tion the two epithets are used in direct contradistinction. The
latter words were unnecessary, if the first included the Indian
tribed. There is no ambiguity, though taken literally; and if
there were, facts-and circumstances altogether remove-it.
But had I been sitting alone in this cause, I should have
waived the consideration of personal description alt6gether;
and put my rejection 6f this motion upon the nature of the
claim set -up, exclusively.
I cannot entertain a doubt that it is one of a political character altogether, and wholly unfit for the cognizance of a jujdicial tribunal. There is no possible view of the subject, that
I can perceive, in which a court of justice can take jurisdiction
of the questions made in the bill. The substance of its allegations may be thus set out.
That the complainants have been from time immemorial
lords of the soil they occupy. That the limits by which they
hold it have been solemnly designated-and secured to them by
treaty and'by laws of the United States. . That within those
limits they have rightfully exercised unlimited jurisdiction,
passing their own laws and administe ingjustice in thbir own
.way. That in violation 'of their just rights so secbrdd to
them, the state of Georgia has passed laws authorizing and
requiring the executive and judicial powers of the state to.
enter their territory and put down their public fubctionaries.
That in pursuance-of those lawr the tunctionaries of Georgia
have entered their territory, with an armed force, and putdown
ll powers legislative, executive and judicial, exercised uaider
the government of the Inuians
What does this series of allegations exhibit but a state

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[The Cherokee Nation vs. The State of Georgta.]

of war, and the fact of invasion? They allege themselves to
be a sovereign independent state, and set out that another
sovereign itate has, by its laws, its functionaries, and its
armed force, invaded their state and put down their authority. This is war in fact; though not being declared
with the usual solemnities, it may perhaps be called war
in disguise. And the contest is distinctly a contest for,
empire. It is not a case of meum and tuum in the judicial
but in the political sense. Not an appeal to laws but to force.
A case in which a sovereign undertakes to assert his right upon his sovereign responsibility; to .right himself, and not to
appeal to any arbiter but -the sword, fQr, the justice of his
cause. -If the state of Maine were to extend its laws over the
province of New Brunswick, and send its magistrates to carry
them into effect, it would bo.a parallel case. In the Nabob of
Arcot's case (4 Bro. Cha. Ca. and 1 'and 2 Vesey, Jun.), a case
of apolitical character not one half so strongly marked as
this; the courts of Great Britain refused to take jurisdiction,
because it' had its origin in treaties entered into between sovereign states: a case in which the appeal is to the sword and to'
Almighty justice, and not to- courts of law or equity. In the
exercise of sovereign right, the sovereign is sole arbiter of-his
own justice. The penalty of wrong is war -andsubjugation.
But there is still another ground in this case, which alone
would have prevented me from assuming jurisdictioni and that
is the utter impossibility of doing justice, at least even handed
justice, between the parties. As to restoring the complainant
to the exercise ofjurisdiction, it will be seen at once that that
is nq case for the action of a court and as to- quieting him in
possession of the soil, what is the case on which the complainant would have this court to act? Either the Cherokee nation
are a foreign state, or they are not. If they are not, then they
cannot oome here; and if they are, then how can we extend
our jurisdiction into their country?'
We are told that we can act upon the public functionaries
in the state of Georgia, without the limits of the nation.
But suppose that Georgia should file a cross-bill, as she cer-tainly may, if we can entertain jurisdiction in this case; and
should'in her bill claim to be put in possession of the whole
Indian country; and we should decide in her favour;how is

SUPREME COURT.
[The Cherokee Ntion vs. The State of Georgia.]

that decree to .be carried into. effect? Say.as .to soil; as to
jurisdiction it is not even to be considered. From the complainant's own showing we coula not do justice between
the parties. Nor must I be considered as admiting that this
court could even upon the other alternative exercise a jurisdiction over the person, respecting lands under the jurisdiction of a foreign nation. I know of no such instance. In
Penn vs. Lord Baltimore, the persons were in England and
the land within the king's dominions though in America.
There is still another view in which this cause of action may
be considered in regard to its political nature. The United
States finding themselves involved in conflicting treaties, or
at least in two- treaties respecting the same property, 'under
which two parties assert conflicting claims; one of the parties,
puftting itself upon its sovereign right, passes laws'which in
effect declare the laws and treaties under which the other
party claixms, null and void. It proceeds to curry into effect
those laws by means of physical force; and the other party
appeals to the executive department for protection. Being
disappointed there, the party appeals fo this court, indirectly
to compel the executive to pursue a course of policy, which
his sense of duty or ideas of the law may indicate should not
be pursued. That is, to declare war against a state, or to use
the public force to repel the force and resist the laws of a
state, when his judgment tells him the evils to grow out of
such a course may be incalculable.
What these people may have a right to claim of the executive power is one thing:whether we are to be the instruments
to compel another branch of the government to make good
the stipulations of treaties, is a very different question. Courts
of justice are properly excluded from all considerations of
policy, and therefore arevery unfit instruments to control the
action of that branrh of government; which .may often be
compelled by the highest corsiderations or public policy to
withhold even the exercise of a positive duty.
There is then a great deal of good selee in the rule laid
down in the Nabob of Arcot's case, to Wit, that as between
sovereigns, breaches of trcaty were not breaches of contract
cognizable in a court of justice; indepetident of the general
principle that for their political acts states were not amenable
to tribunals of justice.

JANUARY TERM 1831.
ETh Cherokee Natidn vs. The State of Georgia.]

There is yet.another view of this subject, which forbids
our taking jurisdi6tion. There is a law of tho United States,
which'purports to make every trespass set out in the bill to be
an offence cognizable in the courts of the United States. I
mean the act of 1802, which makes it penal to violate the In.
dian territory.
The infraction of this law is in effect the burden of complaint.
What then in fact is this bill, but a bill to obtain an injunction against the commission of crimes? If their territory has
been trespassed upon against the provisions of that. act, no
law of Georgia could repeal that act or justify the violationi
of its provisions. And the remedy lies in another court and
form of action, or another branch of jurisprudence.
I cannot take leave of the case without one remark upon
the leading argument, on which the exercise of jurisdiction
here over cases occurring in the Indian country has been
claimed for the complainant -Which was, that-the United
States in fact exercised jurisdiction over it by means of this
and other acts, to punish offences committed there.
But this argument cannot bear the test of principle. For
the jurisdiction of a country may be exercised over her citizens wherever they are, in right of their allegiance; as it has
been in the instance of punishing offences cmonimitted against
the Indians. And, also, both under the constitution and the
treaty of Hopewell, the 'power of congress extends to regulating their trade, necessarily within their limits. But this
cannot sanction the exercise-of jurisdiction beyond the policy
of the acts themselves; which are altogether penal in their
provisions.
I vote for rejecting the motion.
Mr Justice BALDwIN-As jurisdiction is the first question
which must arise in every cause, I have confined my examin.'tiori of this, entirely to that point, and that branch of i6
which relates to the capacity of the plaintiffs to ask the interposition ,of this court. I concur in the opinion of the court
in dismissing the bill, but not for the reasons assigned.
In my opinion there is no plaintiff fn this suit; and this
opinion precludes any examination into the merits of the bill,
or the weight of any minor objections. ly judgment stops

SUPREME COURT.
[The Cherokee Nation vs. The State of Georgia.]

me at the threshold, and forbids me to examine into the acts
complained of.
As the reasons for the judgment of the court seem to me
nore important than the judgment itself, in its effects on the
peace of the country and the condition of the complainants, and as I stand alone on one question of vital concern to
both; I must give my reasons in full. The opinion of this
court is of high authority in itself; and the judge who delivers
ithas a support as strong in moral influence over public opinion, as any human tribunal can -impart. Thejudge, who stands
alone in decided dissent on matters of the infinite magnitude
which this case presents, must sink under the continued and
unequal struggle; unless he can fix himself by a firm hold on
the constitution and lawg of the country. He must be presumed
to be in the wrong, until he-proves himself to be in the right.
Not shrinking even from this fearful issue, I proceed to consider the only question which I shall ever, examine in relation to the rights of Indians to sue in the federal courts, until
convinced of my error in my present convictions.
My view of the plaintiffs being a sovereign independent
nation or foreign state, within the meaning of the constitution, applies to all the tribes with whom the United States
have held treaties: for if one is a foreign nation or state, all
others in like condition must be so in their aggregate capacity; and each of their subjects or citizens, aliens, capable
of suing in the circuit courts. This case then -is the case of
the countless tribes, who occupy-tracts of our vast domain;
who, in their collective and individual characters, as states or
aliens, will rush tu the federal courts in endless controversies,
growing out of the laws of the states or of congress.
In the spirit of the maxim obsta principiis,I shall first proceed to the consideration of the proceedings of the old confress, from the commencement of the revolution up to the
adoption of the constitution; so as to ascertain whether the
Indians were considered and treated with as tribes of savages,
or independent nations, foreign states on an equality with
any other foreign state or nation; and whether Indian affairs
werp viewed as those of foreign nations, and in connection
wih this view, refer to the acts of the federal government on
the same subject.

JANUARY TERM 1831.
"[TheCherokee Nation vs. The State of GeQrgia.]

In 1781 (1 Laws U. S. 586

&c.) a department for forcign affairs was established, to which was entrusted all correspondence and communication-with the ministers or othel
officers of foreign powers, to be carried on through that office
also with the governors and presidents of the several states,
and to receive the applications of all foreigners, letters
of sovereign powers, plans of treaties, conventions, &c. and
other acts of congress relative to the department of foreign
affairs; and all communications as well to as from the United
States in congress assembled were to be made through the
secretary, and all papers on the subject of foreign affairs to be
addressed to him. The same department was established under the present constitution in 1789, and with the same exclusive control over all the foreign concerns of this government with foreign states or princes.
2 Laws U. S. 6,
7. In July 1775, congress established a department 'of Indian affairs, to be conducted under the superintendence of
commissioners. 1 Laws U. S. 597. By the ordinance of
August 1786, for the regulation of Indian affairs, they Were
pla'ced under the control of the war department, 1 Laws
U. S 614, continued there by the act of August 1789 (2
Laws U. S. 32, 33), under whose direction they have ever
since remained. It is clear then, that neither the old or new
government did ever consider Indian affairs, the regulation of
our intercourse or treaties -yith them, as forming any part of
our foreign affairs or concerns with foreign nations, states, or
princes.
I will next inquire how the Indians were considere.d;
whether as independent nations or tribes, with whom our intercourse must be regulated by the law of circumstances. In
this examination it will be found that different words have
been applied to them in treaties and resolutions of congress;
nations, tribes, hordes, savages, chiefs, sachems and warriors
of the Cherokees for instance, or the Cherokee nation. I
shall not stop to inquire into the effect which a name or title
can give to a resolve of congress, a treaty or convention, with
the Indians, but into the substance of the thing done, and the
subject matter acted on: believing it requires no reasoning to
prove that the omission of. the wordsprince, slate, sovereignty or nation, cannot divest a contracting party of these-naVOL. V.-E

SUPREME COURT.
[The Cherokee Nation vs. The State of Georgia.]

tional attributes, which are inherent in sovereign power pre
and self existing, or, confer them by their use, where all the
substantial requisites of sovereignty are wanting.
The proceedings of the old congress will be found in 1,
Laws U. S. 597, commencing 1st. June 1775, and ending
1st September 1788i of which- some extracts will be
given. 30th June 1715, "Resoled, that the committee for
Indian 'affairs do prepare proper 'talks to the several tribes of
Indians. As the Indians depend on the colonists for arms;
ammunition and clothing, which are become necessary for
their subsistence." " -That the con'niissioners have power to treat with the indiansn," " to 'take to their assistance gentlehien of influence among the Indians."
"To
preserve the confidence and friendship of "the Indians, and
prevent their suffering for want of the necessaries of, life,
,40,000 sterling of Indian goods be imported."
"No
person shall-be permitted to trade with the Indians without
a licence;" "traders shall sell their goods at reasonable
prices; allow them to the Indians for their skins;.and take no
advantage of their distress, and intemperanee;" ". the tradeto be only at posts designated by the commissioners." Specimens of the kind of intercourse between the congress and
deputations of Ididians may be seen in pages 602 and 603.
They need no incorporation into a judicial opinion.
In 1782, a committee of congress report, that all the lands
belonging to the six nations of Indians have been in due
form put under the crown as appendant to the government
of New York, so far as respects jurisdiction only; that
that colony has borne the burthen of protecting and supporting the six'nations of Indians and their tributaries for one
hundred years, as the dependents and allies of that government; that the crown of England has always considered' and
treated the country of the six nations as one appendant to the
government of New Yfork;. that they have been so recognized and admitted by their public acts by Massachusetts, Connecticut, Pennsylvania, Maryland and Virginia: that by ac.cepting this cession, the jurisdiction of the whole western territory, belonging to the six nations and their tributaries, will be vested in the United States, greatly to the advantage of the union [p. 606]. The cession alluded to is the

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[The Cherokee Nation vs.The State of Georgia.]

one from New York, March 1st, 1781, of the soil and jurisdiction of all the- land in their charter, west of the present
boundary of Pennsylvania (I Laws U. S. 471), which was
executed in congress and accepted.
This makes it necessary to break ifi
on the historical trace
of our Indian affairs, and follow up this subject to the adoption of the constitution. The cession from Virginia in 1784
was of soil and jurisdiction. So from Massachusetts in 1785,
from Connecticut in 1800, from South Carolina in 1787,
from Georgia in 1802. North Carolina made a partial cession of land, but a full one of her sovereignty and jurisdiction of all without her present liiints in 1789. 2 Laws United
States 85.

Some states niade reservations of lands to a small amount,
but, by the terms of the cession, new states were to be formed
within the ceded boundaries, to be admitted into the union
on an equal footing with the original states; of course, not
shorn of their powers of sovereignty and jurisdiction within
the boundaries assigned by congress to the new states. In
this spirit congress passed the celebrated ordinance of .July
1787, by which they assumed the government of the north
western territory, paying no regard to Indian jurisdiction,
sovereignty, or their political rights, except providing for their
protection ; authorizing the adoption of laws "which, for
the prevention of crimes and injuries, shall have force in all
parts of the district; and for the execution of process civil and
criminal, the governor has powe- to make proper division
thereof." 1 Laws United States, 477. By the fourth article
the ;said territory, and the states which may be formefd
therein, shall for ever remain a part of this confederacy of the
United States; subject to the articles of confederation, alterations constitutionally made, the acts and ordinances of congress.
This shows the clear meaning and understanding of all the
ceding states, and of congress, inaccepting the cession of their
western lands up to the time of the adoption of the constitution. The application of these acts to the provisions of the
constitution will be considered hereafter. - A few more references to the proceedings of the old congress in relation to the
Indian nations will close this'view of the case.

SUPREME COURT.
[7he Cherokee Nation vs. The State of Georgia.]

In 1782, a committee, to whom was referred a letter from
the secretary at war, reported "that they have had a conference with the tivo deputies from the Catawba nation of Indians; that their mission respects certain tracts of land reserved for their use in the state of South Carolina,.which they
wish may be so secured to their tribe, as not to be intruded
into b6y force, nor alienated even with their own consent:whereuponr resolved, that it be recommended to the legislature of South Carolina to take such measures for the satisfaction and security of the said tribe, as the said legislature shall
in their wisdom think fit." I Laws United States, 667.
After this, the Catawbas cannot well be considered an independent nation or foreign state. In September 1783, shortly
after the preliminary treaty of peace, congress, exercising the
powers of acknowledged independence and sovereignty, issued a proclamation beginning-in these words: "whereas, by
the ninth of the articles of confederation, it is, among other
things declared, that the United States, ifl congress assembled,
have the sole and. exclusive right and power of regulating the
trade, and managing all affairs with the Indians not members
of any of tlie states, provided that the legislative right of every
state, within its own limits, be not infringed orviolated,"
prohibitirig settlements on lands inhabited or claimed by Indians, without the limits or jurisdiction of any particular state,
and from purchasing or receiving gifts of land, without the
express authority and directions of the United States in
congress assembled.
Conventions were to be held with
the Indians in the northern and middle departments for the
purpose of receiving them into the favour and protection of
the United States, and of establishing boundary lines of propert , for separating and dividing the settlements of the
citizens from the Indian villages and hunting grounds, &c.
"Resolved that the preceding measures of congress, relative to Indian affairs, shall not be construed to affect the
territorial claims of any of the states, or their legislative
rights within their respective limits. Resolved, that it will
be wise and necessary to erect a dis'trict of the western
territory into a distinct governenit, and that a committee
be appointed to prepare a plan for a temporary government
until the inhabitants shall forM a "permanent constitution

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[The Cherokee Nation vs. The State of Geora.]

for -themselves, and as citizens of a free, sovereign, and
independent state, be admitted to a representation, in the
union." In 1786, a general ordinance was passed for the
regulation of Indian affairs under the authority of the ninth
articld of the confederation, which throws much light on our
relations with them. P. 614. It closes with a direction, that
in all cases where transactions with any nation or tribe of Indians shall become necessary for the purposes of the ordinance.
which cannot be done without interfering with the legislative
rights of a state, the superintendent within whose district the
same shall happen, shall act in conjunction with the authority
of such state.
- After accepting the cessions of the soil and jurisdiction of
the western territory, and resolving to form a temporary
government, and create new, free, sovereign, and independent.
states, congress resolved, in March 1785, to hold a treaty with.
the western Indians. They gave instructions to the commissioners in strict conformity with their preceding resolutions,
both -of which were wholly incompatible with the national or
sovereign character of the Indians with whom they were about
to treat They will be formed in pages 611, &c. and need
not be particularized.
I now proceed to the instructions which.preceded the treaty
of Hopewell with the complainants, the treaty, and the consequent proceedings of congress. On the 15th March 1785, commissioners were appointed to- treat with the Cherokees and
other Indians, southward of them, within the limits of the
United States, or who have been at war with them, for the
purpose of making peace with them, and of receiving. them
into the favour and protection of the United States, &c.
They were instructed to demand that all pri ners, negroes
and other property taken -during the war be given up; to inform the Indians of the great occurrenes, of the last war; of
the extent of country relinquished by the late treaty of peace
with Great Britain; to give notice to the governors of Virginia, North and South-Carolina and Georgia. that they may
attend if they think proper: and were authorized to expend
four thousand dollars in making presents to the Indians; a
matter well urlderstood in making Indian treaties, but unknown at least in our treaties with foreign nations, princes

SUPREME COURT.
[The Cherokee Nation vs. Th6 State of Georgia.]

or states, unless on the Barbary coast. A treaty was- accordingly made in November following, between the commissioners plenipotentiaries of the United States of the one
part, and the head men and warriors of all thd Cherokees of
the other. The word nation is not used in the preamble or
any part of the treaty, so that we are left to infer the capacity
in which the Cherokees contracted, whether as an independent nation or foreign state or 4 tribe of Indians, from the
terms of the treaty, its stipulations and conditions. "The
Indians for themselves and their respective tribes and towns
do acknowledge all the Cherokees t&-be under the protection
Article Sd. 1 Laws U. S. 322.
of the United States."
"The, boundary allotted to the Cherokees for their hunting
grounds between the said Indians and the citizens of the
United States, within the limits of th6 United States, is and
shall be the following," viz. (as defined in Article 4th). "For
the benefit and comfort of the Indians, and for the prevention of
injuries and aggressions on the part of the citizens or Indians,
the United States in congress assembled shall have the sole
and exclusive right of regulating the' trade with the Indiais, and managing all their affairs in such manner as they
shall-think proper. Article 9. "That the Indians may have
full confidencein the justice of-the United States respecting
their interests, thdy shall have the right to send a deputy of
Article
their choice whenever-they think fit to congress."
12th.
This treaty is in the beginning called "c Article:" the
word "treaty" is only to be found in the concluding line,
where it is called "this definitive treaty." But artiole or
treaty, its nature does not depend upon the name given it.
It is not negotiated between ministers on both sides repre,senting their nations; 'the stipulations are wholly inconsistent
with sovereignty; the Indians acknowledge their dependent
character;, hold -the lands they occupy as an allotment of
hunting grounds; give to congress the exclusive right of regulatinig their trade and managing all their affairs as they may
think proper. So it was understood hy congress as declared
by them in their proclamation of 1st September 1788 (1
Laws U S. 619), and so understood at the adoption of the
constitution.

JANUARY TERM 1831.
EThe Cherokee Nation Vs.The State of Georgia.]

The 'meaning of the- words "deputy ' to congress" in
the twelfth article may be as a person fiaving a right to sit
in that body; as at that time it was composed of delegates or
deputies -from the states, not as at 'present, representatives of
the people of the states; or it may be as an agent or minister.
But if the former was the meaning of the parties, it is conclusive to show that he was not and could not be the-deputy of
a foreign state ivholly -separated from the union. If he sat ih
congress as a deputyfrom any state, it must be one having a
political connection with, and within the jurisdiction of the
confederacy; if as a diplomatic agent, he could not represent an
independent or sovereign nation, for all such have an unquestioned right to send such agents when and where theyplease.
The securing the right-by an express stipulation of the treaty;
the declared objects in conferring the right especially when
connected with the ninth article; show beyond a doubt it was
not to represent a foreign state or nation or one to whom the
least vestige of independence or sovereignty as to the United
States appertained. There can, be no dependence so antinational, or sa utterly subversive of national existence as
transferring to a foreign government the regulation of its
trade, and the management of all their affairs at their pleasure.
The nation or state, tribe or village, head men or warriors
of the Cherokees, call them by what name we please, call the
articles they have signed a definitive treaty or an indenture of
servitude; they are not by its force or virtue- a foreign state
capable of calling into legitimate action the judicial power of
this union, by the exercise of the original jurisdiction of this
court against a sovereign state, a component part of this nation.
Unless the constitution has imparted to the Cherokeei a national character never recognized- under the confedeiation;
and which if they ever enjoyed was surrendered by the treaty
of Hopewell; they cannot be deemed in this court plaintiffs irk
such a case as this.
In considering the bearing of the constitution on their
rights, it must be borne in mind, that a majority of the states
represented in the convention had ceded to the United-States
the soil and jurisdiction of their western lands, or, claimed it
to be remaining in themselves; that congress asserted as to the
ceded, and the states as to the unceded territory, their right
to the soil absolutely and the dominion in full sovereignty,

SUPREME -COURT.
[The Cherokee Nation vs. The State of Georgia.]

within their respective limits, subject only to Indian occupancy, not as foreign states or nations, but as dependent on
and appendant to the state governments: that before the convention acted, congress had erected a government in the north
western territory containing numerous and powerful nations
or tribes of Indians, whose jurisdiction was continued and
whose sovereignty was overturned, if it ever existed, except
by permission of the states or congress, by ordaining that the
territorial laws should extend over the whole district; and
directing divisions for the execution of civil and. criminal
process in every part; that ihe Cherokees were then dependants, having given up all'their affairs to the regulation and
management of congress, and that all the regulations of congress,
over Indian affairs were then in force over an immense territory,
under a solemn pledge to the inhabitants,'that whenever their
population and clircumstances would admit they should form constitutions and become free, sovereign and independent states
on equal footing with the old component members of the confederation; that by the existing regulations and treaties, the
Indian tenure to their lands was their allotment as hunting
grounds without the power vf. alierlation, that the right of
occupancy was not individual, that the Indians were forbidden
all trade or intercourse with any person not licensed or at a
post not designated by regulation, that Indian affairs formed
no part of the foreign concerns of the government, and that
though they were permitted to regulate their internal affairs
in their own way, it was not by any inherent right acknowledged by congress or reserved by treaty, but because congress
did not think proper to exercise the sole and exclusive
right, declared and'assertqd in all their regulations from 1775
to 1788, in the articles of confederation, in the ordinance of
1787 and the proclamation -of 1788; which the plaintiffs solemnly recognized and expressly granted by the treaty of
Hopewell in 1785, as conferred on congress to be exercised as
they should think proper.
To correctly understand the constitution, then, we must
read it with reference to this well known existing state of our
relations with the Indians; the United States asserting the right
of soil, sovereignty, and jurisdiction, in full dominion; the
Ildians oecupant, of allotted hunting grounds.
We can thus expound the constitution without a reference

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[The Cherokee Nation vs. The State of Georgia.]

to the definitions of a state or nation by any foreign writer,
hypothetical reasoning, or the dissertations of the Federalist.
This would be tG substitute individual authority in place of the
declared will of the sovereign power of the union, in a written fundamental law. Whether it is the emanation from the
people or the states, is a moot question, having no bearing on
the supremacy of that supreme law which from a proper
source has rightfully been imposed on us by sovereigr power.
Where its terms are plain, I should, as a dissefiting judge,
deem it judicial sacrilege to put my hands on any of its provisions, and arrange or construe them according to any fancied
use, object, purpose, or motive, which,.by an ingenious
train of reasoning, I might bring my mind to believe was
the reason for its adoption by the sovereign power, from
whose hands it comes to me as the rule and guide to my faith,
my reason, and judicial oath. In taking out, putting in, or
varying the plain meaning of a word or expression, to meet
the results of my poor judgment, as to the meaning and intention of the great charter, which alone imparts to me my power
to act as a judge of its supreme injunctions, I should feel myself acting upon it by judicial amendments, and not as one of
its executors. I will not add unto these things; I will not
take away from the words of this book of prophecy; I will
not impair the force or obligation of its enactments, plain and
unqualified in its terms, by resorting to the authority of names;
the decisions of foreign courts ; or a reference to books or
writers, The plain ordinances are a safe -guide to my judgment. When they admit of doubt, I will connect the words
with the practice, usages, and settled principles of this government, as administered by its fathers before the adoption of the
constitution: and refer to the received opinion and fixed understanding of the high parties who adopted it; the usage and
practice of the new government acting under its authority;
and the solemn decisions of this court, acting under its high
powers and responsibility: nothing fearing that-in so doing, I
can discover some sound and safe maxims of American policy
and jurisprudence, which will always afford me light enough
to decide on the constitutional powers of the federal and state
governments, and all tribunals acting under their authority.
They will at least enable me to judge of the true meaningand
VOL. V.-F

SUPREME COURT.
[The Cherokee Nation vs. The State of Georgia.]

spirit of plain words, put into the forms of constitutional provisions, which this court in the great case of Sturges and
Crowninshield say, "is to be collected: chiefly from its words.
It would be dangerous in the extreme to infer from extrinsic
circumstances that a case for which the words of an instrument expressly provide, shall be exempted from its operation.
Where words conflict with each other, where the different
clauses of an instrument bear upon each other, and would
be incensistent unless the natural and common import of
words be varied, construction becomes necessary, and a departure from the obvious meaning of words is justifiable."
But the absurdity and injustice of applying the provision to
the case must be so monstrous, that all mankind would without
hesitatibn unite in rejecting the application. 4 Wheat. 202, 3.
In another great case, Cohens vs. Virginia, this court say,
"the jurisdiction of this court then, being extended by the
letter of the constitution to'all cases arising under it or under
the laws of the United States, it follows that those, who would
withdraw any"case of this description from that jurisdiction,
must sustain the exemption they claim on the spirit and true
meaning of the constitution, which spirit and true meaning
must be so apparent as to overrule the words which its framers
have employed,"

6 Wheat. 379, 80.

The principle of these cases is my guide in this. Sitting
here, I shall always bow to such authority; and require no
admonition to he influenced by no other, in a case where I am
called on to take a part in the exercise of the judicial power
over a sovereign state.
Guided -by these principles, I come to consider the third
clause of the second section of the first article of the constitution; which provides for the apportionment of representatives, and direct taxes "among the several states which may
be included within this union, according to their respective
numbers, excluding Indians not taxed." This clause embraces not only the old but the new states to be formed out of
the territory of the United States, pursuant'to the resdlutiins
and ordinances of the old congress, and the conditions of the
cession from the states, or which might arise by the diyision
of the. old. If the clause excluding Indians not,taxed had not
been inserted, or should be stricken out, the whole free Indiai

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[The Cherokee Nation vs. The State of Georgia.]

population of all the states would be included in the federal
numbers, coextensively with the boundaries of all the states,
included in this union. The insertion of this clause conveys
a clear definite declaration tt t there were no independer.tsovereign nations or states, foreign or domestic, within their boundaries, which should exclude them from the federal enumeration, or any bodies or communities within the states, excluded
from the action of the federal constitution unless by the use of
express words of exclusion.
The delegates who represented the states in the convention
well knew the existing relations between the United States
and the Indians, and put the constitution in a shape for adoption calculated to meet them; and the words used in this
clause exclude the existence of the plaintiffs as a4sovereign or
foreign state or nation, within the meaning of this section; too
plainly to require illustration or argument.
The third clause of the eighth article shows most distinctly
the .sense of the convention in authorising congress to regulate
commerce with the Indian tribes. The character of the Indian communities had been settled by many years of. uniform
usage under the old government: characterized by the name
of nations, towns, villages, tribes, head men and warriors, as
the writers of resolutions or treaties might fancy; governed
by no settled rule, and applying the word nation tb the Catawvhas as well as the Cherokees. The fraumers of the constitution
have thought proper to define their meaning to be, that they
were not foreign nations nor states of the union, but Indian
tribes; thus declaring the sense in which they should be considered under the constitution, which refers to them as tribes
only, in this clause. I cannot strike these words from the
book; or construe Indian tribes in this part of the constitution
to mean a sovereign state umder the first clause of the second
section of the third article. It would be taking very great
liberty in the exposition of a fundamental law, to bring the
Indians under the action of the legislative power as tribes,
and of the judicial, as foreign states. The power conferred to regulate commerce with the Indian tribes, is the
same given to the old congress by the ninth article of the old
confederation, "to- regulate trade with the Indians." The
raising the word "trade" to the dignity of commerce, regu-

SUPREME COURT.
[Tho Cherokee Nation vs. The State of Georgia.]

lating it with Indians or Indian tribes,,is only a change of
words. Mere phraseology cannot ,make Indians nations, or
Indian tribes foreign states.
The second clause of the third section of the f6urth article
of the constitution is equally convincing. "The congress shall
have power to dispose of, and make all needful regulations
and rules respecting the territory of the United States." What
that territory was, the rights of soil, jurisdiction, and sovereignty claimed and exercised by the states and the old congress, has been already seen. It extended to the formation
of a government whose laws and process were in force within
its whole extent, without a saving of Indian jurisdiction. It
is the same power which was delegated to the old congress,
and, according to the judicial interpretation given by this
court in Gibbons vs. Ogden, 9 Wheaton, 209, the word " to
regulate" implied in its nature full power over the thing to be
regulated; it excludes, necessarily,.the action of all others that
would perform the same operation on the same thing. Apiplying this construction to commerce and territory, leaves the
jurisdiction and sovereignty of the Indian tribes wholly out of
the question. The power given in this clause is of, the most
plenary kind. Rules and regulations respecting the territory
pf the United States; they necessarily include complete jurisdiction. It was necessary to confer it without limitation, to
enable'the new government to redeem the pledge given by
the old in relation to the formation- and powers of the new
states. The saving of "the claims" of" any particular state"
is almost a copy of a similar provision, part of the ninth article
of the old confederation; thus delivering over to the new con.
gress the power to regulate commerce with the Indian tribes,
and regulate the territory they occupied, as the'old had done
from the beginning of the revolution.
The only remaining clause of the'constitution to be considered is the sedond clause in the sixth article. "cAll treaties
made, or to be made, shall be the supreme law of the land."
In Chirac vs. Chirac, this court declared that it was unnecessary to inquire into the effect of the treaty with Franca irr
1778 under the old- confederation, becausQ the confederation
had yielded to our present constitution, and this treaty had
been the supreme law of the land. ;? Wheaton, 271. 1 con-

JANUARY TERM.1831.
[The Cherokee Nation vs. The State of Georgia.]

sider the same rule as applicable to [ndian treaties, whether
considered as national compacts between sovereign powers, or
as articles, agreements,- contracts or stipulations on the part of
this government, binding and pledging the faith of the nation
to the faithful observance of its conditions. They secure to
the Indians the enjoyment of the rights they stipulate to give
or secure, to their full extent, and in. the plenitude of good
faith; but the treaties must be considered as the rules of reciprocal obligations. The Indians must have. their rights; but
must claini them in that capacity in which they received the
grant or guarantee. They contracted by putting themselves
under the protection of the United States, accepted of an allotment of hunting grounds, surrendered and delegated to congress the exclusive regulation of their trade and the management of all their own affairs, taking no assurance of their continued sovereignty, if they had any before, but relying on the
assurance of the United States that they might have full confidence in their justice respecting.their interests; stipulating only
for the right of sending a deputy of their own choice to congress. If, then, the Indians claim admission to this court under the treaty of Hopewell, they cannot be admitted as foreign
states, and can be received in no other capacity.
The legislation of congress, under the constitution in relation to the Indians has been in the same spirit and guided
by the same principles, which prevailed in the old congress
and under the old confederation. In order to give full effect
to the ordinance of 1787, in fhe north west territory, it was
adapted to the present constitution of the United States in 1789,
2 Laws U. S. 33; applied as the rule for its government to
the territory south of the Ohio in 1790, except the sixth article, 2 Laws U. S. 104; to the lVississippi territory in 1798,
3 Laws U. S. 39, 40 and with no exception to Indiana in
1800, 3 Laws U. S. 367; to Michigan in 1805, 3 Laws U.
S. 632; to Illinois in 1809, 4 Laws U. S. 198.
In 1802 congress passed the act regulating trade and inteicourse with the Indian tribes, in which they assert all the
rights exercised over them under the old confederation, and
do not alter in any degree their political relations, 9 Laws
U. S. 460, et seq. In the same year Georgia ceded her lands
west of her present boundary to the United States;. and by the

SUPREME COURT.
[The Cherokee Nation vs. The State of Georgia.,

second article of the convention the United States ceded to
Georgia whatever claim, right or title they may have to the
jurisdiction or soil of any lands south of Tennessee, North or
South Carolina and east of the line of the cession by' Georgia.
So that Georgia now has all the rights attached to her by her
sovereignty within her limits, and which are saved to her by
the second section of the-fourth article of the constitution, and
all the United States could cede either by their power over
the territory'r their treaties with the Cherokees.
The treaty with the Cherokees, made at Holston in 1791,
contains only one article which has a bearing on the political
relatior 3 of the contracting parties. In the second article the
Cherokees stipulate "that the said Cherokee nation will not
hold any treaty with any foreign power, individual state,
or with individt als of any state." I Laws U. S. 326.
This affords an instructive definition ofthe words nation and

treaty. At the treaty of Hopewell the Cherokees, though
subdued and suing for peace, before divesting themselves of
any of the rights or attributes of sovereignty which this government ever recognized them as possessing by the consummation of the treaty, contracted in.the name of the head men
and warriors of all the Cherokees; but at Holston- in .1791, -ill
abandoning their last remnant of political right, contracted as
the Cherokee nation, thus ascending in title ag they descended
in power,. and applying the word treaty to a contract with an
individual: this consideration will divest words of their magic.
'In thus testing the rights of the complainants as to theip
national character by the old confederation, resolutions and
ordinances of the old congress, the provisions of the constitution, treaties held under the authority of both, and the subsequent legislation thereon, I have followed the rule laid down
for my guide by this court, in Foster vs. Elam, 2 Peters, 307,
in doing it "according to- the principles established by the
political department of the government. "If the course of
the nation has been a plain one, its courts would -hesitate to
pronounce it erroneous. However individual judges may
construe them (treaties), it is the province of the court to
eonform its decisions to the will of the legislature, if that will
has bean clearly expressed." That the existence of foreign
states cannot,be known to this court judicially except by some'

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[The Cherokee Nation vs. The State of Georgia.]

act or recognition of the other departments of this government is, I think, fully established in the case of Palmer, 3
Wheaton, 634,5; the Pastora, 4 Wheaton, 63; and the Anna,
6 Wheaton, 193.
I shall resort to the same high authority as the basis of my
opinion on the powers of the state governments. "By the
revolution the duties as well as the powers of government
devolved on the people of [Georgia] New Hampshire
It is
admitted that among the latter were comprehended the transcendent powers of parliament, as well as those of the executive department."
Dartmouth College vs. Woodward, 4
Wheat. 451, 4 Wheat. 192; Green vs. Biddle, 8 Wheat.
98; Ogden vs. Saunders, 12 WheaL 254, &c. 16The same
principle applies though with no greater force to the different states of America; for though they form a confederated
government, yet the several states retain their individual sovereignties, and with respect to their*municipal regulations
are to each other foreign."
Buckner vs. Findley, 2 Peters,
591. The powers of government, which thus devolved on
Georgia by the revolution over her whole territory, are unimpaired by any surrender of her territorial jurisdiction, by
the old confederation or the new constitution, as there was in
both an express saving, as well as by the tenth article of
amendments.
But if any passed to the United States by either, they were
retroceded by the convention of 1802. Het jurisdiction over
the territory in question is as supreme as that of congress
over what the nation has acquired by cession from the states
or treaties with foreign powers, combining the rights of the
state and general government. Within her boundaries there
can be no other nation, community, or sovereign power,
which this department can judicially recognize as a foreign
state, capable of demanding or claiming our interposition, so as
to enable them to exercise a jurisdiction incompatible with a
sovereignty in Georgia, which has been recognized by the
constitution, and every department of this government acting
under its authority. Foreign states cannot be created by judicial construction; Indian sovereignty cannot be roused from its
long slumber, and awakened to action by our fiat. I find no
acknowledgement of it by the legislative or executive power.

SUPREME COURT.
[The Cherokee Nation vs. The State of Georgia.]

Till they have done so, I can stretch forth no arm for their
relief without violating the constitution. I say this with
great deference to those from whom I dissent; but my judgment tells me, I have no power to act, and imperious duty
compels me to stop at the portal, unless I can find some authority in the judgments of this court, to which I may surrender my own.
Indians have rights of occupancy to their lands as sacred as
thd fee-simple, absolute title of the whites; bUt they are only
rights of occupancy, incapable of alienation, or being held by
any other than 'common right without permission from the
government. -8 Wheaton, 592. In Fletcher vs. Peck, this
court decided that the Indian occupancy was not absolutely
repugnant to a seisin in fee in Georgia, that she had good
right to grant land so occupied, that it was within the state,
and could be held by purchasers under a law subject only to
extinguishment of the Indian title. 6 Cranch, 88, 142. 9
Cranch, 11. In the case of Johnson vs. M'Intosh, 8 Wheaton, 543, 571, the nature of the Indian title to land on
this continent, throughout its. whole extent, was most ably
and elaborately considered; leading to concluions satisfactory to every jurist, clearly establishing that from the
time of discovery under the royal government, the colonies, the states, the confederacy and this union, their tenure
was the same occupandy, their rights occupancy and nothing
more; that the ultimate absolute fee, jurisdiction and sovereignty was in the government, subject only to such rights;
that grants vested soil and dominion, and the powers of government, whether the land granted was vacant or occupied
by Indians.
By the treaty of peace the powers of government and the
rights of soil which had previously been in Great Britain,
passed definitively to these states. 8 Wheat. 584. They asserted these rights, and ceded soil and jurisdiction to the
United States. The Indians were considered as tribes of fierce
savages; a people with whom it was, impossible to mix,
and who could not be goVerned as a distinct society.
They are not named or referred to in any part of the opinion
of the court as nations or states, and no where declared to
have any national capacity or attributes of sovereignty in their

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[The Cherokee Nation vs. The State of Greorgia.]

relations to the general or state governments. The prineiples
established in this case have been supposed to apply to the
rights which the nations of Europe claimed to acquire by discovery, as only relative between themselves, and that they
did not assume thereby any rights of soil or jurisdiction over
the territory in the actual occupation of the Indians. But
the language of the court is too explicit .to be misunderstood.
" This principle was, that discovery gave- title to the government by whose subjects or by whose authority it 'was made,
against all other European governments, which title'might
be consummated by possession."
Those relations' which
were to subsist between the discoverer and the natives were
to be regulated by themselves. The rights thus.acquired being
exclusive, no other pawer could interpose betweenothera.
While the different nations-of Europe .respected the rights
of the natives as occupants, they asserted the ultimate dominion to be in themselves; and claimed and exercised as a consequence of this ultimate dominion, a power to grant the soil
while yet in the possession of the natives. These grants have
been understood by all to convey a title to the grantees, sub
ject only to the Indian rights Of occupancy. The history of
America from its discovery to the present day proves, we think,
the universal recognition of these principles.. 8 Wheat. 574.
I feel it my duty to apply them to this.case. They are in
perfect accordance with those on which the governments of the
united and Individual states have acted in all their changes:
they were asserted and maintained by the colonies, before
they assumed independence. While dependent themselves on
the crown, they exercised all the rights of dominion and "overeignty over the territory occupied by the Indians; and this
is the first assertion by them of rights as a foreign state within
the limits of a state. If their jurisdiction within, their boundaries has been- unquestioned until this "controversy; if rights
have been exercised which are directly repugnant to those
now claimed; the judicial power cannot divest the states of
rights of sovereignty, and transfer them to the Indians, by decreeing them to be a nation, or foreign state, pre-existing and
with rightful jurisdiction and sovereignty over the territory
they occupy. This would reverse every, principle on which
our government have acted for fifty-five years; and force, by
VOL. V.-G

SUPREME COURT.
[The Cherokee Nation vs. The State of Georgia.]

mere judicial power, upon the other departments of this governm'ent and the states of this union, the recognition of the
existence of nations and states within the limits 6f both, possessing dominion and jurisdiction paramount to the federal
and state constitutions. It will be a declaration, in my delibprate judgment, that the sovereign power of the people of
the United States and union must hereafter remain incapable of action over territory to which their rights in full
dominion have been asserted with the most rigorous authority, and bow to a jurisdiction, hitherto unknown, unacknowledged by any department of the government; denied
by all through all time; unclaimed till now; and now declared
to have been called into exercise, not by any change in our
constitution, the laws of the union or the states; but pre-existent and paramount over the supreme law of the land.
I disclaim the assumption of a judicial power so awfully responsible. No assurance or certainty of support in public
opinion can induce me to disregard a law so supreme; so
plain to my judgment and reason. Those, who have brought
public opinion to bear on this subject, act under a mere moral
responsibility; under no oath which binds their movements to
the straight and narrow line drawn by the constitution. Politics or philanthropy may impel them to pass it, but when their
objects can be effectuated only by this court, they must not
expect its members to diverge from it, when they cannot conscientiously take the first step without breaking 'all the high
obligations under which they administer the judicial power of
the constitution. The account of my executorship cannot be
settled before the couxt of public opinion, or any human tribunal. None can release the balance which will accrue by
the violation of my solemn conviction of duty.
Mr Justice THoMPsoNr, dissenting. -Entertaining different
views of the questions now before us in this case, and having
arrived at a conclusion different from that of a majority of
the court, and considering the importance of the case and the
constitutional principle involved in it; I shall proeeed, with all
due respect for the opinion of others, to assign the reasons
upon which my own has been formed.
In the opinion pronounced by the court, the merits of the

JANUARY TERM 1831.
['The Cherokee Nation vs. The State of Georgia.]

controversy between the state of Georgia and the Cherokee
Indians have not been taken into consideration. The denial
of the application for an injunction has been placed solely on
the ground of vignt of jurisdiction in this court to grant
the relief prayed for. It became, therefore, unnecessary to
inquire into the merits of the case. But thinking as I do that
the -court has jurisdiction of the case, and may grant relief, at
least in part; it may become necessary for me, in the course of
my opinion, to glance at the merits of the controversy; which I
shall, however, do, very briefly, as it is important so far as
relates to the present application.
Before entering upum the examination of the particular
points which have been made and argued, and for the purpose of guarding against any erroneous conclusions, it is proper
that I should state, that I do not claim for this court, the
exercise of jurisdiction upon any matter properly falling under the denomination of political power. Relief to the full
extent prayed by the bill may be beyond the reach of this
court. Much of the matter therein' contained, by way of
complain , would seem to depend for relief upon the exercise of political power; and as such, appropriately devolving
upon the executive, and not the judicial department of the
government. This court can grafit relief so far only as the
rights of person orpropertvare drawn in question, and have
been infringed.
It would very ill become the judicial station which I hold, to
indulge in any remarks upon the hatrdship of the case, or the
great injustice that would seem to have been done to the complainants, according to the statement in the bill, and which for
the purpose of the present motion I must assume to be true. If
they are entitledto other than judicial relief, it cannot be admitted that in a government like ours, redress is not to be had
in some of its departments; ane, the responsibility for its denial
must rest upon those who have the power to grant it. But
believing as I do, that relief to some extent falls properly
under judicial cognizance; I shall proceed to the examination
of the case under the following heads.
1. Is the Cherokee nation of Indians a competent party
to sue in this court?

SUPREME COURT.
[The Cherokee Nation vs. Tfie State of Georgia.]

2. Is a sufficient case made out in the bill, to warrant this
court in granting any relief?
3. Is an injunction the fit and appropriate relief?
1. By the constitution of the United States it is declared
(Art. 3, §.2), that the judicial power shall extend to all cases
in law and equity, arising. under this constitution, the laws of
the United States, and treaties made or which shall be made
under their .authority; &c. to controversies between two or
more states, &c. and between a state or the citizens thereof;
and foreign states, citizens or subjects.
The controveriy in the present case is alleged to be between
a foreign state, and one of the states of the union; and does
not, therefore, come within the eleventh amendment of the
constitution, which declares that the judicial power of the
United States, shall not be construed to extend to any suit in
law. or equity commenced or prosecuted against one of the
United Statas by citizens of another state, or by itizens or
subjects of any foreign, state. This amendment does not,
therefore, extend to suits prosecuted against one of tie United
States by a foreign state.. The constitution further provides,
that in afl cases where a state shall be a party, the supreme
court shall have original 'jurisdiction. Under these provisions in the constitution, the complainants have filed'their bill
in this court, in the character of a foreign state, against the
state of Georgia; praying an injunction to restrain that state
from committing various alleged violations of the property of
the nation, claimed under the laws of the United States, and
treaties made with the Cherokee nation.
That a state of this union may be sued by a foreign state,
when a proper case exists and is presented, is too plainly and
expressly declared in the constitution to admit of. doubt; and
the first inquiry is, whether the Cherokee nation is a foreign
state within the sense and meaning of the constitution.
The terms state and nation are used in the law of nations,
as well as in common parlance, as importing the same thing;
and imply a body df men, united together, to procure their
mutual safety and advantage by means of their union. Such
a society has its affairs and interests to manage; it deliberates,
and takes resolutions in common, and thus becomes a moral

JANUARY TERM 1831.
EThe Cherokee Nation vs. The State of Georgia.]

person, having an understanding and a will peculiar to itself,
and is susceptible of obligations and laws. Vattel, 1. Nations
being composed of men naturally free and. independent, and
who, before the establishment of civil societies, live together
in the state of nature, nQetions or sovereign states; are to be
considered as so many free persons, living, together in a
state of nature. Vaitel 2, § 4. Every nation that governs
itself, under what form soever, without any dependence
on a foreign power, is a sovereign state. Its rights are
aaturally the .same as those of any other state Such are moral persons who live together in a natural society,, under the
law, of nations. It is sufficient if it be really sovereign and
independent: that is, it must govern itself by' its own authority and laws. We ought, therefore, to reckon in the number
of sovereigns those states that have bound themselves to another more-powerful, although by an unequal alliance. The
'conditions of these unequal alliances may be infinitely varied;
but whatever they are, provided the inferior ally reserves .to
itself the sovereignty or the right to g~vern its own body, it
ought to be considered an indepehdent state. Consequently,
a weak state, that, in order to provide for its safetyi places itself under the protection of. a more powerful one, without
stripping itself of the right. of government, and sovereigntyj
dodts not cease orl this account tobe placed. among the sovereigns Nyho acknowledge no other power. Tributary.and
feudatory states do not thereby. cease to be sovereign and independent states, so long as self gpverfirpent, and sovereig4
and independent authority is left in the administration, of the
state. Vattel, c. 1, pp. 16, 17.
Testing the character and condition of the Cherokee Indians
by these rules, it is not perceived how it is possible to escape
the conclusion, that they form asovereign state. They have always been dealt with as such by the government of the United
States; both before and since the adoption of the present constitution. They have been admitted and treated as a people governed solely and exclusively by their own laws, usages, and
customs within their own territory, claiming and exercising exclusive dorminion over the same; yielding up by treaty from
time to time, portions of. their land, butstill claiming absolute
sovereignty and self government over what remained unsold.

SUPREME COURT.
[The Cherokee Nation vs. The State of Georgia,]

And this has been the light in which they have, until recently,
been considered from the earliest settlement of the aountry by
the white people. And indeed, I do not understand it is denied
by a majority of the court, that the Cherokee Indians form a
sovercign state according to the doctrine of the law of nations;
but that, although a sovereign state, they are not considered
a foreign state within the meaning of the constitution.
Whether the Cherokee Jlndians are to be considered a foreign state or not, is a point on which we cannot expect to
discover much light from the law of nations. We must derive this knowledge chiefly from the-practice of our own government, and the light in which the nation has been viewed
and treated by it.
That numerous tribes of Indians, and among others the Cherokee nation, occupied -many parts of this country long before
the discovery by Europeans, is abundantly established by history; and it is not denied but that the Cherokee nation occupied the territory now claimed by them long before that period. It does not fall within the scope and object of the present inquiry to go into a critical examination of the nature and
extent of the rights growing out of such occupancy, or the justice and humanity with which the Indians have been treated,
or their rights respected.
That they are entitled to such occupancy, so long as they
choose quietly and peaceably to remain upon the land, cannot be questioned. The circumstance of their original occupancy is here referred to, merely for the purpose of showing,
that if these Indian communities were then, as, they certainly
were, nations, they must have been foreign nations, to all the
world; not having any connexion,. or alliance of any description, with any otherpower on earth. And if the Cherokeeswere
then a foreign nation; when or how have they lost that character, and ceased to be a distinct people, and become incorporated with any other community?
They have never been, by conquest, reduced to the situation
of subjects to any conqueror, and thereby lost their separate
national existence, and the rights of self government, and become subject to the laws of the conqueror. When ever wars
have taken place, they have been followed by regular trea'ties of peace, containing stipulations on each side according

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[The Cherokee Nation vs. The State of Georgia.]

to existing circumstances; the Indian nation always preserving its distinct and separate national character. And notwithstanding we do not recognize the right of the Indians to transfer the absolute title of their lands to any other than ourselves; the right of Occupancy is still admitted to remain in
them, accompanied with the right of self governmentaccording
to their own usages and customs; and with the competency to act
in a national capacity, although placed under the protection of
-the whites, and owing a qualified subjection so fer as is requisite for public safety. But the principle is universally admitted, that this occupancy belongs to them as matter of right,
and not by mere indulgence. They cannot be disturbed in
the enjoyment of it, or deprived of it, %vithouttheir free consent; or unless a just and necessary war should sanction their
dispossession.
In this view of their -situation, there is as full and
complete recognition of their sovereignty, as if they were
the absolute owners of the soil. The progress made in civilization by the Cherokee Indians cannot surely be considered as in any meaeure destroying their national or foreign
character, so long as they are permitted to maintain a separate and distinct government; it is their political condition that constitutes their foreign character, and in. that
sense must the term forefgn, be understood as used in the constitution. It can have no relation to local, geographical, or
territorial position. It cannot mean a country beyond sea.
Mexico or Canadi is certainly to be considered a foreign
country, in refetence to the United States. It is the political relation in which one government or country stands to
another, which constitutes it foreign to the other. The
Cherokee territory being within the chartered limits of
Georgia, does, not affect the question. When Georgia is spoken
of as a state, reference is had to its political character, and not
to boundary; and it is not perceived that any absurdity or in..
consistency grows out of the circumstance, that the jurisdiction and territory of the state of Georgia surround or extend
on every side of the Cherokee territory. IIt may be incon,
venient to the state, and very desirable, that the Cherokees
should be removed; but it does not at all affect the political
relation between Georgia and those Indians. Suppose the

SUPREME COURT.
[The Cherokee Nationi vs. The State of Georgia.]

Cherokee territory had been occupied by Spaniards or any
other civilized people, instead of Indians, and they had from
time to time ceded to the United States portions of their lands
precisely in the same manner as the Indians have done, and
in like manner retained and occupied the part now held by
the Cherokees, and'having a regular government established
there: would it not only be considered a separate and distinct
nation or state, but a foreign nation, with reference to the
state of.Georgia or the United States. If we look to lexicographers, as well as approved writers, for the use of the term
foreign, it may be applied with the strictest propriety to the
Cherokee nation.
In a general sense it is applied to any person or thing belonging to another nation or country. We call an alien a foreigner,
because he is not of the country in which we reside. In a political sense we call every country foreign, which is not within
thejurisdiction of the same government. In this sense', Scotland before the union was foreign to England; and Canada
and Mexico foreign to the United States. In the United
States all transatlantic countries are foreign to us. But this is
not the only sense in which it is used.
: It is applied with equal propriety to an adjacent territory, as
to one, more remote. Canada or Mexico is as much foreign
to us as England or Spain. And it may be laid down as a
general rule,.that when used in relatior to countries in a political sense, it refers to the jurisdiction or government of the
country. In a commercial sense, we call all goods coming
from any country not within our own jurisdiction foreign
goods.
In the diplomatic use of the term, we call every minister a
foreign minister who comes from another jurisdiction or government. And 'this is the sense in which it is judicially used
by this. court, even -as between the different states of this
union. In the case of Buckner vs. Finlay, 2 Peters, 590, it
was held that a bill of exchange drawn in one state of the
union, on a person'living in another state, was a foieign bill,
and to be treated as such in he courts of the United States.
The court says, that in applying the definition of a foreign
bill, to the political character of the several states of this
union, in relation to each other, we are all clearly of opinion,

JANUARY TERM 1891.
. LThe Cherokee Nation vs. The State'f Gevrgia.]

that bills drawn in one of these states upon persons living in
another of them, partake of the character of foreign bills,
and ought to be so treated, That for all national purposes
efibraeeal'by -the federal constitution, the states andthe citizens thete6f are one; united under the same sovereign authority, and governed by the same laws. In all other respects,
the states are necessarily foreign to, and independent of each
other; their constitutions and forms of government being,
although republican, altogether different, as are their laws and
institutions. So in the case of Warder vs. Arrell, decided in
the court of appeals of Virginia, 2 Wash. 298. The court,
in speaking of fbreign, contracts, and saying that the laws of
the foreign country where the contract was made must govern,
add; -the same principle applies, though with no greater force,
'to the different states of America:*for though they form a
confederated .government, yet -the several states retain their
individual sovereignties; and, with respect to their municipal
-regulations, are t6 each other foreign.
It is manifestfrom these cases, that a foreign state, judicially
considered, consists in its being under a different jurisdiction
or government, without any reference to its territorial position. -This is the marked distinctiQn, particularly in the case
of Buckner vs. Finlay. So far as these states are subject to
the laws of the union, they are not foreign to each other. But
so far as they are subject to 'their own respective state laws
and government, they are foreign to each other. And if, as
here decided, a separate and distinct jurisdiction or government is the test by which to decide whether a nation be foreign
or not; I am unable to perceive* any sound and substantial
reason why the Cherokee nation should not be so considered.
It is governed by its own laws, usages and customs: it has no
connexion with any other government or jurisdiction, except
by way of treaties entered into with like form and cereinony
as with other foreign nations. And this seems to be the view
taken of them by Mr Justice Johnson in the case of Fletcher
vs. Peck, 6 Cranch, 146; 2 Peters's Condens. Rep. 308.
In speaking of the state and condition of the different Indian
nations, he observes, "that some have totally extinguished
their national fire, and submitted themselves to the laws of
the states; others have by treaty acknowledged that they hold
VOL. V.-H

SUPREME COURT.
[The Cherokee Nation wa.The State of Georgia.)

their national existence at the will of the state, within which
they reside; others retain a limited sovereignty, and the absolute proptietorship of their soil. The latter is the case of the
tribes to the west of Georgia, among Which are the Cherokees.
We legislate upon the conduct of. strangers or citizens within
their limits, but innumerable treaties formed with them acknowledge them to be an independent people: and the uniform practice of acknowledging their right of soil by purchasing from them, and restraining all persons from encroaching upon their territory, makes it unnecessary to insist upon
their rights of soil.'Although there are many'cases in which one of these United
States has been sued by another, I am not aware of any instance in which one of the United States has been sued by a
foreign state, But- no doubt can be entertained-that such an
action might be sustained upon a proper case being presented.
It is expressly provided for in the constitution; and this provision is certainly not to .be rejected as entirely nugatory.
Suppose a state, with the consent of congress, should enter
into an agreement With a foreign power (as might undoubtedly
be done, Constitution, Art. 1, § 10) for a loan of money; would
not an act-ion be sustained in this court tocenforce payment
thereof ? Or suppose the state of Georgia, with the consent
of congress, should purchase the right of the Cherokee Indians to thip territory, and enter into a contract fdr the payment of the purchase money; could there be a doubt that an
action could be sustained upon such a contract? No objection
would certainly be made for want of competency in that nation
to make a valid contract. The numerous treaties entered
into with, the nation would be a conclusive answer to any
such objection; And if an action could be sustained in such,
case, it must be under that provision in the constitutiof
which gives jurisdiction to 'this court in controversies between a state arid a foreign state. Fqr the Cherokee nation is
certainly not one of the United States..
And what possible objection can lie to the right of the complainants to sustain an action? The treaties made with this'na)ion purport to secure to it certain rights. These are not gratuitous obligations assumed on the part of tae United States.
They are obligations founded upon a considerationD paid by the

JANTJARY- TERM 183.!.
[The Cherokee Nation vs. The State of Georgia.]

Indians by cession of part of their territory. And if they, as a
nation, are competent to make a treaty or'contract, it would
seem to me to h a strange inconsistency to deny to them the
right and the power to enforce such a contract. And where the
right secured by such treaty forms a proper subject for judicial
cognizance, I can perceive no reason wly this court has not
jurisdiction of the case. The constitution expressly gives to
the court jurisdiction in all cases of law arid equity arising
under treaties made with the United StAtes. No suit will lie
against the United States upon such treaty, because no possi6ble case can exist where the United States can be sued. But
not so with respect to a state: and if any right secured by
treaty has been violated by a state, in a ease proper for judicial inquiry, no good reasof .is perceived why an action may
not be sustained- for violation of a right secured by treaty, as
well as by contract under any other form. The judiciary is
certainly not the, department of the government authorised to
enforce all rights that may be recognized and, secured by
treaty. In many instances, these are mere politioal rights with
which the judiciary cannot deal. But when the question re]Ites to a mere right of property, and a proper-'case can be
made between competent parties; it forms a proper subject for
judicial inquiry.
It is a rule which has been repeatedly sanctioned by this
court, that the judicial department is to -consider as sovereign
and independent states or nations those powers, that are recognized as such by the executive and legislatiVe departinents of
the government; they being more particularly entrusted with
our foreign relations. 4Cranch, 241, 2 Peters's Cond. Rep. 98.;
3 Wheat* 634; 4 Wheat.'64.
If we look to tho whole course of treatment by this countryof
the Indians, from the year 1775, to the present day, when dealing with tb3m in their aggregate capacity as nations or tribes,
and regarding the mode and manner in which all negotiations
have been carried on and concluded with them; the conclusion.
appears to me irresistible, that they have been regarded, by the
executive and legislative branches of the government, not only
as sovereign and independent, but as foreign nations or tribes,
not within the jurisdiction nor under the government of the
states within which they were located. This remark-is to be

SUPREME COURT.
EThe Cherokee Nation vs. The State of Georgia.]

understood, of course, as referring only to such as live together
as a distinct community, under their own laws, usages and customs; and not to the mere remnant of tribes' which are to be
found in many parts of our country, who have become mixed
with the general population of the country: their national
character extinguished; and their usages and customs in 'a
great measure abandoned; self government surrendered; and
who have voluntarily, or by the force of circumstances which
surrounded them, gradually become subject to the laws of the
states within which they are situated.
Such, however, is not the case with the Cherokee nation.
It retains its usages and customs and self government, greatly
improved by the civilization which it has been the policy of
the'United States to encourage and foster among them. All
negotiations carried o4 with the Cherokees and other Indian
nations have been by way of treaty with all the formality attending the making of treaties with any foreign power. The
journals of congress, from the year 1775 -down to the adoption of the present constitution, -abundantly establish this fact.
And since thatperiod such negotiations have been carried on
by the treaty-making power, and uniformly under the denomination of treaties.
What is a treaty as understood in the law of nations? It is
an agreement or contract between two or more nations or
sovereigns, entered into by agents appointed for that purpose,
and duly sanctioned by the supreme. power of the respective
parties. And where is the 'authority, either in the constitution or in the practice of the government, for mAking any
distinction, between treaties made with the Indian nationa and
any other foreign power? They relate to peace and war; the
surrender of,prisoners; !he cession of territory; and the various subjects which are usually embraced in such contracts between sovereign nations.
A recurrence to the various treaties made, with the Indian
nations and tribes in different parts of the country, will fully
illustrate this view of the relation in which our government
bis considered the Indians as standing. It will be sufficient,
hqwever, topotice a few of the many treaties made with this
'Cherokee nation.
By the treaty of Hopewell of the 28th November ,1785,

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[The Cherokee Nation vs. The State of Georgia.]

1 Laws U. S. 322, mutual stipulations are entered. into,
to restore all prisoners taken by either party, and the Cherokees stipulate to restore all negroes, and all other property taken from the citizens of the United States; and
a boundary line is settled between the Cherokees, and the
citizens of the United States, and this embraced territory
within the chartered limits of Georgia. And by the sixth
article it is provided, that if any Indian, or person residing
among them, or who shall take refuge-in their nation, shall
commit a robbery, or murder, or other capital crime on any
citizen of the United States, or person under their protection,
the nation or tribe to which such offender may belong shall deliver him up ±b be punished according to the ordinances of the
United States. What more explicit recognition of the sovereignty and independence of this nation could have been
made? It waq a direct acknowledgement, that this territory
was under a foreign jurisdiction. If it had been understood,
thatthe jurisdiction of the state of Georgia extended over.this
territory, no such stipulation would have been necessary.
The process df the courts of Georgia would have run into ihis
as well as into any other part of the state. It is a stipulation
analogous to that contained in -the treaty of 1794 with England, 1 Laws U. S. 220, bythe twenty-seventharticle of which it
is mutually agreed, that each party will deliver up tojustice all
persons, who, being charged with murder or forgery committed withirr the jurisdiction of either, shall seek an asylum
within any of the countries of the other. Upon what ground
can any distinction be made, as to the reason and necessity of
such stipulation, in !he respective treaties. The necessity
for the stipulation in both cases must be, because the process
of- one government and jurisdiction will not run into that of
another; and separate and distinct jurisdiction, as has been
shown, is what makes govern'ments and nations foreign to each
other in their political relations.
The same stipulation, as to delivering up criminals who
shall take refuge in the Cherokee naticif
is contained in the
treaty of Holston of the 2d of July 179, ,Laws
1
U. S. 527.
And the eleventh article fully recognizes the jurisdiction of
the Cherokee nation over the territory occupied by- them, It
provides, that if any citizen of the United States shall go into

SUPREME COURT.
[The Cberdkee Nation tv. The State of Georgia.]

the territory belonging to the Cherokees, and commit any
crime upon, or trespas's gainst the person, or propefty of any
friendly Indian, which, if committed within the jurisdiction of
iny state, would b6 punishable by the laws of such state, shall
be subject to the same punishment, and proceeded against in
the same manner, as if the offence had been committed within
the jurisdiction of the state. Here is an explicit admission
that the Cherokee territory is not within the jurisdidtion of any
state. If it had been considered within the jurisdiction of
Georgiai such a provision would not only be unnecessary but absurd; It is a-provision looking to the punishment of a citizen
of the United States.for some act done in a foreign country.,
If exercising exclusive jurisdiction over a country is sufficient
to constitute the state or power so exercising it a foreign state,.
the Cherokee nation may assuredly with the greatest propriety
he so -considered.
The phraseology of the -clause in the constitution, giving to
congress the power to regulate commerce, is supposed to afford
an argu'ment against considering the Cherokees a foreign nation. The clause reads thus, "rto regulate commerce with
foreign nations, and .among the several states, and with the Indian tribe§." Constitution, Art. 1, § 8.. The argument isthat if
the Indian tribes are foreign nation , they would have been
included .without being specially named, and being so named
imports something' different from the previous term "foreign nations."

This appears to me to partake too much of a mere verbal
criticism, to -draw after it the important conclusion t&at Indian -tribes are, not foreign nations. But the clatise affords,
irresistiblyj the conclasion, that the Indian tribes are not there
understood as included -within the description, of the "cseveral
states;," or there could have been no fitness in immediately*
thereafter particularizing "the Indian tribes."
It is generally understood that every separate body of Indians is divided into bands or tribes, and forms a little community within the nation to which it belongs; and as the
nation has some particular symbol by which itis distinguished
from others, so each tribe has a kadge from which it is denominated, and each tribe may have rights applicable to itself.
Cases may arise where the trade with a particular tribe may

JANTARY TERM 18S1.

63

[The Cherokee Nation vs. The State of Georgia.]

require to be regulated, and which might not have beew-embraced under the general description of the teim nation, or
it might at least have left the case somewhat doubtful; as the.'
clause was intended to vest in congress the power to regulate'all
commercial infercourse, this phraseology was probably adopted
to meet all possible .cases; and the provision would have been
imperfect, if the term Indian tribeshad been omitted.
Congress could not then have regulated the trade with any
particular tribe that did not extend to the whole nation. Or,
it may be, that the term tribe is here used as importing the
same thing as that of nation, and adopted merely to avoid the
repetition of the term natiowi: and the Indians are specially
named, beeause there was a provision somewhat analogous in
the confederation; and entirely omitting to name the Indian
tribes, might have afforded some plausible grounds for con.cluding that this branch of commercial intercourse was not subject to the power of congress.
On examining the journals of the old congress, which contain numerous proceedings and resolutions respecting the Indians, the terms "nation". and 1 t r i b e " are frequently used
indiscriminately, and as importing the same thing; and treaties were sometimes entered into with the Indians, under the
description or denomination of fribes, without naming the na
tion. See Journals 30th June and 12h July 1775; 8th March
1776; 20th October 1777: and numerous other instances.
But whether any of these. suggestions will satisfactorily
account fo, the phraseology here used or. not, it appears
to me to be of too doubtful import to outweigh the considerations to which I have xeferred to show that the Cherokees are a foreign nation. The difference between the provision in the.constitution and that in the confederation on this
subject appears to me to show very satisfactorily, that so far
as related to trade and commerce with the Indians wherever
found in tribes, whether within or without the limits of a state,
was subject to the regulation of congress.
The provision in the confederation, Art. 9, 1 Laws United
States, 17, is, that congress shall have the power of regulating
the trade and management of all affairs with the Indians not
members of iny of the states, provided that the legislative right
of any state within its own limits be not infringed or violated.

SUPREME COURT.
tThe Cherokee Nation vs. The State of Georgia.)

The true import or this provision-is certainly not very obvious;
see Federalist, No. 42. What 'were the legislative rights intended to be-embraced within the proviso is left in great uncertainty. But whatever difficulty on that subject might have
arisen under the confederation, it is entirely removed by the
omission of, the proviso in the 1.-esent constitution; thereby
leaving this power entirely with congress, without regard to
any state right on the subject; and showing that the Infdian
tribes were considered as distinct communities although within
the limits of a state.
The provision, as contained in the confederation, may aid
in illustrating what is to be inferred from some parts of the
constitution, Art. 1, § 1, par. 3, as to the appdrtionment of
representatives, and acts of congress in relation to the Indians,
to wit, that ihey are divided into two distinct classes. One
composed of those who are considered members of the state
within which they reside, and the other .not: the former
embracing the remnant of the tribes who had lost their distinctive character as a separate community, and had become
subject to the laws of the states; and the latter such as still retained their original connexion aq tribes, and live together
uhder their own laws, usages and customs, and, as such, are
treated as a community independent of the state. No very
important conclusion I think, therefore, cart be drawn from
the use of the term "tribe" in .this clause of the constitution;
intended merely for commercial regulations. If considered
as importing the same thing as the term "Ination," it might
have been adopted -to avoid the repetition of the word nation.
Oiher instances occur in the constitution-where different
terms are used importing the same thing. Thhs, in the clause
giving jurisdiction to this court,- the term "foreign states"
is used instead of "foreign nations," ar in th6 clause relating to commerce. And again, in Art. 1,§ 10, a still different
phraseology is employed.. "No- state, without the consent
of congress, shall. enter into any agreement or compact with a
' foreign power.'" But each of these terms, nation, state,
power', as used in different parts of the constitution, imports
the same thing, and does not admit of a different ifiterpretation. In the treaties made: with the Indians, they are sometimes designated under the name of tribe, and sometimes that

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[The Cherokee Nation vs. The State of Georgla.1

of nation. In the treaty of 1804 with the Delaware Indians,
they are denominated -the "Delaware tribe of 'Ithdians; 1
Laws United States, 305. And in a previous tteaty with the
same people in the year 1778, they are designated by the name
of' "the Delaware nation." I Laws United States, 302.
As this, was one of the earliest treaties made with the Indians, its provisions may serve to show in what light the In"
dian natiohs were viewed by congress at that day.
The territory of the Delaware nation wa*s within- the limits
of the states of New.York, Pennsylvania and New Jersey.
Yet we hear of no claim of jurisdiction set up by those, states
over these Indians. This treaty, both in form and substance
purports to be an arrangement with an indepnndent sovereign
power. It even purports to be articles of confederation. It
contains stipulations relative to peace and war, and for permission to the United States troops to pass through the country
df the Delaware* nation. That neither party shall pr6tect in
their respective states, servants, slaves, ol- criminals, fugitives
from the other; but secure, and deliver them up. Trade
is regulated between the parties. And the sixth article shows
the early pledge of the United States to protect the Indians in
their possessions, against any claims or encroachments of the
states. It recites, that whereas the 'enemies-of the United
States have endeavoured to impress the Indians in general
with an opinion, that it is the design of the states to extirpate the Indians, and take -possession of their counfty, toobviate such false suggestions; the-United States -do engage to'
guaranty to the aforesaid nation of Delawares and their heirs,
all their territorial rights, in the fullest and most ample man-ner, as it has been bounded by former treaties, &c. And provision is even made for inviting other tribcs to join the confederacy; and to form a state; and have a reprcsentation in
congress; shouldit be found conducive to -the mutual interest
of both parties. All which provisions.'are totally inconsistent
with the idea of these Indians being considered under the
jurisdiction of the states; although their chartered limits might
extend over them.
The recital,. in this treaty, contains a declaration and
admission 6f congress of the rights of Indians in general;
ard .that the impression wliich our enemies were endeaVOL. V.-I

SUPREME COURT.
[The Cherokee Nation vs. 'The State of Georgia.]

vouring to make, that it was the design of the states to
extirpate them and take their lands, was false. And the same
recognition of their rights runs through all the treaties made
with the Indian nations or tribes, from that day down to the
present time.
The twelfth article of the treaty of Hopewell contains a full
recognition of the sovereign and independent character of the
Cherokee nation. To impress upon them full confidence in
the justice of the United States respecting their interest, they
have a right to send a deputy of their choice to congress. No
one can suppose that such deputy was to take his seat as a
member of congress; but that he would be received as the
agent of that nation. It is immaterial what such agent is called,
whether minister, commissioner or deputy; he is to represent
his principal.
There could have been no fitness or propriety in any such
stipulation, if the Cherokee nation had been considered in
any way incorporated with the state of Georgia, or as citizens
of that state. The idea of the Cherokees being considered
citizens is entirely incoiusistent with several of our treaties
with them. By the eighth article of the treaty of the 26th
December 1817, 6 Laws U. S. 706, the United States stipulate to give 640 acres of land to each head of any Indian family residing on the lands now ceded, or which may hereafter be
surrendered to the United States, who may wish to become
citizens of the United States; so also the second article of
the treaty with the same nation; of the 10th of March 1819,.
contains the same stipulation in.favour Qf the heads of families,
who may choose to become citizens of the United States;
thereby clearly showing that they were not considered citizens at the time those stipulatioos were entered into, or the
provision would have been entirely unnecessary if not abaurd.
And if not citizens, .they must be aliens or foreigners, and
such must be the character of each individual belonging to
the iation. And it was, therefore, very aptly asked on the
argument, and I think not very easily answered, how a nation
composed of aliens or foreigners can be other than a foreign
nation.
The question touching the citizenship of an Oneida Indian
came under the consideration of the supreme court of New

JANUARY TERM i831.
[The Cherokee Nation vs. The State of Georgia.]

York in the case of Jackson vs. Goode], 20 Johns. 193. The
lessor of the plaintilt was the son of an Oneida Indian who
had received a patent for the lands in question, as an officer in the revolutionary war; and although the supreme
eourt, under the circumstances of the case, decided he was a
cititen, yet chief justice Spencer observed; we do not mean
to say that the condition of the Indian tribes (alluding to the
six nations), at former and remote periods, has-been that of
subjects or citizens of the state; their condition has been gradually changing, until they have lost every attribute of sovereignty, and become entirely dependent upon and subject to
.our government. But the cause being carried up to the court
-of errors, chancellor Kent, in a very'elaborate and able opinion
on that.question, came to a different conclusion as to the citizenship of the Indian, even under the strong circumstances of
that case.
"The Oneidas," he observed, and "the tribes composing the
six nations of Indians, were originally free and independent nations, and it is for the counsel who contend-that they have now
-ceased to. be- a distinct people and become completely incorpoiated with us, to point out the time when that event took
place. In myview they have never been.rerded as citizens,
or members of our body politic. They have always been,
and still are, considered by our laws as dependent tribes, governed by their own usages and chiefs; but placed under our
.protection, and subject to our coercion so far as the public safety
required it, and no farther. The whites have been gradually
pressing upon them, as they kept receding from the approaches
,ofcivilization. We have purchased the greater part of their
lands, destroyed their hunting grounds, subdued the wilderness around them, overwhelmed them with our population,
and gradually abridged their native independence. Still they
are permitted to exist as distinct nations, and we continue to
treat .with their sachems in a national capacity, and as being
the lawful representatives of their tribes. Through the whole
course of our colonial history, these Indians were. considered
aependent allies. The colonial authorities uniformly negotiated with them, 'and made and observed treaties with them
as sovereign communities exercising the right of free deliberation and action; but, in consideration of protecti6n, owing

SUPREME COURT.
[The Cherokee Nation vs. The State of Georgia.]

a qualified subjection in a national capacity to the British.
crown. No argument can be drawn against-the sovereignty
of these Indian nations, from the fact of 'their having put
themselves and their lands under the protection of the British
crown: such a fact is of frequent occurrence between inde .
pendent nations. One communlity may 'be bound to another
bya very unequal alliance, and still be a sovereign state. Vat.
B. 1, ch. 16, § 194. The Indians, though born .within our
territorial limits) are considered as born under the dominion'
.of.their own tribes. There is nothing in the- proceedings of
the United States during the revolutiohary war, whichwent
to -impair and niuch less to extinguish the national character
of the six nations, and consolidate them with'our own people.
Every public document speaks a different, language, and admits their-distinct existence and competence as nations; but
placed in thp same -state of dependence, and calling for the
same protection which existed before the war, In the treaties
made with them we have the forms and requisites pecdliar 'to
the intercourse between friendly and independent states; and
they are conformable to. the received institutes of the law of
nations. What more demonstrable proof can w -require of
existing and acknowledged sovereignty."
If this be a just view of the Oneida Indians, the rules and
principles here applied to that nation may with much greater
force be applied to the character. state, and condition of the
Cherokee nation of Indians; and we may safely conclude that
they are not citizens, and must of course be aliens: and, if
aliens in their individual capacities, it will be difficult to escape
the conclusion, that, as a community, they constitute a foreign
nation or state, and thereby become a competent party to
maintain an action in this court, according to' the express
terms of the constitution.
And why should this court scruple to consider this nation
a competent party to appear here ?.
Other departments of the government, whose right it is to
decide wlat powers shall be recognized as sovereign. and. independent nations, have treated this nation as -such, They
have considered it competent, in its political and national dapacity, to enter into contracts of the most solemn character;.and
if these contracts contain matter proper. for judicial inquiry,

JANUARY TERM 1331.
[The Cherokee Nation v8. The State of Georgia.]

whyshould we refuse to entertain jurisdiction of the case? Such
jurisdiction is expressly given to this court in cases arising under treaties. If the executive department does not think pro-'
per to enter into treaties or contracts with the Indian nations,,
no case with them can, arise calling for judicial cognizance.
But when such treaties are found containing stipulations prper for judicial cognizance, I am unable to. discover any reasons satisfying my mind that this court has not jurisdiction of
the case.,
The next. inquiry is, whether such a case is made out in-the
bill as to warrant this court in granting any relief?.
I have endeavoured. to show that the Cherokee nation is a foreign state; and,'as'such, a competent party to maintain an origiiql suit in this court against one of the United States. The injuries complained of are violations committed and threatened
upon the'property of the complainants, secured to them by
the laws and treaties of-lhe United States. Under the constitution, the judicial power of the United States extends. expressly to all cases in law and equity, arising under the laws
of the United States, and treaties made or which shall be
made, under the authority of the same.
In the ease of Osborn vs. The United States Bank, 9 Wheat.
819, the court say, that this'clause'in the coistitution enables the
judicial department to receive jurisdiction to the full extent of
the constitution, laws, and treaties of the United States, when
any question respecting ihem shall assume such a form that the
judicial power is capable of acting on it. That power is capable
of acting only when the subject is submitted to it by a party
who asserts his rights in the form presented by law. It then
becomes a case, and the constitution auth9rises the appl'ication
of the judicial power.
The question presented in the present. case isj under the
ordinary form of judicial proceedings to' obtain an injunction
to prevent or stay a. violatiQn of the rights of property claimed
And held by the complainants; ,under the treaties and. laws of
the'United States; which, it is alleged, have been violated by,
the state of. Georgia. Both the form, and the subject matter
of the complaint,'therefore, fall properly under judicial cognizance.
What the rights of property in the Cherokee nation are,

SUPREME COURT.
[The Cherokee Nation vs. The State of Georgia.]

may be discovered from the several treaties which have been
made between the United States and that nation between ,the
years 1785 and 1819. It will be unnecessary to notice. many
of them. They all recognize, in the most unqualified manner,
a right of property in this natibn, to the occupancy at least, of
the lands in question. It is immaterial whether this interest
is a mere right of otcupancy, or an absolute right to the soil.
The complaint.is for a violation, or threatened violation,' of
the possessory right.. And this is a right, in the enjoyment
of which they are entitled to protection, according to the
doctrine, of this court in the cases of Fletcher vs. Peck, 6
Cranch 87,.2 Peters's Cond. Rep. 308, and Johnson v&. M'Intosh, 8 Wheat. 592. .By .the fourth article of the treaty of
Hopewell, as early as the year 1785, 1 Laws United States,
323,'the boundary line between the Cherokees and the citizens of the United States within thelimits of the United States
is fixed.
-The fifth article provides for the removal and punishment .of
,itizens* of the United States or other persons, not being In,dians, w;ho shall attempt to settle on the- lands so allotted to
the Indians; thereby not only surrendering the exclusive possession of these lands to this nation, but providing for the protection and enjoyment of such possession. And, itmay be
remarked; in c6rroboration of what has been said in 'a former
part of this opinion, that there is here drawn a marked line of
distinction between the Indians and citizens of the United
States; entirely excluding the former' from the character of
citizens.
Again, by the treaty of Hoiston in 1791, 1 Laws United
States, 325, the United States purchase a part of the territory
of this nation, and a new bdundary line is designated, and
provision made -forhaving it ascertained -and marked. The
mere act of purchasing and paying a consideration for these
lands is a recognition of the Indiatn- right. In addition to
which, the United, States, -by the seventh article, solemnly
guaranty to the Cherokee nation all their lands not ceded by
that treaty. And by the eighth article it is deelared, that. any
citizens of the United States, who shall settle upon any of the
Cherokee lands, shall forfeit the protection of the United States;
and the Cherokees may punish them or, not as they shall please.

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[The Cherokee Nation vs. The State of Georgia.]

This treaty was made soon after the adoption of the present constitution. And in the last article it -is. declared that
it shall take effect, and be obligatory ppon the contraeting
parties as soon as the same shall have been ratified, by the
president of the United States) with the advice and consent
of the senate; thereby showing the early opinion of 'the government of the character of the Cherokee nation. The contract is made by way of treaty, and to be ratified in the same
manner as all other treaties made with sovereign and indlependent nations; and which has been the mode of negotiating
in all subsequent Indian treaties.
And this course was adopted by president Washington upon
great consideration, by and with the previous advice and concurrence of the senate. In his message sent to the senate on
that occasion, he states, that the white people had intruded on.
the Indian lands, as bounded by the treaty of Hopewell, and
declares his determination toexecute the power entrusted to
him by the constitution to carry that treaty into faithful execution; unless a new boundary should be arranged with the Cherokees, embracing the intrusive settlements, and compensating the Cherokees therefor. And he puts to the senate this
question: shall the United States stipulate solemnly to guarantee the new boundary which shall be arranged? Upon which,
the senate resolve, that in case a new, or other boundary than
that stipulated by the treaty of Hopewell shall'be concluded
with the Cherokee Indians, the senate do advise and consent
solemnly to guaranty the same: 1 Executive Journal, 60.
In consequence of which the treaty of Holston was entered
into, containing the guarantee.
Further cessions of land have been made at different times,
by the Cherokee nation to the United States, for a consideration paid therefor; and, as the treaties declare, in acknowledgement for the protection of the United States- (see treaty of
1798, 1 Laws U. S. 332): the United States always recognizing, in the fullest manner, the Indian right of possession:
and in the treaty of the .8th of July 1817, art. 5 (6 Laws
U. S. 702), all former treaties are declared to be in full force;
and the sanction of the United States is given to the proposition of a portion of the nation to begin the establishment of
fixed laws and a regular government: thereby recognizing
in the nation a political existence, capable of forming an inde-

72

SUPREME CoGRT

-

[The Cherokee Nation vai The State-of Georgia.]

pendent government, separate and distinct from and in no
Thabner whatever und~r the-jurisdiction of the state of Georgia; and no objection is known to have been made by that state.
And, again, in 1819 (6 Laws. U., S- .748), another treaty
is made sanctioning and 'carrying 'into effect the measures
,contemplated by the treaty of 1817; beginning with a recital that "the greater part of the Cherokees have expressed
an earnest" desire to remain on this side of the Mississippi,
and being desirous, in order to commence those measures which
ihey, deem necessary 'to the .oivilization and preseryation of
their nation, that the treaty..between'the United Stafes and
.them, of the 8th of Jvly .1817,,might without further delay
be .finally'adjusted, have offered to make a further cession of
land, &c. This cession is .ace.eted, and varigus tipulations
entered into, with a viewto-therr civiliziti6n, and theestablishment bf a regular governinent, which has since *been,accomplished; And by the fifth article'it'is stipulated that all
White people who have intruded, or who shall thereafter intrude on the lands reserved for the..herokees shall be removed
.by the United States, .an'd proceeded against according to the
provisions of the aot of 1802; entitled "An act to regulate
trade and intercourse.with the-Indian tribes) and to preserve
peace on the frontiers." 3 Laws I. -S. 460. By this act the
boundary lines, established by treaty with the va~rioug Indian
tribes, are required'to be ascertained and marked; and among
others, that with the Cherokee nation, according to the treaty
of the 2d of October 1798;
'It may be necessary here briefl'to notice some of the-provisions of this' act of 1802,. so far as it goes to protect'the
rights-of property .in the Indians; for the puipose of seeing
whether there has been any"violation of those rights by the
state of'-Georgia, which falls. properly under judicial cognizatice; :By. this act it is made an offence punishable by fine and
imprisonment, for aiy citizen or other, persou resident in the
United States'or either of the territorial districts, to cross
over.or go within the' boundary line, to hunt or. destroy the
game, or drive stcck to, range or feed on the Indian lands, or
to gointo'any country allotted to th- Indians, without 'a passport, or to 'commit therein any robbery, larceny, trespass, or
other crime, against the person or property.of any friendly

JANUARV TERM 1831.
[The Cherokee Nation vs. The State of Georgia.]

Indian, which would, be punishable, if committed within the
jurisdittion of anystate against a citizen of the United States;
thereby necessarily implying that the Indian territory secured
by treaty was' not within the jurisdiction of any state. The
act further provides, that when property is taken or destroyed, the offender shall forfeit and pay twice the value of
the property so taken or destroyed. And by the fifth section
it is declared, that if any citizen of the United States, or other
person, shall make a settlement on any lands belonging or
secured, or guarantied, by treaty with the United States to any'
Indian tribe; or shall survey or attempt to survey, such lands,
or designate any of the boundaries, by marking trees or otherwise; such offender shall forfeit a sum not exceeding one-thousand dollars, and suffer imprisonment not exceeding twelve
months.
This act contains various other provisions for the purpose of
protecting the Indians in the free and uninterrupted enjoyment
of their lands: and authority is given (§ 16) to employ the
military force of the United States to apprehend all persons
who shall be found, in the Indian country, in violation of any of
the provisions of the act; and deliver them up to the civil authority, to be proceeded against in due course of law.
It may not be improper here to notice some diversity'of
opinion that has been entertained with respect to the construction of the nineteenth section of this act, which declarhs that
nothing therein contained shall he consti'ued to prevent any
trade or intercourse with the Indians living on lands surrounded by settlements of citizens of the United States, and being
within the ordinary jurisdiction of any of the individual
states. It is understood that the state of Georgia contends
that the Cherokee nation comb within this section, and are
subject to the jurisdiction of that state. Such a construction
makes the act inconsistent with itself, and directly repugnant
to the various treaties entered into between the United States
and the Cherokee Indians. The act recognizes and adopts
the boundary line as settled by treaty. And by thuse treaties, which are in full force, the United States solemnly guaranty to the Cherokee nation all their lands not ceded to the
United States; and these lands lie within the chartered limits
of Georgia: and this was a subsisting guarantee under the
VOL. V.-K

SUPREME COURT.
[The Cherokee Nation vs. The State of Georgia.)

treaty of 1791, where -te act of 1802 was passed. It would
require the nmost unequivocal language to aathorise a construction so directly repugfiant to these treaties.
But this section admits of a plain and obvious interpretation, consistent with other parts of the act, and in harmony
with these treaties. The reference undoubtedly is to that
clas8 of Indians which has already been referred to, consisting
of the mere remnants of tribes, which have become almost extinct; and who have, in a great measure, lost their original
character, and abandoned their usages and customs, and become subject to the laws of the state, although in many parts
of the country living together, and surrounded by the whites.
They cannot be said to have anycdistinct government of their
own, and are within the ordinary jurisdiction and government
of the state where they are located.
But such was not the condition and character of the Cherokee nation,-in any respect whatever, in the year 1802, or at
any time since. It whs a numerous and distinct nation, living.under.the government'of their own laws, usages, and customs, and in no sense under the ordinary jurisdi~tion of -the
state of Georgia;'but under the. protectiob of the United States,
with. a s6lemn guarantee by treaty of the exclusive right to
the. possession of their lands. This guarantee is to the Cherokees in their niational capacity. Their land is held in common, and every invasion of their possessory right is an injury
done to the nation, and not to any individual. No private or
individual suit could be sustained: the injury done being to
the nation, the rejnedy sought must be in the name of the nation. All the rights secured'to these Ivdians, under any treaties made with them, remain unimpaired. These treaties are
acknowledged by the United States to be in full force, by the
proviso to the seventh section of the act of the 28th May
1830; which declares, that nothing in this act contained shall
be construed as authorising or directing the violation of
any existing treaty.between the United States and any Indian
tribes.
That the Cherokee nation of Indians have, by virtue of these
'treaties, an exclusive right of occupancy of the lands in question, and that the United States are bound under their guar.
antee, to protect the nation in the enjoyment of such occu-

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[The Cherokee Nation vs. Thw State of Georgia.]

pancy; cannot,, in my judgment, admitof a doubt: and that
-ome of the laws of Georgia set out in the-bill are in violation
of, and in confict with those treaties and the act of 1802, is
to my rpinl equally clear. -But a majority of the court having refused thi injunction, so that no relief whatever can be
granted, it would be a fruitless inquiry for me to go at large
into an examination mf the extent to. Which relief might be
granted by this court, according to.my own view of the case.
I certainly, as before observed, do not claim, as belonging
to the judiciary, the exercise of political power. That belongs
to another branch of the government. The protection-and enforcement of many rights, secured by trqaties, most bertainly
do not belong to the judiciary. It isonly where fhe rights, of
persons or property are involved, and when such righti'can
be presented under some judicial for m - of-proceeding;, that
courts of justice can interpose relief.
This court can have no right to pronounce an abstract' opinion upon the, constitutionality'of a state law. Such law ihust
-be brought into actual r threatened operation, upon -rights
properly falling uder judicial cognizance, or a remedy is not
to be had here.
The laws of Georgia det out in the,'bill, if carried fully'into
operation, go the length~of abrogating all the laws of the Cherokees, abolishing their government, and entirely subverting
their national character. Although. the whole of these laws
may. be in violation of the treaties,made with this nation, it is
probable this court cannot.grant reliefto the full extent of -the
-complaint. Some of them; however, are so directly at variancewith these treaties and the laws of the United States;
touching the rights of property secured to :them,.that. I can
perceive no objection to the application of jqdiqial relief. "The
state of Georgia certainly could not have intended these-laws
as declarations of hostility,- or wish tbeir execution *ofthem fo
be viewed inany manner whatever as acts of war; but-merely
as an assertion of what is claimed as a legal i'ight: and in'this
light ought they- to be considered by this courtL
Ther act of the.2d-of December, 1830 is entitled "an act to
authorize the governor to take possession nf the gold aid silver
and other mines lying and being in that section of the chartered limits of Georgia, commonly called the Cherokee coun-

SUPREME COURT.
[The Cherokee Nation vs. The State of Georgia.]

try, and those upon all other unappropriated lands of the
state, and for punishing-persons who may be found trespassing
on the mines." The preamble to this act asserts the title to
these mines to belong to-the state of Georgia; and by its provisions twenty thousand dollars are appropriated, and placed at
the disposal of the governor to enable him to take possession of
those mines; and it is made a crime, punishable by imprisonment
in the penitentiary of Georgia at hard labour, for the Cherokee
Indians to work these mines. And the bill alleges that under
the laws of the-state in relation to the mines, the governor
has stationed at the mines an armed force who are employed
in restraining the complainants in their rights and liberties
in regard to their own mines, and in enforcing the laws of
Georgia upon them. These can be considered in no other
light than as acts bf trespass; and may be treated as acts of the
state; and not of the individuals errployed as the agents.
Whoever authorises or commands an act to be done may be
considered a principal, and held responsible, if he can be made
a party to a suit: as the state of Georgia may undoubtedly
be. It is not perceived on what ground the state can claim
a right to the possession and use of ihese mines. The right
of occupancy is secured to the Cherokees by treaty, and the
state'has not .even a reversionary interest in the soil. It is
true, that by the compact with Georgia of 1802, the United
States have stipulated, to extinguish, for the use of the state,
the Indian title to the lands within ber remaining limits, "4as
soon as it can be done peaceably and upon reasonable terms."
But until this is done, the state can have no claim to the
lands.
The very compact is a recognition by the state of a subsisting Indian right: and- which may never be extinguished.
The United States.have not stipulated to extinguish it, until
it can be done "peaceably and upoli reasonable terms;" and
Whatever complaints the state of Georgia may have against
the United States for the non-fulfilment of this compact, it
cannot affect the right of the.Cherokees. They have not stipulated to part with that right; and until they do, their right to the
mines stands upon the same footing as the use and enjoyment
of any other part of the territory.
Again, by the act of the 21st December 1830, surveyors
-

JANUARY TERM 1831[The Cherokee Nation us. The State of Georgia.]

are authorized to be appointed to enter upon the Cherokee
territory and lay it off into districts and sectibns, which are
to be distributed by lottery among the people of Georgia; reserving to the Indians only the present occupancy of such
improvements as the individuals of their nation may now be
residing on, with the lots on which such improvements may
stand, and even excepting from such reservation improvements
recently made near the gold mines
This is not only repugnant tb the treaties with the Cherokees, but directly in violation of the act of congrqss of 1802;
the fifth section of which makes it an offence punishable with
fine and imprisonment, to urvey or attempt to survey or designate any of the boundaries, by marking trees or otherwise, of
any land belonging to or secured by treaty to any Indian. tribe:
in the face of Which, the law of. Georgia authorises the entry
upon, taking possession of, and surveying, and distributing by
lottery, these lands guarantied by treaty to the Cherokee
nation; and even gives authority to the governor to call out
the military force, to protect the surveyors in .the discharge of
the duty assigned them.
These instances are sufficient to show a direct, .and palpable
infringement of the rights of property secured to the complainants by*treaty, and in violation of the act of congress of
1802. These treaties aild this law, are declared- by the
constitution to be the supreme law of the land: it follows,
as matterlof course, that the laws of Georgia, so'far as they
are repugnant, to them, must be void and inoperative. And it
remains only very briefly to inquire whether the execution of
them can be restrained by injunction according to the doctrine and practice of courts of equity.
According to the view which I have already taken of
the case, I must consider the question of right as settled in
favour of the complainants. This right rests upon the laws
of the United States, and treaties, made with the Cherokee
nation. The construction of these laws and treaties are pure
questions of law, and for the decision of the court. There are
no grounds, therefore, upon which it can be necessary to send
the cause for a trial at law of the right, before awarding an injunction; wid the simple question is, whether such a case is
made out by the bill, as to authorize the granting an injunction.

SUPREME COURT.
[The Cherokee Natlon vs. The State of Georgia.]

This is a. prohibitory Writ, to restrain a party from doing a
wrongor injury ta the rights of another. It is a beneficial protess, for the protection of rights; and is favourably viewed by
,courts-fchancery; as its object is to prevent rather than redress
injuries; and has latterly been more liberally awarded than
formerly. 7 Ves. Jun. 807.
The bill contains charges of numerous'trespasses by entering
upon the lands of the, complainants and doing acts greatly to
their injury and'prejudice, and to the disturbance of the quiet
enjoyment -oftheir land, and threatening'a total destruction of
all their rightso And although it is not according to the
course of chancery, to grant injunctions to prevent trespasses
when there is a clear and adequate remedy at law, yet it
,will be done when. the case is spatial and peculiar, nnd when
no adequate remedy can be had at law, and particularly vhen*
the injury threatens irreparable ruin. 6 Ves, 147. 7 Eden,
307.' Every man is entitlqd to be protected in the possession
and enjoyment of his property; and the ordinary remedy by
action- of trespass may generally be sufficient to afford such
protection. But, 'wherefrom the peculiar nature and circumstances of the case, this is not an adequate protection, it is a fit
case to interpose the preventive process of injunction. This
is ithe -principle running through all the caes on this Subject,
and is founded upon the most wise and just considerations;
and tWi is peculiarly such a ease. The complaint is not of a
mere private trebpassi admitting of compensation in damages;
but of jnjuri s which.go to tle'totil destrucion of the whole
right ofthelcomplaInants. The mischief threatened, is great
and irreparable. .7Jdhns. Cha. 330.,. It is one of the most
beneficial powers of a court of equity to interpose and prevent
an injury,, before any has actually been suffered; and this is
doneby a bill,-whieh is sometimes'e-alled a bill quia timet. Mitfora,, 120.
The' doctrine of this. court'in the case:of Osbornd v8. The
VJnited States Bank, 9 Wbeat. 338,. fully sustains 'the -present application-for an-injunction. The bill in that case was
Aled to obtain aj inj.unction against the auditor of the state of
Ohiof-to restrain him from executing'a law of that state, which
was alleged to be to the great injury, of the bank,,and to the
destruction of rights conferred by their clarter. - The only.

JANUARY TERM. 1&-.

79

[Te Cherokee Nation vs. The State of Georgia.]
question of doubt entertained by the court in that case was, as
to issuing an injunction against an officer of the state to restrain
him from doing an official act enjoined by statute, the state
not being made a party. But even this was n6t-eemed sufficient to .deny the injunction. The court considered that
the Ohio law was made for the avowed purpose of expelling
the bank from the state, and depriving it of its chartered privileges: and they say, if the state could have been made a
party defendant, it would scarcely be denied, that it would
be a strong case for an injunction; that the application was
not to interpose the writ of injunction, to protect the bank
from a common and casual trespass of an individual, but from
a total destruction of its franchise, of its chartered privileges,
so far as respected the state of Ohio. In that case, the state'
could not be made a party accordingto the eleventh amendment of the constitution; the complainants being mere individuals and not a sovereign state. But, according to my view
of he present case, the state of Georgia is properly made O
party defendant;'the complainants being a foreign state.
The laws of the state of Georgia in this case go as fully to
the total destruction of the complainants' rights as did the la*
of Ohio to the destruction of the rights of the bank in that.
state; and an injunction is as fit and proper in this case to
prevent the injury, as it was in that.
It forms no objection to the issuing of the injunction in this
case, that the lands in question do not lie within the jurisdiction of this court. The writ does not operate in rem, buin
personam. If the party is within the jurisdiction of the court,
it is all that is necessary to.give full effect and operatiin'to the
injunction; and it is immaterial where the subject matter of the
suit, which is only affected consequentially, is situated. This
principle is fully recognized by this court in the case of
Massie vs. Watts, 6 Cranch; 157; when this general rule is
laid down, that in a case of fraud of trust or of contract,
the jnrisdiction of a court of chancery is sustainable, wherever
the person may be found, although lands not within the jurisdiction of the court may be affected by the decree. And
reference is made to several cases in the English chanceryrecognizing the same principle. In the case of Penn vs.
Lord Baltimore, 1 Ves. 444, a specific.performance of a con-

SUPREME COURT.
[The Cherokee Nation vs. The State of Georgia.]

tract respecting- lands lying in North America was decreed;
the chancellor saying, the strict primary decree of a court of
equity is in personam, and may be enforced in all cases when
the person is within its jurisdiction.
'Upon the whole, I am of opinion,
1. That the Cherokees compose a foreign state within the
sense and meaning of the constitution, and constitute a competent party to maintain a suit against the state of Georgia.
2. That the bill presents a case for judicial consideration,
arising under the laws of the United States, and treaties made
under their authority with the Cherokee nation, and which
laws and treaties have been, and are threatened to be still further violated by the laws of thie state of Georgia referred to in
this opinion.
3. That an injunction is a fit and proper writ to be issued,
to prevent the further execution of such laws, and ought there-.
fore to be awarded.,
And I am authorised by my brother Story to say, that he
concurs with me in this opinion.

