224

SUPREME COURT.

WILLIAM YEA'I'oN v',. ADmIaI LYNN, EXECUTOR OF JOHN
WISE, USE OF -TuoMAS C. LYLES AND REBECCA HIS WIFE,
DENNIS M. LYLES, HENRY S. COOMBS AND LOUISA HIS

L. as executor to W. instituted an action of assumpsit on the 8th of April
1826. The declaration stated L. to be executor of W. and claiming as executor for money paid by him as such. The defendant pleaded *non assumpsit, and a verdict and judgment were given for the plaintiff. After the ihstitution of the suit and before the trial, the letters testamentary of L. were
revoked by the orphan's court of the county of Alexandria, he having, after
being required, failed to give bond with counter security as directed by the
court.
The powers of the orphan's court ot Alexandria are made by act of congress identical with the powers of an orphan's court under the laws of Maryland. It is a
court of limited jurisdiction, and is authorised to revoke letters testamentary in
two cases: a failure to return an inventory; or to account. The proceedings
against L. were not founded upon either of these omissions. The appropriate
remedy, on the failure of the executor to give counter security, is to take the
estate out of his hands, and to place it in the hands of his securities.
The issue tried by the jury was on the plea of non assumpsit. As the plaintiff
was incontestably executor when the suit was brought and when issue was
joined, and could then rightfully maintain the action, and the revocation of the
letters testamentary was not brought before the court by a plea since the last,
continuance, as it might have been; the defendant must be considered as
waving thiq defence, and resting his cause on the several issue.
A plea since the last continuance waves the issue previously joined, and puts the
case on that plea.
It is not doubted that the revocation might have been pleaded; and it ought to
have been pleaded, in order to bring the fact judicially to the view of the circuit
court. It ought to appear upon the record that judgment was given against
the plaintiff in the circuit court, because he was no long r executor of W.
not because the defendant was not indebted to the estate of W. and had not
made the a.sumpsit mentioned in the declaration.
The rule is general that a plea in bar admits the ability of the plaintiff to sue; and
if the patties go to trial on that issue, the presumption is reasonable, that this
admission continues.
When a suit is brought by an administrator; during the minority of the executor,
his powers as administrator are determined when the executor has attained his
full age, and the fact that he has not attaioitd his full age must be averred in
the declaration. l3ut if this averment be omitted, and the defqndant pleads
in the bar, he admits the ability of the plaintiff to sue, and the judgment is
not void.
A distinction seems to be taken between an action brought by a person who has
no right to sue, and an action brought by a person capable of suing at the time,
but who becomes incapable while it is depending.' In the first case the plaintiff may be non suited at the trial" in the lst the disability must be pleaded.

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[Yeaton vs. Lynn.]
The rule is, that when matter of defence has arisemafter the commencement of a
suit, it cannot be pleaded in bar of the action generally; but must, when it
has arisen b~fore plea or continuance be pleaded as to the further maintenance
of the suit, and when it has arisen after issue joined, puis darreirn con.

tinuance.
It may safely be affirmed that a fact which diestroys the action, if it cannot be
pleaded in bar, cannot begiven in evidence on a plea in barto which it has no
relation. If any matter of defence hs arisen after an issue in fact, it may be
pleaded by thedefendant; as that the plaintiff has given him a release; or in
an action by an administrator that the plaintiff's letters of administration have
been revoked.

ERROR to the circuit court of the United Siates for the
county of Washington in the district of Columbia.
The defendant in error, as executor of John Wise, on the
8th of April 1826, instituted an action of assumpsit in the
circuit Court. The declaration contained two counts; the first
for money paid, laid out and expended; the second on account
for money paid, &c., in which the defendant is alleged to have
been found in arrears to the plaintiff, as executor. The letters testamentary of the plaintiff, as executor of John Wise,
were recorded by the orphan's court on the 9th of November 1826.
The jury found a verdict for the plaintiff, and assessed the
damages at two thousand four hundred and'thirty-one dollars
fifty-nine cents, with interest from the 1st of January 1820;
subject to the opinion of the court on a case agreed. The circuit court gave judgment for the plaintiff, and the defendant
prosecuted this writ of error.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr E. J. Lee, for the plaintiff in error, contended that there
was error in the judgment of the circuit court,
1. Because Adam Lynn, as executor of John Wise, could
-not maintain an action against Yeaton for money which he
had been decreed to pay as trustee under a deed of trust out
of the trust fund, which forms no part of the assets of his testator.
2. Because the case agreed does not sustain the allegation
of the first count of the declaration that he as executor of
John Wise paid money for William Yeaton. But it shows he
never as executor had the means of paying money to any one.
VoL, V. -2 D

SUPREME COURT.
[Yeaton vs. Lynn.]

3. There is no evidence in the record to sustain the second
count in the declaration.
4. Because by the' case agreed, and the proceedings referred
to by it, it appears that at the time the verdict and judgment
were rendered, Adam Lynn bad ceased to be executor. This
fact having been given in' evidence on the general issue, it is
as competent for the plaintiff in, error to avail himself of it
now, as if it had been at the proper time specially plehded.
Mr Lee said it would not'be denied that the orphan's court
had authority to revoke the letters testamentary. This was
fully warranted by the law of Maryland. The letters testamentary having been revoked, Mr Lynn was put out of court
as executor, and was no longer competent to prosecute the suit.
In the case of a revocation of letters testamentary, all the intermediate acts of the executor are void. 11 Viner's Abridg.
114,117. Bornhurst vs. Yelverton, Yelv. Rep. 83. Klett's
case, Yelv. 125. Turner vs. Davis, 2 Saund. 148. Mod.
Rep. 63.
He also contended that no money had been paid by Adam
Lynn as executor, but only as trustee: the evidence authorized
this position.
Mr Jones, for defendant, argued that the liability or capacity
of.the executor, Mr Lynn, to sue was not affected by the proceedings of the orphan's court. That court was one of limited jurisdiction, with powers specially designated; and among
them was not that of removing an executor under the circumstances of this case. The court could have called on the executor to give security, but could not proceed under the law as
it had done. The court could take away the assets from the
executor, but not displace him.
The case stated shows that the trust fund was by the decree
in the chancery proceedings made assets in the hands of the
executor.
Mr Chief Justice MRSIIALL delivered the opinion of the
Court
This is an action on the case brought by Adam Lynn as
executor of John Wise, for the use of Thomas C. Lyles and
others, against William Yeaton, in the circuit court of the

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[Yeaton vs. Lynn.]

United States, sitting in the county of Alexandria. The declaration contains two counts; one for money paid by the
plaintiff Lynn, as executor for the use of 'the defendant, and
the other on an account settled by the sal -plaintiff, as executor, with the defendant for money due by the defendant to
the plaintiff as executor, as aforesaid.
The course was tried on the issue of non assumpsit, and the
jury found a verdict for the plaintiff below, subject to the
opinion of the court on a case agreed. Judgment was given
for the plaintiff,and the then defendant has brought that judgment before this court by a writ of error.
The case agreed is in the words following.
The plaintiff to support the issue on his part gave -evidence
to prove that John Wise the testator, in his life time, had indorsed a note as security for the defendant to one Robert
Young, for the sum of -,
upon which vote judgment was
obtained by said Young against such drawer and indorser, and
execution of one of the said judgments being levied upon the
goods, &c. of the defendant, he gave a forthcoming bond with
the said testator as his security in such bond, upon which bond
judgment was regularly entered against principal and security
in the life time of testator. The plaintiff then produced and
read in evidence to the'jury, the proceedings in two chancery
causes, the one by the said Robert Young against the said Adam
Lynn et al; the other by the bank of Alexandria, against the
same defendants, thereto annexed. And the plaintiff in.order
to show that the decree in the first of the said chancery cases
had been paid and satisfied by the plaintiff, by way of a discount between him and the said Young, gave evidence to prove
that the plaintiff had indorsed a note as security for said Young,
discounted for his said Youn,'s use in the branch bank of
the United States, upon which note the said bank had recovered judgment against the said Young for three hundred dollars with interest, from the 4th of March 1817, till paid,
and costs. The said note and judgment had been taken up by
plaintiff, as security for said Young, on the 24th of March
1820, and thereupon assigned over to the plaintiff; and that
the said Robert Young, by way of indemnity and payment to
the plaintiff, assigned over to him the said judgment obtained
by Young against the defendant ard all his claims and reme-

SUPREME COURT.
[Yeaton vs. Lynn.]

dies, &c. upon the estate of the testator, as by a short copy of
the said judgment and assignment indorsed thereon therevnto
annexed. That the plaintiff before the institution of the said
suits in chancery, and after the death of the testator, had sold
out sufficient of the stocks mentioned in the said deed, to pay
the said debt due the said Young; but without any reference
to the said suitsi or to the said Young's claim, nor for the purpose of satisfying any creditor of the testator; and, at the time
of the institutk.n of said suits, had the money in his hands
proceeding from such sales, which money he has retained as
agai nst such of the cestuis que trust named in the said deed as
are named as equitable plaintiffs in this case; that the will of
the said John Wise was duly proved and recorded in the orphans' court, and letters testamentary thereon duly granted to
the plaintiff, and other proceedings relative there to therein
had, as appeared by the annexed transcript of proceedings in the
orphan's court, and that the said bank of Alexandria recovered
judgment of the plaintiff, as appeared by the annexed record
of the said judgment to bind assets.
And it is agreed that the verdict to be rendered in this
cause shall be subject to the opinion of the court, whether the
plaintiff is entitled to recover in this action for so much
of the assets which the said deed purports to convey in trust,
as has been appropriated under the said decree in manner
aforesaid, to satisfy .the said debt due to the said Robert
Young, and discounted with the plaintiff as aforesaid.
The judgment which was obtained by Robert Young,
against John Wise, in his life time and William Yeaton, the
defendanlt, is stated in the case agreed to have been for the
proper debt of the defendant,-for which Johp Wise was surety. This debt hasneverleen paid by the aefendant, and was
not paid by John Wise in his life time.
After this judgment William Yeaton became insolvent; and
John Wise sold his real estate in Alexandria, and invested
the proceeds'in bank stock, in the name of Adam Lynn, the
.plaintiff; after Which he executed a declaration of trust infavour of his children and grandchildren, and departed this
life, having first made his last will and testament of which he
appointed the plaintiff executor, who took upon himself the
,execution thereof.

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[Yeaton vs. Lynn.]

The chancery causes mentioned in the case agreed were inztituted in July 1818, for the purpose of setting aside as fraudulent with respect to creditors, this deed to Adam Lynn the
plaintiff, and for obtaining payment of the debt due to the
plaintiffs respectively, out of that fund. The court, in July
1824, decreed that the deed of trust be annulled and vacated,
so far as respects the complainants, and that the said Adam
Lynn do sell and dispose of so much of the !rust fund as will
satisfy and pay.to the complainants their debt aforesaid with
interest and costs. The case shows that previous to this decree, on the 24th of March 1820, the plaintiff had paid this
judgment obtained by Young against Yeaton, with Wise as
his surety; and -that he had sold a iufficient quantity of the'
stock standing in his name to meet the claim, the proceeds of
which sale he held in his hands at the time the debt was paid
to Young.
It is obvious that the debt due from Yeaton, the*defendant, to Young, for which Wise was surety, has been paid out of
the estate of Wise. Consequently,"that-estate has an unquestionable claim on Yeaton for the amount paid. The judgment
rendered by the circuit court in favour of Adam Lynn, who
was both executor and trustee of John Wise,. is resisted on the
ground that he has sued as executor,, though he paid the money either on his private account or as trustee.
The bill in chancery on which all the proceedings between
Wise. and Lynn were annulled, so far as respected this debt,
and by the decree on which Adam Lynn was directed to pay
the sum due to Robert Young, states that Lynn was both executor and trustee. The executor and trustee were both necessary parties to the suit, and had they been distinct persons
must both have been brought before the court. The two characters being united in the same person and that person being
directed to execute the decree, it would seem reasonable to
presume that he acted in the character in which he ought to
perform the partikular act, especially if it be necessary to
give the act its full effect, and to make it rightfulThe trust property bad been sold in anticipation of the decree, and the money retained by the trustee and executor.
When the investment in the name of Lynn, and the declaration of trust, were vacated and declared void, so far as re-

SUPREME COURT.
tYeaton vs. Lynn.]

speefed this debt, the money into which the trust property
had beeii converted, and which remained in the hands of Wise's
executor, became a part of Wise's estate, and consequently
were assets subject to this debt. The payment of this money
to Robert Young was rightful if ffiade by the executor; and
being part of the funds of -the estate ought to enure to the
benefit of the estate.. We think, therefore, that the action is
sustainable in the name of the executor.
The fotm in.which the question on the case is submitted to
the court, strengthens this opinion. It assumes that the money for which the suit was brought omposed a part of the
assets, and had been appropriated under the decree of the court
to satisfy the debt due to Robert Young.
The plaintiff in errgr further contends, that this judgment
ought to be reversed, because the letters testamentary granted
to Adam Lynn were revoked by the orphan's court of Alexandria before it was rendered.
The powers of - he orphan's court of Alexandria are made
by act of congress identical with the powers of an orphan's
court under the laws of Maryland. It is a court of limited
jurisdiction, and is authorized to revoke letters testamentary
in two cases; a failure to return an inventory; gr to account.
The proceedings against Adam Lynn' were not founded on
either of these omissions. A petition was filed by his sureties, stating their apprehension of loss from their suretyship,
:and praying that the proper measures might be taken for their
'ielief. 'The appropriate remedy given by the law in such
case, is to require counter security, and, on the failure of the
--executor to give it, to take the estate out of his hands and place
it in the hands of his sureties. The statute forbids the judge to
,exercise any implied power. On the failure of the executor
in this case to give counter security, the judge, instead of
making the order prescribed by the act, revoked the letters
-testamentary. Some of the judges are of opinion that the
orphan's court transcended its powers, and. that the judgment
-of revocation is void. It is unnecessary to decide this point,
because we are all of opinion that, as the issue tried by the
jury was on the plea of non assumpsit; as the plaintiff was incontestably -exegutor when this "suit was brought and when
that issue was joined, and *could rightfully maintain this ac-'

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[Yeaton vs. Lynn.]

tion; as the revocation of the executorship was not brought
before the court by a plea since the last continuance, as it
might have been; the defendant is to be considered as waving
the defence, and resting his cause on the general issue. There
is the more reacon for supposing that the defendant Yeaton
made this election, because a plea since the last continuance'
waves the issue previously joined, and puts the cause on that
plea. It is alsb remarkable that the case qgreed states expressly that letters testamentary were granted to Adam Lynn,
but does not state the revocation of those letters. The proceedings of the orphan's court are referred to generally.
It is not doubted that this revocation might have been
pleaded, and we think it ought to have been pleaded, in order
to bring the fact judicially to the view of the circuit cQurt.
It ought to appear upon the record that judgment was given
against the plaintiff in that court, because he was no longer
executor of John Wise; and not because the defendant was not
indebted to the estate of Wise, and had not made the assumpsit mentioned in the declaration.
The rule is general, that a plea in bar admits the ability of
the plaintiff to sue; and, if the parties go to trial'on that issue,
the presumption is reasonable tbatthis admission continues..
In principle this case is.not unlike a, suit -brought by, an administrator, during the minority of the executor. His power
as administrator is determined when the executor has attained
his full age; and the fact that he has iiot attained his full age
must be averred in the declaration. But if this averment be
omitted, and the defendant pleads in bar, he admits the ability
of the plaintiff to sue, and thejudgment is not void. 5 Cow.
Dig. title Plead. 2 D. 10, 267. The inference that he could
not be permitted to give this fact in evidence is very strong.
A distinction seems to be taken between an action brought
by a person who has no right to sue, and an action brought by
a person capable of suing at the time, but who becomes incapable while it is depending. In the first case the plaintiff may
be non suited at the trial; in the last the disability must be
pleaded. I Chitty ori Pleading, 437, Am. Ed. 319. 4 T. R.
361. 3 T. R. 631.
The rule is, that "when matter of defence has arisen after
the commencement of a suit, it cannot be pleaded in bar.of the

SUPREME COURT.
[Yeaton vs. Lynn.]

action generally, but must, when it has arisen before plea or
continuance, be pleaded as to the further maintenance .of the
suit; and when 'it has arisen after issue joined, .puis darreir
continuance." 1 Chitty, 635, Am. Ed. 456.
it may safely, be affirmed, that a fact which destroys the action, if it cannol be pleaded in bar, cannot be given ih evidence on a plea in bar to which it has no relation. This is
decided in 7 Johnson, 194.
"If any matter of defence has arisen after an issue in fact,
it may be pleaded by thd defendant; as that the plaintiff has
given him a telease;" "or in an action by an administrator,
that the plaintiff's letters of administration have been revoked."
In Stonnei vs. Gibbons, Moore, 871, an action of debt was
brought against an administrator, and pending the action, after
demurrer joined, the letters of administration were repealed.
The court refused to allow this matter to be pleaded after demurrer, though it might after issue joined. The distinction
between allowing the plea after demurrer and after issue, is
not now sustained; but certainly the defence could n6t have
been received, as the plea was disalloved.
Upon this point the court is unanimous. We are all of opinion that the revocation of the letters testamentary not hdving
been pleaded; could not be given in evidence. The judgment
is affirmed with costs, and damages at the rate of six per cent
per annum.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the circuit court of the United States for the district of Columbia, holden in and for the county of Alexandria,
and was argued by counsel; on consideration whereof, it is
considered, ordered and adjudged, by this court, that the judgment of the said circuit court in this cause be, and the same
is hereby affirmed, with costs and damages at the rate of six
per centum per annum.

