SUPREME COURT.

CLEMENT SMITH, ADMINISTRATOR oF SAMUEL ROBERTS0N,
DECEASED, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR v)8. THE PRESIDENT AND

DIRECTORS OF THE UgioN BANK oF GzORGEToWi,
FENDANT IN ERROR.

DE-

Robertson was domiciliated at Norfolk in Virginia, and there contracted a debt on
bond to T. He was also indebted to the Union Bank of Georgetown, in the
district of Columbia, on simple contract. He died intestate at Bedford in Penn-

sylvania; leaving personal estate in the city of Washington, in the district of
Columbia, of which administration was there granted. By the laws of Maryland, all debts are of equal dignity in administration, and by the laws of
Virginia, where R. was domiciliated, debts on bond are preferred. The as-

sets in the hands of the administrator were insufficient to discharge the bond
and simple contract debts. Held: that the effects of the intestate, in the hands
of the administrator, are to be distributed among his creditors according to
the laws of Maryland, and not according to the laws of Virginia.

ERROR to the circuit court 6f the district of Columbia, for
the county of Washington.
This case came before the circuit court on the following case
agreed.
"Samuel Robertson, a native of the state of Maryland, a
purser in the navy of the United States, and as such purser,
for several years before hid death, stationed and domiciliated at
Norfolk, in the state of Virginia, died, in the year 182 , .at
Bedford, in Pennsylv.ania, intestate, insolvent; whitherhehad
gone on a visit for the benefit of his health. He was at the time
of his death indebted to the plaintiffs, residing in the district of
Columbia, on simple contract, 'not under seal, entered into
here in the sum of tweiity-two hundred and twenty-eight
dollars, with legal interest thereon from the 3d November
1818 till paid; which sum of monet and interest still remain
due and unpaid: and the said Robertson, at the time of his
death, was also indebted to Thompson, residing in Virginia,
upon contracts'and bonds under seal, entered into in the state
of Virginia, in a sum exceeding the whole amount of assets in
the hands of the defendant, as administrator as aforesaid. The
said Robertson, at the time of his death, was possessed of personal assets in Washington county, in this district. The defendant, Cle nent Smith, took out letters of administration

JANUARY TERM 1831.
tSmnith, Administrator vs. The Union Bank of Georgetown.)j

upon his estate in this county, and has collected in this county, and now holds in his bands as admini.strator, the sum of
eight thousand three hundred and ninety dollars one and a
half cents.
' The plaintiffs claim a dividend of the assets, according to
the laws of administration in force in this county. the defendant resists payment upon the ground of the debt due to said
Thompson, who claims a priority as creditor upon the said
sealed contracts, and~that the assets must be paid away to the
creditors pursuant to the laws in force in Virginia. If the
court are of opinion that the assets are to be administered, as to
creditors, according to the laws in force in this county, then
judgment to be entered for the plaintiffs for the amount of,
their debt aforesaid, to bind assets in the hands of defendant,
C. Smith, the administrator: if otherwise, then judgment of
non pross.'
Upon this case the circuit court gave judgment for the
plaintiff; and the defendant prosecuted this writ of error.
The case was argued by Mr Coxe and Mr Lear, for the
plaintiff in error; and by Mr Key and Mr Dunlop for the defendants.
For the plaintiff in error it was stated, that the whole
question in the case is, whether the law of the place, where
the funds for distribution are found at the decease of the intestate, or the law of the domicil shall regulate and govern the
distribution of these effects.
For the plaintiff in error it was contended, that the law upon
this question has been settled in England and in the United
States; and the principle so established is, that the law of the
domicil is to govern. It is therefore according to the law of
Virginia, where by the case stated the intestate had his domicil, that the administrator, the plaintiff, must pay the debts of
the intestate. The funds in the hands of the administrator arc
the moneys received from the treasury of the United States,
for a debt due to Robertson, as a purser in the navy; the same
being the balgnce of hig accounts as settled at the treasury.
This question is to be settled by'. a reference to adjudged
cases, and a careful investigation of what has been decided;
rather than by an argument upoo general principles. It is im-.
portant thit the rule shall be settled; the whole community is

SUPREME COURT.
[Smith, Administrator vs. The Union Bank of Georgetown.]

interested in its being fixed and determined; and the case now
before the court affords an obcasion for its final decision.
It is contended that the decisions of the courts of equity
have uniformly sustained the principle, that the law of the
domicil governs the distribution. The cases arranged chronologically are: Ambler, 25, decided in 1774; Ambler, 415, decided in 1762; 2 Ves. Sen. 35, decided 1750; 2 Bos. and
Pull, 229, decided in 1790; 1 Hen. Black. 665, decided in
1791; 2 Hen. Black. 402, decided in 1795; 5 Ves. Jun. 750,
'decided in 1800.
The following cases show that the courts of England
sustain the law of the domicil in bankrupt cases in other
countries against their own attachment laws. 1 Hen. Black.
131 and 132. In these cases, English creditors attached debts
due in England to one who was a bankrupt in Holland, and
the attachments were not sustained. So also in Hunter vs.
Potts, 4 Durnford and East. 182, a bankruptcy in Rhode
Islanad was held to vest in the assignees a debt due to the bankrupt in England
The following cases upon this point have been decided in
the United States: 1 Mason's Rep. 410; 8 Mass. Rep. 506;
11 Mass. Rep. 256.
The case of Harvey vs. Richards, 1 Mason, 410, is considered as establishing-the principle claimed by the plaintiff in error. The question in that case was, whether the circuit court
of Massachusetts district, on its chancery.side, bad power to
decide wbetber the fund in Massachusetts should be sent to
India to be distributed; or should be distributed, by that court
according to the law of India.
The other American cases are Harrison vs. Sherry, 5 Cranch,
289; 2 Peters's Cond Rep. 260; Dixon's Executors vs. Ramsay's Executors, 3 Cranch, 323; 1 Peters'i Cond. Rep. 547;
The Adeline, 9 Cranch's Rep-244; 3 Peters's Cond. Rep.
397; The Star, 3 Wheat. 74; The Mary and Susan, 1
Wheat. 66, 56; 3 Peters's Cpnd. Aep. 480; 4 Mass. Rep.
318; 1 Binney, 336. Also cited, 6 Bro.Parl. Cases, 550, 577;
Cooper's Equity Plead. 123; 3 Eden's Chan. Rep. 210; 11
Mas-. Rep. 256, 257; 2 Haggard's Rep. 59.
It is admitted, in some of the cases cited, that the courtesy
of nations requires the adoption of this principle. If this is

JANUARY TERM 1831:
[Smith, Administrator vs. The Union Bank of Georgetown.]

so between foreign states, there is a much stronger policy for
its adoption between our own states.
It is asked, may not the law of distribution of Virginia be
considered as part of the contract? It is with a view to the
laws of the country in which all contracts are erntered into,
that their obligations areassumed; and for which the parties
look for the effect and the extent of the contracts they enter
into.
The counsel for the plaintiff in error also contended, that
personal property has no situs, but follows the domicil of 'the
party entitled to it. This is not a new principle; but is recognised to thd full extent in the cases cited from 1 Mason, 381;
and 2 Cranch, 323.
Mr Key and Mr Dunlop, for the defendants in error.
They stated that this isa case of a foreign crdditr coming
into our courts, under tie.lex loci of the.contract; or of the domicil, and claiming to take out of the jurisdiction of the court
the whole effects of a deceased debtor, domiciled abroad: although there are creditors here, for debts contracted here;
an4 tie effects are found here, and are in the course of administration. The municipal law is against this claim;, and it
is to be sustained by national comity, which is to overthrow
our own laws, and destroy rights derived under them; and
make our own courts subservient to this injustice.
1. Does the lex loci contractus authorize -he clain in this
case?
It is admitted that contracts are to be expounded according
to the law of the place where they are made; but it is equally
true, that the reme4y for the breach of such a contract is regulated by the lex fori.
The priority of payment claimed for the Virginia creditors
is not-of the essence of the contract; -but is collateral and con-'
tingent, depending on the death' of the debtor, and exists
only when the debtor is insolvent. This is the view of the
law expressed by the chief justiic of this court, in the case of
Harrison vs. Sterry, 5 Cranch, 289. In Maryland no such pfiority is given, and "the law of the forum must govern.
2. It is said, that'the lex loci domicilii is to decide this case;
that personal effects'have no situs, and follow mhe person; and
VOL. V.--3 Q

SUPREME COURT.
ESmith, Administrator vs. The Union Bank of Georgetown.]

that this principle is founded on the law and practice of nations. The general rule may be in favour of the position of
the plaintiff in error, but when its application would affect the
rights of a third person, ascertained and secured to him by the
laws of his country, and which are in opposition to the foreign
law, they do not prevail: when there is such a conflict, the
domestic laws, and'not those which are foreign, will operate,
Fonb. Equity, 444. No case can be found to sustain a principle of a different character. Potter vs. Brown, 5 East, 131.
Hunter v. Potter, 4 Term Rep. 183. 1 Hen. Black. 696. 2
Hen. Black. 402. 4 Johns. Rep. 478, 479,488,471,472.
It was- also contended that the laws of foreign domicil never
have been applied to the payment of debts. They only govern
the surplus remaining after the debts of the intestate have been
fully paid. They operate on what he had a right to dispose of in
his life time; and that being left at his death, comity gives the
disposal of this to the laws of his country. As to the surplus
after the payment of the debts, the country where the goods
are found have no interest in its distribution. The rights of
its citizens cannot be affected by its appropriation, and it is
but proper that it should be given up to the lpx loci rei sito.
Legatees and distributees claim from the bounty of their testator or the intestate; and the laws which governed their benefactor should regulate their rights and claims. He is supposed
to have known those laws, and to have intended they should
operate on his property. But 'creditors do not stand in the
same relation to those laws. Their rights are to look to their
own laws, and to their own courts, by which their contracts
shall be construed and enforced ; and for the appropriation and
distribution of the funds which shall be within the power of
their laws. -It is inquired, would the bond debt of the Virginia creditor be a bar to a suit by the Union Bank against
Robertson, if he were alivoJ! Would it dissolve in attachment
laid on his effects here?
'The administrator of Robertson may be obliged to bring
suits here for the recovery of debts dud to the estate; and un,
der what law shall he proceed? Why shall not the same rul
apply in prosecuting a suit, which prevails in defending it.
'There-is no conflict of laws in this case. The Virginia statute of distribution is the English statute. Was-the English

JANUARY TERM 181.
[Smith, Administrator vs. The Union Bank of Georgetown.].

statute ever extended to any other country than England, but
by express adoption ? The statute of Virginia applies to different persons, and to a different state of things from that of
Maryland; and therefore there is no conflict. ' Cited, 2 Fonb.
444. Huberus, B. 1. Tit. 3, see. 9. 5 East, 131. Willison
v. Watkins, 3 Peters, 43. 2 Harris and Johns. 224. 4 Mass.
Rep. 318. 11 Mass. Rep. 256,264. 6Binney, 361. 2Kent's
Com. 344. 3 Caines, 154. 1Har. andM'Hen.'236. Beawes'
Lex. Merc. 499. Insolvent Law 6f Maryland of 1798, chap.
101, sect. 2, 3. 4 Johns. C. R. 460. 1 Johns. C. R. 118.
Mr Justice JoHNsoN delivered the opinion of the Court.
The judgment below is rendered upon an agreed case, on:
which the following state of facts is exhibited.
The defendant's testator was domiciled at Norfolk, in Virginia; at which place he contracted a debt on bond to one
Thompson. He was also indebted to the -Union Bank, the
defendant in error, on simple contract. He died at Bedford
in Pennsylvania, and the defendant Smith administerea on
his estate in the county of Washington, in this district. Robertson at the time of his death was possessed of personal
assets in the county of Washington; 'tnd the administrator,
having reduced these assets into possession, now holds them
subject to his debts.
By the laws of Maryland, which govern the county of
Washington, all debts are of equal dignity in administration:
but by the laws of Virginia, the country of Robertson's domicil, bond debts have preference, and the assets are insufficient
to satisfy both. The question then is whether the bond debt
shall take precedence, or come in average with the simple
contract debts.
On the bearing of the lex loci contractus, on this question,
nothing need be added to the doctrine of the chief justice of
this court in the case of Harrison vs. Sterry, to wit: " the
law of the place where the contract is made is, generally
speaking, the law of the contract; that is, the law by which'
the contract is expounded. But the right of priority forms no
part of the contract itself."
The passage which follows these words in the same opinion
will present, in as succinct a form as they need be stated, the
propositions on the correctness of which the decision of this

SUPREME COURT.
[Smitb, Administrator vs. The Union-Bank-of Georgetown.]

cause must, mainly, depend. It is in these terrihs: "It (the
right of priority) is intrinsic, and rather a personal privilege
dependant on the law of the place where the property lies,'
and where the court sits, which is to decide the cause. In
the familiar case of the administration of the estate of a deceased person, the assets are always distributed according to
the dignity of the debt as regulated by the law of the country,
where the representative of the deceased acts, and from which
he derives his power."
The argument urged against this doctrine is, that personal
property has no situs; that it follows the law of the person;
and that there is no other rule that can give uniformity and
consistency toits admigistra ion.
In support of this arguiment, great.industry has been exhibited in collecting and collating the cases which relate to the
distribution of intestates' effects, and the execution of the British bankrupt law; and analogy, it is insisted, requires the application of the rule of those cases to that of the payment of
debts.
With regard to the first class of cases, we expect to be understood as not intending to dispose of them, directly, or incidentally. Whenever a case arises upon the distribution of an
intestate's effects exhibiting a conflict between the laws of the
domicil and those of the situs, it will be time enough to give

the views of this court on the law of that case.

And as the

eases in which the British courts have asserted a power over
the effects of a bankrupt, the situs of which placed them beyond the action of their bankrupt laws, we aie not aware of
;ny instance in which they have gone farther than to treat
tHat power as an incident to thejurisdiction of these laws over
their own subjects. As in the instance in which a British
subject had by process of.law in this country possessed him-,
self of the effects of a British bankrupt to the prejudice of the
other creditors. That there is no violation of prinpiple in
doing this, is fully affirmed in the same case of Harrison va.
Sterry; in which this government, and this court, availed
themselves of jurisdiction in fact over the effects of a foreigi
bankrupt, so as.to subject them to the priority given by our
laws to the debts due our government. Each government thus
asserting the power ok its own laws over the subject matter,
when within its control.

JANUARY TERM 1831.
(Smith, Administrator vs. The Union Bank of Georgetown.]

That personal property has no situs, seems rather a-metaphysical position than a practical and legal truth. We are
now considering the subject with regard to subjecting such
property to the payment of debts, through the medium of letters of administration. And here there is much reason for
maintaining, that even the common law has given it'i situs, by
reference to any circumstances which mark it locally with discrimination and precision.
Thus in the case of Byron vs. Byron, Hil. 38 Elizab. Cro.
472, Anderson, chief justice, says, "the debt is where the
bond is, being upon a specialty, but debt upon contracf follows
the person of the debtor; and this difference has been oftentimes agreed." So Godolphin lays down the same distinction,
as established law. Orphan's Legacy, 70. And S*inburn
lays down the same rule with still greater precision, as well
against the effect of domicil as of the place of contract. For
he says, "debt shall be accounted goods, as to the granting ot
administration, where the bond was at his (creditor's) death,
not where it was made." And again: "debts due the testator will make bona.notabilia as well as goods in possession;
but there is a difference between bonds and specialties, and
debts due on simple contracts: for bond debts make bona notabilia, where the bonds or other specialties are at the time
of the death of him whose they are, and not where he dwelt
or died. But debts on simple contracts are bona notabilia in
that country where the debtor dwells." Part 6,ch. 11. And
so of judgments, locality is given them by the situs of the
court where. they are entered. Carthew, .149; 3 Mod.
324; 1 Salk. 40; Dyer, 305; 1 Roll. Abr. 908; 1 Plow.
25; Carthew, 373; Comb. 392; are cited for these distinctions.
It is not unworthy of remark, that in almost every treaty
between civilized nations, we find an article stipulating for
permission to remove the goods of a deceased subject to the
country of his domicil. And from the generality of the stipulation, it would seem to be intended for the purpose of subjecting the goods to the law-of the deceased's country or domicil, even as to their applicatiotl to the payment of debt. There
is the more reason to believe this with regard to our own treaties, since there are two instances in which the generality of
that provision is deviated from; the one in favour of the pay-

SUPREME COURT.
[Smith, Administrator vs. The Union Bank of Georgetown.]

ment of debts due where the goods are, and the other subjecting the iight of property to the law of the situs. I.mean
the French consular convention of 1788, by the 5th article of
which it is expressly stipulated, that goods shall be subjected
to the payment of debts due in the foreign coantry. And
both our treaties with Prussia contain a stipulation in the 10th.
article, "that -fquestions shall arise among several claimants
to which of them the said goods belong) the same shall be
decided finally by the laws and judges of the land wherein
the said goods are."
It would seem that such a provision would be wholly unnecessary, if there existed any established rule of internatiojial
law by whieh-ffie law of the domicil could be enforced in this
regard, in the country of the situs. Or, if the fact of locality
did not subject the goods to the laws of the government under
which they were found at the party's death.
.In point of fact it cannot be questioned, that goods thus
found within the limits of a sovereign's jurisdiction, are subject to his iaws; it wQuld be an absurdity in terms to affirm
the contrary. Eventhe person of an ambassador is exempted
from jurisdiction, only by an established exceptien from the
general principle. And the onus lies certainly upon those who
argue here for the precedence of the law of the domicil, to establish a similar exception in favour of foreign debts.
But if we 1ook into books, we do not find it there; for it is an
acknowledged doctrine, that in conflicts of rights, those arising
under our own laws, if not superseded in point of time, shall take
precedence, 441majus jus nostrum quam jus alienum servemus.
The obligation of the sovereign to enforce his own laws,-and
'protect his own subjects, is acknowledged to be paramount.
If we look into facts, we find no evidence there to sustain
such an exception; for every sovereign has his own'code of
administration, varying to infinity as to the order of paying
debts; arid almost without an-exception, asserting the right to
be himselffirst paid outof the assets. And the obligation in the
administrator to conform to sueh- laws, is very generally enforced not only by a bond, but an oath; both of'-which must
rest for their efficacy on the laws of the state which requires
them. On'what pirhifiple, then, shall we insert into all those
laws an amendment iiifavour of foreign creditors, no where to

SANUARY TERM .1831.
[Smith, Administrator vs..The Union Bank of Georgetown;]

be found in their provisions; and in many ifistances operatingas a repeal of or proviso to their enactments-?
Nor will the search after the exception under consideration
be attended with any greater success, if extended to the reason
and policy of -laws.
Property, palpably and visiblypossessed, is calculated rather
more certainly to give credit, than actual residence. The inhabitant 6f- a northern or eastern state may be largely interested as a planter in the south, or in Cuba; his agent may
there, with or without express instruction, fiave obtained extensive credits for subsistence or improvements, expended'upon
the very property itself: when, upon the death"of the proprietor, his estate may turn out insolvent; and, insolvent from
debts or speculations at the place of his domicil. What greater
reason can in such a state of things be urged) in favour of the
debts qf his domicil, than what applies to those of the situs of
his property P But the reason of the thing may be followed
out a little farther. Contracts contra bonos mores, or against
the policy or laws of a state, will not be enforced in the courts
of that state, though lawful in the state, in which they are entered into. Suppose, then, a bond given for the purchase of
slave were postponed or held void under the laws of the deceased's domicil, though otherwise in the country of.tlie situ&
of his property, what reason would there be in referring the
creditor to the law of the domicil ? Or, rather, what iniquity
in confining him to it?
The actual couise of legislative action in every civilized
country, upon the effects of deceased persons, seems wisely
calculated to guard against the embarrassments arising out of
such conflicts, and to preserve in their own hands the nieans of
administering justice, according to their own laws and ibstitutions. It has been solemnly adjudged in this court, and is-the
general principle in perhaps every state in -the union, that
one administering in one state cannot bring suit in the courts.
of another state. 'This necessity of administering, where the
debt is .o be recovered, effectually'places the application of the
proceeds under the control of the laws of the state of, he administration. And if, in any instance, the rule is deviated from,
it foinas, pro hac, an exception; a voluntary relinquishment of
a right, countenanced by universal practice; and is of the eha-

SUPREME COURT.
[Smith, Administrator vs. The Union Bank of Georgetown.]

racter of the treaty stipulations already remarked upon, by
which foreign nations surrender virtually a right, which locality
certainly puts in their power.
Whether it would or would not be politic to establish a
different rule by a convention of the states, under constitutional.
sanction, is not a question for our consideration. But such
an arrangement could only be carried into effect by a reciprocal relinquishment of the right of granting administration to
the country of the domicil of the deceased exclusively, and
the mutual concession of the right to the administrator, so constituted, to prosecute suits every where, in virtue of the power
s o locally granted him; both. of which concessions would
most materially interfere with the exercise of sovereign right,
as at present generally asserted. and exercised.
There is no error, iherefore, in the judgment below, and the
same is affirmed, with costs.
Mr Justice Baldwin dissented from the opinion and judgment of the court.

