248

SUPREME COURT.

THP&LEsSoR -orJoHN FisHEn, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR Vs. WILLIAM COCXQRELL, DEPENDANT IN ERROR.
After a judgment for the plaintiff in ejectment in the union circuit court of the
state of Kentucky, a haberefaciaspossessionem was awarded, and on the succeeding day, on motion of the defendant, commissioifiers were appointed by the
court, according to the provisions of the occupying claimants law of Kentucky, to assess the damages and waste committed by the defendant, and the
value of the improvements made on the land. The commissioners valued
tha improvements at one thousand three hundred and fifty dollars. .F.
did not appear on the return of the inquisition, and judgment was rendered
against him for the sum so reported. Afterwards F. tendered a bill of exceptions, stating that "he moved the court to quash the report of the commissioners appointed to value the improvements, assess the damages, &c. but
the court refused to quash the same," to which opinion he excepted, and appealed to the court of appeals. A citation was issued by the clerk of the court
of appeals, which was -served. In that court among others, F. assigned, as
error, "the plaintiff deriving his title from Virginia, the act or acts of the state
of Kentucky, on which the court has founded its opinion, is repugnant to the
compact with Virginia, therefore void as to the case before the court, being
against the constitution of the United States."
To bring a case within the protection of the seventh article in the compact between Virginia and Kentucky, it must be shown that the title to the land asserted is derived from the laws of Virginia, prior to the separation of the two
states.
The clerk of the union circuit court certifies that certain documents were read
in evidence, and among them a patent under which F. caimed, issued by
the governor of Kentucky, founded on rights derived from the laws of Virginia. This court cnnot notice this patent; it cannot be considered a part of
the record.
In cases at common law, the course of the court has been uniform, not to consider any paper as part of the record, which is not made so by the pleadings,
or by some opinion of the court referring to it. This rule is common to all
courts exercising appellate jurisdiction, according to the course of the common law. The appellate court cannot know what evidence was given to the
jury, unless it is spread on the record in proper legal manner. The unauthorized certificate of the clerk, that a'ny document was read, or any evidence
given to the jury, cannot make that document or that evidence a part of the
record, so as to bring it to the cognizance of this court. The court cannot perceive from the record in the ejectment cause that the plaintiff in error claimed
tnder a title derived from the laws of Virginia. It therefore cannot judicially
know that this suit was not a contest betweeh two citizens claiming entirely
under the laws of the state of Kentucky. When the record of the onion circuit
court was transferred to the court of appeals, the course of that court requires
that the appellant or the plaintiff in- error shall assign the errors on which lie
means to rely. The assignment in that court contains the first intimation
that the title was derived from Virginia, and that the plaintiff in error relied on

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[Lessor of Fisher vs. Cockerell.]
the compact-between those states. But this assignment does not introduce
the error into the record, or In any manner alter it. The court of appeals was
not confined to the, inquiry whether the error assigned was valid in point of
law. The preliminary inquiry was, whether it existed in the record. • If upon
examining the record, that court could not discover that the plaintiff had asserted any right or interest in land derived from the laws of Virginia; the question
whether the occupying claimants' law had violated the compact between the
states could not arise.
, the viewv whirh has been taken of the record by the court, It does not snow
that the compact with Virginia was involred in the case. Consequently, the
question whether the act for the benefit of occupying claimants was valid, does
not appear to have arisen; and nothing is shown on the record, which can give
jurisdiction to this court.
A review ot-the cases of Harris vs. Dennie, 3 Peters, 292. Craig and others
vs. The State of Missouri, 4 Peters, 410. Owing vs. Norwood, 5 Cranch, 344,
2 Peters's Cond. Rep. 275. Miller vs. Nicholls, 4 Wheat. 312.
In the argument the court has been admonished of the jealousy, with which the
states of the union view the revising power eutrusted by the constitution and
laws of the United States to this tribunal. To observations of this character the
answer uniformly given has been, that the course of the judicial department
Is marked out by law: we must tread the direct and narrow path prescribed for
us. As this court has never grasped at ungranted jurisdiction, so it will never,
we trust, shrink from the exercise of that which is conferred upon it,

THI.wps a writ of Error to the court of appeals of the state
of Kentucky; to review a decision of that court, affirming a

judgment of the Union county circuit-court of that state, involving the validity of a law of the state of Kentucky, called the
special occupying claimant law.
The action of ejectment was commenced in the circuit court
At Septeiiiber
of Union county, on the 20th of May 1822.
term 1822, William Cockerell, the defendant, appeared, and
at his instance, as well as of the plaintiff, an order of survey

was passed, requiring the surveyor to lay off the land in controversy, as either party should require.
The plaintiff in'the ejectment, after the filing of his declaration, at September term 1822, had leave to withdraw the

title papers filed by him; for the purpose of the survey, as was

presumed.
At June term 1823 a verdict and judgment was rendered

for the plaintiff on the demise of John Fisher, the plaintiff in
error. On the other counts in the declaration, which'btated
other demises, a verdict and judgment was entered for the

defendant.
VOL. V.-

G

SUPREME COURT.
[Lessor of Fisher vs. Cockerell.]

The record specifies the written evidence in the cause as
follows:
"The following patent was the only paper read in evidence
in this cause. The following deeds, to wit, John Fisher to
Frederick R~dgeley and Frederick Ridgeley and wife to
James MoTison; were filed among the papers but rejected
by the court, and so marked by the court, to wit." The patent
and deeds, so referred to, are then set out in the transcript.
The patent purports to have been issued in the usual form,
under *theseal of the commonwealth of Kentucky, abd the
hand of the governor, duly countersigned by the secretary of
state, on the 15th of June 1802; and "that by virtue-and in
consideration of three military warrants, No. 1115, 1125. and
1153, and entered the 21st of July 1784, there is granted by
the said commonwealth unto John Fisher (habendum to him
and his heirs forever), a certain tract or parcel of land containing six hundred acres, by survey hearing date the 23d ot
May 1785, lying and being in the district set apart for the
officers- and soldiers of 'the Virginia continental line on the
Ohio," &c. The metes and bounds of the granted lands are,
then specially, set out in the patent.
The two deeds referred to having been rejected as evidence,
fok some reason not, stated, but to be inferred from the informality of their authentication, and iaconsequence the issue
on the two counts which those documents were adduced to
support having been found for the defendant. it is unnecessary
to state their contents.' The recovery was upon the title of
the original patentee, John Fisher, alone.
The court then proceeded., on the motion of defendant, to
appoint commissioners (in virtue and execution of the state
law), "to go on the land from which the defendant hAs been
evicted in this action, and make assessment of what damage
and waste the defendanthas committed since the 20th of May
182Z (when the suit was commenced), and the rent and profit
accruing since the 17th of June 1822 (the day of appearance
to the action), and the value of improvements made on, said
land, and of the Value of said land atthe time of such assessment, egarding it as if such improvement had never been
made."
The report of the commissioners was returned to March

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[Lessor of Fisher vs. Cockerell.]

term 1824, in which they say "that there.has been no injury
or waste done upon the premises by the occupant since the
20th of June 1823; and they assess the iinprovemenfs made
on the premises as follows:"
Clearing and enclosing forty-six acres of land, at twenty
dollars per acre,

-

-

920

-

Dwelling house and various farm buildings,

-

430

1,350
For this suni the court gave judgment against the plaintiff;
who moved to quash the said report, and reserved a bill of
exception to the refusal of the court so to quash.
Upon this last judgment the plaintiff sued out a writ of error
to the court. of appeals in Kentucky, and made a special
assignment of the errors complained of, pursuant to the law
and practice of that court. The error assigned.was "the
plaintiff deriving title from Virginia, the act or acts of the state
of Kentuc]ky on which this court has founded its opinion, is
repugnant as to the compact with Virginia; therefore void as
to the case before the court, being against the constitution of
the United States."
The court of appeals airmed the judgment of the circuit
court of Union county, and the plaintiff prosecuted this writ
of error.
Mr Wickliffe. for the defendant in error, moved to dismiss
the writ of error, for want of jurisdiction in this court.
He contended that the ease presented by the record did not
give the court jurisdiction under the twenty-fifth section of the
judicial act of 1789. It is a-writ of error to a-state court, and
there is nothing on the face of the proceedings to show that
the construction of an act of congress, or the obligation of -a
contract, was brought into question in that court.
The record does not show the particular point decided by
the state court; and this court cannot look at the reasoning of
that court in giving its decision to ascertain the same. The
jurisdiction must be determined by the record. Inglee w.
Cooledge, 2 Wheaton, 363. It is denied that the title papers
are by the law of Kentucky required to be recorded in an action at law. This requisition is confined to -proceedings in
chancery.

i SUPREME COURT.
[Lessor of Fiaher of. CockerelL]

The question in the otate court was. whether a law of Kentuaky of. 1820. or 1823, was in force.. The act of 1820 was
repealed before this suit was brought, and no judgment of the
state court was given whether the act of 1820 was void or
not. Cited 1 Bibb, 442. 2 Bibb, 2M6, 292, 331. 3 Mon.
Rep. 202, 128. - Mar. Rep. 431.
Mr Jones for the plaintiff in error.
The patent shows the title of the plaintiff was derived from
the state of Virginia, and the patent is properly on the record.
Jtisdhe duty of the cleik, and is so made y law, to record all
the title papers introduced iu evidence; andunder this requisition of the law the patent is made part of the record. Cited.as to
jurisdietionn, Craig et al. vs. The state ofMissour;, 4 Peters, 420.
The title.of the plaintiff-being shown by the patent to rest
on a patent fom Virginia, his rights to protertion under the
compact ate manifest; and he is entitled to the benefit of the
decision. of this coutt in Green vs. Biddle, 8 Wheaton, 1.
Mfr Chief'Justice MARSHALL delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is a writ of error to a judgment of the court of appeals of Kentucky, affirming a judgment of the Union' oirciit
court of that state.
The plaintiff brought an ejectment in-the Union circuit
court against the defendnt, and in June term 1823 6btained
judgment; on which a writ of. habere facias pose*ionem
was'awarded. On the succeeding day it was ordered on the
inxttion of the defendant, "that Josiah Will ima and others be,
and they are hereby appointed commissioners, who'-or any five,
of whom, being- first sworn, do, on the - second, Saturday in
3uly next, go on the lands from which' the said defendant bas
been evicted in that action, and made assesament pf what
damage and waste the said defendant- has committed since the
20th of May 1822, and the rent and profit accruing since the
17th of June 1823, and of the value of improvements made
on said land at the time of such assessment, regarding it as if
such improvement had not been made; all which they shall
separately and distinctly specify, and report to the next term
of this court, until which time this motion is continued."

JANUARY TERM 1831.
ELessor of Fisher vs. Cockerell.]

The report of the commissioners- was made to the Sdptember term following, and was continued. On the 15th of Mar,' h
1824 it was, on the motion of the defendant, ordered to be
recorded. The improvements were valued at one thousand
three hundred and fifty dollars. John Fisher, the plahiniff in
the ejectment, and defendant on this motion, did-not, appear;
and judgment was rendered against him for the sum reported
to be due for itnprovements. Afterwards, to wit, on the 20th
of the same month, the said Fisher appeared and tendered
the following bill of exceptions, which was signed: " be it
remembered, that in this cause the defendant moved the court
to quash the report of the commissioners appointed to value
the improvements, assess the damages, &c., but the court refused to quash the same, to which opinion of the court the
defendant excepts," &c. The said Fisher then appealed to
the court of appeals.
A citation was issued by the clerk of the court or appeals,
which was served. Among the errors assigned by the plaintiff in error was the following: "The plaintiff deriving title
from Virginia, the act or acts of the state of Kentucky on
which this court has founded its opinion is repugnant as to the
compact with Virginia; therefore void as to the case before
the court, being against the constitution of the United
States."
The cause was argued in the court of appeals in June 1827,
and the judgment of the circuit court was affirmed. That
judgment is now brought before this court by a writ of error.
The seventh article of the compact between Virginia and
Kentucky is in,these words. " That all private rights and
interests of lands within the said district, derived from the
laws of Virginia, pior to such separation, shall remain valid
and secure under the laws of the proposed state, and shall be
determined by the laws now existing in this state."
This is the article, the violation of which is alleged by the
plaintiff in error. To bring his case wlthin its rotection, he
must show thatthe title he asserts is derived from the laws
of Virginia prior to the separatioi of the two states. If the
title be not so derived, the compact does not extend to it; and
,the plaitiff alleges no other error.
The judgment in the ejebtment is rendered on a general yerdict, and the title of the plaintiff is not made a part of the

SUPREME COURT.
[Lessor of Fisher vs. CockerelL]

record by a bill of-exceptions, or in any other manner. The
clerk certifies that certain documents were. read in evidence
on the triaL and among these is the patent under which, the
plaintiff claimed. This patent was issued by the governor of
Kentucky; and is founded onyights derived from the -laws of
Virginia. Can the court notice it? Can it be considered as
part of the record.
In cases atcommon law, the course of the court has been
uniform not to consider any paper as part of the record which
is not made so by the pleadings,_ or 'by some opinion of the
court referring to it. This rule is common to all courts eXerelsing appellate jurisdiction, according to the.qourse.of. the
common law. The appellate court cannotknowwhat evideire
was given to the jury, unless it be spread on the record in
proper legal manner. The unauthorized certificate of, the
clerk that any. document was read, or any evidence given, to
the jury,-cannot make that document or that evidencea part of
the record, so as to bring it to the cognizance of this court.
We cannot perceive, then, from the record in the ejectment
caused that the plaintiff in error claimed under a title derived
from the laws.df Virginia.
The order made after the-rendition of the judgment, directing
-,commissioners to go on the--land from- which the defendants
had been evicted, and value the improvements, contains no
allusion to the title under which the land was recovered.
'he plaintiff in error ,might have resisted this order, by.
showing that his title was derived from .telaws of Virginia,
and .thus have spread his patent on tbe.record. He has not
done so.
On moving to quash the report of the-tommissioners, a fhir
occasion was again presented for making his patent the foundatibn of his motion, and thus exhibiting a title derived from
the laws of Virginia. He has not availed himself of it. He
has made his motion in general terms. assigning noreason for
iL. The judgment of the court overruling the motion !s- alsa
in general terms.
The record, then, of the Union bircuit court does not show
that the case is protected by the compact between Virginia and
Kentucky. This court cannot know judicially that it was not
a contest between two citizens , each claiming entirely under
the laws of that state.

JANUARY TERM 1831.
. [Lenor of Fiaher-es. Cocken._l.

When the record of the Union circuit court was transferred
to the court of appeals, the eourse of that court requires that
the appellant, or the plaintiff in error, should assign- the errors
on which he means to rely. This assignment contains the
first intimation that the title was derived'frQm Virginia, and
that'the plaintiff in error relied on the compact between the
two states.
But this assignment does not introduce the error into the
record, or in any manner alter it. The court of appeals was
not confined to the inquiry whether the error assigned was
valid in point of lvw. The preliminary inquiry was whether
it existed in the record. If upon examining the record that
court could not discover that the plaintiff'bad oserted any
right or interest in land derived from the laws of Virginia, the
question, whether the occupying-claimants. law violated the
compact between the states, could not arise.
The twenty-fifth sectioh of the act to establish the judicial
courts of the United States, which gives to this court the power of revising certain judgments of state courts, limits that
power in these words. "But no other error shall be assigned or regarded as a ground of reversal in any such case as
afotesaid thin such as appears on the face of the record, and
immediately respects the before mentioned questions of.validity
or construction of the said constitution, treaties,,statute, commissions or authorities in dispute."
If the view which has been taken of the record be correct, it
does not show that the compact with Virginia was involved
in the case. -Consequently, the question whether the act fop
the benefit of occupying claimants was valid or not does not
appear to have arisen; and nothing is shown on the record
which can give jurisdiction to this court.
The counsel for the. plaintiff in error has referred to former
decisions of this court, laying down the general principle, that
the title under a treaty or law of the United States need not
be specially pleaded; that it need not be stated on the
iecord that 'a construction has been put on a treaty or
law which this court may deem erroneous; or that an une6 nstituttional statute of a state has been held to be constitutional. It is sufficient, if the record shows that such
misconstruction nust have taken place or the decision eould
not have bien made. Harris vs. Dennie, 3 Peters) 292, is a

SUPREME COURT.
[Lessor of Fisher vs. Cockerell.]

strong ease to this effect. That case recognizes the principle on which the plaintiff in error relies; and says "it is
sufficient if from the facts stated such a question must have
arisen, and the judgment of the state court would not have
been what it is if there had riot been a misconstruction from
some act of congress, &c. &c. &c." but this misconstruction
must appear from the facts stated, and those facts can be stated
only on the'record
In the case of Harris os. Dennie a special verdict was found,
and the court confined itself to a consideration of the facts
stated in that verdict. Goods, in the custody of the United
States Vntil the duties should be secured, ahid a permit granted
for their being landed, were attached by a state officer at the
suit of a private creditor. This fact was found in the special
verdict, and the state court -sustained the attachment. This
court reviewed the act of congress for regulating the collection of duties on imports and tonnage, and came to the opinion
c that the goods in the special verdict mentioned were not by
the laws of the United States, under the circumstances mentioned in the said verdict liable to be attached by the said Dennie under the process in the said suit mentioned; but that the
said attachment sn made by him, as aforesaid, was repugnant
to the laws of the United States, and therefore utterly void."'
In this case no fact was noticed by the court which did not appear in the sppcial verdict.
So in the case of Craig et a]. vs. The State of Missouri. The
parties in conformity with a law of that state dispensed with
a jury, and referred the facts as well as law to the court The
court, in its judgment, stated the facts on which that judgment
was founded. It appeared from this statement that the note on
which the action was brought was given to secure the repayment of certain loan office certificates, which a majority of the
court deemed bills of credit in the sense of the constiLution.
This statement of facts made by the court, of the state, in its
judgment in a case in which the court was substituted for a
jury, was thought equivalent to a special verdict. In this
case too the court looked only at the record.
We say with confidence that this court has never takenjuris'diction, unless the case as stated in the record was brought
within the provisions of the twenty-fifth section of the judicial. act. There are some cases in which the jurisdiction of

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[Lessor of Fisher vs. Cockerell.]

the court has been negatived, that are entitled to notice.
Owings vs. Norwood's Lessee, 5 -Cr. 344, was an 'ejectment
brought in the general court of Maryland for a tract of land
lying/in Baltimore county. The defendant set up as a bar to
the action, an outstanding title in a British subject, which, he
contended, was protected by the treaty of peace. Judgment
was given for the plaintiff, and this judgment being affirmed
in the court of appeals, was brought before this court. The
judgment was affirmed; and the court said " whenever a right
grows out of or is protected by a treaty, it is sanctioned against
all the laws and judicial decisions of the states; and, whoever
may have this right, it is to be protected: but if the party's
title is not affected by the treaty, if le claims nothing under a
treaty, his title cannot be affected by the treaty."
Upon the same principle the person who would claim the
benefit of the"compact between Virginia and Kentucky must
show, and he can only show it on the record, that his case is
withir that compact.
The ease of Miller vs. Nicholls, 4 Wheat. 312, bears, we
think, a strong resemblance to this. William Nicholls collector, &c. being indebted to thM United States, executed on
the 9th of June 1798, a mortgage to Henry Miller for the
use of the United States for the sum of fifty-nine thousand
fou'r hundred and forty-four dollars, conditioned for the payment of twenty-nine thousand two hundred and seventy-one
dollars. Process was issued on this mortage from the sppreme
coui't of the state of Pennsylvania ; in March 1802, a levdrifacias was levied, th6 property sold, and the money, amounting
to fourteen thousand five hundred and thirty dollars, brqught
into c6urt, and deposited with.the prothonotary subject to the
order of the court.
On the 22d of December 1797, the said Nicholls was found,
on a settlement, indebted to the commonwealth of Pennsylvania
in the sum of nine thousahd nine hundred and eighty-seven
dollars and fifteen cents, and judgment therefor was entered
on the 6th of September 1798. These facts were.stated in a
case agreed; and the following question was submitted to the
court: "1Whether the said settlement of the said public accounts of the said William Nicholls, as aforesaid, on the 22d
of Dec. 1797, was and is a lien from the date thereof, on the
VOL. V. -2 1-1

SUPREME COURT.
[Lessor of Fisher vs. Cockerell.]

real estate of the said William Nicholls, and which his since
been sold as aforesaid."
On a rule made on the plaintiff in error to show cause why
the amount of the debt due to the commonwealth should iiot
,be taken out of oourt, the attorney for the United States came
into court and suggested " that the commonwealth of Pennsylvania, ought not to be permitted to have and receive the
money levied and produced by virtue of the execution in the
suit, because the said attorney in behalf bf the United States
saith, that as well by virtue of the said execution,,as of divers
acts of congress, and particularly of an act of congress entitled
an act to provide more effectually for the settlement of accounts between the United States and receivers of public
monies, approved the 3d of-March 1797, the said United
States are entitled to have and receive the money aforesaid,
and not the said commonwealth of Pennsylvania."
Judgment was rendered in favour of the state of Pennsylvania, which judgment was brought before this court by writ
of error.
A motion was made to dismiss this writ of error, because
the-record did not show jurisdiction in this court under the
twenty-fifth section of the judicial act: 'It was dismissed, because the record did not show that an act of congress was applicable to the case. The court added "the act of congress
which is supposed to have been disregarded, and which probably was disregarded by the state court, is that which gives
the United States priority in cases of, insolvency. Had the
fact of insolvency appeared upon the record, that would have
enabled this court to revise the judgment of the court of Pennsylvania. But that fact does not appear."
, In this case the suggestion filed by the attorney for the United
States alleged in terms, the priority claimed by the government under an act of congress which was specially referred to.
But the case agreed had omitted to state a fact on which the
application of that act depended. It had omitted to state that
Nicbolli Was insolvent, and.the priority of the United States
attached in cases of insolvency only.
In this case the act of congress under which the United
States claimed, was stated in the record, and the claim under
it was expressly made. But the fact "*hih was required -to

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[Lessor of Fisher vs. Cockerell.]

support the suggestion did not appear in the record. The
court refused to take jurisdiction.
In the case at bar, the fact that the title of the plaintiff in error
was derived from the laws of Virginia; a fact without which
the case cannot be brought within the compact, does not appear in the record: for we cannot consider a mere assignment
of errors in an apiellate court as a part of the record, unless it
be made so by a legislative act. The question whether the
acts of Kentucky in favour of occupying claimats were or
were not in contravention of the compact with Virginia, does
not appear to have arisen; and consequently the case is not
brought within the 25th section of the judicial act.
In the argument we have been admonished of the jealousy
with which the states of the union view the revising power
intrusted by the constitution and laws of the United States to
this tribunal. To observations of this character, the answer
uniformly given has been, that the course.of the judicial department is marked out by law. We ust tread the direct
and narrow path prescribed for us. As this court has never
grasped at ungranted jurisdiction, so will it never, we trust,
shrink from the exercise-of that which is conferred upon jL
The writ of error is dismissed, the court having no jurisdiction.
Mr Justice B.AL wrn dissenting.--I am compelled to dissent from the opinion of the court in this case for the following reasons:
The certificate of the clerk of the court of appeals, attached
to this record, is in these words: "I, Jacob Swigert, clerk of
the court of appeals for the state aforesaid, do hereby certify,
that. the foregoing seventy-two pages contain a transcript of
the iecord and proceedings in the case therein- mentioned:"
and I feel bound on the preliminary question of jurisdiction,
to consider all that is so contained to be a-part of the record in
this suit; so far, at least, as to give power to this court to bxamine whether the judgment of the court.of appeals is erroneous or not.
On a motion to dismiss this cause for the want of jurisdiction, the only question which arises is, whether it comes
prima facie within the'twehty-fifth section of the judiciary
act? This must be decided on an inspection of the whole

SUPREME COURT.
[Lessor of Fisher vs. Cockerell.]

record; and if it does appear that it presents any of the cases
therein provided for, the motion must be refused. "Wheri the
record comes to be judicially examined, this court may be of
opinion, that thoughi the question did arise which brings their
powers into action, yet it aid not come up in such a shape, or
is not so stated in the record of the court of appeals, that this
court can affirm or-reverse it for the specific cause assigned
for error. If "thequestion appears in any part of the 'ecord,
it is enough, in my opinion, for jurisdiction. The manner in
which it appears seems to me only to be examinable after jutisdiction is entertained.
It appears on the record, that the plaintiff read in evidence on the trial of the cause, a patent from Kentucky for
six hundred acres of land in pursuance of three military warrants, Nos. -1115,1125, and 1123; entered on the 21st of July
1784, and surveyed the 23d of May 1785.' The patent is set
forth verbatim. As the state of Kentucky had no.existence
in 1784 or 1785, when these warrants were entered and surveyed, we cannot be judicially ignorant tfiat these acts, as
well as the issuing of the warrants, and the title founded on
them, were under the laws of Virginia.
. As the compact between the two states is a part of the constitution of Kentucky, we cannot be ignorant of its existence,
and that it relates to lands held in Kentucky under the laws of
Virginia. After the plaintiff in ejectment had recovered
judgment, it appears that the court appointed commissioners to assess the value of the improvements made by the defendant on the land recovered froni him by the pl.aintiff.
The commissioners filed their report, awarding one thousand
three hundred and fifty dollars; and the court -rendered
judgment for this sum. The parties were then reversed.
Fisher, the defendant, moved the court to quash the proceedings;'on their refusal, he sued out a writ of error from the
court of appeals, summoning the plaintiff Cockerell, to "show
cause, if any he can, why a judgment obtained by him'against
Fisher, in-the Union circuit court, at the March term 1824,
for onethousand three hundred and fifty dollars, the value of
the improvements as assessed'by the commissioners appointed
under the occupying claimant law, besides costs, should not
be'reversed for the errors therein contained.

JANUARY TE R" 183.
[Lesspr of Fisher l's. Cockerell.]

On the record being removed into the court of appeals,
Fisher, airxong other reasons for reversing the judgment, assigned this.. "The plaintiff deriving his title from Virginia,.
the act or acts of the tate of Kentucky, on which the court has
founded its opinion, is repugnant as to the compact with
Virginia; therefore void as to the case before the court, being
against the constitution of the United States."
The court gave a deliberate opinion on this exception, and
adjudged the occupying claimant law to be constitutional,
and affirmed the judgment of the circuit court.
All this appears in the seventy-two pages of the record,
certified to us from the court of appeals. I do not feel authorized to declare, that what is so certified by the highest court
is no part of the record, and judicially unknown to this court;
nor when the record comes up, certified as orpe entire act, can
I on a question of jurisdiction, summarily decide that one part
is not as much within judicial cognizance as another.
I cannot be ignorant that John Fisher, a plaintiff in ejectment,. claimed under a patent to himselr, founded on a warrant entry and survey made in Virginia, and under her laws
has recovered a judgment for his land; and that the defendant
in the same suit has obtained a judgment against him for one
thousand three hundred nd fifty dollars, under the laws of
Kentucky, which has been affirmed by the highest court in
that state. In this I cannot fail to see with judicial eyes, that
the validity of a statuie of a state has been drawn in question,
on the ground of being repugnant to the constitution of the
United States. It seems to me to present the very question
arising under the twenty-fifth section, clearly and definitely
set forth, sufficiently explicit at least for jurisdiction, and containing, in my'opinion, all the certainty requisite to enable this
court to decide whether they will affirm or reverse the judgment of the court of appeals.
The court of appeals did not think that the r- .Iof the
circuit court did not bring the great question diredtly and
distinctly for their consideration. It seems to nie that' the
fact of the plaintiff in ejectment being saddled with a judgment of one thousand three hundred and fifty dollars, at the
sit of a defendant, for improvements, necessarily involves
every question necessary to give this court jurisdiction. A

SUPREME COURT.
[Lessor of Fisher vs. CockerelL.]

citizen of Kentucky has a right to question the validity of the
occupying claimant law, on its alleged repugnancy to the constitution of the United States. Independent of the compact,
this court would be bound to hear him on that question, on a
writ of error from the court of appeals, on a title wholly emanating from Kentucky. It may be questioned whether he
could set up the compact, but he could at least claim'the protection of the constitution in this court. This is all 'that is
necessary for jurisdiction.
We are not informed that it is necessary in the circuit
courts of Kentucky -for a party moving to quash a proceeding
like the one contained in this record, to specify the grounds.
This motion does not appear to have been overruled by that
court for such a reason, but solely on the validity of the law;
the judgment of the court of appeals was given expressly on
the ground that it was not repugnant to the constitution of
the United States.
When'the state courts decide the merits of a judgment in
favour of the defendant in ejc.ttment, for his improvements;
I am not prepared to say that their records are not cognizable
here, and that the constitutionality of the law under which
they are rendered does not arise on the judgment itself:, and
I do not know why we should'b6 more asfute to the mode in
which a question is presented on a record, than the supreme
court of a state. It is not a settled rule of law that reasons for
the motion should be assigned of record; that is a matter of
practice to be regulated by rule. No reasons are assigned of
Zecord in this court on motions to quash, or errprs assigned on
a judgmeiit. They are stated to the court, and in my opinion
whenever a motion is made in any court to quash any proceeding, the party moving may urge any reason showing it to be,
void without specifying them on record, unless it is required by
-some r6le. If the court of appeals had refused to consider the
-question on the record of the circuit court, because the tea-sons and grounds of the motion were not of record, we might,
if the rule of comity applies to decisions of -state courts on
questions affecting the jurisdiction of this court under the
twenty-fifth section, have made their decision the rule for
ours. But, in yielding to this objection, we consider the record of the circuit court in an aspect entirely different from

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[Lessor of Fisher us. Cockerell.]

that in which it was viewed and solemnly acted on by the
court of appeals. The occupying claimants' laws are public
acts, of which all courts in Kentucky are bound to take judicial notice. The proceeding of Cockerell against Fisher was
conducted under the immediate eye and order of the dourt: in
its very nature, it imported to be taken under those laws.
There were no other laws which would authorize such a judgment; and the validity of the judgment involved the validity of
the law.
But I apprehend that it is not necessary to give jurisdiction.
to this court, that it should appear in the record of an inferior
state court that a question: arises on the validity of a state law;
we have only to look to the record of the court to which we
may issue a writ of error, and whose judgment we must reverse or affirm: if it appears there, that the validity of a state
law has been drawn in question for the reasons set forth in
the twenty-fifth section, and that the decision of the highest
court is.in favour of its validity, the party against whom their
judgment is given has a right to be heard inthis court.
In this case, the writ of error from the court of appeals to
the circuit court most distinctly alleges the judgment to have
been under the occupying claimant law: the error assigned denies its validity as repugnant to compact and constitution;.
and the opinion and jidgment of the court affirmed the validity. I cannot, therefore, consider this -record as coram non
judice. The question involved in it is as distinct to my mind
and as unavoidable as special pleading can make: and the
plaintiff in error has, in my judgment, an undoubted right to
the opinion of this court, on the constitutional validity of the
judgment rendered against him by the court of appeals of
Kentucky.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record, from the court of appeals for the state of Kentucky,
being the highest court of law in said state, and was argued
by counsel; on consideration whereof, it is considered, ordered and adjudged by this court, that the writ of error in this
cause be, and "the same is hereby dismissed for want of jurisdiction.

