SUPREME' COURT.

CHARLES

.JDMONDSTON, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR vs. DRARE
AND MITCHEL, DEFENDANTS IN ERROR.

A letter of credit was written by Edmondston of Charleston, South Carolina, to a
commercial house at Havana in favour of J.and T. Robson, for fifty-thousand
dollars, "which sum they may invest through you in the produce of your island."
On the arrival of Thomas Robson in Havana, the house to whom the letter of
Mr Edmondston was addressed, was unable to undertake the business, and introduced Thomas Robson to Drake and Mitchel, merchants at that place; exhibiting to them the letter of credit, from Mr Edmondston. Drake and Mitchel,
on the faith of the letter of credit, and at the request of Thomas Robson, made
large shipments of coffee to Charleston, for which they were, by agreement
with Thomas Robson, to draw upon Goodhue and Co. of JV'ew York, at sixty
days, where'insurance was to be made. Of this agreement Edmondston was
informed, and he confirmed it in writing. For a part of the cost of the coffee
so shipped, Deke and Mitchel drew bills on New York, which were paid; and
afterwards, in consequence of a change in the rate of exchange, they drew for
the balance of the. shipments on Loddon. This was approved of'by J.and T.
Robson, but was not communicated to Edmondston. To provide for the payment of the bills drawn on London by Drake and Mitchel, the agents of J.
and T. Robson remitted bills on London, which were protested for non-payment; and Drake and Mitchel claimed from Edmondstqn, under the letter of
credit, payment of their bills on London. Held that Mr Ednioudston was
not liable for the same.
It would be an extraordinary departure from that exactness and precision which
is an important principle in the law and usage of merchants, if a merchant,
should act on: a letter of credit, such as that in this case, and hold the wtiter
esponsible, without giving notice to him that he had acted on it.

ERROR to the circuit court for the district of South Carolina.
T
he leading.facts in this case, from the record, were: Messrs
John and Thomas Robson, of Columbia, in the state of South
Carolina, being desirous of making a speculation in coffee, and
Thomas Robson, one of the firm, being about to proceed immediately to.Havana in execution of this purpose, procured
from Charles Edmondston,'of Charleston, the plhintiff in error,
a letter of credit, dated the 16th of April 1.825, to Castillo and
Black of Havana, in the island of Cuba, in these words:
Charleston,16th pril, 1825.
Messr' Castillo and Blac,--Gentlemen,-The present is
intended as a letter of credit in favour of my regarde friends,

JANUARY TERM T'831.
'Edmondston vs. Drake and Mitchel.]

Messrs J. and T. Robson, to the amount of forty or fifty
thousand dollars, which sum they may wish to invept through
you, in the purchase of your produce. Whatever engagements these gentlemen may enter~into, will be punctually attended to. With my best wishes for the success of this undertaking, I am, &c. &c. C. Edmondston.
With this letter, Thomas Robson sailed for Havana, the day,
after its date: upon 'his arrival, he presented his letter of credit
to Castillo and Black, who were then engaged in the execution of a similar contract, and. could not act on this. Mr
Black, one of the partners, introduced Mr Robson to* Messrs
Drake and Mitchel, the defendants in error, merchants residing in Havana; at the same time showing, but not delivering
to them, Edmondston's letter of credit. After this interview,
an agreement was entered into between Drake and'Mitchel
and the Robsons, the particulars of which are exhibited in a
letter dated the 28th April, fr6m Thomas Robson to Drake and
Mitchel.
Havana, 28th.. pril,1825:
Messrs Drake and Mitchel,-Gentlemen,-I intend sailing
to-morrow morning, in the schooner Felix, bound for Charleston, South Carolina, wind and weather permitting. I will
thank you to execute the following order, at your earliest convenience; provided you feel yourselves warranted in so doing,
from the letter of credit I pkcduded; viz: two to three thousand
bags of prime green Havana coffee, providcd the same can be had
at prices from eleven to thirteen dollars, and-for extra prime,
large lots, thirteen and a half. Bills on New York at sixty
da3 , at two and a half to five per cent premium; and to be
governed in said purchase by the rise or fall in foreign markets, exercising your better judgment thereon., Said coffee to
be forwarded by first good opportunity to Charleston, South
Carolina, on board of a good, sound and substantial vessel, addressed to the care of Boyce and Henry, Kunhart's wharf;
Charleston. Bills of loading to be immediately forwarded to
New York, and insurance ordered thereon to the full amount.
Invoice of coffee, with duplicate bills of loading, to be made
out in the name of J. and T. Robson, and forwarded with advice of drafts to the care of Boyce and Henry, Charleston.
VOL. V.-4 D

SUPREME COURT.
[Edmondstop vs. Drake and Mitehel]

Wishing you success in said purchase; and claiming your
particular attention thereto;-I am, gentlemen, your obedient
servant, Thomas Robson.
Please inform me the name of the house to whom the bills
of loading, &c. will be addressed.
Notice of this arrangement was communicated by Drake and
Mitchel to Charles Edmondston, in the following letter.
Havana, 29th 4.pril 1825.
Charles Edmondston, Esq.-Dear Sir,-In virtue of your
letter of credit to Messrs Castillo and Black, in favour of
Messrs J. and T. Robson, and at their request, we. have consented to -purchase two thousand bags of coffee, to be consigned to Messrs Boyce and Henry of your city, the insuiance, to be effected by Messrs Goodhue and Co. of New York,
,uponwhom we are to drawfor the amount, by reasonof the
facility of negotiations,Mr Robsoni orhisfriendsremitting
the money to these gerttlemen to meet our drafts. Mr Robson, who carries this, will no doubt explain to you in person this
negotiation, and we trust that there will be no demur in forwarding the necessary funds, with the cost of insurance. We
are, &c. &c. Drake and Mitchel.
On the 25th of May, 'Charles Edmondston acknowledged the
receipt of this letter in these words:
Charleston, 25th May 1825.
Messrs Drake and Mitchel,-Gentlemen,-In acknowledging the receipt of yours of the 29th of April, I cannot help
expressing my grateful feelings at the manner- you treated my
letter of credit -in Robson's favour. I am, &c. Claarles Edmondston.
The shipinent of coffee for the Robsons was completed by
the 17th of May; and in conformity with the agreement with
the Robsons, Drake and Mitchel, on the 21st of May, drew
'bills on New York for niearly fifteen thousand dollars, which
were all regularly paid.
On that same day on which they drew their last bill on
New York, they determined to alter the mode of reimbursement, as agreed on by the Robsons gnd theihselves; and in-

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[Edmondston vs. Drake and Mitchel.]

stead of drawing on New York, to draw on London for four
thousand pounds sterling. Their determination to do this,
and their probable motive for doing it,, appear by the following letter from them to Boyce and Henry, bf Charleston.
21st .kay 1825.

Gentlemen,-We crave reference to our last respects per
brig Catharine, which vessel we hope is safely arrived at this
date. We have this day received accounts froin your city,
and from New York, announcing to us the decline in the price
of coffee; it is therefore well that we had not gone to the full
extent of the instructions of Mr Robson. We also note the
decline of your exchange on London, and as ours is still maintained at fourteen per cent, it has occurred to us to alterour
plan of reimbursement, for.the benefit of the interested in these
coffee purchases, by drawing on London for the balance of our
shipments-for some houses here are drawing on the United
States at par to one per cent,. a rate which we cannot stjbmit
to-we are accordingly about to value on our friends Messrs
Campbell, -Bowden, and Co., to be covered by you or'Messrs
Goodhue and Co., as you may direct, to the amount of tour
thousand pounds sterling, which at four hundred and fortyfour, and fourteen per cent, amounts to twenty thousand two
hundred and forty-six dollars and forty cents. And we havealready drawn upon Messrs Goodhue and Co. twelve thousand six hundred and ninety-nine dollars and twelve cents,
with premium three, and two and a haif per cent, three hundred
and thirty-seven dollars and forty-three cents; and to complete
this account, we have again drawn on the same, two thousand and
seventy-one dollars and thirty-four cents, at two and a half
per cent, two thousand one hundred and twenty-three dollars
and twelve cents; making together thirty-five thousand four
hundred and six dollars and seven cents; from which deducting our commission for drawing and hegotiating, two and a half,
per dent, the remainder thirty-four thousand five'hundred and
twenty-two dollars will then be equal to the amount of our
three invoices per Eagle, Hannah, and Catharine, as per inclosed
statement. We trust that these dispositionswill meet your
approbation,and we pray you to make the necessary remittances to Messrs Campbell, Bowden and Co., including their
commission and any other incidental charges. Coffee is still
maintained here at thirteen dollars and upwards; but second

SUPREME COURT.
[Edmondston vs. Drakb and Mitchel.]

,qualities are plenty and cheaper in proportion; both this article and sugar are likely to decline a little, &c.
They executed this purpose on the day of the date of ,this
letter; the Robsons being credited, on that day, with the
amount of their bills on Campbell, Bowden, and Co., for four
thousand pounds. They drew on the same day, according
to their agreement, on New York, at two and a half per cent,
which bill was duly honoured.
The Robsons, on the 4th June 1825, assented to this alteration in the mode of reimbursement, with relation to the draft
for four thousand pounds; and their agents Boyce and Henry,
by their direction, and according to the request of Drake and
Mitchel, remitted to Campbeil, Bowden and Co. a bill of exchange of J. B. Clough, on his firm of Crowder, Clough and
Co. of Liverpool, at sixty days sight, on account of Drake and
Mitchel: which bills were protested for non-payment.
During all these operations Mr Edmondston was wholly
uninformed of the change which had been made in the mode
of reimbursement, and whfch had been stated to him by Drake
and Mitchel, in their letter of the 29th April.
On the 16th of September, Drake and Mitchel enclosed to
Mr Edmondston for collection, an order on Thomas Robson,
in the following words.
Havana, 16th September 1825.
Thomas Robson, Esq. Charleston,-Please pay Charles Edmondston, Esq. or order, the sum of twenty-six dollars, for
balance of your account'with, dear sir, your obedient servants,
Drake and Mitchel.
A:fter calling upon Mr Edniondstot, as their attorney in fact,
to collect the amount of the protested bills on Liverpool, from
the R obsons, or from Boyce and Henry; and he not succeeding; Messrs Drake and Mitchel instituted this suit in the circuit court.
On the trial, the counsel for the defendant requested the
court to charge the jury, as stated in the bill of exceptions;
which being refused, and a verdict and judgment being rendered for the plaintiff, this writ of error was prosecuted.
The exceptions are stated in the opinion of the court.
The case was argued by Mr Drayton and Mr Wirt, for the

JANUARY TERM lSS1.
[Edmondston vs. Drake and Mitchel.]

plaintiff in error; and by Mr Hunt and Mr Webster, for the
defendant.
As to the necessity of notice to Mr E9dmondston, of what
was done under the letter of credit, the counsel for the plaintiff in error, cited, 1 Mason's Reports, 340. 7 Cranch, 91, 92.
1 Atk. 91. 2 Bro. C. C. 579. 2 Ves. Jun. 540. 3 Mer.
272. 2 Johns. Ch. C. 544.
As to the construction and effect of the letter of credit, 2 Sand.
403, 411. 2 New Reports, 175.- 2 Maul. and Selw. 363. 3
Maul. and Sclw. 502. 5 Maul. and Selw. 166. 15"East,272.
8 Johns. Rep. 19. 3 Cranch, 492. 4 Johns..Rep. 476. 10
Johns. Rep. 188. 7 Term Rep. 254. 16 Johns. 100. 4
Taunt. 623. 3 Camp. 63. 4 Cranch, 224. -1 Stark. Rep.
153. a Barn. and Cress. 269. 2 Caines' Ca. Error, 1. 1
Paine's Rep. 377.
For the defendants in error, as to the liability of a guarantor,
the counsel cited, Pothier, oil Obligations, 1. ch. 5, sect. 1.
Ibid, 371. Code Napoleon, Liv. 3, Tit. 14, art. 2011. Ersk.
Institutes, 326. Merle vs. Wells. 2 Camp. N.- P. Rep. 413.
Mason vs. Pritchard, 2 Camp. N. P. Rep. 436. 12 East. 227.
Lanusse vs. Baker, 3 Wheat. 101. Russell vs. Clarke's Executors, 7 Cranch, 68. Meade vs. M'Dowell, 5Binney, 203-.
Barkley vs. Lucas, 1 Term Rep. 291. 12 East. 227. 1
'Maul.- and Selw. 21. 12 Wheat., 516.
Mr Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opinion of the
Court:
This suit was instituted'by Drake and Mitchel, merchants
of Havana, in Cuba, against Charles Edmonston, merchant of
Charleston, in the court of the United States for the. sixth circuitand district of South Carolina; in order to recover the
balance of an account due to Drake and Mitchel from J. and
T. Robson, wh.9 were merchants and partners of Columbia, in
South Carolina.
Thomas .Robson bing about to proceed .to the Havana, for
the purpose-of making a speculation in coffee, obtained from
Mr Edmonsfon 'the following letter of credit.
Charleston, dprfl 16, 1825.
Messrs Castilro and Black, -Gentlemen,-The present is in-

SUPREME COURT.
[Edmondston vs. Drake and Mitchel.)

tended as a letter of credit in favour of my regarded friends,
Messrs. J. and T. Robsonj to the amount of forty or fifty
thousand dollars, which sum they may wish to invest through
you in the produce of your island. Whatever engagements
these gentlemen may enter into- will be punctually attended to.
With my best wishes for the success of this undertaking, I
am, gentlemen, yours respectfully, Charles Edmondston.
On his arrival in Havana, Mr Robson presented his letter
of.credit to Messrs Castillo and Black; who being unable to
undertake the business, introduced him to Drake and Mitchel,
and showed them the letter of Mr Edmondston, but did not
deliver it to them. At this interview an agreement was entered into between Robson, and Drake and Mitchel, the particulars of which are stated in the following letter.
Havana, dpril 28, 1825.
Messrs Drake and Mitehel,-Gentlemen,-I intend sailing
to-morrow morning in tne schooner Felix bound- for Charleston, South Carolina, wind and weather permitting. I will
thank you to execute the following order, at your earliest convenience, provided you feel yourselves warranted in so doing
from the letter of credit I produced, viz. two to three thousand bags of prime green Havana coffee, provided the same
can be "had at prices from eleven'to thirteen dollars, and
for extra prime large lots thirteen and a half. Bills on New
York at sixty days at two and a half to five per cent premium, ard to be governed in said purchase by the rise and fall
in foreign markets, exercising your better judgmeit thereon.
Said co~fee to be forwarded, by first good opportunity, to
Charleston, South Carolina, on board of a good, sound and
substanial vessel, addressed to the care of Boyce and Henry,
Kunhart's wharf, Charleston. Bills of loading to be immediately forwarded to New York, and insurance ordered thereon to the' full amount. Invoice of coffee, with duplicate
landing, to be made out in the name of J. and T. Robson, and
foiwarded with advice of drafts to the care of Boyce and
Henry, Charleston. Wishing you success in said purchase;
and claiming your particular attention thereto; I am, gentlemen, your obedient servant, Tho. Robson.
Please inform me the name of 'the house to whom the bills
of loading, &c. will be addressed.-

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[Edmondston vs. Drake and Mitchel.l

On the succeeding day, notice of this arrangement was communicated to Charles Edmondston in the following letter.
.Tavana, d-~ril 29, 1825.
Charles Edmondston, Esquire,-Dear Sir,-fn virtue of your
letter of credit to Messrs. Castello and Black in favour of
.Messrs J. and T. Robson, and at their request, we have consented to purchase two thousand bags of coffee to be consigned
to Messrs Boyce and Henry of your city; the insurance to be
effected by Messrs Goodhue and Co. of New York, upon Whom
we are to draw for the amount, by reason of the facility of
negotiations; Mr Robson, or his friends, remitting the money
to these gentlemen to meet our drafts. -MVr Robson, who carries this, will no doubt explain to you in person this negotiation-, and we trust that there will be no demur in forwarding the necessary funds, with the cost of insurance. We are,
&c. Drake and Mitchel.
On the 25th of May, a short letter on business from Charles
Edmondston to Drake and Mitchel concluded in these terms:
" In acknowledging the receipt of yours of the 29th of April,
I cannot help expressing my grateful feelings at the manner
you treated my letter of credit in Robson's favour; I am, &c.
Charles Edmondston."
The shipment of coffee for J.and T. Robson was completed
by the 17th of May; and on the 21st of that month, Drake
and Mitchel had drawn bills on New York for nearly fifteen
thousand dollars, which were regularly paid. On that day
they determinedi, of their own accord, to change the mode of
reimbursement; and on the 25th drew bills'on London for four
thousand pounds sterling. This was communicated to Mesrs
Boyce and Henry, the agents of J.and T. Robson, at Charleston, in the following letter:
21st May 1825.
Gentlemen,-We crave reference to our last respects
per brig Catharine, which vessel we hope is safely arrived
at this date. *We have this day received accounts from
your city and from New Ydrk, announcing to us the decline
in th6 price of coffee; it is therefore well thatwe had not gone
to the full extent of the instructions of Mr Robson. We also

.632

SUPREME COURT.
[Edmondston vs. Drake.and'Mitchel4

note the decline of your exchange on London, and as ours is still
maintained at fourteen per cent, it has occurred to us to alter our
plan of reimbursements for- the benefit of the interested in
these coffee purchases, by drawing -on London for the balance
of our shipments-for some houses here are drawing on the
United States at par, to one per cent; a rate which we cannot
submit to; we are accordingly about to value on our friends
Messrs Campbell, Bowden andCo., to be covered by you, or
Messrs Goodhue & Co. as you may direct, to the amount of
four thousaud pounds sterling, Which at- four hundred and
foity-foiir dollars, at fourteen per cent, amounts to twentythousand two hundred and forty-six.dollars and forty cents.
And we have already drawn upon Messrs G6odhue and,-Co.
twelve thousand six hundred and ninety-nine dollars twelve
cents, with premium, three, and two and a half per.cent; three
hundred and thirty-seven dollars and forty-three cents, and to
complete this account we have again drawn on the same, two
thousand and seventy-one dollafs and thirty-four cents, at two
and a half per cent, two thousand one hundred and twenty three
dollars and twvelve cents; making together thirty-five thousand
four hulndred and six dollars seven cents, from which deducting our commission for drawing and negotiatingtwo and a half
-per cent, the remainder, thirty-four thousand five hundred and
twenty-two dollars, will then be equal to the amount of our three
invoices per Eagle, Hannah and Catharine, as per inclosed statement. . We trust that these.dispositions will meet your approbation, and we pray you to- make the necessary remittances
to Messrs Campbell, Bowden & Co. -including their commissionand any other incidental charges.
, On th6 same, day Drake and Mitchel drew their iast bill on
-New York, w*hich was luly honoured.
-J. and T. Robson, afterwards, on the 4th of June, assented
to his alteration in the mode of reimbursement; and directed
their agents Boyce and 'Henry to conform to it. They remit.
ted 'a hill drawn by J. B. Clough on his firm of Crowder,
Clough and bo. of Liverpool, at sixty diys sight, for four
thousand pounds sterling, on account of Drake and Mitchel.
No noticeof this transaction appears to have been given to Mr
Edmondston. ' On the 16th September, Drake and Mitchel in-

SANUARY TERM 1831.

633

tEdmondston vs. Drake and Mitchel.J

closed to him for collection, a small order on T. Robson, in
the following words:
Havar.z, 16th September 1825.
Thomas Robson, Esq., Charleston. -Please pay Charles
Edmondston, Esq., or order, the sum of twenty-six dollars,
for balance of your account with, dear sir, your obedient servants, Drake and Mitchel.
The bill on Crowder, Clough and Co. having been returned
under dishonour, Drake and Mitchel, in a letter of the 15th
of October, employed Mr Edmondston as their agent, to obtain
its amount from the Robsons, or from Boyce and Henry. In
a letter of the 5th of November, Mr Edmondston informed
Drake and Mitchel of the illsuccess of his endeavours to procure payment. The Robsons,. who weie insolvent, considered
themselves as discharged from the debt, by remitting the bill
on London, in conformity with the directions of Drake and
Mitchel; and Boyce and Henry, whose narhes were not- on
the bill, said they had acted only as agents of the Robsons, and
of Drake and Mitchel. After some correspondence between
Mr Edmondston, and Drake and Mitchel, on- the liability of
the former for the protested.bill on Crowder, Clough and Co.,
in the course of which Mr Edmondston transmitted to them
a copy of his letter to Castillo and Black; this suit was instituted on the original letter of credit of the 16th of April 1825,
and on the letter addressed by Edmondston to Drake and
Mitchel, on the 25th of May following.,
At the trial 'of the cause, .the following bills of exceptions
were taken .
First Exception. The counsel for the defendant insisted
that the letter of the defendant,- of the 16th of April 1825,
addfessed to Castillo and Black, was not a general letter of
credit, but an engagement only to guaranty the contracts of J.
and T. Robson with Castillo and Black, and not with the plaintiffs; and that the said guarantee was not assignable; and that the
defendant on the said letter was not accountableto the plaintiffs..
But the cotit instructed the jury, that thesaid letter of the 16th'
of April 1825 was a general letter of credit, in favbutW of J.
and T. Robson; that it authorized the said Castillo and Black,
VOL. V.-4 E

SUPREME COURT.
[Edmondston vs. Drake and Mitchel.]

not only to give, but to procure acredit fo1 the said Robsons; and
if the jury believed that under the said letter the said Castillo
and Black had procured such credit for them with Drake and
Mitchel,. that Drake and Mitchel, the plaintiffs, had, under
this letter, the same right to call on the defendant to make
good the contracts of J. and T. Robson with them the plaintiffs,
as Castillo and Black would have had, if they, Castillo and
Black, had, on The faith of this letter, contracted with the said
J. and T. Robson.
Second. And the counsel for the defendant contended, and
so moved the court to instruct the jury, that in order to make
the defendant liable to the plaintiffs, under the said contract,
they were bound by the law merchant to give him due notice
thereof; and as the defendant neither received notice of, nor
ever assented to the subsequent change as to the place or form
of payment, he was fully discharged therefrom; on which the'
court, being divided in opinion, refused to give the instruction. It-was, therefore, not given to the jury. Arid, on the
contrary, his honor judge Lee, one of the presiding judges,
charged and fnstructed the jury, that they, the plaintiffs, were
not bouhd to give 'the defendant notice of the original contract, and though they gave him notice of it, they were not
bound tb give him notice of the alteration made in it.
77ird. And the counsel for the defendant argued to the
court, and requ6sted the court so to instruct the jury, that if
the defendant was bound at all to the plaintiffs, he was bound
for the performance of the agreement made between the Robsons and the plaintiff, *as set forth in the letter of Thomas
Robson to them, dated the 28th.of April, and the plaintiffs'
letter of the 29th of April 1825, to the defendant; and that
the arrangement afterwards made between the plaintiffs and
Robson, for payment in London, in'stead of New York, was
an alteration of the contract; and the defendant not having
consented thereto, was not bound for the performance of the
agreement thus altered, but was discharged from his liability,
if, in fact, he was at all liable: but, the court being divided,
refused to give such instruction.
Fourth. And the counsel for the defendant further arg ed
to thecourt, and requested the court so to charge and-instruct
the jury, that the guarantee of the defendant Was.not a conti-

JANUARY TERMI 1831,
[Edmondston vs. Drake and Mitchel.]

nuing guarantee, and could not be extended to any other engagements than those mentionedin the letter of the plaintiffs
to him, of the 29th of April aforesaid, and set forth in that
of Thomas Robson to them, of the 28th of April aforesaid;
and that the change in the place of payment, from New York
to London, made without due notice thereof given to the defendant, discharged him from the said guarantee: hut the court,
being divided in opinion, refused to give such instruction.
Fifth. And the counsel for the defendant further argued
to the court, and requested the court so to charge and instruct
the jury, that the plaintiffs in their letter of the 2.9th of April,
having given notice to the defendant of the contract made by
them with the Robsons, in virtue of his the defendant's letter
of the 16th of April, were bound to give him notice of the
change of the contract; and as they did not give him any such
notice, he is thereby discharged. But the court, being divided
in opinion,-refused to give the instruction: it. was therefore
not given to the jury; and on the contrary, his honor judge
Lee, one of the presiding judges, charged and instructed the
jury, that the plaintiffs were not bound to give the defendant
notice of the original contract; and though they gave him
notice of it, they were not bound to give him notice of any
alteration made in it.
The jury found a verdict for the plaintiffs; the judgment on
which is brought before this court by writ of error.
In the view which the court takes of the case, it is unnecessary to decide on the first instruction given by the circuit
courf. If the letter of the 16th of April 1825 was limited
unquestionably
t Castillo and Black, that of the 25th o -lay,
sanctioned the advances made by Drake and Mitchel on its
authority; and made Edmondston responsible for Robson's
contract with them. It is on his part a collateral undertaking,
which binds him as surety for the Robsons, that they will
comply with their contract. No doubt exists respecting his
original liability. The inquiry is, has the subsequent conduct
nf theparties released him from it?
It is necessary to ascetarin exactly iwhat the con-tract reany
was. The evidence of it is to be found in the letter of T.
Robson to Drake and Mitchel, of the 28th of April 1825, ant
in the letter written by Drake and Mitchel to Edmondston on

SUPREME COURT.
[Edmondston vs. Drake and Mitche).]

the succeeding day. The first states the order to be executed
by Drake and Mitchel. It is for "two to three thousand bags
of prime green Havana coffee; provided the same can be had at
prices from eleven to thirteen dollars, and for extra prime large
lots, thirteen and a half. Bills on New York at sixty days, at
two and a half to five per cent premium, and to be governed in
said purchase by the rise or fall in foreign markets, exercising your better judgment there6n." The last states it to Edmondston in the following words: "We have consented to
purchase two thousand bags of coffee, to be consigned to Messrs
Boyce and HeDwy of your city, the insurance to be effected by
Messrs Goodhue and Co. of New York, upon whom we are
to draw for the amount, by reason of the facility of negotiation;
Mr Robson or his friends remitting the money to these gentlemen to meet our drafts."
The contract consists of the quantity of coffee to be purchased, the house to which it was to be shipped, and. the mode
of payment. On the quantity to be purchased, Drake and
Mitchel were to exercise their judgment. It was to be from
two t6 three thousand bags, as the rise or fall of foreign markets might render advisable. The letter of Drake and Mitchel, giving notice of the contract to Edmondston, shows their
determination to limit their purchase to two thousand bags.
On the other parts of the contract, itwe are to judge from its
language, they could exercise no discretidn. The coffee was
to be shipped to Boyce and Henry of Charleston, and the mode
of payment was settled definitively. It was to be by remittances to Messrs Goodhue and'Co. of New York, on whom
Drake and Mitchel were to draw at a rate of exchange settled
between the parties. This contract was obligatory in all its
parts, and when ,communicated to Mr Edmondston, gave him
precise information of the extent of his liability. His letter
of the 25th May was written r..ith a view to the particular
contract, which had been thus communicated.
In estimating the influence of this hotice on the cause, it has
been supposed of some consequence to establish its necessity.
The district judge, sitting in the circuit court, informed the
jury that it was not necessary. The attempt has not been
made to sustain this instruction in its terms, but to explain it
so as to limit it to the necessity of giving Mr Edmondston no-

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[Edmondston vs. Drake and Mitchel.)

tice of the mode in which Drake and Mitchel were to be reimbursed for the coffee. This was probably the intention of
the judge. It would indeed be an extraordinary departure
from that exactness and precision which peculiarly distinguish commercial transactions, which is an important principle in the law and- usage of merchants, if a merchant should
act on a letter of this character, and hold the writer responsible, without giving notice to him that he had acted on it. The
authorities quoted at the bar, on this point, unquestionably establish this principle.
If it were incumbent on Drake and Mitchel to give notice
t6 Mr Edmondston that they had acted on his letter of credit,
did the nature of the transaction require a communication of
that part of the contract which stipplated for. the mode of payment?
t cannot be alleged that this part of it was of no importance, or that it did not concern Mfr Edmondston. It is an
essential article in all contracts, and was of peculiar interest
to Mr Edmondston in this. The parties thought the particular iode of reimbursement of sufficient importance to stipulate
for it, expressly, in their apeement. We cannot determine
positively whether it was or was not a matter of indifference
to them. They selected this; and when selected, it became a
part of the contract. Each had consequently a right to insist
upon it.

We have said that this part of the agreement was of peculiar interest to Mr Edmondston. For any failure in it, he
was responsible. Being informed of the place on which bills
were to be drawn by Drake and Mitchel, and to which remittances-to meet them were to be made, he was enabled to bestow that .general attention on the course of the business
which lie might think necessary for his own safety. He
might observe, generally, the shipments made on account of
the Robsons to New York,' and be led to farther inquiry by
any apparent remissness. Drake and Mitchel seem to have
given him the information with this view. After saying they
are to draw on Messrs Goodhue & Co. of New York, they
add, "M r Robson, or isfriends, remitting the money to the.e
gentlemen to meet our drafts." It was essential to Mr Robson, or to thefriends by whom the remittances might be made.

SUPREME COURT.
[Edmondston vs. Drake and Mitchel.]

that the place and persons to whom they might be made should
be fixed.
We cannot consider this part of the agreement as immaterial. It was the part in which Mr Ddmondston was most
deeply interested.
Being part of the contract, it is not pretenued that Drake
and Mitchl could alter it without the consent of the Robsons. They could no more vary a contract made, than they
could make one originally. The one) as much as the other,
requires the consent of both parties.
Drake and Mitchel, and the Robsohs,being capable of binding
themselves by an original contract, were equally capable of
varying that contract at will. But though capable of binding
themselves, they were not capable of binding Mr Edmondston.
To this his own consent was indispensable. , Any new
stipulation introduced into it was so far a new contract,
which could only affect themselves. Mr Edmondston was a
stranger to it, unless his letter to Castillo and Black of the
16th of April 1825, in connexion with his letter to Drake and
Mitchel of the 25th of May, in the same year, made him a
party to it.
The letter of the 16th of April, in its object and its language,-is limited to a contract to be made by Mr Robson 'luring his stay in the Havana. It was written for a special
purpose, and its obligation couild be extended no farther when
that purpose was accomplished. It was intended to pledge
the credit of the writer to the.amount of forty or fifty thousand dollars, to be invested by Mr Robson in the purchase of
the produce of the island. The letter was directed to an operation for which Mr Robson went to the Havana, and which
was to be completed while there. It was addressed to merchants of that place, and relates to an operation to be performed in that place. If instead of proceeding to the Havana, and purchasing the produce of the island, he had proceeded to Great Britain, and purchased a cargo of woollens; it
would scarcely be pretended that the vendor trusted to this letter. Still less could it be pretended, if, after actually making
the contradt in Havana, he had proceeded to Europe, and
made purchases -in that part of the world. The cases iited
in argument show that in law and in the understanding of

JANUARY TERM 1831.
lEdmondston vs. Drake and Mitchel.]

,

commercial men, the credit given by such a letter is coQ.fined
to the particular operation and to the particular time. It extended to no contract made by Robson after returning to the
United States.
Still less can the letter of the 25th of May avail the defendants in error. That is obviously confined to the contract
stated in the letter of Drake and Mitchel, to which it is an answer.
The credit then given in.the letter of Mr Edmondston was
exhausted by the contract made by Robson while at Havana, and the extent of his responsibility under thop letters is
confined to that contract. Drake and Mitchel, and the Robsons
could no more affect him by any change in its terms, than by
an entirely new stipulation, or an entirely new contract.
It has been said that this change was made for the advantage of the Robsons, and with" their consent. 'It is immaterial whether it was made for the benefit of the Robsons, or of
Drake and Mitchel, or of both. They had no right to vary
a contract for their own benefit at the hazard of Mr Edmondston.
It has been urged that the risk of remittances to New York
was as great as the risk of bills on England. Were this true,
it could not affect the 'case. Mr Edmondston had a right to
exercise his-own judgment on the risk; and the persons who
varied this contract had no right to judge for him.
But is it true that the risk was not increased? While payments were to be made in New York, the agents in the transaction were in some measure within the view of Mr Edmond-.
ston. He could observe their situation_, and act for his own
safety. This 'power is essentially diminished, when- a bill
without his knowledge, on a house of whose stability hu may
be ignorant, is remitted at sixty days sight to England. It is
on every reasonable calculation, at all events, a prolongation of
the risk.
The Lontract at the Havana may be considerdd as one to
be performed immediately. It does not appear that any time
was given for the shipment of the coffee; and the whole transaction has the appearance that the bills were to be drawn as
soon as the coffee was shipped. The last bill on New York
was drawn on the 21st of May, and notice of the bill on Lon-

SUPREME COURT.
[Edmondston ve. Drake and Mitchel.]

don was given on the 26th of- that -month. It may be considered then, as a transaction to be completed as soon as the
nature of the business would permit. It might be reasonably
supposedthat it would be compleLed before the condition of
the parties would be essentially changed. Had the bill which
was drawn on London been drawn at the same time on New
York, there is reason to believe that it would have been paid.
The change in the mode of payment, by substituting a bill on'
London at long sight, necessarily prolonged the time at which
"payment should be made, and prolonged the risk of Mr Edmondston. This they had no right to prolong, without his
consent.
It is admitted that Drake and Mitchel could not change the
mode of layment, without the consent of the Robsons. Then,
it is a part of the contract; of that contract, for which alone Mr
Edmondston became responsible.
It has been said that the engagement respecting the place of
payment was contingent, dependent on the facility of negotiations, and subject to any future arrangement to be made between the parties.
We do not so understand the agreement. Its terms are
positive, dependent upon no contingency. "The facility of
negotiations" was the motive for the .,ipulation. No hint
of a reserved power to change it, is given either in the letter of
'T. Robson to Drake and Mitchel, or in theirs to, Edmondston. It was not a contingent but an absolute arrangement,
as absolute as any other part of the contract.
We think the court erred in not giving the second, third,
fourth, and fifth instructions to the jury,. and the judgment
ought to be reversed, and the cause remanded with directions
to award a venire facias de novo.
This cause came on to be. heard on the transcript of tlhe record from the circuit court of the United States, for the district
of South 'Carolina, and was argued by counsel: on consid.eration whereof, it is ordered and adjudged by this court,
that the judgment of the said circuit court in this cause be, and
the same .is hereby reversed; and that this cause be, and, the
same is hereby remanded to the said circuit court, with instructions to award a venirefacias de novo.

