JANUARY TERM 1831.

PIERRE MENARD, PLAINTIFP IN ERROR V.S'. ASPASIA,
FENDANT IN ERROR.

DE-

The mother of Aspasia, a coloured woman, was born a slave at Kaskaskiz, in
Illinois, previous to 1787, and before that country was conquered for Virginia. Aspasia was born in Illinois subsequent to the passage of the ordinance
for the government of that territory. Aspasia was afterwards sent as a slave to
the state of lissouri. In Missouri Aspasia claimed to be free, under the ordinance "for the government of the territory of the United States northi est of
the river Ohio," passed 13th July 1787. The supreme court of Missoui
decided that Aspasia was free, and Menard, who claimed her as his slave,
brought this writ of error under the 25th section of the act of 1789, claiming
to reverse the judgment of that court. Held, that the case is not within the
provisions of the 25th section of the act of 1789.
The provisions of the compact which relate to "property," and to "rights," are
general. They refer to no specific property or class of rights: it is impossible,
therefore, judicially, to limit their application. If it were admitted that Aspasia is the property of the plaintiff in error, and the court were to take jurisdiction of the cause under the provisions of the ordinance, must they not on the
same ground interpose their jurisdictiun in all other controversies respecting
property, which was acquired in the north-western territory.
Whatever right may be claimed to have originated under the ordinance of 1787;
it would seem, that a right to the involuntary service of an individual could not
have had its source in that, instrument. It declares that" there shall nof be
slavery nor involuntary servitude in the territory." If this did not destroy a
vested right in slaves, it at least did not create or strengthen that right.
If the decision of the supreme court of Missouri had been against Aspasia, it
might have been contended that the revising power of this court, under the
25th section of-the judiciary act, could be exercised. In such a case the decision would have been against the express provision of the ordinance.in favour
of liberty; and on that ground, if that instrument could be considered under the
circumstances as an act of congress, within the 25th section, the jurisdiction
of this court would be unquestionable. But the decision was not against, but
in favour of the express provision'of the ordinance.
The general provisions of the ordinance of 1787, as to the rights of property,
cannot give jurisdiction to this court. They do not come within the 25th
section of the judiciary act.

ERROR from the supreme court of the state of Missouri.
An action of assault and battery was instituted in the circuit court for the county of St Louis, in the state of Missouri,
by Aspasia, a woman of colour, to establish her right to free-dom. By consent of the parties, and in conformity with the
law of that state, the factq were submitted to the determina
tion of the court without the intervention of a jury,
VOL. V.-S 0

SUPREME COURT.
[Menard vs. Aspasia.]

The evidence, as disclosed in the bill of exceptions, established the following case: The mother of Aspasia, the defendant in error, was born a slave, and was held as such by a
French inhabitant of Kaskaskia, Illinois, previous to the year
1787; and after that year was held as a slave by the same individual, who was a citizen of that country before its conquest
by Virginia, and before the passage of the ordinance for the
government of the northwestern territory, and who continued
to be such 'afterwards, ,nd was such at the time of Aspasia's
birth. Aspasia was born after the year 1787, and from the time
of her birth she was raised and held as a slave, till some time
in the year 1821, when she was purchased by the plaintiff in
error, wh9 immediately after gave her to his son-in-law, Francis Chouteau, then and now residing in St Louis, Missouri,
who held her as a slave till the 10th of October 1827, when he
returned her to the plaintiff in error, in consequence of the
claim she set up for her freedom.
Upon the evidence thus given, Menard, by his counsel,
moved the couit to decide 1. That if it was found from'the testimony that the mother -of the plintiff, Aspasia, was a negro
woman, and. legally held in slavery before, fnd at and after
the date of the ordinance passed by the congress of the United
States on the 13th of July 1787, entitled, "An ordinance for
the government of the territory of the United States, northwest of the river Ohio," at the village of Kaskaskia, in the late
north-western territory, .and the plaintifi Aspasia, was born
of such mother subsequent to the adoption of the ordinance
aforesaid, at the village of Kaskaskia aforesaid, the plaintiff is
not entitled to her freedom; which instruction the court refused to give.
The same party, by his counsel, moved'the court to decide,
2. That if it was found from the testimony that the mother
of Aspasia was a negro woman, legally held in slavery before and at, and after the adoption of the ordinance entitled,
c An ordinance for the government of the territory of the United States, northwest of the river Ohio," passed by the congress of the United States, on the 13th day of July 1787, by
4o French inhabitant of the village of Kaskaskia, in the northwestern territory, and who was a citizen of the same before
the conquest of the country by Virginia, and afterwards; and
that the plaintiff was born at the village of Kaskaskia aforesaid,

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[Menard vs. Aspasla.]

of such mother, while so held in slavery by such French in-.
habitant, although subsequent to the date of the orainance
aforesaid she, the piaintiff (Aspasia), was not entitled to her
freedom ; which instructions the court refused to give. To
which.refusal, in both instancea, the counsel of Menard excepted, &c. And the court decided that the defendant, Menard, was guilty, &c., and that Aspasia wag not a slave, but free.
This cause was taken to the supreme court of Missouri, and
the decision aforesaid was affirmed.
This writ of error was prosecuted under the 25th sectioxl of
the judiciary act, passed in 1789.
The case was argued by Mr Wirt for the plaintiff in error:
no counsel appearing for the defendant.
Mr Wirt stated, that the plaintiff in error, as well as the defendant, claimed under the same act of congress. The ordi-:
nance of 1787 is an act of congress, as it has bheu,.since the establishment of the constitution of the United States . repeatedly
ratified and adopted as an act of congress. Cited,. the act for
the government of the north-west territory, passed in 1787;
act establishing the territory of Indiana ; the act establishing
the Illinois territory.
The plaintiff in error considers that the supreme court of
Missouri has liroceeded on a misconstruction of that ordinance,
as they have applied its provisions to aclass of persons in the territory over which the ordinance did not extend, and to which it
had no application. This has been done by referring the pohibitions of slavery to the French settlers, who were within
the territory at the time it was adopted by the congress of the
United States.
The ordinance has received different constructions in the
states of Illinois and Missouri, as to its operation on the people
of colour, who were slaves at the time of its enactment, and
upon their descendants born since,1787.
This case as to jurisdiction is similar to the case of Matthews vs. Zane, 4 Cranch, 282; 2 Peters's Cond. Rep. 149;
and the same case in 5 Cranch, 92; same case 7 Wheat. 206.,
Cited also Serjeant's Constitutional Law, 64; M'Clung vs.
Sillman, 6 Wheat 598.
The supreme court of Missouri have also disregarded the

SUPREME COURT.
[Menard vs. Aspasia.]

6th provision in.the ordinance, as this case is protected by the
contract contained, in that provision with the state of Virginia.
iL. U. S. 48.
this being a question of liberty and slavery,.it is addressed
to our sympathies; but this is not to affect the rights of the
plaintiff in error if they are secured to him by the law and by
the constitution.
The ordinance stipulates protection to the French settlers
within the territory, as to their persons and their property.
To show that by refusing to the plaintiff in eror, who is one
of the descendants of those French settlers, -ad who claims
Aspasia under a French inhabitant residing at Kaskaskii previous to 1787, the supreme court have not conformed to one
of the prpvisions of theordinance; it will be necessary to go back
to the'firsti settlement of Kaskaskia; and to trace down the history and condition of these people to the period of the ordiiance.
The settlements from Illinois were made from Canada when
Canada belonged to France; the number of white settlers then,
exclusive of troops, was about two thousand. Pittman's Hist.
European Settlements on the Mississippi, 55: These people
brought with them from Canada the French laws and customs,
and among them the law by which slavery was tolerated; under
which law they were entitled to their slaves as property, and
to the issue of the females as property also.
This-country, a dependency of Canada, was ceded with Cgnadato Great Britain by the treaty of Paris in 1763; and when
General Gage, in 1764, took possession of the country in behalt of Great Britain, he promised by his proclamation to the
subjects of France then in the territory that they should enjoy
the same rights and privileges, and the same security for their
persons and property as under their former sovereign. At
this period, the same laws as those of France prevailed in the
colonies of England as to slavery. At this time there were
slaves in that country, and particularly at the posts, of which
Kaskaskia was one. Pittman, 43, 47.
In 1778 it was conquered by the troops of Virginia under
General, Rogers Clarke. The country lay within the chartered limits of Virgihia; and in the same year it was erected,
by-an, act of the Virginia Legislature, into a county of that

JANUARY TERM

I831.

EMenard vs. Aspasia.',

state. 9 Hening's Statutes at Large, 552, ch. 21. The preamble of that statute recites, that the inhabitants had acknowledged themselves, citizens of the commonwealth of Virginia,
and taken the oath of fidelity to the same. By that act it is
declared, that the inhabitants shall enjoy their own religion,
c together with all their civil rights and property." At this
time slave property in Virginia rested exactly on the same
footing tnat it had done, and still did in the Frehch and British
elonies, and was fixed to be partus sequitur ventrem. Thus,
by the act of Virginia of 1788, the inhabitants had a guarantee
of their slaves as property, and of the issue of their slaves in
like ranner.
The cession of this territory to the United States in 1784
was made with a full knowledge of the existence of this property ; and congress recognize it in the act relative to the government of the territory, and give to the free males a voice in
its organization.
9 Journals of Congress, 144, ordinance
of 1787. This ordinance is in harmony with the provisions of
the act of Virginia of 1798.
It was no part of the purpose of the ordinance to change existing rights, but its purpose was a great prospective polity
looking to the future settlements of the vacant lands, and to
the terms on which settlers should come on. The regulations
of the ordinance applied to unappropriated lands, prescribing
the terms on which those lands should be settled, not affecting
in any degree the vested rights and institutions of the old French
settlers. 7 Danes's Ab. 442.
A fair construction of the ordinance of 1787 is, that slave
property was left untouched and unaffected by its provisions ;
it was not intended to operate so As to divest property lawfully
acquired and held from the first settlement of the country; the
laws relative to which had never been annulled, but on the
cantrani had been constantly confirmed.
It could not possibly have been the intention of congress to
divest such property, for these reasons-1. Because it would
have violated one of the conditions on which congress had accepted-lhe-cession trom Virginia. 2. Because the existence
and continuance of slavery, to some extent, is acknowledged by
unavoidable implication in those parts-of -he ordinance which
refer to the number of free males. And, 3. Because tML'

SUPREME COURT.
(Menard vs. Aspasia.]

French settlers are excepted from the action of the ordinance.
4. The contemporaneous construction by those who drafted
the ordinance. 5. The recognition of slavery, as existing
with the date of the ordinance.
6. The admission of Illinois
into the Union, and the approval of her constitution; which
was admitted- by congress to have expounded this ordinance
correctly.
Upon the whole, it must be apparent, that it never was the
intention of the state of Virginia, or of the old congress, that
the old French settlers, of whom the appellant is one, should
be molested in their possession'bf this species of property. It
would be a breach of faith towards them to have allowed them
to have remained in the territory, and take the oath of allegiance to Virginia, to put such a construction on this ordinance.
There are but a handful of these people. Their slaves are regarded by them as children. In the present case, Aspasia was
handed over to a daughter of Menard, who had married children ; so that she was still in the family. If she had remained
in Illinois, she wouldprobably plever have made this question :
or, if she had, .we have seen she- would not have succeeded;
for, under their state decisions, it has become a rule of property, partus sequitur ventrem.
Mvfr Justice M'L.AN delivered the opinion of the Court.
This suit was brought into this court from the sbpreme
court of the state of Missouri, by a writ of errok.
An action for false imprisonment was commenced in the
circuit court for the county of St Louis, by the defendant in
error, to establish her freedom. .By thoconsent of counsel,
under the statute of Missouri, the facts and law of the case
were submitted to the court.
The facts, as stated in the bill df exceptions, are these:
The mother of Aspasia was born at Kaskaskia, Illinois, previous to the year 1787, and was held as a slave from her birth,
by a citizen of that country.' His residence commenced be-fore the country was conquered by Virginia, and continued
until after the birth of Aspasia; which was several years subsequeat to the passage of the ordinance for the government
of the northwestern territory. She was born a slave, at the
village of Kaskaskia, and held as such.' In the year. 1821, she

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[Menard. vs. Aspasiw-.1

was purchased bX the plaintiff in error; who immediately afterwards gave her to his sun-in-law, Francis Qhouteau, a resident of St Louis. He held her as a slave until October 1827,
when he returned her to the plaintiff in error, in consequence
of the claim she set up for her freedom.
Upon this evidence Menard claimed Aspasia as his slave;
but the circuit court decided against him. He appealed to the
supreme court of the state; and in that court the judgment of
the circuit court was affirmed.
To reverse this judgment, a writ of error is now prosecuted;
and two errors are assigned.
1. Slaves in the northwestern territory, before and at the
time of the-adoption of the ordinance of 1787, were not liberated by that instrument, but continued slaves.
2. Thiat the offspring of such slaves follow the condition of
the mother, and are also slaves. To understand the nature of
the right asserted by the plaintiff in error, a reference to the
civil history of the Illinois counry is necessary. By the
treaty of peace, concluded in 1763, between England and
France, the latter ceded to the former the country ouit of
a part of which ° the state of Illinois was formed. In the colonies of both France and England, it fs well known that slavery is tolerated.
It was stipulated in the treaty, "that those who chose to retain their land , and become subjects of his majesty the king
of England, shall enjoy the same rights and privileges, the
same security for their persons and effects, and liberty of trade,
as the old subjects of the king." The same assurance was
given to the inhabitants of the country in the proclamation of
General Gage in 1764.
In 1778, a military force, organized under the authority of
Virginia, and commanded by General Clarke, subdued Kaskaskia and post Vincent, and drove the British forces from
the country. Soon after this occurrence, by an act of the Virginia Legislature, a county called Illinois was organized, embracing the conquered district; and its citizens were admitted
on an equality of rights with the other citizens of Virginia.
This country was ceded to theUnited States by Virginia, in
1784, with certain stipulations, one of which was that " the
French and Canadian inhabitants, and other settlers of the

SUPREME COURT.
[Menard vs. Aspasia.]

Kaskasldas, St Vincents, and the neighbouring villages, who
have professed themselves citizens of Virginia, shall have their
possessions and titles confirmed to them, and be protected in
the enjoyment of their rights and liberties."
Under the laws of Virginia, the citizens of Illinois county
had a right to purchase and hold slaves; and that right was not
abrogated, but protected by the cession of 1784, to the United
States.
In April 1784, congress passed certain resolutions, securing
to the people north of the Ohio certain rights and privileges
by which they were governed; and which remained in force
until the adoption of the ordinance of 1787.
By these resolutions the existence of slavery is not referred
to, except by implication, in using the words, "free males of
full age," being entitled to certain privileges; and also, "9free
inhabitants." Under these resolutions, in the manner prescribed, the free inhabitants were authorized to adopt the laws
of any one of the original states.
On the 13th July 1787, congress passed the ordinance for
'the government of the territory northwest of the river Ohio;
and repealed the resolutions of 1784.
In this ordinance ten articles are adopted, which are declared to be articles of compact, "between the original states
and the people and states in the said territory; and to remain
unalterable forever, unless by common consent." Among
these articles is the following: "There shall be neither slavery
nor involuntary servitude in the said territory, otherwise than
in the punishment of crimes, whereof the party shall have been
duly convicted."
By an act of congress bf 1789, and another of 1800, certain'
provisions were made to regulate the government of the territory, and make a division of it; but they do not.affect the question which is made in the case under consideration.
In the second section of the act of 1800, " the inhabitants
of the territory shall be entitled to, and enjoy, all and singular
the rights, privileges, and advantages, granted and received by
the said ordinance." This provision was re-enacted in the act
of 3d Februpry 1809, which established the Illinois territory.
By an act 6 congress of the 18th April 1818, the people

JANUARY TERM 1831.
(Menard vs. Aspasia.j

of the territory, were authorized to form a constitution and
state government; and on the 3d December following, by a
joint resolution of the Senate and House of Representatives
the state of Illinois was admitted into the union, " on an equal
Looting with the original states in all respects whatever."
The provision of the ordinance of 1787 prohibiting slavery
was incorporated into the constitution. This provision of the
ordinance, it is contended, could only operate prospectively;
and was never designed to impair vested rights: that such
was the construction uniformly given to it, under the territorial government: that the provision was understood to prohibit the introduction of slaves, into the territory, by purchase or otherwise; but those, who were held in slavery at the
time the ordinance was adopted, were not liberated by it.
That this was the understanding of the people of the territory
at the time the constitution was adopted, it is argued, appears
from the frequent reference made in that instrument, to " free
white male inhabitants," in contra-distinction from those who
were not free; and from a law which was subsequently
passed by the legislature of the state, imposing a tax on slaves.
The rights of persons who claimed a property in slaves, it is
urged, were not affected by the provisions of the ordinance of
1787, or of the constitution; but remain as they were prior to
the adoption of either. That a construction, different from this,
would be destructive of those rights which the citizens of the
country enjoyed under the French and British governments;
and which were guarantied by Virginia, and provided for in
her cession of the country to the union.
The slavery of the mother of Aspasia being established, it
is contended, that, under the ordinance, her offspring must
follow the same condition.
This is, beyond dispute, the principle of the civil law; and
is recognized in Virginia, and other states, where slavery is
tolerated. Whether the same principle be applicable to the
case under consideration, is a question which it may not be
necessary now to determine.
The plaintiff in error insists on his right to the services
of Aspasia as his slave; and attempts to enforce it. To try
this right, the present action was instituted; and a decision
liaving been given against the right, the plaintiff prosecutes a
Vox. V.-3 P

SUPREME COURT.
[AMenard vs. Aspasia.]

writ of error in this court to reverse the judgment. Can thig
court take jurisdiction of the case?,
By the 25th section of the judiciary act, of 1789, it is provided, that "a final judgment or decree, in any suit, in the
highest *courtof law or equity of a state, in which a decision
inthe suit could be had, where is drawn in question the construction of any clause of the constitution, or of any treaty,
or statute of the United States; and the decision is against the
title, right, privilege, &c., under the statute, may be re-examined. and reversed, or affirmed in this court"'
Does the right asserted by the plaintiff in error come
within any of the provisions of this section? Under what
statute of the United States, is the right set up. The answer
must be, under the ordinance of 1787, and the statutes that
have been subsequently enacted, which have a baring on the
.question.
In the second articles of the compact contained in the ordinances) it is provided, that P' no man shall be deprived of his
liberty or property, but by the judgment of his peers."
"And in the just preservation of rights and property, it is understood and declared, that no law ought ever to be made, or
have force in the said territory, that shall in any manner effect private contracts."
This compact was formed between the original states, and
the people of the territory; and that part of\ it which prohibits slavery, is embodied in the constitution of Illinois. In
thus being made a part of the fundamental law of the state, a
guarantee against slavery, of as high obligation as on any other
subjects embraced by the constitution, is given to the people of
the state.
There are various provisions in the compact which are
deeply interesting to the people of Illinois, and which, it is
presumed; no one would contend, could give a supervising
jurisdiction to this court.
In the third article, it is provided, that "religion, morality
aind knowledge, being necessary to good government, and the
happiness of mankind; schools and the means of education,
shall forever be encouraged." And in the third article, " that'
all fines shall be Yaoderate, and no cruel or unusual punishment shall be inflicted." "All persons shall be bailable,

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[Menard us. Aspasia.]

unless for capital offences, where the proof shall be evident or
the presumption great." These, and other provisions, contained in the compact, were designed to secure the rights of.
the people of the territory: as a basis of future legislation, and
to have that moral. and political influence that arises from a
solemn recognition of principles, which li&at the foundation
of our institutions. The same may be said as to the provisions respecting the rights of property.
The provisions in the compact which relate to "property,"
anilto "rights," are general. They refer to no sp'ecific property
u"class of rights. It is impossible, therefore, judicially, to
limit their application. If it were admitted that Aspasia is
the property of the plaintiff in. error, and the court were to
take jurisdiction of the case, under the provisions of the ordinance; must they not, on the same ground, interpose their jurisdiction in all other controversies respecting property
which was acquired in the northwestern territory.
Whatever right may be clained to have originated under
the ordinance of 1787, it would seem, thata right to the involuntary service of an individual could n6t have had its source
in that instrument. It declares, that ccthere shall be neither
slavery nor involuntary servitude in the territory." If this
did not destroy a vested right in slaves, -itat least did not create or strengthen that right.
If the decision of the supreme court of Missouri had been
against Aspasia, it might have been contended, that the rev-."
sing power of this court, under the twenty-fifth section of the
judiciary act, could be exercised.
In such a case, the decision would have been against the express provision of the ordinance, in favour of liberty ; and, on
that ground, if that instrument could be considered, under the
circumstances, as an act of congress, within the twenty-fifth
section, the jurisdiction of this court would be unquestionable.
But the decision was not against, but in favour of the express provision of the ordinance. Was it opposed to any other
part of the instrument ? It is possible, that opposing rights
may arise out of the same instrument, although it contain no
contradictory provisions.
The right asserted by the plaintiff in error had not its origin under any express'proyision of the ordinance. It is only

SUPREME COURT.
[Menard vs. Aspasia.]

contended, that that instrument did not destroy this right,
which had its commencement in other laws and compacts. A
sanction of the right, implied more from the force of construction than the words used in the ordinance, is all that can be
urged.
No substantial ground of difference is perceived between the
assertion of any other right to property, and that which is set
up in the present case. The provisions of the ordinance will
equally apply to every description of claim to property, personal or real. And if, from the general provisions respecting
property, this court shall take jurisdiction in this case; on the
same principle it may revise the decisions qf the supreme
courts of Illinois, Indiana and Ohio: at least, in all. cases which
involve rights that existed under the territorial government.
Give perpetuity to this general provision, and eopsider it as
binding upon the people 'of these states; and it must have an
important bearing upon their interests.
Instead of looking to their constitutions as the fundamental
lav , they must look to the ordinance of 1787. In this instrument, their rights are defined, and their privileges guarantied.
And, instead of finding an end of legal controversies respecting
property, in the decisions of their own courts of judicature,
they must look to this court.
This cannot be the true construction of this instrument. Its
g-neral provisions, as to the rights of property, cannot give
jurisdiction to this court. They do not come within the twenty-fifth section of the judiciary act. The complaint is not that
property has been taken from the plaintiff in error, in the language of the ordinance, "without the judgment of his peers ;)o
nor, that his right has been affected by any law of the territory,
or of the state.
It iS not pretended that his fight, whatever it may be, is
not secured as fully .under the constitution and laws of Illinois, as under the ordinance. In support of his claim, a reference is made to the judicial decisions of the state, under its
own laws.
If, then, a suit be brought by a citizen of Illinois to enforce
a right in the courts of Missouri, which exists to as great an
extent under the constitution and laws of the state of Illinois,
as in the territori-al government, under the ordinance; and a

JANUARY TERM 1831.

517

[Menard vs. Aspasia.)

decision be given against the right, can the party asserting it,
ask the interposition of this court?
The prosecution of this writ of error presents the qiiestion
to this court, in the same point of view, as if the suit in Missouri had been commenced by the plaintiff in error.
His title does not arise under an act of congress. This is essential to givejurisdiction, under this head. It is not enough
to give jurisdiction, that the act of congress did not take
away a right, which previously existed. Such an act cannot
be said to give the right, though it may not destroy it.
This suit must therefore be dismissed, as this court has no
jurisdiction of the case.

