JANUARY TERM 1831.

THE UNITED STATES, PLAINTIFFS IN E]IRoR vs. THOMAS
TINGEY, DEFENDANT IN.ERROR.
There is no statute of the United States expressly defining the diuties of pursers in the navy. What those duties are, except so far as they are incidentally
disclosed in public laws, cannot be judicially known to this court. If they are
regulated by the usage and customs of the navy, or by the official orders of the
navy department, they properly constitute matters of averment, and should be
spread upon the pleadings.
A bond, voluntarily given to the United States and not prescribed by law, is a
valid instrument upon the parties to it, in point of law. The United States
have in their political capacity a right to enter into a contract, or to take a bond
in cases not previously provided by law. It is an incident to the general right
of sovereignty; and the United States being a body politic, may, within the
sphere of the constitutional powers confided to it, and through the instrumentality of the proper department to which those powers are confided, enter into
contracts not prohibited by law, and appropriate to the just exercise of those
powers. To adopt a different principle would be to deny the ordinary rights
of sovereignty, not merely to the general government, but even to the state
governments, within the proper sphere of their own powers; unless brought
into operation by express legislation. A doctrine to such an extent is not
known to this court, as ever having been sanctioned by any judicial tribunal.
A voluntary bond taken by authority of the'proper officers of the treasury department to whom the disbursement of public money is entrusted, to secure the
fidelity in official duties of a receiver or an agent for disbursing of public moneys, is a binding contract between him and his sureties, and the United States;
although such bond miy not be prescribed or required by any positive law.
The right to take'such a bond is an incident to the duties belonging to such a
department, and the United States being authorized in a political capacity to
take It, there is no objection' to Its validity in a moral or a legal sense.
Where the United States instituted an action for The recovery of a sum of money
on a bond- given with sureties by a purser in the navy, and the defendants, in
substance, pleaded that the bond, with the condition thereto, was variant from
that prescribed by law, and was under colour of office extortedficom the obli.
gor and his sureties contrary to the statute,by the then secretazy of the navy,
as the condition of the purser's remaining in office and receiving its emoluments ; and the United States demurred to this plea; it was held that the plea
constituted a good bar to the action.
No officer of the government has a right by colour of his office to require from
any subordinate officer as a condition of his holding his office, that he should
execute a bond with a condition differcat from that prescribed by law. That
would be, not to execute, but to supersede the requisites of the law. If would
be very different Where such a bond was, by mistake or otherwise, voluntarily
substituted by the parties for the statute bond, without any coercion or extorlion by colour of office.

ERROR to the circuit court of the district of Columbia, for
the county of Washington.

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States tzs. Tingey.]

This suit was instituted in the bircuit court by the United
States against Thomas Tingey as one of the sureties of Lewis
Deblois, wh9 had been appointed a purser in the navy of the
United States.
The declaration first filed was in the common form of debt
on a joint and several bond, and the defendants prayed-oyer of
the bond and condition, and pleaded eight several pleas. On
the first, second, and seventh pleas, issues in fact were joined;
aifd to the other pleas the United States demurred generally.
The circuit court overrpled the demurrers and gave judgment
against the United States, who prosecuted this writ of error.
Pending the pleadings, the district attorney of the United
States filed another count to the declaration, in which the bond
and the condition were set forth, with averments that Lewis
Deblois was a purser in the navy of the United States; that he
received large sums of money in that capacity, and that he had
refused to account for the same, according tothe provisions of
the laws of the United States, &c. By agreement of counsel
all.the pleadings were considered as applicable to this as well
as to the firstcount in the declaration.
The bond was executed on the 1st -day of May 1812 by
Lewis Deblois, Thomas Tingey,. Franklin Wharton, Elias B.
Caldwell, William Brent and Frederick May, in the sum of
ten thousand dollars. The condition was as follows:
" The condition of the above obligation is such, that if the
said above bound Lewis Deblois shall regularly account, when
thereunto required, for all public moneys received by him from
time to time, and for all public property committed to his
care, with such person or persons, officer or officers of the government of the United States as shall be duly aufthorised to
settle and adjust his accounts; and shall moreover pay over, as
he may be directed, any sum or sums that may be found due
to the United States upon such settlement ol settlements, and
shall faithfully discharge in every respect the trust reposed, in
him, then the obligation to be void and of no effect, otherwise
to remain in full force and virtue.'"
The following indorsement was made upon the bond:
"It is expressly understood and agreed between the secretary of the navy (acting in behalf o the United Sfates) and
the within named obligors, that the said obligors are not to be

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[The United States vs., Tingey.]

held responsible for any loss that may be.sustained in the
moneys or public property committed to'the pare of the within
named Lewis Deblois as purser, by any capture, sinking or
stranding, or other unavoidable casualty; or if,-by any such
circumstance or event, the said purser' should be deprived of
his books and papers, and be thereby rendered incapable of'
producing the necessary evidence or means of accounting for
the public money or property with which he may be charged,,the said obligors shall be exonerated on producing satisfactory
evidence of the facts, unless it.
can be shown that the money
or public property has been misapnlied or diverted .from the,
public service."
The third plea -demurred to by the United States set forth,
that " every neglect, failure or omission whatsoever of the said
Lewis Deblois regularly-to account, as in and by the said condition is required, and to pay over such sum or sums of money
as in and by the said condition is also required, or in any other'
manner or respect whatsoever to discharge the trust repbsed
in him, as in and by the said condition is also required, was
caused by and the direct consequence of the gross and wilful
neglect and wrong and illegal acts of the properofficers of tlie
government of the United States, under whose coitrol and
direction all the public moneys and. public property received
by the said Lewis Deblois, and committed-to his charge, at
any time or times, after the sealing and" delivery afbresaid,:
were plAced by the authority of tho plaintiffs, and who were
duly authorised to settle and adjust his accounts, and to superintend, direct and control the discharge of the trust reposed
in him as aforesaid, to the manifest and 'grievous injury and
defraudink of the said defendant, &c.?"
The fourth -plea alleged, that after the 13th day of Marcli
1812, and before the 1st day of May in the same year, and
before the execution of the bond, .Lewis Deblois-was duly appointed a purser in the navy, and continued in the service
until the Ist of March 1817,-and continued andso contintles
in the service, and to discharge the duties of purser, and'that
all the moniey and all public property received by him, or for
which he was accountable after the execution of the bond,
were received by him. and committed to his care as such purser i%virtue of.his said appointment) and in. discharge of the

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States vs. Tiogey.J

trust reposed in him as such purser, and not otherwise, and
that no money or public property was committed to him but
as purser under the said appointment. And, &c.
The fifth plea alleges that the defendant ought not to be
charged with the said writing obligatory, or any thing therein
contained, because the act of congress of the I 3th day of March
1812 required, that the pursers in the navy of the United
States, shall be appointed by the president of the United
States) by and with the advice and consent of the senate;
and from and after the 1st day of May next, no person
shall act in the character of purser who shall not have been
thus first nominated and appointed, excepting persons on distant service, who shall not remain in service after the 1st
day of July next, unless nominated and appointed as aforesaid. And every person, before entering upon'the duties of
-his office, shall give bond with two or more sufficient sureties,
in the penalty of ter thousand dollars,. conditioned faithfully
to perform all the duties of purser in the navy of the United
States, which said law was in full force and unrepealed on the
1st day of May in the said year, when the said obligation
was ,so as aforesaid executed and delivered. Arid the said defendant further says, that protesting that the said Lewis Deblois was not so appointed by the president of the United
States by and with the advice and consent of the senate, as in
and by said act of congress is required; yet he further says,
that after the passing of the said act, and before the day of the
date of the ensealing and delivery of the said writing obligatory, the navy department of the United States did cause the
said writing obligatory to be prepared, and to be transmitted
to the said Lewis Deblois, and did require and demand of him
that the said writing obligatory, and the condition thereunder'
written, shoifld be executed by the said Lewis Deblois, with
sufficient sureties, before he should be permitted to-remain in'
the said office of purser, or to receive the pay and emoluments
attached to said office of -purser; and the said defendant further in fact says, that the said condition so as aforesaid underwritten is variant and wholly different from the condition
required in and by the said act of congress, and varies- and
enlarges the duties and responsibilities of the said Lewis Deblois- and his sureties, and that the same was under colour and

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[The United States vs. Tingey.]

pretence of said act of congress, and under colour of office
required and extorted from Lewis Deblois, and from the defendant as one of his sureties, against the form, &c. of the
statute by the then secretary of the navy, wherefore he says
the said writing obligatory is void and illegal, and this, &c.
The sixth plea alleges that the condition of the bond is
wholly variant and diferent from the condition which by law
ought to have been required, and imposed othcr and different
respnsibilities upon Deblois and on his sureties, and that the
said writing obligatory and the condition was prepared by and
under the directions of the secretary of the navy of the United
States, and was by him transmitted to DeblDis, and he, Deblois, was then and there required to execute the same and the
illegal conditionlIefore'he would he deemed and recognized as
a purser -in the navy- of the United States, or permitted to
receive any pay or emoluments as such, under colour and, pretence- of law, and under colour of the office-ofi the said secretary of the navy; whereby- as the defendant averred, the said
writing obligatory, and the condition there underwritten is
wholly void and of no effect. And this, &c.
The eighth plea alleges that the United States ought not to
maintain their action, -beca:use by the act of congress of 13th
March 1812, it was among other Ihings enacted, that every
purser, before entering upon the duties of his office, shall give
bond with two or more sufficient sureties, in the penalty pf ten
thousand dollas, conditioned faithfully to perform all the duties ot purser in the navy of the United States, which said
act-of congress was in full force and unrepealed at the time
when the said- Lewis Deblois was. appointed purser in the
navy, 'and also at the time when the said writing obligatory
was sealed and delivered by this defendant, and for a long time
thereafter, to wit until 1817; and the defendant says,. that
the said -Deblois, before entering upon the duties of his office
or at any time thereafter, was not required to give bond in
manner and form as is prescribed as aforesaid, nor did he give
such bond; without'this that the said Deblois received any
funds, property or money from said plaintiffs, in any other
right, capacity or character, than as such purser, or was, in any
other right, capacity or character, bound to keep, preserve,
disburse and account for the same. And this$ &C.

120

SUPkEME COURT.
[The United States vs. Tingey.]

The ease was argued by Mr Berrien, attorney general, and
Mr Swann, district attorney, for the United States; and by
Mr Coxe and Mr Jones for the defendant.
For the plaintiffs in error it was contended, that the pleadings on the part of the United States properly set forth the
bond and the indorsement upon it, the indorsement being a
part of the bond. "1 Wash. Rep. 14. Upon the declaration
it appears that Deblois was appointed a purser in the United
States; and as-such received large sums of money, for which
he has failed to account
As to the pleas to which demurrers were entered, it was argued that the third plea alleges the failure of Deblois to account
arose from the gross and- wilful negligence of the officers of the
United States, under the control and direction of whom were
placed the moneys .and public property in the hands of Deblois.
To this it is'answered, thaf negligence cannot be imputed to
the United States; and if it were so imputable, it is not sufficiently pleaded. it is not shown in what manner, or how
the negligence arose, or in what it consisted. The rule is,
that what is alleged in pleading must be alleged with certainty.
Cited 9 Wheat. 720; 10 Wheat. 184; Stephens on Pleading, 342.

If the fourth plea is intended to raise the question whether
Lewis D.eblois was legally an officer of the United States, as
purser, after the'ist of May 1817, he not having given the
.new bond required by the act of March 1817; it is answered,
that -the act is director to the officers of the government,
and their failure to comply with its ' requirements cannot release the sureties in the bond which they executed. The
United States vs. Vanzandt, 10 Wheat. 184, &c.
The remaining pleas present the question of the validity of
the bond, on the ground that it does not. conform to the act
of 1812.
It may be well argued that the fifth plea is altogether deficientin form. If is bad for duplicity; but as it was- important
to have the question determined which is raised by it, -ageneral
demurrer was entered.
A statutoiy bond, the condition of which varies from the'

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[The United States vs. Tingey.]

form prescribed by the stattite, is not therefore altogether void.
It is good so far as it conforms 'to the statute; and if void, it
is only so as to the residue. A voluntary bond, taken without the authority of the statute, is good; a bond required
colore officii may be a voluntary bond, and is so, unless it be
obtained by fraud, circumvention, or oppression. It is admitted that the defendant's plea alleges -that this bond was,
under colour and pretence of the act of congress, and under
colour of office, required and extorted from Deblois; and there
is a general demurrer to this plea. But a -demurrer admits
only the facts which are pleaded. This demurrer admits that
the bond was required by the stcretary of the navy, acting
under the authority given by the statute. Whether insisting
on this bond was extortion, is a question of law arising on the
facts, which is not admitted by the demurrer.
It is contended that a bond voluntarily given by a public
officer, conditioned for the faithful performance of the duties
of his office, is valid; although required by no particular statute.
If this is not so, it must be, *1. Because the absence of an
express statutory authority to requite the bond renders its
.condition unlawful; or 2. Because the government is incompetent to become a party to such a bond.
A reference to cases establishes the following positions:
1. That a bond given by or to a public officer, or to the government,-is not invalid mer.ely because there was no law
which specifically authorls~d the one to demand, or required
the other to give it: that it is only void*when the condition
is against law, requiring something to be done which is malum
in se autmalum prohibitum; or the emission of a duty; or the
encouragement of such crimes or misdemeanours.
2. That although a statute which authorises a bond to be
taken may have specified the terms of the condition; it does
not therefore render void a bond voluntarily given, though the
condition be variant from that prescribed by the statute.
3. That a bond is not less voluntary because it has been required by a public officer, but not contrary to law. Mitchell
vs. Reynolds, 1 Peere Wms. 181. 1 Inst. 206. Palm. 172.
Norton vs. Sims, Hob. .1. Fitzherbert's Aprid. 13. Dyer,
18. 2 Strange, 7,5; 1137. Rex vs. Bradford, 2 Lord Ray.
VOL. V.-Q

SUPREME COURT.
tThe United States vs. Tingey.]

1327. The African Companymvs. Torrane, 6 T. R. 588. 2
Dall. 118. The Commonwealth Vs. Wolbert, 6 Binn. 292.
Morse vs. Hodson, 5 Mass. 314. Thomas vs. White, -12
Mass. 367.
It is competent to the government of the United States to
become a party to a voluntary bond executed by one of its
officers, without any authority given by a legislative act. It
is essentially incident to Sovereignty, without any express
grant, thht such a power shall exist. According to the cases.
which have been referred to, such a power belongs to a corporation; to a subordinate agent of the government; and, a fortiori, it belongs to the' government itself. The Postmaster
General vs. Early, 12 Wheat. 136. Dugan vs, The United
States, 3 Wheat. 172.
If the government or an officer on their behalf can make the
United States parties to a bill of exchange; can vest in them
the legal title to such a bill as indorser; and this without legislative authority; why may -they not in like manner' become
obligees in a bond. Is the. capacity of. the government less
than that of a corporation, or of a subordinate officer, r of a
private individual?
It has been the constant practice of the government to take
suth bonds, without express legislative authority; and it has
been the understanding of congress that such bonds were regular.. In many acts bonds are directed to be taken, without
the form or the person to whom they are to be taken being
specified. The bonds taken from marshals, registers, receivers and surveyors, are of this description.
If the United States are competent to become parties to such
a bond without legislative requisitions, it is equally true that
the right to direct or require such a-bond belongs to the executive. It is a part of its'constitutional power: nor does the
circumstance that*the authority df the legislature mav .also
direct the taking of a particular bond negrtive the existence
of such a power. The president is enjoined "to take care that
the laws be faithfully executed." In the performance of this
trust, he not only may, but he is bound -to avail himself of
evbry appropriate means not forbidden by law. When alaw is
passed authorising the appointment of an offider, or appropriating money to-be disbursed under the direction of the presi-

JANUARY TERM 1831.
{The United States vs. Tingey.]

dent, are not the duties of the executive such as to impose
upon him the appointment of agents to perform the trusts reposed in him; and-is not the authority to take security for the
faithful exercise of such agencies necessarily included in the
power of appointment? The subordinate agents of the executive act under the authority of the chief magistrate; their acts
are presumed to be his acts.
This bond was taken under the direction of the president to
secure the performance of the trust committed to the officer;
in the language of the constitution to 4 take care that the
If the means be appropriate to
laws be faithfully executed."
the end, does not the injunction to use such means flow from
the constitution, and is it not therefore imperative? Could
congress increase the obligation, or give greater validity to the
act by reiterating the mandate? It is upon these principles
claimed that this bond is valid as a voluntary bond, although
not required by any statute.
Is it a voluntary bond; or was it obtained by fraud, circumvention, or oppression?
The bond was required by the secretary of the navy, in the
performance of. his duty; and was voluntarily given by the
parties to it. The cases whidh have 'been cited show that if
parties submit to the requisition of a bond of this character,
they are bound by it. The decision of this court in Speake
vs. The United States, 9 Cranch, 28, establishes the principle
that a bond required by a public officer, and given in conformity to that requisition, is still a voluntary bond, unless it
be obtained by fraud, circumvention or oppression. There is'
no pretence that arty such means were used in this case. The
government and people of the United States are interested
to enforce the faithful discharge of public duty by those who
are entrusted'to perform.it. They have a right to requrre it,
and dre entitled to be indemnified for a failure to comply with
the requisition.
The bond was autloiHsed by law. It is hlleged there is a
variance between the condition prescribtd by the iit an-d that
inserted'in the bond. This is denied. It is contended that
the condition.of the bond conforms substantially to that required by the act. The condition and the indorsement taken
together clearly show that the whole object of the bond was

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States vs. Tin, ey.]

to provide foi the full performance o those duties imposed
upon Deblois by his station, and if mLre is required than the
law authorised, the whole of the condition does not become
void thereby; but that part which is lawful and authorised
remains operative. Shep. Touchstone, 70. Piggot's case, 11
Coke, 27. Yale vs. The King, 5 Vin. 99. Armstrong vs.
The United States, 1 Peters'd C. C. Rep. 46.
The condition prescribed by the act is "faithfully to perform the duties of purser in the navy of the United States."
The condition'of the bond taken is, that Lewis Deblois "shall
regularly account, when thereunto required, for all public
moneys received by him from time to time, ind for all public
property committed to his care, with such person or persons,
officer or officers of the goverument'of the United States, as
shall be duly authorised to settle and adjust his accounts, and
shall moreover pay over, as he may be directed, any sum or
sums of money that may be found due to the United States
upon any such settlement, and shall also faithfully discharge i
every respect the trust reposed in him."
. There is no one of these requisitions which is not strictly
within the duties of a purser of the United States: 1. Regularly to account, when requ'ired, for all public moneys received
by him from time-to time, and for all- public property committed to his care. 2. To account with such person or persons, officer or officers of the government, as shall be duly
authorised to settle -and adjust his accounts. 3. To pay over,
as he may* be directed, any sum or sums of money that may
be found due to the United States, on any such settlement.
4. Faithfully to dischargej in every respect, the trust reposed
in him. These are Lll the requisitions in the bond.
Mr Coxe and. Mr Jones, for the defendant in error, stated,
that if there was any thing inapplicable in the pleas to the declaration, it arose from the circumstance that these pleas were
entered to the first count; and the second.count having been
aterwards added, these pleas were suffered to remain, as it
was not considered that any material variance in the case was
presented by the additional count.
They contendea, I. That at common law such a bond as that
upon which this suit was brought has no validity, indepenatent
of the facts in avoida-ice set forth in the pleas.

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[The United States vs. Tingey.]
2. That the bond varies from that authorised by the statute;
and that such a variance renders it of itself void.
3. That having fieen 6xtorted colore officii, it is void.
4. That sufficient facts are set forth in the pleas to justify
a non-compliance with the terms prescribed in the condition.
1. At common law the bond is void. No bond is valid
which is given to the king by an officer for the faithful performance of his duties as an officer. 5 Com. Dig. 219, 207.
If the bond is made valid by the statute, it must be by its
conformity to the requisitions oT tjie statute. But this bond
'does not in any part of it purport to be a statutory bond. It
does -not recite that Deblois was a purser; it has no reference
to any public office or public duty. He is faithfully to discharge the trusts reposed in him, without designating what
the same are.
2. A statutory bond not conforming, to the requisites
of the statute is void. If the principle of the common
law, which has been contended for, is correctly stated, every
bond required by statute must pursue its requisites. The
United States vs. Hipkins, 2 Hall's Law Journal. 3 Wash.
Rep. 10. Speake vs. The United States, 9 Cranch, 39.
3. The bond having been extorted colore olfflii, is void.
The demurrer to this plea admits the allegation that the bond
was extorted. Until it was executed, Deblois could not execute the duties of purser. The United States having demurred to the plea charging the extortion of the bond are estopped to deny it; and the defendant is entitled to the benefits of
such an admission. Cited 7 Cranch, 227. 3 Inst. 149, c. 69.

Mr Justice STORy delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is a writ of error to the circuit court of thd district of
Columbia, sifting at Washington. The original action was
brought by the United States upon a bond executed br Lewis
Deblois,-and by Thomas Tingey and others as his sdireties, on
the 1st of May 1812, in the penal sun of ten thousand dollars,
upon condition that-if Deblois should regularly account, when
thereto required, for all public moneys received by him from
time to time, and for all public property committed to his care,
with such person or persons, officer or officers of the government of the United States as should be duly authorised to set-

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States vs. Tingey.]

tle and adjust his accounts, and should moreover pay over, as
nfight be directed, any sum or sums that might be found due
to the United States upon any such settlement or settlements,
and should also faithfully discharge, in every respect, the trust
reposed, in him, then the obligation to be void, &c. In point
of fact, Deblois was it the time a purser in the navy, though
not so stated in the condition; and there is an indorsement
upon the bond, which is averred in one of the counts of the
declaration to have been contemporaneous with the execution
of thd bond, which recognizes his character as purser, and
limits his responsibility as such; and the ,bond was unquestionably.taken, as the pleadings show, to secure his fidelity in
office as purser.
The declaration contains two counts: one in the common
form for the penalty of the ndnd; and a second setting forth
the bond, condition and indersement, and averringthe character of Deblois, as purser, his receipt of public moneys, and
the refusal to account, &e., in the usual form.
Several pleas were pleaded, apon some of which issues in fact
were joined. To the third, fTurth, fifth, sixth and eighth pleas,
the United States demurred, and judgment upon the demurrers
was given for the defendant in the circuit court; and the object
of the present writ of error fs to revise that judgment.
There is no statute of the United- States expressly defining
the duties of pursers in the navy. What those duties are,
except so far as they are incidentally disclosed in public laws,
cannot be judicially known to this court. If they are regulatedlby the usages and citstoms of the navy, or by the official
orders of the navy department, they properly constitute matters of averinent, apd should be spread upon the pleadings.
It may be gathered, however, from some of the public acts
regulating the departments, that a purser, or as the real name
originally was, a burser, is a disbursing officer, and liable to
account to the government as such. T, act of the 3d of
March 1819, ch. 95, sec. 3, provided, that, exclusively of the
purveyor of public su 'plies, paymasters of the army, pursers
of the navy, &c., no other permanent agents should be ap,pointed. either for thepurpose of"makin'g contracts, or for the
purchase of supplies, or for the disbursemrent in any other
ihanner of moneys for the use of the military establishment, or

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[The United States vs. Tingey.]

of .the navy of the United States; but -such as should ba-appointed by the president of the United States with the advice
*and consent of the serrate. And the next section (s.,4) of the
lame act provided that every such agent, and every purser of
the navy should give bond, with one or more sureties, in Buch
sums as the president of the United States should direct, for
the faithful discharge of the trust reposed in him; and that,
whenever practicable, they should 'keep the public money in
their hands in some incorp-orated. bank, to be designated by
the president, and should make monthly returnsto the treasury of the moneys receiveal @nd expended during the preceding month, and of the unexpended-balance in their hands.
This act abundantly shows that pursers are contemplated as
disbursing officers and receivers of public money, liable to
account to the government therefor. The act.of the 30th of
March 1812, ch. 47, made some alterations in the existing
law, and -required that the pursers in tWe navy shiould be appointed by the president, by-and with the advice and consen t
of the senate; and that from and after-the 1st day'of May then
next, no person should act in the character of purser who
should not have been so nominated and appointed, except-pursers on .distant servite, -&c.;- and that every purser,-before
entering upon the duties of. his office, should give bond with
two or more sufficient sureties, in the penalty of ten thousand
dollars conditioned faithfully to perform all the duties of purser in the navy of the United States. This act, 'so far as respects pursers giving bond, and the impQrts of the condition,
being in pari materia, olierates as a virtual repeal of the forme
act. The subsequent legislation of congress is unimportant;
as it does not apply to the presefit case.
It is obvious that the condition of the present bond is not
in the, terms -prescribed by the act of 1812, ch. 47, and it is
not limited to the duties or disbursement. of Deblois as purser,
but creates a liability for all moneys received by him, and for
all public property committed to his care, whother officially
as purser, or otherwise.
Upon this.posture of the case a question has been made and
elaborately argued at the lbar, how far a bond voluntarily given
to the United States, and not prescribed by law, is a valid instrument, binding upon the parties in point of law; in other

SUPREME COURT.
(Th" United States vs. Tingey.]

words, whether'the United States have, in their political capacity,'a right to enter into. a contract, or to take a bond in
cases not previously provided for by some law. Upon full consideration of this subject, we are of opinion that the United
States have such a capacity-to enter.into contracts. It is in
our opinion an .incident to the general right of sovereignty;
an4 the United States-being a- bddy politic, may, within the
sphere of the constitutional powers confided "to it, and through
the instrumen{ality of the proper -department to which 'those
powers are confided, enter -into contracts not prohibited by
law, and appropriate tQ the just exercise of those powers.
This principle has been already acted on by this court in the
case of Dugan, Exec. vs. The United States, 3 Wheat. Rep.
172; and it is not perceived that there lies any solid obectionto.it. To adopt a different principle, would -be to. deny tie
ordinary-rights of sovereignty, rot merely to the gerieral-government, but even to the state governments within the proper
sphere of their own powers, unless.brought intonoperation by
express legislation. A doctrine,,to 'such an' extent, is not known
to this court as ever having been sanctioned by any judicial
tribunal.
We have stated'the general principle onlyiwithoitt attempting to enumerate the limitations and exceptions, 'which may'
arise from the distribution of powers in our government, dr
from the operation of other provisions. in our constitution xid
laws. "Weconfiie ourselves in the application of the principle
to,. e facts of th'present case, leaving other cases to be disposed of as, tkey may arise; and we hold that a voluntary- bond
taken by authority of the proper officers of the treasury department, to- whorQthe disbursement pf public moneys is
entrusted, to secure the fidelity in official duties of a receiver or
an agent for disbtirsery of public moneys, is a binding contract
between him and. his sureties, and the United States; although
suh bond may not be prescribed or required by any positive
lan. The rilght to take such a 'bond. is in ou' view an incident to.the 'duties'-belonging to such a department; and the
tnited States iaving, a political capacity to take it, we see no
objection to- its validity in a moral or a legal view.
Having disposed of -this'.question, which- lies at the very
threshold of the eause,'aind meets us upon thee face of the se-

JANUARY TERM 1831
[The United States vs. Tingey.]

cond count inthe declaration, it remains to consider whether
any one of the pleas demurred to constitutes a good bar to the
action.
Without adverting to nthers, which are open to serious objections on account of the looseness, and generality of their
texture, we are of opfbion that the fifth plea is a complete answer to the action. TPhat plea, after setting forth at large the
act of 1812 respetin; pursers, proceeds to state that before
the exeutiofi of the 'bond, the navy department did cause the
tame to be prepared. and transmitted to Deblois, and did require and demand of him that the same, with the condition,
shwldobe executed by him with. sufficient sureties, before he
should, be permitted. to remain inthe office of purser, or to
receive the pay and emoluments attached to the office of purser;
that the condition of the bond is variant, and wholly different
from the, condition required by the said act of congress, and
varies and enlarges the duties and responsibilities of Deblois
and his sureties; and "that the same was under colour and
pretence of the said act of congress, and under colour of office
required and extorted' from the said Deblois, and from the
defendant, as one of .his sureties, against the form, force and
effect of the said statute, by the then secretary of the navy."
The substance of this plea is, that the bond, with the above
cojAditin, Variant from that prescribed by law, was under
colour of office extorted from Deblois and his sureties, contrary
to the statute, by the then secretary.of the navy,'as the condition of his remaining in the office of purser, and receiving its
emoluments. There is no pretence then to say that it was a
bond voluntarily given, or that though different from the form
prescribed by the statute, it was received and executed without
objection. It was demanded of the party, upon the peril of
losing his office; it was extorted under colour of office, against
the requisitions of the statute., It was plainly then an illegal
bond; for no officer of the government has a right, by colour
of his office, to require from any subordinate officery as a condition of holding office, that he should execute a bond with a
condition different from that prescribed by law. That would
be, not to execute, but to supersede the requisitions of law.
It would be very different where such a bond was by mistake
V9L. V.-R

130

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States t,. Tingey.]

or otherwise voluntarily substituted by the parties for the
statute bond, without any coercion or extortion by colour of
office.
The judgment of the circuit court is affirmed.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the circuit court of the United States for the
district of Columbia, holden in and for the county of Washington, and was argued by counsel. Onconsideration whereof,
it is considered, ordered and adjudged by this court, that the
judgment of the said circuit court in this cause be and the same
is hereby affirmed.

