SUPREME COURT.

358

JOHN TAYLOE,

PLAINTu1

rx ERRon vs. EDWAnD

THom-

soN's LEssmE, DEFENDANT IN ERORl.
It seems there is no act of assembly of Maryland which declares a judgment to be
a lien on real estate, before execution issued and levied. But by an act of parliament of 5 George II, ch. 7, lands in the colonies are subject to execution as
chattels, in favour of British merchants. This statute has been adopted and in
use in Maryland ever since its passage, as"the only one'under which lands have
been taken in execution and sold.
It is admitted, that though this statute extends in terms only to executions in
favour of British merchants, it has long received an equitable construction applying it to all judgment creditors; and that this construction has been uniform
throughout the state.
As congress has made no new law on this subject, the circuit court were bound
to decide this case according to the law of Maryland, which does not consist
merely of enactments of their own or the statutes of England, in force or adopted by the legislature. The decisions of their courts; the settled and uniform
practice and usage nf the state in the practical operation of its provisions, evidencing the judicia construction of its terms; are to be considered is a part of
the statute, and as such furnish a rule for the decisions of the federal courts.
The statute and its interpretation form together a rule of title and, property,
which must be the same in all courts. Itis enough.for this courtto know that
by ancient, well established, and uniform usage, it has been acted on and considered as extending to all judgments in favour of any persons, and that sass
under them have always been held and respected as valid.
Though the statuteof 5 George II, does not provide that ajudgment shail be a
lien from the time of its rendition, yet there is abundant evidence that it has
always been so considered and acted on.
The plaintiff iia a judgment has an undoubted right to an execution against the
person and the personal or real property of the defendant: he has his election;
but his adoption of any one does preclude him from resorting to the otber, if he
does not obtain satisfaction of the debt on the first executiQn. His remedies
are cumulative and successive; which he may pursue until he reaches that point
at which the law declares his debt satisfied.
A capias ad satisfaciendum executed, does not extinguish the debt for which :it
issued. If the defendant escape, or is discharged by operation of law, the
judgment retains its lien, and may be enforced on'the property of the defendant; the cred ioray retake him iF he escape, or sue the sheriff.
We know of no rule of law which deprives the plaintiff in a judgment of one
remedy by the pursuit of another, or of all which the law gives him. The
doctrine of election, if it exists in any case of a creditor, unless under the
statutes of bankruptcy, has never been applied to a case of a defendant discharged under an insolvent act, by operation of law.
The greatest effect which the law gives to a commitment on a capias ad satisfaciendum is a suspenaion.of the other remedies during its continuance: whenever it terminates without the consent of the creditor, the plaintiff is restored
to them as fully as if he had never made use of any.

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[Tayloe -vs. Thomson.]

The escape of the defendant by his breach ofprison bounds could not effect the
lien of the judgment: the plaintiff was not bound to resort to the prison bond
as his only remedy: a judgment on-it against the defendant was no bar to proceeding by fieri facias.
The 5th section of the act of congress for tte relief of insolvent debtors declares,
"4hat no.process against the rzal or personal property of the debtor shall have
any effect or operation,except process of execution and attachment in the nature of execution, which sball have been put into the hands o the marshal
antecedent to the application." The application of this clause in the section
was intended only for a case where one creditor sought to obtain a preference
'byprocess against the debtor's property after his application. In such case, the
execution shall have no effect or operation'; but where the incumbrance or lien
had attached before the application, it had'a priority of payment out of the assigned fund.

ERROR to the circuit court of the county_f Washington
in the district of Columbia.
This was an ejectment broug~t by the defendant in error in
the circuit court for the recovery of a lot of ground in the
city of Washington. The defendant pleaded the general issue,
and on the trial a verdict was given for ithe plaintiff below,
subject to the opinion of the court on a case agreed, which is
stated at large in the opinion of the court.
The case was argued by MIr Jones for the plaintiff in error;
and Mr Key and Mr Dunlop for the defendant.
For the plaintiff it was said, that the faqts exLibited an extreme case, which brings up, under the strongest cireumstances against it, the question of the continued lien on lands of
a judgment upon which execution has not been issued. The
purchaser of a lot of ground, in possession under 4 complete
title'from the former owner,-is to be deprived of it by a judgment creditor of his grantor; who having exhausted all the
personal remedies against his debtor, seeks to go back on his
judgment, and to proceed against the real estate sold and conveyed, for a full and legal consideration, six years before.
It is not intended to raise the question, whether any lien
on lands exists under a judgment. A party having a judgment may elect to bind the lands, and he may proceed against
them; the statute having made lands subject to execution as
personalty. The statute of 5 George II, ch. 7, made lands in
the colonies subjett to such execution in favour of British
merchantff? and althbugh various constructions have been given

SUPREMfl COURT.
[Tayloe vs. Thomson.]

to thatstatute in the different states of the United States;' in
Maryland it has been held to subject lands in general to execution and sale.
But while it is admitted that lands in Maryland are generally held to be subject to sale under the lien of a judgment; no
decisions of the courts of Maryland are to be found, by which
this liability has been judicially established. The true conBtruction of the- statute is therefore within the power of this
court; and a common error as to its interpretation, if such
error exists, will not support the mistaken interpretation,
however universal it may be: even if it had gone into judicial
application it will be corrected. 5 Randolph's Reports, 53.
The.principle on which the plaintiff below rests his claim
is, that the judgment created a general lien on the land of the
defendant in the judgment; which continued and subsisted
until the debt was satisfied, or a sale was made of the land
under the judgment.
It is coiitended that the acts of the plaintiff amounted to a
relinquishment of this lien;, and that the proceedings under
the judgment against the debtor, with the effects of these proceedings, operated as an abandonment of the lien; and that the
surrender of his effects under the insolvent law was a satisfaction of the lien.
The first process under the judgment was a capias ad
satisfacienaum; under 'which the body of the defendant
was taken and committed to prison. Originally, at the
common law, execution of the body was satisfaction of the
debt, except there was an escape, or the party died in prison.
The defendant Glover having broken the prison rules, an action-was brought on the bonds given by him, and the same
was prosecuted to judgment. The effect of these proceedings
was to cancel the lien of the judgment on the real estate of
the debtor. The. plaintiff in the judgment has elected to
proceed against the person of his debtorand by these proceedings, and by the subsequent discharge of the defendant under
"the insolvent law, his powers under the judgment were ex"hausted.
For the plaintiff in error it was ilso contended. that the
operation o the insolvent law was to annul the judgment
against the land, so fai as to deprive the- plaintiff in the suit

JANUARY TERM 1831.
'Tayloe vs. Thorason.]

of the right to proceed by execution against the land, the surrender of the property of the debtor, being a satisfaction of the
judgment. This is the express operation of the fifth section
of the insolvent law; which directs the sale of the'property of
the insolvent by the trustee, who, after satisfyiirg all incumbrances and liens, shall divide the estate of the insolvent
among the creditors, in proportion to their respective claims:
and which declares "' that no process against the real or personal property of the debtor, shall have any effect or operation; except process of execution and attachment in the nature
of execution, which shall have been put into the hands of the
marshal antecedent to the application of the insolverit."
Thus all further process on the judgment was prevented: and
.although the land in the hands of the trustee might be subject
to the lien of the judgment, and the trustee bound to satisfy
such lien out of the proceeds of the sale of the same, which
he was directed to make; the plaintiff could only obtain 'the
fruits of the judgment through such sale.
MtDunlop and Mr Key, for the defendant.
It has been contended by the counsel for the plaintiff in error, that a judgment is no lien on lands in this district: that
the true construction of the statute 5 George II., under which
the lien is set *up, does not warrant it: and that this court
ought to take up the subject as res integra.
We say the question is no longer open; it is "res judicata;"
and has long since been settled by judicial decisions and the
practice of Maryland, of which this county formed part before the cession. M'Eldery vs. Smith, 2 Harris and Johns.
Rep. 72. 3 Haris and M'Henry, 450. 2 Harris aid Johns.
64.
The judgments in June 1818 bound thepremises in controversy. Glover had then, as the case admits; a valid title.
The plaintiff in error bought afterwards, and was bound to
take notice of the judgments.
Upon fieri facias issued upon the jhdgments, the defendant
in error acquired his title by purchase; and it is upon the plaintiff in error to show that the judgments and executions were
invalid, or satisfied, or the lien discharged.
VOL. V.-2 V

SUPREME COURT.
(Tayloe vs. Thomson.]

It is not pretended that there was any actual payment or
satisfaction. To show a legal satisfaction, or at least an extinguishment of the lien on the lands, the plaintiff alleges, 1.
The previous writs of ca. sa. against Glover, upon which he
was committed and gave a prison bounds bond, under the act
of the 3d March 1803, sec. 16, Burch's Digest,'244. A
recommitment on these executions after the year, under the
act of the 24th June'f812, sec. 3; and his release under
the insolvent law. Burch's Digest, 277. It is said these
writs and the proceedingo under them satisfied the judgment
in law; or at least amounted to an election by the judgment
creditor, to pursuelhis remedy.against the body, and discharged
the land.
It is no case of election. The judgment creditor could not
pursue both remedies at once; but he could successively, until
be got the suits of his judgment. If one failed, he had a right'
to resort to the other.Taking the body in execution is not payment; but, in the
language ofCoke,. "a gage for the debt." His body is taken
"to the intent that he shall satisfy, and when the defendant
pays the money he shall be discharged from prison." It is
true, if the plaintiff. after taking the body, release the debtor,
or assent to his release, he cannot afterwards proceed on the
judgment. He is presumed by law to be satisfied.
But here there is no assent of the creditor; the proceedings, both as to the piison bounds bond, and the discharge under the insolvent law, are had against him "in invitum."'
They are for the easement of the debtor; and are statutory discharges, without the consent of the creditor, or power in him
to resist them. "The plaintiff (says lord Coke) shall not be
prejudiced of his execution by act of law which doth wrong
to no one."
"The death of the defendant is the act of God,
which shall not turn to the prejudice of the plaintiff; and he
shall have a new execution."
The authorities are clear, that an escape from the sheriff or
a statutory discharge shall not prejudice the creditor, or extinguish his original judgment. Though in the case of escape
the creditor may sue the sheriff, he may also retake the debtor,
and "until he be satisfied in deed, -debtor cannot have audita querela;" because "peradventure the sheriff may be worth

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[Tayloe vs. Thomson.]

nothing." Blumfield's case, Coke's Rep. part 5, vol. 3, 86.
b. Nadin vs. Battie and Wardle, 5 East. 147. The United
States vs. Stansbury and Morgan, 1 Peters, 573.
The taking the body in -execution, and the statutory discharge, vithout the assent of the creditor, does not extinguish
the judgment or the lien, unless the statute says so. Here the
statute negatives the idea of a discharge. The insolvent law
only releases the person, and the judgment is left in full force
against the property. The prison bounds bond statute authorizes a recommitment after the year. It looks to the judgment,
and execution, as in force, and only suspended from motives
of humanity to the debtor. If the debtor stays in the bounds,
he is recommitted after the year; the execution not being discharged. Can he be better off by breaking the bounds? Can
he prejudice the creditor by his own wrongful act, by violating the law, and abusing the privileges which its humane
provisions gave him.
The intent of the act of 1812 was to limit the duration of
the privilege of the bounds to the debtor, to force payment or
a discharge under the insolvent law at the end of the year.
If, as is contended, the breaking of the bounds, and the forfeiture of the debtor's bond releases the original judgment
and execution; the very evil the statute meant to remedy will
continue undiminished.
If the debtor's breach of the prison bounds discharges the
original judgment, and gives the creditor in substitution for it
the bond and sureties, the same course may be renewed by his
sureties upon the executions against them, and so on ad infinitum. There might be no end to the plaintiff's pursuit.
Again, it is argued, if the forfeiture of the, prison bounds
bond did not extinguish th6 original judgment and lien, we
had our election, to take the bounds bond and sureties, or a
ca. sa.; that we could not have both. That we elected the
bond.
We say the bond is additional security; that it is a cumulative remedy; and that we can pursue both, until satisfaction
of the debt. They are not incompatible, but may well stand
together like the case-of appeal-bonds. Both are given at
the instanee-aad fo the penefit of the debtor, without the cre-

SUPREME COURT.
[Tayloe vs. Thomson.],

ditor's consent, or his being consulted; and ought not to prejudice him.
This is like the case of an escape; it is in fact an escape; the
debtor, by the prison bounds bond, is taken out of the custody
of the sheriff, put in to the custody of his suretiesin the bond,
and escapes. The creditor may sue the sheriff, or the bond
sureties, and also retake the defendant, Peradventure, as Coke
says in-Blumfield's case,'the sheriff or the sureties-may be worth
nothing. Espinasse's N. P. 611. Buller'sN. P. 69. Ford
Terretenant of Preston vs. Gwvn's Adm. 3 Har. and Johns.
497.
Lastly, it is said the fifth section of the insolvent law,
Burch's Digest, 242, makes void the fi. fa. under which we
claim title.
That section forbids process against the real or personal
property of the debtor,.not issued or in the marshal's hands
previous to the debtor's application for, relief. Its intent
was to pass the debtor's remaining,property, not already
bound by execution, into the trustees hands, for equal distribution amongst his creditors.
In this property (the lot now in controversy) there was no
remaining interest of Glover to pass to the trustee. Subject
to the plaintiff's lien, the whole remaining interest was
in Tayloe, the alienee of Glover, andthe plaintiff in error.
The fifth section of the insolvent law does not apply to, and
was never meant to cover any such case.
Mr Justice BA.LDwIN delivered the opinion of the Court.
In the court below this-was an action of ejectment, brought
by Thomson to recover possession of a lot in the city of
Washington. It came up on a case stated by the ,parties;
which contains all the facts on which the cause depends, and
is as follows:
In this case it is agreed, "that one Charles Glover was seised
in fee of the messuage, &c. in dispute, on and before the 15th
May 1815, and so continued seised until the 4th January
1819, when he bargained and sold the premises to the defendant, John Tayloe, as hereinafter mentioned: that on the
15th June 1818, Owen and Longstreth obtained two judgments at law against the said Glover, as endorser of two pro-

JANUARY TERM 1831.
([Tayloe vs. Thomson.]

missory notes, passed to the said Owen and Longstreth; the
one for six hundred and -eighty dollars and seventy-four cents,
with interest from the* 15th February 1817 till paid, and
costs; the other for six hundred and seventy-four dollars- and
twenty cents, -with interest from the 15th December 1816
till paid, and costs; which judgments, by an arrangement
between said Owen and .Longstreth, and the lessor of the
plaintiff, or the lessor of the plaintiff together with his partner, Ma!is, trading under the firm of Thomson .and Maris,
were transferred, With other choses in action, by Owen and
Longstreth to the lessor of the plaintiff, or to said Thomison
and Mars, so as to place the proceeds of said judgments at the
disposal bf said Thomson or Thomson and Maris, and make
the same applicable to the security of said Thomson, or Thomson and Maris, against certain engagements entered into.by
him or them, for Owen and Longstret.h; and were prosecuted for the benefit of said Thomson or Thomson and Maris.
" That ca. sa. 'wereissued on said judgments on the 10th
May 1820, returnable to June term 1820, and duly served on
said Glover, who was duly committed- to the jail of the county
aforesaid under the said execution. That he was thereupon
admitted to the benefit of the prison rules, upon givingbonds
and securities, pursuant to the act of congress in such case
provided. That the said Glover having broken the prison
rules and the conditions of his said bonds, suits were brought
upon the* same against him and his security; returnable to
October term 1822, at the instance and for the benefit of the
said assignee or assignees of the said judgments; and judgments were duly obtained in said suits against said Glover
(but not prosecuted to judgment against his.security, he having
died, and no administration on his estate in this district), for
the respective amounts of said original judE -ts, with interest and costs, at October term 1823; upon hich judgments
so obtained against Glover, on said prison bounds bonds,
ft. fas. were duly issued, returnable to December teirm it24,
and then returned nulla bona. That at the same term, of
December 1824, the. attorney, upon the record of. the said
Owen and Longstreth, still acting at the instance and for the
benefit of the said assignee or assignees of the said-original
judgqients, moved the court to recommit the said Glover,

SUPREME COURT.
[Tayloe vs. Thomson.]
under the original ca. 8a8. issued on said judgments and before execution as aforesaid: the ground of which motion was,
that more than twelve montbs had expired since the said Glover
had been admitted to the benefit of the prison rules, as aforesaid, and that the act of congress, in such case provided, -had
limited the hnefit of such prison rules to the term of twelve
months: upon which motion the said Glover'was recommitted, by order of said court, under the said ca. sas. to the
common jail aforesaid; where he remained, in Virtue of his
said recommitment, until the 5th February 1825, when he
was duly discharged as an insolvent debtor, pursuant to the
act and acts of congress for the relief of insolvent debtors
within the district of Columbia; he, the said Glover, having,
in all things, complied with the requisites of the said-act, to
entitle him to such discharge.
" Thatafter the said original judgments were rendered against
the said Glover, as aforesaid, to wit, on the 4th January 1819,
he bargained and sold the said messuage, &c. now'in *dispute
to the said John Tayloe in fee simple, for, and in considerathen and there duly paid to him
tion of, the sum of -,
a deed of bargain and 'sale duly
by
by the said Tayloe, in fee,
and recorded according to
certified,
acknowledged,
executed,
law, by virtue of which bargain, sale and conveyance; said
Tayloe entered upon said bargained and sold premises, and
ever since has held, possessed and enjoyed the same.
"That no evidence is offered by plaintiff, that atthe time, of
the said bargain, sale and conveyance, and of the payment of
the said purchase money to Glover, Tayloe had any actual
ndtice of the said original judgments, or either of them; that
is; no other than the constructive notice arising from the records of said judgments. That after said Glover had been
discharged as an insolvent debtor, as aforesaid, ft. fas. were
issued from the clerk's office on the said original judgments,
at the like instance, and for the like.benefit of the said assignee
or assignees of those judgnxients, returnable at May term 1825;
and were levied upon the said bargained and sold premises
(besides other real property, which had been before sold and
conveyed to other persons by said Glover), then in possession
of, and held by said Tayloc, under his said purchase; and the
said bargained and sold premises were afterwardd exposed to

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[Tayloe vs. Thomoon.1,

sale by the marshal, undersaid executions, and purchased by
the lessor of the plaintiff, to whom they were conveyed by
the said. marshal, by a deed in the usual form, duly executed
acknowledged and recordled.
"That the lessor of the plaintiff, by whose order the said
executions issued, had actual notice of the said bargain, sale,
and conveyance, from Glover to Tayloe, and of the possession
of Tayloe befdre the issuing of the said executions.
"4That for the purchase money, the lessor of the plaintiff paid
noihing; but entered credit on said judgments, orone of them,
for the amount of the same.
"Upon theforegoing case stated, it is submitted to the court,
if the lessor of the plaintiff be entitled to recover the said
messuage; &c. and if the law be for the plaintiff upon the facts
aforesaid, then judgment in the usual form to be entered for
the plaintiWf, otherwise for the defendant. It is. agreed, the
premises in dispute are of the value of one thousand dollars
and, upward. 1
Upon the case stated, judgment in the court below was
given for the lessee of the plaintiff, for his term yet to come,
and unexpiied, &c. &c. To which judgment the defendant
below sued this *rit of error.
'The first point made by the plaintiff in error is, that by the
law of Maryland; which, it is admitted is the rule by which
this point id to be determined; a judgment is no lien. on real
estate before execution issued aid levied.
It seems there is no actof assembly of that state applicable
to the case; hut that by an act of Parliament of 5 George I,
ch. 7, lands in the colonies are subject to execution as chattels
in favor -ofBritish merchants: that this statute has-been adopted and in use in Maryland ever since its passage, as the only
one under which, lands have been taken inexectiutiob and sold.
It is admitted that though this statute' extends in terms only
to executions in favour of British - merchants, it has long received an equitable construction, applying it to all judgment
creditors. The plaintiff's counsel do not assert that this construction has ever been questioned, or that it has not been uniform throughout the state; but asks this court to 'review this
construction, and give to the statute such an one as will confine it to the only case for which it makes a provision.

SUPREME COURT.
[Tayloe vs. Thomson.]

As congress has made no new law on this subject, the circuit court were bound to decide this case according to the law
of Maryland; which does not consist merely in enactments of
their own, or the statutes of England in force, or adopted by
the legislature. The adjudications of their courts; the settled
and-uniform practice and usage of the state, in the practical
operation of its provisions, evidencing the judicial construction
of its terms;'are to be considered as a part of the statute: and
as such furnishing a rule for the decisions of the federal courts.
The statute and its interpretation form together a rule of title
and property, which must be the same in all courts. Had this
question occurred in the courts of that state, they would be
bound to say that it was now too late to overlook the practical
construction which this statute has received for a century, and
on which numberless titles depend. Property would be held
by a very precarious tenure; and infinite confusion would be
introduced, if any court should now resort to its terms as furnishing the class of cases in Nyhich lands could be sold on execution, -nd declaring it to extend to none other. It is enough
for this court to know, that by ancient, well established, and
uniform usage, it has been acted on and considered as extending to all judgments in favour of any persons; and that sales
under them have always been held and respected as valid titles. The circuit court were right in deciding that the plaintiff below was entitled to all the benefits of the statute of 5 Geo.
IL Though it does not provide that a judgment shall be a
lien from the time of its rendition; yet there is abundant evidence that it has always been so considered, and so acted on.
Though the researches of the counsel for the defendant in error have not enabled them to furnish the court with any express judicial decision on this particular question, yet the evidence adduced is not less satisfactory to show that it has long
since been settled. The case of Dorsey vs. Worthington, in
4 Harris'and M'E enry, 533, &c. shows, that so early as 1771, it
was adopted as an established principle; and the later cases
in 3 Harris and M'Henry, 450; 2 Harris and.Johnson, 64,
73; 3 Harris and Johnson, 497, are founded on it as a wellknown pre-existing rul6, not questioned even by counsel; but
apparently of a time so remote as to be beyond not only the
memory of any livingjurist, but the reported decisions of any

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[Tayloe vs. Thomson.]

court. The decisions in the cases referred to are wholly unsupported and unaccountable; on any other construction of the
statute, than the one contended for by the defendant in error.
If a judgment was not a lien from its date, an alienation before execution would prevent it from attaching afterwards.
Yet the plaintiff may proceed and sell lands aliened after judgment, without a scire facias,against the alience. 2 Harris and
Johnson, 72. So of lands in the hands of a purchaser under
a younger judgment: 3 Harris and M'Henry, 450; or against a
terre-tenant after the defendant had been arrested on a ca, sa.
on the same judgment, imprisoned, escaped, and a judgment
against the sheriff. 3 Harris and Johnson, 497. 4 Harris and
P'Henry, 533, S.- P. There can therefore be no doubt that
from the earliest period, the courts of Maryland had -established it as a rule of property, which had become unquestioned
long before the cession of this district to the United States,
that a judgment is a lien, per se, on the lands of the defendant.
The next question which arises is, whether the proceedings
which have been had on the judgment in question, prior to
the execution on which this lot was sold, have impaired or annulled its lien. The plaintiff had an undoubted right to an
execution against the person, and the personal or real property
of the defendant: he has his election; but his adoption of any
one does not preclude him from resorting to the'other, if he
does not obtain satisfaction of the debt on the first execution.
His remedies are cumulative and successive; which he may
pursue until he reaches that point at which the law declares
his debt satisfied. A ca. sa. executed does not extinguish it. If
the defendant escape, or is discharged by operation of law, the
judgment retains its lien, and may be enforced on his property.
The creditor may retake him, or sue the sheriff for the escape.
A judgment against him does not amount to a satisfaction of
the original debt, but it retains its lien until the plaintiff has
done or consented-to some act, which amounts in law to payment;'as the discharge of defendant from custody; or, in some
cases, a levy on personal property. But we know of no rule
of law which deprives a plaintiff in a judgment of one remedy
by the pursuit of another, or of all which the law gives him.
The doctrine of election, contended for by the plaintiff in error,
(if it exists in any case of a creditor, unless under the statutes
VOL. V.-2 W

SUPREME COURT.
[Tayloe vs. Thomson.]

of bankruptcy,) has never been applied to a case of a defendant in execution discharged under an insolvent act, by operation of law: a contrary principle is recognized, as well settled,
in 5 East, 147.
The greatest effect which the law gives to a commitment
on -ba. s. is a suspension of the other remedies on the judgment during its continuance: whenever it terminates without
the.consent of the creditor, the plaintiff is restored to them all
as fully as if he bad never made use of any. The cases cited
by the defendant from Buller's Nisi Prius, 69; 5 Coke, 86, b.;
Bloomfield's ease, and those in the courts of Maryland, fully
support, and are decided on this principle. In I Vesey, 195,
lord Hardwicke decided that where a defendant was in custody under a ca. sa, and a ft. fa. was afterwards taken out
on the same judgment, and a farm levied on and sold, the
purchaser being a stranger should hold -it, as the fi; fa.,
though irregular and erroneous, was not void. The authority
of this decision has never been questioned, and fully establishes the position that a ca. sa. neither extinguishes the
debt nor annuls the subsequent proceedings on a ft. fa.;
though the case would have been different had the plaintiff in
the judgment been the purchaser. In the present -case we
must consider Thomson as the plaintiff in the judgment on
-which the lot in controversy has been sold, and that the sale
may be open to objections, which would not be good against
a stranger purchaser; but we can perceive in the case stated
no facts which in any manner legally invalidate his purchase.
He had a right to make use of the ca. sa. until he obtained
satisfaction. The escape of Glover, by his breach of prison
bounds, could not effect the lien of the judgment. The plaintiff
was not bound to-resort to the prison bond as his only remedy: a- judgment on it against Glover was no more a bar to a
A fA. than a judgment against the sheriff for an escape: and
A.
Glover could place himself in no better situation by breaking his bond "than by remaining a. true prisoner. Whether he
escaped, or remained in prison bounds, the marshal was bound
to recommit him to close custody, after the expiration of
twelve months from the date of the bond [3d section of the
act of June 1812, Burch, 277]. This was a measure directed
by law without any applicatioi to the creditor; its being done

JANUARY TERM 1831.
(Tayloc -us. Thomson.]

in this case on his motion cannot vary the effects; for Glover in
either case must resfiain in custody until the debt for which he
was committed was paid, or he be discharged under the act of
congress foi the relief of insolvent debtors. Up to this time no
act was done by the jqdgment creditor which could impair
the legal effect of his judgment, by any rule of the common
law, the laws of Maryland or the district of Columbia; or by
any legal adjudication of the courts of that state-on the constructi,'n of the statute.
It remains only to consider the effect of the proceedings
under the insolvent law of the district, under which Glover
was discharged. Tle counsel for the plaintiff in error relies
on the last clause of the fifth section of this law, as conclusive
against the proceedings on the judgment subsequent to Glover's discharge. cAnd no process against the real or personal
property of the debtor shall have any effect or operation except process of execution, and attachments in the nature of executions, which shall have been put into the hands of the marshal antecedent to the application."
The true meaning of this clausecan be ascertained from the
provisions of the preceding part of the law; the debtor is to
make out a list of all his property, real, personal and mixed,
and offer to deliver it up to the use of his creditors; the court
then appoint a trustee, who is required to give bond with security for the faithful performance of his trust. The debtor
is then directed to execute to the trustee a deed, cohyeying
tll his property, rights and credits.
The lot in question was not the property of Glover at the
time of his application for the benefit of the law: he had conveyed it in fee in January 1819, add received the purchase
money, and therefore neither could have any property in the
lot, or right or credit arising from the sale: nothing to deliver
up to his creditors or convey to'the trustee: no question could
arise between them and the judgment creditor: and the trustee could have no right to tell the lot, and distribute the proceeds among the creditors of Glaver. •The fifth section applies only to the property which passed to the trustee by the
deed from. the insolvent, not to what he had conveyed to
Tayloe in 1819, six years before Glover's discharge. The trustee acquired- what the debtor had at the time of his applica-

SUPREME COURT.
[Tay]oe vs. Thomson.]

tion, or was in any way entitled to, that he could sell, and
must distribute rateably among all the creditors, after satisfyifig incumbrances and liens. The application of the clatise of
this section, before recited, was intended only for a case where
one creditor sought to obtain a preference by process against
the debtor's property after his application. In such case it declared it should have no effect or operation: but where the incumbrance or lien had attached before the application, it had
a priority of payment out of the assigned fund.
Thus under-food, the case is perfectly plain. This law can
have no apphdtion to real estate, which never did and never
could come into the bands of the trustee for distribution; but
left the judgment creditor with all his rights to enforce the
lien of his judgment on lands of the debtor in the hands of the
plaintiff in error; who purchased after its rendition, and must
hold it as the debtor did, subjcct'to its lien.
It is not alleged that the proceedings subsequent to the
levy on the lot are erroneous or void: they appear to have.
been regular, and therefore vested the title to the lot in controversy in the lessor of the plaintiff.
The judgment of the circuit court is affirmed with costs.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the circuit court of the United States, for the district of Columbia, holden in and for the county of Washington, and was argued by counsel; on consideration whereof, it is
considered, ordered and adjudged by this court, that the judgment of the said circuit court in this cause be, and the same
is hereby affirmed with costs.

