SUPREME COURT.

JAMES GnEENLEAF's LESSEE PLAINTYF IN ERROR VS. JAMES
BIRTH, DEFENDANT IN ERROR.
It is to be understood as a general rule, that where there are' various bills of
exceptions filed according to the local practice, if in the progress of the cause
the matters of any of these exceptions become wholly immaterial to the merits,
as they are finally made out on the trial, they are no longer assignable as error,
however they have been ruled in the court below.
It may be'gathered from the decisions of the courts of Maryland, that on the trial
of a question of title to land, no evidence can be admitted of the location of any
line, boundary, or object not laid down on the plots or resurvey; and that a
witness, who was not present at the resurvey, is not competent to give evidence as to the. lines, objects, and boundaries laid down in such plots. Theserules appear to rest on artificial reasoning, and a course of practice peculiar to
Maryland.
The court do not find it to have been decided by the courts of Maryland, that no
testimony is admissible to prove a possession of the land within the lines of
the party's claim laid down in the plot, except the testimony of some witness
who was present on the resurvey. Upon the general principles of the law of
evidence, such testimony isclearly admissible. A party has a right to prove
his possession by any competent witness; whether he was present at the esurvey or not.
In the ordinary course of things, the party offering evidence is understood to
wave any objection to its competency as proof. It is not competent for a
party to insist upod the effect of one part of the papers constituting his own
evidence, without giving the other party the benefit of the other facts contained
In the same paper.
A power of attomey was given by C. to A. and B. to make in his name an acknowledgement of a deed for land in the city of Washington, before some proper
officer,with a view to its registration, constituting them "the lawful attorneyor
attorneys" of the constituent. A. and B. severally appeared before diffeient
,duly authorised magistrates, in Washington, at several times; and made a severalacknowledgement'in the name of their -prinhipal. Held that the true onstruction of the power is, that it vests a several as well as a joint authority in
the attorneys. They are appointed "the attorney or attorneys;" and if the
intention had -been to give a joint authority only, the words "attorney" and
"or" would have been wholly useless. To give effect, then, to all the words,
It is necessary to construe them distributively, and this'is done by the interpretation before stated. They are appointed his attorneys, and each o, them is
appointed his attorney, for the purpose of acknowledging the deed.

ERROR to the circuit court of the district of Columbia, for
the county of Washington.
The lessee of James Greenleaf instituted an action of eject-

JANUARY TERM 1821.
[Greenleaf's Lessee vs. Birth.J

ment in the circuit court for the county of Washington, for
the recovery of lot No. 16 in Square No. 75, in the city of
Washington, which suit was afterwards removed to the county
.. f Alexandria, and was tliere tried in the circuit court
Upon the trial the plaintiff gave in evidence certain duly
authenticated copies of deeds, commencing in date. on the 18th
of June 1791, and of the allotment of the lot in questioh to
James Greenleaf, by the commissioners of the United States,
under the authority of the act of congress of 16th July 179D,
establishing 99 a temporary and permanent seat of the government of the United States." Upon this evidence the plaiitiff prayed the court to give certain instructions to the jury in
favour of the title and possession of the lessor of the plaintiff,
which were refused, and which refusal was made the ground
of separate bills of exceptions. Subsequently the plaintiff
gave in evidence a regular chain of title from the" lord proprietor of the province of Maryland, and a good title in the
lessor of the plaintiff, in the month of October 1794. The
6ase on the part of the plaihtiff was by this evidence relieved
from the difficulties presented by the evidence which was
offered in the first instance, and out of which arose the exceptions taken to the refusal of the court to give instructions upon that evidence.
The plaintiff also offered in evidence the survey, certificates, plots and explanations returned in this cause, and offered
to-prove that nincteen and a quarter acres were truly located
on the plot by the lines designated by the letters E. s. g.; that
the deed from Benjamin Stoddart to Gant and Beal, and the
deed from Benjamin Stoddart and Uiah Forrest to James
Greenleaf, the lessor of the plaintiff, comprised the land designated as aforesaid; and that the said lot No 16, in square No.
75, allotted to the lessor of the plaintiff by the said commissioners, in the said division of the said square, was also part of
the land so designated; and offered parol evidence, by a c6mpetent witness, who was not present at .the survey, that the
lessor of the plaintiff was, in the month of October 1794,- in
possession of the land designated by the lines and letters E. s. g.
which is now demanded; and designated on the said plot, by
lot 16 in square 75, -under the claim of title.

SUPREME COURT.
[Greenleaf's Lessee vs. Birth.)

Butthe court refused to permit the said parol evidence to
be given.to the jury; the same having been objected to, on
the ground of the witness not having been on the survey.
The plaintiff having established a good title in his lessor in
October 1794; the defendant offered to read in evidence to the
jury, for the-purpose of showing that the title to the lot in question was out of the lessor of the plaintiff after the year 1794,
a paper purporting to be a copy of certain proceedings under
the bankrupt law of the Urited States, admitted to be duly
authente'ated; and a deed from the persons therein named
,as commissioners of bankruptcy to Edward S. Burd, and a
deed from the said commissioners and Burd to John Miller,
Jun. To the admission of which in evidence, the counsel for
the plaintiff objected; and the court sustained the objection, as
to the said two deeds.
And thereupon the defendant prayed the court to instruct,
and the court did instruct the jury, that by the proceedings of
bankruptcy, the said James Greenleaf, the lessor of the plaintiff, was divested of the legal title in and to the said lot No.
16 in the said square No. 75, in the declaratioi mentioned;
and that the said legal estate was thereby vested in the said
commissioners of bankruptcy; and rejected the said deeds as
any evidence in said cause.
Whereupon*the plaintiff, in addition t the evidence aforesaid,, offered to read In evidence to the jury,, the said deeds in
the said proceedings mentioned from the said commissioners
of bankruptcy to the said Edward S. Burd, and the said deed
from the said commissionqrs and the said Edward S. "Burdto
the said John Miller; and also a copy of a deed, 'duly authenticated, from the said Miller to Samuel Eliot, Jun.; and a copy,
duly authenticated, of a deed from the said S. Eliot, 3 ur. to
James Greenleaf, the lessor of the plaintiff: which the court
refused to admit to be read in evidence.
The plaintiff excepted to those several opinions of the court,
and prosecuted this writ of error, to reverse the judgment of
the circuit court in favour of the defendant.
The case was argued by Mr Coxe and Mr. Jones, for the
plaintiff in error; and by Mr Swarm and Mr Key, for the
defendant.

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[Greenleaf's Lessee vs. Birth.]

delivered the opinion of the Court.
Mr Justice
The plaintiff in error brought an action of ejectment in the
circuit court for the county of Washington, in the district of
Columbia, to recover a cettain lot of land in the city of Washington. The general issue was pleaded; and upon the trial,
the jury found a verdict for the defendant, ppon which judgment was rendered in his favour. Upon that judgment the
present writ of error has been brought.
At the trial several exceptions were taken, by the plaintiff,
to the opinions expressed or refused by the court. As to
some of these exceptions,, which are thus brought before us,
it is unnecessary to decide whether they are well or ill founded;
because, in the progress of the cause, it is apparent, that they
worked no ultimate injury to the plaintiff, since, independently
of .the matters therein stated, it is admitted upon the record,
that the plaintiff made out a good title in his lessor, which was
all which the plaintiff proposed to establish by them. And we
wish it to be understood as a general rule, that where there are
various bills of exceptions filed according to the local practice,
if in the progress of the cause the matters of any of those-exceptions b1come wholly immaterial to the meritS', as they are
finally made out at the trials, they are no longer assignable as
error; however they may have been ruled in the court below.*
There must be some injury to the party, to make the matter
generally assignable as error. Upon this ground, we shall pass
over the exceptions taken to the ruling of the court in the preliminary stages of the cause, as to the title of the lessor of the
plaintiff.
Another exception is founded upon the refusal of the court
to admit the parol evidence of a witness, who was not present
at the survey returned in the cause, to establish the fact, that
the lessor of the plaintiff was, in the month of October 1794,
in possession of the land designated by certain lines and letters
on the plot, and demanded in the action, under the claim of
title.
The ground of the decision of the court Was, that such evidence was not competent, except from a withess who had been
on the survey; and this decision is attempted to be sustained
by the local practice of Maryland in like cases. We have
examined the cases which were referred to at the bar. They
STORY

SUPREME COURT.
[Greenleaf's Lessee vs. Birth.]

do not appear to us to be all easily reconcilable wit each other:
It may perhaps be gathered from them, that no evidence can
be admitted of the location of any line, boundary or object,
not laid down on theplots of resurvey; and that a witness who
was not present at the resurvey, is not competent to give evidence as to the lines, oljeets and boundaries laid down on such
plots. See M'Henry on Ejectment, ch. 3, p. 208 to 216, and
cases there cited. These rules appear to rest on artificial
reasQning, and a co*urse of practice peculiar to Maryland. But
we do not find it any where decided, that no testimony is
admissible to prove a possession of the land within the lines
of-the party's claim laid down in the plot, except the testimony
of some witness, who was present at the resurvey; and some
of the cases certainly show that possession may be proved
within the lines of the plot, although the particular marks or
places of possession are not designated thereon. See Carroll
vs. Norwood, 1 Har. and Johns. Rep. 167. Hawkins vs. Middleton, 2 Har. and M'Hen. 119. It is unnecessary to consider, whether upon. a general question of the competency of
evidence in respect to lands in this district, this court would
follow all the decisions of Maryland, introduced as, a part o
their local practice in ejeetment. We are not satisfied that
any such rule exists as that contended for by the defendant in
error; and upon the general principles of the law of evidence, the testimony of the witness which was objected to
was clearly admissible. The plaintiff had a right to prove
his possession by any'competent witness, whether he was present at the resurvey or not. His testimony might not on that
account be so satisfactory or decisive; but it was nevertheless
proper for the consideration of the jury. The court erred
therefore in rejecting it.
The subsequent exceptions may be considered together.
The language of the bill is, that the plaintiff then gave in evidence, without objection, a copy of the original patent or
grant from the lord proprietor of the province of Maryland,
dated the 5th of July 1686, and by sundry mesne conveyances, devises and descents, gave evidence of a good title in
the.lessor of the plaintiff, in the month of October in the year
1794. Whereupon the defendant offered to read in evidence
to the jury, for the purpose of showing that the title to the

-ANUARY TERM 1831.
(Greerdeaf's Lessee vs. Birth.]

lot in question was out of the lessor of the plaintiff after the
year 1794, a paper purporting to be a copy of cdrtain proceedings under the bankrupt law of the United Statei, admitted to
be only authenticated (annexing the copy); and a deed from
the persons therein named, as Commissioners of bankruptcy, to
Edward S. Burd, and a deed frbm the said'commissioners to
John .Miller, Jun;-to the admisslorr of which, in evidence, the
coungel for the plaintiff objected: and the court sustained the
objection as to the two deeds. And thereupon the defendant
prayed the court to instruct, and. the court did instruct the
jury, that by the proceedings in bankruptcy, Greenleaf, the
lessor of the plaintiff, was divested of the legal title in and to
the lot in controversy, and that the said legal estate was theteby
vested in the commissioners of bankruptdy: and rejected the
said deeds as any evidence in the said cadse.
Whereupon the plaintiff, in additioh to the evidefice afirgsaid, offered to -read in evidence to the jury, the said two deeds
in the said proceedings mentionedfromt th said commIssioners
of bankruptcy to the said Edward S. Burd, ard the said deed
from the said commissioners and the said Edward Burd to
thd'saial John Miller; and also a copy of a deed- duly authenticated from Miller to Samuel Elioi, and a copy of a deed duly
authenticated from.Eliot to Greenleaf (the lessor of the plaintiff), all which copies were objected 'to, ard. the. court refused to permit the plahntiff to read them in evidence to the
jury.
It is i)ot one of the least curious circumstances of this cause,
that copies of 'the same aeedb were alternately offered as evidence, for the same purpose, by each of the parties, and successively objefted to by the other, 'and rejected by the court.
In the-ordinary course of things, the party offering such evidence is understood to wavoany objection.to its competency
as proof.. But, without insisting upon.this consideratibn, it is
manire't, that if the proceedings in bankruptcy'adwitted.by
the court were competent evidence at all, they esiablished the
fact not only of the bankruptcy of Greenleaf and the issuing
of a commission against him, and the appointment of commissioners, bat also of an assignment of his estate by'them, first
to Burd,,and afterwards to Miller. The proceedings are not
given at large; but among them is a transcript of the doings of
'oVL. V.-S

SUPREME COURT.
[Greenleaf's Lessee vs. Birth.]

the commissioners at a meeting held on the 11th of January
1803, at which the commissioners certify that a majority of
the creditors had removed Burd, at his own request, and appointed Miller assignee of the bankrupt's effects in his stead:
and also at a meeting on the 17th of March 1804, at which
the commissioners certify that they executed an assignment of
alf the estate and effects of the bankrupt to Miller, calling him
"John Miller, JAn. of the city of Philadelphia, merchant."
We must take these proceedings, if at all, together; and if in
virtue of the bankruptcy of Greenleaf his estate became ipso
facto vested inthe commissioners, (on which, in our view of
the case, it is unnecessary to decide) the same proceedingq
prove an assignment from them to Miller, of the same estate.
It is not competent for a party~to insist upon the effect of one
part of the papers constituting his own evidence, without giving the other party the benefit of the- other facts contained in
the same papers. We think then, that the assignment to Burd
and Miller were sufficiently in evidence upon the defendant's
own proofs, to entitle the plainfiff to deduce his title to the lot
in controversy, without the introduction of the copies of the
deeds of assignment, which were offered and rejected. The
question then is reduced to this, whether the deed front Miller
to Eliot-was entitled to be read in evidebce; for no specific
objection is taken to that from Eliot to Greenleaf.
Two objections have been taken to ihe deed from Miller to
Eliot. The first is, that-it does not appear that Miller is a
non-resident, so as to entitle the deed to registration, upon an
acknowledgement to be made by a letter of attorney, in the
manner pointed out by the registration act of Maryland of
1766, chap.'14, sec. 4. But we are of.'opinion that the nonresidence is sufficiently apparent from the form of the papers.
Miller is stated in the bankrupt proceedings to be a merchant
of Philadelphia, and in his deed to Eliot he describes himself
to be ." of the city of Philadelphia;" and there is not the
slightest evidence in the case to overcome the natural presumption of non-residency arising from these facts.
The next objection is, that the power of attorney given by
"Millerto William Brent and John G. M'Donald, to make an
acknowledgement of the deed before some proper magistrate,
with a view to its registration; did not authorize the acknow-

JANUARY TERM 1831,
(Greenleaf's Lessee vs . Birth.]

ledgement as- it was in fact made. The power of attorney
constitutes them "to be the lawful attorney or attorneys" for
Miller, and in his name'to make the acknowledgement. They
severally appeared before different magistrates (who were duly
authorized), at several times, and made a several acknowledgement in the name of their principal. The argument is, that
the power was joint and not several, and that therefore the
execution should have been by a joint acknowledgement before the same magistrate. In our opinion, the true construetion of the power is, that it vests a -yeveralas well as a joint
authority in the attorneys. They are appointed the "attorney or attorneys;" and if the intention had been to give.a joint
authority only, the words "attor n ey" and "or" would have
been wholly useless. To give effect then to all the words, it
is necessary to construe them distributively; and this is done
by the interpretation before stated. They are appointed his
attorneys, and each of them is appointed his attorney, for the
purpose of acknowledging the deed.
Upon these'grounds we are of opinion, that the judgment of
the court below ought to be reversed; and that the cause be
remanded, with directions to award a venire facias de novo..
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of.the record from the circuit couit of the United States for the district
of Columbia, holden in and for the county of Alexandria,
and was argued by counsel; on -ebnsideration whereof, it is
considered, ordered and adjudged -by thfsi.ourt, that there was
error in the eircuit'court, in the refusal by the - court of the
parol evidence offered by a competent witness-who was not
present at the survey, that the lessor 6f the plaintiff was in the
month of October 1794 in the possession-f the land designated
by the lines E. S. G. which was. demanded in the action, and
designated on the plot in the case. 6y lot number 16 in square
number 75, under the claim of title ds set forth in the bill of
exception: and also in refusing to admit the copy of the deed
of John Miller, Jun. to Samuel Eliot, Jun., and from said Eliot
to James Green' af, the lessor'of the plaintiff, in"evidence, as
is set forth in the bill'of exceptiohs, after the said circuit court

140

SUPREME COURT.
[Greenleaf's Lessee vs. Birth.]

had admitted in evidence the proceedings in bankruptcy in
the same bill of exceptions set forth. It is therefore considered, ordered and adjudged by this court, that the judgment
of the said circuit court in this cause be, and the same is hereby reversed, and that this .cause be and the same is hereby remanded, with- directions to the said cirtuit court to award a,
venire facias de novo.

