JANUARY TERM 1831.

JAM ES SHEPPARD AND

OTHERS, APPELLANTS Vs.

LEMUEL

TAYLOR AND OTHERS, APPELLEES.
The ship Warren, owned In Baltimore, sailed from th..t port in 1806, the officers
and seamen having shipped to perform a voyage to the northwest coast of
Ameica, thence to Canton, and thence to the United States. The ship proceeded under the instructions of the owners to Conception Bay on the coast
of Chill, by the orders of the supercargo, he having full authority for that
purpose. The cargo had in fact been put on board for an illicit trade against
the laws of Spain, on that coast. After the arrival of the Warren, she was
seized by the Spanish authorities, the vessel and cargo condemned, and the
proceeds ordered to be deposited in the royal chest. The officers and seamen
were imprisoned, and returned to the Unitd States; some after eighteen
imonths, and others not until four years from the term of their departure. The
king of Spain subsequently ordered the proceeds of the Warren and cargo to
be repaid to the owners, but this was not done; afterwards, the owners having
become insolvent assigned their claims for the restoration of the proceeds, and
for ibdemnity from Spain, to their separate creditors; and the commissioners under the Florida treaty awarded to be paid to the assignees a sum of money,
part for the cargo, part for the freight, and part for the ship Warren. The officers and seamen having proceeded against the owners of the ship by libel for
their wages, claiming them by reason of the change of voyage, from the time
of her departure until their return to the United States respectively, and having
afterwa ds claimed payment out of the money paid to the assignees of the.
owners under the treaty, it was held that they were entitled, towards the satisfaction of the same, to the sum awarded by the commissioners for the loss of
the ship and her freight, with certain deductions for the eipenses of prose.
cuting the clain before the commissioners: with interest on the amount from
the period when a claim for the same from the assignees was made by a petition.
If the ship had been specifically restored, the seamen might have proededed
against it in the admiralty in a suit in rem for the whole compensation due to
them. They have by the maritime laws an indisputable lien to this extent.
There is no difference between the case of a restitution in specie of the ship
itself,, and a restoration in value. The lien re-attaches to the thing, and to
whatever Is substituted for it. This is no peculiar principle of the admiralty.
It is found i ,corporated into the doctrines of courts of Sommon law.
Freight, being the earnings of the ship in the course of the voyage, I- the natural
fund out of which the wages are contemplated to be paid: for although the
ship is bound by the lien of the wages, the freight is relied on as th : fund to
discharge it, and is also relied on by the master to dischirge his personal responsibilities.
Over the subject of seamen's wages the admiralty has an undisputed jurisdiction,
in rem, as well as in personam; and wherever the lien for the wages exists
and attaches upon the proceeds, it is the familiar practice of that court to exert
its jurisdiction over them, by way of monition to ihe parties holding the proceeds. This is familiarly known in the cases of prize and bottomry, and salv-

SUPREME COURT.
[Sheppard and others vs. Taylor and others.]
age; and is eqhally applicable to the case of wages. The lien will roiow the
ship, and its proceeds, into whose hands soever they may come by title or
purchase from the owner.

APPEAL from the circuit court for the district of Maryland.
In December 1810, a libel was filed by James Sheppard and
others, officers and seamen of the merchant ship Warren,
against Lemuel Taylor, Samuel Smith, James A. Buchanan,
John Hollins, and Michael M'Blair, owners of the merchant
ship Warren, claiming wages; they having shipped in 1806,
at Baltimore, for a voyage from that port to the northwest
coast, thence to Canton, and home to the United States.
The facts of the case, as they appeared in the libel and supplemental libels, petition, and in the depositions and documents filed and taken in the case, were: that the ship Warren,
of the burthen of about six hundred tons, and armed with
twenty-two guns, commanded by Andrew Sterrett, sailed
from Baltimore on the 12th of September 1806. The crew,
including the officers -and apprentices, consisted of about one
hundred and twelve persons, and were shipped for a voyage
designated in the shipping articles, to be from the port of Baltimore to the northwest coast of America, thence to Canton, and
home to the United States. No other voyage but that expressed in the articles was known to be intended by any one on
board of the Warren, except Mr Pollock, who was the supercargo of the vessel. There were, however, two sets of instructions; one, those which expressed the voyage as stated,
and which were given to captain Sterrett; the other, sealed,
private instructions, and which were delivered to Mr Pollock.
When the ship arrived at a certain latitude, the sealed instructions were opened, and were communicated to the captain. These instructions changed the destination of the ship,
and the nature and character of Lhe voyage. They gave the entire control over the course of the voyage to Mr Pollock: and
from that time she proceeded directly for the coast of Chili,
to prosecute an illicit and smuggling trade with the Spanish
provinces, on the western coast of South America; all trade
with those provinces being then hotoriously forbidden, under

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[Sheppard and otbers vs. Tayloriand otheis.]
heavy penalties, unless conducted utnder a license from the
crown of Spain.
The officers and crew of the Wrarren protested against this
deviation from the prescribed voyage; and captain Sterrett,
from disappointed and wounded feelings, disdaining himself to
engage in an illicit trade, and unwilling to expose his officers
and nen to its perils and consequences, became partially deranged, aid shot himself as the Warren was doubling Cape

Horn.
Mr Evans, the chief mate, succeeded in the nominal command of the ship; but Mr Pollock asserted and maintained the
entire control over her; and he ordered her to steer direct for
Conception Bay and the port of Taleahuana, on the coast of
Chili,.where they were to feign distress, and ask for an asylum.
The vessel arrived on the 20th of Jantlary 1807, within a
short distance of that port, after an absence from Baltimore of
one hundred and twenty days; and on *her arrival was hailed
by the guarda costas of the government. Mr Pollock answered in Spanish, and took the ship's papers with him on
shore, where he had an interview with the commandant of
Talcihuana.
During his absence, an altercation took place between captain Evans and the Spanish armea vessels, which resulted in
the exchange of some guns, but no lives were lost on either
side. Mr Pollock having remained oft shore under a flag of
truce, on the following day communicated by a verbal message'
to captain Evans, an order to enter the port; alleging, that the
firing on the Warren by the guarda costas'had been through
mistake, and that all things wovld be well managed. The
crew remonstrated, and proposed to proceed with the ship -on
the voyage for which they had sailed; and to leave the supercargo on shore. Captain Evans refus ,d to eiter the port, unless by a written order,.which was then sent to him; and he
was informed by the messenger that Mr Pollock was under no
restraint whatever.
The Warren then entered the port of Talcahuana, and captain Evans went on shore; and the seamen, under a pretence
that their depositions -were required relative to the death of
captain Sterrett, were taken on shore, twenty at a time, and
at once put into prison. The o#ers and-the apprentices being'

SUPREME COURT.
[Sheppard and others vs. Ta~lor and others.]

put on board the ship, proposed to rescue her, and communicated the purpose to Mr Pollock, who immediately took his
baggage and that of captain Evans on shore. Soon afterwards
some Spanish officers came on board the Warren, unbent the
sails, and unshipped the rudder.
The officers and crew of the ship were ordered to Conception, and thence were marched to various prisons and dungeons,
and suffered captivity from eight months to four years, being
permitted to return to the United States at various periods.
The apprentices and some of the officers were the first who
were allowed to return; their absence from the United States
was after an imprisonment of from six to eighteen months.
On the part of the -libellants it was alleged that by arrangements between the Spanish commandant and Mr Pollock, the
cargo was smuggled on shore. By a sentence of. a court the
vessel and cargo were sold,'and the proceeds of the same were
ordered to be deposited in the king's treasury, subject to an
appeal interposed by the supercargo. Thus, either by the
private arrangements between Mr Pollock and the Spanish
-governor, or by the proceedings of the court, the voyage was
broken up, and the ship and the whole of the cargo were sold.
The cargo appeared to have been peculiarly adapted to the
coast of Chili and Peru, and altogether unfit for the northwest coast of America or Canton.
The libellants claimed wages from the time of the sailing of
the Warren, to the time of their return to the United States,
respectively; deducting the wages advanced, and any sum of
money, received as wages, during absence.
The proceedings in the case, assefted by the libellants to
bEr amply accounted for by various causes, were delayed from
1810 to 1819. In 1819 all the owners became insolvent:
and, on the 13th December 1819, Lemuel Taylor assigned to
Robert 01iver the spes recuperandiof his interest in the Warren, her cargo, &c. On the 9th of November 1820, Smith and
Buchanan assigned their interest in the Warren and cargo to
Elicott and Meredith, trustees, for the use of the Bank of the
United' States at Baltimore: and, on the 15th of May 1821,
Hollins and M'Blair assigned their interest in said vessel,
cargo, &c. to the Union Bank of Maryland.

JANUARY TERM 1831.
ESheppard and others vs. Taylor and others.]

The owners of the ship Warren and. cargo, having made
application to the crown of Spain for the restoration of the
proceeds of the same, which were under the decree of the court
condemning the same to be deposited, in the royal treasury;
the following proceedings took place:
COPY OF THE ROYAL ORDER OF RESTITUTION.

.Most Excellent Sir:-In the month of September 1806, the
ship called the Warren, belonging to Samuel Smith, Buchanan, Hollins, M'Blair, and Lemuel Taylor,,of Baltimore,
sailed from that port, under the command of Andrew Sterrett,
and laden with sundry merchandize for Canton in China. In
the month of December following, after the vessel and crew
bad experienced various misfortunes, they were in the latitude
of Conception in Chili; when*finding it impossible to continue
the voyage, they werd obliged to take. shelter in some port
dontiguous to that of Talcahuana, on the 20th January 1807.
The commander of the port gave the vessel permission to enter;
which she had scarcely done, however, before she was taken
possession of by troops, and her cargo, seized, under the pretence.of her being a smuggler. This was followed by a sentence for the confiscation and sale of the goods; which was
carried into execution, notwithstanding the protest of the supercargo; and the proceeds, amounting to about three hundred
thousand dollars, 'deposited in the royal chests, to await the
decision of the appeal carried before and received by the supreme council of the Indies. Smith and his partners having
received intelligence of this, made a complaint before the
senate in Maryland; who looking only t,the registers of the
custom house, from which it appeared that the vessel'had
cleared, out for Chi'na; declared the confiscation unjust, and
gave the complainants permission to detain by way of indemnity, any property which might be in that country belonging
to the Spanish government. Don Luis, de Onis, the Spanish
minister in the United States, received unofficial information of
this decision; and khowing that there had not been suffl-dentcausefor the sentence of confiscation, and desiring to
prevent the disagreeable consequences'which might arise from
claims'; made an agreement with Smith and his companions,
that he would cause to be returned to them in this capital, the

SUPREME COURT.
[Sheppard and others vs. Taylor and others.]"

amount of the proceeds of the cargo of the ship Warren,
which had been deposited in the treasury: and that he would
permit them to send out a ve.49elfIladen with a small cargo of
licit merchandize and some tobacco, upon which the customary
royal duties were to be. paid, for the purpose of prosecuting it;
upon which they were' to acknowledge themselves indemnified
for all the losses and expenses resulting from the voyage.
The king, having been gradually informed of what has been
related, notwithstanding that the ministry here had received
no intelligence of the confiscation in question, has thought
proper foi good and prudential reasons to ratify without delay
the agreement made by the minister Onis with Smith, Buchanan aftd their companions; and has desired that instructions
should be sent to your excellency, to have the ship Warren
and her cargo, or the amount produced from their sale, delivered to the a~ents of those persons; and to permit them to
import another small cargo of licit merchandize, and some
leaf tobacco, upon which they must pay the royal duties, and
take the value of it in silver or produce, paying duties in like
manner. Which I notify to your excellency, by his majesty's
orders, fob..your information; and in order that you may issue
.the necessary orders fog its fulfilment. God preserve your
,excellency many years. Madrid, 13th June 1815.
LANDIZABAL.
To the Viceroy of Peru.
PETITION.

Most Excellent Sir:-We, Samuel Smith and Anthony
Faulac, supercargo of the American ship Sydney, on behalf of
the owners of the ship Warren and cargo, and by. virtue of
their power of attorney which we formally elhibit, respectfully appear before your excellency, and say: that by a
royal order of the 13th June 1815, his catholic majesty has
ordered restitution to be made of the said ship Warren and
her cargo; and notwithstanding that she was sentenced to be
confiscated, has been pleased, uponjust and prudential conside.rations, to absolve her, and decree her restoiation. Your x4
c lency, in a decree of the .9th October 1815, commanded
-that tbe said royal order should be obeyed and fulfilled, and
in order.that the necessary measures conducive to.the restitu-

JANUARY TERM 1831.
rSheppard and e hers us. Taylor and others.]'

tion of ship and cargo might be adopted, commanded the original order to be deposited in the archives; and a certified
copy to be made of it, and annexed to the'reeords on the case.
The immediate execution of this royal order is much to be
desired under present circumstances; as it is necessary that we
should return to the United States, where we must notify the
result both to Don Luis de Onis, the Spanish minister plenipotentiary, and to the owners, for whom we are to recover
the money from the royal treasury. For the fulfilment of
the agreement, ratified by the Spanish sovereign, and of thedecree of restitution sent to your excellency, there is nothing
more requisite than the tenor of the royal order, which is sufficiently intelligible in its origin and object. Any delay will
occasion a serious injury, and it was from his catholic majesty's desire to avoid this, that he ordered the restitution, even
before he had received official notice of the confiscation. The
ship Warren was sold in this capital; the purchaser's title to the
property, which is the record of the proceedings on her confiscation, must therefore have been exhibited. The value of
the cargo which his catholie majesty orders to be. restored, is
estimated in the royal order at near three hundred thousand
dollars; which can by some means or other be procured; it
being a matter of indifference to the owners whether it war
deposited in the chests here, or in any others of te kingdom.
Under the impression, therefore; that restitution ought to be
made by the royal treasury, without any further testimony
than the appraisement of the vessel and cargo; in conformity
with the just and wise considerations which induced his majesty to decree the restoration and delivery, we implore your
excellency that, on view of the records relative to the sale "of
the ship Warren, and knowing the sum at which her cargo
was valued; you will be pleased to draw a bill against the officers of the royal treasury, and represent to them the serious
injuries which would result from any delay in fulfilling the
royal order issued under such circumstances. Wherefore, we
pray and supplicate your excellency, that considering as duly
exhibited the power of attorney, and in consequence of what
has been set forth; you will be pleased to order an authenticated
copy of the royal order, the fulfilment of which is required,
to be annexed to the records of the sale of the ship Warren,
VOL. V.-4 L

SUPREME COURT.
[Sheppard and others vs. Taylor and others.]

and on view of them issue the orders for which we pray, as is
just, and as we expect from your excellency's. equity.
SMITH, NICHOLAS, ANTHONY FAULAC.
ORDER.

Lima, 21st March 1817.
Let it be filed with the records of the subject, and be sen
by his majesty's officer of the exchequer, and let the tribunal of accompts make a report.
.HIs EXCELLENCY'S RUBRICK.

,cebal.
REPORT.

Most Excellent Sir,-The tribunal, of accompts, in compliance with your excellency's order of this date, has examined
the petition of Don Samuel Smith and Don Antonio Faulac,
filed with the records which originated in 'he letters written
by the Spanish consul in Baltimore respecting the fitting out
in that port, of the ship Warren, for the purpose of carrying
on an illicit commerce in these seas; and all that it can represent is, that the said vessel was captured off the coasts, or in
some port of the kingdom of Chili, and all the proceedings in
such cases had, without this government being informed of
any thing further than the sale of the vessel; which was sent
hither for that 'purpose by the president of Chili; as will appear by his official letter of the. 14th January 1808, registered
in folio 22, and the proceeds deposited, at his request to the
credit of- his treasury. The vessel was sold 'for the sum of
twenty-five thousand dollars, to Don Xavier Maria Aguirre,
and the amount deposited in the -royal chests in this capital,
on the 4th of February, 1819", and along with two hundred
sixty-three thousand two hundred and eighty-five dollafs six
reals, which had been received from various sources on deposit to the credit of the Chilian Treasury, was remitted to the
Peninsula, in the ships Primero and Joaquina, in consequence
of an offlcigiletter from the president of th ltl April 1809,.
and in obedience to an order of tis viceregal government,
dated 13th May of -the same year. Authenticated copies of
which are enclosed along with an account, No. 585, from the
office of the royal chests in this capital. Your excellency on

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[Sheppard and others vs. Taylor and others.]

view of all this, and of the royal order of the 13th June
1815, in which the proceeds of the 'essel and cargo are ordered to be restored to the claimants, will resolvd whatever
you may deem most conducive to the royal service. Tribunal,
21st May 1817.
THE M.&tquis DE VALDELUIES,
- ,EON DE ASTOLAQUINE,
JOAQUIM BONET.
REPORT.

Most Excellent Sir,---The officer of the exchequer having
examined the petition of Samuel Smith and his agents for the
ship Warren, relative to the royal order-of the 13th June 1815;
in which his majesty commands that restitution should bemade
to them in this capital, of the proceeds of the cargo of the said
vessel, which were deposited here, states; that, from the record's of. the only proceedings in the case which were had
before this government, which are ready to be exhibited, -it
appears that the seizure, and confiscation took place in Chili,
afid that the amount of the proceeds of the vessel only was
deposited in the chests here. It results therefore, that the
supposition in the royal order, that the proceeds of the cargo
had been deposited here is erroneous. And as moreover, the
impoverished condition of this treasury, and its indispensable disbursements will not allow it to refund so large an
amount; and as the royal order has so far been complied with
as to permit the entrance of the vessel which they brought
here; your excelle'ney might find it expedient to give his
majesty a knowledge of these facts, by sending him an authenticated copy of the records, in order that he may deterPAREJA.
mine according to his sovereign pleasure.
LimW, 24tX May 1818.
ORDER.

Lima, 3d June 1817.
Having seen tne foregoing, let the records be carried to the
superior board of the royal revenue; in order that it may
determine as soon as possible what cburse ought to be pursued.
His EXCELLErNcY's Ruinrcx.
acebal.

SUPREME COURT.
[Sheppard and others vs. Taylor and others.]

The owners. of the ship Warren and cargo, and their
assignees, preseted memorials for indemnity to 'the commissioners of the United States, appointed -under the Florida
treaty of 22d February 1819, arid thereupon the commissioners made the following award:
SHIP WARREN, EVANS.

24th April 1824.
Thoma' RIlicott and others, claimants
The. board having heretofore received, examined, and allowed this clai as valid, this day proceeded to ascertain the
amount thereof; and do award to the claimants the sum of one
hundred and eighty-four thousand one hundred and sixty-two
dollars and thirty-five cents (less the. unclaimed interest of
Bonnifils, a foreigner,'of fifteen thousand and eleven dollars
and thirty-seven cents), in-full, for the loss sustained for the
seizure, confisestion, and sale of this vessel and cargo, by the
Spanish authorities at Talcahuana, in 1806; the proceeds of
which sile were ordered to be paid to the claimants by his
catholic majesty in 1815, which sum is to be thus divided:
No. 47L-To Robert and John Oliver, as trusteesof Lemuel Taylor,
$ 63,920 88
Ellicott and- Meredith, as trustees of Simith and
Buchanan,
.
.
.
.
45,034 14
Union Bank of Maryland, as -trustees of Hollins
and M'Blair,
40,030 34
John Stiles, as executor of George Stiles,
20,015 17
The unclaimed interest of Bonnifils,
15,011 37
$184,011
True copy from the record,
JosEPH FoRRsT, Clerk.

90

Eight and one-third per cent, or one-twelfth in all cases,
was abated from the gross amount. The items forming the
aggregate sum allowed by the commissioners in the case of
the ship Warren, Evans, master, were as follows:

JANUARY TEIRM 1831.
[Sheppard and others s. Taylor and others.]

Fbr the value of the vessel,
Cargo,
Taylor's advenfure,
Pfemium, twelve per cent,
Freight one-third off;

Deduct therefrom,

-

$25,000
125,131
4,025
16,144
13,86.0

00

93
83
59
00

$184,162 35
150 45

$184,011 90
The last final report made to the department of state of the
United States, on the 8th of June 1824, by the commissioners
under the Florida treaty, contained the following general
observations:
"In making such allowances to underwriters, the commission was well aware, that its effects would be to allow them
more than they had lost, by the amount of the premium received from the party insured, which premium fie had voluntarily paid, and must have lost in any event; so too in making
the allowance of freight, the commission was well -aware, that
the full wages of seamen had not been paid, probably, in.any
of the cases where such freight was given. But in these and
many other cases which occurred, the board having ascertained
the full amount of the loss, distributed this amount so ascertained, amongst the different parties claiming it before them,
and seeming to have a right to receive it (no- matter in what
character); without deciding or believing itself possessed of
the authority to decide upon the merits of conflikting claims
to the same subject. To whom of right the-sumn thus awarded,
when paid may belong, or for whom, how, or in what degree
the receiver ought to be regarded as a trustee of the sum received, were questions depending upon the municipal laws of
the different states of-the union; the application of which to
the facts existing in any case, the board did not feel itself authorized to make; and therefore abstained from instituting any.
inquiry as to the facts necessary to such .a decision. These
remarks the commission think it proper thus to state, lest their
award may be considered as barring and finally settling pretensions, into which this board have in truth neither made, or
believed itself authorized to make any examination whatever;
but have purposely left open, for the .adjudication of others,
who will have better means- of ascertaining the facts."

SUPREME COURT.
[Sheppard and others vs. Taylor and others.]

Answers were put in by the owner of the Warren and cargo,
After the assignments made by them, answers were filqd by
the several assignees.
The answer of Robert Oliver denies the jurisdiction of the
district court of the United States over the funds in his hands
under the assignment. It states the assignment made to him
by Lemuel Taylor on the 13th of December 1819, of his interest in the ship and cargo; and that the claim was prosecuted
before the commissioners under the Florida treaty: and the
net sum of fifty-eight thousand five hundred and pinety-four
dollars and thirty-two cents was received; all knowledge of
any agrhement between the owners of the Warren and cargo
with the seamen is denied.
The Bank of the United States answered and denied the
jurisdiction of the court: and also all knowledge of the alleged
contract between the original parties to the-cause. The answer
states that the firm of Smith and Buchanan executed a deed of
trust to Ellicott and Meredith on the 9th of November 1820,
being an assignment of their interest in the ship and cargo,
in trust for the Bank of the United States, in the first instance;
and that the trustees had received about fifty thousand dollars.
That at May Term 1825 of the circuit court of the United
States, the bank filed a bill in equity, calling on the trustees to
pay them the money so received; and the same was paid into
court: and the'libellants fileda petition in the cause praying
the court to retain for them so much of the said sum as they
should prove themselves entitled to. The circuit court directed the sum'received by the trustees to be deposited in the
Bank of the United States.
Ellicott and Meredith, assignees in trust of Smith and Buchanan, answered, stating the assignment, and the payment of
the-moneyreceived by them. The Union Bank of Maryland
answered, 'protesting against the jurisdiction of the court, and
stating the assigninent to the bank by Hollins and VI'Blair,
and that they Were ignorant of the claims of the libellants.
On the 16th of March 1827, the district court dismissed the
libel and petition; and the libellants appealed to the circuit.
court. In that court, on the 20th of May 1828, the decree of
tne circuit court was affirmed, and the libellants appealed to
this court. It was understood, that both in the district and
circuit courts, the decrees were entered pro forma.

JAN[JARY.TERM 1831.
[Sheppard and others vs. Taylor and others j

The case was argued by Mr Mayer and Mr Hoffmanfer the
appellants: and for the appellees by Mr Taney and Mr Wirt.
Mr Hoffman and Mr Mayer, for the appellants:
1. The doctrine that "freight is the mother of wages" is
neither absolutely and iniversally, nor even generally true.
Vessels nmay, by the plan of the particular enterprize, sail in
ballast for the whole or the greater part of a voyage; so in
some cases a single package of merchandize might be taken on
freight; and it would be strange to say, that that should be the
exclusive pledge of the sailor's right: and it sometimes happens, that the earning of freight is prevented by a blockade,
or by the misconduct of the master or owners, and yet, in such
cases, wages have been allowed withoutsregard to the fact of
freight earned. If the doctrine of the maxim were true, seamen could not be allowed wages out of savings of wreck; and
it is now settled, that they are allowed as wagesj and not Cs
salvage. The - " safety of the ship," another branch of the
maxim, is not essential to the claim of wages; because they are
awarded even where the ship has been condemned, if the cargo
be restored. The true principle of the seamen's right to wages
must be, that they contract to serve to insure the safety of the
ship; to bring the res safe into the hands ofther owners: for
which the owners are to pay, if no vis major shall occur to
take the vessel out of their hands, or break up the voyage; the
wages-claim being incident to the ship and the voyage, and
not to the freight. Where freight is earned, the seamen, the
law decides, ought to have their wages: but the converse of the
rule is riot true, as is observed by Lord Stowell in the Nep.
tune, 1 Hag. Adm. Rep. 232. These views ae sustained by
the following cases: 2 Peters's Adm.Rep. 426. 2 Mason, 319.
3 Mass. 563. 3 Kent's Com. 145. Antlon's N. P 32..
2. The owners are liable for wages, where they or'the master or their agents are in fault; either negligently or wilfully,
in reference to the ship or the voyage: 'as where they have
deviated from the voyage specified in the seamen's contract;
or have been guilty of contraband trade, not in the view of
both the parties by the contract,.and the vessel is captured and
lost; where the seamen are separated .by cruelty, or without
cause, from the ship; and in all such instances, "theseamen
earn their wages without regard to the fact of the ship's safety.

688

SUPREME COURT.
[Sheppard and others vs. Taylor and others.]

Hoyt vs. Wildfire, 3 Johns. Rep. 518. 2 Peters's Adm. Rep.
261, 266, 403, 40, 437. 9 Johns. Rep. 138, 227. 1 Peters's
Adm. Rep. 51. 1 Mason, 51, 151. 1 Peters's C. C. Rep.
142. 3 Kent. Corn. 144. 2 Peters's Adm. Rep. 415: Abbot, 442, 443, 444, 478, 434, 435, 436. 11 Johns. Rep. 56.
Bee, 395, 402. The Countess of Harcourti 1 Hag. 250. 1
Hag. 347. 2 Rob. 216. 2 Gall. 477. 11 Mass. Rep. 545.
3 Mass. Rep. 472. Anthon's N. P. C. 32. And so where avessel is unseaworthy, at the commencement; and the owners
are only constructivel&in fault. Abbot, 447, 450, 457, 2
Peters's Adm. Rep. 266.
And in all these 'instances, as in the case of sickness and
expenses attending it, the seamen receive damages in the shape
of wages; and the claim is treated precisely as a claim for
wages. 1 Mason, 51. 2 Mason, 541. 1 Dod. 37. 2 Gall.
164. Abbot, 443, 444. The rule is the same where a voyage
is broken up or abandoned before being begun; and dapages
are recovered as wages. Abbot, 449, 450 (notis). 2 Peters's
Adm. Rep. 266. Pothier's Mar. Con. 120, 125.
The ship owners are implicated in the supercargo's conduct,
even where they do not own the cargo: because the freighter
is answerable over to the owners for the supercargo's acts.
Pothier'%Mar. Con. 122, sect. 201. Abbot, 280. 3 Mass.
Rep. 472. Bee, 369.
3. Where seimen suffer in the service of the vessel, whether separated or not from her; their -wages continue, though
their actual labour be suspended, and though the vessel in the
mean time incur heavy loss from the cause which separates the
seamen from the vessel, or occasions their suffering. 1 Peters's
Adm. R. 115, 123, 128. 2 Peters's Adm. Rep. 384. 3
Kent's Coin. 144, 145. Bee, 135. Beale vs. Thompson, 4
East, 546. 1 Dow's Parl. Ca. S. C. 299. 2 Mass. R. 39, 44.
12 Johns. Rep. 324.
The admiralty closely scans the actions of seamen; and even
protects them from the consequences of such as are inadvertently made. 3 Kent's Coin. 136, 141, 150, 154. 1 Hag.
355, 357. Abbott, 435, 449. 1 Peters's Cond.. Rep. 135,'
136, 187.
4. The seamen's claim is not in law connected with the contract of affreightment. It suffers no diminution from any de-

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[Sheppard and others vs.,Taylor and, others.]

lays, or actual loss of profits of the voyage to the ship owners,
in freight, or otherwise. 1 Dow, 299. 4 East, 546. 11
Mass. Rep. 545. 14 Mass. Rep. 74. And so little are the seamen in their right to wages, identified- with the enterprize,
that they do not contribute to general average. 2 Gall. 182,

But as their right is connected with the-ship, they. contribute
to the expense of her ransom; and, perhaps, might be bound to
contribution, on the same principle, in case of recapture.
The cases of seamen darning wages, where there has been -a
capture and recapture, or a capture, condemnation, and ultimate
restoration of the ship, all show that the seaman is legally interested for his wages in no concern of the voyage, eEcept the
ship's safety. And, further, it is in these cases settled: 1st.
That it is the duty of the seamen to remain with the ve ssel
until the first adjudication, and until the hope of recovery shall
thus appear to be gone; and when the. 'vessel is sold and restored,- they are paid their wages out of' the proceeds, up to
the time they so adhere to the vessel. 2d. That where the
vessel is condemned, and that sentence reversed, and freightis decreed, or damages in lieu of freight, wages are payable
for the time of the actual service of the seamen. 12 Johns2 'Mason, 161. 1
2 Gall. 164. Bec, 135.
Rep. 324.
Mason, 45. 1 Peters's Adm. Rep. ;128. 14 Mass. Rep. 72.
Abbott, 459 to 463. 2 Brown's Pennsylvania Rep. 335. S
Kent's Com. 149, 150. 4 East, 546. 1 Dow's Par. Ca. 299.
Further, to show that the seamen's contract is in no wise dependent on the freight, adventure, or' interest; the cases may be
cited, where their wages have been awarded, though the vessel went in ballast, or in quest of freight, and was disappointed: and where it has been settled that the port of destination is in legal effect the port of delivery, if no cargo be in

fact taken thither. 1 Hagg. 233. Abbott, 447,- 300.

1 Pe-

ters's Adm. Rep. 187, in note. 2 Gall. 175. 2 Mason,
319. 7 Taunt. Rep. 319. And so where vessel and cargo
belong to the same persons, no freight actually and literally
is earned, .an4 yet wages fre due. 3 2Kent's Com. 149.
5. The positions stated being sustained, the appellants claim
to be paid the full amount of wages from the commencement of
the voyage throughout the whole tera of imprisonment, and of
VOL. V.-4 M

SUPREME COURT
[Sheppard and others vs. Taylor and others.]

absence from the United States. It is contended, that this
amount ought 'to be paid out of the fund now represented in
court, without regard to the pretensions of the holders of it,
as respects their assignors; or to the fact of all the holders of the
means derived from the treaty, not being before the court in
this case. The claim pervades the whole, and every part of
the fund recovered; and those before the court may recover
the proper contributory portion from such as are not parties;
as in cases of judgment, binding several pieces of land, and
executed entirely upon one: or where, as in Pothier's Mar. Con.
122, sec. 201, the nierchant.occasions a loss, and the ship owner
has to pay the seamen's wages, because of his claim over
against the merchant. Abbott, 245. 1 Stark. 490. 2 Serg.
and Lowb. 480.
6. The resources of the seamen for the payment of their
wages are numerous.
1st. They have the ship as security. Their lien on it is of a
peclliar anl enduring character-- a mortgage created by the
law; which places the ship in the owner's hands, as a trustee
for the seanien's claim. 2 Dodson, 13. 1 Peters's Adm.
Rep. 194, note.%Roccus, 91. 1 Hagg. 238. 4 Mass. Rep. 563.
Although b ottomry liens may be lost by delay, it is not so
with the eamen's lien. Abbot, 131. Laches never divests
the lien, although staleness may destroy the claim. Dorr vs.
Willard, 3 Mason, 91, 161. The lien is paramount to all bottomry liens. The Sidney, Cave, 2 Dod. 13. Abbott, 131.
And even to a claim of forfeiture to the government. The St
Jago de Cuba, 9 Wheat. 409.
The result from these and other eases is, that the seamen's
lien on the ship is not an ordinary lien like that of a factor, or
a mere right to seize or hold; but that they have a quasi proprietary interest, co-extensive with their right of wages; and
operating as a judgment, binding lands, controls and appropriates the estate in them' to. the creditor's benefit
2d. The seaman has alien on the freight for his wages. i
Peters's Adm. Rep. 194, 130. 2 Peters's Adm. Rep. 277.
3 Mason, 163 The master has a lien on the freight for his
advances, and for'his liabilities to the seamen for their wages.
Abbott, 476. 3"Mason, 2553d. He has a lien on the cargo to the extent of freight actu-

JANUARY TERM 1831.
ESheppard and others vs. Taylor and others.]

ally carried, where the owner of the vessel is not the owner
of the cargo; or to the extent of what would be a reasonable
freight where the same person is owner of ship and cargo. 1
Gall. 164.
7. We are next to ascertain 'whether these liens extend in
this case to the proceeds of these. three several specific securities of the seamen; and can reach those proceeds in- the
hands of .assignees like the appellees who hold the funds in
question.
The thing assigned was a mere chose in action, and a claim
for that in which the sailor had a clear interest as a cestui gui
trust: and the object of the assignment was to satigfy antecedent debts not contracted on. the faith of the assignment,
and for which no release, as a consideration for theassignment,
was given.
The owners of the property could assign only an interest
commensurate with their right; and only go far as the sailors'
lien gave the subject free to the owners, had they any right.
The lien of the seamr on die thing is fixed and intrinsic;
and announced by the law on the very face of the thing to
exist: and thus carrying notice ot it to all who claim any benefit out of the specific object; as much so as the law regards all
assignees of a chose in action as owner of the equities between
the original parties to it, and implicated in them. Norton vs.
Rose, 2 Wash. IL 233.
A bonafide purchaser, without notice, takes the thing clear
of all latent equities. 2 Johns. C. L 443. Redfern vs.
Ferrier, 1 Dow. Parl. Ca. 40. But a seaman's lien is not a latent equity.
To show that a lien which is intrinsic, is a legal right, and
not a mere transient and accidental equity, and is not to. be
extinguished by assigpment, the following cases were cited: 3
Meriv. 85, 99 104 106= Mann vs. Shifner, 2 East. L 523.
United States vs. Sturges, 1 Paine's C. C. R. 535; and alsoq,
Abbott, 245 (in notes). Cited also, The Flora, I Hagg. 298;
The St Jago de Cuba, 9 Wheat. 409.
No actual notice to the assignees then was necessary; the
notification of the seamen's lien being furnished by the subject itself. The claim assigned being the effective proceeds
of that to which- the lien adhered, notice was imparted from
the very source of the assignees' title; and it was by law, and

SUPREME COURT.
[sheppard and others vs. Taylor and others.]

so, necessarily known to tiem, because liublished by the law
as a legal right to the whole world, that the claim could not be
prosecuted for the exclusive use of the owners of the ship.
There was, however, notice here to the assignees in fact,
by the history of the claim, which is connected with its title:
and it was like the case, where the tracing of the title may
carry the party t the view of a particular right or circumstance; of which the law then imputes notice to him. There
*was, at least, enough in the events on which the claim arose
to put the party on inquiry, and so to affect him with iotice.
1 Johns. C. R. 302. 8 Johns. C. R. 345. 5 Johns. C. R.
427. 7 Cranch, 507, 509. There was too a lispendens, to
give notice of the seamen's pretensions; the suit of the seamen
against the owners at the period of the assignments. 1 Johns.
C. R. 566. 3 Mason, 187. 2 Rand. R. 93. Cited also, 3.
Kent's Com. 175. Abbott, 244,245.- Campbell vs. Thompson, l°Stark. Rep. 590. Roccus, note xci. 1 Dod. 31. 2
Dod. 13. 2 Gall. 330. 4 Cranch, 332. 2 Brown's L. 143.
.Having thus identified the assignees with the owners, it is
to be seen whether there is any-thing in the nature of the
seamen's present claim, or of the fund in question,, which prevents a lien arising, or has intercepted that lien. It may be
premise4, that the means from which satisfaction is sought, if
referred to the royal act, may be regarded as flowing rather
from an act of state, than a judicial decision. The legal
nature of the fund is not varied by this circumstance, as concerns the sailors' rights. 'Beale vs. Thompson, 4 East, 561.
8. It cannot be said, that looking to the fund in question,
the appellants are endeavouring to get the benefit of a matter
of damages to .Which the lien of the seamen cannot attach, or
a mere matter of indemnification collateral entirely to the r.
Whenever the specific thing is not restored, the satisfaction, technically speaking, is regarded as damages; but there
is no reason why the moneys which, afford that satisfaction
may not be regarded as the effective substitute of the thing.
Manrb vs. Almeida, 10 Wheat. 473. In case of reversal of
condemnation of property, and-an intermediate sale, the
restitution of the proceeds of sale-is-virtually only a satisfaction in damages, and is so considered; damages being contradistinguished from the specifie thing. Willard vs. Dorr, 3

JANUARY TERM 1831.
(Sheppard and others vs. Tylor and -others.]

Mason, 164." So it is said-In 1 Peters, 130, that wages shallbe
allowed in the case there put, "Kif freight be awarded, or
damages in lieu of it."
There is nothing, therefore, in the mere term of damaages,
so vague and transitory, that they can be identified-in law to
nothing specific. Beside, if there be but damages in question,
they are fixed and liquidated by the royal order of Spain, in
1815, before the assignment; and in that award we heffld a vested interest, although it be even admitted that only a claim Was
by it establighed. The commissioners under the treaty with
Spain, merely executed the royal order: affording only the
satisfaction which under that order the officers of Spaiinshouid
have afforded. There was a sufficient grievance for the redress of the commissioners, in the fact that Spain had by the
royal order directed the satisfaction, and that the authorities
had not obeyed the direction. The merits of the case, antecedent to the royal order, need not have been presented-to the
commissioners. The order, and the commissioners in their
award, speak too only of. a restitution of -pr9ceeds;" so that
the appellants have the benefit of that lihrase for the moneys
we claim, if there be any force in it. The commissioners
awarded what the King of Spain had directed to be done, and
because it had been so directed. Our interest in the case,
therefore, relates back to the date of the royal order; overreaching the assignments.
It may be said, that this is an attempt to follow a matter of
damages, as would be the case of a seaman claiming wages.
out of a recovery upon an insurance of a vessel, when she has
beeq totally lost; or out of a recovery, of damages for a collision, when by that circumstance a vessel has been lost. In
both such cases it is admitted as a general rule, that the seaman
would be entitled to no satisfaction. 2 Peters's Adm. R. 276.
11 Johns. R. 279. Abbott, 257, 457. 18 Johns. R. 257.
The difficulty in the way of the seaman, in either of te
supposed analogous cases is not that the fund recovered cannot
be considered as the substitute of the res;but only that the
seaman has no claim against the owner, for which either the
res, or the fund, can be a collateral resource: for in every case of
a-total loss of the res, if the equivalent res be made liable, it is
only nnder a charge or lien that must be ihcidental to a per-

SUPREME COURT.
[Sheppard and others vs. Taylor and others.]

sonal right; a claim against the owner. Supposing, therefore,
the perfect innocence of the owner respecting the loss of the
vessel in the .two cases; it would appear that the very event
which puts an _nd to the seamen's claim,gives rise to a collateral demand of the owners. Could the success of the
owners in that demand revive the already extinct claim of
the seamen? Can a lien exist, unless to support and effectuate a claim ? Is not in the cases supposed the right or
complaint of the owner founded on the reason that he has
been prevented from attaining that benefit, which, after deduction ofexpenses, including of course seamen's wages, would
have resulted to him. from the voyage? The claim of the
seamen being gone, by the fact of the disaster; the recovery
can ]=Ve no respect to it as an incumbent, burden on the
owners. What then is the portion of the recovery that answers to the seamen's wages?
In the case of the insurance recovery, it was further observed that, to mke the seamen's wages good out of the
lund recovered, would (where the claim of the seamen is supposed to be.gone) be allowing the seamen in effect to insure
their wages;-which is not pei-mitted.
In 3 Mass. R. 443, a satisfaction of a claim, as that here in
question, under a treaty is regarded as salvage. Courts of
admiralty are courts of equity, in reference to all rule of interpretation, and as regards all constructions. They decide ex
mquo et bono; and require but certainty to guide them, and
substance to rest upon. Abbott, 435. 3 Mason, 16, 17, 263.
Abbott, 435. And all these elements are here-found, to connect.the fund in question with the original res.
9. It may be said that viewing the fund here as proceeds,
it'has lost the legal qualities of the specific thing; that it is
tn'ned into mere currency; and not specifically liable any
more than would be the generalmeans of the owners.
It is a well established rule of common law and eqluity, that
the proceeds or pecuniary result of the thing is regarded as
the represen'tative of the thing; as the thing itself: and that
money may be specifi-ally appropriated,' and bound, if it can
be traced, and, as a funa, idlentified.. And such is'the principle-1oo of admiralty. 1 Johns. C. R. 119. 2 Johns. C. R.
4 44. 4 Johns. C. R. 136. 7 Johns. C. R. 52.. 6 Johns. C.

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[Sheppard and othersas. Taylor and others.]
R.'360. 2 East, 523. D'Wolf vs. Harris, 4 Mason, 515.
Smart vs. Wolf, 3 Term Rep. 323. Park, 53. Jacobson's
Sea Laws, 276.
Hunter vs. Prinsep, 10 East-378.
1
Day, 193. 4 Rob. Ad. Rep. 302, 314, 347. 2 Rob. Ad.
R. 343. Cowp. Rep. 251, 271. 15. Mass. 408. 1 Barr.
R. 489. 6 Price's Ex. Rep. 309. Camp. N. P. C. 251.
3 Bos. and Pull. 449. 5 Barn. and Ald. 27. 1 P. W. 737.
1 Atk. 94, 102, 232. 2 Vern. 566. Co. Bank. Law, 556.
1 T. R. 26, 747. 3 Mason, 238. 1 Mason, 99. United
States vs. Peters, 5 Cranch, 115, 2 Peters's Cond. Rep. 202. Assuming that, in point of law, the assignees stand identified with the ovners, in reference to the fund, which the 4ppel]ants heretofore endeavoured.to establish; it is- clear that the
fund is affected by the lien of qur demand, as the res, from
which it springs, would be.
10. It may be said, however,' that whatever'may be the
prifieiple as to the lien on the proceeds, yet that the admiralty
cannot carry its jtrisdetion to the proceeds which -hare
beei produced on land, and by distinct operations there; and
that the lien or specifie claim can only be-effectuated in a court
of equity. It is difficult to see what greater advantages that
court could afford to any of the parties, especially since an admiralty court, as has been shown, acts as.a court of equity; and
where a court of admiralty has possession of a marine subject,
as a marine claim or the res invol.ved in it, it will, by its incidentaljurisdiction.,go'on as a court of equity to distribute a
fund among claimants; over whosb commands it could pretend
to no original jurisdiction. Tife -Yacket, 3 Mason, 263. 4
Mason, 386, 387. 1 Hagg. 356, 357. .he
assignees tare
here amenable to this jurisdiction, as the possessors of the fund,
as which they are liable equally with the fund itself. 1 Qall.
75. 1 Show. 177. 3 T. R. 332. 10 Wheat. 497. 1 Mason, 99. 7Ves. Jun. 593. 10 Wheat. 473. The fund, as the
result of the thing, is like the thing, subject'to the admiralty
jurisdiction. This grows out of the powers of incidental judicature, belonging to a court of admiralty. "This incidental
power necessarily attaches to all jurisdictions.' As regards the
admiralty, it is not confined to prize jurisdiction. 2 Peters's
Cond. Rep. 2 (note), . 2 Wheat. App. 2. 2 Browns Ad.
101. 8 Cranch, 138

SUPREME COURT.
tSheppard and others vs. Taylor and others.]

It once being admitted that the fund is in law liable for the
claim, it is clear from the authorities, that the admiralty must
have jurisdiction to apply those means; since it is established,
that if the original Uaim be Within the admiralty cognizance,
all that is necessary to enforce or satisfy that claim, whether
as.respectg persons or property, is within the jurisdiction; and
that without regard to locality. 3 T. R. 333, 344. 1 Peters's
Adm. Rep. 12.6, 232. 2 Peters's Adm. Rep. 309, 324. Abbott, 483. . 4. Cranch, 431. 2.Gall. 435, 436, 446, 462.
1 Vent. 173, 308. Hardr. 473. 1 Lord Ray. 22, 271. 2
Lord Ray. .1644, 1285. 12 Mod. 16. 2 Lev. 25. Cro.
Elizab. 685. Rolle's Abr. 533. 12 Co. 97. 1 Lev. 243.
3 T. R. 207. 3Pee, 99, 370, 404. Carth. 499. 2 Mason, 541.
.3 Mason, 255. "4 Mason, 380. 1 Mason, 99. 1 Hagg. 298.
9 Wheat. R. 409. 2 Price's Ex. R. 125. 10 Wheat. 497.
7 Ves. Jun. 593. 2"Str. 761. 3 Mass. R. 161
11. It may be objected, however, that the royal act in the
case is a judicial declaration of the innocence of the owners,
and cannot be averred against by these libellants; but is conclusive against their present claim, which is founded on the
idea of the breach of contract by the owners; a conclusion di-.
rectly the reverse of the royal decision: and, secondly that the
libellants'cannot contradictthat decision, because they-seek the
benefit of a fund which flows from it, and .of a retribution
which could have been awarded only to owners free of the delinquency charged in the libel.
On these objections it may be observed, that the act of the
king of Spain, according to its purport, may fairly be deemed
only a bounty prescribed for prudential reasons, and prompted
by motives of state, under the fanicied power of reprisals
threatened; as the royal missive says, to be exercised by the
senate of Maryland. It professes not to be an examination of
the facts of the case, nor to know any thing of the confiscation
that had taken place in Chili; and declares, in effect, that
the proceeding in the cause was, at the time of the royal award,
before the council of the Indies, in the regular order of judicial
investigatioL.
It is contended, on the other side, that the royal decree is
a judicial decree, and in rem, and like a prize court decree,
and in its conclusive scope embracing all the world. Admit-

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[Sheppard azld thers vs. Taylor and others.]

ting that it is a judicial decree, and that the king sat as prizejudge in pronouncing it; it will still be inoperative as against
us, when all the principles are taken into view which regulate
the effect of such decrees. It is a general principle, that judgments are binding onlkr on those who are parties to them: and
it is said by justice Washington in 4 Cranch, 434, that the
conclusiveness of foreign sentences was not to be enforced as
a departure from that general principle; but that that, as understood and applied, was only a sequel of that very principle.
The sailors were not parties to this supposed- decree of Spain,
actually; and they were not so constructively; if the views
presented by us be correct, as to the distinctness of the claim
involved in the Spanish cause, and that now in question. In
prize sentences, and in exchequer decrees, all are supposed to
be parties who have a legal interest in the questions directly
in the cause; and all such are allowed to intervene, and are
therefore regarded as actually parties; whether they avail
themselves of their privileges, or forbear to do so. Hardr.
194. 2 W. Black. 977. 5 T. R. 255. 13 John. 561. 3
Wheat. 246, 315. The Apollon, 9 Wheat. 362. 2 Evans's
Pothibr, 350 t6 354. Hence the conclusiveness of these judicial acts; and such is the standard and limit of their operation;
extensive as it is, but not unbounded. This. is the position, in
effect, of chief justice Marshall, in 9 Crancb, 126. No one is
bound by a judgment who was not actually a party to it, or
might have made himselfso, is.the principle of common law,
as to judgments generally; and, we see, is not deviated from in
the case of the sentences and decrees now in question. 2
Stark., 191. So at common law, no judgment is conclusive beyond the point decided. 2 Bac. Abr. 630. 1 Paine's C. C.
R. 552. So a prize sentence or a decree of an ecclesiastical
court, is conclusive against all legally concerned in the point of
the decree, only as to the fact concluded, on which the decree is
founded; and only as regards the direct operation of the decree or sentence. 2 Evans's Pothier, 355, 356. 8 T. R. 192.
The result of the decisions then is, that in fixing th6 conclusive operation of these sentences regard must be had to the
particular right in question; and the sentence is'evidence of
the fact on which it rests, only so far as the fact bears any reVOL. V.-4 N*

SUPREME COURT.
[Sheppard and others vs. Taylor and others.]

lation to that right. Hence, these positions have been determined:
1st. That nothing collateralisto be inferred from these sentences. I'Salk. 290. 11 St. Tr. 261. 2 Stark. 234.
2d. That nothing is considered as established by them, except that without which they could not have been pronounced;
that is, the points of right; and the points of fact, as related to
the questions of the right specially under adjudication. 3
Craneh, 488. 4 6rancb, 2. Jennings vs. Carsony 2 Peters's
Cond. Rep. 2. The Mary, 9 Cranch, 126. Sims, administrator vs. Slacum, 3 Cranch's R. 300. Ammidon vs. Smith,
1 Wheat. 447.
3d. That courts, when a sentence of this kind is invoked,
will examine into all the facts on which it is founded; except
only that concluded point of fact, perhaps, which is the
direct and essential basis of the sentence. 4 Cranch, 185.
'6Cranch, 29.
These positions seem to follow from the principles of justice
that should regulate judgments; and without them there would,
in the efficacy of foreign sentences, be a departure from the
fair rule of law that judgments shall bind only parties; and
Mr Justice Washington's remark, already referred to, as to
the force of these sentences, would not be sustained.
If the act of the king'of Spain does not conclude the rights
of the appellants, it cannot be pretended that such can be the
effect of the award: of the commissioners under the Florida
treaty. That award, we have endeavodre'd to show, was nothing more than the execution of the royal order; or rather
-was founded on the conclusiveness" of that royal order, as a testimorial of the right of the owners to redress at the hands of
Spain., And the disobedience of the Spani~h authorities was,
of itself, a grievance, in behalf of which the commissioners
would interpose; without looking into the circumstances of the
owners' case as that stood when under judgment before the king
of Spain. Consequently, the award and the royal order are to
every effect identified; and are as much so as the judgment of
the appellate tribunal is identified with that of the original. A
reference to the report of the commissioners of their proceed.ings, which was made at the close of the commission, will
support these views: as to the light in which they regarded the

JANUARY 'TERM i8i.
[Sheppard and others vs. Taylor ind others.]

acts of the government, or of the judicial authorities of Spain
in the particular cases.
With regard, however, to the effect of these. awards, this
court has already determined, that the equities of n6ne shall
be precluded by them, whose pretensions have not been actu-,
ally and directly passed upon by the awards. Comegys vs.
Vasse, 1 Peters, 212, 213.
It is said, finally, that any recovery of the libellants in this
cause must be limited to the amount of freight of the voyage;
and to that amount as adjusteZI by the award of the commissioners. As regards the effect of that adjustment, having shown
that our claim is not under the royal act, or under the award, it
can be subject to no limitation by virtue of either. The freight
awarded, if it is supposed to have included in its estimate the
claim of seamens' wages, cannot be understood to have considered the enhanced wages, nor the claim for the long confinement in prison, and the whole period of suspension of our labours, which, though regarded as wages in admiralty, are
intrinsically damages. The award, as concerns the freight,
cannot be considered, then, as involving an ascertainrient .of
the amount of our claim; and the freight fund is not consequently to be regarded, as our opponents' proposition would
view it, a trust fund, of which only a part belongs to us; and
that part regulated by the proportion which our wages might
bear to the whole expenses of the voyage. On the other
hand, there is no principle which would make even the full
amount of the freight the limit of our recovery. If the owners had -been perfectly innocent, and our claim Were not
founded, for almost the whole amount, on their wrong; there
might be reason for saying, that our,recovery should diminish
in proportion to the deficiency of freight awarded to the
owners; as might, in such a case, .be inferred to be the
proper rule, from 3 Mason, 163. But, even in such a case,
there would be nothing to exonerate the ship from the charge;
which by all is admitted, to be subject to the lien. Freight, as
clearly, we think, is subject 'to this lien; and we hold that at
least freight and ship are here chargeable: but that under the
decision of judge Ware, and the positive authorities to which
he refers, the cargo also is liable to the extent of a reasonable
freight. The evidence in this cause shows that the fair freight

SUPREME COURT.
[Sheppard and others w. Taylor and others.]

-

-on such a voyage as the Warren's, would vastly have exceeded
the amount granted by the commissioners. If their award be
not binding against our rights, as we have endeavoured to
show, why'should their estimate of the freight supersede all
the evidence adduced to show its.proper amount? If the owners of the ship had not owned the cargo, and a freight had been
actually charged on it; our pretensions could not have transcended the value of the ship and of the freight, as charged:
but, ship and cargo belonging to the same persons, the freight
is but a speculative item; and the amount is to be determined
by evidence such as we have adduced, and on the supposition
of the ship owners not owning the cargo. The proceeds of
the cargo, it is always to be presumed, will pay all the freight
,and expenses attending it. Whatever sum, therefore, the
commissioners have failed to allow less than the fair'charge of
freight, is to be considered as part of the proceeds of cargo
illowed-for. To the extent 'of that reasonable freight, therefore,.we should be permitted to be satisfied out of the freight
'awarded, and out of the pr6ceeds of cargo allowed.
Unconnected as the mariner's contract has been shown to
be with the contract of affreightment,.it seems strange that our
claim, is to be commensurate only with the amount of freight;
and that, -too, awarded by a tribunal whose act is in no wise
eonclusive, to any- extent, against us,,as regards the merits of
our claim.
Mr Taney and Mr Wirt for the assignees, appellees, stated:
that the aisignees, for whom alone they appeared, were notinterested in controverting the allegations of the illegality of
the Warren's voyage, or the fraud charged to have been practised upon the'libellants by the owners; and those points of
faet.would, theefore, not, be contested; but, as concern., the
assignees, may be deemed to be conceded. And the only
points of law which would be controverted among those pre-srtedin the statement of the appellants, aie those which are involved .in .the following propositions, .on which alone they
I
should insist:
1. That the fund received by the assignees under the award
of the commissioners, as stated in the record, is not liable, in,
their hands, for.the wages claimed, or any part of them.

JANUARY TERM 1l31.
[Sheppard and others vs. Taylor and others.]

2. If the fund in the hands of the assignees be liable for the
wages or any part of them;-the admiralty court, in its character of an instance court, has not jurisdiction to compel payment.
3. If the fund in the hind of the assignees be liable, and the
court q. admiralty have jurisdiction to enforce it, the libellants
are entitled to recover only such proportion" of the sum
awarded for freight, as was given as a compensation for wages.
The claim originally.presented in this case was against the
owners personally. It was founded on no idea of a lien.. It
asserted no right against the ship, that having been condemned
and the lien gone; nor did it assume that any freight had been
or Would be 'earned, or that any restitution would or might
he madeby Spain. The pretension of the claimants had no reference to any restoration by Spain, until after the treaty was, in
1819, entered into with Spain. Theassignments to the appellees (who alone are here represented) were made in 1819,
1820, and 1821. They are absolute; without any reservation
for the seamen's claims. The libel alleges no notice to the assignees of these claims; and no contract between the assignees
and sailors is pretended to exist. The original proceedings.
pursue a personalremedy; and the amended libel purposes to
enforce the claim against a fund, under an asserted lien which
is to overreach the 'assignments. These claims are at -war
with each other; the latter cannot be an incident to the former.
1. The fund in question accrues under that section of the
treaty with Spain (the Florida treaty, sect. 9), which establishes indemnification for unlawful seizures; the United States
being bound, by the eleventh section, to pay thecompensation.
,Thus Spain owed' as a debt to our citizens; and she placed
funds in the hands of the United States to pay it: thus maling
the latter trustees for the claims of a particular description;
for claims, among others, arising from unzlawful seizur.
The commissioners of claims under the treaty have decided
the seizure in this case to le unlawful; but, admitting the'inquiry.to be yet open, and that this court should decide the
seizure in Chili to have been lawful; what claim Would the
seamen -have to this fund which was to pay debts of which
seamen's wages was not one.

SUPREME COURT.
[Sheppard and others vs. Taylor and others.]

These seamen had no claim on Spain; and the fund which
the treaty furnished belongs only to persons who had claims
against her; and a decision that the voyage was illegal, or that
the royal decree was obtained bk fraud, would create no right
for the seamen. Nor would they defive any claim from the
royal decree, if considered as an act of munificence. But the
only ground on which their claim can colourably be set up, is
the illegality of the seizure, and that there has been no change
of property; all which is contradictory to the principle on
which the fund has been awarded, and which must determine
its distribution. Upon the cases iii 1 Bos. and Pull. 3, 296,
and 5 Term Rep. 562, cited in answer to these views, it is to
be observed, that there the fund was admitted to have been
received for the benefit of the plaintiffs; and therefore the court
would not allow the inquiry into the ill-gal source of it.
-Ifthe fund be the result of fraud in imposing on the king
of Spain, this court will not touch it. If thus produced, it
does not belong to any of the parties now before the court, but
should have been distributed among the other claimants under
the treaty; the treaty not having furnished a full indemnification.
It is immaterial whether the seamen were concerned or not
in the fraud, so far as respects the present question; but the
case shows that they were induced to abstain from appearing
before the'commissioners in opposition to the assignees. If
the fund was the product of fraud, it does not represent the *es
ipwa; nor is it a case, as presented, where 'there could be a
spes recuperandt, if the voyage was unlawful and the capture
legal.
All this might be open to inquiry, if the proceedings were
against the owners. The award of the commissioners is, however, conclusive, and we .cannot go behind it. Comegys vs.
Vasse, 1 Peters, 193. The libel in 1810, against the owners,
in personam, was proper; and cannot assume a different shape
when the fund comes into existence. The ship being gone, and
the lien with it, the claim should continue inper8onam, if it
may be prosecuted against the owners. We, however, defend
only the fund; and need not inquire how.far the owners may
be personally liable. The claim now pursued cannot be a lien
on the debt, unless the debt was due to the owners: and, ac-

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[Sheppard and others vs. Taylor and others.]

cording to the case as exhibited by the complainants, nothing
was due. to the owners. 1 Peters, 212.
In this view of the subject, the demand of the seamen can
avail, at all events, only against such proportion of the commissioners' allowance for freight, as included wages; and
the amount of that would be small. 1 Peters's Adm. Rep.
130. 3 Mason, 166. The amount to be recovered would
be very different from that which in a suit against the
owners would be allowed, where the voyage Was lost by the
fraud of the owners, and the sufferings of the seamen were imputable to them. 3 Kent's Coin. 145, 146, 149. But the
imposition practised upon the seamen by the owners, gave
them no claim against the Spanish government, The innocency of their intentions might excuse them from punishment,
but could not entitle them to reward.
If the seizure were deemed unlawful, and a restoration
made, the owners, but not the fund restored, would be liable
for all wages; because, with the condemnation of the rest
the wages are lost and gone. The restozation. of a. sum as'
freight might reattach the lien'to the money, if received by
or under control of the owners; but not to the money if
owned by assignees. I Peters's Adm. Rep. 130, 186, note.'
3 Mason, 91, 92, 95. 3 Kent, 149.
In reference to the freight, or 'damages in its place, the
right to wages springs into existence at the moment when the
money comes into the hands of the owners. If the owners are
free from blame, and they receive the freight-fund, they are
liable for the wages only upon the equity of their contract; and
although the wages-claim may depend on the contingency of
receiving freight, yet it is not a lien on. the fund, but rests exclusively in contract, and on the persional liability of the
owners.
There was no lien for the wages on this fund. On the ship
it existed; and, until P lawful condemnation, might have been
pursued: but there was no lien on the claim against the foreign
government; and none attaching to that .debt the proceeds of
the debt could not be subject to it. If the debt be due at all,
it is so from the moment of the unlawful condemnation and
sale. How can the demand be a lien on the money received
from the debt if not a lien on the debt itself ? Suppose the

SUPREME COoURT.
[Sheppard and others vs. Taylor andothers.]

owners to be solvent in this case: the owners becoming liable
as soon as they had received the money, would there at the
same time be a lien on the fund in the hands of the assignees?
The true principle would seem to be, that on restitution and
allowance of freight, the owner is personally liable on his contract to the seamen; but the ship being gone, there can be no
lien on it. It is so treated in 3 Mason, 91, 92, 95. 2 Mass.
R. 39, 44. 2 Dods. 13. Abbott, 247, 476. 1 Barn. and
Aid. 575. All liens are attached to the thing, or to what
is placed as its substitute in the bands of the court, and
through the act of the court; but not to what is the result
or proceeds of the thing after many mutations. If a ship, liable to a lien for wages, were exchanged for another, the lien
would not become attached to the ship received in exchange,
nor upon any other specific substitute for the ship. Thus in
Brooks vs. Dorr, 2 Mass. R. 39, 44, the underwriters, on
abandonment, had taken the ship, but they were not held answerable for the wages. So owners receiving freight from underwriters are not on that account liable for wages. The
assignees.here stand precisely on the ground with underwriters after abandonment. 3 Kent, 153. 1 Peters's Adm. Rep:
213, 214. 3 Mass. R. 563.
The claim of the seamen, being in suspense, could not be a
lien. Suppose the fund in question had been paid to the agent
of the owners, and he had remitted, and they had drawn for
it; would the claim have been a lien on the demand in the
hands of the payee; nay, of every indorser who had notice?
Or suppose the owners, after wages earned, sell the ship, will
they be a lien on the debt due from the purchaser? Or suppose the owners had received the fund here and paid it to the
assignees, they having notice; could it be followed by the seamen in the hands of the assignees? Or suppose a mortgagor
of personal property sells it, and receives a note for it, which
he assigns; or that he assigns the claim against the purchaser,
and that the property perishes; can the debt.be followed by
the lien in the hands of the assignee?
Through how many changes is this lien to follow? 1. The
ship; 2. The money in the Chilian treasury; S. The debt from
the Spanish-government; 4. The Florida lands; 5. The money
paid for those lands.

JANUARY TERM 1831
[Sheppard and others vs. Taylor and others.]

It is said that the assignee of a claim takes it subject to all
equities. This is true as between debtor and creditor; and, so
far as there is any'equity of Spain, the debtor, the assignees
take it subject to it; because of Spaiu they can inquire: but not
so as-to a third person. It is to be proved, that the debt due
from the king of Spain was incumbered .with this claim of
seamen's wages.
The assignees had no notice of this claim. The libel does
not charge it, and the answers deny it. A lis pendens is notice, but only of the particular claim in the suit; and that here
was a claim against the owners, personally; not upon the foundation.of a .demand against the .spes recuperandi. It was,
therefore, not notice of a claim against the fund, but rather a
disdclaimer of such pretension. The royal order was in 1815,,
and yet the libel of the seamen continued in'personzm, andwas
for a personal injury-under the charge of fraud and imposition.
If .the seamen had appeared before the commissioners, they
cotild not have decreed any thing for them, for they had no
claim on the Spanish government. They certainly are not
entitled on the ground that they concealed, what if disclosed,
as they seem to allege, would have defeated the recovery of
the assignees before the commissioners. But the order of the
commissioners must speak for itself: and that awards the fund
to the assignees, and on the ground of the unlawfulness of the
seizure; which contradicts and repels the basis and merits of
the present demand against *thefund.
2. If the fund be liable to this claim, the assignees are to be
considered as receiving it as trustees; and if they be trustees, a
court of admiralty has no jurisdiction in this case. 1 Peters'sAdm. Rep. 212, 213,,214, 215. 8 Johns. Rep. 237. 1 Ves.
Sen. 98. 3 Mass. Rep, 464. 5 Rob. Adm. Rep. 155, 158,
160. The obligation to pay here, if it exist, must arise from
a contract implied by courts of common law and of equity;
and this contract cannot be the foundation of proceedings in
the instance court. The only ground of claim on which the
appellants,'rely is the supposed lien. But it must be remembered, that the present is a proceeding in rm, and notin personam; and the question of lien is not identical with that of
jurisdiction, which last is the antecedent inquiry: a jurisdic- ,
VOL. V.-4 0

SUPREME COURT.
[Sheppard and others -s. Taylor and others.]

tion once established over the res, the court then, but not until
then, exercises incidental powers; and may over such an admitted subject ofjurisdictiont,, act upon the principles of a court
of equity. But the res must be in possession of the instance
court to attach the jurisdiction, and that res to which the lien
was fastened. 4 Cranch, -23. 1 Paine, 620. 1 Gall. 75.
The case is not to be likened to that of a prize court's jurisdiction, for that jurisdiction is exclsive, and no other court
can try the questions. And in prize courts, therefore, the
proceeds are followed, not by reason of any supposed lien,
but because the question .of prize or no prize is involved in the
controversy. Doug. 594, 613, note. 3 T. R. 323. 6 Taunt,
439. 2 Brown's Adm. L.'217, 218, 219. 1 Dall. 218. 1 Bay,
470. 16 Johns. Rep. 327. No aid can, therefore, be borrowed
from the dpcisions in prize causes: d prize court followingtheproceeds, not on the ground of lien, but of exchsive jurisdiction.
But where is this jurisdiction to end? In the cases of prize,
when the rights of parties, immediately springing from the
'capture, are settled, the jurisdiction ceases; but not so with this
doctrine of lien on the proceeds of the res ipasa, which would
make the jurisdiction, it would seem, interminable. The ship
is sold for. goods; the goods are converted into money; the
money is investeat in land; yet it is still proceeds subject to
the lien, and liable to be followed by the admiralty court, and
subject to its jurisdiction. And under the authority of 1 Paine's
C. C. Rep. 180, it is said too, that notice is'not necessary to
charge the hona fide purchaser, in the pursuit of these proceeds.
S. So far as this fund is concerned, it is conclusively settled
thaf the seizure was unlawful and the owners not in fault; and
the voyage not having been performed, it is only the recovery.
and receipt of the freight which gives the right to wages, and
furnishes the fund for paying them. Ths entire freight was
not allowed by the commissioners. The full amount due -as
claimed, and proved, was forty thousand dollars; and theamount
allowed was only thirteen thousand eight hundred and sixty
dollars. As freight then, for the whole voyage, was not allowed; the seamen are entitled to wagespro rataonly. 3 Masen,.
166. 3 Kent's Coin. 149. 1 Peters's Adm. Rep. 186, Judge
Winchester's Opinion. 10 Mass. Rep. 143.

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[Sheppard and others vs. Taylor and others.)

It does not appear for what part of the voyage freight was allowed. The just rule-in this case then, as laid down in 3
Kent's Com. 149, would seem to be, to regulate the amount of
wages by the amount of freight recovered; that is, to apportion
it between the owners and the seamen. In reference to the present questions as to thefund, the owrners in distributing the fund
are to be regarded as innocent sufferers, and share in the freight.
By the royal order, they were entitled to three hundred thousand dollars; but the commissioners' award gave them (subject
to the deduction of one-t~elfth) only one hundred and sixtynine thousand one hundred and fifty dollars, and ninety-eight
cents. Two months wages had been advanced to the seamen
at the beginning of the voyage. The amount of freight awarded, was not in the control'of the owners. If no freight had
been awarded, the seamen, according to our present views,
would have become entitled to no wages. To make theamount
of wages then more than proportional to the amount of freight
recovered, would be to punisb th owners for not abandoning
all claim for freight.
The wages cannot be recovered for a period beyond the
time of capture, making a term of five months; from which
must be deducted two months, the wages for that time being
paid in advance.
This view is founded on the conclusive nature of the award.
Mr Justice STORy delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is an appeal from a pro forma decree of the circuit
court of the district of Maryland, in a case in admiralty, for
mariners' wages. The original libel (which was filed in December 1810) was against the owners in personam; alleging
among other things, that the libellants (six in number)shipped
ou bound the Warren in August 1806, to perform a voyage
from Baltimore to the northwest coast, thence to Canton in
the East Indies, and thence back again to Baltimore; that they
proceeded on the voyage; but that with the privity and consent of the owners the ship deviated, without any justifiable
cause, from the voyage, and arrived at Conception Bay on the
coast of Chili, for the purpose of carrying on an illicit trade
against-the dolonial laws of Spain; that the vessel was there

SUPREME COURT.
[Sheppard and others vs. Taylor ana others.]

seized by the 'Spanish authorities, and finally decreed to, be forfeited; the crew were taken on shore and held for a great length
of time in imprisonment; and afterwards, having effected their
escape, arrived in the United States in 1810. The owners appeared and mnade a defensive answer; which was excepted to,
and afterwards amended. Some testimony was taken; but no
further proceedings appear to have been had until October
1818, when .an amended libel was filed by the libellants and
others (in all fifty-seven persons); and in June 1819 another
amended libel by another.of the seamen. The only allegation
in these supplements which it is material to mention is, that
the owners had received-tije whole or a part of the proceeds of
-the ship and cargo. At a later period in the year 1819, alfthe
owners became insolvent. In December 1819, Lemuel Taylor (one of the owners) assigned to Robert Oliver all his interest in the proceeds of the Warren and cargo, whenever recovered; in November 1820, Smith and Buchanan (two other
o~wners) assigned, among other things, all their interest in the
proceeds of the ship and cargo to Jonathan Meredith and Thomas Ellicott, in trust for the Bank of the United States and
other creditors; and in May 1821, Hollins and M'Blair, the
other owners, assigned all their interest in the pioceeds of the
ship and cargo to the Union Bank: all these assignments were
made to secure debts antecedently due. Long before these assignments, to wit in June 1815, the owners had procured from
the king of Spain a royal order for the restitution of the ship
and cargo. But no restitution having been in fact made, the
assignees laid their claim before the commissioners appointed
under the treaty with Spain of 1819, commonly called the
Florida treaty; and the commissioners in 1824 awarded them
compensation as follows: for the shiI Warren twenty-five
thousand dollars; for the cargo, one hundred and twenty-ve
thousand one hundred and thirty-one dollars and ninety-tree
cents; and for the freight thirteen thousand eight hundred and
sixty dollars. This amount was accordingly paid to them by
the United States. In December 1825, the libellants filed a
new libel by way of petition against the owners, and against
their assignees, setting forth their grievances in a more aggra-vated form; and alleging the award and receipt of the proceeds

JANUARY TERM 1831.
ESheppard and others vs. Taylor and others.]

by the assignees, and the promises of the owners to indemnify
-and pay them out of the proceeds, whenever redovered,.fo the
full amount of their wages; and accounting for their not having
proceeded to a decreejn personam, against the owners; except
so far as to have a docket entry, in June 1822, of a "cdecree
on terms to be filed" (which was afterards rescinded), solely
upon the faith of those promises; and praying process against
the owners, and also against the assignees, to pay them the
amount out of the proceeds in their hands. Answers were
duly filed by the owners and the asdignees; the former asserting
that they -had parted with 611 their interest in the funds;
and the latter asserting their eiclusive title to the same under
the assignments, and denying any knowledge of any agreement of the owners in respect to the claim of wages, or of the
other matters stated in the petition.
Further testimony was taken; and finally, by consent of the
parties at May term 1828, a decree pro forma passed, affirming the decree of the district court, dismissing the libels and
petition exhibited in the cause: from "which decree the case
now stands upon appeal before this court.
Such is a very brief statement of the principal proceedings
in this protracted sdit: in. its duration almost unparalleled in
the annals of the admiralty; whose anxious desire and boasted
prerogative it is to administer justice, as the metaphor is, velis
levatis. A great portion .of the delay (which would oierwise
seem a reproach to our law), can be attributed to no other
cause than the voluntary acquiescence of all the parties, under
the peculiar circumstances growing out of new emergencies in
its progress.
The cause has been most elaborately and learnedly argued
atthe bar, upon a variety of points suggested by the different
postures of the care. The view, however, taken by us of the
merits, renders it wholly uinnecessary.for'us to go into any
examination of many of these points; and this opinion will be
accordingly confined to those only which are indispensable to
a decision; and which, we trust, after such a lapse of time will
prove a final decision.
The first question is, whether in point of fact the libellants
have substantially sustained the allegations in 'the libels and

SUPREME COURT.
[Sheppard and others vs. Taylor and others.]

petition in respect to the voyage; to their ignorance of the intended illicit trade; to the seizure of the ship and to their own
imprisonment and separation from it: which are necessary to
maintain their claim for wages. And we are of opinion that
the evidence upon these points is conclusive. Without going
into the particulars, it may be said that few cases could bepresented under circumstances of more aggravation; and in which
the proofs were more clear, that the seamen were the victims
of an illicit voyage, for which they never intended to contract.
and in which they had no voluntary participation.
Such then being the state of the facts, the law upon the subject is very clear. It is, that the seamen are entitled tQ full
wages from the time of their shipping on the voyage, to the
time of their return to the United States; deducting their advance wages, and whatever they have earned (if -ny) in any
intermediate employment. This is the general rule in courts
of admiralty in cases of this nature; where the libel seeks
nothing beyond compensation in the nature of wages. To this
extent the seamen a 'e entitled to a decree against the owners.
But they being insolvent, it becomes necessary to inquire
whether they have not also a remedy against the assignees holding the proceeds of the ship, cargo, and freight im their hands.
If the ship had been specifically restored, there is no doubt
that the seamen might have proceeded against it in the admiralty in a suit, in rem, for the whole compensation due to them.
They have by the maritime law an indisputable lien to this extent.. This lien is so sacred and indelible, that it has, on
more than one occasion, been expressively said, that it adheres to the last plank of the ship. 1 Peters's Adm. Rep.
note, 186, 195. 2 Dodson's Rep. 13. The Neptune, 1
Hagg. Adm. Rep. 227, 239.
And, in our opinion, there is no difference between the case
of a restitution in specie of the ship itself, and a restitutipn in
value. The lien reattaches to the thing and to whatever is substituted for it. This is no peculiar principle of the admiralty.
It is found incorporated into.the doctrines of courts of common law and equity. The owner and the lien holder,. whose
claims have beer. wrongfully displaced, may follow the proceeds wherever they can distinctly trace them. In respect,

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[Sheppard and others vs. Taylor and o1hers.]

therefore, to the proceeds of the ship, we have no difficulty in
affirming that the lien in this case attache§ to them.
In respect to the freight, there is more room for argument.
That there is an intimate connexion between the freight and
the wages; that the right to the one is generally, though not
universally) dependent upon the other; is doctrinefamiliar to
all those who are conversant with maritime law: and has given
rise to .the quaint expression, that freight is the mother of
wages. Indeed, freight being the earningi of the ship in the
course of the voyage, it is the natural fund out of which the
wages are contemplated to be paid; for though the ship is bound
by the lien of wages, the freight is relied on as the fund to discharge it, and is also relied on by the master to discharge his
personal responsibility. We think, then, that this relation between the freight and wages does,'by the principles of themaritime law, create a claim or privilege in favour of the seamen, to proceed against it under the circumstances of the
present case.
Here, the owner of the ship is also owner of the cargo.
There baA been an award allowing the assignees freight, as a'
distinct item; and the owners are insolvent. If the master of
the ship were living, he would have a direct lien upon the
freight for his disbursements, and liability for wages; and
through him the seamen would have the means of asserting a
claim on it. We can peiceive no principle then, why, in the.
present case, the seamen may not justly assert a claim on the
freight; if the proceeds of the.ship are exhausted, without satisfying the amount of their wages. No authority has been produced against it; and we think it justly deducible from the
general doctrines of the maritime law on this subject.
It has been argued that the admiralty has no jurisdiction in
this case; but we are of opinion that the objection is unfounded.
Over the subject of seamen's wages, the admiralty has an undisputed jurisdiction, in rem, as well as in personam; and
wherever the lien for the wages exists and attaches upon proceeds, it is the familiar practice of that court to exert its juris-"
diction over them, by way of monition to the parties holding
the proceeds. This,is familiarly known in the cases of prize,
and bottomry, and salvage; and isequally applicable to the case
of wages.

SUPREME COURT.
[Sheppard and others vs. Taylor and others.]

In respect to the claim of the assignees to hold the proceeds
for their exclusive use,,as bona fide purchasers;, we think it
cannot be maintained in point of law. In respect to the ship
and its proceeds, they stand in no better situation than the original owners. They take the title, cum onere. The lien will
follow theship, and its proceeds, into whosever hands they may
come by title or purchase from the owner. In respect to the
freight, the same consideration does not necessarily apply. But
here the assignees (though there is no dodbt that they are bona'
fide holders) have taken their assignments as mere securities for
antecedent debts; and had either actual or constructive notice of
the claims of the seamen, when they received their conveyances.
There was not only the lispendens to aflect them with constructive notice; but the very circumstance of the derivation of their
title from the owners was sufficient to put them upon inquiry.
It was indispensable to enable them to make an available
'claim before the commissioners. So that in both views they
are unprotected, as against the libellants.
This view of the matter disposes of the principal questions
necessary for the decision of the cause; as we are of opinion
that the whole proceeds of the ship and- freight, in tLe hands'
of the assignees, are liable to the payment of the seamen's
wages. We think there is no claim whatsoever upon the proceeds of the cargo; as that is not in any manner hypothecated,
or subjected to the claim for wages.
It has been supposed, at the argument, that there is some repugnancy in the petition of the seamen, in asserting a claim
for wages on the ground that the voyage was illicit; rand in
asserting a claim against the proceeds in the hands of the
assignees, upon the ground that the voyage was lawful, and
therefore the award of compensation to the owners was rightful. But upon a just consideration of the matter, no such repugnancy exists. The allegation on the part of the seamen is,
that they shipped on one voyage, which was lawful, and that
they were carried on another voyage, for which they did not
ship; and in which the ship was seized, and they were imprisoned for being engaged in an illicit trade. Now the voyage
in respect to them might be vholly tortious and illicit, because it was not within the scope of their contract; and they
may have been thereby subjected to all the consequences of an

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[Sheppard and others rs. Taylor and others.]

Illicit trade, although, as between the owners and th Spanish
authorities, the voyage may have been specially permitted as
an exception to the general colonial prohibitions, or at least may
not have been disapproved of in the particular instance. If the
king of Spain had a right to make the seizure, and pursue it
to condemnation; yet he might, under all the circumstances,
deem it just or expedient, as between the owners and himself,
to order restitution; and when such restitution was so made,
as between himself and them, the voyage might be deemed no
longer subject to'the imputation of illegality. If the order of
restitution was not complied with, it coustituted a good claim
against Spain; and consequently a good claim under the Florida treaty.
The award of the commissioners is conclusive on this
subject; but it concludes no more than its own correctness.
.Suppose the ship, after a seizure and conddrmnation by the
local Spanish authorities, had, upon appeal, been skecifically
restored by the king 9 f Spain; iher6 is no pretence to say
that-she might not have been proceeded against in the ddmiralty, for the full compensation of the seamen. Their right to
such compensation, in such a case, would depend, not upon the
fact w'.:ether there were tn illegal service or not; but upon the
fact whether there had been an unjustifiable deviation from the
voyage contracted for; and there is 'no legal distinction, as has
been already stated, between proceeding against the ship and
against the proceeds restored in yalue.
In respect to the claim of interest made by 'the libellants,
we are of opinion that under the peculiar circumstances of this
case, none ought to be allowed upon their wages; except for
the period of time which has elapsed since the petition was
filqd against the assignees and owners on the 1st of December
.1825. The previous delay was, as it seems to us, either a
voluntary delay, assented to by all parties; or else, under circumstances of so imuch doubt as to the nature and extent of the
claim, as ought to preclude any claim for interest. -"The
assignees having had the funds in their hands since that period, must be presumed to have made. interest on them; and
therefore, fhere is no hardship ii considering them liable to
pay interest to the seamen.
The cause not having been heard U'lfon -the merits, either in
VoCL. V.-4 P

SUPREME COURT.
[Sheppard and others vs. Taylor and others.],

the district or eircuit court, it is impossible for this court to
ascertain the precise amount to which the libellants are respectively entitled; without a reference to a commissioner to
aseeftin and report the amount, upon the principles already
stated. It 'will be necessary, therefore, to remand the cause
to the circuit court for this purpose; and it is to be understood,
in order to avoid any further delays, that the commissioner is to
proceed With all reasonable despatch; and is to report to the
court the amount due to each seaman as soon as he shall ascertain the same: so that each may have a separate decree (as in
libels of- this sort he well may), for his own share, without
waiting for any final-decree upon the claims of the others.
Where the exact time of the return of any seaman cannot
be ascertained, the commissioner will make an average estimate, as near as the facts will enable him to do so. In case of
the death of any seaman, who is a libellant, his administrator
is to -be brought before the court before any final decree is entered upon his claim.
A special order will be drawn up by the court, to be sent to
the circuit court for its direction upon these points; and the*
decree of the circuit court is reversed, and the cause remanded accordingly.

This cause.came. on to be heard on .the transcript of the
record from the circuit court of 'the United States, for the
district-of Maryland, and was argued by counsel; on consideration whereof, it is ordered, adjudged, and decreed by the
court, that .the decree of the circuit court affirming the decree
of the district court dismissing the libels and petition, in this
cause be, andthe same is hereby reversed: and this court, proceeding to- render such decree as the circuit court ought to
have rendered; it is further ordered, adjudged and decreed,
that the libellants are entitled to full wages according to the
terms of their original shipping articles or contract, from the
time of their shipping until their return and arrival in the
United States, after the seizure of the said ship Warren and
cargo, in the manner in the proceedingsmentioned; deducting
therefrom any advaree wages paid to them, and any wages
earned by theem in any employment in the intermediate period;

JADJUARY TERM 1831.
[Sheppard and others vs. Taylor and others.]

and that a decree be entered against the Owners of the said
ship in the said proceedings mentioned, for the amount of such
wages, as soon as the same shall be ascertained in the manner
hereinafter stated, with interest thereon, from the 1st day of
December 1825.

And it is further ordered, adjudged and decreed, that a
decree be rendered: against the other respondents in this cause
for the ppyment of the same wages when so asceitained, with
interest .as aforesaid- out of the funds and proceeds (but not
exceeding the funds, and proceeds) of the said ship Warren,
and freight received by them under the assignments and the
award of the commissioners urnder the treaty with Spain in
the said proceedings mentioned: to wit: out of the sum of
twenty-five thousand dollars awarded for the said ship; and
the sum of thirteen thousand eight hundred and sixty dollars
awarded for the freight thereof; according to the proportions
thereof by them respectively received as aforesaid: and that
interest at the rate of six per cent per annum, be paid by them
and considered as a part of the said funds and proceeds, from
the time when the petition and libel against them was"filed:
to wit: from the ist day of December 1S25, until the time
when a final decree isand shall be inade in the premises by
the circuit couf.; or until'the same runds and proceeds shall
by order of the circuit court be broughtinto the registry of the
court.
And it is further ordered, and adjudged and decreed, that
this cause be remanded to the circuit court with the following
directions.
1. To refer it to the bommissioner to ascertain, from the
evidence, and proceedings,.and other proper evidence; the
amount due to each of the libellants, for wages and interest
thereon; upon the principles stated in this decree. And that
'hebe required, forthwith, and as soon as may be, to proceed
upon this duty, and to report to the circuit court the amount
due to each of the libellants separately, as soob as h shall
have ascertained the same; sO that a separate and several decree may be entered therefor to each libellant respectively.
2. In cases where the exact time of the return of any of the
libellants cannot be ascertained; the.commissioner is to make

SUPREME COURT.
[Sheppard and others -s.Taylor and others.]

an average estimate of the time, as near asthe facts will enable
him to do so, and to report accordingly.
S. In cases where any of the libellants have died during the
pendency of the proceedings in this suit, no final decree is to
be entered in respect to such libellant, until his personal representatives shall become party to the suit.

Mr Taney, of counsel for the appellees in this cause, filed the
following suggestipns in writing:
"The supreme court having announced their intention to
send a special direction to the circuit court, stating the principles on which this case i&to be finally settled; and the case on
the part of the assignees, who are appellees, having been prepared merely with a view to obtain the decision of this court
an the points which have been argued and decided; they pray
that they may be allowed to offer further proof, on the following points, either in this court or the circuit cou.rL 1. The
expenses incurred by the owners in prosecuting 'this claim in
Spain, in order to procure the order of restoration. 2. The
expenses.of the assignees in prosecuting the claim- before the
3omnmissioners under the Florida treaty. 3. The amount of
the compensation to which the assignees are entitled for their
services, as general agents for those interested in the fund. 4.
The said appellees beg leave -also to be permitted to offer in
evidence, either in this court or in the circuit court, the records
of the proceedings against them in the said court, sitting as a
court of. chancery, in relation to the fund now in question;
in which said proceedihgs the money received by them, under
the award of the commissioners under the Florida treaty, was
by order of the -said circuit court, paid into qourt by the aforesaid assignees, and by the decree of the said court, distributed
among-certain clakimants. 5. The said appellees also pray to
be permitted to offer in.evidence, the record of the proceedingb in the chancery court of Maryland, in relation to a part of
'the said fund; so that; in case tt~ere should be a conflict of thejurisdiction, they may not be made liable to pay the amount
due into both courts."
The counsel.for the appellee, on these suggestions, moved
the court to rescind and annul the decree entered in this cause;
and for leave -to reargue the same.

JANUARY TERM 183i.
[Sheppard and others vs. Taylor and others.]

This motion was opposed by the counsel for the appellants; and an argument in writing, for and against the motion,
was submitted.
Afterwards the court made the following order:
And now, upon another and subsequent day of said January
terfi, upon hearing the written motion made in behalf of the
assignees, who are respondents in the said cause, and the arguments thereon, by the parties; it is further ordered, adjudged,
and decreed by this court; that the said assignees shall be allowed, in taking an account of the funds in their hands, to
deduct therefrom a portion, pro rata, of the disbursements and
expenses which have been actually incurred by them in prosecuting their claim before the commissioners, under the Florida treaty, in the proceedings mentioned; and also shall be
allowed to deduct therefrom two and one half per cent commission, as a compensation for their services, in and, about
the prosecution thereof as aforesaid; and for this purpose they
shall be allowed to produce new proofs before the said circuit
court, and any commissioner appointed by the said court
to take an account in the premises. But the parties (respondents) shall not be at liberty to adduce any~proof of, or be allowed to deduct from said funds any expenses, or disbursements, or charges, incurred by the owners ofthe said ship Warren, in Spain, or otherwise; in order, to procure the royal
order of restoration in the said proceedings mentioned. And
it is further ordered, adjudged, and decreed, that. the said assignees shall be at liberty to offer in evidence the proceedings
in the said chancery suits, in the-said written motion, mentioned in the said circuit court, and before the commissioner
aforesaid; reserving to the said circuit court, and commissioner
respectively, the full right a.nd liberty to judge whether the
same suits, or either of them, are properly admissible, or cdmpetent as evidence, in any matter before the said court, or
commissioner, under the farther proceedings in this cause, to
be had in the said circuit court.
Mr Justice BALD-wN dissented from the order in relation to
the proceedings in the circuit court, and the allowance of acommission to the defendants.

