JANUARY TERM 1831.

FRANCIS HENDFRSON AND WIFE,PLAINTIFFS In ERROR vs.

IRA GRmFyv, D F- NDANT IN E ROR.
The supreme court of the state of South Carolina having decided that the act of
the legislature of that state of 1744, relative to the commencement within two
years of actions of ejectment after-nonsuit, discontinuance, &c., is a part of
the limitation act of 1812, and that a suit commenced within the time prescrib.
ed, arrests the limitation; and this being the decision of the highest judicial
tribunal on the construction of a state law relating to titles and real property,
must be regarded by this court as the rule to bind its judgment.
That court having decided on the construction of a will, according to their view
of the rules of the common law in that state, as a rule of property, this decision
comes within the principle adopted by this court in Jackson vs. Chew, 12
Wheat. 153,167, that such decisions are entitled to the same respect as those
which are given on the construction of local statutes.
When an estate was devised to A. and B. in trust for C. and her heirs, the estate,
by the settled rules of the *courts of law and equity in South Carolina, as applied to the statute of uses of 27 Henry viii. ch,10,in force in that state, passed
at once to the object of the trust, as soon as the will took effect, by the death
of the-testator. The interposition of the names ofA. and B. had no other-legal
operation than to make them the conduits through whom the estate was to
pass, and they could not sustain an ejectment for the land. C., the grandchild
of the tesfator, is a purchaser under the will, deriving all her rights from the will
of the testator, and obtaining no title from A and'B; and A and B were as much
strangers to the estate, as if their names were not to be found in the. will.
The case contemplated in the law of 1744, by which a plaintiff or any other
person claiming under one who had brought an ejectment for land, which suit
had failed by verdict and judgment against him, or by nonsuit or discontinuance, &c. is empowered to commence his action for the recovery of the said
lands de novo, is clearly a case where the right of the plaintiff in the first
suit
passes to the plaintiff in the second; where it mustdepend upon some interest
or right of action which has become vested in him by purchase or descent,
from the person claiming the land in the former suit.
It would be quite a new principle in the law of ejectment and limitations, that
the intention to-assert the right was equivalent to its being actually done. It
is settled law, that an entry on land by one having the right, has the same effect
in arresting the pogress of the limitation as aauit; but it cannot be sustained
as a legal proposition, that an entry by one having no right is of any avail.
Wheie the court ordered the costs to be paid of a former ejectment brought by the
plaintiffs in the names of other persons, but for their use, before the-plaintiff
could prosecute a second suit in his own name for the same land, thi was not
a judicial decision that the right of' the plaintiffs in the first suit was he same
with that of the plaintiffs in the second suit. It was perfectly consistent with
the justice of the case, that when the plaintiffs sued the same defendant in
their own name for the same land, that they should reimburse him for the past
costs to which they had subjected him, before they should be permitted to proceed further. Rules of this kind are granted by the court to meet the justice
an4 exigences of cases as they occur:, not depending solely on the interest

SUPREME COURT
[Henderson and Wife vs. Griffin.]
which those who are subjected to such rules may have in the subject mattet
of suits which they bring and prosecute in the names of otbers but on a variety
of circumstances, which in the exercise of a sound discretion, may fumish .1
proper ground for their interference.

ERROR to the circuit court of-the United States, for the
district of South Carolina.
This was an action of. trespass instituted in the circuit court
to try titles, according to the forms prescribed by the local
law of South Carolina; by which this action is substituted for
an ejectment.
The plaintiffs proved a good title to a tract of land in Abbeville district, South Carolina, under the will of Henry Laurens, who devised the land in question to Dr and Mrs Ramsay and their heirs, in trust for the use and behoof of France
Eleanor Laurens (now the wife of Francis Henderson), during
her life, &c. The jury found a verdict for the plaintiffs for a
part of the said land, with damages. But the defendant having set up a claim under the statute of limitations, the plaintiffs, in reply, showed, from the records of.the state court;lt
this action was commenced the 29th of May 1823; and on the
,21st of November 1.823, a rule was made and entered by the
said court against the plaintiffs, in these words: "Franci,
Henderson and Wife v8. John Carey, and the Same vs. Othr
Defendants, to the number of forty, including Ira Grifli
On reading the affidavit of Henry Gray, it is ordered that the
plaintiffs show cause on Monday morning, why all proceedings
in these cases should not be stayed until the costs of the actions
prosecuted in the names of the heirs of David Ramsay, by the
same plaintiffs, in the state court, against the same defendants,
be paid." On the return of this rule, counsel were heard for
and against it; and on the 20th of April 1824, the court ordered'that upon a taxed bill of costs in the state court being
made out, the same be forthwith paid by the plaintiffs.
The plaintiffs in the circuit court, by their counseli showed
on the trial, that the suit in the state court, prosecuted in the
name of the heirs of David Ramsay, against the defendant,
was regularly discontinued in that court on the 23d of Octoher 1822, and they were compelled to pay the costs of that
sut before they could proceed, with the present.' And the
plaintiffs' counsel contended that the titld was not barred by the

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[Henderson and Wife vs. Griffin.]

act of limitations when the suit in the name of the heirs of
Ramsay was commenced; and the act did not run against theplaintiffs since that time, inasmuch as the present suit ought
to be joined and connected with the said former suit in the
state court. But the court, admitting that the plaintiffs' title
was not barred at the commencement of the first suit, instructed
the jury that the present suit could not be connected with the
former, and the jury found a verdict accordingly. To which
instruction and finding, the plaintiffs' counsel excepted, and
piosecuted this writ of error.
The counsel for the plaintiffs in errorclaimed to reverse the
judgment in the circuit court because the suit in the state
court, in the name of the heirs of Ramsay, trustees for the
plaintiffs, ought torhave been conne.ted with the present.
action; being for the same" land, under the same -title, and by
the showing of the same defendant upon the records of the court,
prosecuted by the same plaintiffs, in the name of their trustees,
The case was argued by Mr Wirt and Mr M'Duffle, for the
plaintiffs in error; and by Mr Warren R. Davis, for the defendant.
For the plaintiffs, it was contended; that the suit in the state
court, and that which was subsequently instituted in the circuit court, being substantially between the same parties and:
for the saihe tract of land, was fully within the provision of
the act of assembly of South Carolina, which saved the parties
to such a suit from the effect of the limitation.
The nineteenth section of the act of 1744 declares, that
if in an action of ejeetment there shall be a nonsuit oi discontinuance, or letting fall of the action, it shall not b'e conclusive; and the party may institute another suit within two
years, and thus have the benefit of the time in' which the first
suit was instituted.
Thq object of the first suit wai to maintain the title of the
cestui que trusts, and the names of the heirs of Mr Ramhsay
were used for no purposes of their own, but only with the,
sameobject as that in the present uit. They weie parties to
that suit in form only; essentially Mr and Mrs Henderson
were the plaintiffs. The defendant, by the first suit, had notice of the plaintiffs' titlei thus they were within the words as
VOL. V.-IJ

SUPREME COURT.
[Henderson and Wife vs. Griffin.]

well as the spirit of the exception in the law of South Carolina.
2 M'Cord's Rep. 252. 2 Brevard's Statutes of South Carolina, 21, 24.
The order on the plaintiffs to pay the costs of the suit in the
state court showed that there was, in the opinion of the court,
a connection between the suits. One was deemed a continuation of the other. Cited, Tidd's Practice, 479, 480. 3 Bos.
& Pull. 22. 2 Esp. 75, 493. 1 Strange, 1192. S Cranch,
462.
Mr Davis, for the defendant, insisted; that the parties to the
two suits were different. The legal title, asserted in the suit
in the state court, was claimed to be in the plaintiffs in that
suft; and in the suit now before the court, other parties sought
to maintain their legal title. The, provisions of the law of
South Carolina applied only to cases between the same partie's, and who claimed, in the second suit, the title set up by
them in the first suit.
Mr Justice BALDWIN delivered the opinion of the Court.
The action in tle court below-was brought to try title to a
tract of land in Abbeville district, -claimed by the plaintiffs,
under the will of Henry Laurens; -and by the defendant, in
virtue of a possession of five years, which, by the limitation
law of South Carolina, gives a good title.
On the trial of the cause it appeared that Henry Laurens,
being seised in fee of the premises in controversy, devised the
same to his daughter, Mrs'Ramsay, and to Dr Ramsay, "to
hold the same to them and their heirs in trust for the use
and behoof of his grand-daughter, Frances Eleanor Laurens,
wife of the plaintiff, during her life, &c.'?
Onthe 23d of October 1822, the heirs of David Ramsay,
claiming by the will aforesaid, brdoight theii action against
the defenddnt in the staie court of South Carolina, to recover
-the land claimed by him, which was part of a 1iger tract of
land,\devised to Mrs Henderson by the will of IvIr Laurens.
The supreme court, on argument, decided that the legal estate
was'in those for whose use it was devised, and that the action
,could not be sustained in the name of the heirs of Ramsay.
Ramsay and others, Trustees vs. Marsh, 2 M'Cord, 252.

JANUARY TERM 131.

155

[Henderson and Wife vs. Griffin.]

'Whereupon the suit was discontinued on the 23d of October
1822. At the commencement of that suit five years had not
expired from the time of the defendant's entry on the land;
but they had expired when the present action was brought, on
the 29th of May 1823: so that the only question arising in
this actjo is, whether the two suits can b6 so connected that
the prcent can relate back to the former one, and thus bring
it by legal intendment within the five years. The' circuit court
being of opinion that the two suits could not be connected, a
verdict and judgment passed for the defendant. And this ig
the only error assigned.
Thb plaintiffs in error rest their case on the following clause
of an act of asserihbly of 'South Carolina, passed in 1744.
2 Brevards Digest, 24. "And in case verdict and judgment
shall pass against the plaintiff in such action, or that he suffers
a nonsuit or discontinuance,, or any otherwise lets fall the
zame, such verdict or judgment, nonsuit or discontinuance, or
other letting fall the action or suit aforesaid, shall not be conclusive and definitive on the part of Isuch plaintiff; but at any
time within two years the said plaintiff or any other person or'
persons claiming by, from and under him, shall' have right,
and is hereby empowered to commence his action'for the recovery of the said lands and tenements de 2ovo, and prosecute
the same in the manner, and with the expedition herein before
directed."
The supreme court of that state have decided that this law
is considered as a part of the limitation act of 1712, and that
a suit'commenced within the time prescribed arrests the limitation; Edson vs. Davis, 1 M'C6rd, 555, 556: and this being.
a decision'of their highest judicial tribunal on the construction"
of a state law relating-to 'titles and real property, it must he
adopted by us as the rule to guide our judgment; and this
brings the merits of this case to this single question, whether
the plaintiffs claim by, from or under David Ramsay'6 heirs.
The opinion of the court'in the case of Kennedy vs. Marsh
was an able and deliberate one; it was a 'judicial construction
of the will of Mr Laurens, according to their view of the rules
of the commpn law in that state as a rule of property, and
comes within the principle adopted by thii court in Jackson
vs. Chew, 12 Wheat. Rep. 153, 167, that such decisions are

SUPREME COURT
[Henderson and Wife vs. Griffin.]

entitled to the same respect as those which are given on the
construction of local statutes. By so considering it and adopting it as a rule by which to decide this case, it follows conclusively, that if there was no such estate in the heirs of Dr
Ramsay as would authorise them to sustain an ejectment under
this will in their own names; the trust in the will was one
clearly executed in Mrs Henderson. By the settled rules of
courts, both of law and equity, as applied to the statute of
uses of 27 Henry 8th, ch. 10, in force in South Carolina,
there was, according to the principle of the decision of the
state court, nothing executory in the trust. Mr or Mrs Ramsay were to do no act before both the legal and beneficial interest vested in the devisee in trust. The estate never vested
in them for a moment, but passed directly to the objects of the
trust as soon as the will took effect by the death of the testatorThe interposition of the names of Mr and Mrs Ramsey, had
no other legal operation than to make them the conduits
through whom the estate was to pass. The application of the
statute of Henry VIII. to a will, gives it the effect of a deed of
bargain and sale to uses: they are only modes of passing title.
Having no legal operation to vest the legal estate in the names
used as the conduits or instruments of conveyance, the effect
of.either would be the same, if the grant or devise were made
directly to the purposes and uses declared, transferring both
the title and possession. "The statute conveys the possession
to the use, and transfers the use into possession, thereby
making the cestui qui use complete owner of the lands and
tenements, as well at law as in equity. The possession thus
transferred is -ot a mere seisin or possession in law, but an
actual seisin and possession in fact; not a mere title to enter
upon the land, but an actual estate. 2 M'Cord, 254.
This decided opinion of the highest court of South Carolina
renders it unnecessary for this court to express their own opinion on this will. Thus construed, neither Mr or Mrs Ramsay ever had, and their heirs never could have, any right or
estate in the premises so devised by Mr Laurens, in law or
equity: no right of entry, possession, or ultimate enjoyment.
They could- not take the 'rents and profits, as the entire estate
of the devisor vested in the devisee; they could therefore sustain no ejectment, which.must be founded on a right of poss-

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[Henderson and Wife vs. Griff.]

ession. Mrs Henderson is a purchaser directly under the
will of her grandfather, deriving all her rights from him.
There being. not a spark of right in the Ramsays, she could
by no possibility claim by, from or under them. There was
no privity of estate between them. The Ramsays formed no.
link in the chain of title from the person last seised to the
plaintiff. They were as much strangers to the estate in law,
as if their names were not to be found in the will; and there
could be in no principle of law any connection between the
present and the former suit. The case contemplated in the
law of 1744 is clearly one where the right of the plaintiff in
the first suit passes to the plaintiff in the second, where it
must depend-upon some interest or right of action, which has
become vested itihim by purchase or descent from the person
claiming the land in the former suit.
These are the views which inevitably result from the local
laws, expounded by the highest court in the state; in accordance with which, the right of Mrs Henderson "was as perfedt on the death of Mr Laurens as it could be afterwards.
She might have supported her ejectment against Griffin at the
time when the heirs of Ramsay brought theirs: and this is not
the case provided for by the law; which in our opinion applies
only to the case of a suit brought to enforce a right derived
from the first plaintiff. To give the law any other interpretation would be to establish in South Carolina the principle, that
an action biought by a person having no right, title, or interest
in land in the actual possession of a person claiming it fir himself, would arrest the act of limitation, and prevent its running
on the right of a stranger to the suit, It would be doing violence to the law to give it this meaning.
The plaintiffs" counsel seem to consider this as a case where
the first ejectment was brought by a trustee, and the second
by a cestui qui trust. But this is not such an one. If the
construction given to the will is to be considered as the law of
the case, the will of Mr Laurens did not sever his interest in
'the estate devised to his grand-daughter; the legal was not
separated from the equitable estate; but the whole passed unbroken by the will. So that the relation of trustee and cestui
qui trust never subsisted. The utmost extent of the argument drawn from this alleged analogy in fav6ur of. the plain

SUPREME COURT.
[Henderson and Wife vs. Griffin.]

tiff would be, that the heirs of Ramsay brought the first suit
in assertion of the title of Mr Laurens, but for the want of
privity, they could not bring it to bear 'on the defendant in
their names. It would be quite a new principle in the law of
ejectment and limitation, that the intention to assert the right
was equivalent to its being actually done.
It is settled law that an entry on the land by one having the
right, has the same effect in arresting the progress of the limitation as a suit; but it cannot be sustained as a legal proposition,
that an. entry by one having no right is'of any avail. If the
use or trust was executory; if the legal title had remained in the
Ramsays as trustees, until they had done some act to vest it in
the devisee as the cestui qui trust; there would be great force
in the reasoning of the plaintiffs' counsel. But here there is
no estate devised to Mr and Mrs Ramsay in trust. The statute, according to.the local law of-South Carolina, operates to
make the devise directly to Mrs Henderson.
The only remaining point made by the plaintiffs, is that which
arises froim the follow-ng rule made by the circuit court in this
cause, on, the 21st of November 1823. "On reading the
affidavit of Henry Gray, it is ordered that the plaintiffs show
cailse on Monday morning, why all proceedings in these cases
should not be stayed, until the costs of the action prosecuted
in the names of the heirs of David Ramsay, by the same
plaintiffs in the state court against the same defendants, be
paid." In pursuance of which rule the plaintiffs paid the costs
in the action referred to.
Assuming the fact stated in the rule to be true, that the
plaintiffs brought these suits in the name of David Ramsay's
heirs, it shows no more than that it was a case which by the
rules and practice of all courts authorised the order made by
the circuit court. Costs had accrued to the defendant by a suit
brought and prosecuted by the plaintiffs in this suit, in the
name of those who had no right to the land. It was perfectly
consistent with the justice of the case, that when these plaintiffs sued the same defendant in their own 'iame, for the same
laind, they should reimburse him for the past costs to which
they had subjected him before they should be permitted to proceed further. Rules of this kind are granted by courts to meet
the justice and exigences of cases as they occur, npt depend-

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[Henderson and Wife vs. Gr'ffn.]

ing solely on the interest which those who are subjected to
such.rules may have in the subject matter of suits which -they
bring and prosecute in the names of others; but on a variety
of circumstances which in the exercise of a sound discretion
may furnish a proper ground for their interference. A rule
on A. to pay the costs of.a suit.in the name of B. is no judicial
decision that he had any interest in the subject, or that it was
identical with one afterw-rds brought by A. in his own name
for the same property.. It is the exercise or a summary power
to compel what under the circumstances of the particular case
the court consider to be justice to a party in defending himself
against an unfounded claim. The case before the circuit court
was a proper one for the exercise of their discretionary powers, but their rule can have no possible bearing on the question in issue between the parties in the action.
It is therefore the opinion of thd court that there is no error
in the record; the judgment of the circuit court is affirmed,
with costs.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the circuit court of the United States for the district of South Carolina, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is the opinionaof this court that there
is no error in the judgment of the said circuit court; whereupon
it is considered, ordered and adjudged, that the judgment of
the said circuit court in this cause be, and the same is hereby
affirmed, with costs.

