OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Syllabus.

256 U. S.

Indeed, we ask, may not the State have other interests
besides the nullification of contracts, and may not its
police power be exerted for their consummation? If not,
why not? Under the decision just announced, if one
provision of the Constitution may be subordinated to
that power, may not other provisions be? At any rate,
the case commits the country to controversies, and their
decision, whether for the supremacy of the Constitution
or the supremacy of the power of the States, will depend
upon the uncertainty of judicial judgment.

MARCUS BROWN HOLDING COMPANY, INC.,
v. FELDMLAN ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 731.

Argued March 3, 7, 1921.-Decided April 18, 1921.

1. In view of the emergency declared by the legislature and found by
the District Court in this case and in like cases by the highest
court of the State, the New York laws enacted on September 27,
1920, to be in effect only until November 1, 1922, and regulating
rights and remedies in respect of real property occupied for dwelling
purposes in and about the City of New York, do not exceed the
police power of the State in requiring that only reasonable rents
shall be exacted or in denying the right to maintain actions to recover possession except upon the grounds that the occupant is
holding over and is objectionable, or that the owner of record, being
a natural person, seeks in good faith to recover for immediate oocupancy by himself and family as a dwelling, or that the action is
to recover possession for the purpose of demolishing the building with
intention to construct a new one. P. 198. Block v. Hirsh,ante, 135.
2. Held, that such regulation, as applied in favor of tenants holding over
under an expired lease in disregard of their covenant to surrender, did

MARCUS BROWN CO. v. FELDMAN.
170.

Statement of the Case.

not deprive the landlord of rights under the Fourteenth Amendment
or the Contract Clause of the Constitution, although the lease was
executed before and expired soon after the date of the legislation and
the landlord before the enactment had entered into a new lease with
a third party to go into effect shortly after the expiration of the
old one. P. 198.
3. The legislation does not unduly discriminate in not including cities
of less than a specified population, or buildings occupied otherwise
than for dwelling purposes, or buildings in course of construction.
P. 198.
4. Chapter 951 of the Iaws of New York of 1920, in so far as it makes
it a misdemeanor for the owner of an apartment house, or his agents,
etc., wilfully and intentionally to fail to furnish to the tenant of an
apartment such water, heat, light, elevator, telephone, or other
service as may be required by the terms of the lease and necessary to
the proper and customary use of the building, cannot be said to
impose involuntary service in violation of the Thirteenth Amendment. P. 199.
269 Fed, Rep. 306, affirmed.

TaIs was a direct appeal, under § 266 of the Judicial
Code, from a decree of the District Court in a suit brought
by the owner of an apartment house in New York City
for the purpose of ousting certain holding-over tenants
through a mandatory injunction, and of restraining the
District Attorney of the County of New York from taking
criminal proceedings against the plaintiff or its agents for
failure to furnish water, heat, light, elevator and other
service. The defendants relied on recent legislation of
New York, referred to in the opinion, 1 regulating the
I The following summary of the chief features of these New York
"housing acts" is added for the convenience of those who desire a
quick view.
C. 942, Laws of 1920, declares a public emergency to exist, and provides that summary proceedings shall not be maintainable to recover
the possession of'real property occupied for dwelling purposes in a city
of a population of one million or more or in a city in a county adjoining
such a city, except (1) where the person holding over is objectionable,
(2) where the owner of record, being a natural person, desires the

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Statement of the Case.

256 U. S.

rights and remedies of landlords and tenants in New York
City and vicinity,-which the plaintiff assailed as unconstitutional. The District Court sustained the legislation,
as"it applied to the case, and dismissed the bill. See 269
Fed. Rep. 306. The facts are given in the opinion,
post, 196.
premises for immediate and personal occupancy by himself and his
family as a dwelling, (3) where the owner intends to demolish the
premises and rebuild, or (4) where the building is to be taken over by a
co6perative ownership group. The landlord must show that the proceeding is one mentioned in the enumerated exceptions. The act is
inapplicable to buildings in course of construction or commenced after
the date of the act, and is to be in effect only until November 1, 1922.
C. 943, Laws of 1920, regulates stays on appeals from final orders in
summary dispossession proceedings.
C. 944, Laws of 199O, amending c. 136, Loa of 1920:
Section 1, after reciting the existence of a public emergency, declares
that it shall be a defense to an action for rent accruing under an agreement for premises in a city of the first class, etc., occupied for dwelling
purposes, that such rent is unjust and unreasonable and that the agreement under which the same is sought to be recovered is oppressive.
Section 2 requires the landlord, where the defense of unreasonable
rent is set up, to file a bill of particulars setting forth certain material
facts relevant to the issue of the reasonableness of the rent.
Section 3 provides that where it appears that the rent has been
increased over the rent as it existed one year prior to the time of the
agreement under which .the rent is sought to be recovered, such agreement shall be presumptively unjust, unreasonable and oppressive.
Section 4 permits the landlord to plead and prove in such action a
fair and reasonable rent and to recover judgment therefor, or to institute a separate action for the recovery thereof.
Section 5. Where, in an action for rent or rental value, the landlord
secures judgment by default, he shall, in addition to a money judgment,
be put in possession if payment be not promptly made.
Section 6. If, in such action for rent or rental value, the issue of
reasonableness of the amount demanded be raised by the defendant, he
must deposit in court a sum equal to the amount paid as last month's
rent or the rent reserved as the monthly rent in the agreement under
which he obtained possession, such deposit to be applied to the satisfan-

MARCUS BROWN CO. v. FELDMAN.
170.

Argument for Appellant.

Mr. Jowph A. &idma for appellant:
From the earliest colonial days to the present time
the people of the State of New York have refused to
delegate to its legislative bodies the power to interfere
tion of the judgment rendered, or otherwise disposed of as justice
requires. Where judgment is rendered for the plaintiff, if the same be
not fully satisfied from the deposit or otherwise within five days after
entry, the plaintiff shall be entitled to the premises and a warrant shall
issue commanding the sheriff, etc., to remove all persons therefrom.
Section 7 relates to the vacation of default judgments, to vacation
and amendment of proem, etc., and granting of new trials.
Section & "In case of an appeal by the defendant, the execution of
the judgment and warrant shall not be stayed unless the defendant
shall deposit with the clerk of the court the amount of the judgment and
thereafter monthly until the final determination of the appeal an
amount equal to one month's rental computed on the basis of the judgment. The clerk shall forthwith pay to the plaintiff the amount or
amounts so deposited."
Section 9 renders the act inapplicable to hotels containing 125 rooms
or more or to lodging or rooming houses occupied under a hiring of a
week or lm.
Section 10 exempts buildings in course of constrction or commenced
after the date of the act, The act is to be in force only until Novemher 1, 192L
C. 945, Law of I9fO, allows summary dispossesson proceedings for
nonpayment of rent, only where the petitioner alleges and proves that
.the rent is no greater than the amount for which the tenant was liable
for the month preceding the default, and provides for testing the reasonablenem of the rent in substantially the same manner as in an action for
rent, which is regulated by c. 944, upa In effect only until November 1, 1922.
C. 947, Laws of 1920, limits until November 1, 1922, the action of
ejectment, in substantially the same mannr as c. 942, aupra, limits

-ummary p7 eeed
C. 951, Law of 1920, amending § 2040 of the Penal law, makes it a
misdemeanor for any lessor or his agents, etc., wilfully or intentionally
to fail to furnish necessary hot or cold water, heat, light, power, elevator
service, telephme or any other service, required by the lease, or wilfully
and intentionally to interfere with the quiet enjoyment of the leased

premises by the occupant.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Argument for Appellant.

256 U. S.

with the recognized rights of private property. By the
first state constitution, of 1777, such parts of the common
law of England and the statutes of the Colony as were
not repugnant to the constitution were continued.
Fundamental and acknowledged principles were perpetuated. Gautier v. Ditmar, 204 N. Y. 20; Waters &
Co. v. Gerard, 189 N. Y. 302; Underwood v. Danie, 50
N. Y. 274.
Except in the abatement of public nuisances or to
avoid imminent danger, property cannot be taken or
destroyed by the legislature without compensation, and
it cannot be taken even with compensation, except for
public use. Constitution of New York, Art. I, §§ 1, 6;,
Fourteenth Amendment; Brevoort v. Grace, 53 N. Y.
245, 255; People v. Fisher, 190 N. Y. 468; Rockwell v.
Nearing, 35 N. Y. 302; Powers v. Bergen, 6 N. Y. 359;
Pumpelly v. Green Bay Co., 13 Wall. 166, 177, 178; Embury v. Conner, 3 N. Y. 511.
Due process may be tested by the common law as
settled in Eigland before the Declaration of Independence, Murray's Lessee v. Hoboken Land & Improvement Co., 18 How. 272, 276; Lowe v. Kansas, 163 U. S.
81; but our opponents are compelled to invoke decisions on laws authorized expressly by state constitutions or on powers incidental to the express powers of
Congress; to rely upon the rules of Ancient Rome governing the rights of serfs and tenants who were mere
slaves, upon the Irish Land Bills, and upon laws enacted here and by Parliament during the World War. They
might have gone further and asked us to adopt as laws
the decrees of Soviet Russia.
Wherever legislation has been sustained as necessary to secure the health, welfare, safety, and good order
of the community, it was prospective and not retroactive; it related to future conduct and did not affect past
transactions, except where enacted by express consti-

MARCUS BROWN CO. v. FELDMAN.
17OM

Argument for Appellant.

tutional authority. Btffalo v. Chadeayne, 134 N. Y.
163. Retroactive legislation destroys vested rights and
interests in property. The police power is a regulatory
power. Again, legislation under police power must be
for the general public and not for a particular class or
for the benefit of private individuals. Eubank v. Richmond, 226 U. S. 137.
The State may not, except in the case of monopolies
and public utilities, compel the sale of merchandise or
license the use of private property, even for compensation. Terminal Tazicab Co. v. Disti of Columbia, 241
U. S. 252, 256; Producers Tranvortation Co. v. Railroad
Commission, 251 U. S. 228, 252; Chesapeake & Potomac
Tdephone Co. v. Manning, 186 U. S. 238, 247.
We are told that what shall be regulated depends entirely upon the peculiar economic and social conditions
of the times. If once the door shall be opened to that

doctrine, all significance of the constitutional guaranty
will be lost. "Illegitimate and unconstitutional practices get their first footing... by silent approaches
and slight deviations from legal modes of procedure."
Boyd v. United States, 116 U. S. 616, 635.
It is true that'shelter is as much a necessity as bread,
and it is contended that it is an obligation of the State
to see that its citizenry does not lack such necessities.
But it is not contended that the State should provide
them gratis for physically and mentally able citizens.
Should not the State afford gainful employment to those
who lack such necessities? Or is the trader or manufacturer to be compelled by law to do so, or the banking institutions to furnish the needed money?
If in the opinion of the legislature the alleged emergency justified the exercise of the power of eminent
domain, it should have authorized the taking of the
property for public use in accordance with the state
constitution. Stell v. Mayor, 95 N. J. L. 38.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Argument for Appellant.

256 U. S.

The sponsors of the legislation urge "emergency "
to silence the laws while citizens are being deprived of
their property rights. They demand that constitutional
bulwarks created for the protection of liberty and property be destroyed because of an alleged "public necessity," for alleged humanitarian causes. Similar distres-

sing conditions and alleged "emergencies"

were urged

before this court (Edwards v. Kearzey, 96 U. S. 595, 604)
in support of the Homestead Exemption Laws of North
Carolina to uphold their constitutionality in so far as
they affected obligations contracted before they came
into effect. Mr. Justice Swayne, who delivered the
majority opinion, went into the history of the country
preceding the adoption of the Constitution, in order to
show that the very purpose of the constitutional prohibitions was to prevent legislatures from meddling with
private business and from tampering with obligations
of contract in times of stress.
It often happens that a contract becomes impossible

of performance because of a law subsequently enacted.
There is a consequent impairment of performance,
Louisvill & Nashvl7 R. R. Co. v. Motley, 219 U. S. 467,
482, 484, but not of obligation. The statutes now under
consideration impair the obligation, and not merely the
performance of the obligation. The legislature left the
tenant free to perform his obligation, if he so desired,
but at the same time it discharged him from that obligation for the sole purpose of preventing its enforcement by the lessor. The law operates directly upon the
contract,-destroys it completely without prohibiting
its performance. The impairment of the obligation is
not the indirect result of police regulation of the conduct
of particular business. These laws were not enacted for
the regulation of the business of the landlord.
The legislature assumed authority to discharge the
obligation of the tenant to surrender possession on the

MARCUS BROWN CO. v. FELDMAN.

170.

Arummt for Appeant.

expiration of the term specified in the lease; to make a
trespass a lawful possession; to extend all of the lessor's
obligations while the holdover desires to continue in possession; to prevent the lessor from. performing his
obligation under another lease entered into before the enactment of the law, which by its terms was to become

operative after the date of this enactment.

In exercising

this power the legislature has not imposed upon the person holding over the obligation to pay the rent reserved

in his lease, the stipulated rental value as fixed by the
parties is disregarded. The power to fix the rental value
is delegae to a court or jury. Such innovations are
clearly repugnant to the Constitution. Wilmington &
Weldon R. R. Co. v. King, 91 U. S 3, 5; Effinger v. Kenney
115 U. S. 566, 571.
The rule has always been that, as a State cannot enact
a law acting directly upon the terms of the contract, so
also it cannot pass a law professing to regulate the rem-

edy whmn, in effect, it impairs the obligation of the contract. Gndy v. Ewing, 3 How. 707; Barnitzv. Beerly, 163
U. S. 118; Nelson v. S Martin's Parish, 111 U. S. 716;
McGahey v. Virgii, 135 U. S. 662; Kring v. Misouri,
107 U. S. 221;'Flkherv. Peck, 6 Cranch, 87,138; People
v. Bakhdelor, 53N. Y. 128, 140; Brevoort v. Grace, 53 N.
Y. 245; Adair v. United tares, 208 U. S. 161, 173.
Upon the failure of the tenants to surrender possession on September 30, 1920, the plaintiff had at least five
remedies, namely: (1) To treat the tenancy as one at
will or sufferance and terminate it by giving the notice
required by statute.(unnecessary at common law, Rec-

how v.

anck, 43 N. Y. 448); (2) to treat the lease

as renewed for another year (Hater v. Mulle, 159 N.
Y. 28); (3) to reenter and by use of reasonable force
eject the occupants; (4) to maintain the common-law
action of ejeetment; or (5) to sue in trespass for damages.
The law then in force assured to the owner the right to

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Argument for Appellant.

256 U. S.

possession on the expiration of the term, and imposed
upon the tenant the obligation to surrender. That right
could not be taken or the obligation destroyed without
due process of law. Muhlker v. New York & Harlem
R. R. Co., 197 U. S. 544, 570; Barson v. Mulligan, 198
N. Y. 23, 25; Adams v. (ohoes, 127 N. Y. 175, 182. For
a breach of the covenant to surrender the lessor was entitled to recover damages. Vernon v. Brown, 40 App.
Div. 204. All of these rights were secured to the plaintiff and its grantors under the common law in force at
the time of the adoption of the State and Federal Constitutions. They were annexed to the contract at the
time it was made. Bronson v. Kinzie, 1 How. 311; McCracken v. Hayward, 2 How. 608; Walker v. Whitehead,
16 Wall. 314. Forfeitures of such rights in property
cannot be adjudged by legislative act, and confiscations
without a judicial hearing after due notice are void. Yet
this is exactly what these innovations undertake to do.
The person applying for his remedies is not permitted
to come into court. Gilman v. Tucker, 128 N. Y. 190,
205; Missouri Pacific Ry. Co. v. Humes, 115 U. S. 512, 521.
Statutes affecting remedies which do not
impair the
obligation of contract may be constitutionally valid,
provided a reasonable time be allowed before the change
or repeal of remedy takes effect. Cooley, Const. Lim.,
6th ed., p. 431; Wheeler v. Jackson, 137 U. S. 245; Antoni v. Greenhow, 107 U. S. 769. Usury has been regarded
with abhorrence from the earliest times, and yet any law
declaring a transaction illegal because of usury, which
was legal when made, would be constitutionally void.
Sturges v. Crowninshidd, 4 Wheat. 122, 206; Van Rensselaer v. Snyder, 13 N. Y. 299; Conkey v. Hart, 14 N. Y,
22; Von Hoffman v. Quincy, 4 Wall. 535, 552. These
laws clog not only the right to recover possession, but
also the right to recover the rent voluntarily agreed
upon by the contracts in force when they were enacted.

MARCUS BROWN CO. v. FELDMAN.
170.

Argument for Appellant.

"The general right to make a contract in relation to
his business is part of the liberty of the individual protected by the Fourteenth Amendment." Lochner v.
New York, 198 U. S. 45, 53. In all such cases as German
Aiiance Inaumrane Co. v. Lewis, 233 U. S. 389; Mobe
v. Yuille, 3 Ala. N. S. 140; Louisana Bread Case, 12 La.
Ann. 432, the control of the property was left entirely
to the owner engaged in the particular business regulated.
In the Lewm Case the court points out that the business
of insurance is essentially different from ordinary commercial transactions, and, according to the sense of the
world from the earliest times,-certainly the sense of
the modern world,-is of the greatest public concern.
It was not a private business, but "clothed with a public interest," and therefore subject "to be controlled by
the public for the common good."
If the leasing of dwelling houses and apartments were
a business charged with a public use, the legislation
would be nevertheless unconstitutional, because it inhibits the owner from withdrawing his property from the
alleged public use. Munn v. IUinois, 94 U. S. 113, 126,
133; Budd v. New York, 143 U. S. 517, 536. It compels him to continue the business with persons with whom
he does not desire to deal. The owner's intention cannot possibly be determined, as to whether he desires to
continue the business of renting dwelling houses, until
the possession of his property is restored to him.
These laws are also unconstitutional because they violate the guaranty of equal protection of the laws in disregard of the Fourteenth Amendment. Connolly v.
Union Sewer Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 540, 558, 559. The
right to maintain summary proceedings and actions of
ejectment is still reserved to that class of landowners
who may desire to destroy their buildings for the purpose
of erecting new buildings, to those desiring the premises
for personal occupancy and to owners of office, factory

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Argument for Appellant.

256 U. S.

or other buildings occupied for business purposes and
to owners of hotel property; to every owner of property
in cities of the third class and in some instances to
the owners of property in cities of the second class; to
owners of buildings now in course of construction or
which may hereafter be erected. The housing conditions and congestion prevail all over the country and in
every city in the State of New York. Therefore, there
was no reasonable ground for the classification.
Assuming that the State has the power, directly or
indirictly, to subsidize new buildings either by cash
payments or by remission of taxes, it has no power to
discriminate between the owners of existing buildings
and the owners of buildings to be erected, in respect of
their compensation for the use of their property. Merchants' & Manufadurer' Bank v. Pennsylvania, 167 U.S.
461, 463; Cotting v. Kansas City Stock Yards Co., 183
U. S. 79, 112.

The legislation creates involuntary servitude, prohibited by the Thirteenth 'Amendment. The legislature, by c. 951, has practically made landlords persons
subject to compulsory service, who must serve "sttutory tenants" in possession of their property, against
their will and consent. ClyaU v. United State, 197 U.
S. 207, 216. This legislation in effect declares a suspension for a period of two years of the landowner's civil
rights guaranteed to him by the State and Federal Constitutions, which secure to him the liberty to refuse business relations with anyone with whom he does not desire to contract. Similar legislation has been condemned. Adair v. United States, 208 U. S. 161; Bailey
v. Alabama, 211 U. S. 452; People v. Marcus, 185 N. Y.
257.
No emergency can justify an exercise of legislative
power to compel one man to render involuntary service
to another. Ex parte Milligan, 4 Wall. 2, 18.

MARCUS BROWN CO. v. FELDMAN.
170.

Argument for Attorney General of New York.

Mr. DavidL. Podel, with whom Mr. Samud R. Gerstein,
Mr. Martin C. Amorge, Mr. Benjamin S. Kirsh and Mr. J.
J. Podel were on the brief, for the tenant appellees.
Mr. Robert B. Johnastone and Mr. John Caidwel Myers
filed a brief on behalf of Edward Swan, as District Attoney of the County of New York, appellee:
The District Court had no jurisdiction to entertain
the suit as it did not appear that the matter in controversy exceeded three thousand dollars.
The complainant has a plain, adequate and complete
remedy at law.

Chapter 951, Laws of New York 1920, is a valid emercise of the State's police power. Prie v. Minois, 238
U. S. 446, 451; Sigh v. Kirkwood, 237 U. S. 52, 59;
Chimp & Alton R. R. Co. v. 74ribarger, 238 U. 8 67;
Manigaul v. Sping, 199 U. S. 473, 480; Tenement
House Departmnt v. Moesclen, 179 N. Y. 325.
Mr. Wllimn D. uW , with whom Mr. Julius Henry
Cohen, Mr. lmfr G. Sam
and Mr. Bernard Her&hkopf wer on the brie, for the Attorney General of the
State of New York, by speial leave of court:
The extence of an emergency in the City of New
York and the evidence of the shortage of housing accommodations and the dangr to be apprehended from widespread evictions are exhibited by the official reports,
such as the m
of the Governor to the legislature,
the reports of his Reconstruction Commission, the re-

ports of the Joint Legislative Committee on Housing,
the report of the Mayor's Committee on Rent Profiteering in the City of New York, and the bulletins of the
Health Deartment of the City of New York.
ture which was the subject of more exhaustive investigation, and the reports above referred to are, therefore,

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Argument for Attorney General of New York.

2.56 U. S.

entitled to even greater weight than is usually accorded such official findings and documents. Wilson v.
New, 243 U. S. 332; McLean v. Arkansas, 211 U. S. 539,
547, 548; People v. Charles Schweinler Press, 214 N. Y.
395, 402: Cockcroft v. Mitchell, 187 App. Div. 189, 193.
In view of the facts thus revealed it cannot be reasonably doubted that a shortage of housing facilities still
exists and it can hardly be seriously suggested that the
legislature was acting arbitrarily in fixing November 1,
1922, as the probable duration of the emergency or crisis.
Longer periods have been adopted in some jurisdictions.
If the prediction does not square with the facts as they
develop in the future, the courts can grant relief, even
if the legislature should neglect to do so. Castle v. Mason,
91 Oh. St. 296, 303. See also Sullivan v. Shreteport, 251
U. S. 169, 171; Hamilton v. Kentucky Distilleries Co.,
251 U. S. 146,162; Johnson v. Gearlds, 234 U. S. 422, 446;
Perin v. United States, 232 U. S. 478, 486; Municipal
Gas Co. v. Public Sertice Coimission, 225 N. Y. 89, 95,
97. It may not, however, be presumed that when that
time comes the legislature will not itself repeal these
laws.
In determining the constitutionality of statutes passed
in the exercise of the police power, the courts have attached much weight to analogous legislation in other
countries enacted to remedy similar conditions or to meet
similar governmental problems. Muller v. Oregon, 208
U. S. 412, 419, 420; People v. Charles Schweinler Press,
214 N. Y. 395, 403. The conditions in New York City
were the same as those which existed in all congested
centers throughout the world as a result of the World
War. Like causes had produced like effects.
Neither the contract, clause nor the due process clause
of the Constitution abridges the power or duty of the
legislature to enact appropriate and necessary laws in
order to protect the health, safety, order, morals, or gen-

MARCUS BROWN CO. v. FELDNMAN.
170.

Argument for Attorney General of New YorL

eral welfare of the public. Hadacheck v. Los Angeles,
239 U. S. 394, 409,410; Nechamew v. Warden, 144 N. Y.
529,535; Louivil & Nashvffle R. R. Co. v. Mottley, 219
U. S. 467; Producers TransportationCo. v. Ralroad Cornmison, 251 U. S. 228, 232; Union Dry Goods Co. v. Georgia Public ervice Corporation, 248 U. S. 372, 375.
Laws which forbade the erection of certain types of
buildings, which prohibited certain kinds of businesses,
fixed certain prices, abolished certain valuable remedies,
like distress, etc., have all been uniformly upheld as valid
exercises of the police power notwithstanding the fact
that they seriously impaired or wholly wiped out preexisting private contracts. The only inquiry has been
whether the statute in question was a proper exercise of
the power of government, that is, whether in any aspect
it could be regarded as passed in the public interest and
as reasonably calculated to subserve that interest, due
allowance being made for the broad discretion vested in
the legislative body in these respects, and whether the
means were reasonably appropriate and adapted to a
legitimate end. If it were possible for individuals to
estop due exercises of governmental power by private
contats, private agreements could impair the legislative
power in practically all classes of cases.
Nor is the question to be decided put upon any different basis by urging that the statutes interfere with
the liberty of contract as distinguished from the impairment of contract. That right is and may also be qualified
and limited in the public interest. Chicago, Burlington
& Quincy R. R. Co. v. Mduire, 219 U. S. 549, 567;
McLean v. Arkanss, 211 U. S. 539, 545; Rail & River
Coal Co. v. Ohio Indutrial Commission, 236 U. S. 338, 349.
Equally immaterial is it that the statutes interfere
with property rights. That, too, may be lawfully done
by the legislature in the reasonable exercise of its police
power. It constitutes but a taking by due process of

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Argument for Attorney General of New York. 256 U. S.
law if it be really a taking at all.--Citing many cases, including: Chicago, Burlington & Quincy Ry. Co. v. Drainage Commissioners, 200 U. S. 561, 593; Nechamcu8 v.
Warden, 144 N. Y. 529, 535; In re Wilshire, 103 Fed.
Rep. 620, 622; Noble State Bank v. Haskell, 219 U. S. 104,
111; People v. Griswold, 213 N. Y. 92, 96, 97; Armour
& Co. v. North Dakota, 240 U. S.510, 513; Chicago, Burlington & Quincy R. R. Co. v. McGuire, 219 U. S. 549, 569.
Here the State requires only such a concession as it has
been repeatedly held by this court government is constitutionally entitled to require, namely, a concession appropriate to "exceptional times and places in which the
very foundations of public welfare could not be laid
without requiring concession3 from individuals to each
other upon due compensation which under other circumstances would be left wholly to voluntary consent."
Strickley v. Highland Boy Gold Mining Co., 200 U. S.
527, 531. See also Clark v. Nash, 198 U. S. 361; Noble
State Bank v. Haskell, 219 U. S.104, 110.
There is no force in the contention that these laws
are solely in the private, as contrasted with the public,
interest because they redound to the benefit of private
parties, namely, tenants. Use by the general public is
inadequate as a universal test. Stricky v. Highland
Boy Gold Mining Co., 200 U. S. 527, 531. Witness the
usury laws, laws regulating railroad rates, tenement
house laws, and the employers' liability acts.
Courts are not at liberty to circumscribe the police
power by impracticable points of view or by unreasonably pressing the alleged "absolute" rights of property.
The police power exists to meet the practical problems
which arise from day to day; and the science of government consists in adjusting relative rights and duties in
order "to promote the general welfare." Nobl State
Bank v.-Haskell, supra.
These laws are not unreonable in laying the burden

MARCUS BROWN CO. v. FELDMAN.
170.

Argmmt for Attorney General of New York.

on the landlord of showing that the rent is reasonable,
or in preventing him from retaking possession oppressively, where he does not require it for his own use or
to rebuild, and where the tenant is not objectionable.
In every fair and reasonable situation he may have his
property; but where he desires to evict without reason,
the law prohibits his doing so during the shortage and
crisis, provided the tenant pays the reasonable rental
value of the premises.
Ifthese enactments appear in any aspect extraordinary, it is only because the crisis is unprecedented; and
it was long ago declared that (Legal Tender Cases, 12
Wall. 457, 540) "It is not to be denied that acts may be
adapted to the exrcise of lawful power, and appropriate
to it, in seasons of exigency, which would be inappropriate at other times. " See American Land Co. v. Zeiss,
219 U. E 47, 60; Wilson v. New, 243 U. S. 332, 347, 348;
Bowditch v. Bostmon, 101 U. S. 16, 18, 19; Edmonson vFaruson, 11 Miisouri, 344, 346; Breitenbach v. Bush,
44 Pa. St. 313, 318, 319; Hoflman v. Charlesown Five Cents
Sadings Bank, 231 Mssachusetts, 324; Soldiers & Sailors Civil Relied Act, 40 Stat. 444, §§ 100, 103, 201, 302;
Wed & Co. v. Lockwood, 266 Fed. Rep. 785, 788; c. 80,
§ 2, 41 Stat. 297. From time immemorial, a feeble tenantry have been protected from oppreasion during times
of emergency or misfortune.
One of the inherent and fundamental purposes of
all civilized government is to prevent extortion and
oppresion and to safeguard the public; and in the light
of that principle all constitutions must, of course, be read.
It was early realized that there were many callings and
busiemes to which the public necessarily had to resort
and in which, therdore, they had an interest. If these
were to be left undisturbed by the law, it was patent
that they would in numeroim instances have practically
unlimited power to oppress the public. Accordingly,

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Argument for Attorney General of New York. 256 U. S.

government was called upon to protect the public from
extortion, and both then and now callings and property
charged with a public interest have been regulated by
the State. What shall be so regulated depends entirely
upon the peculiar economic and social conditions of the
times. See c. I, Wyman's "Public Service Corporations."
It was not necessary that persons thus subjected to
regulation should have a monopoly-though that element,
if it existed, served to emphasize their capacity to do
public harm at will; or that they should enjoy a special
privilege or franchise-though that might serve to make
clearer their duty to the public. Munn v. Illinois, 94 U.
S. 113; Budd v. New York, 143 U. S. 517; Brass v. SOeser, 153 U. S. 391; Geaan Aiamce Insurance Co. v.
Lewis, 233 U. S. 389, 411.
The public interest which warrants the regulation
of such ordinary, private, competitive and unfran-

chised businesses as grain elevating (Muns v. /Minow, and Budd v. New York, supra), fire insurance

(German Alliance Ins. Co. v. Lewis, supra), laundrying
(Oklahoma Operating Co. v. Love, 252 U. S. 331,
337-8) bread baking (Mobile v. Yuile, 3 Ala& N. S.
140; Louisiana Bread Case, 12 La. Ann. 432), etc., is

incomparably smaller than that which underlies the
exertion of the legislative power over the business of

renting apartments and houses for dwelling purposes in
densely populated cities like New York The vital principles of government, it is submitted, have not become
static or fallen into decadence, but, on the contrary, are
still progressive and competent to deal practically with
extortion, oppression and emergency wherever and whenever they appear.
From the earliest times the British Government has
never hesitated either actually to fix prices when other

means proved unavailing, or to require, in general terms,
that vendors of necessaries shall sell them at reasonable

MARCUS BROWN CO. v. FELDMAN.
170L

Agument for Attorney Genal of New York.

prices and moderate gains. Wages, herrings, clothes,
poultry, candles, hats, beer, wine, butter, cheese, bread
and numerous other commodities were thus from time

to time regulated as neessity required. That the power
to enact such laws passed to the several States has always been recognized. And it has never been held that
such regulation in time of shortage and public emergency,
in order to prevent widespread public oppression and
suffering, unlawfully deprived an individual of his property, merely because it prevented him from reaping
the gains of an extortionate and oppressive use of his
own. The vivifying principle was always in the
Sic u ee Luo ut alienum mn edwas.
No me would now question the right of a State to
fix the rate of interest; and it is no answer to assert that
the usury laws furnish no analogy since they are in reality
a relaation of a prohibition of the common law against
charging any interest at all. German Alince Inau
onc
Co. v. Lewi, 233 U. & 409.

The usury laws ae an illustration also of the right of
the legislature to conclude that in certain relations it

is in the great majority of cases imposible for the parties
to deal at arms' length and with unimpaired freedom of
will, and, consequently, of the right of the legislature in
such instances to refuse force and effect to contracts so
made or require them to be modified so as to conform to
justice and fairness. Hoddn v. Hardy, 169 U. S. 366, 397.
The legidature certainly has the power to regulate and
modify common-law and equitable defenses. Arizona
Employers' Liability Cases, 250 U. S. 400, 421; Van Dyke
v. Wood, 60 App. Div. 208, 212; 78th Stre & Broadway Co.
v. Rownbawn, 111 Mise. (N. Y.) 57t; American Coal
Mining Co. v. Special Coal & Food Comm., 268 Fed. Rep.
563. American courts are constantly studying English history and English statutes in order to determine

whether a particular exercise of legislative power is or

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Argument of Amici Curie.

256 U. S.

is not within the principle of due process of law, or is
or is not arbitrary and unduly oppressive. Numerous
and familiar instances will readily recur to the court.
See Murray'8 Lessee v. Hoboken Land & Improvement Co.,
18 How. 272, 276. In giving the preference to the tenant
in possession, the legislature merely legalized a longstanding social custom and restraint evidenced in the English, Irish, Scotch, Hebrew, Maryland and New York precedents, and thereby was enabled to protect its present
rew dents in their homes from competition by nonresidents.
The cassification made in the statutes is justified
by the character and extent of the evil aimed at, and
obvious differences in subject-matter.
Chapter 944 is not invalid because it does not specifically define what shall constitute an unreasonable rent
and an oppressive agreement therefor; nor are its other
provisions unfair or unreasonable.
Mr. Louis Marshall and Mr. Lewis M. Isaacs, by leave
of court, filed a brief as amici curia:
It is safe to say that never before in the history of our

country has legislation of so revolutionary a character
been undertaken.
Private property, devoted to purposes essentially private, is sought to be taken out of
the control of the owner and to be placed in the possession and occupancy of another on terms, not in accordance with the contract between them, but such as a court
or jury may fix. The legislature takes the property of
A and gives it to B for an indefinite period on terms which
A is unwilling to accept but which he is to be forced to
accept nwlens wens. If the tenant refuses to pay the
stipulated rent, or if he holds over after the expiration
of his term, the landlord cannot regain possession, because, by these acts, he has been stripped of the right
to maintain a p
action. Should he sue to recover the rent stipulated by the contract, he is met by

MARCUS BROWN CO. v. FELDMAN.
170.

AgWment of Amid Curia.

the defense that the terms of the contract are unjust and
unreasonable, and if the amount of the stipulated rent is
greater than the rent paid for the use of the premises a

year prior to the date of the agreement under which the
rent is sought to be recovered, he is confronted by a
statutory
*on that the rent sought to be recovered is unjust and oppressive. The burden of overcomig this prumption is imposed on him. In spite
of the fact that there has been an express agreement, in
contravention of the well-established rule that a contract
will not be implied where the parties have entered into
an express contract, he has the option of either going
empty out of court, should he in the opinion of an interested jury be unable to overcome this presumption, or
of being left to recover for use and occupation on a quantum merdt in ieu of the stipulated rent. He is compelled
either to submit to the determination of the tenant or
to incur the expense, the vicissitudes and the delay of
litigation in an effort to enforce his contract.
The statute prescribes no standards by which the justice and reasonablen
and freedom from oppression
which must be established in order to warrant a recovery under the laws, are to be determined.
That such standards are necessary in order that there
may be due process of law is illustrated by the decisions
in Intenzational Harnser Co. v. Kentucky, 234 U. S.
216; Colins v. Kentudky, 234 U. S. 634, and Amerin
Seeding Machi Co. v. Kentuky, 236 U. S. 660. See
also United Stais v. Cohen Grocery Co., 255 U. S. 81.
In the provision relating to a bill of particulars the
emential elements entering into the ascertainment of
rental value are omitted.
The legislature by these acts leaves the determination
of the complicated question of rental value at a time
when all prices and values of the necessaries of life have
risen, with the c4nsequent and universal irritation re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Argument of Amici Cur2e.

256 U. &

suiting therefrom, to a court or jury with respect to each
case as it may arise, without providing guide or compass
or defining a standard enforceable by the owner of the
property as well as by the tenant. If it should appear
that the agreed rental is less than it could be proven
that it legitimately might have been, the tenant can only
be required to pay the stipulated rental. If during the
term of the lease the prevailing rental value of the property should be enhanced, the tenant could not be required to pay more than he agreed to pay. The fact
that the lease runs for a term of years and that the vicissitudes incidental to our economic life may bring about
a change of conditions and of values, are necessary elements in price or rental -mlue. Yet, under this statute,
the landlord is to bear all risks and the tenant is to be
enabled at will to assert the obligation of the landlord's
covenant or to deny the validity of his own.
The provision that a mere increase in the rent of domised premises over the rent as it existed one year prior
to the agreement under which it is sought to be recovered, renders the contract presumptively unjust, unreasonable and oppresive, is arbitrary and unreasonable
and offends against the due process clause.
The practical effect of such a provision necessarily would
be to invalidate a lease which provided for an increased
rental unless the landlord could, on a trial before a jury,
overcome this presumption by proving a negative, namely,
that the agreement was not unjust, unreasonable and oppressive. That would necessitate proof in justification of
the terms of the contract, the giving of testimony as to
what would be a fair return upon the property which
was the subject of the lease. This in turn would give
rise to proof as to a multitude of elements affecting the
reasonableness of the rent. It might involve an issue
as to each element of value. It might call for the giving
of expert testimony by both sides; and the burden of

MARCUS BROWN CO. v. FELDMAN.
170.

Axwnnu

o Amid Curie-

prod would rest oi the -landlord. And yet the court
in a ca involving the regulation of rates of a common
carrier, (New York Ccnfrl . R. Co. v. Pubic Sfvtce Comminm, 215 N. Y. 241,) declared that the burden of proof
that an increase of rates was reasonable could not be
cast on the railroad company, even where the rates are

to be fixed by an impartial commiio .

If the legislature may say to the owner of a building
devoted to private purposes, that he shall not be permitted to enter into a contract for the leasing of his
property except on condition that the contract shall run
the gauntlet of the courts and juries and that the amount

that he shall be permitted to charge shall eventually be
fixed by a court or jury, then it is difficult to understand
why the legislature may not say to the farmer or to the

grocer that, irrespective of the contract price at which
he may sell to a customer milk, potatoes, wheat, or any

other of his products, the purchaser may contest the
of the price and be lited in his payment
to the sum that a court or jury may eventually determine
to be the just and reasonable price. There is not a businer concevable, however private it may be, that could
not with equal right be made dependent upon the action

of the leglatur
This statute deprives the landlord of his liberty of
contract and of his property without due process of law.

What is true of the taking of property is equally true
of the enjoyment of the incidents and attributes of property. In the case of real property, the rents, income and
profits derivable from its holding are such attributes.

,Lery, it has been frequently held, includes the right
to acquire property, and that means the right to make
and enforce-contraa in respect thereof.
Ther can be no doubt that the police power has long
eabted and that in recent years its scope has been somewhat extended. Nevertheless it is not superior, but sub-

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Argment of Amici Curim.

256 U. &

ject to the Constitution. This should not for a moment
be forgotten, if free government under our present system
is to continue. Matter of Jacobs, 98 N. Y. 98, 108; Slaughter-House Caws, 16 WalL 36, 87; Adair v. United Stales,
208 U. S. 161; People v. Marcus, 185 N. Y. 257; Coppage
v. Kansas, 236 U. S. 1.
We are met with the contention that the State has
the right to fix the charges to b made by the owner of
private property for its use, on the theory that the public welfare may be thereby promoted.
The plaintiff's property was not devoted to any public
use. The various apartments constituted dwellings that
were rented for private occupation to the several persons
whom the owner was willing to accept as tenants. The
general public had no concern with this property.
Innkeepers have from the earliest days been recognized
as engaged in a public business. On the other hand, a
boarding-house keeper is engaged in a private business;
is, therefore, under no obligation to serve the public; is
at liberty to choose his own guests, and to make special
arrangements with them. Except so far as regulations
relating to health and morals are concerned, he does not
come within the regulatory power of the legislature.
Grist mills, also, are devoted to a public purpose. Their
owners have enjoyed valuable privileges from the legis-

latures with respect to the erection of dams and the flowage of land.
So of the owners of bridges, ferries, and public grain
elevators and warehouses, electric light plantp, oil pipe
lines, and other similar public utilities. The distinction
between them and the owners of private property designed for private uses has been uniformly observed.
In German Alliance Insurance Co. v. Lewis, 233 U. S.
389, the business sought to be regulated was that of
fire insurance. That was shown to be a business that
had been regulated for many years in all parts of the

MARCUS BROWN CO. v. FELDMAN.

7O

ALmait o AMhi

country, carried on exclusively by corporations which
derived their existence from the sovereign. Theirs was
conceded to be a business affecting the public welfare.
There is nothing in Oklahoma Opfeaing Co. v. Love,
252 U. S. 331, that will support this legislation.

There

was not even an intimation that the corporation commission was constitutionally empowered to establish
rates for laundry work. The court decided that the
plaintiff was entitled to a temporary injunction restraining the enforcement of the penalties prescribed
by the statute which in deet prevented judicial review.
This court has just declared the Lever Act unconstitutomaL The decision rendered is the more noteworthy
because it was enacted by Congress in the exercise of
the war powers conferred by the Federal Constitution.
No such powers are conferred on the New York legislatre.
In Termnal Taicab Co. v. Disid of Columbia, 241
U. S. 252, 256, it was held that, as to that portion of the
busin of the corportion which consisted mainly in
furnishing automobiles from its central garage on orders
by telephone, the regulation was not authorized.
In Clark v. Nask, 198 U. 8. 361, there was no pretense
that property could be taken without compensation.
The sole question was as to whether the proposed taking
came within the power of eminent domain So of Sbtikv. Highland Boy Gd Mining Co., 200 U. 8. 527.
Sdunidinge v. Chicago,226 U. S. 578, merely involved
the question whether an ordinance, ensted under expres
legslative authority, fixing standard sizes of bread loaves,
was valid That was regarded merely as an exermse of
the police power intended to prevent deceit, and practically of the same character as that of fixing weights and
measures. Rai v. Van Deman & Lavis Co., 240 U. S.
342, which related to a special tax on trading stamps,

OCTOBER TEIM, 1920.
Argment of Amid Curim

256 U. a

proceeded on the theory that their use was akin to lotteries and gaming.
The limitation of the power of the legislature to regulate the compensation of employment agencies was fully
considered in Adams v. Tanner, 244 U. S. 590. See
Stell v. Mayor, 95 N. J. L. 38, concerning directly the

rights of landlords.
Collister v. Hayman, 183 N. Y. 250; Burnham v. FRnn,
189 N. Y. 180, Wooflcott v. Shubert, 217 N. Y. 212, and
People v. Newman, 109 Misc. (N. Y.) 622, held that a
theatre is not governed by the rules which relate to public utilities and that the owners cannot be controlled as to
their rates, nor be compelled to admit the public generally, nor be prevented from arbitrarily excluding any
person whom they may see fit to exclude.
Many other cases might be cited as illustrating the
proposition that statutes undertaking to fix the prices
to be charged by private persons for services rendered
or property sold cannot be sustained. Brazee v. Mih
,
241 U. S. 340; Adams v. Tanner, 244 U. S. 590; Hotter
Hardware Co. v. Boyle, 263 Fed Rep. 134;Fisher Co. v.
Woods, 187 N. Y. 90; Ez parte Ddey, 144 California, 234;
State v. FireCreekCoalCo., 33 W. Va. 188.
Some of our opponents have indulged at some length
in citations from historians, decisions and statutes dealing with conditions in European countries, as, e. g., in
Ireland and Scotland. They have also referred to alleged
re8ponsa of rabbis rendered in medieval times, in their
capacity as arbitrators. These passages from the history of
other countries, whose organic law differs fundamentally
from ours, have no application here, where our legislation is
necessarily governed by our written constitutions. Nor
are responsa rendered in the exercise of an ecclesiastical
as distinguished from a judical function by rabbis, who
were intent upon the avoidance of conflict among members of the synagogue, of the slightest moment. The

MARCUS BROWN CO. v. FELDMAN.
170.

Argument of Amid Qir

very fact that the Jews, in the days when these arbitraments took place, could not own real property of itself indicates how far afield these alleged precedents are
apt to lead one.
Nothing is cew under our jurisprudence than that
the legislature cannot carve out of existing estates, new
estates, in invitum. It cannot confer on a tenant an
equitable lien or charge against the owner's title, to take
effect on the expiration of the tenancy. That would be
confiscation, pure and simple. It would create the astounding doctrine, once a tenant, forever a tenant. What
becomes of vested rights under such a theory? What
becomes of property? The theory of a "tenant right"
such as that sought to be imported into our land tenures
by means of legislation has never gained a foothold here,
and is foreign to our institutions as it is opposed to our
constitutions. Iva v. South Buffalo Ry. Co., 201 N. Y.
271, 287.
Assumin& but not conceding, that the taking of private property for housing purposes may be permitted
for a public purpose, it can only be done upon making
just compensation and in the manner provided by the
Constitution.
The statute denies to the plaintiff the equal protection
of the laws. There was no reasonable ground for excluding hotela, lodging houses, new buildings and buildings used for commercial, manufacturing or other business purposes; or for not extending the regulations to
cities other than those included when like conditions
were conceded to exist.
The act imImir the obligations of another contract.
Prior to its pmage the plaintiff and prospective tenants
had entered into a lease at a fixed rental for a term of
two years beginning October 1st, 1920. On September
27, 1920, the legislature declared this lease presumptively
unjust, unreasonable and oppressive because it increased

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.

Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

the rent previously received by the plaintiff for these
premises, and permitted the lessees to interpose this
claim as a defense to any action that might be brought
for the rent stipulated in the lease.
That this tends to nullify the contract between the
parties and permits a court or jury to create a different
contract from that which the parties agreed upon is selfevident.
The fact that the act under review recites that it is
based on the existence of a public emergency does not
validate it, if its provisions are violative of the Constitution.
Not only do the statements contained in the report of
the Legislative Committee and in the message of the
Governor, relied upon in support of this legislation, fail
to justify it, but in most material respects they are contrary to the facts, and the theories therein propounded
if pursued would inevitably aggravate the dearth of
housing accommodations to which attention is directed.
MR. JusczE Hoy
court.

s delivered the opinion of the

This is a bill in equity brought by the Marcus Brown
Holding Company, the appellant, owner of a large apartment house in the City of New York, against the tenants
of an apartment in the house and the District Attorney of the County of New York. The tenants are holding over after their lease has expired, which it did on
September 30, 1920, claiming the right to do so under
cc. 942 and 947 of the laws of New York of 1920. The
object of the bill is to have these and other connected
laws declared unconstitutional. The District Attorney
is joined in order to prevent his enforcing by criminal
proceedings cc. 131 and 951 of the acts of the same year,
which make it a misdemeanor for the lessor or any agent

MARCUS BROWN CO. v. FELDMAN.
170.

Opinion of the Court.

or janitor intentionally to fail to furnish such water,
heat, light, elevator, telephone, or other service as may
be required by the terms of the lease and necessary to
the proper or customary use of the building. The case
was heard in the District Court by three judges upon
the bill, answer, affidavits and some public documents,
all of which may be summed up in a few words. The
bill alleges at length the rights given to a lessor by the
common law and statutes of New York before the enactment of the statutes relied upon by the tenants, a covenant by the latter to surrender possession at the termination of their lease, and due demand, and claims
protection under Article I,§ 10 and the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United States. An affidavit alleges that before the passage of the new statutes
another lease of the premises had been made, to go into
effect on October 1, 1920. The answer of the tenants
relies upon the new statutes and alleges a willingness
to pay a reasonable rent and any reasonable increase as
the same may be determined by a court of competent
jurisdiction. It also alleges that they made efforts to
obtain another suitable apartment but failed. The District Attorney moved to dismiss the bill. The judges
considered the case upon the merits, upheld the laws
and ordered the bill to be dismissed.
By the above mentioned cc. 942 and 947, a public emergency is declared to exist and it is provided by c. 947
that no action "shall be maintainable to recover possession of real property in a city of a population of one
million or more or in a city in a county adjoining such
city, occupied for dwelling purposes, except an action
to recover such possession upon the ground that the person is holding over and is objectionable, . . or an
action where the owner of record of the building, being
a natural person, seeks in good faith to recover possession of the same or a room or rooms therein for the im-

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

256 U. &

mediate and personal occupancy by himself and his family as a dwelling; or an action to recover premises for
the purpose of demolishing the same with the intention
of constructing a new building. . . ."
The earlier
c. 942 is similar with some further details. Both acts are
to be in effect only until November 1,1922. It is unnecessary to state the provisions of c. 944 for disputes as to
what is a reasonable rent. They are dealt with in the
decisions of the Court of Appeals cited below and in
Edgar A. Levy Leasing Co., Inc. v. Sieel, 230 N. Y.
634, by the same Court. In this as in the previous case
of Block v. Hirsh, ante, 135, we shall assume in accordance with the statutes, the finding of the Court below
and of the Court of Appeals of the State, in People ex ree.
Durham Realty Corporationv. La Fetra, 230 N. Y. 429, and
Guttag v. Shatzkin, 230 N. Y. 647, that the emergency
declared exists. Hebe Co. v. Shaw, 248 U. S. 297, 303.
Hairstonv. Danville & Western Ry. Co., 208 U. S. 598,607.
The chief objections to these acts have been dealt
with in Block v. Hirsh. In the present case more emphasis is laid upon the impairment of the obligation of the
contract of the lessees to surender possession and of the
new lease which was to have gone into effect upon October 1, last year. But contracts are made subject to this
exercise of the power of the State when otherwise justified, as we have held this to be. Manigaull v. Springs,
199 U. S. 473, 480. Louisville & Nashsle R. R. Co. v.
Mottley, 219 U. S. 467, 482. Chicago & Alton R. R. Co.
v. Tranbarger, 238 U. S. 67, 76, 77. Union Dry Goods
Co. v. Georgia Public Svice Corporation, 248 U. S. 372,
375. Producers Transportation Co. v. Railroad Commission of California, 251 U. S. 228, 232. It is said too that
the laws are discriminating, in respect of the cities affected and the character of the buildings, the laws not extending to buildings occupied for business purposes,
hotel property or buildings now in course of erection, &c.

MARCUS BROWN CO. v. FELDMAN.
170.

MCKZMA, J., WmT

Ch. J., and othem, dmntin&

But as the evil to be met was a very pressing want of shelter in certain crowded centers the classification was too
obviously justified to need explanation, beyond repeating what was said below as to new buildings, that
the unknown cost of completing them and the need to
encourage such structures sufficiently explain the last item
on the excepted list.
It is objected finally that c. 951, above stated, in so
far as it required active services to be rendered to the
tenants, is void on the rather singular pound that it infringes the Thirteenth Amendment. It is true that the
traditions of our law ae opposed to compelling a man

to perform strictly personal services against his will even
when he has contracted to render them. But the services in question although involving some activities are
so far from personal that they constitute the universal

and necsary incidents of modern apartment houses
They are analogous to -the services that in the old law
might issue out of or be attached to land. We perceive
no additional difficulties in this statute, if applicable as
assmned. The whole case was well discussed below and
we are of opinion that the decree should be affirmed.

Decree afimd
Mn. Jumwcz McKwi&, THE Cm
JusTicE, Mi.
JUwrcs VAN DzvAm,= and M. JusrcM McRzrowzs,

dissenting:
This case was submitted with Block v. Hinh, No. 640,
ante, 135.
Like that case it involves the right of a lessee of property-in this case an apartment in an apartment house
in New York City-to retain possession of it under a
law of New York after the expiration of the lease. This
case is an emphasis of the other, and the argument in
that applies to this It may be more directly applica-

OCTOBER TERPI, 1920.
McKmNA, J., Wmrw, Ch. J., and others, dissenting. 256 U. S.

ble; for in this case the police power of the State is the
especial invocation and the court's judgment is a concession to it, and, as we understand the opinion, in
broader and less hesitating declaration of the extent and
poteney of that power. "More emphasis," it is said,
"is laid upon the impairment of the obligation of the
contract" than in the Hirsh Case. In measurement of
this as a reliance, it is said, "But contracts are made
subject to this exercise of the power of the State when
otherwise justified, as we hae held this to be." The italics
are ours and we estimate them by the cases that are cited
in their explanation and support. We are not disposed
to a review of the cases. We leave them in reference, as
the opinion does, with the comment that our deduction
from them is not that of the opinion. There is not a line
in any of them that declares that the explicit and deftnite covenants of private individuals engaged in a private
and personal matter are subject to impairment by a
state law, and we submit, as we argued in the Hirsh
Case, that if the State have such power-if its power is
superior to Article I, § 10, and the Fourteenth Amendment, it is superior to every other limitation upon every
power expressed in the Constitution of the United States,
commits rights of property to a State's unrestrained
conceptions of its interests, and any question of themremedy against them-is left in such obscurity as to be
a denial of both. There is a concession of limitation but
no definition of it, and the reasoning of the opinion, as
we understand it, and its implications and its incident,
establish practically unlimited power.
We are not disposed to enlarge further upon the case
or attempt to reconcile the explicit declaration of the
Constitution against the power of the State to impair
the obligations of a contract or, under any pretense, to
disregard the declaration. It is safer, saner, and more
consonant with constitutional preeminence and its pur-

PRIVETr v. UNITED STATES.
170L

Syllabu.

poses to regard the declaration of the Constitution as
paramount, and not to weaken it by refined dialectics,
or bend it to some impulse or emergency "because of

some accident of immediate overwhelming interest which
appeals to the feeling, and distorts the judgment."
Nwore

&cSwin*e

Co. v. United Stale, 193 U. S. 197,

400.
We therdore dissent.

PRIVETT ET AL. v. UNITED STATES ET AL.
APFM&L FROM TMH CIRCUIT COURT OF AZpAPL FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 2K Argued March 18, 19U.-Dedded April 18, 1921.
1. A h
allotment of a half-blood Creek Indian, who died
intestate leaving surviving issue, a member of the tribe, born since
March 4, 1906, remains inalienable under § 9 of the Act of May 27,
1908, c. 199, 35 Stat. 312, duridg the lifetime of such issue, until
Apil 26, 1931, if the Secretary of the Interior has not removed the
ratriefim; and a deed made by the heirs in such circumstances is
void. P. 203.
2. A finding that a surviving son of a Creek allottee was born since
March 4, 1906, dd sustained by the evidence. P. 203.
3. In a suit to set aside deedsof an Indian allotment made by the heirs
of the allottee in contravention of a restriction on alienation imposed
by Congres, wherein the validity of the conveyances depended on
the date of the birth of a surviving minor Bon of the allottee, sdd
that the United States %as in no respect concluded by a finding of
the date and a judgment upholding the conveyances, in a prior suit
in the state court between the heirs and one claiming under the
conveyances, to which suit the United States was not a party. P. 203.
261 Fed. Rep. 351, affirmed

TmE case is stated in the opinion.

