OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

KANSAS CITY SOUTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY
ET AL. v. ROAD IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT
NUMBER 6 OF LITTLE RIVER COUNTY,
ARKANSAS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAB.
No. 205. Argued March 16, 17, 1921.-Decided June 6, 1921.
1. A judgment of a state supreme court sustaining a state tax law
over the objection that, as applied in the cae, it violates the Constitution, is reviewable by writ of error. P. 659.
2. Railroad property may not be burdened for local improvements
upon a basis so wholly different from that used for ascertaining the
contribution demanded of individual owners as necessarily to produce manifest inequality. P. 661.
3. An Arkansas statute authorizing local assesments for a road improvenent, held a denial of the equal protection of the laws, as applied in this case. P. 661.
139 Arkansas, 424, reversed. Certiorari denied.

to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Arkansas
which affirmed a judgment of a circuit court approving a
road improvement assessment on property of the plainiffs in error. The facts are stated in the opinion.
ERROR

Mr. Samud W. Moore and Mr. James B. McDonough,
with whom Mr. Frank H. Moore and Mr. A. F. Smith
were on the briefs, for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. John P. DuLaney, with whom Mr. A. D. DuLaney
was on the brief, for defendant in error.

MR. JUSTIcE McRyNIlows delivered the opinion of the
court.

Proceeding under Act No. 338, 1915 Session, Arkansas
Legislature, the County Court created and fixed the

KANS. CITY SO. RY. v. ROAD !MP. DIST. NO. 6. 659
658.

Opinion of the Court.

boundaries of "Road Improvement District No. 6 of
They include approximately
Little River County."
25,000 acres and within them there are 9.7 miles of main
track railroad owned and operated by plaintiffs in error,
Kansas City Southern Railway Company and Texarkana
& Fort Smith Railway Company, together with the corresponding right of way, covering 130 acres, and requisite
station buildings.
Little River County is distinctly argicultural, has an
area of 546 square miles, and 16,000 inhabitants. The
Improvement District was created for the purpose of
constructing 11.2 miles of gravel road through taxation
upon real property, defined by the statute as "land, improvements thereon, railroads, railroad rights-of-way
and improvements thereon, including public buildings,
sidetracks, etc., and tramroads."
A duly appointed Board assessed the benefits to plaintiffs in error's property on account of the proposed road at
$7,000.00 per mile of main track-67,900.00. They
divided the farming lands into five zones, determined
by distance from the highway, and assessed uniform benefits upon all within the same zone without regard to improvements or market value-in the first $12.00 per acre,
second $10.00, third $8.00, fourth $6.00, and fifth $4.00.
Town lots were likewise assesged without reference to value
or improvements at $10.00, $15.00, $20.00 and $25.00
each, according to location. A pipe line, telephone line,
and telegraph line were severally assessed at $2,500.00,
$300.00 and $300.00 per mile, without any designated basis.
Plaintiffs in error duly maintained that the assessment
upon their property was unequal, arbitrary, unreasonable,
and in violation of the due process and equal protection
clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment. The state courts
held to the contrary and in effect declared the statute providing for the Road Improvement District authorized the
action taken by the Board, and that so construed it was a

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

valid enactment. 139 Arkansas, 424. The validity of the
statute having been adequately challenged, the cause is
properly here upon writ of error, and the petition for
certiorari will be denied.
The settled general rule is that a state legislature "may
create taxing districts to meet the expense of local improvements and may fix the basis of taxation without
encountering the Fourteenth Amendment unless its action
is palpably arbitrary or a plain abuse." Gast Realty Co. v.
Schneider Granite Co., 240 U. S. 55; Houck v. Ldttle River
DrainageDistrict, 239 U. S. 254, 262. Ordinarily, the levy
may be upon lands specially benefited according to value,
position, area, or the front-foot rule. Frenchv. BarberAsphalt Co., 181 U. S. 324, 342; Ca.n FarmCo. v. Detroit, 181
U. S. 396,397; LouisviUe & Nashville R. R. Co. v. Barber
Asphalt Co., 197 U. S. 430; WithneU v. Ruecking Construction Co., 249-U. S. 63; Hancock v. City of Muskogee, 250
U. S. 454; Branson v. Bush, 251 U. S.182.
If, however, the statute providing for the tax is "of
such a character that there is no reasonable presumption
that substantial justice generally will be done, but the
probability is that the parties will be taxed disproportionately to each other and to the benefit conferred the law
cannot stand against the complaint of one so taxed in
fact." Gast Realty 0Co.
v. Schneider Granite Co., supra.
The statute under consideration prescribes no definite
standard for determining benefits from proposed improvements. The assessors made estimates as to farm lands
and town lots according to area and position and wholly
without regard to their value, improvements thereon, or
their present or prospective use. On the other hand, disregarding both area and position, they undertook to estimate benefits to the property of plaintiffs in error without
disclosing any basis therefor, but apparently according
to some vague speculation as to present worth-and possible
future increased receipts from freight and passengers

KANS. CITY SO. RY. v. ROAD IMP. DIST. NO. 6. 661
658.

Opinion of

the Court.

which would enhance its value, considered as a component
part of the system.
Obviously, the railroad companies have not been treated
like indiidual owners, and we think the discrimination
so palpable and arbitrary as to amount to a denial of the
equal protection of the law. Benefits from local improvements must be estimated upon contiguous property according to some standard which will probably produce
approximately correct general results. To say that 9.7
miles of railroad in a purely farming section, treated as an
aliquot part of the whole system, will receive benefits
amounting to $67,900.00 from the construction of 11.2
miles of gravel road seems wholly improbable, if not impossible. Classification, of course, is permissible, but
we can find no adequate reason for what has been attempted in the present case. Royster Guano Co. v. Virginia,253 U. S. 412, 415. It is doubtful whether any very
substantial appreciation in value of the railroad property
within the district will result from the improvements; and
very clearly it cannot be taxed upon some fanciful view
of future earnings and distributed values, while all other
property is assessed solely according to area and position.
Railroad property may not be burdened for local improvements upon a basis so wholly different from that used for
ascertaining the contribution demanded of individual
owners as necessarily to produce manifest inequality.
Equal protection of the law must be extended to all.
The judgment of the court below is reversed and the
cause remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent
with this opinion.

