OCTOBER TERM, 1920.

Argument for Petitioner.

256 U. S.

EX PARTE IN THE MATTER OF HUSSEIN LUTFI
BEY, MASTER OF THE GUL DJEMAL, PETITIONER.
MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE PETITION FOR A WRIT OF PROHIBITION AND A WRIT OF MANDAMUS.

No.

-,

OriginaL

Motion submitted February 28, 1921.-Decided
June 6, 1921.

1. The questions whether a ship of a foreign government, which it
uses and operates as a merchant vessel, is, within the waters of the
United States, immune from provss in admiralty suits to enforce
dcaims for wharfage and supplies, and whether such immunity
properly can be claimed for a ship of a government which has
severed and not resumed diplomatic relations with the United States,
are debatable questions. P. 618.
2. The granting or refusal of the writs of prohibition and mandamus
to restrain and correct alleged exc es of jurisdiction by the District Court in admiralty, is discretionary when the jurisdiction of
that court is debatable. P. 619.
Leave denied.

Timl facts are stated in the opinion, post, 618.
Mr. John M. Woolsey, Mr. Frank J. McConneU and
Mr. William A. Purrington, for petitioner:
There is not any other available remedy than that
now sought from this court.
The order sustaining the exceptions to the plea in abatement and overruling the plea is not a final order and,
hence, is not appealable to the Circuit Court of Appeals.
Montgomery v. Anderson, 21 How. 386; Cushing v. Laird,
107 U. S. 69; McLish v. Roff, 141 U. S. 661; Bender v.
Pennsylania Co., 148 U. S. 502; Hohorst v. HamburgAmerican Packet Co., 148 U. S. 262.
If it had been a final order it would not have been
directly appealable to this court under ยง 238, Jud. Code,

EX PARTE HUSSEIN LUTFI BEY.
616.

Argument for Petitioner.

because it does not involve the question of the jurisdiction
of the court as a federal court, because the court has
juris iction of the subject-matter of the suit.
The only question is the jurisdiction of any court over
the steamship Gul Djemal in her present status, and that
is a question of liability and not jurisdiction. The Attualita, 238 Fed. Rep. 909.
It is only questions of the jurisdiction of the court
as a federal court that are directly appealable under 1 238.
Louisville Trust Co. v. Knott, 191 U. S. 225, 230; United
States v. Congress Construction Co., 222 U. S. 199; Male
v. Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe Ry. Co., 240 U. S. 97.
It is not possible to obtain a writ of prohibition from
the Circuit Court of Appeals. Muir v. Chatfwd, 255
Fed. Rep. 24.
It is not possible to try a case of this kind and at the
same time maintain the immunity which it is necessary
to maintain in order to preserve the rights of the sovereign.
A case cannot be tried without submitting to the jurisdiction of the court. The filing of a bond would at once
waive immunity. The Luigi, 230 Fed. Rep. 493. It is
only a sovereign or his representative that can claim
sovereign immunity. The Crimdon, 35 T. L. R. 81, 82.
The relief herein prayed for is, therefore, appropriate
and is apparently the only relief procurable.
There is ample precedent for the granting of a writ of
prohibition in a case of this kind. Smith v. Whine, 116
U. S. 167, 173; In re Rice, 155 U. S. 396, 402; In re New
York & Porto Rico S. S. Co., 155 U. S. 523, 531.
The first reported instance of a writ of prohibition
in this court is, we believe, the case of United States v.
Peters, 3 Dall. 121 (1795), in which the question raised
was a question of immunity of an arrested corvette, The
Cassius, belonging to the French Republic and in which
the writ of prohibition was granted. To the same effect
in principle are: In re Baiz, 135 U. S. 403; In re Cooper,

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

138 U. S. 404; In re Cooper, 143 U. S. 472; Ex parte
Indiana Transportation Co., 244 U. S. 456; Ex parte
Easton, 95 U. S. 68, 77.
MR. JuSTICE VAN DEvAwrzR

delivered the opinion of

the court.
This is a motion for leave to file a petition for a writ of
prohibition and a writ of mandamus. The circumstances
leading up to the motion can be shortly stated. The
Steamship Gu Djemal, now in the Port of New York, was
arrested and is being held under process issued against
her in several suits in admiralty in the District Court for
that district. She is a merchant ship and came from
Constantinople to New York under a time carterparty;
for a purely commercial purpose, shortly before the suits
were brought. The claims sought to be enforced in them
amount to $80,585 and are for wharfage, fuel, supplies
and other necessaries furnished to the ship at Gibraltar in
the course of her voyage and at New York after her
arrival. Her master, Hussein Lutfi Bey, appearing
specially in the suits, applied to have her released from
arrest, and in support of his application alleged that she
was owned, manned and operated by the Turkish or
Ottoman Government, that she therefore was not subject
to the court's process and that he, as the representative
and agent of that government, was her true and lawful
bailee and as such entitled to her immediate possession.
The court declined to order her release, and in the petition
now proffered the master seeks a writ of prohibition forbidding further proceedings in the suits and a writ of
mandamus commanding that the order denying his
application be vacated and another entered releasing
the ship. The questions involved are, first, whether the
ship of a foreign government which it uses and operates
as a merchant vessel is, when within the waters of the
United States, immune from process in suits such as have

TEXAS CO. v. HOGARTH SHIPPING CO.
616.

619

Syllabus.

been described; and, secondly, whether such immunity
properly can be claimed in respect of the ship of a government which has severed and not resumed diplomatic relations with the United States. Both questions are important and also new. Their proper solution is not plain
but debatable. This is frankly recognized in the brief
supporting the motion. Even in admiralty cases a writ
of prohibition goes as a matter of right only where the
absence of jurisdiction is plain. Where the jurisdiction
is debatable the granting or refusal of the writ is discretionary. Ex parte Muir, 254 U. S. 522. It-is nbt plain
that there is an absence of jurisdiction here, for the question is an open one and of uncertain solution. On application to the State Department, it declined to ask the
Attorney General to present to the District Court a
suggestion avowing that the ship belonged to the Turkish
or Ottoman Government and was immune from seizure.
We regard the situation as one in which to refuse the writ
would be a proper exercise of discretion. There are

stronger reasons against granting a writ of mandamus.
Leave to file petition denied.

THE TEXAS COMPANY v. HOGARTH SHIPPING
COMPANY, LTD., OWNER OF THE STEAMSHIP
BARON OGILVY, ET AL.
CERTIORAI TO THE CRCUrr COUR OF APPEALS FOR TBE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 555. Argued January 26, 27, 1921.-Decided June 6, 1921.
1. A voyage charterparty for a vessel to be named, with no provision
for a substitution, under which a vessel has been selected, is to be
treated thenceforth as a contract for that particular vessel P. 627.

