McLAREN v. FLEISCHER.

465.

Syllabus.

That the court would restore the papers to plaintiff
if they were still in the thief's possession is not questioned.
That it has power to control the disposition of these
stolen papers, although they have passed into the possession of the law officer, is also not questioned. But
it is said that no provision of the Constitution requires
their surrender and that the papers could have been subpoenaed. This may be true. Still I cannot believe that
action of a public official is necessarily lawful, because
it does not violate constitutional prohibitions and because the same result might have been attained by other
and proper means. At the foundation of our civil liberty
lies the principle which denies to government officials
an exceptional position before the law and which subjects
them to the same rules of conduct that axe commands
to the citizen. And in the development of our liberty
insistence upon procedural regularity has been a large
factor. Respect for law will not be advanced by resort,
in its enforcement, to means which shock the common
man's sense of decency and fair play.

McLAREN, ADMINISTRATOR OF McLAREN, v.
FLEISCHET.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA.

No. 291.

Argued April 26, 27, 1921.-Decided June 1, 1921.

The Act of May 14, 1880, c. 89, 21 Stat. 140, provides that "where
any person has contested, paid the land-office fees, and procured
the cancellation of any preemption, homestead, or timber-culture
entiy, he shall be notified by the register of the land-office of the
district in which such land is situated of such cancellation, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

shall be allowed thirty days from date of such notice to enter said
lands." Held, adopting the practical construction of the Land
Department, that where an existing first-form withdrawal under
the Reclamation Act prevented the land from becoming open to
entry for more than thirty days after the notice of cancelation
issued, a successful contestant of a homestead entry had thirty
days after the tract was restored to public entry within which to
exercise his preferred right. P. 480.
181 California, 607, affirmed.

Tins was a suit brought by McLaren to establish his

equitable title to land patented to Fleischer, and to
require Fleischer to convey. The state court of first
instance dismissed the complaint, and the certiorari brings
up a judgment of the state Supreme Court affirming that
judgment. The facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Samuel Herrick, with whom Mr. Henry M. Willis
was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Patrick H. Loughran for respondent.
MR. JusTIcE VAN DEVANTER delivered the opinion of
the court.

This case presents a controvery arising out of conflicting applications to enter a quarter section of land
under the homestead law. While the land was public
and unappropriated one Rider made a homestead entry
of it, and later it was included, with other lands, in a
first-form reclamation withdrawal.' The withdrawal
did not extinguish Rider's entry, but while in force prevented the initiation of other claims. It was largely
provisional and whenever in the judgment of the Secretary
of the Interior any of the lands were not required for the
purpose for which the withdrawal was made they were
to be restored to public entry. While the withdrawal
IThe withdrawal was made under the provision embodied in the
first six lines of ยง 3 of the Act of June 17, 1902, c. 1093, 32 Stat. 388.

McLAREN v. FLEISCHER.
477.

Opinion of the Court.

was in force one Fleischer instituted a contest against
Rider's entry, at his own cost collected and presented
evidence establishing its invalidity and procured its
cancelation. Rider acquiesced in that decision and is
not concerned in the present controversy. Fleischer had
no claim to the land prior to the contest and in instituting
and carrying it through acted as a common informer,
which was admissible under the public land laws. To
encourage the elimination of unlawful entries by such
contests Congress had declared in the Act of May 14,
1880, c. 89, 21 Stat. 140:
"In all cases where any person has contested, paid the
land-office fees, and procured the cancellation of any
preemption, homestead, or timber-culture entry, he
shall be notified by the register of the land-office of the
district in which such land is situated of such cancellation,
and shall be allowed thirty days from date of such notice
to enter said lands."
When Rider's entry was canceled the register sent to
Fleiseher a written notice informing him thereof and
stating that he would be allowed thirty days after the
tract was restored to public entry within which to enter
it in the exercise of his preferred right as a successful
contestant. The notice was dated February 11, 1909.
Afterwards the Secretary of the Interior issued an order
whereby the lands included in The withdrawal were restored to settlement on April 18, 1910, and to public
entry on May 18 following. On the earlier date one
McLaren made homestead settlement on this tract and
on the later date both Fleischer and McLaren applied
at the local land office to make homestead entry thereof,Fleischer in the exercise of his preferred right and McLaren in virtue of his settlement. Fleischer's application was allowed and McLaren's rejected, the local officers
being of opinion that Fleischer had the prior and better
right. McLaren appealed and the action of the local

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

officers was sustained by the Commissioner of the General
Land Office and by the Secretary of the Interior. In due
course Fleischer received a patent for the land and McLaren then brought this suit to have Fleischer declared a
trustee for him of the title and to compel a conveyance
in execution of the trust. During the pendency of the
suit McLaren died and it was revived in the name of his
personal representative. Fleischer prevailed in the court
of first instance and again in the Supreme Court of the
State. 181 California, 607. A writ of certiorari brings
the case here. 253 U. S. 479.
The sole question for decision is whether the officers
of the land department erred in matter of law in holding
that under the Act of May 14, 1880, Fleischer was entitled to thirty days after the land was restored to entry
within which to exercise his preferred right of entry.
The words of the act are, "shall be allowed thirty days
from date of such notice to enter said lands." Generally,
when an existing entry is canceled the land becomes at
once open to entry and the act is easily applied. But
where, as here, an existing withdrawal prevents the
land from becoming open to entry for more than thirty
days after the notice of cancelation issues, the application to be made of the act is not so obvious, and it becomes necessary to inquire what is intended. Does
the act mean that the preferred right to enter the land
is lost if not exercised within thirty days after the notice
issues, even though the land is not open to entry during
that period? Or does it mean that the contestant shall
have thirty days during which the land is open to entry
within which to exercise his preferred right, and therefore
that if the land is not open to entry at the date of the
notice the time during which that situation continues
shall be eliminated in computing the thirty-day period?
In the practical administration of the act the officers of
the land department have adopted and given effect to

McLAREN v. FLEISCHER.
477.

Opinion of the Court.

the latter view. They adopted it before the present controversy arose or was thought of, and, except for a departure soon reconsidered and corrected, they have
adhered to and followed it ever since.' Many outstanding titles are based upon it and much can be said in support of it. If not the only reasonable construction of the
act, it is at least an admissible one. It therefore comes
within the rule that the practical construction given to an
act of Congress, fairly susceptible of different constructions, by those charged with the duty of executing it is
entitled to great respect and, if acted upon for a number
of years, will not be disturbed except for cogent reasons.2
The case of Edwards v. Bodkin, 249 Fed. Rep. 562, and

IThe instructions of June 6, 1905, 33 L. D. 607, contained the
following:
"Seventh. When any entry for lands embraced within a withdrawal under the first form is canceled by reason of contest, or for
any other reason, such lands become subject immediately to such
withdrawal and can not, thereafter, so long as they remain so withdrawn, be entered or otherwise appropriated, either by a successful
contestant or any other person; but any contestant who gains a preferred right to enter any such lands may exercise that right at any
time within thirty days from notice that the lands involved have
been released from such withdrawal and made subject to entry."
The regulations of May 18, 1916, ยง 29, 45 L. D. 385, 391, contained
tile following:
"Should the land embraced in the contested entry be within a
first-form withdrawal at time of successful termination of the contest
the preferred right may prove futile, for it can not be exercised as
long as the land remains so withdrawn, but should the lands involved
be restored to the public domain or a farm-unit plat be approved for
the lands and announcement made that water is ready to be delivered,
the preference right may be exercised at any time within 30 days from
notice of the restoration or the establishment of farm units." And
see Wells v. Fisher, 47 L. D. 288, for a statement and discussion of
the departmental rulings.
2Brown v. United States, 113 U. S. 568, 571; Webster v. Luther,
163 U. S. 331, 342; United States v. Hammers, 221 U. S. 220, 228;
Logan v. Davis, 233 U. S. 613, 627; LaRoque v. United States, 239
U. S. 62, 64.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

265 Fed. Rep. 621, in which there was a decree of affirmance by this court, 255 U. S. 221, is cited as upholding a
different view of the act. The opinions rendered by the
Circuit Court of Appeals do indicate that it was disposed
to think the words "thirty days from date of such notice"
should be taken literally and strictly, but a careful read.ing of the opinions discloses that the decision was not put
On that ground. As was rightly said by the Supreme
Court of the State in the present case, "the decision
there was not to the effect that the contestant was by
mistake of law given the preference right." Indeed,
that case did not call for any expression of opinion on the
subject. The plaintiff there was the original homestead
entryman and was insisting that his entry had been unlawfully canceled. If that claim was well taken, as was
held, the cancelation did not give rise to any preferred
right. Besides, the defendant there was not claiming
under an entry based on a preferred right, but under
entries made after he had relinquished the entry which
he claimed was based thereon. Thus the observations
of the Circuit Court of Appeals respecting preferred
rights were obiter dicta, and, as the decree of affirmance
in this court was put on other grounds, those observations
are neither authoritative nor persuasive.
Here it is hot questioned that the original or first entrythat of Rider-was lavifully canceled. McLaren recognized that that entry had been lawfully eliminated when
he sought to initiate a claim to the land. He should also
have recognized thatFleischer, by his contest, had brought
about its elimination and was entitled, as a reward, to
enter the land at any time within thirty days after it was
restored to entry.
We conclude that the state courts rightly refused to
disturb the construction which the officers of the land
department had put on the act.
Judgment affirmed.

