OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Syllabus.

256 U. .

received by plaintiff in that State; but without prejudice to the right of the State, through appellants or
other officers, to enforce collection of the excise tax with
respect to sales of gasoline from broken packages in quantities to suit purchasers, notwithstanding such gasoline
may have been brought into the State in interstate commerce, and with respect to any and all gasoline used by
plaintiff at its distributing stations or elsewhere in the
State in the operation of its automobile tank wagons or
otherwise; and without prejudice to the right of the State,
through appellants or other officers, to require plaintiff
to render detailed statements of all gasoline received,
sold, or used by it, whether in interstate commerce or not,
to the end that the State may the more readily enforce
said excise tax to the extent that it has lawful power to
enforce it as above stated.
Deem rwe ed, and he cause renwam ed for furt-h pr.
cawedag in wqfr=Vl wiah thi wpmom

HARRIS, BY HIS NEXT FPREND, ETC. v. DISTRICT
OF COLUMBIA.
ON cmEi[lCATE FROM THE COURT OF APPEAI
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

OF TE

No. 16. Argued January 24, 1919.-Decided June 6, 1921.
L The work of cleaning the streets for the protection of the public
health and comfort appertains to the discretionary governmental
functions of the District of Columbia, distingished from the special
corporate or municipal duty of keeping the stzeets in repair. P. 652.
2. The Distaic is not liable for personal injuries occasioned by the
negli
of As employee while engaged in sprinkling streets po-

paatr to cleaning them. P. 652.

HARRIS v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
650.

Opinion of the Couwr

THm case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Rona F. Downing, for Harris, discussed the following cases:
Wightman v. Corporationof Washington, 1 Black, 39;
Barnes v. District of Columbia, 91 U. S. 540; District of
Columbia v. Woodbury, 136 U. S. 450; Quill v. New York,
36 App. Div. 476; Missanov. The Mayor, 160 N. Y. 126;
Barney Dumping-Boat Co. v. The Mayor, 40 Fed. Rep. 50;
Young v. Metropolitan Street Ry. Co., 126 Mo. App. 2;
Denver v. Porter, 126 Fed. Rep. 288; Pass Christian v.
Fernandez, 100 Mississippi, 76; Ostrom v. San Antonio, 94
Texas, 525; Denver v. Davis, 37 Colorado, 370; Coates v.
District of Columbia, 42 App. D. C. 194; Bruhnke v. LaCrosse, 155 Wisconsin, 485; Conelly v. Nashvile, 100
Tennessee, 262; Love v. Atlanta, 95 Georgia, 129; Condidt
v. Jersey City,46 N. J. L 157; Savage v. Salem, 23 Oregon,
381; Kuehn v. Mi7maukee, 92 Wisconsin, 263; Bryant v.
& Paul, 33 Minnesota, 291; Haley v. Boston, 191 Massachusetts, 291; Hill v. Boston, 122 Massachusetts, 376;
Workman v. New York City, 179 U. 8. 552.
Mr. Robert L. Wiams and Mr. Francis H. Stephen.,
with whom Mr. Conrad H. Syme was on the brief, for
the District of Columbia
Ma. Jusrc McRzyowm delivered the opinion of the
court.

The Court of Appeals, District of Columbia, has certified
the following question (Jud. Code, ยง 251):
"Is the sprinkling of the streets to keep down dust
for the purpose of the comfort and health of the general
public, a public or governmental act as contradistinguished
from a private or municipal act, which exempts the District of Columbia from liability for the injuries caused
by one of its employees engaged therein? "

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

In order to prepare the streets of Washington for
sweeping, it was the practice to sprinilde them from portable tanks. While filling one of these tanks through a
hose connected to a water plug, a corporate employee
negligently dropped the plug cover and injured Adelbert
Harris, a young child. He brought suit against the
District of Columbia for damages.
It is established doctrine that when acting in good
faith municipal corporations are not liable for the manner
in which they exercise discretionary powers of a public
or legislative character. A different rule generally prevails as to their private or corporate powers. Dillon on
Municipal Corporations, 5th ed., ยง 1626, et seq., and
cases cited.
Application of these general principles to the facts of
particular cases has occasioned much difficulty. The
circumstances being stated, it is not always easy to determine what power a municipal corporation is exercising.
But, nothing else appearing, we are of opinion that, when
sweeping the streets, a municipality is exercising its discretionary powers to protect public health and comfort
and is not performing a special corporate or municipal
duty to keep them in repair. This conclusion, we think,
accords with common observation, harmonizes with what
has been declared heretofore concerning liability of the
District of Columbia for torts, and is supported by well
considered cases. Weightman v. Corporationof Washington
(1861), 1 Black, 39; Barnes v. District of Columbia (1875),
91 U. S. 540, 551; Ditrict of Columbia v. Woodbury (1890),
136 U. S. 450; Loe v. Atlanta, 95 Georgia, 129; Conelly v.
NashmTle, 100 Tennessee, 262; Haley v. Boston, 191 Massachusetts, 291; Bruhnke v. La Crosse, 155 Wisconsin, 485.
In Weightman v. Corporation of Washington, supra, the
corporation was held liable for injuries resulting from an
insecure bridge placed by the charter under its exclusive
control and management. Among other things, through

HARRIS v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
650.

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Justice Clifford, this was said: "Municipal corporations undoubtedly are invested with certain powers,
which, from their nature, are discretionary, such as the
power to adopt regulations or by-laws for the management of their own affairs, or for the preservation of the
public health, or to pass ordinances prescribing and regulating the duties of policemen and firemen, and for many
other useful and important objects within the scope of
their charters. Such powers are generally regarded as
discretionary, because, in their nature, they are legislative;
and although it is the duty of such corporations to carry
out the powers so granted and make them beneficial,
still it has never been held that an action on the case
would lie against the corporation, at the suit of an individual, for the failure on their part to perform such a
duty. . . . Whether the action in this case is maintainable against the defendants or not, depends upon the
terms and conditions of their charter, as is obvious from
the views already advanced."
Barnes v. District of Columbia, supra, presented a case
of injury arising from a defective street. The District was
held liable, and, for the court, Mr. Justice Hunt said,
concerning the point presently important:
"Some cases hold that the adoption of a plan of such a
work is a judicial act; and, if injury arises from the mere
execution of that plan, no liability exists. Child v. City
of Boston, 4 Allen, 41; Thayer v. Boston, 19 Pick. 511.
Other cases hold that for its negligent execution of a plan
good in itself, or for- mere negligence in the care of its
streets or other works, a municipal corporation cannot
be charged. City of Detroit v. Blackteby, 21 Michigan, 84, is
of the latter class, where it was held that. the city was not
liable for an injury arising from its neglect to keep its
sidewalks in repair.
"The authorities establishing the contrary doctrine
that a city is responsible for its mere negligence, are so

OCTOBER TERM, 192
Diment.

256 U. .

numerous and so well considered, that the law must be
deemed to be settled in accordance with them." (Citing
many cases.)
Disbie of Columbia v. WodbM, upra. Woodbury
claimed, damages for injuries resulting from a sidewalk,
negligently permitted to remain out of repair. Held, that
the principle of Barnes v. Distid qf Columbia applies,
notwithstanding the form of the District government

had been change&
In Both v. Disric of Columbia, 16 App. D. C. 323;
Brown v. Disridof Columbia, 29 App. D. C. 273; Disbid
of Columbiav. Tyrrell, 41 App. D. C. 463; and Coate v.
Distrit of Columbia, 42 App. D. C. 194, freedom of the
District of Columbia from liability on account of matters
within ita governmental powers is recognized.
Workman v. New York City, 179 U. S. 552, is not appli-

cable. The proceeding being in admiralty, rights and
liabilities of the parties depended upon the maritime
code and not upon local laws of New YorL Here, common-law principles apply. See Suthen Pacific Co. v.
Jsmn, 244 U. & 205.
The certified question must be answered in the affirmative.
Mn. Jumrrc HoLIms, Mn. Juvncz Bwwnms and
MR. JusCn CL&BKE dissent.

