OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Statement of the Case.

256 U. S.

well defined purpose of Congress would be impeded rather
than facilitated by permitting entry of the wives and
minor children of Chinamen who first came after the
ratification of the treaty, as members of an exempt class,
and later assumed the status of laborers. We think our
statutes exclude all Chinese persons belonging to the
class defined as laborers except those specifically and
definitely exempted, and there is no such exemption of a
resident laborer's wife and minor children.
The judgment of the court below is

Affirmed.
MR. JUSTIcE CLARKE dissents.

UNITED STATES v.

I-rNA EXPLOSIVES COMPANY.

CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF CUSTOMS
.APPEALS.
No. 296.

Argued April 27, 28, 1921.-Decided May 16, 1921.

The addition of 20 per cent of sulphuric acid to a shipment of nitric
acid, to render the latter non-injurious to the steel tanks in which it
is transported, resulting in a mechanical mixture not intended or
adapted as such to commercial use, does not take the merchandise
out of par. 387 of the free list, Tariff Act of 1913, and render it dutiable under par. 5, which imposes 15 per cent ad valorem on "all chemical and medicinal compounds, preparations, mixtures," etc. P. 404.
9 Cust. App. Rep. 298, affirmed.

CERTIORARI to review a judgment of the Court of
Customs Appeals, which, reversing a judgment order of
the Board of General Appraisers (G. A. 8235, 36 T. D.
170; Brown, G. A., dissenting), sustained the respondent's
claim of free entry for its merchandise.

UNITED STATES v. XETNA EXPLOSIVES CO. 403
402.

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Assistant Attorney General Hanson for the United
States.
Mr. Addison S. Pratt for respondent.
MR. JusTcIE MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of
the court.
A writ of certiorari to the Court of Customs Appeals
was granted under the Act of August 22, 1914, c. 267, 38
Stat. 703. 9 Cust. App. Rep. 298.
The question presented is whether the import- came
within paragraph 387 of the free list, Tariff Act of 1913,
c. 16, 38 Stat. 114, which provides"Acids: Acetic or pyroligneous, arsenic or arsenious,
carbolic, chromic, fluoric, hydrofluoric, hydrochloric or
muriatic, nitric, phosphoric, phthalic, prussic, siicic,
sulphuric or oil of vitriol, and valerianic; " or was dutiable under paragraph 5-"Alkalies, alkaloids, and all chemical and medicinal
compounds, preparations, mixtures and salts, and combinations thereof not specially'provided for in this section,
15 per centum ad valorem."
The imported merchandise was nitric acid, to which
approximately 20 per cent. by weight and 5 per cent.
according to value of sulphuric acid had been added for
the sole purpose of preventing corrosion of steel tank cars
essential for transportation of the former acid in large
quantities. That the addition of sulphuric acid prevents
nitric acid from attacking steel is a well known fact concerning which there is no very satisfactory explanation.
The court below found the sulphuric acid was added solely
for transportation purposes, and that the result was not a
mixture merchantable as such for use in the United
States. It accordingly held that no duty should have
been demanded and among other things said:

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.

Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

"The word 'preparations ' [in paragraph 5] implies of
course that they are something prepared and adapted
to particular uses or services. It is no stretch to say that
the word 'mixtures ' as here employed was used in a
similar sense to import mixtures susceptible of commercial use as they exist, or are at least such as are purposely
started on their way toward adaptation to such use.
While not resting this case solely upon this view, it certainly would appeal with great force were it the only consideration involved." "The testimony fairly tends to
show that as a commercial proposition there is only one
practical means of transporting strong nitric acid such
as that involved in the present importation in quantities
sufficient to meet the current demand, and that is to mix
it with a sufficient amount of sulphuric acid and ship it
"It is evident that the importer
in tank cars or drums."
sought to introduce nitric acid and had no desire to import
sulphuric acid, or nitric and sulphuric acid as a usable
mixture. This small percentage of sulphuric acid which
was relatively insignificant in its money value was employed solely for the purpose of making it possible to
ship the nitric acid into this country in usable quantities,
The result was not a mixture merchantable as such for
use in the United States. . . . The merchandise had
not reached the state of a commercial mixture contemplated by the statute. It was susceptible of no use other
than as nitric acid, which must before use be again treated.
The mixing of this minimum amount of sulphuric acid
should be treated as a means of and part of the shipment,
and as an act as essential in the importation of nitric acid
as would have been the proper packing of glassware or
other goods designed for shipment by rail." "In the
present case we are convinced that there was neither an
advantage to the importer in adding the requisite amount
of sulphuric acid to admit of safe shipment of the nitric
acid nor was there any possible loss of revenue 'to the

UNITED STATES v. tETNA EXPLOSIVES CO.
402.

405

Dissent.

Government. The sole purpose for which this addition
was made was to admit of shipment. It would be sticking
in the bark to say that this was such a mixture as the
statute in question contemplates. It is not yet prepared.
It has not been advanced as a preparation for actual
use except to the extent that a small portion of the requisite amount of sulphuric acid which when added in
the proper quantity would result in making a mixture
which was usable, is found in this tank instead of some
other. The quantity is relatively insignificant." "We
think that the true rule is that the introduction of a quantity of sulphuric acid solely for the purpose of rendering
the transportation of nitric acid safe, and which does not
result in a usable mixture, is more in the nature of an act
of shipment than an admixture and does not produce a
substance which is dutiable under paragraph 5."
We find no reason for disapproving the conclusion
reached by the Court of Customs Appeals. The applicable
tariff act granted free entry to both nitric and sulphuric
acids, and, viewed practically, the commodity in question
was nothing more than nitric acid rendered non-injurious
to steel tanks by adding sulphuric acid of small value.
The two acids do not interact and the result was a mere
mechanical mixture not intended or adapted as such for
commercial use and not a chemical mixture within the
true intent of paragraph 5.
The judgment of the court below must be
A firmed.
MR. JusTicE DAY took no part in the consideration or
decision of this case.
MR. JUsTCE CLARK dissents.

