FREDERICK v. FIDELITY INS. CO.
377.

Opinion of the Court.

the act with respect to deductions from cost values of
capital assets because of depreciation or the like; no question of that kind being here involved.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDs concurs in the result.

FREDERICK, TRUSTEE IN BANKRUPTCY OF
SCHMIDT, v. FIDELITY MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE ,COMPANY OF PHILADELPHIA.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 547. Submitted January 3, 1921.-Decided May 16, 1921.
An insurance company which paid to the beneficiary the amount of a
life insurance policy, in strict conformity with its terms, after the
death of the insured and without notice of his pending bankruptcy
or claim made by the bankruptcy trustee, is not liable to pay the
trustee the surrender value under ยง 70a of the Bankruptcy Act.
P. 397.
75 Pa. Sup. Ct. Rep. 77, affirmed.

THm case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Lowrie C. Barton for petitioner.
Mr. George Sutherland for respondent. Mr. John C.
Slack, Mr. 0. S. Richardson and Mr. W. D. N. Rogers
were also on the brief.
MR. JUSTICE PiTNEY delivered the opinion of the court.
John E. Schmidt having died pending bankruptcy, his
trustee, the present petitioner, sued the Insurance Corn-

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

pany, respondent, in the Court of Common Pleas of
Allegheny County, Pennsylvania, to recover the proceeds of a certain policy of life insurance, with interest
from the date of death. By an am'ended statement plaintiff limited his claim to the surrender value of the policy
at the time of the adjudication of bankruptcy. The
Court of Common Pleas gave judgment in favor of defendant; on appeal the Superior Court affirmed the judgment (75 Pa. Sup. Ct. Rep. 77); the Supreme Court of
the State refused an appeal, thereby making the judgment of the Superior Court final; and a writ of certiorari
brings the case here.
The facts in brief are as follows: September 20, 1902,
the insurance company issued a policy of insurance upon
the life of John E. Schmidt in the sum of $1,000, payable
upon surrender of the policy properly receipted, after
acceptance of proof of death; payment to be made to his
wife, Annie M. Schmidt, or, if he should survive her, then
to his administrators, executors or assigns, subject to
certain provisions, one of which was: "The insured, with
the written approval of the President or Vice-President,
may upon the surrender of this policy, change the beneficiary, or with such approval it may be assigned."
December 19, 1912, a petition in involuntary bankruptcy
was filed against Schmidt; on January 8th following he
was duly adjudged a bankrupt; and one month later petitioner was elected and duly qualified as his trustee. The
policy was not included in the schedule of assets, and
petitioner had no knowledge of it until after the proceeds
had been paid by the insurance company to the widow.
Upon the date of the adjudication of bankruptcy the
policy had a cash surrender value of $322. April 4, 1913,
the bankrupt died, proof of the fact and cause of his
death was duly made and accepted by the company, and
May 7,1913, it paid the face of the policy to the beneficiary
named therein and took her receipt therefor. Neither

FREDERICK v. FIDELITY INS. CO.
395.

Opinion of the Court.

then nor at any time before had the company knowledge
of the adjudication in bankruptcy, or notice that the
trustee would claim the whole or any part of the policy.
The trustee's suit to recover the surrender value is
grounded upon ยง 70a of the Bankruptcy Act (July 1, 1898,
c. 541, 30 Stat. 544, 565), under which the trustee is vested
by operation of law with the title of the bankrupt as of
the date he was adjudged a bankrupt, to rights and property not exempt, including "(3) powers which he might
have exercised for his own benefit, but not those which
he might have exercised for some other person;
(5) property which prior to the filing of the petition he
could by any means have transferred or which might
have been levied upon and sold under judicial process
against him: Provided, That when any bankrupt shall
have any insurance policy which has a cash surrender
value payable to himself, his estate, or personal representatives, he may, within thirty days after the cash
surrender value has been ascertained and stated to the
trustee by the company issuing the same, pay or secure
to the trustee the sum so ascertained and stated, and continue to hold, own, and carry such policy free from the
claims of the creditors participating in the distribution
of his estate under the bankruptcy proceedings, otherwise the policy shall pass to the trustee as assets;
"
This provision shows it was the purpose of Congress
to pass to the trustee whatever sum was available to the
bankrupt at the time of bankruptcy as cash assets to be
realized on surrender of the policy, but otherwise to leave
to the insured the benefit of his life insurance. Burlingham
v. Crouse, 228 U. S. 45C-, :73; Everett v. Judson, 228
U. S. 474. In two recent cases, Cohen v. Samuels, 245
U. S. 50, 53; Cohn v. Malone, 248 U. S. 450, we have held
that the surrender value of a policy not in terms payable
to the bankrupt but which could be made so payable at
the bankrupt's will by a simple declaration changing the

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

beneficiary, must be regarded as assets to which the trustee
in bankruptcy was entitled. In each case the question
arose while the policy was in the bankrupt's possession
unmatured, and the interest of the insurance company
was not affected. Here the question is whether, after the
death of the insured and payment of the stipulated amount
to the beneficiary named in the policy in strict conformity
to its terms, without notice of the bankruptcy or claim
made by the trustee, there is a liability on the part of the
insurance company to pay to the trustee the surrender
value that, on complying with the terms of the policy, he
might have demanded.
It is not enough to sustain the trustee's claim to say
that the filing of the petition in bankruptcy was a caveat
to all the world, and in effect an attachment and injunction, and that on adjudication title to the bankrupt's
property became vested in the trustee. Mueller v. Nugent,
184 U. S. 1, 14. The asserted right of property arose out
of a contract under which the insurance company had
rights as well as the insured: The company's contract
was to pay the stipulated amount to the beneficiary first
named on receiving proof of death of the insured, unless
the latter should have surrendered the policy and, with
the written approval of the head officer of the company,
have changed the beneficiary. The requirement of such
surrender and approval was for the protection of the
company, so purposed that at least it should have notice
before its liability under the policy was modified. Section
70a of the Bankruptcy Act cannot be construed to give
to the trustee in bankruptcy a right as against the company to demand that the surrender value be made assets
of the estate, as by a change in beneficiary, without timely
notice to the company of a demand for such a change;
for the section in its very words contemplates that the
cash surrender value shall have been "ascertained and
stated to the trustee by the company issuing the" policy.

YEE WON v. WHITE.
395.

Opinion of the Court.

In the present case, the company, having in good faith
performed the contract according to its terms, without
the notice that the contract called for as a condition of
changing the terms, can not be called upon to make the
further payment demanded by the trustee. Frederick v.
Metropolitan Life Ins. Co., 239 Fed. Rep. 125.
Judgment affirmed.

YEE WON v. WHITE, AS COMMISSIONER OF
IMMIGRATION, PORT OF SAN FRANCISCO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 209. Submitted April 20, 1921.-Decided May 16, 1921.
A Chinese person who lawfully entered the United States as the minor
son of a Chinese merchant, but whose status here became that of
a laborer, held not entitled to bring in his wife and minor children,
married and born during his temporary absence in China. P. 400.
258 Fed. Rep. 792, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. M. Walton Hendry and Mr. John L. McNab for
petitioner. Mr. Joseph P. Fallon was also on the brief.
The Solicitor Generalfor respondent.
MR. JusTIcE MCREYNoLDS delivered the opinion of the

court.
The courts below denied petitioner's application for a
writ of habeas corpus to secure release of his wife and minor
children, who, having been denied admission upon their

