HIULLKR v. MEM~S

expected from the course that the ddendants are alleged
to intend, and to determine whether they are authorized
to follow that course it is not enough to refer to the general
olfdercheci to present theni but it is necesright of a
sary to consider whether the collection of cheeks and
p
than in a body for the purpose of breaking
down the plamnWWh business as now conducted is Ju

fe

by the ulterior purpoe in view.
If this were a aeof competitn in private busincs it
would be hard to
the justification of fl-interest
eouidering the now current opinion as to public policy
xpzmed in statutes and decisions. But this is not private
The policy of the Federal Reserve Bank is
bunine
gwvwed by the policy of the United States with regard
to thm and to thuie relatively feeble competitors. We"
do not need aid from the debates pon the statute under
wbich the Revme Beam exist to ame that the United
States did not intusdby that statute to sanction this ortd wefae upon legitimate creatmos of the States.

HEiTMUIJE V.STOKlE.
Nina

TO 91ME

COURT

OF APPNB OF IM

DJIICT OF

COIJUJM

N& V&

dA l 2

, .
A

i.-DesHd May 16, 1021.

1e. dedauat in wmmhavig mudn jumdgmt for the pcinm
to a suanger, after the am had
of hk red estte, mld the Ian
bem rved
'o tk curt by wvt of enw, Imving the defaeidat
impmman.
thlwomokoW m aied betwem &e,
1111160116
- I tGod th-k P.n woWuld nt decide tie me'ite,

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

but would lay the cosi of this writ of error upon the defendant in
error and reverse the judgment with insruchom to dm
the
complaint. P. 361.
49 App. D. C. 391; 266 Fed. Rep. 1011, reversed.

Tmi ease is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Chapin Brown, with whom Mr. C. B. Bauman was
on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Wharton E. Lester for defendant in error.

MR. JUsTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
Sylvanus Stokes brought suit in the Municipal Court
of the District of Columbia to recover from Anna Heitmuller possession of premises number 1505, 22nd Street,
Northwest, in the City of Washington, D. C. Stokes
claimed to be the purchaser of the premises, and the action
was brought against Anna Heitmuller as tenant thereof.
Trial was had in the Municipal Court, and judgment
rendered in favor of the defendant. Stokes appealed to
the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, and filed
an affida-it after the docketing of the appeal as required
by Rule 19 of that court. Defendant filed an affidavit
setting forth grounds of defense. The Supreme Court
entered judgment for the plaintiff, Stokes, upon the
ground that the defense as set forth by the defendant
was insufficient to defeat the plaintiff's recovery. The
case was taken to the Court of Appeals of the District
of Columbia, where the judgment of the Supreme Court
was affirmed. 49 App. D. C. 391. A writ of error brings
the cAse to this court.
The errors assigned raise constitutional questions as
to the validity of the so-called Saulsbury Resolution (40
Stat. 593), and of Rule 19 of the Supreme Court of the
District of Columbia. Other errors, not necessary to
notice, are also assigned.

HEITMULLER v. 8TOKE.
Ophmin of the oUzrL

30U.

The Judgment of the Court of Appeals of the District,
affirming that of the Supreme Court, was rendered on
January 5, 1920, and on January 15, 1920, a writ of error

wa allowed bringing the am to this court. On Februmy 9, lo0, Stokes, appellee in the Court of Appeals, and

dufendant in error hem, filed a motion to dismi

the writ

of error upon the ground that he had sold and conveyed

the rial eswte, the p
of which was the subjectmatter in dispute, and had no further interest in the cause
ezmept to recover costs and rental due because of the
wrongful detention of the property, and upon the further
ground that no appeal bond had been filed by the appenant. The Court of Appeals denied the motion. After
the allowance of the writ of err,the cause had pawed

beyond the juidito of 1ht ourt-

In this court the ddeMlant in erro, Stokes, moves to
dinim the writ of uW, setting forth as grounds for the

1. 11e ca
of action between the partie hereto has
masd to exist, for that after the judgment of the
Court of Appeals of the District,- of Cohuhia appeflee
sdd and conveyed the rel estate, the subjeet-ma
of this suit, and therefore is not now entitled to the
nd

hwir

msuzb

nmely, the

ofd mid

2. Ther is now no actual controversy involving real
and miutantial ri&ts between the parties to the record,
ad no subjectmatter upon which the judgment of this
ourt can operate.
3. The only questwn now involved in this appeal is
that of costs.
As the action was rought to recover the posseson of

rd estate, and as the defendant in error has, pending
review in this court, sold it, we agree with-the coxattion
that the ase has oeome nmoot. The plaintiff in error,
so far as the recorddisclaues, is in psesion, and the de-

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.

Opinion of the Cour.

256 U. S.

fendant in error, having sold and conveyed the property,
a judgment if in his favor will not give him possession of
the premises. It has been often held that this court will
not decide moot cases. The rule was stated in Mi/s v.
Green, 159 U. S.-651, 653:
"The duty of this court, as of every other judicial
tribunal, is to decide actual controversies by a judgment
which can be carried into effect, and not to give opinions
upon moot questions or abstract propositions, or to decktre principles or rules of law which cannot affect the
matter ir imue in the case before it. It necessarily follows
that when, pending an appeal from the judgment of a
lower court, and without any fault of the defendant, an
event occurs which renders it imposible for this court,
if it should decide the case in favor of the plaintiff, to grant
him any effectual relief whatever, the court will not proceed to a formal judgment, but will dismiss the appeal.
And such a fact, when not appearing on the record, may
be proved by extrinsic evidence. Lord v. Veazie, 8 How.
251; Californiav. San Pablo & Tulare Railroad, 149 U. S.
308." See also United tate v. Hamburg-American Co.,
239 U. S. 466, 476, and cases cited.
Where no controversy remains except as to costs, this
court will not paw upon the merits. Paper-Bag Cases,
105 U. S. 766, 772.
It remains to be considered what order should be made.
Although, owing to the moot character of the issue involved, we may not consider the merit, we are at liberty
to make such order as is "most consonant to justice in
view of the conditions and circumstances of the particular
case." United States v. Hamburg-American Co., Supra,
pp. 477, 478.
In the case now before us, without fault of the plaintiff
in error, the defendant in error, after the proceedings
below, practically ended the controversy by parting with
title to the premises, thus causiag the case to become moot.

KRICHMAN v. UNITED STATES.
359.

363

Opinion of the Court.

In such case the costs incurred upon the writ of error
should be paid by the defendant in error.
Reversed, and remanded to the Court of Appeals of the
District of Columbia with direction to remand to the
Supreme Court of the District of Columbia with instructionsto dismiss the complaint.

KRICHMAN v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 260. Argued March 23, 1921.-Decided May 16, 1921.
A baggage porter employed in a station of a railroad controlled and
operated by the United States under the railroad control legislation
during the late War, was not a "person acting for or on behalf of
the United States in any official function," within the intendment

of ยง 39 of the Criminal Code concerning briberies. P. 365.
263 Fed' Rep. 538, reversed.
CERTIORARI to review a judgment of the Circuit Court of
Appeals affirming a judgment of the District Court on a
conviction under an indictment. The facts are stated in
the opinion.

Mr. Edward Schoen for petitioner.
Mr. W. C. Herron, with whom Mr. Assistant Attorney
General Stewart was on the brief, for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
Krichman, petitioner, was convicted upon an indictment which charged that, while the Pennsylvania Railroad was under the control of and being operated by the

