OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Counsel for Paries.

56 U.

B.

WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH COMPANY v.
POSTON.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREIKE COURT OF THE STATE OF
SOUTH CAROLINA.
No. 29.

Argued October 20, 190.-L-ided June 6, 1921.

1. A telegraph company is not subject to a common-law liability for
negligent delay in the delivery of a message while its system was
in the exciusve possession and control of the Government and being
operated by the Postmaster General, pursuant to the Joint Resolution of July 16, 1918, c. 154, 40 Stat. 904, and the Proclamation of
July 22, 1918, 40 Stat. 1807. P. 664. Miasoui Pacific R. R. Co. v.
Ault, ante, 554.
2. The provision of the proclamation for continuing operation of the

telegraph systems through the officers and employees in the names
of their respective companies, subject to the orders of the Postmaster General, did not make the companies the operating agents
of the United States, and so render them liable for such negligence,
nor did the Postmaster General's Order, of like effect, dated August 1,
1918. P. 665.
& The contract of October 9, 1918, between the Postmaster General
and the petitioner did not make the company liable for negligence
under government operation, but merely provided indemnity. P. 666.
4. Omission of Congress to provide a remedy against the Government
in such eases would afford no ground for holding the telegraph
company liable. P. 667.
107 S. E. Rep. 516, reversed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Rush Taggartand Mr. FrancisR. Stark, with whom
Mr. P. A. Wicoz, Mr. F. L. Willcox and Mr. Henry E.
Davis were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Philip H. Arrowsmith, with whom Mr. Alva M.
Lumpkin was on the brief, for respondent.

WESTERN UNION TEL. CO. v. POSTON.
662.

663

Opinion of the Court.

The Solicitor General filed a brief on behalf of the United
States.
Mr. Win. M. Silteran and Mr. Joseph P. Tolin8, by
leave of court, filed a brief as amici curia.
MR. JUSTICE; BR&n2Exs delivered the opinion of the
court.
The Supreme Court of South Carolina (107 S. E. Rep.
516) affirmed a judgment of the trial court against the
Western Union Telegraph Company for damages resulting from negligent delay in delivering an intrastate
message sent October 2, 1918. Its telegraph system was
at that time in the exclusive possession and control of the
Government and was being operated by the Postmaster
General pursuant to the joint resolution of Congress of
July 16, 1918, c. 154, 40 Stat. 904, and the proclamation
of the President of July 22, 1918, 40 Stat. 1807. The state
court declared th~t, while the action and the judgment
recovered therein were in form against the Western Union
Telegraph Company, yet, in effect, they were against the
Postmaster General; that in suing the company the plaintiff had pursued the course directed by the President's
proclamation and confirmed by the contract dated October
9, 1918, between the Postmaster General and company.
concerning compensation; and that since under this contract the Postmaster General would have to pay any
judgment rendered against the company, the entry of
judgment would not deprive it of property without due
process of law. This court granted a writ of certiorari,
253 U. S. 480. Whether the company can be held liable
is the only question presented here.
Our decision must depend primarily upon the authority
conferred by Congress in the joint resolution which provided:

OCTIBER TERM, 1920.

Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

"That the President during the continuance of the
present war is authorized and empowered, whenever he
shall deem it necessary for the national security or defense, to supervise or to take possession and assume control of any telegraph, telephone, marine cable, or radio
system or systems, or any part thereof, and to operate the
same insuch manner as may be needful or desirable for
the duration of the war

.

.

.

Provided,That just com-

pensation shall be made for such supervision, possession,
control, or operation, to be determined by the President."
Under this resolution the President might, doubtless,
have limited his function to mere supervision of the telegraph and telephone systems leaving them in the possession and under the control of the companies. But the
resolution also empowered him "to take possession and
assume control " of the systems; and this he did, (Dakota
Central Telephone Co. v. South Dakota, 250 U. S. 163, 183,
185) the proclamation declaring:
"I . . . do hereby take possession and assume control and supervision of each and every telegraph and telephone system, and every part thereof, within the jurisdiction of the United States, including all equipment
thereof and appurtenances thereto whatsoever and all
materials and supplies.
"From and after twelve o'clock midnight on the 31st
day of July, 1918, all telegraph and telephone systems included in this order and proclamation shall conclusively
be deemed within the possession and control and under
the supervision of said Postmaster General without further
act or notice."
In conferring upon the President power "to take possession and assume control " of the telegraph systems
the resolution adopted language identical with that which
had been employed in the Act of August 29, 1916, c. 418,
39 Stat. 619, 645, pursuant to which the railroads were
brought under federal control. See MissouriPacific R. R.

WESTERN UNION TEL. CO. v. POSTON.
662.

Opinion of the Court.

Co. v. Ault, ante, 554. We held there that the supplementary legislation known as the Federal Control Act did not
impose liability upon the company, and that, since the
Government was operating the property, the railroad
company could not be held liable under the established
principles of the common law governing liability. These
principles are equally applicable here.
In respect to telegraph systems there was no supplementary legislation similar to the Federal Control Act;
so that the argument mainly relied upon by plaintiff in
the Missouri Pacific Case is not made here. But it is contended that the proclamation, the order of the Postmaster General of August. 1, 1918, and the contract between him and the company concerning compensation
authorized suit against the company as the operating agent
of the Government in the same way that the Federal Control Act authorized suit against the Director General.
We find in them no basis for such liability.' Obviously
neither proclamation, order, nor contract could create a
liability not authorized by the resolution of Congress
on which they rest. Nor did they attempt to do so.
(a) The provision in the proclamation relied upon to
establish the liability is this:
"Until and except so far as said Postmaster General
shall from time to time by general or special orders otherwise provide, the owners, managers, boards of directors,
receivers, officers, and employees of the various telegraph
I This view has been taken also by state courts. Canidatev. Western
Union Telegraph Co., 203 Ala. 675; Western Union Telegraph Co. v.
Glover, 17 Ala. App. 374; Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Davis, 142
Ark. 304; Mitchell v. Cumberland Telephone Co., 188 Ky.263; Foster v.
Western Union Telegraph Co., 205 Mo. App. 1; Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Conditt, 223 S. W. Rep. 234 (Tex. Civ. App.); Western
Union Telegraph Co. v. Robinson, 225 S. W. Rep. 877 (Texas Civ.
App.).
See contra, Witherspoon & Sons v. Postal Telegraph & Cable
Co., 257 Fed. Rep. 758; Spring v. American Telegraph & Telphone
Co., 86 W. Va. 192.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

and telephone systems shall continue the operation thereof
in the usual and ordinary course of the business of said
systems, in the names of their respective companies,
associations, organizations, owners, or managers, as the
case may be."
This provision is in no way inconsistent with holding
that the President took possession of and operated the
telegraph systems as distinguished from taking over the
companies and operating them. The companies were
not made the operating agents of the United States. The
officers of the companies were to operate the properties
for the United States and it was to be done "in the names
of their respective companies."
(b) The Postmaster General's Order No. 1783, dated
August 1, 1918, was of like effect. It merely directed that:
"Until further notice the telegraph and telephone companies shall continue operation in the ordinary course of
business through regular channels. . . .All officers,
operators and employees . . . will continue in the performance of their present duties, reporting to the same
officers as heretofore and on the same terms of employment."
(c) The contract of October 9, 1918, between the Postmaster General and the Western Union, did not purport
to make the company liable. It merely provided indemnity. The provision relied upon is this:
"The Postmaster General shall pay, or save the owner
harmless from, all expenses incident to or growing out
of the possession, operation and use of the property taken
over during the period of Federal control. He shall also
pay or save the owner harmless from all judgments or
decrees that may be recovered or issued against, and all
fines and penalties that may be imposed upon it by reason
of any cause of action arising out of Federal control or
anything done or omitted in the possession, operation,
use or control of its property during the period of Federal

WESTERN UNION TEL. CO. v. POSTON.
662.

667

Opinion of the Court.

control, except judgments or decrees founded on obligations of the owner to the Postmaster General or the
United States."
This provision is substantially the same as that inserted in the compensation agreement entered into between the Director General of Railroads and the railroad
companies. 1

It is urged that telegraph companies should be held
liable because otherwise those using the system would be
without remedy for losses suffered thereby. Whether
this is true or whether under the Tucker Act the sender
of a message would have a remedy in the Court of Claims
or in a Federal District Court we have no occasion to
consider in this case.2 If Congress has omitted to provide
adequately for the protection of rights of the public, Congress alone can provide the remedy.
Reversed.
See Form A, October 22, 1918, for "Agreement between the Director General of Railroads and the . . . Company," Bulletin No. 4
(Revised) pp. 39, 47, ยง 4, Par. i.
In Heil v. United Stoles, 273 Fed. Rep. 729, a petition under the
Tucker Act for damages arising from failure to transmit a prepaid
cable message over the Commercial Cable Company's lines was held
by Learned Hand, D. J., on demurrer to state a good cause of action.
See also discussion in Senate, June 10, 1919, vol. 58, Cong. Rec., p. 920.

