OCTOBER TERM, 1920.

Orders.

256 U..

STATE OF OKAHOMA v. STATE OF TEXAS.
UNITED STATES, INTERVENER.
IN EQUrrY.
No. 2, OrdighL
ORDERS AD

ni T ER3,JORY DECREE ENTERED

JUNE 1, 1921.

Directing Vie Receiver to sink an o%7 and gas well on land
daiwaed by Pearson et aL, with provison as to expenses,
apera
and dpoition of procd.
Upon application of A. E. Pearson, R. R. Bell, Susie
Shaw, Georgia Darby, Mrs. John Mounts, Henry G.
Beard, and the Silver Moon Oil Company, claimants of
certain tracts or parcels of land purchased by Fred Capshaw from the United States of America under patent
dated February 17, 1920;
It is ordered that the Receiver be and he is hereby authorized and directed to sink a well for oil and gas upon
the land described in said patent at such place as the
Receiver shall select, provided said applicants -hall pay
in advance from time to time as required the cost and
expense of sinking the same and bringing it into production. The said well shall be operated by the Receiver
as he operates wells on other lands in the river-bed area,
and he shall conserve and dispose of the proceeds of the
oil and gas as in the case of wells on other lands in the
river-bed area, and shall reimburse the said Pearson,
et al., out of the net proceeds for the moneys so advanced and paid by them for drilling the well and
bringing it into production; the remainder of such
proceeds to be retained by him subject to the order of
the court.

OKLAHOMA v. TEXAS.
602.

Orders.

Directing the Receiver to sink an oil and gas well on land
claimed by Eoff,. with proisions as to expenses, operation,
and disposition of proceeds.
Upon motion of Luther Eoff, claiming to be owner of
an oil and gas lease upon a certain tract of 500 acres of
land described in his motion, situate on the flood plain
on the south side of Red River, in Range 15 West;
It is ordered that the Receiver be and he is hereby
authorized and directed to sink a well for oil and gas
upon the land described in said motion at such place as
the Receiver shall select, provided said applicant shall
pay in advance from time to time as required the cost.
and expense of sinking the same and bringing it into production. The said well shall be operated by the Receiver
as he operates wells on lands in the river-bed area, and he
shall conserve and dispose of the proceeds of the oil and
gas as in the case of wells on lands in the river-bed area,
and shall reimburse the said Eoff out of the net proceeds
for the moneys so advanced and paid by him for drifling
the well and bringing it into production; the remeinder
of such proceeds to be retained by the Receiver subject
to the order of the court.
Appointing a Special Master to hear and report upon
claims of Armstrong, et al., to certain moneys held by the
Receiver.
Upon motion of J. R. Armstrong, et al., and upon the
assent of the Receiver, it appearing that the Receiver has
in his hands a iund of approximately Fifty thousand
dollars, being part of the proceeds derived by him from
the production of Receiver's Wells Nos. 157, 162, and 170,
operated by him for said Armstrong and for one C. J.
Benson, under whom he claims by assignment;
It is ordered that Frederick S. Tyler, Esq., be and he is
hereby appointed a special master to hear and report to
this court for determination the claim of said J. P. Arm-

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Orders.

256 U.S.

strong to have said fund turned over to him as purchaser
of said wells; and said master shall hear and report on said
claim and on all other claims that may be presented against
said fund.
Said master shall have authority to issue process of
subpcena to compel the attendance of witnesses, and it
shall be his duty to give notice to all parties concerned,
to fix the time and place of hearing, and adjourn the same
from time to time if necessary; and he shall report all the
evidence taken, together with his findings of fact, conclusions of law, and recommendation in the premises, for
the ultimate consideration and action of this court.
If for any reason the said Frederick S. Tyler, Esq., shall
be unable to act as such special master, or to complete
his duties as such, a special master to act in his place shall
be named by the Chief Justice or the senior Associate
Justice of this Court.
Limiting delomaet work, and directing the Reever to

corc owd and impound part of gross proceeds of gas,
a&ri for, exmine and settle daims, and make report of
thos unsetted.

Upon considering the Fifth Report of the Receiver, filed
herein May 26, 1921, it is ordered:
(1) That until further order all development work by
the Receiver (except as prescribed in certain other orders
made this day) shall be confined to the completion of the
wells in the river-bed area, about twelve in number, work

upon which already has been begun.
(2) That the Receiver be and he is hereby authorized
and directed to collect, withhold, and impound threesixteenths of the gross proceeds of gas produced by wells
within the receivership area from and after June 1, 1921.
(3) That the Receiver be and he is hereby authorized
to publish a notice in four daily newspapers, two circulating in Texas and two circulating in Oklahoma, to be

OKLAHOMA V. TEXAS.
602.

Orders.

selected by him, requesting all persons having claims
against the Receiver or against the property or funds in
his custody to present the same to the Receiver within
60 days from the date of publication of such notice, accompanying their statements of claim xith supporting
affidavits and certified or sworn copies of any documentary
evidence upon which they may rely; and the Receiver
is directed to examine and investigate said claims and
supporting evidence, and he is hereby authorized to settle
and discharge the same if he can do so upon a fair and
equitable basis; and as to any not so adjusted and settled
he shall make a full report. to this court at its next. Term
for such further action as the court may deem proper.
Setting down cause for hearing on special issues raised
between the United States and private parties claiming
riparianland on the north bank of Red River, and placer
mining locations, and between Oklahoma and the United
States concerning school sections; and on the claims of all
other interveners claiming lands on north bank or placer
mining locations; and appointing a commissioner to take
and report evidence.
It appearing that special issues have been joined in this
cause (1) upon the intervening petition of E. Everitt
Rowell, claimant of riparian land on the north bank of
Red River, and the answer thereto of the United States
embodied in Paragraph II of its amended petition of intervention; (2) upon the intervening petition of A. E. Pearson, R. R. Bell, Susie Shaw, Georgia Darby, Mrs. John
Mounts, Henry G. Beard, and the Silver .Moon Oil Company, claimants of riparian lands on north bank of Red
River, and the answer thereto of the United States embodied in Paragraph II of its amended petition of intervention; (3) upon the amended petition of intervention
of the Burk Divide Oil Company (Consolidated) and
others, placer mining claimants, and the answer of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Ordem

256 -. S.

United States thereto embodied in Paragraph HI of its
amended petition of intervention; (4) upon the petition
of intervention of the Mellish Consolidated Placer Oil
Mining Association, a placer mining claimant, and the
answer thereto of the United States embodied in Paragraph M of its amended petition of intervention; (5) and
as between the State of Oklahoma and the United States
as to the school sections abutting on Red River owned by
said State, in respect to which it claims by riparian right
the entire bed of Red River to the south bank, as said
claim is set up in the original bill of said State and answered
by the United States in Paragraph II, sub-paagraph 10,
of its amended petition of intervention:
It is ordered that this cause be and it is hereby set down
for hearing as to said special issues, and as to the claims
of any and all other interveners herein who may claim
riparian lands on the north bank of Red River or placer
mining locations under the mining laws of the United
States, on the seventeenth day of October, A. D., nineteen hundred and twenty-one.
Frederick S. Tyler, Esq., of Washington, D. C., is
hereby appointed as commissioner to take the evidence
of the said respective parties with respect to said issues
and claims, and report the same to the court, but without
findings or conclusions. Said evidence shall be taken
and closed on or before July thirtieth, 1921. The evidence
as to all said issues and claims shall be embodied in one
record, but the evidence as to each issue or claim shall
be set forth separately so far as practicable. Subject to
the time fixed for closing said evidence, the time and place
for commencing and proceeding with the taking of testimony, and the order in which the different matters shall
be taken up, may be fixed by agreement of the parties, or in
ease of disagreement shall be fixed by the commissioner.
If for any reason the said Frederick S. Tyler shall be
unable to act as such commissioner, or to complete his

OKLAHOMA v. TEXAS.
602.

Orders.

duties as such, a commissioner to act in his place shall be
named by the Chief Justice or the senior Associate Justice
of this Court.
Order on the District Judge for the Northern District of
Texas to show cause why he should not be prohibited from
entertainingan action againstthe Receiver.
It appearing from the Fifth Report made by Frederic
A. Delano, the Receiver heretofore appointed by th's
court in the above stated cause, that an action recently
was commenced against him in the United States District
Court for the Northern District of Texas by the Casa Oil
Company to recover damages for the alleged conversion
of certain personal property claimed by said Casa Oil
Company and alleged to have been seized and appropriated by said Receiver; and that a citation has been issued
by said court commanding said Receiver to appear in said
cause and make answer to the petition therein at the next
regular term of said court, to be held on the twenty-first
day of November, A. D. 1921;
It is ordered that the Honorable James C. Wilson, Judge
of the said United States District Court for the Northern
District of Texas, do show cause before this court, at
the Capitol in Washington, in the District of Columbia,
on the seventeenth day of October, A. D. 1921, why a writ
of prohibition should not be issued commanding him to
desist from further entertaining jurisdiction of said cause.
Authorizing the Recei er to make certain payments reimbursing operators and drilers of wells.
It is ordered that Frederic A. Delano, Receiver, be and
he is hereby authorized, in his discretion, out of thirteensixteenths of the net proceeds of any well or wells in the
river-bed area (other than the well known as the Burk
Senator) paid to him since April first 1920, to reimburse
to those operators or drillers who had drilled and brought

OCTOBER TERLM, 1920.

Interlocutory Decree.

256 U. S.

into production such well or wells, their actual cost of such
work, including a reasonable allowance for field supervision, but excluding any allowance for general or office
supervision, and after deducting a proper allowance for
the yield derived by them from such well or wells prior to
the taking possession of the same by the Receiver.

Interlocutory Deree declaring the boundary in question
to be along the south bank of Red River; seting down ause
for hearing as to its more definite location; directing as to

use of evidence taken and the taking of further eidence, and
appointinga co " "nsmoner.
This court having on the seventh day of June, 1920, set
this cause down for hearing upon specified questions of
law, the hearing having been had, and the court having
considered of the matter, and having announced its opinion
and conclusion on April 11, 1921 [ante, p. 701:
It is ordered, adjudged and decreed that according to
the Treaty of 1819 between the United States and Spain,
as heretofore examined and construed by this court in
the case of United States v. Texas, 162 U. S.1, the decree
in which is conclusive upon the parties to this cause, the
true boundary between the State of Oklahoma and the
State of Texas where it follows the course of the Red
River from the 100th degree of west longitude to the
eastern boundary of the State of Oklahoma is along the
south bank of Red River. And as it still needs to be

determined between the State of Oklahoma, Complainant,
and the United States of America, Intervener, on the one
hand, and the State of Texas, on the other hand, as to
what constitutes the south bank of Red River, as to where
along that bank the true boundary line is, and as to the
proper mode of locating the same upon the ground
It is, on motion of the State of Oklahoma, concurred in
by the State of Texas and the United States of America,
ordered that this cause be set down for hearing upon

OKLAHOMA v. TEXAS.
602.

Interlocutory Decree.

those questions on the ninth day of January, A. D.,
1922.
And it is ordered that upon said hearing the parties
shall be at liberty to refer to and use the evidence heretofore taken and returned in this cause so far as applicable
to said question, without the necessity of re-publication
or reprinting; and they shall proceed to take such further
evidence as they may desire relating, among other things,
to the characteristics and regimen of Red River, the
physical conditions along the same, any substantial
changes that may have occurred since the Treaty by
avulsions, relictions, erosions, accretions, or other natural
causes, and the practical construction and application of
the Treaty of 1819 by the governments and States concerned and their inhabitants.
Frederick S. Tyler, Esq., of Washington, D. C., is hereby
appointed as commissioner to take said further evidence
and report the same to the court, but without findings or
conclusions; and if for any reason said Frederick S. Tyler
shall be unable to act as such commissioner, or to complete his duties as such, a commissioner, to act in his
place shall be named by the Chief Justice or the senior
Associate Justice of this Court.
Subject to the limitations hereinafter imposed, the
times and places of taking such testimony, and the order
of taking the same, may be fixed by stipulation of the
parties, and, if they shall fail to stipulate, shall be fixed
by the commissioner. The taking of testimony shall
commence not later than the fifteenth day of August,
1921, and shall be concluded on or before the twentyninth day of October following. Unless the parties otherwise stipulate, the evidence in chief on the part of the
United States shall be presented first, that on the part of
the State of Oklahoma next, and that on the part of the
State of Texas next; and the rebuttal evidence of the
respective parties shall be presented in the same order.

OCTOBER TERIM, 1920.
Syllabus.

256 U. S.

The hearing on the counterclaim of the State of Texas,
and the taking of testi

ony thereon, is reserved for

further order.
Porbiddin filing of petitions in interventio wilkout
It iwordered that no petition in intervention may hereafter be filed herein under the order of June 7, 1920, except
upon special leave given by the court.

[253 U. S. 470.1

MISSOURI, KANSAS & TEXAS RAILWAY COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM TM COURT OF CLAIM.
No. S

lulmitted Apil 26, 1921.-Decided June 6, 1921.

1. After a railr
company had entered into a contract to carry the
mails with mtice that it would be subject to all postal laws and
regulations which were or might become applicable during the term
of the service and that the adjustment of compensation based on
wighings of the mails carried during 90 working days was subjec to further orders, as well as fines and deductions, it discontinued
Rn important trm and thereby occasioned a diversion of part of
ihe mails to other lines; the Post Office Department, upon the authority of the Act of August 24, 1912, c. 389, 37 Stat. 539, enacted
after the contract was entered into, weighed the diverted mails for
21 days and readjusted the compensation accordingly. ,Held, that
such readjustment did not violate the contract although it diminished
the compensation, and in part retroactively. P. 613. Dedawmre,
La-&awmma & Western R. R. Co. v. United States, 249 U. S. 385;
Mail Diisor Cases, 251 U. S. 326.
2. The Act of 1912, supra, allows the readjustment to be made after

a weighing of the diverted mails only, and the proviso (since repealed) that they must equal ten per cent "of the average daily

