OCTODBER TERM, 1920
256 U. S.

Syllabu.

to transmit, or on the transmision at its beginning,
obviously it attaches to the whole estate except so far as
the statute sets a limit. "Charges against the estate"
as pointed out by the Court below are only charges that
affect the estate as a whole, and therefore do not include

taxes on the right of individual beneficiaries.

This

reasoning excludes not only the New York succession
tax but those paid to other States, which can stand no
better than that paid in 'New York. What amount New
York may take as the basis of taxation and questions of
priority between the United States and the State are
not open in this case.

Decree affim~e4.

AMERICAN BANK & TRUST COMPANY ET AL v.
FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF ATLANTA,
GEORGIA, ET AL
APPEAL FROM TM

CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEAL8 FOR ThE
FIFMh CIRCUIT.

No. 679.

Argued April 13, 14, l9l.-cided May 16, 1921.

1. A suit against a Federal Reserve Bank and its officers, hdd a suit
arising under a law of the United States within the meaning of §24,

eL 1, of the Judicial Code, such banks being cmatures of the Fedemi
Reserve Act. P. 356.
2. A Federal Reserve Bank is not a national banking assodation
within §24, d. 16, of the Judicial Code, which declares that such
associations, for the purpose of suing and being sued, shall (exept
in certain cases) be deemed ctizens of the States where they are
located. P. 357.

3. Several country banks of Georgia alleged that they derived an
important part of their income from charges on payment of checis
drawn by their depositors when seat in, usually through other banks,

from a di-tance; that banks of the Federal Reerve System we

AMER. BANK & TRUST CO. v. FEDERAL BANK. 351
350.

Aummt for Appellee.

foIiddem to make such charges; and that the defadMant Federal
Reserve Bank and its offices,n punsae o a policy of the Federal
Rmerve Board, for the purpose of rmpel tg the plaintiffs and l&

bmnks to bemNe members of the system, or to opn cleari acoets
with the defendant, (which would depriv them of the aforsaid
dlargem, rmite that leding power, and drive s
of them out of
bmsine), intaided to accumulate such checks in Ia* amoun'a
and thim require cos payment at par by presentation over the
counter or otherwise so as to compel plaintiffs to maintin so much
cash in their vaults that they must either give up busines or sub-

mit, if able, to the ddemdat's scheme. Hed, that the bill stated
a caine for an iniunetiam
269 Fed. Rep. 4, revere.

P. 357.

Aww&L. from a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
affirming a decree of the District Court, dismissing, for
want of equity, a bill brought by divers state ban]s
against a Federal Reserve Bank and its officers for an
inc n . The facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Akmw W. & &%,
with whom Mr. T. M. tmne ,
Mr. OrilZe A. Park and Mr. Grae F. Jomonw were on
the briefs, for appeflants.
Mr. Robet S Parker and Mr. Ho ns N. Randlph

for appellees:
The Federal Reserve Banks have the right under the
Federal Reserve Act to undertake, if so directed or au-

thorized by the Federal Reserve Board, to accept checks
and drafts payable upon presentation, upon whatever
bank drawn. That basic right is subtantiated by the
term of the law itself.
If this clearing of checkm be undertaken, it must be
carried out in a manner permitted by law.
The provision of the Federal Reserve Act that no
chmrges made by a bank for collection or payment of
decks and drafts, and remission
eor, by exchange
or otherwme, shall be made against the Federal Reserve

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Argument for Appelees.

256 U. S.

Banks, clearly makes illegal the payment by defendant
of such charges undertaken to be exacted by the payee
bank for the "service" of remitting by mail.
If the Reserve Bank be prohibited from paying such
charges, and if the payee bank refuse to forego the same,
the Reserve Banks must collect in some other way, or
else deny the business and commerce of the country the par
collection of checks to which it is, at the option of the
Reserve Banks, entitled.
The only methods for collecting checks, other than
through a clearing house or through the mails, involve a
presentation over the counter of the bank upon which
the check is drawn. In this there is nothing illegal,
unusual or untoward.
It follows, that if the non-member banks are entitled
to the relief prayed, the result will be to balk the holder
of any check, drawn upon a non-member or a non-clearing
bank, in the exercise of his right to have the same cleared
or paid through an agent of his own choice. If the holder
of such a check wishes to avail himself of the collection
service of a bank which may be a member of the Federal
Reserve System, and if the machinery through which the
member bank- operates to clear checks be the Federal
Reserve System, and if the Federal Reserve Bank be
prohibited by the court's writ of injunction from collecting
the check, in the only way lawful to it under the Reserve
Act., the practical effect is to allow the payee bank to utilize the payment of such checks for its own aggrandizement, at the expense. of te business and commercial
interests of the country.
This bill should have been dismissed, because there is no
basis therein laid for the relief in equity prayed. An injunction is asked against the commission of acts fundamentally
and unquestionably legal, and it is to the substance of a
bill that the court must look and not to the conclusions
attempted to be predicated upon the averments of fact.

AMER. BANK & TRUST CO. P. FEDERAL BANK. 353
350.

Argament for Appelees

If acts done be lawful, the courts cannot inquire into
the motive, even conceding for the purpose of this argument that. the motives of the defendants might be
criticized. It would be an absurd proposition, for instance, to say that a mortgagee with the mortgage debt
in default, could be prevented from foreclosing the mortgage because of his desire to see ill fortune visited on the
MortPgor.

The vague charges of compulsion and coercion designed
to force the plaintiffs to join the Federal Reserve System
are conclusions pure and simple, and cannot be maintained or supported by any allegation of fact contained
in the bill. A threat to do a lawful thing which might
deplete to some extent the profits of a bank adds no
element of actionable wrong. It is no part of the duty
of any financial institution so to conduct its affairs as to

waive or forego legal rights in order that another institution may realize the maximum of profit from the conduct
of its business. There is no injury in contemplation of

law in those cases where the party who is alleged to have
inflicted damage has inflicted such damage as an incident
in and to the exercise on his part of a complete legal right.
It is a novel conception of "property " to regard it as
embracing the "right " to make a profit upon a service
which is not rendered. It is equally novel to conceive of
an unlawful deprivation of property rights as being
acomplished simply by abstaining from the invoking of
a service for the rendition of which, ii rendered, the party
" deprived" would be entitled to a profitable compensation. Tanenbaumv. New York FireInsuranceExchange,
68 N. Y. S. 342.
We respectfully submit that the doctrie of sic utere
tuo ut alienem non Wmas has no application. To carry
out the policy of Congress, as embodied in the Federal
Reserve Act, the actuating motive in so doing being to
observe the letter and spirit of said act, and not to inflict

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Argument for Appelles.

256 U. S.

injury upon appellants, does not constitute a use of one's
own property in such manner as to injure the rights or
property of another.
A person only incidentally affected has no right to
complain of an ultra vires act. National Bank v. Matthews,
98 U. S. 621. But, regardless of whether the appellants
would have the right to enjoin the commission of an
act by the appellee bank upon the ground that it entailed an unauthorised expenditure of its funds, this bank
unquestionably has the charter right and corporate
capacity to pay the expense of employing a messenger
or agent to make collection of checks upon personal
presentation. There is no merit in the contention that
because a Reserve Bank is prohibited by law from paying "exchange" charges exacted by banks to cover the
"service " of remitting for checks and drafts, therefore,
the prohibition extends to the incurring of any expense
in and about such collection.
The legislative history of §§ 13 ad 16 of the Federal
Reserve Act supports our contention that the underlying purpose of this legislation, with successive amendments designed to facilitate clearing, was to protect the
clearing house established by the Federal Reserve Board,
and not to prohibit Federal Reserve Banks from incurring
such expenses in connection with the collection of checks
as are not expressly prohibited in and by the specific
terms of the statute. It follows, therefore, that. there
is nothing illogical in the position of the Federal Reserve
Board and of the defendants in this case, viz: that. they
cannot, under the law, pay charges to a payee bank for
remittances on account of checks and drafts drawn upon
the bank undertaking to make the charge, but may
legally pay the charges of an agent employed for personal
presentation. To pay such "exchange " charges to a
bank would be destructive of universal par clearanceto compensate an agent who may collect checks by per-

-AMER BANK & TRUST CO. v. FEDERAL BANK. 355

350.

Ophnia of th Court.

sonal presentation is in aid of the extension of these clearing functions, and not destructive thereof.
The SolicitorGae a and Mr. Water S. Logan, by leave
curei.
of court, filed a brief as aima
MJL Juvrxcz Houis delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a bill in equity brought by country banks incor-

porated by the State of Georgia against the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, incorporated -under the laws of
the United States, and its officers. It was brought in a
State Court but removed to the District Court of the
United States on the petition of the defendants. A
motion to remand was made by the plaintiffs but was
overruled. The allegations ot the bill may be summed up
in comparatively few words. The plaintiffs are not
members of the Federal Reserve System and many of
them have too small a capital to permit their joining ita capital that could not be increased to the required
amount in the thinly populated sections of the country
where they operate. An important part of the income
of these small institutions is a charge for the services rendered by them in paying checks drawn upon them at a
distance and forwarded, generally by other banks, through
the mail. The charge covers the expense incurred by the
paying bank and a small profit. The banks in the Federal
Reserve System are forbidden to make such charges to
other banks in the System. Federal Reserve Act of
December 23, 1913, c. 6, § 13, 38 Stat. 263; amended
March 3, 1915, c. 93, 38 Stat. 958; September 7, 1916, c.
461, 39 Stat. 752; and June 21, 1917, c. 32, §§ 4, 5,40
Stat. 234, 235. It is alleged that in pursuance of a policy
accepted by the Federal Reserve Board the defendant
bank has determined to use its power to compel the plaintiffs and others in like situation to become member, of

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opiniofo the Cort.

2.6 U.8.

the defendant, or at least to open a non-member clearing
account with defendant, and thereby, under the defendant's requirements, to make it necessary for the plaintiffs
to maintain a much larger reserve than in their present
condition they need. This diminution of their lending
power coupled with the loss of the profit caused by the
above mentioned clearing of bank checks and drafts at
par will drive some of the. plaintiffs out of business and
diminish the income of all. To accomplish the defendants'
wish they intend to accumulate checks upon the country
banks until they reach a large amount and then to cause
them to be presented for payment over the counter or by
other devices detailed to require payment in cash in such
wise as to compel the plaintiffs to maintain so much cash
in their vaults as to drive them out of business or force
them, if able, to submit to the defendants' scheme. It
is alleged that the proposed conduct will deprive the
plaintiffs of their property without due process of law
contrary to the constitution of Georgia and that it
is ultra vitea. The bill seeks an injunction against
the defendants collecting checks except in the usual
way. The District Court dismissed the bill for want of
equity and its decree was afirmed by the Circuit Court of
Appeals. 269 Fed. Rep. 4. The plaintiffs appealed, setting
up want of jurisdiction in the District Court and error
in the final decree.
We agree with the Court below that the removal was
proper. The principal defendant was incorporated under
the laws of the United States and that has been established
as a ground of jurisdiction since Oaborm v. Bank of the
United States, 9 Wheat. 738. Pactf Railroad Removal
Case, 115 U. S. 1. Mater of Dunn, 212 U. S. 374. We
shall say but a word in answer to the appellants' argument that a suit against such a corporation is not a suit
arising under those laws within 124 of the Judicial Code
of MIarch 3, 1911, c. 231, 36 Stat. 1087. The contrary is

AR

39L

BANK & TRUST

0. v. FEDERAL BANK. 357

Olinlo doUr OMLt

ah~kedand the accepted doctrine i. inteligible at
hmst one it ispart of the plaintf ewe that the ddendant bank existed and exist a an imlty cap"bl of
eomitting tme WEln alleged and of being sud. Thme
faets depqnd upn the ms of the Unied Stes Bank=
Trust Co. v. Tmrn & Padcf* Ry. CO., 241 U. S. 295, W06,
3N. Te=asiiPadfxcE. Co. v. Cat,~ 16U. ELO60 Bee
furtIer &ml v. Kam Cit MW & Trus Co., 255 U. &
-M6. A more pbosible objection is that by the Judicial
Codse, I4K ixteenth, enmt as therein excepted nabonda
banking amociatiam for the purposs of suts agnst;
tlpm wm to he deemned "in.- of the State-In which
they se rewevey located. But we agree with thi
Otmrt below that the ressom for localizig ordinmy

communcial ints do not apply to tihe Federal Reserve;
Bmks created aftr the JudicW.Code was macted indi
that the phrass "8natima banking IBIzais " does,
not reach frward and
lde m. That phrase is

used to descib the-r
the oth
Ihii&"

e M7 1

m comeria banks wherea
Cse

"Fedal Rem!

We see no mflfiimt ground for s

Cogrs meant to -opm the qusm

that'

that the other

On time
we ae of opinion that the Court below
weut too far. Tihe qucelim at thi stde isnot what the
plaintft may be able to prove, or what may be the reasonale Iterpetation of the ddendants! ats, but whether
the plaintiffs have dmown a ground for reied if they can

prove what they alle
We lay an one side as not necesmry to our deson the quntio of the defendants'

p awn% and am um th

they wL t hi thmr co

er

only whether the m that according to the bm they intend to nak of than wil infringe thme plaintiffa rights.
The ddamdants my that 4he holder of a c

k has a right

to pM it to the bank upom which it was drwn for
lpsent over the counter, and that however many cheeks

OCTOBER TER,

1920.

Opinionof the Court.

256 U.

he may hold he has the same right as to all of them and
may present them all at once, whatever his motive or
intent. They ask whether a mortgagee would be prevented from foreclosing because he acted from disinterested malevolence and not from a desire to get his money.
But the word "right " is one of the most deceptive of pitfalls; it is so easy to slip from a qualified meaning in the
premise to an unqualified one in the conclusion. Most
rights are qualified. A man has at least as absolute a
right to give his own money as he has to demand money
from a party that has made no promise to him; yet if he
gives it to induce another to steal or murder the purpose
of the act makes it a crime.
A bank that receives deposits to be drawn upon by
cheek of course authorizes its depositors to draw checks
against their accounts and holders of such checks to
present them for payment. When we think of the ordinary
case the right of the holder is so unimpeded that it seems
to us absolute. But looked at from either side it cannot
be so. The interests of business also are recognized as
rights, protected against injury to a greater or less extent,
and in case of conflict between the claims of business on
the one side and of third persons on the other lines have
to be drawn that limit both. A man has a right to give
advice, but advice given for the sole purpose of injuring
another's business and effective on a large scale, might
create a cause of action. Banks as we know them could
not exist if they could not rely upon averages and lend a
large part of the money that they receive from their depositors on the assumption that not more than a certain
fraction of it will be demanded on any one day. If without
a word of falsehood but acting from what we have called
disinterested malevolence a man by persuasion should
organize and carry into effect a run upon a bank and
ruin it, we cannot doubt that an action would lie. A
similar result even if less complete in its effect is to be

HIULLKR v. MEM~S

expected from the course that the ddendants are alleged
to intend, and to determine whether they are authorized
to follow that course it is not enough to refer to the general
olfdercheci to present theni but it is necesright of a
sary to consider whether the collection of cheeks and
p
than in a body for the purpose of breaking
down the plamnWWh business as now conducted is Ju

fe

by the ulterior purpoe in view.
If this were a aeof competitn in private busincs it
would be hard to
the justification of fl-interest
eouidering the now current opinion as to public policy
xpzmed in statutes and decisions. But this is not private
The policy of the Federal Reserve Bank is
bunine
gwvwed by the policy of the United States with regard
to thm and to thuie relatively feeble competitors. We"
do not need aid from the debates pon the statute under
wbich the Revme Beam exist to ame that the United
States did not intusdby that statute to sanction this ortd wefae upon legitimate creatmos of the States.

HEiTMUIJE V.STOKlE.
Nina

TO 91ME

COURT

OF APPNB OF IM

DJIICT OF

COIJUJM

N& V&

dA l 2

, .
A

i.-DesHd May 16, 1021.

1e. dedauat in wmmhavig mudn jumdgmt for the pcinm
to a suanger, after the am had
of hk red estte, mld the Ian
bem rved
'o tk curt by wvt of enw, Imving the defaeidat
impmman.
thlwomokoW m aied betwem &e,
1111160116
- I tGod th-k P.n woWuld nt decide tie me'ite,

