OCTOBER TERM, 192D.
Syllabus.

258 U. s.

Traverse or the Bois de Sioux River and the benefit conferred by the improvement.
It is further ordered that testimony shall be taken
sufficient to advise the Court as to the flood conditions
which have prevailed, since the filing of the bill herein,
in the area claimed to have been flooded by the action
of the State of Minnesota.
Before the taking of the testimony on the subject above
referred to and the resubmission of the cause the Court
will entertain a motion in this case and the case of The
State of South Dakota v. The State of Minnesota, No. 15,
Original, to consolidate that case with this if counsel are
so advised, to the end that the possibility may be considered of alleviating flood conditions in Lake Traverse
and along the Bois de Sioux River by other means than
the injunction prayed for in that case and to permit
South Dakota to take testimony at the hearing now
ordered in this case.

NICKEL ET AL, AS TRUSTEES, &c., ET AL v.
COLE, AS STATE CONTROLLER OF THE
STATE OF NEVADA.
NICKEL ET AL., AS TRUSTEES, &c., ET AL v.
STATE OF NEVADA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COuT OF THE STATE OF
NEVADA.
No. 268 269.

Argued March 24, 1921.-Decided April 25, 1921.

1. Remamder interests which vested after a state Unuder tax law
was approved but before the time when, as construed by the state

Supreme Court, it became eective, but which n

were

NICKEL v. COLF.
222.

Opinion of the Court.

subjected to it by that court upon the theory that the vesting
actually occurred after it became effective, are not to be regarded
as taxed thereby in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment, (een

assuming that such a tax may not be laid retroactively), since the
law might have been made applicable before the interests vested.
P. 224.
2. A deision of a state court made upon grounds having no rdation to

any federal question and without purpose to evade a federal issue,
will be accepted by this court, whether right or wrong, when the
case comis here for review. P. 225.
43 Nevada, 12, affirmed; petition for writ of certiorari denied.

ERRoR to review judgments of the Supreme Court of
Nevada sustaining taxes laid under the state transfer
tax act upon remainder interests claimed to have vested
before the effective date of the statute. The facts are
stated in the opinion.
Mr. Bdrd PTadwdl,
F.
.with whom Mr. Azro X.
Cheney was on the brief, for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. Leonard B. Fowler, Attorney General of the State
of Nevada, with whom Mr. Robert Ricards and Mr.
Win. C. Prentim were on the brief, for defendants in error.
Mr. Garret W. McBnerney, by leave of court, filed a
brief as awiuew curiw
Mn. JusrIcz HoLiW

delivered the opinion of the court.

The first of these suits was brought by the Controller
of Nevada to collect a transfer tax alleged to be due
under a statute of Nevada approved on March 26, 1913,
to take effect thirty days from that date. Nevada Stats.
of 1913, c. 266, p. 411. The second suit was brought to
quiet title to the shares of stock in respect of which the
tax was assessed-to establish that there was no lien upon
or claim against them for the tax. The two cases were

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

heard together in the state courts and here upon the same
facts. The Supreme Court of Nevada held that the tax
was due and decided in favor of the State. The parties
on the other side had set up and claimed immunity under
the Constitution of the United States, especially the
Fourteenth Amendment, and brought the cases here by
writ of error. By way of caution they also filed a petition for certiorari which has not yet been passed upon
by this Court.
The facts are these: Henry Miller, a resident of California, was the owner of 119,875.75 shares of the stock
of Miller & Lux, Incorporated, a Nevada corporation.
Miller & Lux, Inc., owned the stock of the Pacific Live
Stock Company, a California corporation, and the latter
owned real estate and personal property in Nevada appraised at $1,431,326.86. On April 17, 1913, after the
above mentioned statute had been passed but before it
went into operation, Miller in California made a will,
and at the same time a deed of trust conveying his stock
to the plaintiffs in error, in trust for himself for life and
after his death upon limitations similar to those in his
will-any payment under the will to be in satisfaction
of the provisions both in the will and in the deed. The
deed contained no power of revocation. The stock was
endorsed and delivered to the trustees and thereafter
was retained by them. Miller died on October 14, 1916.
The statute imposes a tax upon the transfer of all property which shall pass in trust or otherwise by will or by
statutes of inheritance or by deed or gift made without
valuable and adequate consideration in contemplation
of the death of the grantor or donor, or to take effect in
possession or enjoyment at. or after such death.
The plaintiffs in error admit that if the statute had
been in operation at the time of the transfer the tax would
have been due, so that it is not necessary to go into further particulars about the act. But they say that the

NICKEL v. COLE.
2Opinin

Of the CouWL

interest of the remaindermen after the death of Miller
vested upon the execution of the deed and that therefore the statute did not apply to them, and could not do
so consistently with the Constitution of the United States.
We shall not discuss the postulate of the argument
for the plaintiffs in error-the notion that a tax upon
transfers imposed by a statute passed after the transfern had taken place would be void. In this case the
statute was passed before the date of the deed of trust
and therefore undeniably could have been drawn so as
to tax the transaction. Reading as it did it possibly
might have been construed as doing so, notwithstanding
the postponement of the date for its going into operation,
and so construed would have been good as against constitutional objections.
But the plaintiffs in error say that what we pronounce
possible is not what the Supreme Court of Nevada did.
The Supreme Court of Nevada seems to have conceded
that if the interest of those who took upon Miller's death
was vested when the deed was delivered the statute did
not and perhaps could not apply. They reached the
result by holding that the execution of the deed and will
was one transaction and gave no vested right until Miller's death. Thereupon the plaintiffs in error say that
the above limitation to the statute being admitted the
State Court could not avoid the supposed constitutional
difficulty by assuming a view of the instrument that is
deemed to be plainly untenable, as held by the Chief Justice dissenting, and contrary to the law of California
where the parties lived and the transfer was made. Nicke v. State, 179 California, 126. But the answer to this
is that when as here there can be no pretence that the
Court adopted its view in order to evade a constitutional
issue, and the case has been decided upon grounds that
have no relation to any federal question, this Court accepts the decision whether right or wrong. Enkerprwe

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Syllabus.

256 U. .

Irrigato Distrit v. FarmersMutual Canal Co., 243 U. S.
157, 164. And when, as here, the statute unquestionably
might have made the tax applicable to this transfer, we
do not inquire very curiously into the reasoning by which
the statute is held to justify the tax. "As there was
state power to tax . . . the question whether or not
the interest [of the plaintiffs in error] under the circumstances was correctly subjected to the tax was a purely
state question." Moffia v. Kelly, 218 U. S. 400, 405.
The plaintiffs in error contend that this Court is "coneerned. . . solely with the effect and operation of the
law as put in force by the State." Corn Products Rfining Co. v. Eddy, 249 U. S. 427, 432. The operation of

the law if construed to cover this case infringes no constitutional rights
Judgments ajlrmned.
Writs of Cerfioraridenie.
Mu. Jwric
MEL Jumic
this case.

McKNNA dissents.
CL&mx took no part in the decision of

ST. LOUIS-SAN FRANCISCO RAILWAY COMPANY
v. MIDDLEKAMP, STATE TREASURER OF THE
STATE OF MISSOURI, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DMTRICT COURT OF THE UNIED STATES
FOR THE VESTRN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
No. 636. Argued March 2, 3, 1921.-Decided May 2, 1921.

1. The question whether the Amiouri law laying on corporations
an annual franchise tax of a percentage of their capital stock and
surplus employed in the State (Laws 1917, pp. 237-242) lacks

