OC OBER TERM, 1920.
Syfmams

256 U. &

BOWMAN, ATTORNEY GENERAL OF THE STATE
OF NEW MEXICO, ET AL v. CONTINENTAL
OIL COMPANY.
A"EAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNIM

SrATES

FOR THE DIRM CT OF NiW MEXICO.
No. 096. Argued April 14, 1921.-Decided June 6, 1921.
A statute of New Mexico (Laws 1919, c. 93, p. 182), applicaile
to dis ibuters of gasoline, imposes an excise of 2 cents for each
gallon sold or used, and an annual license tax of 50.00, paya"e
in advance, for each distributing station, place of busness or agency;
and makes it a penal offense to carry on the business without paying
the license tax. Held:-.
(1) That the excise provision, assaming it intended to inelde both
interstate and domestic transactions, is not therefire void in Jo in
its application to a distributer egaged in both, dce, the su"tmatter being separable. full protction can be afforded by enjoining
enforcement as to the interstate busines. P. 640.
(2) But that the license tax, falling with its prolibito upon the
buins as a whole, cannot constitutionally be applied where intestate and intrastate business necessarily are conducted indisaiminately at ihe same stations and by the same agencies. P. 647.
(3) That gasoline imported by the distributer from another State
but wed in the conduct of its business, loses its interstate character
and may be subjected to the excise, consistently with the Commerce
CaMe. P. 648.
(4) That the tax upon the use is not a tax on tangible property, within
the meaning of 11 of Article VIII of the New Mexico constitution,
but in affect, as in name, an excise tax, and conforms to the requirement of that section that taxes shall be equal and uniform upon
subjects of taxation of the same class. P. 649.
(5) 'The excise tax, as applied to local sale and use of gasoline by a
distrlbuter, is consistent with the due proces and equal protection
clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 6J&
Reversed
THz

e

is stated in the opinion.

BOWMAN v. CONTINENTAL OIL CO.
Opinion of the Court.

642.

Mr. Harry S. Bowman, Attorney General of the State
of New Mexico, with whom Mr. A. B. Renehan was on
the brief, for appellants.
Mr. Charles R. Brock and Mr. E. R. Wright, with whom
Mr. Stephen B. Davis, Jr., Mr. Milton Smith, Mr. W. H.
Ferguson and Mr. Elmer L. Brock were on the briefs, for
appellee.
MR.

JUSTICE

PITNEY delivered the opinion of the court.

This suit was brought by the Continental Oil Company
against the Attorney General and certain other officials
of the State of New Mexico to restrain the enforcement
against the company, a distributor of and dealer in
gasoline and other petroleum products in that State,. of the
provisions of an act of the Legislature (Laws New Mexico,
1919, c. 93, p. 182) imposing an excise tax of 2 cents for
each gallon of gasoline sold or used, and an annual license
tax of $50 for each distributing station or place of business.
The case was here before under the name of Askren v.
Continental Oil Co., 252 U. S. 444, on review of an order
of the District Court (three judges sitting) granting a
temporary injunction. It is now here for review of the
final decree; and Mr. Askren's term as Attorney General
having expired, Mr. Bowman, his successor in office, has
been substituted as a party in his stead.
On the former appeal, it appeared upon the face of the
bill that plaintiff (appellee) purchases gasoline in various
States other than New Mexico and ships it into that State,
there to be sold and delivered; that it carries on business
in two ways: first, gasoline is brought in from other States
either in tank cars, in barrels, or in packages containing
not less than two 5-gallon cans, and sold and delivered
to customers in the original packages, in the same form
and condition as when received by plaintiff in the State

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

of New Mexico; as to which we held plaintiff is engaged
in interstate commerce and not liable to pay to the State
a license tax for purchasing, shipping, and selling gasoline
in that manner; secondly, a part of plaintiff's business
consists of selling gasoline from the tank cars, barrels, and
packages in quantities to suit purchasers; and we held that
business of this kind is properly taxable by the laws of the
State, although the gasoline is brought into the State in
interstate commerce; that the mere fact that it was produced in another State does not show a discrimination
against the products of such State, and that sales from
broken packages in quantities to suit purchasers are a
subject of taxation within the legitimate power of the
State. But these latter sales were little emphasized in
the bill, which stressed the sales in original packages; and
since from its averments it was impossible to determine
whether the sales from broken packages were of substantial importance, we did not at that stage of the case go
into the question whether the act was separable, but
reserved it for the final hearing, while affirming the order
for a temporary injunction.
Upon the going down of the mandate, 'plaintiff amended
its bill by averring that, in addition to carrying on the
business of buying and selling gasoline and other petroleum
products, it is using gasoline at each of its distributing
stations within the State of New Mexico (37 in number)
in the operation of its automobile tank wagons and otherwise; that under the terms of the act it is prohibited from
using this gasoline except upon the payment of the excise
tax of 2 cents per gallon therefor; that this is a property
tax, void under ยง 1 of Article VIII of the state constitution
because not levied in proportion to the value of the gasoline; and that the imposition of the tax denies to plaintiff
the equal protection of the laws and amounts to a taking
of its property without due process of law, incontravention of the Fourteenth Amendment, and further is in

BOWMAN v. CONTINENTAL OIL CO.
642.

Opinion of the Court.

violation of the commerce clause of the Constitution of
the United States.
Defendants answered, alleging that plaintiff's sales in
tank cars or other unbroken packages are insignificant as
compared with its sales made after original packages have
been broken; denying that the act exacts of the plaintiff
payment of a license tax for the privilege of shipping or
selling gasoline in interstate commerce, or of an excise
tax on the gasoline sold in such commerce; averring that
the State of New Mexico and its officers charged with enforcement of the law do not construe the act as affecting
interstate commerce, and have no purpose or intention to
enforce it so as to do so, or otherwise than so far as intrastate commerce is concerned; and averring that any
gasoline used by plaintiff at its distributing stations is no
longer in interstate commerce, but has become commingled with the general mass of property in the State,
and a tax upon its use is not void under the state constitution or a violation of the commerce clause or the Fourteenth Amendment.
The case came on for final hearing upon stipulated
facts as to the course of plaintiff's business, from which it
appeared that during the years 1918 and 1919 and the
first seven months of 1920 its sales of gasoline in bulk or
from broken packages constituted about 94.5 per cent.
of its aggregate business, and sales in original barrels,
packages, or tank cars without breaking the packages
about 5.5 per cent.; in addition to which the company
consumed in the conduct of its own business gasoline
equal to about 8 per cent. of its total sales. It was further
stipulated that this represents the ordinary course of
business of the company, but that future percentages
will depend upon the demands of customers.
The trial court, sifter referring to our decision in 252
U. S., proceeded to pass upon the question whether the
statute is separable and capable of being sustained so far

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

256 U. 8.

as it imposes a tax upon domestic business legitimately
taxable. Reciting the language of the act, and reading
it as including every distributor of gasoline whether sell-

ing at retail or. in original packages, as imposing an excise
tax upon all gasoline whether sold in one way or the other,
and as making no exemption from either the license or the
excise tax for persons selling gasoline or for gasoline sold
in original packages, the court declared that it could not
read an exemption into it without giving it a meaning
the legislature might never have intended; and held the
act not separable, but void as to both interstate and
domestic business. Having reached this conclusion, the
court found it unnecessary to pass upon the question
whether the imposition of an excise tax of 2 cents per
gallon upon the gasoline used by plaintiff in its automobiles
and trucks employed in the business of distributing its
wares for sale was in violation of the provision of ยง 1, ArL
VIII, of the emstitution of the State because not levied
in proportion to the value of the gasoline so used.
Assuming that, upon the question of construction, the
District Court was right, and that the act manifests an
intent to tax interstate as well as domestic transactions
in gasoline, and is not in this respect capable of separation,
still, so far as the excise tax is concerned-imposed as
it is upon the sale and use of gasoline according to the
number of gallons sold and used-the divisible nature
of the subject renders it feasible to control the operation
and effect of the tax so as to prevent it from being imposed
upon sales in interstate commerce, while allowing the
State to enforce it with respect to domestic transactions;
and with the allowance of an injunction limited accordingly
plaintiff will receive the full protection to which it is entitled under the Constitution of the United States. The
applicable rule is that laid down in Raterman v. Western
Union Teegraph Co., 127 U. S. 411, where, in response to
a question whether a single tax, assessed by a state upon

BOWMAN v. CONTINENTAL OIL CO.
642.

Opinion of the Court.

the receipts of a telegraph company derived partly from
interstate commerce and partly from commerce within
the State, but returned and assessed in gross and without
separation or apportionment, was wholly invalid or invalid only in proportion and to the extent that the receipts
were derived from interstate commerce, this court unanimously answered that so far as levied upon receipts
derived from interstate commerce the tax was void, but
so far as levied upon receipts from commerce wholly within
the State it was Valid. This case has been cited repeatedly
with approval and its principle accepted. Western Union
Telegraph Co. v. Alabama, 132 U. S. 472,476-477; Lehigh
Valley R. R. Co. v. Pennsylvania, 145 U. S. 192, 200-201;
Postal Telegraph Cable Co. v. Charleston, 153 U. S. 692, 697;
Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 1, 31.
But with the license tax it is otherwise. If the statute
is inseparable, then both by its terms and by its legal
operation and effect this tax is imposed generally upon
the entire business conducted, including interstate commerce as well as domestic: and the tax is void under the
authority of Leloup v. Port of Mobile, 127 U. S. 640, 647;
Crutcher v. Kentucy, 141 U. S. 47, 58-59; Williams v.
Talladega, 226 U. S. 404, 419; and other cases of that
character.
Upon the question of severability, we are constrained
to concur in the view adopted by the District Court; and
this notwithstanding our hesitation, in advance of a
declaration by the court of last resort of the State, to
adopt a construction bringing the law into conflict with
the Federal Constitution. Ohio Tax Cases, 232 U. S. 576,
591; St. Louis Southwestern Ry. Co. v. Arkansas, 235 U. S.
350, 369-370. The act, in its 2d section, requires every
distributor of gasoline to pay an annual license tax of
$50 for each distributing station or place of business or
agency; requires it to be paid in advance; and renders it
unlawful to carry on the business without having paid it.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

Section 8 declares that any person who shall engage or
continue in the business of selling gasoline without a
license shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and,
upon conviction, be punished by fine or imprisonment,
or both. The subject taxed is not in its nature divisible, as
in the case of the excise tax. The imposition falls upon
the entire business indiscriminately; and so does the
prohibition against the further conduct of business without maldng the payment. By accepted canons of con.struction, the provisions of the act in respect of this tax
are not capable of separation so as to confine them to
domestic trade, leaving interstate commerce exempt.
United States v. Reese, 92 V. S. 214, 221; Trade-Mark
Cas, 100 U. S. 82, 99; Poindexter v. Greenhow, 114 U. S;
270, 304-305; Pollok v. Farmers'Loan & Trust Co., 158
U. S. 601, 636.
No doubt the State might impose a license tax upon the
distribution and sale of gasoline in domestic commerce
if it did not make its payment a condition of carrying on
interstate or foreign commerce. But the State has not
done this by any act of legislation. Its executive and
administrative officials have disavowed a purpose to
exact payment of the license tax for the privilege of carrying on interstate commerce. But the difficulty is that,
since plaintiff, so far as appears, necessarily conducts its
interstate and domestic commerce in gasoline indiscriminately at the same stations and by the same agencies,
the license tax cannot be enforced at all without interfering with interstate commerce unless it be enforced otherwise than as prescribed by the statute-that is to say,
without authority of law. Hence, it cannot be enforced
at all.
With the excise tax as imposed upon the use of gasoline
by plaintiff at its distributing stations, in the operation
of its automobile tank wagons and otherwise, we have
no difficulty. Manifestly, gasoline thus used has passed

BOWMAN v. CONTINENTAL OIL CO.
642.

Opinion of the Court.

beyond interstate commerce, and the tax can be imposed
upon its use, as well as upon the sale of the same commodity in domestic trade, without infringing plaintiff's
commercial rights under the Federal Constitution. Section 1, Article VIII, of the state constitution, invoked by
plaintiff, reads: "Taxes levied upon tangible property
shall be in proportion to the value thereof, and taxes shall
be equal and uniform upon subjects of taxation of the
same class." Clearly, the first part of this refers to property taxation. The tax imposed by the act under consideration upon the "sale or use of all gasoline sold or used
in this State " is not property taxation, but in effect, as
in name, an excise tax. We see no reason to doubt the
power of the State to select this commodity, as distinguished from others, in order to impose an excise tax
upon its sale and use; and since the tax operates impartially upon all, and with territorial uniformity throughout
the State, we deem it "equal and uniform upon subjects
of taxation of the same class," within the meaning of ยง 1
of Article VIII.
There is no substance in the objection that the excise
tax, as applied to domestic sales and domestic use of
gasoline, infringes plaintiff's rights under the due process
and equal protection clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment. The contention that it interferes with interstate
commerce because the gasoline is the product of other
States already has been disposed of.
The decree under review should be reversed, and the
cause remanded with directions to grant a decree enjoining the enforcement as against plaintiff of the license tax
without qualification, and of the excise tax upon the sale
or use of gasoline only with respect to sales of gasoline
brought from without the State into the State of New
Mexico, and there sold and delivered to customers in the
original packages, whether tank cars, barrels, or other
packages, and in the same form and condition as when

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Syllabus.

256 U. .

received by plaintiff in that State; but without prejudice to the right of the State, through appellants or
other officers, to enforce collection of the excise tax with
respect to sales of gasoline from broken packages in quantities to suit purchasers, notwithstanding such gasoline
may have been brought into the State in interstate commerce, and with respect to any and all gasoline used by
plaintiff at its distributing stations or elsewhere in the
State in the operation of its automobile tank wagons or
otherwise; and without prejudice to the right of the State,
through appellants or other officers, to require plaintiff
to render detailed statements of all gasoline received,
sold, or used by it, whether in interstate commerce or not,
to the end that the State may the more readily enforce
said excise tax to the extent that it has lawful power to
enforce it as above stated.
Deem rwe ed, and he cause renwam ed for furt-h pr.
cawedag in wqfr=Vl wiah thi wpmom

HARRIS, BY HIS NEXT FPREND, ETC. v. DISTRICT
OF COLUMBIA.
ON cmEi[lCATE FROM THE COURT OF APPEAI
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

OF TE

No. 16. Argued January 24, 1919.-Decided June 6, 1921.
L The work of cleaning the streets for the protection of the public
health and comfort appertains to the discretionary governmental
functions of the District of Columbia, distingished from the special
corporate or municipal duty of keeping the stzeets in repair. P. 652.
2. The Distaic is not liable for personal injuries occasioned by the
negli
of As employee while engaged in sprinkling streets po-

paatr to cleaning them. P. 652.

