OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

MISSOURI

256 U. S.

PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY
McGREW COAL COMPANY.

v.

ERRCR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSOURI.
No. 235.

Argued March 1, 1921.-Decided April 11, 1921.

1. The Missouri long-andshort-haul statute is constitutional. P. 135.
Missouri Pacific Ry. Co. v. McGrew Coal Co., 244 U. S. 191.
2. Whether under the statute a shipper may recover overcharges which
he did not himself pay is a question of state law. P. 135.
280 Missouri, 466, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Edward J. While, with whom Mr. James F. Green
and Mr. Harvey C. Clark were on the briefs, for plaintiff
in error. They contended that the statute imposed an
unreasonable burden on interstate commerce; that its
enforcement deprived the company of property without
due process of law and denied it the equal protection of
the laws in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment; and
that, as the statute only gave a right of action to the
party aggrieved, a recovery could not be allowed to a
shipper whose consignee paid the charges.
Mr. Eduin A. Krauthoff, with whom Mr. Z. Lewis
Dalby, Mr. William S. McClinLock and Mr. Arthur L.

Quant were on the brief, for defendant in error.
Memorandum opinion by direction of the court, by
MR- JUSTICE BA.N-'Ds.
In this action by a shipper brought under the long-andshort-haul statute of Missouri a judgment for the over-

BLOCK v. HIRSH.
134.

Syllabus.

charges entered by the trial court was affirmed by the

highest court of the State.
The case comes here on writ of error, the railroad contending that the statute as construed violates rights
secured to it by the Federal Constitution. The only
federal question which was substantial and properly
raised below was decided adversely to the railroad's
contention in Missouri Pacific Ry. Co. v. McGrew Coal
Co., 244 U. S. 191, a case between the same parties and
involving transactions precisely simi r. The objection
now made, that the shipper did not pay freight charges
and, therefore, was not damaged, raised no substantial
federal question but a question of state law which we
have no jurisdiction to review. See Osborne v. Gray, 241
U. S. 16, 20.

Affirmed.
BLOCK, TRADING UNDER THE NAME OF
WHITES, v. HIRSH.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPCALS OF THE DISTRICT o
COLUMBIA.
No. 640. Argued March 3, 1921.-Decided April 18, 1921.
The Act of October 22, 1919, c. 80, Title II, 41 Stat. 297, created a
commission with power, upon notice and hearing, to determine
whether the rent, service and other terms and conditions of the use
and occupancy of apartments, hotels and other rental property
in the District of Columbia, were fair and reasonable and, if found
otherwise, to fix fair and reasonable rents, etc., in lieu; it provided
that a tenant's right of occupancy should, at his option, continue,
notwithstanding the expiration of his term, subject to regulation by
the commission, so long as he paid the rent and performed the conditiomr ficed by his lease or as modified by the commission; reserved,
however, to the owner his right to possession for actual bona fide
occupancy by himself, his wife, children or dependents, upon giving

