LABELLE IRON WORKS v. UNITED STATES.

377

Syllabus.

368.

16, 1920. His alleged offense and his arrest were on the
following day; so his claim that those provisions had
not gone into effect at the time is not well grounded.
Final order affirmed.

LABELLE IRON WORKS v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 453.

Argued January 6, 7, 1921.-Decided May 16, 1921.

1. The Act of October 3, 1917, c. 63, Tit. II, 40 Stat. 300, 302, in providing for a deduction of a percentage of "invested capital " before
computation of the "excess profits " tax upon. the income of a domestic corporation, does not mean to include in its definition of invested capital (§ 207) any marking up of the valuation of assets
upon the corporate books to correspond with increase of market
value or any paper transaction by which new shares are issued in
exchange for old ones in the same corporation but which is not in
substance and effect a new acquisition of capital property by it.
Pp. 386, 389.
2. A corporation, having acquired ore lands for $190,000, proved,
by extensive explorations and developments, that their actual cash
value was over $10,105,400; thereupon, in 1912, it increased their
book valuation by adding $10,000,000, as surplus, and, based thereon,
declared a stock dividend for $9,915,400, which was carried out by
surrender and cancellation of all the common stock, of like aggregate
par value, and the issuance of one share each of preferred and new
common stock for each share of the stock surrendered. The increased value of the ore lands persisted when an excess profits tax
was laid under the Act of 1917, supra. Held: That such increase
of value was not included in "in iested capital " under § 207 (a)
(3), as "paid in or earned surplus and undivided profits," (though
an amount equal to the cost of the exploration and development
might be), pp. 386, 390; nor under id. (2) as "the actual cash value
of tangible property paid in other than cash, for the stock or shares"
of the corporation. Pp. 386, 390.
3. The Fifth Amendment having no "equal protection " clause, the

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Argument for Appellant.

256 U. S.

only rule of uniformity prescribed by the Constitution respecting
duties, imposts and excises is the territorial uniformity required by
Art. I, § 8. P. 391.
4. There were reasons, both theoretical and practical, including that
of convenience in administration, for basing "invested capital "
upon actual costs to the exclusion of higher estimated values; and
resulting inequalities to corporations differently situated do not
make out an arbitrary discrimination, amouliting to confiscation
and violating the due process clause of the Fifth Amendment. P. 392.
55 Ct. Clms. 462, affirmed.
APPEAL from a judgment of the Court of Claims disallowing a claim for a refund of money alleged to have
been unlawfully exacted as an excess profits tax. The
facts are stated in the opinion, post, 383.

Mr. Charles McCamic and Mr. Charles E. Hughes, with
whom Mr. Edward B. Burling and Mr. Jas. Morgan
Clarke were on the briefs, for appellant:
By the correct construction of the act the appellant
is entitled to include as paid in or earned surplus and
undivided profits, under § 207 (a) (3) of the act, the increase in the value of the ore lands due to the discovery
of the ore bodies and to the natural increase in the
market price of ore. The act contains no definition of
the words "paid in or earned surplus and undivided
profits."
Statutes imposing taxes are to be construed in favor
of the taxpayer; the language employed is to be given
its ordinary meaning; they are to be construed according
to the spirit rather than the letter when the letter would
make them palpably unjust; construed according to these
rules the invested capital of appellant should include all
its outstanding stock where that is represented by property of an actual cash value not less than the par value
of the outstanding stock.
The ordinary meaning of the words "paid in or earned
surplus and undivided profits," includes appreciation in

LABELLE IRON WORKS v. UNITED STATES. 379
377.

Argument for Appellant.

value. R. J. Bennett, Corporation Accounting, 1917,
§ 291, pp. 334, 336; Arthur Lowes Dickinson, Accounting
Practice and Procedure, 1917, p. 62; Henry Rand Hatfield,
Modem Accounting, 1916, p. 237; Harry C. Bentley, The
Science of Accounts, 1913, § 36, p. 24; Leo Greendlinger,
Financial and Business Statements (Alexander Hamilton
Institute, 1917), vol. 22, pp. 195, 196; Year Book, 1911,
p. 124.
Text writers on law and decided cases give the same
definition of surplus and undivided profits as the accountants. Machen, Modem Law of Corporations, vol. II,
pp. 1092, 1095; Morawetz, Private Corporations, 2d ed.,
vol. I, p. 412; Thompson, Corporations, 2d ed., § 5307;
Cook, Corporations, 7th ed., vol. II, § 536; Park v. Grant
Locomotive Works, 40 N. J. Eq. 114, 121.
The Department's definition, excluding appreciation
from surplus, when analyzed closely, shows itself to be
unsound; for it is admitted that when the property is
sold the profit may become a part of surplus. But the
sale does not create the profit. Williams v. Western Union
Telegraph Co., 93 N. Y. 162, 186, 191; People v. Board of
Commissioners, 76 N. Y. 64, 74; People v. Barker, 165
N. Y. 305; McGinnis v. O'Connor, 72 Atl. Rep. 614;
Mangham v. State, 11 Ga. App. 440; Hutchinson v. Curtiss,
92 N. Y. S. 70, 74; Simcoke v. Sayre, 148 Iowa, 132;
Anderson v. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co., 241 Fed. Rep.
322, 326; Roberts v. Roberts-Wicks Co., 184 N. Y. 257;
Hubbard v. Weare, 79 Iowa, 678; Miller v. Bradish, 69
Iowa, 278; Equitable Life Assurance Society v. Union
Pacific R. R. Co., 212 N. Y. 360.
The word "earned" does not limit the surplus which
is to be included in invested capital. The statute merely
contrasts "earned" with "paid in" surplus. The phrase
in the act is "paid in or earned surplus and undivided
profits." The. meaning of "earned" is not the same as
"realized."
It includes in meaning "to acquire the

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Argument for Appellant.

256 U. S.

benefit of although not realized." Stevens v. United States
Steel Corporation, 68 N. J. Eq. 373, 380; Lewis's Estate,
156 Pa. St. 337; Nuding v. Urich, 169 Pa. St. 289.
Our contention on this subject is that if the appreciation
is surplus at all it is necessarily "paid in or earned "
surplus. The word "earned " was probably used in contrast to "paid in " in the clause "paid in or earned surplus and undivided profits," and was perhaps intended
to emphasize the thought that the surplus must be real
and not fictitious.
If it be admitted that appreciation after realization
is earned surplus, then it must be admitted that appreciation is earned surplus before the propr 'ty is sold.
The sale does not create the earning; it is .ne gradual
increase in value Which is the earning.
But if the word "earned " has any such narrow meaning as is contended for, that narrow meaning is not applicable to appellant in view of the fact§ admitted by the
demurrer. The petition alleges that after the acquisition
of the ore properties, extensive exploration and development work was carried on, and that by 1912, and at all
times thereafter to 1917, the actual cash value of the ore
lands was not less than $10,105,400.
New capital stock of the company was issued because
the value of the ores justified it and this was a realization
of the increased values.
This court in construing the, 1909 corporation excise
tax law, and the 1913 income tax law, held that appreciation accruing before the incidence of the tax was capital.
The word "capital " as used in these cases must include
"surplus." Hays v. Gauley Mountain Coal Co., 247 U. S.
189; Doyle v. Mitchell Bros. Co., 247 U. S. 179, 187; Southern Pacific Co. v. Lowe, 247 U. S. 330, 335; Towne v.
Eisner, 245 U. S. 418; Lynch v. Turrish, 247 U. S. 221;
Lynch v. Hornby, 247 U. S. 339.
The construction here contended for will impose no

LABELLE IRON WORKS v. UNITED STATES.
377.

381

Argument for Appellant.

heavier burden on the Department than the construction
of the Government.
The stock of the company, issued in 1912, was fully
paid for, either by the tangible assets including the ore
lands at their increased value, or the certificates of the old
common stock. In either case tangible property was paid
in for shares with an actual cash value within § 207 (a)
(2) equal to $19,830,800,-and the company is accordingly
entitled to include the full amount in its invested capital.
Williams v. Western Union Telegraph Co., 93 N. Y. 162,
190. In its essence the transaction in 1912 amounted to
this: The shareholders surrendered all their old shares
and thereupon, being in effect the owners of all the assets,
"paid in." those assets to the corporation in exchange
for the new stock issue.
The construction placed upon the act by the Department would create a wholly baseless and arbitrary discrimination amounting to a deprivation of property without due process of law. Such a construction is to be
avoided if the act is to be constitutional.
This court has said that if there were arbitrary confiscation in a taxing law of Congress there would be a
want of due process. Knowlton v. Moore, 178 U. S.41,
77; Brushaber v. Union Pacific R. R. Co., 240 U. S. 1, 24,
25. See also, Wagner v. Baltimore, 239 U. S. 207; Twining v. New Jersey, 211 U. S. 78; McCray v. United States,
195 U. S. 27; Flint v. Stone Tracy Co., 220 U. S.107; Billings v. United Siates, 232 U. S.261. The foregoing cases
make it clear that a taxing law which imposes a tax based
on a wholly arbitrary classification is void within the Ffth
Amendment. To be sure, in all the cases the court found
that the classification was not of that character. But
the discassion in all is based on the impiied assumption
that if the classification were of that arbitrary character
the law would be invalid.
The due process clause in the Fifth Amendment means

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.

Counsel for Parties.

256 U. S.

the same thing as the due process clause in the Fourteenth
Amendment. Carroll v. Greenwich Insurance Co., 199 U.
S. 401, 410; Tonawanda v. Lyon, 181 U. S. 389, 392, 393;
French v. Barber Asphalt Paving Co., 181 U. S. 324; Flint
v. Stone Tracy Co., 220 U. S. 107; Hibben v. Smith, 191
U. S. 310, 325, 326.
In Gast Realty Co. v. Schneider Granite Co., 240 U. S.
55, and in other cases in this court, tax laws of States have
been held so arbitrary and baseless as to violate the Fourteenth Amendment. Looney v. Crane Co., 245 U. S. 178;
International Paper Co. v. Massachusetts, 246 U. S. 135;
Southern Ry. Co. v. Greene, 216 U. S. 400.
The present law as construed by the Department is
utterly arbitrary, and therefore invalid, because the tax
depends largely upon the cost of the taxpayer's property
so that two taxpayers who have the same income, and
property of equal value, will pay wholly different taxes
if the cost of the property is different.
The Solicitor General for the United States.
Mr. Frank Hagerman and Mr. Massey Holmes, by leave
of court, filed a brief as amici curie.
Mr. Jesse Andrews, by leave of court, filed a brief as
amicus curi.

Mr. William D. Guthrie, Mr. Henry M. Ward, Mr.
Henry F. Parmelee and Mr. Langdon P. Marvin, by leave
of court, filed a brief as amici curiae.
Mr. Clark J. Milliron, Mr. James M. Proctor and Mr.

Edward S. Brashears, by leave of court, filed a brief as
amici curi.
Mr. Clarence N. Goodwin, by leave of court, filed a brief
as amicus curic.

LABELLE IRON WORKS v. UNITED STATES.
377.

383

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Armwell L. Cooper, Mr. Ellison A. Neel and M r.
John S. Wright, by leave of court, filed a brief as am ci
curio.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY delivered the opinion of the court.
The Court of Claims dismissed appellant's petition
which claimed a refund of $1,081,184.61, alleged to have
been erroneously assessed and exacted as an "excess
profits tax" under Title II of the Revenue Act of 1917
(Act of October 3, 1917, c. 63, 40 Stat. 300, 302, et 8eq.).
The case involves the construction and application of
those provisions by which the deduction from income,
for the purposes of the tax, is measured by the "invested
capital" of the taxpayer; and a question is raised as to
the constitutionality of the act as construed and applied.
Title I of the act imposed "War Income Taxes " upon
individuals and corporations in addition to those imposed
by Act of September 8, 1916, c. 463, 39 Stat. 756.
Title II provided for the levying of "War Excess Profits
Taxes" upon corporations, partnerships, and individuals.
As applied to domestic corporations, the scheme of this
Title was that, after providing for a deduction from income (§ 203, p. 304) equal to the same percentage of the
invested capital for the taxable year which the average
amount of the annual net income of the trade or business
during the prewar period (the years 1911, 1912, and 1913)
was of the invested capital for that period, but not less
than 7 nor more than 9 per cent., plus $3,000, it imposed
(§ 201, p. 303), in addition to other taxes, a graduated
tax upon the net income beyond the deduction, commencing with 20 per centum of such net income above
the deduction but not above 15 per centuri of the invested
capital for the taxable year, and running as high as 60
per centum of the net income in excess of 33 per centum
of such capital. It applied to "all trades or businesses,"
with exceptions not now material (p. 303).

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

What should be deemed "invested capital" was defined
by § 207 (p. 306), which, so far as pertinent, is set forth
in the margin.1
The case was decided upon a demurrer to the petition,
in which the facts were stated as follows: Appellant is a
domestic corporation and, prior to the year 1904, acquired ore lands for which it paid the sum of $190,000.
Between that time and the year 1912 extensive explorations and developments were carried on (the cost of
which is not stated), and it was proved that the lands contained large bodies of ore and had an actual cash value
' SEc. 207. That as used in this title, the term "invested capital"
for any year means the average invested capital for the year, as defined
and limited in this title, averaged monthly.
As used in this title "invested capital" does not include stocks,
bonds (other than obligations of the United States), or other assets,
the income from which is not subject to the tax imposed by this title,
nor money or other property borrowed, and means, subject to the
above limitations:
(a) In the case of a corporation or partnership: (1) Actual cash
paid in, (2) the actual cash value of tangible property paid in other than
cash, for stock or shares in such corporation or partnership, at the
time of such payment (but in case such tangible property was paid in
prior to January first, nineteen hundred and fourteen, the actual cash
value of such property as of January first, nineteen hundred and fourteen, but in no case to exceed the par value of the original stock or
shares specifically issued therefor), and (3) paid in or earned surplus
and undivided profits used or employed in the business, exclusive of
undivided profits earned during the taxable year: Provided, That (a)
the actual cash value of patents and copyrights paid in for stock or
shares in such corporation or partnership, at the time of such payment,
shall be included as invested capital, but not to exceed the par value
of such stock or shares at the time of such payment, and (b) the good
will, trade-marks, trade brands, the franchise of a corporation or partnership, or other intangible property, shall be included as invested
capital if the corporation or partnership made payment bona fide
therefor specifically as such in cash or tangible property, the value of
such good will, trade-mark, trade brand, franchise, or intangible
property, not to exceed the actual cash or actual cash value of the
tangible property paid therefor at the time of such payment; but good

LABELLE IRON WORKS v. UNITED STATES.
377.

385

Opinion of the Court.

not less than $10,105,400; and at all times during the
years 1912 to 1917, inclusive, their actual cash value was
not less than the sum last mentioned. In the year 1912
the company increased the valuation of said lands upon
its books by adding thereto the sum of $10,000,000,
which it carried to surplus, and thereupon, in the same
year, declared a stock dividend in the sum of $9,915,400,
representing the increase in value of the ore lands. Theretofore appellant's capital stock had consisted of shares
issued, all of one class, having a par value ot $9,915,400.
The declaration of the stock dividend was carried out by
the surrender to the company of all the outstanding stock,
and its cancellation, and the exchange of one share of new
common and one share of new preferred stock for each
share of the original stock.
In returning its amnual riet income for the year 1917
the company stated its invested capitnl to be $26,322,904.14, in which was included the sum of $10,105,400
as representing the value of its ore lands. The Commissioner of Internal Revenue caused a reassessment to
be made, based upon a reduction of the invested capital
to $16,407,507.14; the difference ($9,915,400) being the
increase in the value of the ore lands already mentioned.
The result was an additional tax of $1,081,184.61, which,
having been paid, was made the subject of a claim for
refund; and this having been considered and rejected by
will, trade-marks, trade brands, franchise of a corporation or partnership, or other intangible property, bona fide purchased, prior to March
third, nineteen hundred and seventeen, for and with interests or shares
in a partnership or for and with shares in the capital stock of a corporation (issued prior to March third, nineteen hundred and seventeen)
in an amount not to exceed, on March third, nineteen hundred and
seventeen, twenty per centum ef the total interests or shares in the
partnership or of the total bhares of the capital stock of the corporation,
shall be included in invested capital at a value not to exceed the actual
cash value at the time of such purchase, and in case of issue of stock
therefor not to exceed the par value of such stock; .

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

the Commissioner, there followed a suit in the Court of
Claims, with the result already mentioned.
Appellant's contentions, in brief, are, first, that the increased value of the ore lands, placed upon the company's
books in 1912, ought to be included in invested capital
under § 207 (a) (3), as "paid in or earned surplus and undivided profits." Second, that within the meaning of
clause (2), which provides that invested capital shall
include "the actual cash value of tangible property paid
in other than cash, for stock or shares in such corporation,"
the stock of the company issued in 1912, consisting of
$9,915,400 of preferred stock and an equal amount of
common, was fully paid for: either (a) by the tangible
assets, including the ore properties at their increased
value, or (b) by the surrender of all the certificates representing the old common stock, which, it is said, had an
actual cash value equal to double its par. And, third,
that the construction put upon the act by the Treasury
Department, based, as it is said, not upon value but upon
the single feature of cost, disregarding the time of acquisition, would render the act unconstitutional as a
deprivation of property without due process under the
Fifth Amendment, because so arbitrary as to amount
in effect to confiscation; and hence that this construction
must be avoided.
Reading the entire language of § 207 in the light of the
circumstances that surrounded the passage of the act,
we think its meaning as to "invested capital" is entirely
clear. The great war in Europe had been in progress
since the year 1914, and the manufacture and export of
war supplies and other material for the belligerent powers
had stimulated many lines of trade and business in this
country, resulting in large profits as compared with the
period before the war, and as compared with ordinary
returns upon the capital embarked. The United States
had become directly involved in the conflict in the Spring

LABELLE IRON WORKS v. UNITED STATES.
377.

387

Opinion of the Court.

of 1917, necessitating heavy increases in taxation; at the
same time manufactures and trade of every description
were rendered even more active, and in certain lines more
profitable, than before, so that. the unusual gains derived
therefrom formed a natural subject for special taxation.
On the eve of our entry, and in order to provide a
"Special Preparedness Fund" for army, navy, and
fortification purposes, an act (March 3, 1917, c. 159, 39
Stat. 1000) was passed, which, in Title II, provided for
an excess profits tax on corporations and partnerships
equal to 8 per centum of the amount by which their net
income exceeded $5,000 plus 8 per centum of the "actual
capital invested "; and, in § 202 (p. 1001), defined this
term to mean "(1) actual cash paid in, (2) the actual
cash value, at the time of payment, of assets other than
cash paid in, and (3) paid in or earned surplus and undivided profits used or employed in the business," but
not to include money or other property borrowed.
The Revenue Act of October 3, 1917, passed after we
had become engaged in the war, took the place of the
Act of March 3, and embodied a "War Excess Profits
Tax," with higher percentages imposed upon the income
in excess of deductions and a more particular definition of
terms. A scrutiny of the particular provisions of § 207
shows that it was the dominant purpose of Congress to
place the peculiar burden of this tax upon the income of
trades and businesses exceeding what was deemed a
normally reasonable return upon the capital actually
embarked. But if such capital were to be computed according to appreciated market values based upon the
estimates of interested parties (on whose returns perforce the Government must in great part rely), exaggerations would be at a premium, corrections difficult, and
the tax easily evaded. Section 207 shows that Congress
was fully alive to this and designedly adopted a term"invested capital"-and a definition of it, that would

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

measurably guard against inflated valuations.
The
word "invested" in itself imports a restrictive qualification. When speaking of the capital of a business corporation or partnership, such as the act deals with, "to
invest" imports a laying out of money, or money's
worth, either by an individual in acquiring an interest
in the concern with a view to obtaining income or profit
from the conduct of its business, or by the concern itself
in acquiring something of permanent use in the business;
in either case involving a conversion of wealth from one
form into another suitable for employment in the making
of the hoped-for gains. See Webster's New Internat.
Dict., "invest," 8; Century Dict., "invest," 7; Standard
Dict., "invest," 1.
In order to adhere to this restricted meaning and avoid
exaggerated valuations, the draftsman of the act resorted
to the test of including nothing but money, or money's
worth, actually contributed or converted in exchange
for shares of the capital stock, or actually acquired through
the business activities of the corporation or partnership
(involving again a conversion) and coming in ab extra, by
way of increase over the original capital stock. How
consistently this was carried out becomes -evident as the
section is examined in detail. Cash paid in, and tangible
property paid in other than cash, are confined to such
as were contributed for stock or shares in the corporation
or partnership; and the property is to be taken at its
actual cash value "at the time of such payment"distinctly negativing any allowance for appreciation in
value. There is but a single exception: tangible property
paid in prior to January 1, 1914, may be taken at its
actual cash value on that date, but in no case exceeding
the par value of the original stock or shares specifically
issued for it; a restriction in itself requiring the valuation
to be taken as of a date prior tq the war period, and in no
case to exceed the stock valuation placed upon it at the

LABELLE IRON WORKS v. UNITED STATES. 389
377.

Opinion of the Court.

time it was contributed. The provision of clause (3) that
includes "paid in or earned surplus and undivided profits
used or employed in the business " recognizes that in
some cases contributions are received from stockholders
in money or its equivalent for the specific purpose of
creating an actual excess capital over and above the par
value of the stock; and, in view of the context, surplus
"earned" as well as that "paid in" excludes the idea of
capitalizing (for the purposes of this tax) a mere appreciation of values over cost.
The same controlling thought is carried into the proviso, which relates to the valuation of patents, copyrights,
trade-marks, good will, franchises, and similar intangible
property. Every line shows evidence of a legislative
purpose to confine the account to such items as were paid
in for stock or shares, and to their values "at the time of
such payment"; but, with regard to those bona fide purchased prior to March 3, 1917, there is a special provision,
limiting the effect of any adjustments that might have
been made in view of the provisions of the act of that
date.
It is clear that clauses (1) and (2) refer to actual contributions of cash or of tangible property at its cash value
contributed in exchange for stock or shares specifically
issued for it; and that neither these clauses, nor clause (3)
which relates to surplus, can be construed as including
within the definition of invested capital any marking up
of the valuation of assets upon the books to correspond
with increase in market value, or any paper transaction
by which new shares are issued in exchange for old ones
in the same corporation, but which is not in substance
and effect a new acquisition of capital property by the
company.
It is clear enough that Congress adopted the basis of
"invested capital" measured according to actual contributions made for stock or shares and actual accessions

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

in the way of surplus, valuing them according to actual
and bona fide transactions and by valuations obtaining at
the time of acquisition, not only in order to. confine the
capital, the income from which was to be in part exempted
from the burden of this special tax, to something approximately representative of the risks accepted by the
investors in embarking their means in the enterprise, but
also in order to adopt tests that would enable returns to
be more easily checked by examination of records, and
make them less liable to inflation than if a more liberal
meaning of "capital and surplus" had been adopted;
thus avoiding the necessity of employing a special corps
of valuation experts to grapple with the many difficult
problems that would have ensued had general market
values been adopted as the criteria.
In view of the special language employed in § 207,
obviously for the purpose of avoiding appreciated valuations of assets over and above cost, the argument that
such value is as real as cost value, and that in the terminology of corporation and partnership accounting "capital
and surplus" means merely the excess of all assets at
actual values over outstanding liabilities, and "surplus"
means the intrinsic value of all assets over and above
outstanding liabilities plus par of the stock, is beside the
mark. Nor has the distinction between capital and income, discussed in Doyle v. Mitchell Bros. Co., 247 U. S.
179, 187; Hays v. Gauley Mountain Coal Co., 247 U. S.
189, 193; and Southern Pacific Co. v. Lowe, 247 U. S. 330,
334-335, any proper bearing upon the questions here
presented.
Upon the strength of an administrative interpretation
contained in a Treasury Regulation pertaining to the
Revenue Act of 1917, under which "stocks" were to be
regarded as tangible property when paid in for stock or
shares of a corporation, it is insisted that appellant's
stock dividend distribution of 1912 ought to be treated

LABELLE IRON WORKS v. UNITED STATES. 391
377.

Opinion of the Court.

as paid for in tangible property, the old stock surrendered
being regarded as tangible for the purpose. But that distribution, in substance and effect, was an internal transaction, in which the company received nothing from the
stockholders any more than they received anything from
it (see Eisner v. Macomber, 252 U. S. 189, 210-211); and
the old shares cannot be regarded as having been "paid
in for" the new ones within the meaning of § 207 (a) (2),
even were they "stocks" within the meaning of that
Regulation, which is doubtful.
It is said that the admitted increase in the value of
appellant's ore lands is properly to be characterized as
earned surplus, because it was the result of extenidve
exploration and development work. We assume that a
proper sum, not exceeding the cost of the work, might
have been added to earned surplus on that account; but
none such was stated in appellant's petition, nor, so far
as appears, in its return of income. In the absence of such
a showing it was not improper to attribute the entire
$9,915,400, added to the book value of the ore property
in the year 1912, to a mere appreciation in the value of
the property; in short, to what is commonly known as
the "unearned increment," not properly "earned surplus"
within the meaning of the statute.
The foregoing considerations dispose of the contention
that either the increased value of appellant's ore .lands,
or the surrender of the old stock in exchange for the new
issues based upon that value, can be regarded as "tangible
property paid in other than cash, for stock or shares in
such corporation" within the meaning of § 207 (a) (2);
and of the further contention that such increased value
can properly be regarded as "paid in or earned surplus
and undivided profits" under § 207 (a) (3).
It is urged that this construction, defining invested
capital according to the original cost of the *roperty instead of its present value, has the effect of rendering the

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

act" glaringly unequal" and of doubtful constitutionality;
the insistence being that, so construed, it operates to
produce baseless and arbitrary discriminations, to the
extent of rendering the tax invalid under the due process
of law clause of the Fifth Amendment. Reference is made
to cases decided under the equal protection clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment (Southern Ry. Co. v. Greene, 216
U. S. 400, 418; Gast Realty Co. v. Schneider Granite Co.,
240 U. S. 55); but clearly they are not in point. The Fifth
Amendment has no equal protection clause; and the only
rule of uniformity prescribed with respect to duties, imposts, and excises laid by Congress is the territorial uniformity required by Art. I, § 8. Pollock v. Farmers' Loan
& Trust Co., 157 U. S. 429, 557; Knowlton v. Moore, 178
U. S. 41, 98, 106; Flint v. Stone Tracy Co., 220 U. S. 107,
150; Billings v. United States, 232 U. S. 261, 282; Brushaber v. Union Pacific R. R. Co., 240 U. S. 1, 24. That the
statute under consideration operates with territorial uniformity is obvious and not questioned.
Appellant cites Looney v. Crane Co., 245 U. S. 178, 188,
and International Paper Co. v. Massachusetts, 246 U. S.
135, 145, but these cases also are inapplicable, being based
upon the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, with which state taxing laws were held in conflict
because they had the effect of imposing taxes on the property of foreign corporations located and used beyond the
jurisdiction of the taxing State. There is no such infirmity
here.
Nor can we regard the act-in basing "invested capital" upon actual costs to the exclusion of higher estimated values-as productive of arbitrary discriminations
raising a doubt about its constitutionality under the due
process clause of the Fifth Amendment. The difficulty
of adjusting any system of taxation so as to render it precisely equal in its bearing is proverbial, and such nicety is
not even required of the States under the equal protection

LABELLE IRON WORKS v. UNITED STATES. 393
377.

Opinion of the Court.

clause, much less of Congress under the more general
requirement of due process of law in taxation. Of course
it will be understood that Congress has very ample authority to adjust its income taxes according to its discretion, within the bounds of geographical uniformity.
Courts have no authority to pass upon the propriety of
its measures; and we deal with the present criticism only
for the purpose of refuting the contention, strongly urged,
that the tax is so wholly arbitrary as to amount to confiscation.
The act treats all corporations and partnerships alike,
so far as they are similarly circumstanced. As to one
and all, Congress adjusted this tax, generally speaking,
on the basis of excluding from its operation income to the
extent of a specified percentage (7 to 9 per cent.) of the
capital employed, but upon condition that such capital be
valued according to what actually was embarked at the
outset or added thereafter, disregarding any appreciation
in values. If in its application the tax in particular instances may seem to bear upon one corporation more
than upon another, this is due to differences in itl:eir circumstances, not to any uncertainty or want of g(nerality
in the tests applied.
Minor distinctions-such as those turnin, upon the
particular dates of January 1, 1914, and March 3, 1917are easily explained, as we have seen. The principal line
of demarcation-that based upon actual costs, excluding
estimated appreciation-finds reasonable support upon
grounds of both theory and practice, in addition to the
important consideration of convenience in administration,
already adverted to. There is a logical incongruity in
entering upon the books of a corporation as the capital
value of property acquired for permanent employment
in its business and still retained for that purpose, a sum
corresponding not to its cost but to what probably might
be realized by sale in the market. It is not merely that

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

the market value has not been realized or tested by sale
made, but that sale cannot be made without abandoning
the very purpose for which the property is held, involving
a withdrawal from business so far as that particular property is concerned. Whether in a given case property
should be carried in the capital account at market value
rather than at cost may be a matter of judgment, depending upon special circumstances and the local law. But
certainly Congress, in seeking a general rule, reasonably
might adopt the cost basis, resting upon experience rather
than anticipation.
In organizing corporations, it is not unusual to issue
different classes of securities, with various priorities as
between themselves, to represent different kinds of contribution to capital. In exchange for cash, bonds may be
issued; for fixed properties, like plant and equipment,
preferred stock may be given; while more speculative
values, like good-will or patent rights, may be represented
by common stock. In the present case, for instance,
when appellant took the estimated increase in value of
its ore lands as a basis for increased capitalization, it
issued preferred stock to the amount of the former total,
carrying those lands at cost, and issued a like amount of
common stock to represent the appreciation in their
market value. It does not appear that in form the new
issues were thus allocated; but at least there was a recognition of a higher claim in favor of one part of the book
capital than of the other. Upon like grounds, it was not
unreasonable for Congress, in adjusting the "excess profits
tax," to accord preferential treatment to capital representing actual investments, as compared with capital
representing higher valuations based upon estimates,
however confident and reliable, of what probably could
be realized were the property sold instead of retained.
From every point of view, the tax in question must be
sustained. We intimate no opinion upon the effect of

FREDERICK v. FIDELITY INS. CO.
377.

Opinion of the Court.

the act with respect to deductions from cost values of
capital assets because of depreciation or the like; no question of that kind being here involved.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDs concurs in the result.

FREDERICK, TRUSTEE IN BANKRUPTCY OF
SCHMIDT, v. FIDELITY MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE ,COMPANY OF PHILADELPHIA.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 547. Submitted January 3, 1921.-Decided May 16, 1921.
An insurance company which paid to the beneficiary the amount of a
life insurance policy, in strict conformity with its terms, after the
death of the insured and without notice of his pending bankruptcy
or claim made by the bankruptcy trustee, is not liable to pay the
trustee the surrender value under § 70a of the Bankruptcy Act.
P. 397.
75 Pa. Sup. Ct. Rep. 77, affirmed.

THm case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Lowrie C. Barton for petitioner.
Mr. George Sutherland for respondent. Mr. John C.
Slack, Mr. 0. S. Richardson and Mr. W. D. N. Rogers
were also on the brief.
MR. JUSTICE PiTNEY delivered the opinion of the court.
John E. Schmidt having died pending bankruptcy, his
trustee, the present petitioner, sued the Insurance Corn-

