OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Syllabus.

256 U. S.

WEBER ELECTRIC COMPANY v. E. H. FREEMAN
ELECTRIC COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.
No. 273. Argued April 21, 1921.-Decided June 6, 1921.
1. A patented device for fastening together the metal cap and sleeve
of an incandescent electric lamp socket, cons'isting of corresponding
recesses and protrusions in the inner surface of the cap and the outer
surface of the -sleeve, respectively, formed by slitting the metal
transversely and stamping it, which lock, against longitudinal movement only, by an automatic snap action when the sleeve is thrust
longitudinally into the cap (Patent No. 743,206, claims 1 and 4,
November 3, 1903), is not infringed by a construction providing
the cap with inwardly extended, riveted studs and the sleeve with
bayonet slots which lock with the studs by a longitudinal followed
by a rotative movement, and an additional stud in the cap which
snaps into a hole in the sleeve, as the rotation is completed, preventing .everse rotative movement. P. 675.
2. The patent in suit having made no provision for a lock against
rotative movement between the cap and sleeve, cannot be aided by
resort to a later patent to the same patentee, providing a slot and
projection to overcome the deficiency. P. 675.
3. In view of the prior art, the patentee's concessions made in the
patent office, and his later patent, he/d that the words "telescopically
received" and "telescopically applied," as used in the patent
in suit, must be restricted to a direct longitudinal movement or thrust
of the sleeve into the cap. P. 676.
4. One who has specifically narrowed his claim in the Patent Office
in order to secure his patent, may not afterwards, by construction
or resort to the doctrine of equivalents, give to it the larger scope it
might have had if not so amended. P. 677.
262 Fed. Rep. 768, affirmed.

THm case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Charles Neave, with whom Mr. Frank C. Curtis

was on the brief, for petitioner.

WEBER ELEC. CO. v. FREEMAN ELEC. CO. 669
668.

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Livingston Gifford, with whom Mr. David P. Wolhaupter was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JusTICE CLARKE delivered the opinion of the
court.

This is a suit for infringement of Letters Patent of the
United States, No. 743,206, granted to August Weber, Sr.,
on November 3, 1903. The District Court held claims 1
and 4 valid and infringed, but the Circuit Court of Appeals, while affirming the validity of the claims, reversed
the holding that they were infringed. A supposed conflict of this decision as to infringement with one by the
Circuit Court of Appeals of the Second Circuit, with
respect to the same patent, serves to bring the case here
for review on writ of certiorari.
The patent is a simple and, as we shall see, a narrow one.
As described in the specification it relates to new and
useful improvements in Incandescent-Electric-LampSockets, the principal object of which is to provide a
simple and effective automatic lock or connection between
the sleeve and the cap of such a socket.
Nothing new electrically or in the general form of the
cap or sleeve is claimed,-the invention relates solely to
the method of fastening the overlapping cap to the sleeve,
or, as it is sometimes called, the shell or casing.
The validity of the claims involved is conceded in argument, and, having regard to the disclaimer with respect
to claims 2 and 3, which has been filed by the petitioner
since the decision by the Circuit Court of Appeals, we
regard the issue as now narrowed to the infringement of
the fourth claim.
The familiar incandescent lamp consists of a glass bulb,
attached to a screw threaded base, adapted to be screwed
into a properly insulated block, through which the necessary electrical connections are made, and which is en-

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

closed by a cylindrical "sleeve " of sheet metal. In order
to complete the lamp this detached sleeve supporting
the bulb and inclosing the insulated block must be fitted
and securely fastened into the usual cap, which is attached
to the wall or fixture, for if the fastening should become
loose, the light might fail, or the bulb fall, or a fire hazard
be created. To invent a device by which the sleeve and
cap could be easily and securely attached to each other
and yet be readily detached when desired, was the problem to which the patentee addressed himself, and his
solution of it is thus described in the fourth claim of the
patent:
"In a device of the class described, and in combination
a pair of members comprising a sheet-metal sleeve having
a slotted end, and a sheet-metal cap adapted to telescopically receive the slotted end of said sleeve, one of said
members being provided with a recess, and the other
having a correspondingly-located transverse slit and the
wall on one 8ie thereof dispaced to form a projection bev-

eled or inclined toward said recessed member and terminating abruptly at said sli, whereby said members
are adapted to automatically interlock with a snap action
when telescopically applied to each other, and to be released by manual compression of said slotted sleeve, substantially as described."
To make the device thus described, it was only necessary to cut two transverse slits, each about one-quarter
of an inch in length, in opposite sides of the flange of an
ordinary cap, and to then, with a punch or die, force outward the upper edges or walls of the slits to the extent
desired to create the necessary "recesses " which must
"terminate " at the lower, sharp edges of the slits. A
similar operation on a slotted sleeve would produce a
similar result, but when viewed from the outer surface
of the sleeve the recesses would become the projections
of the quoted fourth claim. When such sleeve is teles-

WEBER ELEC. CO. v. FREEMAN ELEC. CO.
668.

671

Opinion of the Court.

copically applied to-pushed or pressed into-the cap, it is
obvious that with the recesses in the cap and the projections in the sleeve properly positioned and of a suitable
size, when the projections shall register with the recesses,
the resiliency of the metal will cause the two to engage
with a snap action and the sharp lower edges of the slots
in the cap will then prevent the cap and sleeve from being
separated by a longitudinal movement only, until the
sleeve shall be manually compressed to release the projections from the recesses.
It is to be noted, for it will be of significance in the interpretation of the claim involved, that it is required that
the projections on the sleeve shall be "beveled or inclined
toward said recessed member," and in the specification
it is provided that the projections shall be "beveled or
inclined from the inner end of the sleeve toward their
outer ends." With such construction it would seem
plain, even without the exhibits, which show it to be true,
that, friction aside, projections so beveled or inclined
could readily be released by rotative movement from
similarly shaped recesses without compression of the
sleeve.
It was admitted at the bar that sockets made as specified
in the patent in suit were never put upon the market,
but the record shows that with a feature added which is
covered by another patent owned by petitioner, the
socket met with large commercial success. This other
patent is No. 916,812 and was granted March 30, 1909,
to the patentee of the patent in suit and two others, on an
application filed July 18, 1904. Figures 8 and 9 from the
drawings of this patent, showing the cap and sleeve of
the petitioner's socket as manufactured by it, will aid in
describing the additional "improvement " which it made
to the device of the patent in suit and will also be of service
in comparing this device with what is claimed to be the
infringing socket of the respondent.

OCTOBER TERM 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

This patent is also for improvements in incandescent
electric lamp sockets and contains fourteen claims, of
which only the terms of the first need be noticed. It
claims as new and useful "a pair of tubular, sheet-metal
members, one adapted to telescopically receive the other,
having mutually abutting cut-metal edges on the respective members [the slot 19 in the cap and projection
20 in the sleeve], to prevent reaive rotative movement, and

automatically interlocking means for preventingf a te/ecopic
moeent of separationof one member from the other [the
recesses 17 in the cap and the projections 15 in the sleeve],
said means permitting, without manipulation thereof, the
telescopic application of the members to each other."
This language, with slight additions and omissions, not
significant, is repeated in claims 3, 13, and 14.
This device for preventing " relative rotative movement " of the cap on the sleeve is the feature which the
petitioner added to the socket of the patent in suit before
putting it upon the market and it consists, as the figure
s-upra shows, in the open slot (19) cut to the edge of the

WEBER ELEC. CO. v. FREEMAN ELEC. CO. 673
Opinion of the Court.

flange of the cap, into which passes the projection on the
sleeve (20) when the two are "telescopically applied "
to each other. This projection (20) is formed by cutting
two longitudinal slits in the sleeve and then pressing outward the narrow strip of metal between them. It is perfectly true, as stated in four of the claims and as asserted
with much emphasis in the specification, that this added
device effectively prevents any relative rotative movement of the cap and sleeve upon each other.
Coming now to the construction of the respondent,

which it is claimed infringes the fourth claim of the patent
in suit.
This (respondent's) socket has been manufactured since
1909, under patent No. 927,344, and it may most readily
be described by reference to the above figure 3 of the
drawing, which was a part of the specification of the patent.
It will be seen from this drawing that instead of outwardly extending recesses in the flange of the cap, formed

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.

Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

by slits and displacing of the metal, such as are in the
petitioner's socket, respondent's cap has four inwardly
projecting lugs (19), each of which is a separate piece of
metal riveted to the flange. Each of these lugs is circular
in outline, with a flat inner end or face and presents
abrupt shoulders on opposite sides. In the upper edge
of the sleeve are three bayonet slots of the familiar form
(14), so positioned that the studs on the cap may enter
them when the sleeve is slipped into the cap. But when
the sleeve has been telescoped, or pushed, into the cap
so that the lugs have been pressed to the end or bottom
of the longitudinal part of the bayonet slots (14) rotation
of the sleeve is obviously necessary to bring them into
the transverse parts of the slots, so that the two members

will be locked against longitudinal separation. (No such
rotative movement of the two members is mentioned in
the patent in suit, it is expressly provided against in petitioner's second patent, and it is not possible in its com-

merca socket.)
This rotative movement accomplishes a second result.
Reference to the figure, supra, shows a longitudinal slot
in the sleeve, which in the key socket affords a passage
for the key, but in the keyless socket is narrower, and
serves only to render the sleeve compressible. To the
left of this slot in the sleeve is cut a round hole (15) so
positioned that when three of the lugs in the cap are
brought by the rotative movement to the ends of the
transverse parts of the bayonet slots the fourth stud will
snap into the hole (15). This hole (15) is placed in such a
relative position that when the three lugs enter the longitudinal parts of the bayonet slots, the fourth stud rides
upon the metal near the edge of the slot in the sleeve, and
to facilitate this movement the corner of the slot (16)
is bent slightly inward. Thus the adjustment of the
studs in the cap is practically a universal adjustment
between the cap and shell, so that if any one lug is in

WEBER ELEC. CO. v. FREEMAN ELEC. CO.
668.

675

Opinion of the Court.

position to enter any bayonet slot two others WiU be in
position to enter the other bayonet slots and the fourth
will be in a position to enter the hole (15) when the sleeve
and cap have been so pressed together that the (three)
other studs have reached the ends of the longitudinal
part of the bayonet ,slots and the rotation described of
the one upon the other has been completed. A slight
compression of the sleeve suffices to release the members
when desired.
This description shows that the structural features
of the two sockets are strikingly different. Instead of
slits and outwardly extending recesses in the cap of the
one there are inwardly extended studs riveted to the cap
of the other. And instead of slits and outward projections of the sleeve to lock by snap action with recesses
in the cap against longitudinal movement in the one,
there are the bayonet slots in the sleeve to lock with
studs in the cap of the other to accomplish the same result
without snap action. But these different constructions
not only differ radically in structural features but they
do not function in the same manner, for locking against
longitudinal movement in the one is by snap action upon
direct longitudinal thrust of the sleeve into the cap,
while the other requires first a longitudinal movement
or thrust, and then a rotative movement, without which
it is entirely ineffective, whereby it locks against longitudinal movement without snap action.
But it is argued that the infringement lies especially
in the locldng hole (15) in respondent's socket and the
associated lug which operate by snap action and afford
a positive lock against rotation of the two members on
each other.
The sufficient answer to this is that the patent in suit
makes no suggestion of a lock against the rotative movement of the cap and sleeve on each other and contains no
disclosure providing for it, but, on the contrary, because

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

the beveled sides which are required by claim 4 for the
projections on the sleeve permitted such movement, a
subsequently patented addition was added to prevent it.
The petitioner can not read into the patent in suit the
additional slot in the cap and the additional projection
on the sleeve of patentee's second patent, and without
them there is no lock against rotative movement in the
socket of the first patent to be infringed by the stud
snapping into the locking hole of the sleeve of respondent's
socket.
This is sufficient to dispose of the case, but we also fully
agree with the Circuit Court of Appeals that the prior
art, the file wrapper and the second patent to the same
patentee, No. 916,812, supra, require that the expressions
in the fourth claim "telescopically received " anai "telescopically applied " mtmt be restricted to a direct longitudinal movement or thrust of the sleeve into the cap
and that for this reason the construction of respondent
requiring a rotary movement to render it effective, does
not infringe that of the petitioner.
In the application for the patent in suit this fourth
claim, originally the seventh, read as we have quoted it
omitting the words in italics. In this form it was promptly
rejected by the Patent Office on reference to the Oetting
patent, No. 642,825, and to the Kenney patent, No. 712,686, and it is clear that the chief concern of the applicant
thereafter was to distinguish his construction from that
of Kenney, which is very simil to that of respondent.
The Kenney socket has lugs in the cap and bayonet slots
in the sleeve, to lock against longitudinal movement, as
respondent's socket has, and also slots with open ends
and locking holes similarly placed in the sleeve to lock
against rotary movement when the lugs in the cap engage
with them. The chief difference between the Kenney
and respondent's socket is that in Kenney the lug passes
down the slot to a position opposite the locking hole and

WEBER ELEC. CO. v. FREEMAN ELEC. CO. 677
668.

Opinion of the Court.

then with the rotary movement mounts and rides over
the narrow strip of metal-" the bridge "-into the hole,
while in the respondent's socket the lugs having plain
faces ride on the metal near to the edge of the slot during
the longitudinal movement and from that position pass
into the locking holes with the rotative movement.
When his application was rejected by the Patent Office
on reference to the Kenney patent thus described, the
applicant, without objection or appeal, amended his claim
seven (numbering it four) by adding the words in italics
and in his explanatory "remarks," when submitting
these amendments, it was §aid: "Claim 4, originally 7,
is now drawn to a specific structure having advantages not
found in either of the references cited. By transversely
slitting the sheet metal shell and displacing the wall on
one side of said slit to form a beyeled or inclined projection the parts are permitted to be applied to each other by
8imply inserting one within the other without manually
compressing the inner member." And again, "Kenney's
device is adapted to unlock by simply rotating one member
upon another in the same manner that the parts are locked
together, no manual compression of the inner member
being necessary."
Thus the patentee, in order to avoid infringing Kenney's
construction, voluntarily restricted himself to a "specific
structure " operative when the sleeve was "simply "

inserted in the cap, without suggesting any rotary movement whatever, but, on the contrary, by his reference to
Kenney as locking and unlocking by "simply rotating
one member upon another," clearly implying that no such
rotary movement was necessary in the adjustment of his
socket. Having thus narrowed his claim against rotary
movement in order to obtain a patent, the patentee may
not by construction, or by resort to the doctrine of equivalents, give to the claim the larger scope which it might
have had without the amendments, which amount to a

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

disclaimer of rotation as an operative feature of his device.
Shepard v. Carrigan,116 U. S. 593, 598; Hubbell v. United
State, 179 U. S. 77, 80.
But that no rotary movement was implied in the use
of "telescopically received "and "telescopically applied "
in the patent in suit is further unmistakably shown by
the frequent use of the same or equivalent expressions
in the specification and claims of patentee's later patent,
No. 916,812, supra,in which claims 1,3, 13 and 14 relate
almost wholly to an improvement which renders rotation
of the members one upon the other impossible and which
petitioner added to the construction of the patent in suit
before putting the sockets upon the market. That the
inventor did not intend to claim, and that he certainly
did not disclose, that any such rotary movement was
necessary in his socket as was required to render the
socket of the respondent effective, is, we think, for these
reasons, so clear that it is not necessary to consider the
dictionary definitions of the words used, upon which the
Circuit Court of Appeals, with sound reason, relied in
reaching this same conclusion.
For the reasons thus elaborated, we conclude that the
socket of the respondent does not infringe the fourth
claim of the patent in suit because there is no claim made
therein of a lock against rotative movement of the cap
and sleeve upon each other, and also because the filewrapper and the subsequent patent show that the disclosure is, and was intended to be, limited to a construction operative by direct longitudinal movement or thrust
without such rotative movement.
The contention, pressed strenuously upon our attention, that the added open slot in the cap and projection
on the sleeve provided for in the second patent were devised simply to secure the alignment of the projections
and recesses of the first patent in making telescopic
application of the two members to each other, is not con-

WEBER ELEC. CO. t. FREEMAN ELEC. CO. 679
668.

Opinion of the Court.

vincing in the presence of the fact that claims 1, 3, 13 and
14 of the second patent are devoted almost wholly to
claiming that this improved construction is intended "to
prevent relative rotative movement " of one member
upon the other, while only claims 11 and 12 refer, quite
incidentally, to what is now claimed to be the chief function of the added parts, that of a guide to the positioning
of the recesses and projections of the first patent with
reference to each other. Without a guide, the difficulty
should not be very great of aligning projections and recesses distant from each other but a fraction of an inch
when the edges of the cap and sleeve are in contact. The
constructions held by the Circuit Court of Appeals of the
Second Circuit to infringe the patent in suit, were so
essentially different from that of the respondent that we
regard discussion of them as quito unnecessary.
It results that the decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
as to claims 1 and 4 must be
Affinned.

