OCTOBER TERIM, 1920.
Syllabus.

256 U. S.

The hearing on the counterclaim of the State of Texas,
and the taking of testi

ony thereon, is reserved for

further order.
Porbiddin filing of petitions in interventio wilkout
It iwordered that no petition in intervention may hereafter be filed herein under the order of June 7, 1920, except
upon special leave given by the court.

[253 U. S. 470.1

MISSOURI, KANSAS & TEXAS RAILWAY COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM TM COURT OF CLAIM.
No. S

lulmitted Apil 26, 1921.-Decided June 6, 1921.

1. After a railr
company had entered into a contract to carry the
mails with mtice that it would be subject to all postal laws and
regulations which were or might become applicable during the term
of the service and that the adjustment of compensation based on
wighings of the mails carried during 90 working days was subjec to further orders, as well as fines and deductions, it discontinued
Rn important trm and thereby occasioned a diversion of part of
ihe mails to other lines; the Post Office Department, upon the authority of the Act of August 24, 1912, c. 389, 37 Stat. 539, enacted
after the contract was entered into, weighed the diverted mails for
21 days and readjusted the compensation accordingly. ,Held, that
such readjustment did not violate the contract although it diminished
the compensation, and in part retroactively. P. 613. Dedawmre,
La-&awmma & Western R. R. Co. v. United States, 249 U. S. 385;
Mail Diisor Cases, 251 U. S. 326.
2. The Act of 1912, supra, allows the readjustment to be made after

a weighing of the diverted mails only, and the proviso (since repealed) that they must equal ten per cent "of the average daily

MISSOURI, KANS. & TEX. RY. v. UNITED STATES. 611
610.

Opinion of the Court.

weight on any of the routes affected," refers to the average daily
weight ascertained by the last previous general weighing. and means
ten per cent, not upon all, but upon some one, of the routes affected.
Pp. 614, 615.
3. The act also allows the readjustment to relate back to the first of
July previous to the date of the act. P. 614.
53 Ct. Clms. 641, affirmed.

TH case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Aleander Britton for appellant.
Mr. Frank Davis, Jr., Mr. J. Robert Anderson and
Mr. Joseph Stewart, Special Assistants to the Attorney
General, for the United States.
MR.JusTicE HoLMs delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a claim for $9,429.92 additional pay for carrying
mails between July 1, 1912, and July 1, 1914. The claimant had been transporting them under an adjustment of
compensation that expired on June 30, 1910. In contemplation of the usual quadrennial readjustment by
weighing, the Postmaster General sent to the claimant
the customary form of Distance Circulars to be filled out
and to be accompanied by the latest working schedules of
trains operated over the routes concerned. The circular
contained this clause: "The company named below agrees
to accept and perform mail service upon the conditions
prescribed by law and the regulations of the department
applicable to Railrcad Mail Service." The claimant
signed the circular protesting against certain regulations,
and was answered on June 30, 1910, that the department
would not enter into contract with any railroad company
by which it might be excepted from the operation or effect
of any postal laws or regulations and that it must be understood that from the beginning of the contract term named

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

and during the continuance of the service the company
would be "subject, as in the past, to all the postal laws
and regulations which are now or may become applicable
during the term of the service." In answer to a reply to
this letter it was reiterated that it must be understood
that the Company would be "subject, as in the past, to
the usual customs and practices in relation to railroad
mail service as well as to the conditions stated in my
letter" of June 30, 1910. The weighings took place and
on September 15, 1910, by a notice approved by the Postmaster General on September 22, the claimant was informed that the compensation for route No. 153010, (the
route chiefly concerned), had been fixed from July 1, 1910,
to June 30, 1914 "(unless otherwise ordered)" at certain
sums, "upon returns showing the amount and character
of the service," for the usual time-(ninety working days).
The notice added "This adjustment is subject to future
orders and to fines and deductions, and is based on a service of not less than six round trips per week." This
correspondence is relied upon by the claimant as a contract fixing its pay for four years.
In 1906 the claimant had established a fast mail train
from Parsons, Kansas, that connected with the Frisco
System train No. 3, at Vinita, Oklahoma, with further
connections that carried the mail to Houston, Galveston
and San Antonio, Texas. It had guaranteed the maintenance of the service until July 1, 1910, and was maintaining it at the time of the readjustment in that year.
Its return on the Distance Circular for route No. 153010
showed Vmita as a station where mails were put on and
put off trains, and the adjustment showed allowances for
mails from Parsons to Vinita and from Vinita to Texas.
The claimant gave no notice that the fast train would be
disontinued. Early in 1912, however, it was discontinued, the Postoffice Department protesting that it was
a violation of contract, and being compelled thereby to

MISSOURI, KANS. & TEX. RY. v. UNITED STATES. 613
610.

Opinion of the Court.

make other provisions for the mails concerned. Thereafter, on November 22, 1912, the Department ordered
the mails diverted to other lines to be weighed for twentyone days beginning on November 26, so far as such mails
could be definitely identified, the mail not to be weighed
in case of doubt-that provision of course being favorable to the road. The result was an order of February 21,
1913, approved by the Postmaster on March 1, 1913, by
which the compensation on route No. 153010 was diminished by $10,914.04 a year, from July 1, 1912, and that
of two other routes increased by $6,199.08. The claimant
contending that the whole proceeding was illegal sues
for the difference between the new and the old allowance
for the two years when the new order was enforced.
The Government justifies the Department's course
under the arrangement that we have recited, the previously existing law and the Act of August 24, 1912, c.
389, 1 4, 37 Stat. 539, 554. "When, after a weighing of
the mails for the purpose of readjusting the compensation
for their transportation on a railroad route, mails are
diverted therefrom or thereto, the Postmaster General
may, in his discretion, ascertain the effect of such diversion
by a weighing of such mails for such number of successive
working days as he may determine, and have the weights
stated and verified to him as in other cases, and readjust
the compensation on the routes affected accordingly:
Prodded,That no readjustment shall be made unless the
diverted mails equal at least ten per centum of the average
daily weight on any of the routes affected: Provided
further, That readjustment made hereunder shall not take
effect before July first, nineteen hundred and twelve, and
shall be for diversions occurring after January first, nineteen hundred and twelve." The claimant contends that
it had a contract that could not be affected by this statute
and that the statute was not followed in what was done.
The contention that the arrangement between the De-

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

256 U. B.

partment and the claimant was a contract that the statute
could not affect is sufficiently answered by Delaware,
Lackawanna & Western R. R. Co. v. United States, 249 U.
S. 385, and The Mail Divisor Cases, 251 U. S. 326, coupled
with the express notice that the railroad would be "subject to all the postal laws and regulations which are now
or may become applicable during the term of the service."
Moreover it is an extravagant interpretation of the adjustment to suppose that the railroad could discontinue an
important item of the services upon which the compensation was computed, and still demand the same pay.
The construction of the statute also seems to us to be
tolerably plain upon the points mainly argued. The
effect of the diversion of mails may be ascertained by
"a weighing of such mails " (that is, very plainly, the
diverted ones) for such number of days as the Postmaster
General may determine. This is not a recurrence to the
expensive quadrennial weighing for ninety days but a
limited investigation for a limited purpose. The result
of the last general weighing, which is sufficient to afford
a satisfactory basis for payment, is accepted by the statute
as a near enough basis for the ten per cent. test that it
creates; the object of the test being merely to show that
the diversion has been substantial. The ratio fixed had
no other importance than to indicate a case for readjustment and was not necessary even for that, as was shown
by the repeal of the proviso in a few years. ActofMay
18, 1916, c. 126, ยง5, 3 Stat. 159, 161.
The statute itself contemplates a readjustment in
respect of past services, since it was not approved until
August 24, 1912, and allows a readjustment from the first
of the previous July. As the change in the pay is made
in respect of a change that has occurred in the service by
which the current pay was fixed, the railroad suffers no
injustice, and, as we have said, by the terms of its arrangement it took the risk of such a statute being passed.

MISSOURI, KANS. & TEX. RY. v. UNITED STATES. 615
610.

Opinion of the Court.

There is an ambiguity in the words "ten per centum
on any of the routes affected." The railroad seems to
have contended that they required the diverted mails to
equal ten per cent. of the average daily weight on all of
the'routes affected. The Department construed them
to mean that it was enough if the diversion amounted
to the ten per cent. on any one of the routes. The first
interpretation that occurs to a reader may be that the
routes are considered separately and that no readjustment shall be made in respect of any route unless the
diversion on the route equals ten per cent. But the routes
mentioned are supposed to be all affected by the same
diversion and therefore are considered collectively. If a
readjustment is made as to one route it is reasonable to
take into account the offsets on others arising from the
same change. That being so there is a literal plausibility
in the railroad's contention-but having in mind what
we have suggested to be the only purpose of the requirement, we are disposed to accept the construction adopted
by the Department and the Court of Claims, that the
statute denies a readjustment only if the diverted mails
do not equal ten per cent. of the average daily weight
upon any, that is, upon some one of the routes. If the
proviso had meant them to amount to ten per cent. upon
all the routes, "all" not "any" is the word that naturally
would have been used.
Judgmeni affimed.

