PRIVETr v. UNITED STATES.
170L

Syllabu.

poses to regard the declaration of the Constitution as
paramount, and not to weaken it by refined dialectics,
or bend it to some impulse or emergency "because of

some accident of immediate overwhelming interest which
appeals to the feeling, and distorts the judgment."
Nwore

&cSwin*e

Co. v. United Stale, 193 U. S. 197,

400.
We therdore dissent.

PRIVETT ET AL. v. UNITED STATES ET AL.
APFM&L FROM TMH CIRCUIT COURT OF AZpAPL FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 2K Argued March 18, 19U.-Dedded April 18, 1921.
1. A h
allotment of a half-blood Creek Indian, who died
intestate leaving surviving issue, a member of the tribe, born since
March 4, 1906, remains inalienable under ยง 9 of the Act of May 27,
1908, c. 199, 35 Stat. 312, duridg the lifetime of such issue, until
Apil 26, 1931, if the Secretary of the Interior has not removed the
ratriefim; and a deed made by the heirs in such circumstances is
void. P. 203.
2. A finding that a surviving son of a Creek allottee was born since
March 4, 1906, dd sustained by the evidence. P. 203.
3. In a suit to set aside deedsof an Indian allotment made by the heirs
of the allottee in contravention of a restriction on alienation imposed
by Congres, wherein the validity of the conveyances depended on
the date of the birth of a surviving minor Bon of the allottee, sdd
that the United States %as in no respect concluded by a finding of
the date and a judgment upholding the conveyances, in a prior suit
in the state court between the heirs and one claiming under the
conveyances, to which suit the United States was not a party. P. 203.
261 Fed. Rep. 351, affirmed

TmE case is stated in the opinion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.

Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

Mr. Preston C. West, with whom Mr. A. A. Davidson
was on the brief, for appellants.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Garnett, with whom Mr.
H. L. Underwood, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, was on the brief, for appellees.
Ma. JusTc VAN DEVANTR delivered the opinion of
the court.
The United States brought this suit to cancel conveyances made by the heirs of a Creek Indian of land allotted
to him as a homestead out of the Creek tribal lands.
After answer and hearing the District Court granted
the relief sought and the Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the decree. 261 Fed. Rep. 351.
The allottee was an Indian of the half blood and died
intestate in 1911 leaving as his heirs a widow, an adult
daughter and a minor son, all of whom were Creek Indians. Thereafter deeds purporting to convey the land
to one Privett were executed by the heirs, the deed of
the minor son being made by his guardian. These are
the conveyances sought to be canceled, and the ground
on which they are assailed is that the minor son was
born after March 4, 1906, and therefore that the land
passed to the heirs subject to the qualification and restriction imposed by a proviso in ยง 9 of the Act of May
27, 1908, c. 199. 35 Stat. 312, which declares:
"That if any member of the Five Civilized Tribes of
one-half or more Indian blood shall die leaving issue
surviving, born since March fourth, nineteen hundred
and six, the homestead of such deceased allottee shall
remain inalienable, unless restrictions against alienation
are removed therefrom by the Secretary of the Interior
in the manner provided in section one hereof, for the use
and support of such issue, during their life or lives, until

PRIVETI"v. UNITED STATES.
201.

Opbim of the CourL

April twenty-sixth, nineteen hundred and thirty-one; but
if no such issue survive, then such allottee, if an adult,
may dispose of his homestead by will free from all restrictions; if this be not done, or in the event the issue
hereinbefore provided for die before April twenty-sixth,

nineteen hundred and thirty-one, the land shall then
descend to the heirs," etc.

The minor son is still living and, if he was born after
March 4, 1906, it is conceded that the heirs took the
land subject to the qualification and restriction imposed
by the proviso (see Parker v. Rley, 250 U. S. 66), that
there was no removal of the restriction by the Secretary
of the Interior, and that the conveyances made by the
heirs are void. But it is urged, first, that the evidence
produced at the hearing shows that the minor son was
born before, and not after, March 4, 1906, and, secondly,
that, in any event, it was settled conclusively in a prior
suit that he was born February 23, 1906.
The District Court found that the date of the son's
birth was April 23, 1906, and the Circuit Court of Appeals

acquiesced in that finding without particularly discussing
the point in its opinion. The evidence has been examined and in our opinion it amply supports the findin&
The reliance on the decision in the prior suit is illfounded. That suit was between the heirs and one who
was claiming under these conveyances, the United States
not being a party, and the decree therein pronounced the
conveyances valid. This suit is brought by the United
States in virtue of its interest in maintaining the restriction and safeguarding the Indians in the possession and
enjoyment of the lands allotted out of the tribal domain.
As yet the Indians have not been fully discharged from
the guardianship of the United States. "During the
continuance of this guardianship, the right and duty of
the Nation to enforce by all appropriate means the restrictions designed for the security of the Indians cannot

OCTOBER TER

1920.

Opinion of the Cort.

256 U. S.

be gainsaid. While relating to the welfare of the Indians,
the maintenance of the limitations which Congress has
prescribed as a part of its plan of distribution is distinctly
an interest of the United States." Heckman v. United
States, 224 U. S. 413, 437. See also La Motte v. United
States, 254 U. S. 570. "And it is no longer open to question that the United States has capacity to sue for the
purpose of setting aside conveyances of lands allotted
to Indians under its care, where restrictions upon alienation have been transgressed. .
.
Authority to enforce restrietions of this character is the necessary complement of the power to impose them. It necessarily
follows that, as a transfer of the allotted lands contrary
to the inhibition of Congress would be a violation of the
governmental rights of the United States arising from its
obligation to a dependent people, no stipulations, contracts, or judgments rendered in suits to which the Government is a stranger, can affect its interest." Bowling v.
United States, 233 U. S. 528, 534-535. As the United
States is here suing in its own interest, it is in no wise
concluded by any matter, whether of fact or law, that
may have been adjudged in the prior suit to which it was
not a party.

Decree affirmed.

