BALDWIN CO. v. HOWARD CO.
Syllabus.

28.

report, be and the same is hereby established, declared

and decreed to be the true boundary line between the
States of Arkansas and Mississippi, and said map is
directed to be filed as a part of this decree. And it appearing that the expenses and compensation of the Commissioners attendant upon the discharge of their duties,
amount to $6,116.45, it is ordered that the same be
allowed and approved as a part of the costs of this suit
to be borne equally by the parties. And it appearing
further from the report that the State of Arkansas has
paid said sum, it is hereby ordered that it be credited to
the State of Arkansas in the settlement of the costs of
this suit between the States of Arkansas and Mississippi.
It is further ordered that the Clerk of this Court do transmit to the respective Governors of the States of Arkansas
and Mississippi copies of this decree, duly authenticated,
and under the Seal of this Court, omitting from said copies
the map filed with the report.

THE BALDWIN COMPANY ET AL. v.R. S. HOWARD
COMPANY.
THE BALDWIN

COMPANY v. R. S. HOWARD
COMPANY.

APPEAL FROM AND ON PETITION FOR A WRIT OF CERTIORARI
TO THE COURT OF APPEAL3 OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
Nos. 139 and 113.

Argued January 14,1921.-Decided April 11, 1921.

1. A decision made by the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia
upon an appeal from the Commissioner of Patents under § 9 of the
Trade-Mark Act of February 20, 1905, is not reviewable in this
court by appeal or certiorari under §§ 250, 251, of the Judicial Code,

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

since such decisions are merely certified to the Commissioner to
govern his further proceedings in the case, as in patent matters
(Rev. Stats., § 4914), and are not, therefore, final judgments. P. 38.
2. Assumption of jurisdiction by this court in a case where no question
of jurisdiction was raised or considered, does not establishits jurisdiction over that class of cases. P. 40.
Appeal to review 48 App. D. C. 437, dismissed; petition for a writ of
certiorari denied.

Ti case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Lawrence Maxwell, with whom Mr. John E. Cross
was on the briefs, for appellants and petitioner.
Mr. Samuel S. Watson for appellee and respondent.
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
No. 139 is here upon an appeal from a decision of the
Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia reversing
the decision of the Commissioner of Patents.
No. 113 is an application for a writ of certiorari to review the same decision of the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia. The case is reported in 48 App. D. C.
437.
The Commissioner of Patents refused to cancel the
certificates of. registration of a trade-mark consisting of
the word "Howard "registered by the Baldwin Company,
October 17, 1905, and made a like ruling refusing to cancel
the certificate of registration of the word "Howard "
arranged in monogram with the initials "V. G. P. Co."
registered March 8, 1898, which marks were registered
as trade-marks for pianos. The appeals were heard
together in the District Court of Appeals upon the appeal
of the Howard Company.
Proceedings were brought in the Patent Office by
the Howard Compariy against the Baldwin Company to

BALDWIN CO. v. HOWARD CO.
35.

Opinion of the Court.

cancel the certificates of registration. It appears that a
suit was begun in the District Court of the United States
for the Southern District of New York by the Baldwin
Company against the Howard Company while the cancellation proceedings were pending, which resulted in a
decree in favor of the Baldwin Company restraining the
Howard Company from making or selling pianos bearing
the word "Howard," but permitting it to use the marks
"R. S. Howard Company " and "Robert S. Howard
Company." 233 Fed. Rep. 439. This decree was affirmed
by the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit.
238 Fed. Rep. 154.
The Baldwin Company filed in the Patent Office a
certified copy of the record in the federal courts in New
York, and in the Patent Office the Examiner of Interferences and the Commissioner of Patents, on appeal to
him, held that the adjudication mi the New York courts
was a bar to the claim of the R. S. Howard Company to
cancel the certificates of registration of the trade-mark
"Howard," and dismissed the petition of the Howard
Company; thereupon, appeal was taken from the decision
of the Commissioner to the Court of Appeals of the
District. That court reversed the decision of the Commissioner of Patents, and directed the clerk to certify its
decision as required by law.
The application in the Patent Office to cancel the
trade-marks was under § 13 of the Trade-Mark Act of
February 20, 1905, c. 592, 33 Stat. 728, which provides:
"SEc. 13. That whenever any person shall deem himself injured by the registration of a trade-mark in the
Patent Office he may at any time apply to the Commissioner of Patents to cancel the registration thereof. The
Commissioner shall refer such application to the examiner
in charge of interferences, who is empowered to hear and
determine this question and who shall give notice thereof
to the registrant. If it appear after a hearing before the

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

examiner that the registrant was not entitled to the use of
the mark at the date of his application for registration
thereof, or that the mark is not used by the registrant, or
has been abandoned, and the examiner shall so decide,
the Commissioner shall caneel the registration. Appeal
may be taken to the Commissioner in person from the
de-ision of examiner of interferences."
The appeal from the decision of the Commissioner to
the Court of Appeals of the District was under §9 of the
act, which provides: "SEC. 9. That if an applicant for
registration of a trade-mark, or a party to an interference
as to a trade-mark, or a party who has filed opposition to
the registration of a trade-mark, or party to an application for the cancellation of the registration of a trademark, is dissatisfied with the decision of the Commissioner
of Patents, he may appeal to the court of appeals of the
District of Columbia, on complying with the conditions
required in case of an appeal from the decision of the
Commissioner by an applicant for patent, or a party to an
interference as to an invention, and the same rules of
practice and procedure shall govern in every stage of
such proceedings, as far as the same may be applicable."
A motion is made to dismiss the appeal. No specific
provision is made for an appeal from the decision of the
District of Columbia Court of Appeals reviewing the
decision of the Commissioner of Patents, but the decision
is to be certified to the Commissioner to govern further
proceedings in the case. Section 4914, Rev. Stats.; 8
U. S. Comp. Stats., §9459.
If the decision of the Court of Appeals of the District
of Columbia is not final, then the motion to dismiss the
appeal should be sustained, and we have no authority to
grant a writ of certiorari. Judicial Code, §§ 250, 251.
The nature of proceedings of the character now under
consideration was considered in Fraschv. Moore, 211 U. S.
1, in which the opinion of Chief Justice klvey, speaking

BALDWIN CO. v. HOWARD CO.
3.5.

Opinion of the Court.

for the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia in
Rousseau v. Brown, 21 App. D. C. 73, 80, explaining the
nature of this statutory proceeding and affirming that it
did not authorize a judgment but only the return by the
Court of Appeals of a certificate to the Commissioner of
Patents, to be there entered of record to govern further
proceedings in the case, was fully approved.
In Atkins & Co. v. Moore, 212 U. S. 285, application for
registration of a trade-mark was refused by the Examiner,
which action was approved by the Commissioner, and
affirmed on appeal by the Court of Appeals of the District
of Columbia, an appeal and writ of error were allowed,
both of which were dismissed in this court. The previous
decisions of this court were reviewed by Chief Justice
Fuller, speaking for the court, and in concluding the
opinion he said: "In the light of the various details of the
Act of February 20, 1905, and of the specific provisions of
§ 9, we were of opinion [Gaines v. Knecht, 212 U. S. 5611
that proceedings under the act were governed by the
same rules of practice and procedure as in the instance of
patents, and the writ of error was accordingly dismissed.
The same result must follow in the present case. Under
§ 4914 of the Revised Statutes no opinion or decision
of the Court of Appeals on appeal from the Commissioner
precludes 'any person interested from the right to contest
the validity of such patent in any court wherein the same
may be called in question,' and by § 4915 a remedy by
bill in equity is given where a patent is refused, and we
regard these provisions as applicable in trade-mark cases
under § 9 of the Act of February 20, 1905."
We are of opinion that the principle there announced
controls this case. No provision is made which permits
this statutory proceeding to be carried beyond the decision of the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia,
the decision of which court is directed to be certified to
the Commissioner of Patents. It is in no sense a final

OCTOBER TERM. 1920.
Counsel for Parties.

256 U. S.

judgment reviewable here upon writ of certiorari or
appeal.
It is true that in Estate of Beckwith v. Commissioner of
Patents, 252 U. S. 538, this court allowed a writ of certiorari
from a decision of the Court of Appeals of the District of
Columbia, affirming a decision of the Commissioner of
Patents, in an application to register a trade-mark. No
question of the jurisdiction of the court was considered in
that case, and an inadvertent allowance of the writ of
certiorari does not establish the jurisdiction of the court.
Fritch, Inc. v. United States, 248 U. S. 458, 463.
It follows that the appeal must be dismissed, and the
petition for a writ of certiorari denied.
So ordered.

AMERICAN STEEL FOUNDRIES v. WHITEHEAD,
COMMISSIONER OF PATENTS.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
No. 131.

Argued January 12, 13, 1921.-Decided April 11, 1921.

Decided on the authority of Baldwin Co. v. Howard Co., ante, 35.
Writ of certiorari to review 49 App. D. C. 16; 258 Fed. Rep. 160, dismissed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. George L. Wilkinson for petitioner.
The Solicitor General and Mr. Assistant Attorney General
Davis, on behalf of respondent, submitted the case without
brief or argument.

