OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Counsel for the United States.

256 U. S.

UNITED STATES v. BOWLING ET AL.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT.OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH
CIRCUIT.

No. 295. Argued April 27, 1921.-Decided June 1, 1921.
1. The power of the United States to ensure, by appropriate measures,
that land allotted in severalty to a tribal Indian shall enure to the
benefit of the allottee and his heirs while the title is restricted for
their security, is no less where the allotment has been patented in
fee but subject to a restriction on alienation, than where only a
"trust patent" has issued and the fee remains with the United States
in trust to be conveyed to the allottee or his heirs free of restriotion at the end of the trust period. P. 486.
2. In either cae, as an incident of the power, Congress may authorize
and require the Secretary of the Interior to determine the heirs of
a deceased allottee and may make his decision final and conclusive.
P. 487.
8. The power of the Secretary of the Interior to determine the heirs
of deceased allottees, if, as originally granted by § 1 of the Act of
June 25, 1910, c. 431, 36 Stat. 855, it was intended to be confined
to trust allotments, was extended to allotments in f~e subject to
restriction on alienation, by the Act of August 1, 1914, c. 222, 38
Stat. 582, the first of a series appropriating money to meet the cost
of "determining the heirs of deceased India i allottees haiing Jany
right, title, or interest, in any trust or restricted allotment, under
regulations prescribed by the Secretary 'of the Interior." So hd
in view of continuous executive practice antedating the first'appropriation, whereby the heirs of allottees holding restricted fees
were determined in numerous cases, communication thereof throqgh
official reports to Congress, and provisos declaring the appropriations inapplicable to specified tribes whose allotments are of thb
restricted fee class. P. 488.
261 Fed. Rep. 657, reversed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Leslie C. Garnett, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, for the United States.

UNITED STATES v. BOWLING.
484.

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Halbert H. McCluer, with whom Mr. Vern E.
Thompson was on the brief, for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER delivered the opinion of
the court.
This was an action by the United States to recover the
possession of a tract of land in Oklahoma, with damages
for its detention and use by the defendants for several
years. The trial resulted in a judgment for the defendants, which the Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed. 261
Fed. Rep. 657.
The land was allotted and patented under the Act of
March 2, 1889, c. 422,25 Stat. 1013, to Pe-te-lon-o-zah, or
William Wea, a member of the confederated Wea, Peoria,
Kaskaskia and Piankeshaw tribes of Indians, as his distributive share of the tribal lands. The patent was
dated April 8, 1890, conveyed a fee simple title and imposed a restriction upon alienation for a period of twentyfive years from its date. Wea died intestate and seized
of the land January 23, 1894. Shortly after his death
persons claiming to be his heirs executed a conveyance
of the land and on May 4, 1914, this court affirmed a
decree against two of the present defendants canceling
that conveyance as made in violation of the restriction.
Bowling v. United States, 233 U. S. 528.
This action was commenced January 20, 1915, during
the period of restriction, and, according to the petition,
was brought in the interest of designated Indians who
were alleged to be the heirs at law of Wea, to be entitled
to the possession and to be members of the confederated
tribes and still under the supervision and guardianship
of the United States. The defendants, by their answer,
admitted that the land had been allotted and patented to
Wea and that they were in possession; denied all the
other allegations in the petition, including the heirship

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

of those in whose interest the action was brought, and
alleged that at the time of answering the defendants
were rightfully in possession under conveyances executed
by the real heirs after the restriction upon alienation
expired.
At the trial the United States, to establish the heirship
of those in whose interest the action was brought, offered
in evidence an exemplified copy of a decision by the
Secretary of the Interior, dated October 21, 1914, during
the period of restriction, finding and holding that they
were the heirs, and the sole heirs, of Wea, and stating
their respective shares. To this the defendants objected
upon the ground that the law of Congress under which
the decision was given applied only where the deceased
allottee held under a trust patent. The court sustained
the objection and no other evidence on the subject was
presented by either side. Whether the court erred in
excluding the Secretary's determination is the only
question reserved at the trial and now presented for
decision. It was not claimed that the Secretary proceeded without notice or without according all who were
interested a full hearing, but only that he had not been
empowered to determine who were the heirs where the
deceased allottee held, as did Wea, under a patent in fee,
even though the land was subject to a restriction upon
alienation.
Before coming to the acts under which the Secretary
of the Interior proceeded, it will be helpful to refer to the
modes, long in use, by which Indians are prevented from
improvidently disposing of allotted lands. One is to
issue to the allottee a written instrument or certificate,
called a trust patent, declaring that the United States
will hold the land for a designated period, usually twentyfive years, in trust for the sole use -and benefit of the
allottee, or, in case of his death, of his heirs, and at the
expiration of that period will convey the same to him, or

UNITED STATES v. BOWLING.
484.

Opinion of the Court.

his heirs, in fee, discharged of the trust and free of all
charge or incumbrance. The other is to issue at once to
the allottee a patent conveying to him the land in fee
and imposing a restriction upon its alienation for twenty-

five years or some other stated period. While alienation
is effectually restricted by either mode, allotments under
the first are commonly spoken of as trust allotments and
those under the second as restricted allotments. As
respects both classes of allotments--one as much as the
other-the United States possesses a supervisory control
over the land and may take appropriate measures to make
sure that it inures to the sole use and benefit of the allottee and his heirs throughout the original or any extended
period of restriction. 1 As an incident to this power
Congress may authorize and require the Secretary of the
Interior to determine the legal heirs of a deceased allottee
and may make that determination final and conclusive. 2
It rests with Congress to say which of the two modes
shall be followed in respect of the lands of a particular
tribe, and this ustially is done in the act directing thai
the lands be allotted. The Act of 1889, under which
the lands of the confederated tribes were allotted, required that the second mode be followed-that of issuing
a patent in fee imposing a restriction upon alienation
for a fixed period.
By § 1 of the Act of June 25, 1910, c. 431, 36 Stat. 855,
Congress provided: "That when any Indian to whom an
allotment of land has been made, or may hereafter be
made, dies before the expiration of the trust period and
before the issuance of a fee simple patent, without having
SUnited States v. Rickert, 188 U. S. 432; Tiger v. Weter

Inesl-

ment Co., 221 U. S. 286; Heckman v. United States, 224 U. S. 413;
Brader v. James, 246 U. S. 88; Talley v. Burgeas, 246 U. S. 104; La
Mote v. United State8, 254 U. S. 570.

'HallotmU v. Commons, 239 U. S. 506. And see Lane v. Mickadiet,
241 U. S.201; Egan v. McDonald, 246 U. S. 227.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

made a will disposing of said allotment as hereinafter
provided, the Secretary of the Interior, upon notice and
hearing, under such rules as he may prescribe, shall
ascertain the legal heirs of such decedent, and his decision
thereon shall be final and conclusive."
The courts below concluded from the words of this
provisicn that it was confined to trust allotments-those
held under trust patents. Separately considered, it
hardly admits of any other view; and yet other provisions
in the same section suggest that its words may not have
been happily chosen and that it may have been intended
to be more comprehensive. To illustrate, a closely following proviso declares: "That the Secretary of the
Interior is hereby authorized in his discretion to issue a
certificate of competency, upon application therefor, to
any Indian, or in case of his death, to his heirs, to whom
a patent in fee containing restrictions on alienation has
been or may hereafter be issued, and such certificate shall
have the effect of removing the restrictions on alienation
contained in such patent."
But we need not dwell upon the internal proof of what
was intended, for by a series of appropriation acts, beginning August 1, 1914, and extending to the present
time, Congress has treated and construed the provision
as including both trust and restricted allotments. Each
of the appropriation acts contains a paragraph appropriating one hundred thousand dollars to meet the cost
of "determining the heirs of deceased Indian allottees
having any right, title, or interest, in any trust or restricted allotment, under regulations prescribed by the
Secretary of the Interior," and they show affirmatively
that they refer to a determination under § 1 of the Act of
I Acts August i, 1914, c. 222, 38 Stat. 582, 586; May 18, 1916,
c. 125, 39 Stat. 123, 127; March 2, 1917, c. 146, 39 Stat. 969, 972;
May 25, 1918, c. 86, 40 Stat. 561, 567; June 30, 1919, c. 4, 41 Stat. 3, 8;
February 14, 1920, c. 75, 41 Stat. 408, 413.

UNITED STATES v. BOWLING.
484.

Opinion of the Court.

1910. Not only so, but they all contain a proviso that
"this paragraph shall not apply to the Osage Indians,
nor to the Five Civilized Tribes," which would be a needless provision if Congress had not intended that the power
to determine heirships should extend to restricted as well
as trust allotments; for the allotments to the Osages and
to members of the Five Civilized Tribes were not trust
but restricted allotments. The annual reports of the
Indian BureauI show that the officers of that bureau,
including the Secretary of the Interior, have uniformly
regarded § 1 of the Act of 1910, in connection with these
appropriation acts, as enabling them to determine the
heirs of both classes of deceased allottees, and they further
show that in each year since these appropriations began
these officers have determined the heirs of hundreds of
deceased allottees who held under restricted as distinguished from trust allotments. In one year alone the
number was 566 and of course the aggregate of the values
involved was great. These reports were regularly laid
before Congress and, with the knowledge thus obtained,
it repeated the appropriation each year. Of course, this
can be accounted for only upon the theory that in the
opinion of Congress the officers were but exercising the
power which it intended they should have and exercise.
It was after the original provision had been so construed
and supplemented by the first of the appropriation acts
that Wea's. heirs were determined by the Secretary. Apparently the appropriation acts and the reports of the
Indian Bureau were not brought to the attention of the
courts below.
We conclude that the District Court erred in sustain1House Doe. No. 90, p. 38, 64th Cong., 1st sess.; House Doc. No.
1899, p. 51, 64th Cong., 2d ss.; House Doc. No. 915, p. 53, 65th
Cong., 2d sess.; House Doe. No. 1455, p. 53, 65th Cong., 3rd sess.;
House Doc. No. 409, p. 51, 66th Cong., 2d sess.; House Doc. No. 849,
p. 45, 66th Cong., 2d sess.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Syllabus.

256 U. S.

ing the defendants' objection to the introduction in evidence of the Secretary's determination, and therefore
that the judgment must be reversed and the case remanded
for a new trial.

Judgnmt reversed.

EX PARTE IN THE MATTER OF THE STATE
OF NEW YORK ET AL., PETITIONERS.
ON PETITION FOR WRIT OF PROHIBITION AND/OR WRIT OF
MANDAMUS.
No. 25, Original.

Argued December 13, 14, 1920.-Decided June 1, 1921.

1. The power to issue a writ of prohibition to prevent a District Court
from exceeding its jurisdiction in admiralty is conferred upon this
court by Jud. Code, § 234, and may be exercised in a clear case even
where an ultimate remedy exists by appeal. Pp. 496, 503.
2. Under the Eleventh Amendment, an admiralty suit in personam
can not be brought against a State, without its consent, by an
individual, whether a citizen of the State or not. P. 497.
3. Whether a suit in admiralty is a suit against a State is determined,
not by the names of the titular parties, but by the essential nature
and effect of the proceeding as it appears from the entire record.
P. 500.
4. In suits in ren against privately owned steam tugs for injuries inflicted on libelants' barges, the tug-owners, appearing as claimants,
sought to implead the Superintendent of Public Works of the State of
New York, alleging that the damages complained of were occasioned
while the tugs were under charter to him officially and under his
operation, control and management, pursuant to the state law, and
praying that as such official he be cited into the suits to answer for
the damages and, if not found, that the goods and chattels of the
State used and controlled by him be attached. Monitions, issued
accordingly, were served on him in the district. Held, that these
proceedings against the Superintendent were in personam, and,
considering his functions under the state laws and the ultimate

