OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Counsel for the United States.

256 V.. S.

anything, dependent upon what his services contributed
in securing the congressional appropriation.
The judgment of the Court of Claims must therefore
be reversed and it is so ordered.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS and MR. JUSTICE CLARKE
took no part in the consideration and decision of this case.

UNITED STATES v. AMERICAN CHICLE COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 175. Argued January 24, 1921.-Decided June 1, 1921.

The Act of October 22, 1914, c. 331, 38 Stat. 754, imposed stamp
taxes in respect of scheduled articles and commodities "manufactured, sold, or removed for sale," including chewing-gum, taxed
on its retail value, and required manufacturers at the end of each
month to file a declaration that no such article or commodity had,
during the preceding month, been removed, carried, sent, or caused,
suffered or known to have been removed, carried or sent from their
premises, other than such as had been duly taken account of And
charged with the stamp tax. Held that, whether the tax was levied
in respect of the sale or of the manufacture, a payment by the manufacturer was contemplated, and, when chewing-gum had been
manufactured and prepared for sale, its removal to other factories
and warehouses of the manufacturer for the purpose of future sale
to wholesalers rendered the manufacturer liable. P. 448.
Reversed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

The Solicitor General, with whom Mr. R. P. Frierson
was on the brief, for the Unitecd States.

UNITED STATES v. AMERICAN CHICLE CO. 447
446.

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Charles P. Spooner for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.
The defendant in error, the petitioner below, made a
claim against the United States for $6,318.56 paid by it
for revenue stamps under the Act of October 22, 1914,
c. 331, § 5, and Schedule B, 38 Stat. 745, 754, 763, (extended by Resolution of December 17, 1915, c. 4, 39
Stat. 2, through December 31, 1916,) which it alleges
were unused after January 1, 1916, and therefore were
to be redeemed under § 24 of the Act of October 22,
38 Stat. 764, and the Act of September 8, 1916, c. 463,
§ 411, 39 Stat. 756, 793, the stamps having been purchased within two years of the application for redemption as required by the latter act. The United States
demurred to the petition and the petitioner recovered
in the District Court. The question is whether the
petition discloses facts upon which it can be said that
the goods were not "removed for sale" within the meaning
of § 5, which levies the tax upon the things mentioned
in Schedule B "manufactured, sold, or removed for sale."
The petitioner manufactures chewing gum, one of
the articles mentioned in Schedule B, and when the
product is prepared transports it from the place of preparation, in the language of the petitioner, "to one of its
other factories or warehouses, as the state of the stock
therein, or the condition of the trade, may demand."
The goods concerned "had been removed from the factory at which they were manufactured and prepared for
sale, to other factories or warehouses of petitioner in
other parts of the United States, as hereinbefore set
forth." They had upon them uncancelled revenue stamps,
but belonged to the petitioner and were subject to no
contract of sale on September 9, 1916, when the above
mentioned Act of September 8, 1916; went into effect,

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.

Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

providing for the redemption of stamps, as we have said.
The petitioner sells only to wholesale dealers, never at
retail. By its own statement it must be taken to have
removed the goods for the purposes of sale to such places
as seemed most likely to offer a market, although no
sale had taken place. It is said that upon the language
of the petition the greater part of the goods may have
been sent to other factories. But it is for the petitioner
to state a case and so far as appears, and probably in
fact, all the removals had the same end in view.
We may assume without deciding that the tax is levied
in respect of the sale rather than of the manufacture of
goods, but that throws little light upon the question of
the precise moment when it falls due. The words "sold
or removed for sale" clearly mean that it falls due in some
cases before a sale is complete. No one we presume
would doubt that if the goods were removed for the
purpose of satisfying an outstanding contract for a certain amount of chewing gum, the tax would be due at
the moment of the removal although the goods were not
yet appropriated to the contract in any binding way.
It seems to us hardly more doubtful that the same would
be true if goods were removed by a manufacturer to put
into the window of a retail shop kept by it on the other
side of the street. If we are right these examples show
that removal for the purpose of forwarding a sale is a
removal for sale within the meaning of the act. But on
the face of the petition that was the object of the transfer
of these goods to other parts of the United States.
Notwithstanding the assumption that the tax is levied
in respect of sale rather than of manufacture we agree
with the Government that the statute contemplates a
payment by the manufacturer. This is shown by §§ 17-19.
By § 20 every manufacturer of any article provided for
in Schedule B is required to file a monthly declaration
that no such article has been "removed . . . from

UNITED STATES v. AMERICAN CHICLE CO. 449
446.

Opinion of the Court.

other than
the premises of such manufacturer . .
such as have been duly taken account of and charged
with the stamp tax," under a penalty for neglect. This
seems to us to confirm the conclusion that we already
have indicated. If the petitioner should send a mass
of chewing gum from its factory in New Jersey or New
York to a more promising market in another State it
does not appear to us that it could escape the obligation
of § 20 by showing that although the gum unquestionably
had left the premises of the manufacturer it was destined
to another warehouse that the petitioner also owned.
That does not seem to us the natural or the rational
meaning of the words used. It is said that the construction of a similar Act of June 13, 1898, c. 448, 30 Stat.
448-463, was the same while that was in force, and that
presumably the later act adopted the construction. The
argument is another confirmation of the view that we
adopt.
The tax is four. cents upon packages of not more than
$1.00 of actual retail value, with four cents for each additional dollar, but this rough reference to retail price is
far from implying that the package must have been
sold in order to fix the tax. It appears to us entirely
natural that Congress should look to the original place
of manufacture as the place for the identification of the
taxable goods and to the moment of leaving it, except
in exceptional cases, as the time for the attaching of
the tax. It seems to us to have done so in sufficiently
immistakable terms.
Judgment reversed.

