OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Syllabus.

256 U. .

jurisdiction in which the trial will be with a jury instead
of one where the trial will be by the court alone, it is our
duty to give effect to its designation.
The writ of error is dismissed for want of jurisdiction
inthis court.

MISSOURI PACIFIC RAILROAD

COMPANY ET

AL v. AULT.
ERROR TO TEN SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSA&
-No.252.

Argued Larch 22, 192.-Decided June 1, 1921.

L A railroad crporation is not liable, either at commn law or under
f 10 of the Federal Control Act, upon a cause of action (imthis cm
fir wae), aring out of the operation of its railroad by the Governinmt, through the Director General of Railroads P. 557.
2. Under 110 of the Federal Control Act, if the caem of action arose
prior to government control, suit might be instituted or continued

to judgment against the owy

as though there had been

no taking over by the Government, save for the immunity of the
physeal property from levy and the power of the President to
regulate suift in the public interest: if it arose during government
operation, the "earier while under Federal control," meaning in
this onnection the transportation system as distinguished from
its corporate owner, was still liable and, by legal implication, suit
could be brought against the Government, or its operating agency,
as the legal person responsible under the existing law for such
carrier's acts. P. 561.
3. The order of the Director General of Railroads providing that suits
on cause of action arising from the operation oi any carrier during
government control should be brought against him, and for his
sultitution as defendant in pending suits of that class brought
against the carrier companies, was within his authority. P. 561.
4. The eals of 110 of the Federal Control Act declaring that the
-amer"shall be subject to all laws and liabilities as common
carriers, whether arisi under State or Federal laws or at common

MISSOURI PAC. L L CO. v. AULT.
6K

Opinion of the Court.

law," and the provision of 1 15 that the "lawfu police regulations
of the several States" shall continue unimpaired, do not permit
an action against the Director General to recover a penalty.

P. 563.
6. In an action against the Director General of Railroads, the determination whether the liability imposed by a state statute is in
the nature of compensation or penalty requires the application of
federal law and not state law; and the decision of the highest court
of a State imposing a penalty is reviewable in this court on writ of

error. P. 564.
140 Arkansas, 572, reversed; petition for writ of certiorari denied.
ERUOR to review a judgment of the Supreme Court of
Arkansas, affirming a judgment against the plaintiffs in

error in an action to recover wages and a penalty. The
facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Robert E. Wiley, with whom Mr. Edgar B. Kins-

worthy was on the briefs, for plaintiffs in error;
Mr. Frank Pace, for defendant in error, submitted.
Mr. D. D Glover and Mr. Jabez M. Smith were also on
the brief.

Mu. JuScE BLimN-xs delivered the opinion of the
court.
A statute of Arkansas provides that whenever a railroad company, or a receiver operating a railroad, shall

discharge an employee, with or without cause, it shall
pay him his full wages within seven days thereafter and
that if payment is not duly made "then as a penalty for
such nonpayment the wages of such servant or employee
shall continue from the date of the discharge or refusal to
further employ, at the same rate until paid." Kirby's
Digest, § 6649, as amended by Act of 1905, No. 210.
Proceeding under this statute, in August, 1918, Ault
brought suit before a justice of the peace against the

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. .

Musouri Pacific Railroad Company, alleging that he had
been employed by the company at the rate of $2.50 per
day, that he had been discharged on July 29, 1918, and
that $50 was then due him as wages but had not been
paid. He recovered judgment by default. The company
appealed to the Circuit Court and there moved, in January,
1919, to substitute as defendant the Director General
of Railroads. This substitution the court refused to make;
but it joined the Director General as defendant and entered judgment against both him and the company upon
a verdict that Ault recover the sum of $50 as debt and
390 as penalty. That judgment was affirmed by the
Supreme Court of Arkansas. 140 Arkansas, 572.
The President had taken possessio and control of the
)Mssouri Pacific Railroad on December 28, 1917, pursuant
to the Proclamation of December 26, 1917, 40 Stat. 1733,
under the Act of August 29, 1916, c. 418, 39 Stat. 619,
645.1 He was operating it through the Director General
under the Federal Control Act (March 21, 1918, c. 25, 40
Stat. 451) when Ault was employed, when he was dis-

charged and when the judgment under review was entered. See Transportation Act 1920, Act of February 28,
1920, c. 91, 41 Stat. 456. The company had claimed
seasonably that under the acts of Congress it could not
be held liable either for the wages or the penalty and that,
if the state and federal statutes should be construed as
creating such liability, they were in that respect void
as to it under the Federal Constitution. The Director
General did not contest liability for wages actually due,
1"The Preidemt, in time of war, i empowered, through the Secretary of War, to take loiiion and asume control of any system or
systems of tmnsportation, or any part thereof, and to utilize the same,
to the exchuion as far a may be necessary of anl other traffic thereon,

for the trander or transporttion of trops, war material and equipment, or for mch other porpem

may be needful or desirable."

eonneet

(39 Stat 645.)

with the emergen

as

MISSOURI PAC. R. R. CO. v. AULT.
554.

Opinion of the CourL

but claimed that under the legislation of Congress he was
not liable for the penalty and that. the state statute as
applied to him was void under the Federal Constitution.
The claims of both defendants having been denied by

the highest court of the State, they brought the case here
by writ of error.
First. The company is clearly not answerable in the
present action if the ordinary principles of common-law
liability are to be applied. The Railroad Administration
established by the President in December, 1917, did not
exercise its control through supervision of the ownercompanies, but by means of a Director General through
"one control, one administration, one power for the
accomplishment of the one purpose, the complete possession by governmental authority to replace for the
period provided the private ownership theretofore existing." Northern Pacific Ry. Co. v. North Dakota, 250 U. S.
135, 148. This authority was confirmed by the Federal
Control Act of March 21, 1918, c. 25, 40 Stat. 451, and the
ensuing Proclamation of March 29, 1918, 40 Stat. 1763.
By the establishment of the Railroad Administration
and subsequent orders of the Director General, the carrier
companies were completely separated from the control
and management of their systems. Managing officials
were "required to sever their relations with the particular
companies and to become exclusive representatives of
the United States Railroad Administration. " U. S. R. R.
Adm., Bulletin No. 4, pp. 113, 114, 313. The railway
employees were under its direction and were in no way
controlled by their former employers. See Bulletin No. 4,
p. 168, § 5; 198, et seq.; 330, et seq. It is obvious, therefore, that no liability arising out of the operation of these
systems was imposed by the common law upon the ownercompanies as their interest in and control over the systems
were completely suspended.
The contention that the company is liable for acts or

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court,

256 U. S.

omissions of the Director General in operating the
Missouri Pacific Railroad rests wholly upon the following
provision of § 10 of the Federal Control Act: I
"That carriers while under Federal control shall be
subject to all laws and liabilities as common carriers,
whether arising under State or Federal laws or at common
law, except in so far as may be inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or any other act applicable to such
Federal control or with any order of the President.
Actions at law or suits in equity may be brought by and
against such carriers and judgments rendered as now provided by law; and in any action at law or suit in equity
against the carrier, no defense shall be made thereto
upon the ground that the carrier is an instrumentality or
. .
But no procagency of the Federal Government.
ess, memn or final, shall be levied against any property
under such Federal controL"
It is urged that, since § 10, in terms, continues the
liability of "carriers while under Federal control " and
permits suit against them, it should be construed as subJecting the companies to liability for acts or omissions
of the Railroad Administration although they are deprived of all power over the properties and the personnel.
And it is said that this construction would not result in
hardship upon the companies since the just compensation
provided by the act would include any loss from judg'The provision in § 10 concerning suits is in tubstaee the same as
that cmltaiied in the following paragraph of the Proclamafion of the
President of December 26, 1917:
"F.ept with the prior written assent of said Director, no attachment by mesne process or'on execution shal be levied on or against
any of the property used by any of said transportation systems in
the conduct of their business as common carriers; but suits may be
bmught by and against said carriers- and judgments- rendered as
hitherto unti and except so far as said Director may, by. general or
special orders, otherwise determine.'!

MISSOURI PAC. R. R. CO. v. AULT.

554.

Opinion of the Court

ments of this sort. Such a radical departure from the
established concepts of legal liability would at least
approach the verge of constitutional power. It should
not be made in the absence of compelling language.
United States v. Delaware & Hudson Co., 213 U. S. 366,
408. There is none such here.
The plain purpose of the above provision was to preserve
to the general public the rights and remedies againscommon carriers which it enjoyed at the time the railroads were taken over by the President except in so far
as such rights or remedies might interfere with the needs
of federal operation. The provision applies equally to
cases where suits against the carrier companies were
pending in the courts on December 28, 1917; to cases
where the cause of action arose before that date and the
suit against the company was filed after it; and to cases
where both cause of action and suit had arisen or might
arise during federal operation. The Government was to
operate the carriers, but the usual immunity of the sovereign from legal liability was not to prevent the enforcement
of liabilities ordinarily incident to the operation of carriers.
The situation was analogous to that which would exist
if there were a general receivership of each transportation
system. Operation was to be continued as theretofore
with the old personnel, subject to change by executive
order. The courts were to go on entertaining suits and
entering judgments under existing law, but the property
in the hands of the President for war purposes was not
to be disturbed. With that exception the substantial
legal rights of persons having dealings with the carriers
were not to be affected by the change of control.
This purpose Congress accomplished by providing
that "carriers while under federal control " should remain subject to all then existing laws and liabilities and
that they might sue and be sued as theretofore. Here the
term "carriers " was used as it is understood in common

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

256 U. &

speech; meaning the transportation systems as distinguished from the corporations owning or operating them..
Congress had in § 1 declared that such was its meaning.
The President took over the physical properties, the
transportation systems, and placed them under a single
directing head; but he took them over as entities and they
were always dealt with as such. Bull. No. 4, p. 113,
Each system was required to file its own tariffs. General
Order No. 7, Bull. 4, p. 151. Each was required to take
an inventory of its materials and supplies. General
Order No. 10, id. p. 170. Each federal treasurer was to
deal with the finances of a single system; his bank account
was to be designated "(Name of Railroad), Federal
Account." General Order No. 37, id.p. 313. Each of
165 systems was named individually in the order promulgating the wage awards of the Railroad Wage Commission. General Order No. 27, id. pp. 198, 200. And
throughout the orders and circulars there are many such
expressions as "two or more railroads or boat lines under
federal control." See General Order No. 11, id. p. 170.1
It is this conception of a transportation system as an
entity which dominates § 10 of the act. The systems

are regarded much as ships are regarded in admiralty.
They are dealt with as active responsible parties answerable for their own wrongs. But since levy or execution
upon their property was precluded as inconsistent with
the Government's needs, the liability of the transportation
1By § 12 of the act receipts from the operation of each carrier are
the property of the United States and, unless otherwise directed by
the President, they are to be kept in the custody of the mie officers
and accounted for in the same way as before federal control Disumseiments are to be made from this fund without appropriation in

the manner provided by the accounting regulations of the Interstate
Under those regulations judgments for
Cimmere Commm
damages are chargeable to the operation of the railroad and are pay-

able out of the general receipts.

MISSOURI PAC. R. R. CO. v. AULT.
554.

Opinion of the Court.

swstem was to be enforced by allowing suit to be brought
against whoever, as the party operating the same, was
legally responsible under existing law, although it were
the Government.
Thus, under § 10, if the cause of action arose prior to
government control, suit might be instituted or continued to judgment against the company as though there
had been no taking over by the Government, save for
the immunity of the physical property from levy and the
power of the President to regulate suits in the public
interest as by fixing the venue, or the time for trial. 1 If
the cause of action arose while the Government was operating the system the "carrier while under Federal control " was nevertheless to be liable and suable. This
means, as a matter of law, that the Government or its
agency for operation could be sued, for under the existing law the legal person in control of the carrier was
responsible for its acts. See Gracie v. Palmer, 8 Wheat.
605, 632-633. The title by which suit should be broughtthe person who should be named as defendant-was not
designated in the act. In the absence of explicit direct. on,
it was perhaps natural that those wishing to sue the
carrier should have named the company as defendant
when they sought to hold the Government liable. It
doubtless seemed, as suggested in McNulia v. Lochridge,
141 U. S. 327, 331-332, that suit should be brought against
the transportation company "by name 'in the hands of,'
or 'in the possession of,* a receiver," or Director General.
All doubt as to how suit should be brought was cleared
'M uir v. Lmui4ville & Nashrille R. R. Co., 247 Fed. Rep. 8; Wainwright v. Penn. yhania R. R. Co., 25.3 Fed. Rep. 459; Di Temme-o v.

Lehigh & New England R. R. Co.. 2S Pa. Dist. 473: Bolton v. Hines.
143 Ark. 601; Le Clair v. Mon epelier & WeI1 Rirer R. R. Co., 93 Vt.

92; Benjamin Moore & Co. v. Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe Ry. Co.,
174 N. Y. S. 60; Special Rules of Practice During Federal Control,
50 L C. C. 797, 798.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

away by General Order No. 50, which required that it
be against the Director General by name.,
As the Federal Control Act did not impose any lia-

bility upon the companies on any cause of action arising
out of the operation of their systems of transportation
by the Government, the provision in Order No. 50,
authorizing the substitution of the Director General as
defendant in suits then pending was within his power;
the application of the Missouri Pacific Railroad Company
that it be dismissed from this action should have been
granted; and the judgment against it should, therefore,
be reversed. 2
"-1 is thwq4 we ordered, that actions at law, mits in equity, and
proceedings in admiralty hereafter brought in any court based on cokact, bmdmg upon the Director General of Raihuads, claim for death or
injury to person, or for loss and damage to property, arising since
December 31, 1917, and gowing out of the possession, use, control,
or operation of any railroad or system of transportation by the Director
General of Rairoads, which action, suit, or proceeding but for Federal
control might have ben brought against the carrier company, shall
be brought against William G. MeAdoo, Director General of Railroads,
and not otherwise; provided, however, that this order duh[ not apply

to action, suits or prceding for the recovery of fines, penalties and
fiWfefies

...

"Ile pleadinga in all such actions at law, suits in equity, or proceedins in admiralty, now pending against any carrier company for a
caue of action aising since December 31, 1917, based upon a cause
of action aising from or out of the operation of any railroad or other
earier, may on application be amended by substituting the Director
General of Railroads for the carrier company as party defendant and
dism
the company therefrom."
2 The great weight of authority in the federal courts is in favor of
this view. See Ruiherford v. Union Pacific R. R. Co., 254 Fed. Rep.
880; Dahn v. McAdoo, 256 Fed. Rep. 549; 267 Fed- Rep. 105; Mardis
v. Mins, 258 Fed. Rep. 945; 267 FedL Rep. 171; Hakhr & Sy jder v.
Afkkiso, Topeka & &8da Fe Ry. Co., 258 Fed. Rep. 952; Haubert v.
Baiufimme & Ohio R. R. Co., 259 Fed. Rep. 361; Nash v. Southern Padfic
Co., 260 Fed. Rep. 280; Wedkvo v. DirecOr General, 263 Fed. Rep.
211; Elains v. Hina, 264 Fed. Rep. 1005; Erie R. R.Co. v. CaldweU,

MISSOURI PAC. R. R. CO. v. AULT.
554.

Opinion of the Court.

Second. The contention that the Director General,
being the carrier, is liable for the penalty imposed by the
Arkansas statute is rested specifically upon the clause
in § 10 to the effect that the carriers "shall be subject
to all laws and liabilities as common carriers, whether
arising under State or Federal laws or at common law,"
and the provision in § 15 that-the "lawful police regulations of the several States " shall continue unimpaired.
By these provisions the United States submitted itself
to the various laws, state and federal, which prescribe
how the duty of a common carrier by railroad should be
performed and what should be the remedy for failure to
perform. By these laws the validity and extent of claims
against the United States arising out of the operation of the
railroad were to be determined. But there is nothing
either in the purpose or the letter of these clauses to indicate that Congress intended to authorize suit against
the Government for a penalty, if it should fail to perform
the legal obligations imposed. The Government undertook as carrier to observe all existing laws; it undertook
to compensate any person injured through a departure
by its agents or servants from their duty under such law;
but it did not undertake to punish itself for any departure
by the imposition upon itself of fines and penalties or to
permit any other sovereignty to punish it. Congress is
264 Fed. Rep. 947; Pullman Co. v. Sweeney, 269 Fed. Rep. 764; Hines
v. Smith, 270 Fed. Rep. 132. Contra, Jensen v. Lehigh Valley R. R.
Co., 255 Fed. Rep. 795; Johnson v. McAdoo, 257 Fed. Rep. 757; Dampskibs v. Hustis, 257 Fed. Rep. 862; The Catwissa, 257 Fed. Rep. 863.
The cases in the state courts show a considerable diversity of view.

See Commomcealth v. Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co., 189 Ky. 309;
MeGrath v. Northern Pacific Ry. Co., 177 N. W. Rep. (N. D.) 383;
Peacock v. Detroit, G. H. & M. Ry. Co., 208 Mich. 403; Case v. Southern Ry. Co., 112 S. Car. 407; Robinson v. Central of Georgia Ry. Co.,
150 Ga. 41; Galceston, H. & & A. Ry. Co. v. Wurbah, 219 S.W. Rep.
(TeL-)252. Contra, Mobile & Ohio R. R. C). v. Jobe, 122 Miss. 696;
Ringquis v. Duluth, M. & N. Ry. Co., 145 Minnesota, 147.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.

Opinion o the Court

256 U. &

not to be assumed to have adopted the method of fines
paid out of public funds to insure obedience to the law
on the part of the Government's railway employees.
The Director General adopted a much more effective
and direct method: "Now that the railroads are in the
posession and control of the Government, it would be
futile to impose fines for violations for said laws and
orders upon the Government, therefore it will become the
duty of the Director General in the enforcement of said
laws and orders to impose punishment for willful and
iexcusable violations thereof upon the person or persons responsible therefor." General Order No. 8, id.
p. 167.
The purpose for which the Government permitted
itself to be sued was compensation, not punishment.
In isuing General Order No. 50, the Director General

w careful to confine the order to the limits set by the
act, by concluding the first paragraph of the order, "provided, however, that this order shall not apply to actions,
suits, or proceedings for the recovery of fines, penalties,
and forfeiture&" Wherever the law permitted compensatory damages they may be collected against the
carrier while under federal control. Such damages may
reasonably include interest and costs. See Hines v.
Taylor, 79 Florida, 21& But double damages, penalties
and forfeitures, which do not merely compensate but
punish, are not within the purview of the statute. See
Hines v. Taylor, supra; Jackson-Tweed Lumber Co. v.
Souhern Ry. Co., 113 S. Car. 236. The amount recovered
in the present case over and above the wages due and unpaid with interest is in the nature of a punishment. It
is called a penalty in the state statute. The Supreme
Court of Arkansas had held that it was not technically a
penalty, declaring: "It is allowed for a double purpose,
as a compensation for the delay, and as a punishment
for the failure to pay. It is composed of all the elements

NORFOLK-SOUTHERN R. R. CO. v. OWENS.
554.

565

Counsel for Parties.

and serves all the purposes of exemplary damages."
Leep v. Railway Co., 58 Arkansas, 407, 440-441. But
whether in a proceeding against the Director General
it shall be deemed compensation or a penalty presents a
question not of state, but of federal law. Whatever name
be applied, the element of punishment clearly predominates and Congress has not given its consent that suits of
this character be brought against the United States.
The judgment against the Director General, so far as it
provided for recovery of the penalty, was erroneous.
The case is properly here on writ of error. The petition
for writ of certiorari, consideration of which was p-st
poned to the hearing on the merits, is therefore denied.
Judgmnent reversed.

NORFOLK-SOUTHERN RAILROAD COMPANY
v. OWENS.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
NORTH CAROLINA.
No. 223.

Argued March 17, 1921.-Decided June 1,1921.

A railroad corporation, while its road was under federal control, was
not liable for a penalty prescribed by a state law, for delay in delivery of an intrastate shipment. Missouri Padfic R. R. Co. v.

AidS, are,554.
178 N. Car. 325, reversed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. W. B. Rodman, Jr., for petitioner.
No appearance for respondent.

