EX PARTE STATE OF NEW YORK, NO. 2.
490.

503

Syllabus.

as a body of substantive law operative alike upon all who
are subject to the jurisdiction of the admiralty, and binding upon other courts as well. Chelentis v. Luckenbach S.
S. Co., 247 U. S. 372, 382, 384. It is not inconsistent in
principle to accord to the States, which enjoy the prerogatives of sovereignty to the extent of being exempt
from litigation at the suit of individuals in all other

judicial tribunals, a like exemption in the courts of
admiralty and maritime jurisdiction.
The want of authority in the District Court to entertain these proceedings in personam under Rule 59 (now
56) brought by the claimants against "Mr. Walsh as
Superintendent of Public Works of the State of New
York is so clear, and the fact that the proceedings are
in essence suits against the State without its consent
is so evident, that instead of pernmitting them to run their
slow course to final decree, with inevitably futile result,
the writ of prohibition should be issued as prayed. Ex
park Simons, 247 U. S. 231, 239; Ex parte Peterson, 253
U. S. 300, 305.
Rule absolute for a writ of prohoition.

EX PARTE IN THE MATTER OF THE STATE OF
NEW YORK ET AL., OWNERS OF THE STEAM
TUG QUEEN CITY, PETITIONERS.
ON PETITION FOR WRIT OF PROHIBITION AND/OR WRIT
OF MANDAMUS.
No. 28, Original.

Argued December 14, 1920.-Deded June 1, 1921.

1. The facts that a vessel, libeled in the District Court, is the property

of a State, in its possession and control and employed in its public
governmental service, may be established, primafacie, at least, by

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Argument for Respondents.

256 U. S.

a suggestion verified and filed by the attorney general of the State,
in his official capacity, in connection with his special appearance and
objection to the jurisdiction. P. 509. Ez parte Muir, 254 U. S. 522,
. distinguished.
2. Under the admiralty law, a vessel owned and possessed by a State
and employed exclusively for its governmental purposes, is exempt
from seizu-e in a suit to recover damages for a death caused by her
negligent operation. P. 510.
Rule absolute for writ of prohibition.

PROHMMON to restrain proceedings in admiralty in
the District Court. The case is stated in the opinion,

post, 508.
Mr. Edward G. G ffin, with whom Mr. Charles D.
Newton, Attorney General of the State of New York, and
Mr. George A. King, were on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. Irving W. Cole, with whom Mr. Thomas P. Haley
was on the brief, for respondents:
There can be no question but that originally the District Court had jurisdiction, under the facts set forth in
the libel. It is not claimed otherwise, but only that something has been since extraneously suggested which ousts
such jurisdiction-the ownership of the re8 by the State.
It is, therefore, not a question of jurisdiction, but whether,
in such a situation, the powers of a court, originally having jurisdiction, and the jurisdiction itself, are destroyed,
or still exist and should be continued over the subjectmatter to judgment.
The objections to such continuance now interpQsed by
the State, we say, should properly be interposed according
to the requirements of proceedings and practice in admiralty courts, by appearing and claiming ownership and
excepting or answering to the libel, setting forth the
grounds. Then a plea based on the sovereign attributes
of the State could be heard, and, if overruled, appeal

EX PARTE STATE OF NEW YORK, NO. 2.
50.

505

Argument for Respondents.

could be taken as a matter of right to the Circuit Court
of Appeals and from there to this court. The Steamship
Jefferson, 215 U. S. 130; The Ira M. Hedges, 218 U. S.
264; Illinois Central R. R. Co. v. Adams, 180 U. S. 28;
South Carolinav. Wesley, 155 U. S. 542.
This suit in its present form is purely in rem. A question may arise whether such a suit, when not in personam,
can be maintained under the New York Death Statutes
(§§ 1902, 1903, 1904, 1905, New York Code Civil Procedure). This, however, is not a ground for prohibition,
Ex parte Gordon, 104 U. S. 515; nor is any such ground

urged here.
If, however, the owner of the vessel or any claimant
shall appear and proceed by claim, and exception or
answer, according to the usual practice in admiralty,
libelants will be formally advised as to who the person,
or corporation, or State is that may be liable in personam.
Having become so informed libelants may procure the
libel to be amended, making such person, corporation,
or State, as well as the vessel, a party, and will then have
the advantage of a suit in personam as well as in rem to
meet any objection to the suit raised by exception or
defense, and have a chance to litigate it. For instance,
the master or captain sailing the vessel at the time or
the superintendent of the canals having charge of the
vessel and who authorized its use at the time, might
either or both be personally liable. The State itself, if it
owns the boat and was operating it as a master of servants
in immediate charge of it, might be claimed to be privy
to the negligence or wrong and liable in permam, at least
in a suit in admiralty. Canal Law, § 47; Code Civ. Proc.,

§264.
The question might arise as to whether the State has
waived its immunity from liability to libelants, if that
be necessary to recovery. The State owns and operates the canals for commercial purposes. It has waived

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Argument for Respondents.

256 U. S.

its immunity from liability for damages caused in such
operation, to a large extent at least, by §47 of the State

Canal Law. Has the State waived its immunity from
liability to libelants for the damages they have suffered

as alleged? Is the State while operating a vessel on its
canals for commercial purposes for pay, through officers
and employees, engaged thereby in such governmental

functions as will prevent a court of admiralty from exercising powers exclusively lodged in it?
All these questions may become important, as under
Workman v. New York Ciij, 179 U. S. 552, where they
were litigated in the regular and proper way on the
merits and not by writ of prohibition.
It is well established that the writ of prohibition lies
only where the District Court clearly had no jurisdiction
of the case originally and where the relator has no other
remedy.
Where a district court has jurisdiction the writ does
not lie to restrain it from proceeding to exercise such
jurisdiction, Morrison v. District Court, 147 U. S. 14; but
will issue only in case of want of jurisdiction either of the
parties or the subject-matter of the proceeding and cannot be used as a substitute for exception to a libel for insufficiency. In re Fasset, 142 U. S. 479. It will not
issue to restrain the court from proceeding in a libel case
against a vessel for damages for drowning a person in a
collision. Ex parte Gordon, 104 U. S. 515; Ex parte Detroit
River Ferry Co., 104 U. S. 519. It cannot be used to
correct errors of a court in deciding matters of law or fact
within its jurisdiction, Smith v. Whitney, 116 U. S. 167;
and will be issued only on the record in the suit. Ez
parte Easton, 95 U. S. 68. The record of the suit shows

jurisdiction perfect.
We say, therefore, that this is not a case for prohibition,
but the grounds urged for the prohibition should be disposed of when raised in the regular and usual manner

EX PARTE STATE OF NEW YORK, NO. 2.
50{3.

507

Argument for Respondents.

on the merits of the case. Scully v. Bird, 209 U. S.
481.
The body of admiralty law and the federal judicial
power in admiralty and maritime jurisdiction are paramount and exclusive over and against everything except
the sovereignty of the Federal Government itself, and
foreign sovereignties having treaty rights. They recognize
but one sovereignty in the United States, that of the
Federal Government. Nor can there be but one sovereign
power over the same thing at the same time. As to this
body of law and these judicial powers, the States have
surrendered both their sovereign powers and sovereign
privileges under the Constitution. The State can have
or enact no law contravening or affecting them. Nor can
it urge its sovereign attributes to accomplish the same
results. To hold otherwise would be a contradiction.
Workman v. New York City, 179 U. S. 552; The Lake
Monroe, 250 U. S. 246; Knickerbocker Ice Co. v. Stewart,
253 U. S. 149; Southern Pacific Co. v. Jensen, 244 U. S.
205; Union Fish Co. v. Ericson, 248 U., S. 308.
It is immaterial to whom the vessel proceeded against
in admiralty belongs. Clark v. New Jersey Steam Navigation Co., Fed. Cas. No. 2,859; The John G. Stevens, 170
U. S. 113; The Siren, 7 Wall. 152.
The question as to the limits of maritime law and
admiralty jurisdiction is exclusively a judicial question.
The Lotlawanna, 21 Wall.558; Ex parteEaston,95 U. S. 68.
The jurisdiction depends not on the character of the
parties but on the subject-matter. The Jerasalem, Fed.
Case. No. 7,293; De Lovic v. Boit, Fed. Cas. No. 3,776;
Clark v. New Jersey Steam Navigation Co., supra.
The use of the words "admirlty" and "maritime"
in the Constitution relates simply to subject-matter and
embraces all cases arising under the general maritime
law. Waring v. Clarke, 5 How. 441, 473.
The vessel in question being, and having committed the

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the CourL

256 U. S.

marine tort, in maritime waters was under the exclusive
sovereignty of the United States and within the exclusive
federal judicial power. The State cannot, by reason of
its sovereignty as to other matters and things, oust or

limit either the federal sovereignty or the jurisdiction and
powers of the federal courts over the ree, the vesseL
MJ. JUSTCE PNEy delivered the opinion of the court.
In October, 1920, Martin J.McGaban and another, as
administrators of Evelyn McGahan, deceased, filed a
libel in admiralty in the District Court of the United
States for the Western District of New York against the
Steam Tug Queen City, her tackle, apparel, and furniture
to recover damages alleged to have been sustained through
the death of deceased by drowning, due to the negligent
operation of the Queen City upon the Erie Canal, in said
district. The Attorney General of the State of New
York appeared specialy for the purpose of questioning
the jurisdiction of the court, and filed a verified suggestion
of the want of such jurisdiction over the Queen City, for
the reason that at all times mentioned in the libel and at
present she was the absolute property of the State of
New York, in its possession and control, and employed in
the public service of the State for governmental uses
and purposes, and, at the times mentioned in the libel,
was authorized by law to be employed only for the public
and governmental uses and purposes of the State of New
York, such purposes being the repair and maintenance
of the Improved Erie Canal, a public work owned and
operated by the State, and particularly the towing of
dredges, the carrying of material and workmen, the towing of barges and vessels containing material, and the
setting, replacing, and removing of buoys and safety
devices. He prayed that the vessel be declared immn
from process and free from seizure and attachment, and

EX PARTE STATE OF NEW YORK, NO. 2.
503.

509

Opinion of the Court.

that the libel and all proceedings thereunder be dismissed
for want of jurisdiction.
The District Court overpuled the suggestion and
awarded process in rem, under which the Queen City was
arrested. Thereupon the Attorney General, in behalf of
the State, filed in this court, under leave granted, a
petition for a writ of prohibition to require the District
Court to desist from further exercise of jurisdiction and
for a mandamus to require the entry of an order declaring
the Queen City to be immune from arrest. An order to
show cause was issued, to which the District Judge made
return, embodying by reference the admiralty proceedings; and the matter was argued together with No. 25,
Original,Ex parteNew York, No. 1, just decided, ante, 490.
To the suggestion that the Queen City is the property
of the State of New York, in its possession and control
and employed in its public governmental service, it is
objected at the outset that the record and proceedings
in the suit in admiralty do not disclose the identity of
the owner of the vessel or that she was employed in the
governmental senice of the State. We deem it clear,
however, that the verified suggestion presented by the
Attorney General of that State, in his official capacity
as representative of the State and the People thereof,
amounts to an official certificate concerning a public
matter presumably within his official knowledge, and that
it ought to be accepted as sufficient evidence of the fact,
at least in the absence of special challenge. The suggestion was overruled and denied, with costs, and process
thereupon ordered to issue against the vessel, without
any intimation that there was doubt about the facts
stated in the suggestion, or opportunity given to verify
them further. It would be an unwarranted aspersion
upon the honor of a great State to treat facts thus solemnly
certified by its chief law officer, and accepted as true
when passed upon by the District Court, as now requiring

OCTOBER TERM, 192D.
Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

verification. Ex parte Muir, 254 U. S. 522, differs widely,
for there the suggestion that the vessel was exempt because of its ownership and character came not through
official channels but from private counsel appearing as
amici muiw, who, on being challenged to submit proof
in support of the allegations in the suggestion, refused
to do so. Of course, there were other and more fundamental differences, but it is the one mentioned that especially concerns us upon the question of practice.
Accepting, as we do, the facts stated in the suggestion
of the Attorney General, the record-aside from whether
a suit in admiralty brought by private parties through
process in rem against property owned by a State is not in
effect a suit against the State, barred by the general principle applied in Ex parteNew York, No. 1, No. 25, Original
-- presents the question whether the proceeding can be
based upon the seizure of property owned by a State and
used and employed solely for its governmental uses and
purposes.
By the law of nations, a vessel of war owned by a friendly
power and employed in its service will not be subjected
to admiralty process; and this upon general grounds of
comity and policy. Swoner Exchange v. McFaddon, 7
Cranch, 116, 144-147. In a case before Judge Francis
Hopkinson in the admiralty court of Pennsylvania in
1781, on a plea to the jurisdiction, it was adjudged that
marines enlisting on board a ship of war or vessel belonging
to a sovereign independent state could not libel the ship
for their wages. Moitez v. The South Carolina,Bee, 422;
Fed. Ces. No. 9,697. The question whether by international law the rule of The Echange is to be applied
to other kinds of public vessels owned or controlled by
friendly powers (see The Parlement Belge [1880], L. R. 5
Prob. Div. 197), was stirred in Ex parte Muir, 8upra, but
found unnecessary to be decided. It does not now press
for solution; for, aside from the obligations of inter-

EX PARTE STATE OF NEW YORK, NO. 2.
508.

511

Opinion of the Court.

national law, though upon principles somewhat akin, it
is uniformly held in this country that even in the case of
municipal corporations, which are not endowed with
prerogatives of sovereignty to the same extent as the
States by which they are created, yet because they exercise the powers of government for local purposes, their
property and revenue necessary for the exercise of those
powers are to be considered as part of the machinery of
government exempt from seizure and sale under process
against the city. As Mr. Chief Justice Waite said, speaking for this court in Klein v. New Orlean8, 99 U. S. 149,
150, "To permit a creditor to seize and sell them to
collect his debt would be to permit him in some degree
to destroy the government itself." The rule was applied
in the admiralty by the same learned Chief Justice, sitting
on appeal at the circuit, in The Fidelity, 16 Blatchf. 569;
Fed. Cas. No. 4,758, upon a well-considered opinion.
To the same effect, The Seneca (1876), Fed. Cas. No.
12,668; Long v. The Tampico (1883), 16 Fed. Rep. 491,
494;- The Protector (1884), 20 Fed. Rep. 207; The F. C.
Latrobe (1886), 28 Fed. Rep. 377, 378; The John McCraken,
145 Fed. Rep. 35, 706.
The principle so uniformly held to exempt the property
of municipal corporations employed for public and governmental purposes from seizure by admiralty process in
rein, applies with even greater force to exempt public
property of a State used and employed for public and
governmental purposes.
Upon the facts shown, the Queen City is exempt, and
the prohibition should be issued.
Rule absolute for a writ of prohibtion.

