SEABOARD AIR LINE RY. v. UNITED STATES.

66

Opinion of the Court.
SEABOARD

AIR LINE

RAILWAY v.

UNITED

STATES.
APPEAL F.3OM THE COURT OF CLAEMS.
No. 62.

Argued

March

16, 1920; restored to docket for reargu-

meat November 15, 1920; reargued April 12, 1921.-Deided June 6,
1921.

Section 3477 of the Revised Statutes, forbidding all tranders and
assignments of any claim upon the United States before its allowance, etc., was intended to prevent frauds upon the Treasury, and
does not apply to a transfer resulting from the consolidation of two

railroad corporations whereby, pursuant to their agreement and
the laws of their respective States, the rights, franchises, property,
and choses in action of each ar transerred to and becone vested

in the consolidated corporation. P. 656.
53 Ct. Clms. 107, reversed.
THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Benjamin Carter, with whom Mr. Frank Carter
Pope was on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Davis, with whom Mr.
Crowley Wentworth, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, was on the brief, for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE McREyNoLDm delivered the opinion of the

court.
Appellant sued in the Court of Claims to recover balances for transportation services originally payable to
the Florida Central & Peninsular Railroad Company, to
whose rights it had succeeded through merger or consolidation. Holding that because of ยง 3477, Rev. Stats.
(9 Stat. 41, and 10 Stat. 170), appellant could not maintain the action, that court dismissed its petition.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

Section 3477-" All transfers and assignments made
of any claim upon the United States, or of any part or
share thereof, or interest therein, whether absolute or
conditional, and whatever may be the consideration therefor, and all powers of attorney, orders, or other authorities
for receiving payment of any such claim, or of any part
or share thereof, shall be absolutely null and void, unless
they are freely made and executed in the presence of at
least two attesting witnesses, after the allowance of such a
claim, the ascertainment of the amount due, and the
issuing of a warrant for the payment thereof."
The Seaboard Air Line Railway was originally chartered under the laws of Virginia; by authorized union
with others, it became a consolidated corporation under
the laws of Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina,
Georgia, and Alabama; and in 1903 under "Articles of
agreement of merger and consolidation " and the statutes
of Georgia and Florida (ยง2173, Code of Ga. 1895; ยง 2812,
Gen. Stat. of Fla.), the Florida Central & Peninsular
Railroad, a Florida corporation, was united with it. As
agreed and provided by the laws of the two States, the
rights, privileges, franchises, and all property, real, personal, and mixed, and all debts on every account, as well
as stock subscriptions and other things in action belonging to each of the constituents, were transferred to and
vested in the consolidated corporation without further
act or deed, "as effectually as they were in the former
companies."
Section 3477 has been before this court many times for
construction and application. United States v. Gillis, 95
U. S. 407; Erwin v. United States, 97 U. S. 392; Spofford v.
Kirk, 97 U. S. 484; Goodman v. Niblack, 102 U. S. 556;
St. Paul & Duluth R. R. Co. v. United States, 112 U. S.
733; Bailey v. United States, 109 U. S. 432; Butler v.
Goreley, 146 U. S. 303; Hager v. Swayne, 149 U. S. 242;
Ball v. Halsell, 161 U. S. 72; Price v. Forrest, 173 U. S. 410.

SEABOARD AIR LINE RY. v. UNITED STATES.
655.

657

Opinion of the Court.

In Erwin v. United States, Goodman v. Niblack, and
Price v. Forrest, certain exceptions to the general language of the section were recognized because not within
the evil at which the statute aimed. It was intended to
prevent frauds upon the Treasury, and the mischiefs
designed to be remedied "are mainly two: First, the
danger that the rights of the government might be embarrassed by having to deal with several persons instead of
one, and by the introduction of a party who was a stranger
to the original transaction. Second, That, by a transfer
of such a claim against the government to one or more
persons not originally interested in it, the way might be
conveniently opened to such improper influences in
prosecuting the claim before the departments, the courts,
or the Congress, as desperate cases, when the reward is
contingent on success, so often suggest."
We cannot believe that Congress intended to discourage,
hinder or obstruct the orderly merger or consolidation
of corporations as the various States might authorize for
the public interest. There is no probability that the
United States could suffer injury in respect of outstanding
claims from such union of interests and certainly the result would not be more deleterious than would follow their
passing to heirs, devisees, assignees in bankruptcy, or
receivers, all of which changes of ownership have been
declared without the ambit of the statute. The same
principle which required the exceptions heretofore approved applies here.
The judgment of the court below is reversed and the
cause remanded with direction to afford reasonable
Qpportunity to both sides for taking any additional proof
rendered necessary by the withdrawal by the United
States of a stipulation upon which reliance had been
placed; and for further proceedings in conformity with
this opinion.
Reversed.

