OCTOBER TER.M, 1920.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

256 U. S.

OWN13EY v. MORGAN ET AL., EXECUTORS OF
MORGAN.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF

DELAWARE.
No. 99.

Argued November 18, 1920.-Decided April 11, 1921.

1. The Delaware rule in foreign attachment cases which conditioned
the defendant's right to appear and contest the merits of the plaintiff's demand upon his first giving special bail or (as the rule was
amended) a surety's undertaking, and which was in force since
colonial days, finding its origin in the Custom of London and its
counterparts or analogues in procedure adopted by other colonies
and States and familiar in the common law and admiralty, cannot
be regarded as an arbitrary and unreasonable rule, violative of the
due proces clause of the Fourteenth Amendment (DeL Rev. Code,
1915, 4123, § 6). Pp. 102, 108.
2. Nor may the rule be adjudged obnoxious to due process in a particular case where, through exceptional misfortune, a defendant was
unable to furnish the necessary security. P. 110.
3. One who acquires property in a State and departs must be presumed to have known and consented to such a rule of foreign attachment, already in force. P. 111.
4. A distinction made in foreign attachment cases between non-resident individuals and foreign corporations, requiring the individual
to furnish special security before appearing and making defense
but allowing the corporation to defend on the security of the attachment lien, held not a denial to individuals of equal protection of
the law. P. 112.
5. The privileges and immunities referred to in the Fourteenth Amendment are such as owe their existence to the Federal Government,
its national character, its Constitution, or its laws. P. 113.
30 Delaware, 297, affirmed.
THE case is stated in the opinion, post, 98.

Mr. Louis Marshall for plaintiff in error:
The statutes of Delaware and the proceedings taken
thereunder in this case are unconstitutional and void, in

OWNBEY v. MORGAN.
94.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

that plaintiff in error was thereby deprived of his property without due process of law. The essential elements
of due process, namely, the right to appear and to be
heard in defense of the action in which plaintiff in error's
property was attached, are lacking here. Eckerson v.
Board of Trustees of Haverstraw, 151 N. Y. 75; City of
Rochester v. Holden, 224 N. Y. 386, 396; Hovey v. Elliott,
167 U. S. 409; McVeigh v. United States, 11 Wall. 259;
Windsor v. McVeigh, 93 U. S. 274; Scott v. McNeal, 154
U. S. 34; Roller v. Holly, 176 U. S. 398, 408, 409; Central
of Georgia Ry. Co. v. Wright, 207 U. S. 127; Londoner v.
Denver, 210 U. S. 373, 385; Denver v. State Intetment
Co., 49 Colorado, 244; Wetmore v. Karrick, 205 U. S. 141;
Ochoa v. Hernandez, 230 U. S. 139, 161; Riverside Mills
v. Menefee, 237 U. S. 189; Pennington v. Fourth National
Bank, 243 U. S. 269, 270, 273; Saunders v. Shaw, 244
U. S. 317; Coe v. Armour Fertilizer Works, 237 U. S. 413.
The contention that the foreign attachment laws of Delaware derive their existence from the Custom of London
and date from the colonial period, even if sound, cannot
avail against the prohibition'of the Fourteenth Amendment. The Delaware statute as interpreted does not provide the safeguards that constituted the essential features
of the Custom of London. [Quoting Drake on Attachment, Sergeant on Foreign Attachments, Locke on Foreign
Attachment, and pointing out variances between the
Delaware statute and the Custom of London.] But even
if, at the time of its enactment, the statute were to be
regarded as a statutory adoption of the local law of London, it ceased to be valid when the Fourteenth Amendment went into effect, especially in view of the departure
in the other States of the Union from the practice of
permitting property to be seized in foreign attachment
without affording the defendant an opportunity to appear and litigate the plaintiff's claim even though no security for the payment of any judgment that might be

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

256 U.S.

recovered was given. [Attachment laws of Pennsylvania,
New York, Illinois, and New Jersey.] The legislation of
these States is typical of that elsewhere. It accomplishes
the primary purpose of attachment laws, that of securing
the appearance of a defendant, and at the same time effectuates the secondary object of securing for the plaintiff
a lien on the property of the defendant which continues
until it is dissolved either because the statutory prerequisites to a valid attachment have not been complied
with or in consequence of the giving of a bond by the
defendant for the purpose of procuring a dissolution of
the attachment. This procedure conforms with due
process of law. It affords a defendant the right to a hearing before his property is condemned. It enables him to
respond to the citation that summons him into court
without the imposition of an onerous or impossible condition. See 1 Shinn on Attachment and Garniskment,
§§ 95, 191, 221, 442, 449.
Even if it were assumed that the Delaware statute was
in exact conformity with the Custom of London, there
has been such a departure from it in the general legislation of the several States that it must be regarded as
opposed to the genius of our institutions. In any event,
there is such a repugnancy between the Delaware statute,
as interpreted, and the Fc,urteenth Amendment, that the
latter must be regarded as having modified the statute
so as to eliminate the unconstitutional features of the law.
Neal v. Delaware, 103 U. S. 370; Ex pare Yarbrough, 110
U. S. 651, 665; Guinn v. United States, 238 U. S. 347,
363; Kentzwky Railroad Tax Cases, 115 U. S. 321-334;
East St. Louis v. Amy, 120 U. S.600; Kaukauna Co. v.
Green Bay Canal Co., 1.42 U. S. 254; Wilkins v. Jewett,
139 Massachusetts, 29; Hamilton v. Kentucky Distilleries
Co., 251 U. S.146, 162.
The cases of Murray's Lessee v. Hobol:cn Land & Improvement Co., 18 How. 272-280; McMillca v. Anderson,

OWNBEY v. MORGAN.
9K.

Argnu

t for Dfendants in Error.

95 U. S. 37; Central Loan & Trust Co. v. Campbell Co.,
173 U. S. 84; Capital Traction Co. v. Hof, 174 U. S. 1;
and Anderuo v. Henry, 45 W. Va. 319, relied upon by
defendants in error, do not sustain their position.
The Delaware statute deprived plaintiff in error of the
equal protection of the laws, since, under the interpretation given to it, he was debarred from appearing and defending without first giving special bail, whilst under the
epress terms of the statute a foreign corporation may

appear and answer without the necessity of giving baiL
CotiiU v. Kansas City Stock Yards Co., 183 U. S. 79;
Conno y v. Union Sewer Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 540, 560;
Gul, Colorado & Sana Fe Ry. Co. v. Elis, 165 U. S. 150;
Farringtonv. Mensching, 187 N. Y. 8. See also Fort
Smith Lumber Co. v. Arkansas, 251 U. S. 532; Royster
Guano Co. v. Virginia, 253 U. S. 412; Bogni v. Perotti,
224 Massachusetts, 152; Phipps v. Wisconsin Central Ry.
Co., 13M& Wisconsin, 153.
Mr. Willard Saulsbury and Mr. Harlan F. Stone for
defendants in error:
If the bail demanded by the plaintiff in the attachment
below had been excessive, it would have been reduced
and fixed at the proper amount by the court to its satifaction on the application of the defendant.
The real purpose of the effort of the defendant below
to enter a general appearance was to transform the
action from a proceeding in ren to an action in peraonam and thus free the attached property from the

attachment.
By settled procedure of the common law a defendant
cannot plead in bailable actions until he has appeared

by giving bail
Appearance can be effected at common law both in
actions of debt and in proceedings begun by foreign
attachment only by putting in special bail.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.

Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

A state statute requiring appearance to be made by
putting in special bail does not iolate the due process
clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. The process of
law known as foreign attachment is not prohibited by
the due process clause. A process of law is due process
within the meaning of constitutional limitations if it can
show the sanction of settled usage both in this country
and in England.
A process of law which conforms to the statutes and
decisions of a State and under which the defendant is
given opportunity for defense in accordance with settled
procedure of the State, will not be held unconstitutional
merely because the defense might be made easier or more
convenient for the defendant by a different procedure.
That part of the procedure of the defendants in error
in the Delaware courts, attacked by the plaintiff in error,
is not the procedure on foreign attachment peculiar to
the Custom of London, but is the practice adopted both
under the Custom of London and by the common law
and by modem statutes requiring appearance by special
bail in actions of debt to recover more than $50.
The plaintiff in error is not within the jurisdiction of
Delaware within the meaning of the term "jurisdiction "
as used in the guaranty of equal protection given by the
Fourteenth Amendment; nor is he deprived of the equal
protection of the laws.
1I

JUSTICE PrrEy delivered the opinion of the court.

ThWs writ of error brings under review a judgment of
the Supreme Court of the State of Delaware affirming
a judgment of the Superior Court in a proceeding brought
by defendants in error by foreign attachment against
the property of plaintiff in error pursuant to the statutes
of that State.
Proceedings were commenced in the Superior Court

OWNBEY v. MORGAN.
94.

Opinion of the Court.

December 23, 1915, by the filing of an affidavit entitled
in the cause, made by one Joyce, a credible person, and
setting forth that defendant Ownbey readed out of the
State and was justly indebted- to plaintiffs in a sum
exceeding fifty dollars Thereupon a writ of foreign attachment was issubd to the sheriff of New Castle County,
which plaintiffs caused to be indorsed with a memorandum
to the effect that special bail was required in the sum of
1200,000, and under which the sheriff attached 33,324'/a
shares of stock (par value $5 each) held and owned by
defendant in the Wootten Land & Fuel Company, a
Delaware corporation, and made a proper return. Plaintiffs filed a declaration demanding recovery of $200,000,
counting upon a combination of the common money
counts in assumpsit. Whether such pleading was required or even permitted by the statutes is questionable;,
but this is not material for present purposes. Not long
afterwards defendant, by attorneys, without giving
security, went through the form of entering a general
appearance, and filed pleas of non assumpsit, the statute
of limitations, and payment. PlaintiffW' attorneys moved
to strike out the appearance and pleas on the ground
that special bail or security as required by the statute
in suits instituted by attachment had not been given. To
this motion defendant filed a written response setting up
that the Wootten Land & Fuel Company, although a
Delaware corporation, was engaged in coal mining and
all its other activities and business in the States of Colorado and New Mexico, where it had large and valuable
property; that defendant was a resident of Colorado, and
the stock in said company attached in this case constituted
substantially all his property; that the company was in
the hands of a receiver, and because of this the market
value of the shares attached was temporarily destroyed,
so that they were unavailable for use in obtaining the
required bail or security to procure the discharge of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.

Opinion of the Court

256 U. S.

shares from attachment, and that it was impossible for
defendant to secure bail or security in the sum of $200,000,
or any adequate sum, for the release of the shares so
attached; that defendant had a good defense, in that there
was no indebtedness upon any account or in any sum due
from him to plaintiffs; that by the true construction of
the Delaware statutes the entry of bail or security for
the discharge of the property attached was not a necessary
prerequisite to the entry of defendant's appearance, and
such appearance might be made without disturbing the
seizure of property under the writ or its security for any
judgment finally entered; and that if the statutes could
not be so construed as to permit appearance and defense
in a case begun.by foreign attachment without the entry
of bail or security for the discharge of the property seized,
they were unconstitutional under the first section of the
Fourteenth Amendment, in that (a) they abridged the
privileges and immunities of citizens of.the United States;
(b) deprived defendants in cases brought under them of
property without due process of law; and (c) denied to
such defendants the equal protection of the laws.
Upon motion of plaintiffs this response and the attempted appearance and pleas of defendant were struck
out upon the ground that special bail or security as required by the statute had not been given by defendant
or any person for him; the Court in Banc holding that in
a foreign attachment suit against an individual there
could be no appearance without entering "special bail,"
that the requirement to that effect was not arbitrary or
unreasonable, and the statute was not unconstitutional.
29 Delaware (6 Boyce), 379, 398-406.
Thereupon judgment in favor of plaintiffs and against
.defendant for want of appearance was ordered, collectible
only from the property attached, the amount to be ascertained by inquisition at bar. The inquisition afterwards proceeded, and resulted in the finding of damages

OWNBEY v. MORGAN.
94.

Opinion of the CourL

to the amount of $200,168.57, for which final judgment
was entered.
Defendant repeatedly asked that the proceedings be
opened and he permitted to appear and disprove or avoid
plaintiffs' debt or claim, saying that shortly after the
issuance of the writ of attachment, and as soon as advised
thereof, he had proceeded to Delaware, retained counsel,
and used every possible effort to secure bail in the sum
of $200,000, offering the attached stock as collateral
security to indemnify a surety, but because the property
of the Wootten Company was in the hands of a receiver
he had found it impossible to obtain any surety; and that
he was not at present nor was he at the time of the issuance
of the writ of foreign attachment indebted to plaintiffs
in any sum whatever, but had a just and legal defense
to the whole of the alleged cause of action. These applications were denied, upon opinions of the Court in Banc (29
Delaware [6 Boyce], 417, 434-436), and the Superior Court
ordered the shares of stock in question sold in order to
satisfy the debt, interest, and costs.
The Supreme Court affirmed the judgment (30 Delaware (7 Boyce), 297, 323, and the case comes here upon
the contention that the statutes of Delaware, as thus
construed and applied, are repugnant to the first section
of the Fourteenth Amendment.
The statutes are found in Delaware Rev. Code, 1915,

and the prnvisions bearing upon the controversy are set
forth in the margin.'
14142. Sec. 25.. A writ of foreign attachment may be issued against
any person not an inhabitant of this State, . . . upon affidavit made
by the plaintiff, or some other credible person, and filed with the Prothonotary, that the defendant resides out of the State, and is justly
indebted to the said plaintiff in a sum exceeding fifty dollars.
4145. See. 28. The said writ shall be framed, directed, executed
and returned, and like proceedings had, as in the case of a domestic
attachment, except as to the appointment of auditors and distribution
among creditors; for every plaintiff in a foreign attachment shall have

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

The principal contention is based upon the "due process of law " clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. It
is said the essential element of due process-the right to
appear and be heard in defense of the action-is lacking.
But the statute in plain terms gives to defendant the
the bnefit of his own discovery, and, after judgment, may proceed,
by order of sale, fieri facia8, capias ad satisfaciendum or otherwise, as
on other judgments.
Provided, that before receiving any sum under such judgment, the
plaintiff shall enter into recognizance as required by section 18 preceding.
4135. Sec. 18. Provided, that before any creditor shall receive any
dividend, or share, so distributed, he shall, with sufficient surety, enter
into recognizance to the debtor, before the Prothonotary, in a sufficient
sum, to secure the repayment of the same or any part thereof, if the
said debtor shall, within one year thereafter, appear in the said Court
and disprove or avoid such debt, or such part thereof.
The proceeding for this purpose may be by motion to the Court,
and an issue framed and tried before the same.
4123. See. 6. If the defendant in the attachment, or any sufficient
person for him, will, at any time before judgment, appear and give
security to the satisfaction of the plaintiff in such cause, or to the
satisfaction of the court and to all actions brought against such defendant, to the value of the property, rights, credits and monies attached,
and the costs, then the garnishees and all property attached shall be
discharged. The security may be taken thus: "On the ...... day of
........ 19.., A. B. becomes security in the sum of ......... that
C. D. shall answer the demand of E. F. in this suit, and shall satisfy
any judgment to the extent of the value of the property attached, that
may be recovered against him therein"; which entry, on the appearance docket, shall be signed by the security, and shall be an obligation
of record of the same force and effect, and subject to the same remedy
by an action of debt, as any other obligation for the payment of money
may be.
4137. Sec. 20. Judgment shall be given for the plaintiff in the
attachment the second term after issuing the writ, unless the defendant
shall enter special bail as aforesaid; whereupon, the court shall make
an order that the sheriff shall sell the property attached, on due notice,
and pay the proceeds (deducting legal costs and charges) to the auditors for distribution.
4143. Sec. 26. A writ of foreign attachment may be isued out of

OWNBEY v. MORGAN.
94.

Opinion of the Court.

opportunity to appear and make his defense, conditioned
only upon his giving security to the value of the property
attached. Hence the question reduces itself to whether
this condition is an arbitrary and unreasonable requirement, so inconsistent with established modes of administering justice that it amounts to a denial of due process.
And this must be determined not alone with reference
the Superior Court of this State against any corporation, aggregate
or sole, not created by or existing under the laws of this State, upon
affidavit made by the plaintiff or any other credible person, and filed
with the Prothonotary of said Court, that the defendant is a corporation not created by, or existing under the laws of this State, and is
justly indebted to the said plaintiff in a sum of money, to be specified
in said affidavit, and which shall exceed fifty dollars.
The said writ shall be framed, directed, executed and returned, and
like proceedings had as in the case of a foreign attachment issued under
the next foregoing section, except that attachments to be issued under
this section shall be dissolved only in the manner hereinafter provided.
In any attachments to be issued under this section, judgment shall
be given for the plaintiff at the second term after the issuing of the
writ, unless the defendant shall have caused an appearance by attorney
to be entered, in which case the like proceedings shall be had, as in
suits commenced against a corporation by summons; Provided, however, if the defendant in the attachment or any sufficient person for
him, shall, at any time before judgment, give security for the payment
of any judgment that may be recovered in said proceedings with costs,
then the garnishees and all the property attached, shall be discharged,
and the attachment dissolved, and like proceedings be had as in other
cases of foreign attachment, in which the attachment has been dissolved by special bail.
4150. Sec. 33. The shares of any person in an incorporated company, with all the rights thereto belonging, shall be subject to attachment as provided by Sections 95 to 99, inclusive, of Chapter Sixty-five.
[The reference is to Rev. Code, §§ 2009-2013, which prescribe the
method of attaching stock, selling it under such attachment, and passing title thereto].
1986. Sec. 72. For all purposes of title, action, attachment, garnishment and jurisdiction of all courts held in this State, but not for the
purpose of taxation, the situs of the ownership of the capital stock of
all corporations existing under the laws of this State, whether organized
under this Chapter or otherwise, shall be regarded as in this State.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

to a case of peculiar hardship arising out of exceptional
circumstances, but with respect to the general effect and
operation of the system of procedure established by the
statutes.
The act concerning foreign attachments has been upon
the statute books of Delaware since early colonial days.
Like the attachment acts of other States, it traces its
origin to the Custom of London, under which a creditor
might attach money or goods of the defendant either in
plaintiff's own hands or in the custody of a third person,
by proceedings in the mayor's court or in the sheriff's
court. The subject is treated at large in Bohun's Prhilegia Londini (3d ed., 1723), pp. 253, et seq. See also Bac
Abr. (Bouv. ed.), tit. Customs of London (H); Com. Dig.
(4th ed.) tit. Attachment, Foreign, (A); Pulling, Laws &
Customs of London (2d ed.) 187 et seq.; Serg. Attach.,
Appendix, pp. 205, et seq. As is said in Drake on Attachment, § 3: "This custom, notwithstanding its local
and limited character, was doubtless known to our ancestors, when they sought a new home on the Western continent, and its essential principle, brought hither by them,
has, in varied forms, become incorporated into the legal
systems of all our States; . . . Our circumstances as
a nation have tended peculiarly to give importance to a
remedy of this character. The division of our extended
domain into many different States, each limitedly sovereign within its territory, inhabited by a people enjoying
unrestrained privilege of transit from place to place in
each State, and from State to State; taken in connection
with the universal and unexampled expansion of credit,
and the prevalent abolishment of imprisonment for debt;
would naturally, and of necessity, lead to the establishment, and, as experience has demonstrated, the enlargement and extension, of remedies acting upon the property
of debtors."
By the Custom a defendant could not appear or raise

OWNBEY v. MORGAN.
94.

Opinion of the Court.

an issue about the debt claimed without entering special
bail, or else surrendering his body. Andrews v. Clerke,
Carth. 25, 26. Hence it naturally came about that
the American colonies and States, in adopting foreign
attachment as a remedy for collecting debts due from
non-resident or absconding debtors, in many instances
made it a part of the procedure that if defendant desired
to enter an appearance and contest plaintiff's demand he
must first give substantial security, usually in the form
of special bail. Besides Delaware, this was true of New
Jersey (Pat. L., p. 296, § 7; p. 298, § 16; Watson v. Noble 1,
65 N. J. L. 506, 508); Pennsylvania (McClenachan v.
MCarty, 1 Dall. 375, 378); Maryland (Campbell v.
Morris,3 Harr. & McH. 535, 552-553); Virginia (Tiernans
v. Schley, 2 Leigh, 25, 29); North Carolina (Britt v. Patterson, 9 Ired. 197, 200; Alexander v. Taylor, 62 N. Car. 36,
38); South Carolina (Acock v. Linn, 1 Harp. 368, 369-370;
Fife & Co. v. Clarke, 3 McCord, 347, 352; Callender.& Co.
v. Duncan,2 Bailey, 454); Tennessee (Boyd v. Buckingham
& Co., 10 Humph. 434, 437); and Ohio (1 Chase's Stat.
462, § 15, cited by counsel in Voorhees v. Bank of United
States, 10 Pet. 449, 453).
As to the legislation in Delaware, where the system is
authoritatively deduced from the Custom of London
(Reybold v. Parker,6 Houst. 544, 555; Reynolds v. Howell,
1- Marvel, 52, 59; Fowler v. Dickson, 24 Del. [1 Boyce]
113, 119), not stopping to trace early colonial laws mentioned in Reybold v. Parker, supra (p. 553), we find that
an act providing for proceedings by attachment against
non-resident as well as against absconding debtors was
passed by the Assembly of the Delaware Counties and
the Province of Pennsylvania March 24, 1770 (Del. Laws
1753-1777, pp. 165, 174); was supplemented by Acts of
the Legislature of the State of Delaware, January 31,
1817 (Del. Laws 1817, p. 232, c. 133), and January 27,
1823 (Del. Laws 1822-1824, p. 261, c. 162); and found

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

its way, without change material to the present purpose,
into Delaware Rev. Code, 1852, as c. 104. By § 3 (Code,
§ 2266) a defendant desiring to enter appearance was required to put in special bail to the value of the property
attached.
In 1856 it was held by the Superior Court that the act
did not extend to foreign corporations; and this because
a corporation could not put in special bail or be surrendered
to bail when it appeared, and, in the absence of provision
for the security to be given, it must be held that the statute
did not contemplate or include the case of such a corporation. Vogle v. New Granada Canal Co., 1 Houst. 294,
299. To remedy this, a supplement was enacted March 2,
1857 (11 Del. Laws, 482, c. 426), providing that the writ
might be issued against a foreign corporation and like
proceedings be had thereon as in other cases, except that
the attachment should be dissolved only by defendant
bringing into court the sum of money specified as the
plaintiff's demand in the affidavit on which the writ was
issued, or giving security for the payment of any judgment
recovered; but that an appearance might be entered for
defendant without bringing in the money or giving the
security mentioned, in which case the writ should continue
to bind the property attached. An amendment passed
March 17, 1875 (15 Del. Laws, 305, 306, cc. 181, 182),
eliminated the express provision for appearance without
dissolving the attachment, and amended the provision
as to the form of security to be given, leaving the section
to stand as it appears in Del. Rev. Code 1915, 4143, § 26,
quoted in the margin, supra. Notwithstanding this
amendment, it seems to be thought that in attachment
against a foreign corporation the entry of security is still
not a prerequisite to appearance, and necessary only if
it be desired to discharge the garnishees and the property
attached (2 Woolley Del. Prac., § 1293); and in favor
of plaintiff in error we shall so assume.

OWNBEY v. MORGAN.
9L

OPinio of the Court.

Meantime, the provision requiring a non-resident individual to enter special bail as a condition of making
appearance remained as before until March 6, 1877, when
the legislature substituted a provision requiring security
to be given to the satisfaction of the plaintiff or of the
court to the value of the property attached and costs,
conditioned that defendant answer the plaintiff's demand and satisfy any judgment recovered, to the extent
of the value of the property attached (15 Del. Laws, 612,
c. 473). In this form it is found in Del. Rev. Code 1915,
4123, § 6, quoted in the margin, suprm.
It will be seen that from the beginning the giving of
security, either in the form of special bail or a substituted
undetaking for the payment of the judgment, has been
made a condition precedent to the entering of appearance and making defense upon the merits by a non-resident individual defendant whose property was taken under
foreign attachment. In the present case the Court in
Banc called attention to the hardship occasionally arising
from this, and suggested that the legislature provide a

remedy (29 Del. [6 Boyce] 435).

There followed an

amendatory act of March 23, 1917 (29 DeL Laws, 844,
c. 258), permitting an appearance and defense without
the giving of special security, but leaving the lien upon
the property attached to remain as security pro tanto;
which was made to apply, subject to conditions, to all suits
instituted (as this one was) after January 1, 1915. Whether
plaintiff in error was at liberty to avail himself of this
statute we are not advised; and for present purposes it
will be disregarded.
The courts of Delaware at all times have laid emphasis
upon the difference between the original character of a
suit by foreign attachment, treating it as an ex parte proceeding quasi in rem, looking to a judgment of condemnation against the property attached and having the
incidental object of compelling defendant's appearance-

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

on the one hand-and the action in personam, with its
appropriate incidents, that resulted from an appearance
by defendant accompanied by the giving of securityon the other. Wells v. Shree's Administrator (1861), 2
Houst. 329, 369-370; Frankelv. Satterfield (1890), 9 Houst.
201, 209; National Bank of Wilmington & Brandywine v.
Furtick (1895), 2 Marvel, 35, 51. Recognizing the fundamental character of this distinction, and regarding the
foreign attachment in Delaware as wholly statutory, the
courts have not felt at liberty, in the absence of legislation,
to give to the proceeding a hybrid character by permitting
an appearance without security other than the property
attached, leaving this to answer pro tanto the plaintiff's
demand.
The requirement of special bail as a condition of appearance was long familiar in bailable actions at common
law and in admiralty proceedings. In requiring such bail
from a non-resident defendant whose goods had been
seized and who desired to be heard to contest the plaintiff's demand, Delaware did but follow familiar precedents
and analogies, besides conforming to the Custom. It is
not contended that the substitution, by the 1877 amendment, of a bond conditioned for payment of the judgment
to the extent of the value of the property attached, in lieu
of the special bail formerly required on entering appearance, made a substantial difference rendering the new
requirement any more obnoxious to the due process clause
than the earlier. It is the imposing of any condition
whatever upon the right to be heard that is complained of.
Hence the question is whether the State, in thus adopting a time-honored method of procedure and preserving
as a part of it a time-honored requirement of security,
and in adhering logically to the ancient distinction between a proceeding quasi in rem and an action in personam,
to the extent of refraining, until the amendment of 1917,
from enacting legislation recognizing the peculiar appeal

OWNBEY v. MORGAN.
9L

Opinim of the CourL

of a defendant who may have no resources or credit aside
from the property attached, must be regarded as having
deprived such a defendant of his property without due
procese of law, in contravention of the Fourteenth Amendment. In our opinion, the question must be answered

in the- negative
In MHwi 'sLessee v. Hoboken Land & Improvement
Co., 18 How. 272, 276, 280, which arose under the due

proem clause of the Fifth Andment,the court, by
Mr. Justice Cirtis, declared (pp. 276-277): "The Constitution contains no description of those processes which
it was intended to allow or forbid. It does not even declare
what principles are to be applied to ascertain whether it
be due process. . .. To what principles, then, are we
to resort to ascertain whether this proces, enacted by
Congrees, is due process? To this the answer must be
twofold. We must examine the Constitution itself, to see
whether this proem be in conflict with any of its provisios. If not found to be so, we must look to those
settled usages and modes of proceeding existing in the

common and statute law of England, before the emigratio of our ancestors, and which are shown not to have
been Muited to their civil and political condition by

having been
acted on by them after the settlement of this
P
country. ?

In Pennoyer v. Neff,95 U. S. 714, 722-724, it was shown
that the process of foreign attachment has its fundamental
basis in the exclusive jurisdiction and sovereignty of
each State over persons and property within its borders;
and although emphas was there laid upon the authority
and duty of a State to protect its own citizens in their
claims against non-resident owners of property situate
within the State, it is clear that, by virtue of the "priviiegs and immunitie " clause of 12 of Art. IV of the

Ceach

State is at ilberty, if not under a duty,

to accord the same privilege of protection to creditors

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

who are citizens of other States that it accords to its own
citizens. Blake v. McClung, 172 U. S. 239, 248, et seq.
The record before us shows no judgment entered against
plaintiff in error in personam, but only one for carrying
into effect a lien imposed upon his interest in property
within the jurisdiction of the State for the purpose of
satisfying a demand made against him as a non-resident
debtor, and established to the satisfaction of the court.
And an analysis of his contentions shows that the real
complaint was and is, not that there was any departure,
arbitrary or otherwise, from the due and orderly course
of procedure provided by the statutes of Delaware long
before the case arose; but rather that the courts of the
State declined to recognize the peculiar hardship of his
case as sufficient ground for relaxing in his behalf the
established legal procedure. His appeal in effect was to
the summary and equitable jurisdiction of a court of
law so to control its own process and proceedings as not

to produce hardship. This is a recognized extraordinary
jurisdiction of common-law courts, distinguishable from
their ordinary or formal jurisdiction. It has been much
developed since the separation of the American Colonies
from England. But, where the proceedings have been
regular, it is exercised as a matter of grace or discretion,
not as of right, and is characterized by the imposition of
terms on the party to whom concession is made. Smith's
Action at Law, 4th ed. (1851), pp. 22-27; Stewart's Blackstone (1854), vol. 3, pp. 334-338. A liberal exercise of
this summary and equitable jurisdiction, in the interest
of substantial justice and in relaxation of the rigors of
strict legal practice, is to be commended; but it cannot
be said to be essential to due process of law, in the constitutional sense.
The due process clause does not impose upon the States
a duty to establish ideal systems for the administration
of justice, with every modem improvement and with

OWNBEY v. MORGAN.
9L

opinion of the Court.

provision against every possible hardship that may befal. It restrains state action, whether legislative, executive, or judicial, within bounds that are consistent with
the fundamentals of individual liberty and private property, including the right to be heard where liberty or
property is at stake in judicial proceedings. But a property owner who absents himself from the territorial jurisdiction of a State, leaving his property within it, must be
deemed ez necesilate to consent that the State may subject such property to judicial process to answer demands
made against him in his absence, according to any practicable method that reasonably may be adopted. A procedure customarily employed, long before the Revolution,
in the commercial metropolis of England, and generally
adopted by the States as suited to their circumstances
and needs, cannot be deemed inconsistent with due prooem of law, even if it be taken with its ancient incident
of requiring security from a defendant who after seizure
of his property comes within the jurisdiction and seeks
to interpose a defense. The condition imposed has a
reasonable relation to the conversion of a proceeding
qumasi ir rem into an action in personam; ordinarily it is
not difficult to comply with-a man who has property
usually has friends and credit-and hence in its normal
operation it must be regarded as a permissible condition;
and it cannot be deemed so arbitrary as to render the
procedure inconsistent with due process of law when
applied to a defendant who, through exceptional misfortune, is unable to furnish the necessary security; certainly
not where such defendant-as is the case now presented,
so far as the record shows--has acquired the property-right and absented himself from the State after the
practice was established, and hence with notice that his
property situate there would be subject to disposition
under foreign attachment by the very method that afterwards was pursued, and that he would have no right to

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

256 U. &

enter appearance and make defense except upon giving
security.
However desirable it is that the old forms of procedure
be improved with the progress of time, it cannot rightly
be said that the Fourteenth Amendment furnishes a
universal and self-executing remedy. Its function is
negative, not affirmative, and it carries no mandate for

particular meares of reform. For instance, it does not
constrain the States to accept particular modem doctrines
of equity, or adopt a combined system of law and equity
procedure, or dispense with all necessity for form and
method in pleading, or give untrammelled liberty to make
amendments. Neither does it, as we think, require a State
to relieve the hardship of an ancient and familiar method
of procedure by dispensing with the exaction of special
security from an appearing defendant in foreign attachment.

We conclude that the statutes under consideration
were not in conflict with the due process provision of the
Fourteenth Amendment.
Under the equal protection clause it is contended that
there is unwarranted discrimination in debarring an
individual from appearing and making defense without
first giving special security, while a foreign corporation
may appear and answer without giving any security, except for the lien of the process upon the property attached.
But, as we have seen, the difference in treatment was
resorted to because from their nature corporations could
not put in special bail or be surrendered thereunder. This
was a reasonable ground for separating defendants into
two classes-individuals and corporations; and it was
natural that in subsequent legislation the classes should
be separately treated, as was done. There is here no
denial of the equal protection of the laws, within. the
meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment..
The objection that the acts abridge the privileges and

ECONOMY LIGHT CO. v. UNITED STATES.

113

8yllabua.

94.

immunities of citizens of the United States, within the
meaning of the same Amendment, is not pressed, and
plainly is untenable. As has been pointed out repeatedly,
the privileges and immunities referred to in the Amendment are only such as owe their existence to the Federal
Government, its national character, its Constitution,
or its laws. Maxwi v. Bugbee, 250 U. S. 525, 537-538,
and cases cited. The privileges and immunities of plaintiff in error alleged to be abridged by the statutes in questfQ have no such federal origin.

The judgment under review is
Affirmed.
Mn. Jusncar
M

McRzyNoLS concurs in the 'result.

Cmu i Juercz and MR. JusrcE CLARKm dissent.

ECONOMY LIGHT & POWER COMPANY v.
UNITED STATES.
APP1AL FROM THE CIRCUIr COURT OF APPF.A&L

FOR THE

SEVENTH CIRCUIT.
No. 104. Argued December 17, 1920.-Decided April 11, 1921.
1. Artificial obstructions subject to abatement by public authority
do not render non-navigable in law a stream which in its natural
state would be navigable in fact. P. I1.
2. Tbe authority o- Congress to prohibit added obstructions to a
navigable stream is not lost by omission to take action in previous
cases. P. 118.
The Desplames River in Illinois which was used from a very early
day to about the year 1825 as a link in a well-known route between
Lake Michigan and the Mississippi, in the transportation of furs
and supplies by canoes and other light-draft boats, but has not since

