MICH. CENT. R. R. v. MARK OWEN & CO. 427
421.

Syllabus.

State, and became subject to intrastate regulation. It is
doubtful if that be a justifiable deduction from the findings
of the trial court. But comment is not necessary. It is
the finding of the court that the automobiles were in the
hands of the agents of the consigning corporations, and
therefore, a tax against them was practically a tax on
their importation into the State. It is not necessary to
say it would be useless to send them to the State if their
sale could be prevented by a prohibitive tax or one so
discriminating that it would prevent competition with
the products of the State. This is the ruling of the cases
which we have cited. It is especially the ruling in Darnell
& Son Co. v. Memphis, supra. The imposition of such a
tax is practically the usurpation of the power of Congress
over interstate commerce, and therefore illegal.
Judgment reversed and cause remanded for further
proceedings not inconsistent uith this opinion.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY

and MR. JusTicE BRANDEIS dis-

sent.

MICHIGAN CENTRAL RAILROAD COMPANY v.
MARK OWEN & COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
ILLINOIS.

No. 299.

Argued April 28, 1921.-Decided June 1, 1921.

1. Under a "uniform" interstate bill of lading providing that property
not removed, by the party entitled to receive it, within 48 hours
after the notice of its arrival, may be kept in car, depot or place of
delivery of the carrier, subject to a reasonable charge for storage and
to the carrier's responsibility as warehouseman only, or may, at the
carrier's option, be stored in a public or licensed warehouse at the

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

owner's cost and risk, subject to a lien for the carrier's freight and
other charges, the carrier remains liable qua carrier during the
48-hour period, pending delivery. P. 430.
2. A carload of goods, upon arrival at destination, was placed upon the
railroad's public delivery track, and the consignee, having been
notified, accepted the car, broke the seals thereon and proceeded to
unload. Held, that this did not constitute a delivery of the goods
and that a loss of part, occurring during the unloading and within
the 48-hour period provided hi the bill of lading ut supra, par. 1, must

be borne by the railroad. P. 431.
291 Illinois, 149, affirmed.

CE.RTIORARI to review a judgment of the Supreme
Court of Illinois affirming a judgment for damages,
rendered in favor of the present respondent by the Appellate Court of that State upon an appeal from a contrary judgment of the Municipal Court of Chicago. The
facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Frank H. Towner, with whom Mr. Ralph M. Shaw
was on the briefs, for petitioner.
Mr. William B. Moulton, with whom Mr. Joseph A.
Bates was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA

delivered the opinion of the

court.
Action in the Municipal Court of Chicago for damages
for loss on several shipments of grapes, four car-lots,
shipped in sound and merchantable condition.
On receipt of the shipments bills of lading were issued.
The total loss is alleged to have been 126 baskets of grapes
of the value of $23.30. The Municipal Court,found against
plaintiff (respondent here, and it will be so referred to).
The judgment was reversed by the Appellate Court,
First District of the State, and judgment awarded respondent which was affirmed by the Supreme Court of

MICH. CENT. R. R. v. MARK OWEN & CO. 429
427.

Opinion of the Court.

the State, to which an appeal was granted because the
Court of Appeals considered that the case involved questions of importance "on account of principal and collateral interests" which should be passed upon by the
Supreme Court.
Our review is concerned with questions of law; the facts
are undisputed. It is stipulated that the cars were transported by the Railroad Company from their respective
points of origin to Chicago, arriving there at different
days and times of day. Upon the arrival of each car it
was placed on a public delivery track of the Railroad Company and notice thereof given. Respondent accepted
each car, breaking the seals thereof. And it is stipulated
that, at the time respondent started to unload, each of the
cars contained the number of baskets and pounds of
grapes received for transportation. The loss, whatever
there was, occurred after the acceptance of the cars and
after their unloading had commenced, and whether the
Railroad Company is liable therefor, and in what capacity
liable-whether as carrier or warehouseman, or at all-is
the question in the case.
The answer depends upon the construction to be given
to the first paragraph of section 5 of the bill of lading.
It is as follows:
"Property not removed by the party entitled to receive
it within forty-eight hours (exclusive of legal holidays)
after notice of its arrival has been duly sent or given
may be kept in car, depot, or place of delivery of the carrier, or warehouse, subject to a reasonable charge for
storage and to carrier's responsibility as warehouseman
only, or may be, at the option of the carrier, removed to
and stored in a public or licensed warehouse at the cost of
the owner and there held at the owner's risk and without
liability on the part of the carrier, and subject to a lien
for all freight and other lawful charges, including a reasonable charge for storage."

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

Regarding the words of the section merely, they are
clear enough, and present no "double sense." But controversies have arisen and judicial judgments have divided upon them. The point of the controversies has
been, and is, as to the relation of the carrier to a shipment
within 48 hours after notice of its arrival has been duly
sent or given, and the contentions upon the point are in
sharp antagonism. That of respondent is that the Railroad Company during the 48 hours is responsible as a carrier, this relation not terminating until the expiration of
that time. The contention of the Railroad Company is
contra, and that it is liable neither as carrier nor as warehouseman,-not as carrier because the shipment had been
delivered and accepted-not as warehouseman because
no negligence has been proved against it. The Supreme
Court decided against the contentions of the Railroad
Company and held it liable for loss on all of the shipments. As to three of them we may say immediately,
in disposition of them, respondent withdraws any claim
on account of them and confines the issue to one car
which was undoubtedly unloaded within 48 hours of
the notice of its arrival. There is question of the other
cars.
The importance of the issue, however, still remains,
although it is concerned with only 31 baskets of grapes
of the value of $8.68, and the difficulty of its determination
is indicated by the fact of the diversity of judicial reasoning upon a like issue in other cases. And counsel have been
at pains to set the cases in opposition with approving or
disapproving comment of their own.
The differences of the cases cannot be reconciled and a
review of them for the purpose of selection would manifestly extend this opinion to a great length. Their outside principle is simple enough; the bill of lading is a
contract betweeh the transportation company and him
who is interested in the shipment, and legal when

MICH. CENT. R. R. v. MARK OWEN & CO.
427.

431

Opinion of the Court.

within the policy and edicts of the law regulating that
relation.'
By recurring to section 5 of the bill of lading, it will be
seen that it supposes a contingency and provides for its
occurrence. It supposes that property may not be removed when it has reached destination, and is available
for delivery, and two periods of time are provided for.
One of 48 hours after notice of the arrival of the property
has been sent or given. During this time there is no declaration of the relation of the Railroad Company to the
property. The other period commences at the expiration
of the first or 48hour period, during which the provision
is that the property is subject "to. carrier's responsibility
as warehouv-man only." The comparison has its significance and must be accounted for. Realizing this, the
Railroad Company makes a distinction. Its contention
is that, where delivery has been made of the property,
as it insists was true in the case at bar, the responsibility
of the Railroad Company as carrier immediately ceases.
If, however, it is neither delivered nor removed within
48 hours after notice of its arrival, the responsibility of
the Railroad Company thereafter is that of "warehouseman only."
To the distinction and the contention based upon it
the Supreme Court of the State answered that the bill of
lading provides for property "not removed "-not to
property "delivered" or "not delivered," and it must be
taken at its word.
The answer puts too much emphasis upon the distinction between property removed and property delivered.
Texa & Pacific Ry. Co. v. Reiss, 183 U. S. 621; Kansas City Southern Ry. Co. v. Carl, 227 U. S. 639; Georgia,Florida& Alabama Ry. Co. v.
Blish Milling Co., 241 U. S. 190; St. Louis, Iron Mountain & Southern
Ry. Co. v. Starbird,243 U. S. 592; Missouri,Kansas & Texas Ry. Co. v.
Ward, 244 U. S. 383; Southern Ry. Co. v. Pescott, 240 U. S. 632; Erie
R. R. Co. v. Shuart, 250 U. S. 465.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
McREYNOLDs,

J., dissenting.

256 U. S.

The property here was not delivered; access was only given
to it that it might be removed, and 48 hours were given
for the purpose. Pending that time it was within the
custody of the Railroad Company, the Company having
the same relation to it that the Company acquired by its
receipt and had during its transportation.
The bill of lading is definite, as we have pointed out,
in its provisions and of the time at which responsibility
of the Company shall be that of warehouseman, and by
necessary implication, therefore, until that responsibility
attaches, that of carrier exists.
All the elements of the case considered and assigned
their persuasive force, we think the judgment of the Supreme Court should be and it is
Affirmed.
MR.JusTicE, MCREYNOLDS,

dissenting:

This cause is important because of what had been said
concerning section 5 of the Uniform Bill of Lading, approved and recommended by the Interstate Commerce
Commission after much consideration and repeated conferences between carriers and shippers, extending through
four years.
In their report, 14 I. C. C. (1908), 346, 348, 349, 350,
the Commission said:
"This proposed bill of lading-for the two forms may
be considered as one in what we have further to say-is
submitted for adoption by the carriers and use by the
shipping public with considerable confidence. It is not
claimed to be perfect, and experience may develop the
need of further modifications, but it represents the most
intelligent and exhaustive efforts of those who undertook
its preparation to agree upon a bill of lading which should
be reasonably satisfactory to the railroads and the public.
It is, of course, more or less a compromise between oppos-

MICH. CENT. R. R. v. MARK OWEN & CO. 433
427.

McRYNOLDS, J., dissenting.

ing interests, because on the one hand it imposes obligations of an important character which carriers have not
heretofore assumed, and on the other retains exemptions
to which some shippers may object, and perhaps not without substantial reason. As we are advised, it is in some
respects less favorable to the shipper than the local laws
or regulations of one or more states, but is more favorable
to the shipper than the local laws or regulations of most
of the states. On the whole, it is believed to be the best
adjustment which is now practicable of a controversy of
long standing which affects the business interests of the
entire country. . . . The circumstances under which
the work of the joint committee has been conducted and
the substantial agreement on most points by the different
interests concerned, to say nothing of direct assurances
from representatives of the carriers, warrant us in expecting that the assenting roads will adopt the bill upon
our recommendation. We therefore assume that the
railroads in Official Classification territory, whose proposed action was the subject of the original investigation, will adopt and use this bill, to the extent above
indicated, from and after the date named for that purpose. We shall also expect that railroad carriers subject
to the act outside of Official Classification territory will
adopt and use this bill of lading to the same extent and
from and after the same date. There may be peculiar
conditions in western and southern territory which require some modifications of or additions to this standard
bill, but the desirability of uniform usage is so great and
the reasons for it so obvious as to justify the expectation
that carriers in western and southern territory will adopt
the bill in question to the fullest extent practicable without abridging any just privileges which their shippers
now enjoy."
The language in controversy was not selected by the
carriers alone; they reluctantly accepted the whole in-

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
McRzyNoLDs, J., dissenting.

256 U S.

strument rather than dictated it to others. Texas &
Pacific Ry. Co. v. Reiss, 183 U. S. 621, holding that doubtful provisions should be resolved in the shipper's favor,
is not applicable. The agreement ought to be construed
and applied as one arrived at through deliberate negotiation by intelligent parties seeking to make some definite
statement or modification of common-law rules concerning
their rights and liabilities.
The carrier acknowledges receipt of "the property
described . . . marked, consigned and destined as
indicated below, which said carrier (which word is to be
understood throughout this bill of lading as meaning any
person or corporation in possession of the property under
the bill of lading) agrees to carry to its usual place of
delivery at said destination, if on its road, otherwise to
deliver to another carrier on the route to said destination."
Among other things, section 1 provides:
"The carrier or party in possession of any of the property herein described shall be liable for any loss thereof
or damage thereto, except as hereinafter provided.
When in accordance with general custom, on account of
the nature of the property, or when at the request of the
shipper the property is transported in open cars, the carrier or party in possession (except in case of loss or damage by fire, in which case the liability shall be the same as
though the property had been carried in closed cars)
shall be liable only for negligence, and the burden to
prove freedom from such negligence shall be on the carrier or party in possession."
Section 5 follows:
"Property not removed by the party entitled to receive
it within forty-eight hours (exclusive of legal holidays)
after notice of its arrival has been duly sent or given may
be kept in car, depot, or place of delivery of the carrier,
or warehouse, subject to a reasonable charge for storage
and to carrier's responsibility as warehouseman only, or

MICH. CENT. R. R. v. MARK OWEN & CO. 435
427.

MCREYNOLDS,

J., dissenting.

may be, at the option of the carrier, removed to and stored
in a public or licensed warehouse at the cost of the owner
and there held at the owner's risk and without liability
on the part of the carrier, and subject to a lien for all
freight and other lawful charges, including a reasonable
charge for storage."
The Uniform Bill does not purport to specify all rights
and obligations of the parties as between themselves, but
leaves these as established by law, except when and as
otherwise provided. Particularly, it does not undertake
to define what shall constitute delivery to the consignee.
"In order to simplify the issues the respondent" conftes its claim here to losses from car No. 22049--$8.68.
The parties stipulated that this car "arrived in Chicago
on October 8, 1914, was placed.on a public delivery team
track on October 9, 1914, at 8:00 A. M. o'clock; that notice
of arrival and placement of said car was given to the plaintiff herein on October 9, 1914, at 9 A. M. o'clock; that
plaintiff accepted said car, broke the seals thereon, and
started to unload it on October 9, 1914, at 9:30 A. M.
o'clock; and that the unloading of said car was completed by the plaintiff on October 9, 1914, at 6 P. M.
o'clock. . . . That at the time the plaintiff accepted
and started to unload each of said cars, every car contained the same number of baskets and pounds of grapes
as were received by the defendant in said car for transportation. at the point of origin thereof, named herein,
and that at said time the doors of each of said cars were
sealed with the-same seals intact as were placed on them
by the defendant when it received said grapes for transportation."
The circumstances accompanying acceptance and unloading are not revealed except as above stated. Whether
these suffice clearly to establish final and complete delivery of possession of the freight to the consignee may
be questioned, but mere consideration of the bill cannot

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
McREYNOLDS, J., dissenting.

256 U. S.

solve the difficulty. If, as matter of fact, the consignee
was put into actual possession of the property within
forty-eight hours, it must be clear that the carrier's
liability as insurer ceased when he accepted control.

What constitutes delivery by a railroad carrier sufficient to change its responsibility from insurer to warehouseman has given occasion for much difference of
opinion.
The so-called New York rule, the strictest
against the
carrier, "is stated to be that if the consignee is present,
upon the arrival of the goods, he must take them without
unreasonable delay; if he is not present, but lives at or in
the immediate vicinity of the place of delivery, the carrier must notify him of the arrival of the goods, and then
he must have a reasonable time to remove them; if he is
absent, unknown or cannot be found, the carrier may store
them; and if, after notice of the arrival of the goods, the
consignee has had a reasonable opportunity to remove
them, and does not, he cannot hold the carrier longer as
an insurer." Hutchinson on Carriers, 3rd ed., ยง 708.
The Massachusetts rule has been thus stated: "All that
could be required of railways was a safe deposit of the
goods upon the platform or in the warehouse of the road
at the end of the transit, to await delivery to the consignee,
when he should call for them, and that from the time of
such deposit, even without notice by the carrier to the
consignee, the liability of the former was changed from
that of common carrier to warehouseman." Hutchinson
on Carriers, 3rd ed., ยง 702.
The New Hampshire rule continues the carrier's liability
as insurer until the consignee has had a reasonable time
to receive the goods after their arrival at destination.
During that period "The servants of the carrier still
continue in charge of them. They are equally shut off
from observation and the oversight of others as when in
transit; and if they are lost, damaged, or purloined, he

MICH. CENT. R. R. v. MARK OWEN & CO. 437
427.

McREYNOLDS,

J., dissenting.

has no greater opportunity of ascertaining or proving
by whose fault or negligence it was done, than if such loss
had occurred during the transportation. Consequently,
the same reasons for holding the carrier to extraordinary
responsibility during the transportation of the goods
exist after their arrival, at least, until the owner or consignee shall have had an opportunity to take them in
charge." Hutchinson on Carriers, 3rd ed., ยง 704.
Undoubtedly, the Uniform Bill was prepared with the
above rules in mind. It did not adopt any of them, but
left the matter to which they relate for determination
by the courts.
It should be noted that the bill acknowledged receipt
of property "which said carrier . . . agrees to carry
to its usual place of delivery at said destination, if on its
road, otherwise to deliver to another carrier on the route
to said destination." And further, that "the carrier or
party in possession of any of the property herein described
shall be liable for any loss thereof or damage thereto,
except as hereinafter provided."
The special purpose of section 5 was to protect the carrier by placing an extreme limit upon the time during
which freight might remain with it without charge for
storage; and also to define the carrier's right and obligation thereafter. The unnecessary delay incident to unloading and the undue utilization of railroad cars and
warehouses by consignees for storage purposes had seriously hindered prompt movement of freight, and proper
employment of equipment. This section does not purport to establish any rule of liability during the fortyeight hours, but leaves that to be determined by application of the common law to the circumstances. To
say that a carrier insures for forty-eight hours although
the consignee has taken actual custody of the goods
would seem an absurd conclusion. And the practical
impossibility of stationing an agent at every car within

438

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
McREYNOLDS, J., dissenting.

256 U. S.

a great terminal while freight is being removed by thousands of consignees and their agents-a necessary precaution if thefts or mistakes by any one of them must be
prevented-makes it manifest that the Interstate Commerce Commission would not have sanctioned the responsibility now claimed and that the carriers would not
have acquiesced. I cannot think there was purpose to
burden carriers beyond the most stringent of the rules
above referred to.
The fair inference from the facts stipulated is that the
consignee received possession and control of his goods
before the loss occurred. A carrier's responsibility as
insurer depends upon exclusive possession and, control
and must cease when these end. The modified one prescribed by the Uniform Bill for goods shipped in open
cars where such possession and control is difficult or impossible to maintain gives practical recognition to the
real basis upon which liability rests. Here the car was
opened, examined, accepted and apparently thereafter
remained in charge of the consignee. Yet, it is said the
delivery was not sufficient to terminate liability as insurer but that this continued because of section 5, which
in plain terms refers only to removal. It must not be forgotten that we are not dealing here with a question of
due care but with the absolute liability of an insurer.
It is not good reasoning to conclude that because an
extreme limit is placed upon the time during which freight
may remain in a car without charge, therefore the carrier's liability as an insurer continues during such time.
The Uniform Bill is in common use and the opinion of
the court will be far-reaching. The subject therefore
seems sufficiently important to demand an indication of
the reasons which lead me to dissent.

