BETHLEHEM MOTORS CO. v. FLYNT.
Counsel for Parties.

BETHLEHEM MOTORS CORPORATION ET AL.
v. FLYNT, SHERIFF OF FORSYTH COUNTY,
NORTH CAROLINA, ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NORTH
CAROLINA.
No. 254.

Submitted March 22, 1921.-Decided June 1, 1921.

A North Carolina statute (Laws 1917, c. 231) provided that every
manufacturer of automobiles engaged in the business of selling them
in the State must pay a license tax of $500 before selling or offering
for sale, and made like requirement of every person or corporation
there engaged in selling automobiles of a manufacturer who had not
paid such tax, but further provided that, if an officer or representative of such manufacturer should file a sworn statement showing that
at least three-fourths of the entire assets of the manufacturer were
invested in bonds of the State or its municipalities or in property
therein situate and returned for taxation, the license tax should be
reduced to $100. As applied to two corporations of other States
which made automobiles outside of North Carolina and a third
which distributed -them there through local agencies to which the
automobiles were consigned for sale,Held: (1) That, assuming the coiprations were doing business in
North Carolina and were subject to her jurisdiction, the statute
worked a discrimination against them, contrary to the Fourteenth
Amendment. P. 424.
(2) That, without such assumption, it discriminated against their
products, in violation of the commerce clause. P. 426.
178 N. Car. 399, reversed.
ERROR

to a judgment of the Supreme Court of North

Carolina sustaining a state license tax in a suit to restrain
its enforcement. The facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. J. E. Alexander for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. James S. Manning, Attorney General of the State

of North Carolina, for defendants in error.
Nash was also on the brief.

Mr. Frank

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of te Court.

256 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE McKENNA delivered the opinion of the

court.

The defendants in error are, respectively, Sheriffs of
Foi-syth and Guilford Counties, North Carolina. Under
the laws of the State, for the non-payment of a license tax,
the former levied on a motor truck belonging to the
Bethlehem Corporation (referred to as the Pennsylvania
Corporation); the latter levied on a car belonging to the
National Motor Car and Vehicle Corporation (referred to
as the Indiana Corporation). The trucks are manufactured in Pennsylvania, the cars in Indiana; and they are
distributed in North Carolina and other States through
W. Irving Young & Company, (referred to as the Delaware Corporation) a corporation of the State of Delaware,
which conducts its business in North Carolina by the
Liberty Motors Corporation and the National Motors
Company, these companies being corporations of North'
Carolina. And it is the finding or conclusion of the trial
court that "both corporations thereupon were and became the agents" of the three other corporations "for the
purpose of selling and delivering said trucks and automobiles." They were consigned to the two latter companies and were sold direct by them from their storage
warehouse, being consigned to them for that purpose and
not to be used exclusively as samples or for demonstration
purposes, nor used or intended to be used simply for the
purpose of soliciting orders to be filled by shipment from
the place of their manufacture.
Plaintiffs in error brought this suit in the Superior Court
of Forsyth County to restrain the defendants in error from
selling the truck and car. A preliminary restraining order
was granted. It was subequently dissolved. The order of
dissolution was affirmed by the Supreme Court, thereby
sustaining the license tax and the levy upon the automobiles made to enforce it.

BETHLEHEM MOTORS CO. v. FLYNT.
421.

Opinion of the Court.

A summary of the act by which a license is required is
necessary. It provides in ยง 72 of c. 231, Laws of 1917,
that every manufacturer of automobiles "engaged in the
business of selling the same in this State, or every person
or persons or corporation engaged in selling automobiles in
this State, the manufacturer of which has not paid the
license tax provided for in this section, before selling or
offering for sale any such machine, shall pay to the State
Treasurer a tax of five hundred dollars and obtain a
license for conducting such business." The name of the
machine must accompany the application for a license,
which must be in writing. A licensee may employ an
unlimited number of agents, but each county of the State
may levy a tax on each agent. Besides some other
provisions, there is one (and it is of special pertinenze in
the case) "that if any officer, agent, or representative of
such manufacturer shall file with the State Treasurer a
sworn statement showing that at least three-fourths of the
entire assets of the said manufacturer of automobiles are
invested" in the bonds of the State or any of its counties,
cities or towns, or in property situated therein, and returned for taxation, the taxes named in the section shall be
one-fifth of those named. Upon the renewal of a license
that shall have been in force less than six months, a rebate
of $250 is allowed on the new license.
Two contentions are made by the plaintiffs in error:
(1) That the act imposing the tax offends the equal
protection of the laws clause of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United States.
(2) That the act attempts to regulate interstate commerce in contravention of the commerce clause of the
Constitution.
The contentions depend upon different considerations.
The basis of the first is that the corporations are discriminated against; the basis of the second is that their
products are. The contentions, therefore, should not be

424

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

256 U: S.

confused. They fall under two heads: (1) If the Pennsylvania Corporation and the Indiana Corporation and the
Delaware Corporation are doing business in the State, and,
therefore, within its jurisdiction, they undoubtedly can
complain of a discrimination against them that is offensive to the Fourteenth Amendment. Southern Ry. Co. v.
Greene, 216 U. S. 400, 415. (2) If, however, they are not
in the State and subject to its jurisdiction and seek to
enter, the tax may be considered a condition which the
statute may impose, (Paulv. Virginia, 8 Wall. 168, and a
number of subsequent cases, including Southern Ry. Co. v.
Greene, supra), unless, as plaintiffs in error contend, the
tax is a discrimination against their products.
These contentions we wiNl consider in their order, keeping them as separate as possible.
(a) This court has decided too often to need citation of
the cases that corporations doing business in a State and
having an agent there are within the jurisdiction of the
State for the purpose of suit against them, and we may
assume that the principle is applicable here and that the
Pennsylvania Corporation, the Indiana Corporation and
the Delaware Corporation are within the jurisdiction of the
State and subject to its laws, equally with the corporations
of the State. It will be observed, however, that the act
under review applies to all manufacturers and persons engaged in selling automobiles in the State. The act makes
no distinctions between non-resident and resident manufacturers. Wherein, then, is there discrimination? It is
contended to be in the provision which reduces the tax
to one-fifth of its amount-from $500 to $100-if the
manufacturer of the automobiles has three-fourths of his
assets invested in the bonds of the State or some of its
municipalities, or in other property situated therein
and returned for taxation. The provision is declared to
be impossible of performance and its effect to be that a
manufacturer not having such investment of property is

BETHLEHEM MOTORS CO. v. FLYNT.
421.

Opinion of the Court.

charged $500 for a license and one having such investment of property is charged only $100. And plaintiffs in
error, it is asserted, are necessarily in the $500 class. The
contrasting assertion is that local manufacturers are in
the $100 class, and that, therefore, there is illegal discrimination in their favor.
In explicit specification of such discrimination plaintiffs
in error assert that the provision as applied to them is
"contrary to all common sense," and that the Supreme
Court conceded the improbability of compliance with
it by the manufacturer of another State.
The Attorney General of the State seems to concur in
the denunciation and adds to it the declaration that the
insistence of the act is of an "utterly futile project" but
adds, in order to remove or palliate its discrimination, it
is as "futile" to manufacturers of the State as to manufacturers of other States, and considers it nugatory. His
words are, "from nothing, nothing can arise," and that
"discrimination cannot be predicated upon any scheme
which is not workable." He therefore dismisses the provision as not applicable.
May we accept his view of it, that is, regard the condition as a mere brutum fulmen, imposing no condition or
burden, against the decision of the Supreme Court of the
State? The court has assumed its efficacy and regarded
it as a legal condition upon the Pennsylvania Corporation,
the Indiana Corporation, and the Delaware Corporation,
doing business in the State. We are unable to concur in
this conclusion. It is a perilous power to concede to the
State, and it is immediately manifest that it can be
exerted to prevent all commerce of those corporations (or
other corporations) with the State except as the commerce might be through direct personal purchases and importations. In other words, the power can be exerted to
exclude the products of those corporations, and every other
corporation, if they have, or it has, agents in the State.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

But if that provision can be dismissed as nugatory, as
th6 Attorney General asserts, we encounter the alternative
provision which requires the investment of a like proportion of assets of foreign manufacturers in property in the
State returned for taxation. In resistance to the assertion
that the provision discriminates against non-resident
manufacturers, the Attorney General contends that it is as
applicable to resident manufacturers as to non-resident
manufacturers, and, of course, his inference is that its
condition can be performed as easily by one as by the
other, and discriminates against neither.
To this we cannot assent. The condition can be satisfied by a resident manufacturer, his factory and its
products in the first instance being within the State; it
cannot be satisfied by a non-resident manufacturer, his
factory necessarily being in another State, some of its
products only at a given time being within the State.
Therefore, there is a real discrimination, and an offense
against the Fourteenth Amendment, if we assume that
the corporations are within the State.
(b) If they are not within the State, their second contention is that the act is an attempt to regulate interstate
commerce. If it have that effect it is illegal, for a tax on
an agent of a foreign corporation for the sale of a product
is a tax on the product, and, if the product be that of
another State, it is a tax on commerce between the States.
Welion v. Missouri, 91 U. S. 275; Webber v. Virginia, 103
U. S. 344; Darnell & Son Co. v. Memphis, 208 U. S. 113.
This is the assertion of plaintiffs in error; defendants in
error oppose a denial to the assertion and the denial is
supported by the Supreme Court on the authority of
Brown v. Houston, 114 U. S. 622; Singer Sewing Machine
Co. v. Brickell, 233 U. S. 304. The basis of the denial and
its support by the Supreme Court is that the automobiles
had passed out of interstate commerce and had reached
repose in the State, and blend with the other things of the

MICH. CENT. R. R. v. MARK OWEN & CO. 427
421.

Syllabus.

State, and became subject to intrastate regulation. It is
doubtful if that be a justifiable deduction from the findings
of the trial court. But comment is not necessary. It is
the finding of the court that the automobiles were in the
hands of the agents of the consigning corporations, and
therefore, a tax against them was practically a tax on
their importation into the State. It is not necessary to
say it would be useless to send them to the State if their
sale could be prevented by a prohibitive tax or one so
discriminating that it would prevent competition with
the products of the State. This is the ruling of the cases
which we have cited. It is especially the ruling in Darnell
& Son Co. v. Memphis, supra. The imposition of such a
tax is practically the usurpation of the power of Congress
over interstate commerce, and therefore illegal.
Judgment reversed and cause remanded for further
proceedings not inconsistent uith this opinion.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY

and MR. JusTicE BRANDEIS dis-

sent.

MICHIGAN CENTRAL RAILROAD COMPANY v.
MARK OWEN & COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
ILLINOIS.

No. 299.

Argued April 28, 1921.-Decided June 1, 1921.

1. Under a "uniform" interstate bill of lading providing that property
not removed, by the party entitled to receive it, within 48 hours
after the notice of its arrival, may be kept in car, depot or place of
delivery of the carrier, subject to a reasonable charge for storage and
to the carrier's responsibility as warehouseman only, or may, at the
carrier's option, be stored in a public or licensed warehouse at the

