OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
.Syllabus.

256 U. S.

UNITED STATES v. YUGINOVICH ET AL.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF OREGON.
No. 523.

Argued March 10, 1921.-Decided June 1, 1921.

1. Congress, under the taxing power, may tax intoxicating liquors,
notwithstanding their production is prohibited; and the fact that
it does so for a moral end as well as to raise revenue is not a constitutional objection. P. 462.
2. Section 3257 of the Revised Statutes, which, for the purpose of
protecting the revenues, made it an offense for a distiller to defraud, or attempt to defraud, the United States of a tax on the
spirits distilled by him, and penalized the offense by forfeiture of
the distillery, etc., and heavy fine and imprisonment, was superseded as respects persons manufacturing spirits for beverage purposes, by § 35, Title II, of the National Prohibition Law, which
imposes a double tax and an additional penalty of $500 6r $1,000
only, thus covering practically the same acts and inflicting a lighter

penalty. P. 403.
3. The repealing effect of this section of the later act is determined
in full recognition of its declaration that the act shall not "relieve
any person from any liability, civil or criminal, heretofore or hereafter* incurred under existing laws," but in the light also of
uettled principles governing the construction of penal statutes, the
Eighteenth Amendment, and the provisions of the act itself making
unlawful the possession of intoxicating liquors, or property designed
for the manufacture thereof, and providing for their destruction.
P. 463.
4. Section 3279 of the Revised Statutes, requiring distillers of spirits
to exhibit a sign "Registered Distillery" and punishing violations
by fine, § 3281, making it an offense, punishable by fine and imprisonment, to carry on the business of a distiller without giving
bond, and § 3282, punishing in like manner the making of mash in
any building other than a distillery authorized by law, were also
superseded by the National Prohibition Law, in so far as concerns the production of intoxicating liquor for beverage purposes.
P. 464.
266 Fed. Rep. 746, affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. YUGINOVICH.
450.

Argument for the United States.

ERROR to review a judgment of the District Court
sustaining a motion to quash, and a demurrer to, an indictment. The facts are stated in the opinion, post, 457.

Mrs. Annette Abbott Adams, Assistant Attorney General, with whom Mr. Leonard B. Zeisler, Special Assistant
to the Attorney General, was on the brief, for the United
States:
The revenue laws can be said to be inconsistent with
the National Prohibition Act only in so far as they interfere with its enforcement. In so far as their enforcement is an aid to the enforcement of the National Prohibition Act, it cannot be said in the face of the express
provision of Title .II,
§ 35, that the latter act repeals
them.
It has frequently been ruled that there is no inconsistency between taxing an article and prohibiting its production entirely. License Tax Cases, 5 Wall. 462; Foster
v. Speed, 120 Tennessee, 470; Cooley on Taxation, 3d
ed., p. 14; Youngblood v. Sexton, 32 Michigan, 406;
Conwell v. Sears, 65 Ohio St. 49; State v. Moeling, 129
La. Ann. 204; Carpenter v. State, 120 Tennessee, 586;
Webster v. Commonwealth, 89 Virginia, 154; State v.
Smiley, i01 N. Car. 709; State v. Smith, 126 N. Car. 10.57;
Commonwealth v. Nickerson, 236 Massachusetts, 281.
Applying the principle of these cases to the case at
bar, it is clear that the provision of Title II, §.35, of the
National Prohibition Act, that the act shall not relieve
anyone from paying the internal revenue tax imposed
upon distilled spirits, should be constri'-d to mean that
the- tax must be paid upon such spirits even though they
are distilled without a permit. That is its literal meaning
and the one best calculated to effect the purposes of the
act. In view of the provision of Title II, § 3, that "all
the provisions of this act shall be liberally construed to
the end that the use of intoxicating liquor as a beverage

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Argument for the United States.

256 U. S.

may be prevented," that is the construction which must
be adopted.
The purpose of the provision that "upon evidence
of such illegal manufacture or sale the tax shall be assessed against and collected from the person responsible
for such illegal manufacture or sale, in double the amount
now provided by law," is merely to confer/upon the Commissioner of Internal Revenue that power to assess taxes
where they have not been paid in the manner provided
by law, which was conferred upon him by Rev. Stats.,
§ 3182, generally, and by Rev. Stats., § 3253, where
distilled spirits are removed from the place where they
were distilled without paying the tax upon them -and
without being deposited in a bonded warehouse. This
power does not come into existence until after the distiller has failed to perform his duty with regard-to paying
the tax on distilled spirits as defined by other laws.
But the National Prohibition Act contains no provision
as to the amount of the tax, nor how it shall be assessed,
nor how or when it shall be paid, nor any measures to
prevent its evasion. It is obvious, therefore, that for
direction on all these matters the revenue laws must be
looked to. If the tax is not paid wben it is due, the
United States is defrauded and the. distillers subjected
to the penalties provided in Rev. Stats., § 3257.
The prevention of the secret distillation of spirits is as
necessary to the prevention of their distillation without
a permit as it is to prevent the evasion of the government tax on such spirits, and measures calculated to
prevent such secret distillation do not interfere with
but, on the contrary, are of mterial assistance in carrying out the purpose of the National Prohibition Act.
It will not be contended that the sections here involved
are actually inconsistent with any of its provisions.
The failure of the National Prohibition Act to provide
any means of preventing the evasion of the, tax which

UNITED STATES v. YUGINOVICH.
450.

Argument for the United States.

under its terms is imposed upon distilled spirits shows
that they were intended to be continued in force.
It may be argued, however, that although the revenue
laws are not actually inconsistent with the National
Prohibition Act, they are repealed by it because it covers
the whole subject-matter of the revenue laws and contains provisions plainly showing that it was intended as
a substitute for those laws.
This contention is clearly unsound. The National
Prohibition Act does not provide a substitute for the
system of government supervision of the production of
distilled spirits established under the revenue laws. The
only change which it makes in that respect is that since
the act came into effect no distilled spirits can be produced
at all except when authorized by a permit issued by the
Commissioner of Internal Revenue, and then only in
accordance with regulations prescribed by him and by
other provisions of the act, none of which are in conflict
with the provisions of the revenue laws. This is a necessary :deduction from the fact that under the National
Prohibition Act all distilled spirits, whether produced
with or without a permit, are subject to an internal revenue tax.
Since the act expresses the extent to which it was
intended to repeal prior laws, the rule that, where a
later act covers the same subject-matter as a prior one,
it operates as an implied repeal of such prior act, would
have no application, even if the National Prohibition
Act did cover the same subject-matter as the revenue
laws. United States v. Claflin, 97 U. S. 546; Henderson's
Tobacco, 11 Wall. 652; Great Northern Ry. Co. v. United
States, 155 Fed. Rep. 945, 953, affd. 208 U. S. 452.
It may be argued, however, that although the provisions of the revenue laws are not actually inconsistent
with those of the National Prohibition Act, an intention
to repeal the former must be presumed because the

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

256 U. S.

penalties embraced by the later statute are lighter than
those imposed by the earlier one for the same offenses.
But this presumption applies only where the offenses
denounced by both statutes are the same. It does not
apply if ,ach offense embraces an element not embraced
in the other, as is the case here.
It is true that under some circumstances the same
act may constitute a violation of both statutes, but
since the offenses denounced by the revenue laws are
not the same as those denounced by the National
Prohibition Act, a person committing such an act may be
prosecuted under both statutes. Carter v. McClaughry,
183 U. S. 365, 394; Gavieres v. United States, 220 U. S.
338; Ebeling v. Morgan, 237 U. S. 625.
The act shows clearly the intention that a prosecution under it should not be a bar to prosecution for the
same act if that act also constitutes an offense under the
revenue laws, for it provides in Title II, § 35, "Nor shall
this act relieve any person from any liability, civil or
criminal, heretofore or hereafter incurred under existing
laws."

The decisions of the lower federal courts sustain the
Government's contentions. United States v. Sohm, 265
Fed. Rep. 910; United States v. One Essex Touring Automobile, 266 Fed. Rep. 138; United States v. Turner,
266 Fed. Rep. 248. Contra: United States v. Windham,
264 Fed. Rep. 376; United States v. Puhac, 268 Fed.
Rep. 392; United States v. Stafoff, 268 Fed. Rep. 417.
Mr. Ransom H. Gillett, with whom Mr. Barnet Goldstein and Mr. Walter Jeifreys Carlin were on the brief,
for defendants in errorSections 3257, 3279, 3281, and 3282, Rev. Stats., are
contrary to the Constitution as amended by the Eighteenth Amendment. The revenue laws are for the purpose
of aiding the collection of the government revenue and

UNITED STATES v. YUGINOVICH.
450.

Argument for Defendants in Error.

taxes. United States v. Hill, 123 U. S. 681, 686; United
States v. Howell, 20 Fed. Rep. 718, 719; Hutton v. Terrill,
255 Fed. Rep. 860, 862. These sections, therefore, are
not penal statutes intended to punish violations of a
statute or the Constitution, but are mere means to assure
the payment of taxes imposed in other sections of the
same acts upon lawful and constitutional enterprises.
Edwards v. Wabash Ry. Co., 264 Fed. Rep. 610.
The constitutional policy of the United States on the
liquor question is now shown by the Eighteenth Amendment, and these taxing statutes passed fifty years ago
cannot be continued in opposition to that policy. License
Tax Cases, 5 Wall. 462, 474; Knowlton v. Moore, 178
U. S. 41, 61. "Subject to a compliance with the limitations in the Constitution, the taxing power of Congress
extends to all usual objects of taxation." Knowlton
v. Moore, supra. Certainly the power does not extend
to acts prohibited by the Constitution itself. The acts
for which a tax is sought to be imposed and collected from
the defendants are acts forbidden by the Constitution
and made criminal by a statute passed to carry into
effect the constitutional provision. While this court
has never passed directly upon the proposition of laying
a tax upon crime, it is a fundamental principle of morality
and justice, no less than an indispensable requirement
of a sound public policy, that Congress cannot lay a tax
and attempt to collect a revenue from an act that is
forbidden by the Constitution. See License Tax Cases,
supra, 469; People v: Raynes, 3 California, 366.
The enforcement provisions of § 5, Title I, and § 28,
Title II, of the National Prohibition Act, merely confer
the power to use existing governmental agencies formerly
used to enforce laws now repealed. The intent of Congress was simply to turn over to the proper officers to
enforce the new law the machinery built up in enforcing
the prior law, and this fact in itself is an indication of the

456

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

256 U. S.

legislative intent to repeal existing laws designed to
enforce payment of a tax.
Section 35 of Title II, furnishes no authority for holding that the revenue laws affecting the 'manufacture of
intoxicating liquors are not repealed by the constitutional provision. That section provides that it "shall
not relieve anyone from paying any taxes or other charges
imposed upon the manufacture or traffic in such liquor."
"Such liquor" means liquor the manufacture and sale
oi which is permitted by the act, i. e., liquor for nonbeverage purposes and wine for sacramental purposes.
The clause providing that '"all provisions of law that are
inconsistent" with the act are repealed, expressly repeals
the sections of the Revised Statutes here in question.
Those sections provide for a license for and a tax on the
manufacture of that kind of liquor the manufacture of
which is forbidden by the act itself, and hence are provisions of law "inconsistent" with the National Prohibition Act.
When Congress seeks to superimpose upon the punishment for violation of the National Prohibition Act the
additional punishment it heretofore had imposed for
violation of the internal revenue laws, it clearly has exceeded its powers and infringed the constitutional rights
of citizens under the Fifth and Sixth Amendments.
The sections of the Revised Statutes relating to intoxicating liquors were repealed by the National Prohibition Act. With the adoption of the Eighteenth
Amendment the public policy of the Nation changed
and the liquor traffic became in itself an illegal and improper business. The National Prohibition Act was
passed in furtherance of this changed public policy; it
was intended to provide a complete system, in and of
itself, for the regulation of intoxicating liquors for beverage
and non-beverage purposes. Under these circumstances
the well-known rule of implied repeal of statutes must be

UNITED STATES v. YUGINOVICH.
450.

Opinion of the Court.

applied. 22 Cyc. 1606; United States v. Ranlett, 172 U.
S. 133, 140, 141; Daviess v. Fairbairn,3 How. 636; New
Jersey Steamboat Co. v. The Collector, 18 Wall. 478;
Henderson's Tobacco, 11 Wall. 652, 657; United States v.
Barr, 24 Fed. Cas. 1016, 1017; United States v. Cheeseman,
25 Fed. Cas. 416; Rogers v. Nashville &c. Ry. Co., 91
Fed. Rep. 299, 323.
The National Prohibition Act is a penal, regulatory,
and prohibitive statute. The Revised Statutes, supra,
are tax and revenue statutes pure and simple. There is
a basic repugnancy that cannot be overcome, and even
the attempted saving clause of theNational Prohibition
Act is not sufficient to prevent the application of the
well-settled rules of law.
The National Prohibition Act also comes within the
rule that a statute covering the whole subject-matter of
a former one, adding offenses and varying the procedure,
operates, not cumulatively, but by way of substitution,
and impliedly repeals the former. United States v. Claflin,
97 U. S. 546, 551; Norris v. Crocker, 13 How. 429, 438.
In this connection the rule of clemency has application. A subsequent statute imposing milder penalties
impliedly repeals any former act on the, subject. Smith
v. State, 1 Stew. 506; State v. Whitworth, 8 Port. 434;
People v. Tisdale, 57 California, 104; Hayes v. State,
55 Indiana, 99; United States v. Windham, 264 Fed. Rep.
376. In every instance, the penalties for violations set
forth in the National Prohibition Act are not as severe
as those contained in the Revised Statutes.
Mr. Wayne B. Wheeler, by leave of court, filed a brief
as amicus curum.
MR. JusT cE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
This case is here under the Criminal Appeals Act.
34 Stat. 1246. The indictment is in four counts.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

The first count, based on § 3257 of the Revised Statutes, 6 Comp. Stats., § 5993, charges the defendants with
unlawfully engaging in the business of distillers within
the intent and meaning of the internal revenue laws of
the United States; and that in fact they did distill spirits
subject to the internal revenue tax imposed by the laws
of the United States; and did defraud and attempt to
defraud the United States of the tax on said spirits.
The second count, based on § 3279 of the Revised Statutes, 6 Comp. Stats., § 6019, charges that the defendants
failed to keep on the distillery, conducted by them, any
sign exhibiting the name or firm of the distiller, with the
words "Registered Distillery," as required by statute.
The third count, based on § 3281 of the Revised Statutes,
6 Comp. Stats., § 6021, charges the defendants with
carrying on the biiness of distilling within the intent
and meaning of the internal revenue laws of the United
States without giving the bond required by law. The
fourth count, based on § 3282 of the Revised Statutes,
6 Comp. Stats., § 6022, charges the defendants with unlawfully making a mash, fit for distillation, in a building
not a distillery duly authorized by law.
The defendants interposed a motion to quash the
indictment upon the grounds that the acts of Congress
under which the same was found were repealed before
the finding of the indictment, and that the acts charged
to have been committed by them were after the date
upon which the Eighteenth Amendment to the Federal
Constitution and the Volstead Act became effective.
Defendants also filed a demurrer to the indictment on
practically the same grounds. The motion to quash and
the demurrer were sustained by the District Court.
266 Fed. Rep. 746.
The sections of the Revised Statutes may be summarized as follows: Section 3257 makes it an offense to
defraud or attempt to defraud the United States of a tax

UNITED STATES v. YUGINOVICH.
450.

Opinion of the Court.

upon spirits distilled by one carrying on the business of a
distiller; provides for forfeiting the distillery and the
distilling apparatus and all spirits found in the distillery
or on the distillery premises, and subjects the offender to
a fine of not less than $500 or more than $5,000, and
imprisonment of not less than six months or more than
three years. Section 3279 requires distillers to exhibit
on the outside of their place of business a sign with the
words: "Registered Distillery." A violation of this
section subjects the offender to a fine of $500. Section
3281 makes it an offense to carry on the business of a
distiller without having given bond. For such offense
the penalty is a fine from $1,000 to $5,000 and imprisonment not less than six months or more than two years.
Section 3282 makes it penal to make or permit mash to be
made in any building other than a distillery authorized
by law. A violation of this section subjects the offender
to a fine of not less than $500 or more than $5,000, and
imprisonment of not less than six months or more than
two years.
These statutes have long been part of the federal internal revenue legislation, and'were passed under the
authority of the taxing power conferred upon Congress
by the Constitution of the United States. At the time
of their enactment it was legal, so far as the Federal
Government was concerned, to manufacture and sell
ardent spirits for beverage purposes. The Government
derived large revenue from taxing the business, which
it sought to realize and protect by the system of laws
of which the sections in question were a part. This
policy was radically changed by the adoption of the
Eighteenth Amendment to the Federal Constitution,
and the enactment of legislation to make the Amendment effective. The Eighteenth Amendment in comprehensive and clear language prohibits the manufacture
or sale of intoxicating liquors in the United States for

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

beverage purposes, and confers upon Congress the power
to enforce the Amendment by appropriate legislation.
To this end, Congress passed a national prohibition
law known as the Volstead Act. 41 Stat. 305. It is a
comprehensive statute intended to prevent the manufacture and sale of intoxicating liquors for beverage
purposes.
Before taking up the sections of the Revised Statutes,
some provisions -of the Volstead Act may be appropriately
referred to. Section 3, Title II, provides that after the
Eighteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the
United States goes into effect it shall be illegal to manufacture, sell, barter, transport, import, export, deliver,
furnish or possess any intoxicating liquor except as authorized in the act. Liquor for non-beverage purposes
and wine for sacramental purposes may be manufactured, purchased, sold, bartered, transported, imported,
exported, delivered, furnished and possessed, but only
as in the act provided, ,and the Commissioner of Internal
Revenue may issue permits therefor. The act contains
many provisions to make effective the purposes declared in § 3. Section 25 makes it unlawful to have or
possess any liquor or property designed for the manufacture of liquor intended for use in violation of the act,
or which has been so used, and provides that no property
rights shall exist in any such liquor or property. The
same section provides for the issue of search warrants,
and if it be found that any liquor or property is unlawfully held or possessed, or has been unlawfully used, the
liquor and all property designed for the unlawful manufacture of liquor shall be destroyed, unless the court
otherwise orders. Section 29 provides that any person
who manufactures or sells liquor in violation of Title II
of the act shall for a first offense be fined not more
than $1,000, or be imprisoned not exceeding six months,
and for a second or subsequent offense shall be fined

UNITED STATES v. YUGINOVICH.
450.

Opinion of the Court.

not less than $200 nor more than $2,000 and be imprisoned for not less than one month nor more than five
years.
In Title III elaborate provision is made for the production of alcohol in industrial alcohol plants. It provides for the taxation of such alcohol, and excepts itdustrial alcohol plants and bonded warehouses for the
storage and distribution of industrial alcohol from certain sections of the Revised Statutes.
It is well settled that in cases of this character the
construction or sufficiency of the indictment is not
brought before us. United States v. Keitel, 211 U. S.
370; United States v. Stevenson, 215 U. S. 190. For the
purpose of interpreting the statute we adopt the meaning
placed upon the indictment by the court below. United
States v. Colgate & Co., 250 U. S. 300. As that court
evidently construed the statutes upon the assumption
that the charges had relation to intoxicating liquors intended for beverage purposes, we shall follow that view
of the indictment in determining whether the former
statutes are still in force.
Section 35 1 (in the margin) in its first sentence repeals
I Sec. 35. All provisions of law that are inconsistent with this Act are
repealed only to the extent of such inconsistency and the regulations
herein provided for the manufacture or traffic in intoxicating liquor

shall be construed as in addition to existing laws. This Act shall not
relieve anyone from paying any taxes or other charges imposed upon
the manufacture or traffic in such liquor. No liquor revenue stamps
or tax receipts for any illegal manufacture or sale shall be issued in
advance, but upon evidence of such illegal manufacture or sale a tax
shall be assessed against, and collected from,. the person responsible
for such illegal manufacture or sale in double the amount now )ovided by law, with an additional penalty of $500 on retail dealers
and $1,000 on manufacturers.

The payment of such tax or penalty

shall give no right to engage in the manufacture or sale of such liquor,
or relieve anyone from criminal liability, nor shall this Act relieve any
person from any liability, civil or criminal, heretofore or hereafter
incurred under existing laws. The commissioner, with the approval

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

all prior acts to the extent of their inconsistency with
the National Prohibition Act, to that extent and no
more, and provides that no revenue stamps, or tax receipts, shall be issued in advance for the illegal manufacture or sale of intoxicating liquors, and that upon
evidence of such illegal manufacture or sale the tax shall
be assessed in double the amount now provided by law,
with an additional penalty of $500 as to retail dealers
and $1,000 as to manufacturers, and that the payment
of such tax or penalty shall not give the right to engage
in the manufacture or sale of such liquors, or relieve
anyone from criminal liability.
That Congress may under the broad authority of the
taxing power tax intoxicating liquors notwithstanding
their production is prohibited and punished, we have no
question. The fact that the statute in this aspect had a
moral end in view as well as the raising of revenue, presents no valid constitutional objection to its enactment.
License Tax Cases, 5 Wall. 462, 471; In re Kollock, 165
U. S. 526, 536; United States v. Jin Fuey Moy, 241 U. S.
394; United States v. Doremus, 249 U. S. 86. The question
remains, concerning the applicability of § 3257, involving
the right to punish for attempting to defraud the United
States of a tax, Did Congress intend to punish suck
violation of law by imposing the old penalty denounced
of the Secretary of the Treasury, may compromise any civil cause
arising under this title before bringing action in a court; and with the
approval of the Attorney General he may compromise any such cause
after action thereon has been commenced.
This section has given rise to different constructions in the federal
courts; in some it has been held that the National Prohibition Act has
repealed the old revenue laws. United Stlates v. Windham, 264 Fed.
Rep. 376; United States v. Puhac, 268 Fed. Rep. 392; United States
v. Stafoff, 268 Fed. Rep. 417; Reed v. Thurnond (C. C. A. 4th Circuit),
269 Fed. Rep. 252. Contra: United Stales v. Sohm, 265 Fed. Rep. 910;
United States v. Turner, 266 Fed. Rep. 248; United States. v. Farhat,
269 Fed. Rep. 33.

UNITED STATES v. YUGINOVICH.
450.

Opinion of the Court.

in § 3257 or as provided in the new and special provision
enacted in the Volstead Act?
It is the contention of the Government that § 35
saves the right to prosecute as to taxes, as well as the
acts charged as violative of the other sections of the
Revised Statutes, because of the phrase with which the
section concludes: ". . . nor shall this act relieve
any person from any liability, civil or criminal, heretofore or hereafter incurred under existing laws."
It is, of course, settled that repeals by implication are
not favored. It is equally well settled that a later statute
repeals former ones when clearly inconsistent with the
earlier enactments. United States v. Tynen, 11 Wall. 88.
In construing penal statutes, it is the rule that later enactments repeal former ones practically covering the
same acts but fixing a lesser penalty. The concluding
phrase of § 35 by itself considered is strongly indicative
of an intention to retain the old laws. But this section
must be interpreted in view of the constitutional provision
contained in the Eighteenth Amendment and in view of
the provisions of the Volstead Act intended to make that
Amendment effective.
Having in mind these principles and considering now
the first count of the indictment charging an attempt
to defraud and actually defrauding the Government
of the revenue tax, we do not believe that the general
language used at the close of § 35 evidences the intention
of Congress to inflict for such an offense the punishment
provided in § 3257 with the resulting forfeiture, fine, and
imprisonment, and at the same time to authorize prosecution and punishment under § 35 enacting lesser and
special penalties for failing to pay such taxes by imposing
a tax in double the amount provided by law, with an
additional penalty of $500 on retailers and $1,000 on
manufacturers. Moreover, the concluding words of the
first paragraph of § 35, as to all the offenses charged, must

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

be read in the light of established legal principles governing interpretation of statutes, and in view of the provisions
of the Volstead Act itself making it unlawful to possess
intoxicating liquor for beverage purposes, or property
designed for the manufacture of such liquor, and providing for their destruction. We agree with the court
below that while Congress manifested an intention to
tax liquors illegally as well as those legally produced,
which was within its constitutional power, it did not
intend to preserve the old penalties prescribed in § 3257
in addition to the specific provision for punishment made
in the Volstead Act.
We have less difficulty with the other sections of the
prior revenue legislation under which the charges, already set forth, are made. We think it was not intended
to keep on foot the requirement as to displaying the
words "Registered Distillery' in a place intended for
the production of liquor for beverage purposes which
could no longer be lawfully conducted; nor to require
a bond for the control of such production; nor to penalize
the making of mash in a distillery which could not be
authorized by law.
The questions before us solely concern the construction of the statutes involved, under an indictment pertaining to the production of liquor for beverage purposes,
and we think they were correctly answered in the opinion
of the court below. It follows that its judgment is
Affirmed.

