OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

NEW YORK CENTRAL & HUDSON RIVER RAILROAD COMPANY v. YORK & WHITNEY COMPANY.
YORK & WHITNEY COMPANY v. NEW YORK
CENTRAL & HUDSON RIVER RAILROAD
COMPANY.
ERROR AND CERTIORARI TO THE SUPERIOR COURT OF THE
STATE OF MASSACHUSETTS.
Nos. 280, 281.

Argued April 22, 1921.-Decided May 16, 1921.

Interstate shipments of perishable freight were consigned, subject to
lawful charges, to a commissi6n merchant, which paid the charges
demanded by the terminal carrier, accepted the freight, sold it and
remitted the net proceeds to the consignors, without having possession of the bills of lading or knowledge of their terms and conditions. By mistake of the carrier, the charges collected were less
than the lawful rates established under the Interstate Commerce
Act. Held, that the commission merchant was liable for the balance,
irrespective of contract and as a matter of law. P. 408. Pittsburgh,
Cincinnati,Chicago & St. Louis Ry. Co. v. Fink, 250 U. S. 577.
230 Massachusetts, 206, reversed in part and affrmed in part.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. William L. Parsons for New York Central &
Hudson River Railroad Co.
Mr. Amos L. Taylor for York & Whitney Co.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS delivered the

opinion of

the court.
Neither party was wholly successful in the courts below. 230 Massachusetts, 206, (May 24, 1918). Each has

N. Y. CENT. R. R. v. YORK & WHITNEY CO. 407
406.

Opinion of the Court.

asked and obtained a writ of error and also a writ of
certiorari. The latter properly bring the issues before
us, and the former must be dismissed.
The Railroad Company as terminal carrier sued York
& Whitney Company, a commission merchant, to recover
the balance claimed for freight and refrigeration on nine
carloads of melons, vegetables and fruit consigned to the
latter, subject to lawful charges, and delivered at Boston
during the years 1911 and 1912. They were shipped in
interstate commerce upon straight bills of lading approved as to form by the Interstate Commerce Commission, but none of these came into the consignee's
possession and it had no knowledge of their issuance or
terms.
When York &Whitney Company accepted the cars
it paid all charges claimed. The 'merchandise was sold at
once and the net proceeds remitted to the shippers. Later,
the Railroad Company discovered that it had collected
less than lawful rates established under the Interstate
Commerce Act, -and thereuppn demanded the balance
alleged to be due by reason of such undercharges. Maintaining it. had accepted the shipments upon the understanding that the charges were as reported, and had not
agreed to pay more, York & Whitney Company refused
the demand.
Commission merchants often receive from strangers
shipments of perishable articles for sale at market prices.
Under a trade custom such things are promptly disposed

of and the net proceeds remitted to the consignors. Successful conduct of the business requires prompt settlements. The court below held that whether York &
Whitney Company impliedly agreed to pay the rates
imposed by law was a question of fact to be determined
upon consideration of all the circumstances. It accordingly approved a judgment, entered upon a verdict,
favorable to that company as to charges upon one car-

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Syllabus.

256 U. S.

load (No. 280), and in behalf of the Railroad for .those
claimed on account of eight carloads (No. 281).
We think the doctrine announced in Pittsburgh, Cincinnati, Chicago & St Louis Ry. Co. v. Fink, 250 U. S. 577,
(November 10, 1919), is controlling, and that the liability
of York & Whitney Company was a question of law.
The transaction between the parties amounted to an
assumption by the consignee to pay the only lawful rate
it had the right to pay or the carrier the right to charge.
The consignee could not escape the liability imposed by
law through any contract with the carrier.
The judgment of the court below so far as challenged in
No. 280 must be reversed and the cause remanded for
further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
The judgment so far as challenged in No. 281 is
Affirmed.

VICKSBURG, SHREVEPORT & PACIFIC RAILWAY
COMPANY ET AL. v. ANDERSON-TULLY COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIFTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 270. Argued March 24, 1921.-Decided May 16, 1921.
1. The provision of the amended Interstate Commerce Act allowing an
action to enforce a reparation order to be brought in any district
"through which the road of the carrier runs" (ยง 16, c. 309, 36 Stat.
589, 554), applies to a district where the defendant owns no railroad
but has its cars hauled by, and over the line of, another carrier for
a mileage compensation to and from a point therein where both
share the expenses of freight and ticket offices at which the defendant issues tickets and bills of lading to the points on its system
outside pursuant to tariffs making no divisions of rates between
the two. P. 411.

