PHILA. & READ. RY. CO. v. DI DONATO.
319.

327

Opinion of the Court.

conveyed or as to the objects of the testator's bounty,
provided such wills are in accordance with the regulations
and meet the approval of the Secretary of the Interior."
The court added that the conclusion was in accord with
the views of the Supreme Court of the State, referring
to Brock v. Ketfer, 59 Oklahoma, 5.

Decree affirmed.

PHILADELPHIA & READING RAILWAY COMPANY v. DI DONATO.
CERnoRAR TO TEE SUPREM COURT OF THE STATE O,
PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 297. Argued April 28, 192.-Deeided May 16, 1921.
A watchman employed on an interstate railroad at a public grade

crosig to signal both interstate and intrastate trams and guard
the tracks against disorder and obstruction, is employed in interstate commerce, irrespective of the interstate or intrastate character
of the particular train he may be flagging when injured. P. 329.

Pedan v. Ddawae, Lackawaw & Weaern R. R. Co., 229 U. S.
146.
206 Pa. St.412, rversed.
Tm case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. George Gowen Parry for petitioner.
Mr. FrancisH. Bohlen for respondent.
MR. JuricEz MCKNNA delivered the opinion of the
court.
Certiorari directed to the review of a judgment of the
Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, affirming a judgment

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

of the Court of Common Pleas of the County of Philadelphia, which affirmed an award of the Workmen's
Compensation Board of the State of Pennsylvania,
allowed respondent, as widow of Pasquale Di Donato who,
in the course of his employment by the Railway Company, was killed. Her petition was presented in the legal
course to the Board, and assigned for an investigation
to a referee who reported an award in accordance with it.
The Company prosecuted an appeal to the Board which
affirmed the award and dismissed the appeal. The judgment was successively affirmed, as we have said, by
the Court of Common Pleas and by the Supreme Court..
There is no connected finding of facts aside from conclusions of law. The referee found that Di Donato was
employed by the Company "as a crossing watchman "
at a particular public crossing, and that on larch 18, 1918,
at about 7:15 P. M. "while acting in the course of his
employment . . . while flagging a train
was struck by a train of the defendant company and
instantly killed." The findings then recite that the
Company contended that at the time of the occurrence
of the injury Di Donato "was engaged in interstate
commerce," but it is added that the Company "failed to
prove by the weight of the evidence that, such was the
fact." And further, that. the Company "showed that
many interstate shipments and trains passed over the
rails of the defendant company . . . but they [it]
did not offer any evidence whatever to show that at the
time of the occurrence of the injury Pasquale Di Donato
was engaged in performing some duty incident to the
passage of an interstate train; and since the burden is on
the defendant to show by the weight of the evidence that
the injured employee was at the time of the occurrence
of the injury engaged in interstate commerce, we find,
as a fact," that at such time Di Donato "was not engaged
in work inci(enit to interstate colinerce." It was further

PHILA. & READ. RY. CO. v. DI DONATO.
327.

329

Opinion of the Cour.

found that the Company was "engaged in both intrastate
and interstate commerce."
The finding by the Board was that Di Donato "ws
killed in the course of his employment for the defendant "
while he "was employed as a watchman upon a public
crossing" where a public street "crosses the tracks" of the
Company. And that "an agreement was placed upon record that the defendant is engaged in both intrastate and
interstate traffic." The deduction of the Board was the
same as that of the referee, that the defense of interstate
commerce when set up by the defendant became a matter
of proof by competent and reliable testimony, and that the
burden of proof of the same was thrown upon the defendant, and "that the character of the employee's undertaking
in this respect must be determined by the work he had actually been engaged in at the very time of the accident."
The facts and the conclusions thus expressed by the
referee and the Board were, in effect, repeated by the
Supreme Court and made the grounds of decision.
The facts as found we may assume to exist, facts, however, disassociated from legal deductions from them.
These facts are only that Di Donato was employed by
the Company as a flagman at a public crossing to signal
both intrastate and interstate trains. In other words,
his employment concerned both kinds of trains without
distinction between them or character of service. He was
an instrument of safety for the conduct of both. And in
the course of his employment he was killed by a train
whose character is not disclosed. These are the facts,
all else the assertion of legal propositions. We are brought,
therefore, to a consideration of the soundness and determining quality of the legal propositions.
In Pedersen v. Delaware, Lackawanna & Western R. R.
Co., 229 U. S. 146, this court had occasion to consider the
instrumentalities of commerce and to determine whether
they should have intrastate or interstate character. The

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

caze was concerned with mechanism-tracks and bridges,
but there was a human element as well, one who was
engaged in keeping the mechanisms in repair, and, it
was decided, that, as they were instruments of interstate
as well as of intrastate commerce, he was engaged in
interstate commerce. It was said, "true, a track or
bridge may be used in both interstate and intrastate
commerce, but when it is so used it is none the less an
instrumentality of the former; nor does its double use
prevent the employment of those who are engaged in its
repair or in keeping it in suitable condition for use from
being an employment in interstate commerce."
Being the same in principle if not in instances, the
following cases are urged to be of pertinent illustration,
Southern Pacific Co. v. Industrial Accident Commission,
174 California, 8; Graber v. Duluth, South Shore & Atlantic
Ry. Co., 159 Wisconsin, 414; Chicago & Alton R. R. Co. v.
IndustrialCommission,288 Illinois, 603; Flynn v. New York,
Susquehanna & Western R. R. Co., 90 N. J. L. 451. Also
Southern Ry. Co. v. Pueket, 244 U. S. 571, and cases cited.
Respondent resists the application of the Pedersen Case
and contends that the other cases do not militate against
the judgment in the pending case. They, and the Pedersen Case, it is said, represent different classes: the Pedersen
Case "those in which it is impossible to assign the service
to any particular traffic movement, since the work is done
on some instrumentality which is used indiscriminately
in the general traffic of the road"; the other cases, "those
in which the service is given to expedite or secure the
safety of some particular traffic movement." To the latter
class counsel for respondent assign the present case, and
the Supreme Court accepted that -iew. Counsel, however,
feel an impediment to their view in the fact that this court

has given the Pedersen Case as authority for cases which
counsel assign to the other class, that is, whose instance

was the safety of some particular movement. But grant-

PH[ILA & READ. RY. CO. v. DI DONATO.
327.

331

Dissent.

ing there is a basis for the classification that counsel make,
we think the present case falls within the Pedersen Case.
The service of a flagman concerns the safety of both
commerces and to separate his duties by moments of
time or particular incidents of its exertion would be to
destroy its unity and commit it to confusing controversies.
And besides, as observed by the Supreme Court of the
State of California in Southern Pacific Co. v. Industrial
Accident Commision, supra, Di Donato's duty had other
purpose than the prevention of a disaster to a particular
train. It had purpose as well to the condition of the
tracks and their preservation from disorder and obstructions. This service and the other service cannot be separated in duty and responsibility. It is to be remembered
that not only the remedy of one employee is involved
in a particular duty but that other employees and other
remedies are to be considered as well, and the defenses to
them, and that behind them are the respective powers
that may have ordained them. Therefore, whether they
be of state or congresional power, there is an equal
necessity for their accurate delimitation. This case,
therefore, has importance beyond the interest of the
parties to it. Its principle and example, reinforcing the
Pedersen Case and the cases based upon it, make a test by
which future cases may be assigned to intrastate or interstate commerce and mark the power and policies that
may be necessary or convenient to either.
As we deduce from the duty of Di Donato his employment to have been in interstate commerce, we have no
occasion to consider what presumptions might be indulged
if his employment were not thereby established, whether
for or against intrastate commerce.
Judgment reversed and cause remanded for further proceedings ntinconsistentwith this opinwn.
MI. JUSTICE CT-Ah

dissents.

