NEW YORK TRU8T CO. v. EISNER.
Comond for Parties.

NEW

YORK TRUST COMPANY ET AL., AS
EXECUTORS OF PURDY, v. EISNER.

O
mino 70
THE

DJHICT COURT OF THE UNrrD srATX FOR
OUTHEW DICNW,

OF NEW YORK.

No. 29& Agued April 25, 26, 19.-Decided May 16, 1121.

1. The Act of BSq

nba 8, 1916, c. 463, Title HI, j201 d&., 39

Sta. 777, imposes a tax an the transfer of the net estate of every

dicedeit, gmated accordingto the value as ascertained by deductlug, in the ose of a rmdent, from the grwm estate, fumd, adminand a specified eimnpaidim and ol expenss -addar,
tim; the tax is due in myear from the decedmit's death, is
ad isma .
eW piamily by the pemmuli
the mm-estate except such part as ispaid out for
lSm
-lmwed ehaqM etc. Hel, an indirect tax, not requiring apporinterfmmce with the rights
tiommt, and not -an cm tina
of the States to reguate ducait'and distzlhitimm. P. 34
am v. Mr., 178 U. EL 41.

Kmmi-

2.Tbat Se t my cosim inequaiies in mumm reived by
ba.A.iries does not dect its validity. P. 349.

3. -OM~s apmos the mstte, dieducible

2fl of the act in,
Ine

g net valn. affect th estate as a whole, amd tlfldre
u"m
tames an the sares
and sues
do mt mble state Iitn
of i
hviml beneiicies P. 35D.
= A L e2D, amme

T

asem
is staed in the opinimL

Mr. Gmp &dtmmd, with whom Mr. Franc& J.
Mcdinphim ad MT. H. T. Nemmmb wme on the briefs,
for plaintffs in error.
Th Soiittor Gemerl for defendant in error.
Mr. John B. Geason, for the State Comptroller of the
State of New York, by speia leave of court.
Mr. J. Wedon Afien, Attorney General vt the Commonwealth of ]awKhusetts, for the Commonwealth of Mas-

achusetts, by specia leave of court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

Mr. Clifford L. Hilton, Attorney General of the State
of Minnesota, and Mr. Egbert S. Oakley, by leave of court.,
filed a brief as amici curiMr. Arcadius L. Agatin and Mr. Francis H. De Groat,
by leave of court, filed a brief as am"cz curim.
Mx. JusTcE HoTiS delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a suit brought by the executors of one Purdy to
recover an estate tax levied under the Act of Congress of
September 8, 1916, c. 463, Title II, § 201, 39 Stat. 756,
777, and paid under duress on December 14, 1917. According to the complaint Purdy died leaving a will and
codicil directing that all succession, inheritance and transfer taxes should be paid out of the residuary estate, which
was bequeathed to the descendants of his brother. The
value of the residuary estate was $427,414.96, subject to
some administration expenses. The executors had been
required to pay and had paid inheritance and succession
taxes to New York ($32,988.97) and other States ($4,780.91) amounting in all to $37,769.88. The gross estate as
defined in § 202 of the act of Congress was $769,799.39;
funeral expenses and expenses of administration, except
the above taxes, $61,322.08; leaving a net value for the
payment of legacies, except as reduced by the taxes of
the United States, of $670,707.43. The plaintiffs were
compelled to pay $23,910.77 to the United States, no
deduction of any part of the above mentioned $37,769.88
being allowed. They allege that the act of Congress is
unconstitutional, and also that it was misconstrued in
not allowing a deduction of state inheritance and suc-

cession taxes as charges within the meaning of § 203. On
demurrer the District Court dismissed the suit.
By § 201 of the act, "a tax . . . equal to the following percentage, of the value of the net estate, to be

NEW YORK TRUST CO. s. EISNER.
345.

Opinio of the Court.

determined a provided in section two hundred and three,
u hereby imposed upon the transfer of the net estate
of every decedent dying after the passage of this Act,"
with percentages rising from one per centum of the amount
of the net estate not in exess of $50,000 to ten per centum
of the amount in exess of $5,000,000. Section 202 gives
the mode of determining the value of the gross estate.
Then, by § 203 it is enacted "That for the purpose of the
tax the value of the net estate shall be determined-(a) In
the case of a resident, by deducting from the value of the
gram estate-(1) Such amounts for funeral expenses,
adminitration expeses, claims against the estate, unpaid mortgages, loses incurred during the settlement
of the estate arising from fires, storms, shipwreck, or
other casualty, and from theft, when such losses are not
come
for by insurance or otherwise, support during
the settlement of the estate of those dependent upon the
decedent, and such other charges against the estate, as
are allowed by the laws of the jurisdiction, whether within
or without the United States, under which the estate is
being administered; and (2) an exemption of $50,000."
The tax is to be due in one year after the decedent's death.
§ 204. Within thirty days after qualifying the executor
is to give written notice to the collector and later to make
return of the grs estate, deductions allowed, net estate
and the tax payabl thereon. § 205. -The executor is to
paytheta
1 207. The tax is alien for ten years on the
grow estate except such part as is paid out for allowed
charg §.209, and if not paid within sixty days after it is
due is to be collected by a suit to subject the decedent's
property to be sold §208. In cae of collection from
sore person other than the executor, the same section
provides for contribution from or marshalling of persons
subject to equal or prior liability "it being the purpose and
intent of this title that so far as is practicable and unless
otherwise directed by the will of the decedent the tax

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

shall be paid out of the estate before its distribution."
These provisions are assailed by the plaintiffs in error
as an unconstitutional interference with the rights of the
States to regulate descent and distribution, as unequal
and as a direct tax not apportioned as the Constitution
requires.
The statement of the constitutional objections urged
imports on its face a distinction that, if correct, evidently
hitherto has escaped this Court. See United States v.
Field, 255 U. S. 257. It is admitted, as since Knowlton v.
Moore, 178 U. S. 41, it has to be, that the United States
has power to tax legacies, but it is said that this tax is
cast upon a transfer while it is being effectuated by the
State itself and therefore is an intrusion upon its processes,
whereas a legacy tax is not imposed until the process is
complete. An analogy is sought in the difference bet-wem
the attempt of a State to tax commerce among the States
and its right after the goods have become mingled with
the general stock in the State. A consideration of the
parallel is enough to detect the fallacy. A tax that was
directed solely against goods imported into the State and
that was determined by the fact of importation would
be no better after the goods were at rest in the State than
before. It would be as much an interference with commerce in one case as in the other. Dwrel & Son Co. v.
Memphis, 208 U. S. 113. Welton v. Missouri, 91 U. S.
275. Conversely if a tax on the property distributed by
the laws of a State, determined by the fact that distribution has been accomplished, is valid, a tax determined by
the fact that distribution is about to begin is no greater
interference and is equally good.
Knowlton v. Moore, 178 U. S. 41, dealt, it is true, with
a legacy tax. But the tax was met with the same objection; that it usurped or interfered with the exercise of state
powers, and the answer to the objection was based upon
general considerations and treated the "power to transmit

NEW YORK TRUST CO. v. EISNER.
Opinim d U COCzrL

U5

or the tr
o or receipt of property by death"
s all standing on the same footing. 178 U. & 57, 59.

After the daborate discussion that the subject received
int
thi c

we thk

it

sa

to dwel upon matters

that in princ*Ie wene disposed of there. The same may
be maid of the argument that the tax is direct and therefore is void for want of apportionment It is argued that

when the tax is on the privilege of receiving, the tax is
indirect because it may be avoided, whereas here the tax
is nevitable and therefore direct. But that matter also
i disposed of by Knwtmo v. Moore, not by an attempt
to make some scientific distinction, which would be at

least difficult, but on an interpretation of language by
its traditional use-on the 'practical and historical ground

that this kind of tax always has been regarded as the
antitbesis of a direct tax; "has ever been treated as a

duty or emmse, because of the particular occasion which
gives rime to its levy." 178 U. & 81-8
Upon this point
a page of history is worth a volume of logic.

The iequaliti

charged upon the statute, if there is

so bdamy, wre all inequwliti

in the-amounts gta

beneficiaris might receive in case of estates of different
yahues, of different prportkms between real and personal

etate, and of different numbers of recipients; or if there
is a will affect legatees. As to the inequalities in case of a
wil they must be taken to be contemplated by the testator.
He kmws the law and the consequences of the disposition
fthat be voomk.
As to intestate succemssors the tax is not
impmedI upon then but precedes them and the fact that
they may reeeive les or different sums because of the
statute does not concern the United States.
thee remaims only the construction of the act. The

argunut against its. constitutionality is based upon a
premise that is unfavorable to the contntion of the
plaintiffs in &rorupon this point. For if the tax attaches
to the estate before distribution-if it is a tax on the right

OCTODBER TERM, 1920
256 U. S.

Syllabu.

to transmit, or on the transmision at its beginning,
obviously it attaches to the whole estate except so far as
the statute sets a limit. "Charges against the estate"
as pointed out by the Court below are only charges that
affect the estate as a whole, and therefore do not include

taxes on the right of individual beneficiaries.

This

reasoning excludes not only the New York succession
tax but those paid to other States, which can stand no
better than that paid in 'New York. What amount New
York may take as the basis of taxation and questions of
priority between the United States and the State are
not open in this case.

Decree affim~e4.

AMERICAN BANK & TRUST COMPANY ET AL v.
FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF ATLANTA,
GEORGIA, ET AL
APPEAL FROM TM

CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEAL8 FOR ThE
FIFMh CIRCUIT.

No. 679.

Argued April 13, 14, l9l.-cided May 16, 1921.

1. A suit against a Federal Reserve Bank and its officers, hdd a suit
arising under a law of the United States within the meaning of §24,

eL 1, of the Judicial Code, such banks being cmatures of the Fedemi
Reserve Act. P. 356.
2. A Federal Reserve Bank is not a national banking assodation
within §24, d. 16, of the Judicial Code, which declares that such
associations, for the purpose of suing and being sued, shall (exept
in certain cases) be deemed ctizens of the States where they are
located. P. 357.

3. Several country banks of Georgia alleged that they derived an
important part of their income from charges on payment of checis
drawn by their depositors when seat in, usually through other banks,

from a di-tance; that banks of the Federal Reerve System we

