UNITED STATES v. NORTHERN PAC. RY. CO. 51
Syllabus.

UNITED STATES v. NORTHERN PACIFIC
RAILWAY COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 325. Argued October 7, 1920.-Decided April 11, 1921.
1. The Northern Pacific Railroad Act of July 2, 1864, c. 217, 13 Stat.
365, and the Joint Resolution of May 31, 1870, 16 Stat. 378, embodied a proposal that, if the company would bring about the construction and operation of the railroad, desired for the advantage of
the Government and the public, it should receive in return the land
comprehended by the granting provisions of the legislation. P. 63.
2. By the company's acceptance of this proposal, followed by construction and operation of the railroad and acceptance of the railroad by the President, the proposal was converted into a contract,
entitling the company to performance by the Government. P. 64'
3. The provision relating to indemnity land was as much a part of
the grant and contract as the one relating to land in place; and
the right of the grantee to land within the indemnity limits in lieu
of land lost within the place limits was intended to be a substantial
right such as is protected by the due process clause of the Constitution. P. 64.
4. Assuming that the land applicable as indemnity remaining within
the indemnity limits was not enough to make up for unsatisfied
losses in the place limits, the Government could not deprive the company's successor of its right to such land by setting it aside for forest purposes. Pp. 64-66.
5. The rule that, under such a grant, no right of the railroad company
to land within the indemnity limits attaches to any specific tract
until the company has selected it, applies as between the company
and settlers under the homestead and preemption laws (the continued operation of which within the indemnity limits the granting
act itself provides for), and applies also as between the company
and the United States when the lands available for indemnity exceed the losses, but it has no application as between the company
and the United States if the lands available for indemnity are insufficient for that purpose. P. 65.
6. The question whether lands remaining within the indemnity limits

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Argument for the United States.

256 U. S.

were sufficient to satisfy losses in the place limits was primarily for
the Land Department to decide. P. 67.
7. But, where the Department, without deciding this question, reserved part of the indemnity lands for forest purposes, and afterwards inadvertently issued a patent therefor to the railroad company upon its selection, held, that the question could be determined
in a suit brought later by the Government against the company to
set the patent aside, but only upon a clear showing of the facts, since
the decision might conclude both parties as to other lands as well as
those immediately involved. P. 67.
8. A report of the Commissioner of the General Land Office on the
adjustment of a railroad land grant showing a deficiency is not
enough to establish the existence of such deficiency, unless shown to
have been approved or consented to by the Secretary of the Interior,
since, under the adjustment Act of March 3, 1887, the supervision
of the adjustment was specially devolved upon the Secretary. P. 67.
9. A stipulation that all the lands received by the Northern Pacific
Company under its grant and all that it was possible for it to receive
thereafter, whether as place or indemnity lands, did not equal the
sum-total of all the odd-numbered sections within the primary or
place limits, held, not enough to establish
a deficiency, since the
measure of the grant might be less than the aggregate of the oddnumbered sections within the place limits, due to partial overlapping
with another like grant (SouthernPacific R. R. Co. v. United States,
183 U. S. 519), or to deductions under § 6 of the granting act if the
route followed the general line of another railroad with a prior grant;
and of the presence or absence of such conditions the courts could
not take judicial notice. P. 68.
10. The existence of such a deficiency when the Government withdrew
the lands in controversy is not established by a finding by the Secretary of the Interior that a deficiency existed six years later. P. 69.
264 Fed. Rep. 898, reversed.
THE case is stated in the opinion, post, 58.

Mr. Assistant Attorney General Nebeker, with whom Mr.
H. L. Underwood, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, was on the brief, for the U; it -d States:
No rights to lands within the indemnity limits attach

until an application to select is filed.

Ryan v. Railroad

Co., 99 U. S. 382, 386; St. Paul & Sioux City R. R. Co. v.

UNITED STATES v. NORTHERN PAC. RY. CO. 53
51.

Argument for the United States.

Winona & St. Peter R. R. Co., 112 U. S. 720, 731; Oregon
& CaliforniaR. R. Co. v. United States, No. 1, 189 U. S.
103, 112, 113; Osborn v. Froyseth, 216 U. S. 571, 577, 578;
United States v. Southern Pacific R. R. Co., 223 U. S. 565,
570, 571.
As the lands involved were at the date of filing of the
selection list already withdrawn for forestry purposes,
they were not subject to selection. United States v. Midwest Oil Co., 236 U. S. 459; Act of March 3, 1891, c. 561,
§ 24, 26 Stat. 1095, 1103; Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul
Ry. Co. v. United States, 244 U. S. 351, 356. Hence there
were no rights taken away by or in conflict with the
withdrawal.
There is no obligation upon the part of the United
States to preserve lands within indemnity limits for the
benefit of the company. Hewitt v. Schultz, 180 U. S. 139;
Northern Pacific R. R. Co. v. Miller, 7 L. D. 100, 120;
Northern Pacific R. R. Co. v. Davis, 19 L. D. 87, 90. The
entire contention of appellee in this regard ignores the
vital point that the company secures no rights to lands
within the indemnity limits until a filing is made. Until
such a filing is made, there is less reason for saying that
the Government cannot appropriate these lands for its own
purposes than there is for saying that settlers cannot do
so, and yet the right of settlers to acquire such lands at
any time prior to the filing of the list is unquestionable.
It would be unreasonable to assert that although the
Government could reserve lands within the place limits
prior to the time when the company's rights attached,
yet it could not reserve lands within the indemnity limits
prior to the time when the company's rights thereto were
initiated. Rights in the place limits attached by the
definite location of the road; in the indemnity limits by
the filing of an application to select. Congress clearly
recognized that there would be losses in the place limits,
and therefore provided for indemnity, but there was no

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Argument for the United States.

256 U. S.

promise that the indemnity would be sufficient or that
all losses in the place limits would be compensated by
the lands in the indemnity limits. Wisconsin Central R.
R. Co. v. Price County, 133 U. S. 496, 512. The lands in
the indemnity belt might, before the company's rights
attached, be otherwise disposed of. They might all prove
to be mineral. The company took the grant subject to
these possibilities, and the same thing is true as to other
appropriation. If the company feels that there is a moral
obligation on the part of the Government to give it indemnity for all losses in the place limits, when the lands
in the indemnity belt are not available because of previous appropriation, its appeal should be made to Congress. Southern Pacific R. R. Co. v. Bell, 183 U. S. 675,
689; Humbird v. Avery, 195 U. S. 480, 508.
Grants of this character are construed strictly against
the grantee, and in the absence of a clearly expressed purpose to preserve the lands within indemnity limits for the
company no such purpose should be presumed.
We do not consider the action of the company in filing
blanket selections without assigning definite losses, or in
applying for all the lands within the indemnity limits, to
have strengthened its position. The requirement for approval of the selection lists by the Secretary of the Interior would be a vain thing if it were to be given to a
list not supported by a definite showing of specific losses.
The Land Department has required assignment of a definite base. Circular of August 4, 1885, 4 L. D. 90; St.
Paul, M. & M. Ry. Co. v. Munz, 17 L. D. 288. As to
applications for unsurveyed lands, those were clearly unacceptable and could not properly be made until the lands
were identified by survey. This has been the rule of the
Land Department. 27 L. D. 122.
The compilation of losses made by the Commissioner
of the General Land Office and here adduced as proving
that lands unappropriated were in the indemnity limits

UNITED STATES v. NORTHERN PAC. RY. CO.
51.

55

Argument for Appeiee.

and insufficient to satisfy losses in the place limits, has
no material bearing on the issues here. Furthermore, it
was not approved by the Secretary of the Interior. See
Hewiutt v. Schultz, 180 U. S. 139, 157, 158.
The failure of the Government to have the lands sooner
surveyed, the inference being that thereby the company
was prejudiced, is not material. Oregon & California R.
R. Co. v. United States, No. 2, 189 U. S. 116, 118; United
States v. Missouri, Kansas & Texas Ry. Co., 141 U. S.
358, 374.
Mr. Charles Donnelly, with whom Mr. Charles W. Bunn
was on the brief, for appellee:
The Act of 1864 and the Resolution of 1870 constituted
a contract between the Government and the railroad
company. Burke v. Southern Pacific R. R. Co., 234 U. S.
669, 679.
The Northern Pacific Railroad Company performed.
its part of this contract by building its railroad. It has
borne, and its successor, the Northern Pacific Railway
Company, is now bearing, and must for all time continue
to bear the burdens, in the way of restricted charges for
government transportation, which, under § 11 of the Act
of 1864, Congress has imposed. The question here is as
to performance not of the railroad company's but of the
Government's part of the contract.
It is equally clear that it was the intention of Congress
that the grantee should get the full quantity of lands
granted, at least so far as it w'as possible to get it within
the limits of the grant. Wisconsin Central R. R. Co. v.
Forsythe, 159 U. S. 46, 60; Hewitt v. Schultz, 180 U. S.
139, 157, 160; Southern Pacific R. R. Co. v. Bell, 183 U. S.
675, 689; Oregon & California R. R. Co. v. United States,
No. 1, 189 U. S. 103, 115; Humbird v. Avery, 195 U. S.
480, 508. All these cases recognize the congressional intent to have been as stated in the Forsythe Case, supra.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Argument for Appellee.

256 U. S.

Indeed, we do not understand counsel for the Government to question this; for while they argue that Congress
did not "intend to guarantee any specific amount of land
to the company," (and this of course is true) they speak
of the "moral obligation" to indemnify the company
for losses within the place limits as one to be discharged
by Congress and not by the courts.
Without pausing to dwell on the reason why there is a
deficiency in the grant to the Northern Pacific, the fact
that there is one has long been known; and the question
is whether this fact in any way affects the general rule
governing the initiation of title to indemnity lands. Undoubtedly the general iale as to such lands is that until
they are selected by the grantee the Government has
complete control over them; but this rule rests upon an
assumption that where one indemnity section is disposed

of, another is available. The rule does not obtain where
this assumption is shown to be unwarranted. St. Paul &
Pacific R. R. Co. v. Northern Pacific R. R. Co., 139 U. S.
1; United States v. Southern Pacific R. R. Co., 146 U. S.
615, 616; Southern Pacific R. R. Co. v. Bell, 183 U. S.
675, 682; Southern Pacific R. R. Co. v. Groeck, 87 Fed.
Rep. 970, 973.
That the fact of a recognized deficiency in the entire

grant makes inapplicable the general rule that selection
is necessary to the initiation of any rights in indemnity
lands, is made strikingly plain by the decisions in Hewitt
v. Schultz, supra, and Oregon & California R. R. Co. v.
United States, No. 1, supra.
The question here is not whether in the face of the deficiency the settler may acquire rights superior to ours,
for we concede that he may. It was a part of our contract that, until selected, lands within the indemnity belt
should be open to settlement under the homestead and
preemption laws. Te question is whether the Govern-

nient may lawfully appropriate to its own uses lands

UNITED STATES v. NORTHERN PAC. RY. CO. 57
51.

Argument for Appellee.

which are indispensable even to a partial fulfillment of
its contract.
The answer of counsel for the Government to all this is
direct and simple. They take their stand upon the broad
general rule that until selection a railroad grantee acquires no title to indemnity lands. Undoubtedly this
court has said this, or something like this, many times.
But on examining the cases it will be found that wherever this is said, it is said szb modo and with reference to
the special facts in hand. It has never been said or suggested that as to such lands the grant meant nothing, or
that even though they were confessedly needed to supply
losses within place limits, the Government, in advance of
selection, was as free to deal with them as if the grant had
not been made. Weyerhaeuser v. Hoyt, 219 U. S. 380,
387; Daniels v. Wagner, 205 Fed. lRep. 235, 237, reversed
upon other grounds, 237 U. S. 547.
We are not contending for a principle which would
deprive settlers of the right they now enjoy of acquiring
title to odd-numbered sections within the indemnity belts;
nor do we rest our case in any sense upon the fact that
the Government has flagrantly failed to perform its obligation to survey the lands. We say that if it will not
survey the lands as it agreed to do, if it will not allow us
to select them while unsurveyed, if as a consequence we
must suffer the losses occasioned by settlers' entries, we
are entitled at least to protection against additional losses
occasioned by its own acts. Its appropriation of these
lands to its own purposes in the face of its admission that
they are necessary to satisfy even partially the grant
which it made for a consideration which we have rendered would be a plain violation of its contract. It would
be a moral as well as a lega wrong; and surely it is not
true that those who contract with the Government must
expect to have their contracts dealt with so.
Bearing in mind that the withdrawal order was made

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

under the authority of § 24 of the Act of March 3, 1891,
26 Stat, 4095, authorizing the President to set apart
"public lands" as forest reserves, we submit that one of
two things must be true: Either the lands in question, in
view of the admitted facts in this case, were not "public
lands" within the meaning of that act, and therefore the
withdrawal order was unauthorized and inoperative; or,
they are "public lands," and then the act authorizing
their withdrawal was a direct invasion of the constitutional rights which the railway company had in them;
and such legislation cannot stand. Sinking-Fund Cases,
99 U. S. 700, 718.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER delivered the opinion of
the court.
This is a suit by the United States to cancel a patent
issued to the railway company for 5,681.76 acres of land
in Montana, the asserted ground for such relief being that
the land officers issued the patent through inadvertence
and mistake. The company prevailed in the District
Court and in the Circuit Court of Appeals, 264 Fed. Rep.
898, and the United States brought the case here.
The lands in question are within the indemnity limits
of the land grant made to the Northern Pacific Railroad
Company by the Act of July 2, 1864, c. 217, 13 Stat. 365,
as modified and supplemented by the joint resolution of
May 31, 1870, 16 Stat. 378, and were selected and patented as indemnity for lands lost within the place limits.
The rights and obligations of the original railroad company arising out of the grant have long since passed to
the present railway company and there is no need here
for distinguishing one company from the other.
The grant was made for the declared purpose of "aiding in the construction" of a proposed line of railroad
from Lake Superior to Puget Sound and Portland, Oregon,

UNITED STATES v. NORTHERN PAC. RY. CO. 59
51.

Opinion of the Court.

and "to secure the safe and speedy transportation of the
mails, troops, munitions of war, and public stores" over
such line. It was expressed in present terms-" there be,
and hereby is, granted "-and was. of "every alternate
section of public land, not mineral, designated by odd
numbers" within prescribed place limits on each side of
the line, excepting such sections or parts of sections as
should be found to have been otherwise disposed of, appropriated or claimed, or occupied by homestead settlers,
or pre inpted, prior to the definite location of the line.
Nelson v. Northern Pacific Ry. Co., 188 U. S. 108. As
indemnity for any lands so excepted, as also for any excluded as mineral, other lands were to be "selected by
said company," under the direction of the Secretary of
the Interior, from unoccupied, unappropriated, nonmineral lands in odd-numbered sections within prescribed
indemnity limits. The line of the road was to be definitely
located by filing a map or maps thereof in the General
Land Office; and the road when constructed was to be
"subject to the use of the United States, for postal, military, naval, and all other government service, and also
subject to such regulations as congress may impose restricting the charges for such government transportation." As each consecutive twenty-five miles of road was
constructed and made ready for the service contemplated,
the same was to be examined by commissioners selected
by the President, and, if they reported that the same was
completed in all respects as required, patents were to be
issued to the company for the lands opposite to and coterminous with the completed section. The President
was to cause the lands along "the entire line" to be surveyed for forty miles in width on both sides "after the
general route shall be fixed, a.,d as fast as may be required
by the construction of said rail road"; the granted sections within the place limits were to be withheld from sale,
entry and preemption, except as against preEmption and

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.

Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

homestead occupants whose settlement preceded the definite location of the line; all lands within the indemnity
limits were to be and remain subject to the operation of
the preemption and homestead laws, save as the oddnumbered sections should be taken out of the operation
of those laws by indemnity selections made to supply
losses within the place limits (Hewitt v. Schultz, 180 U. S.
139, 147-149, 155-156; Weyerhaeuser v. Hoyt, 219 U. S.
380, 387-388); and the price of the even-numbered sections retained by the United States in the place limits
was to be increased to double the usual minimum. If
the company accepted the terms on which the grant was
made, it was required to signify its acceptance in writing
under its corporate seal within two years.
The company duly accepted the terms of the grant,
filed appropriate maps of the general route, afterwards
definitely located the line in the mode prescribed, and
constructed and completed the road from Ashland, Wisconsin, on Lake Superior, to Tacoma, Washington, on
Puget Sound, and thence to Portland, Oregon, its full
length being more than 2,000 miles. The definite location
was completed in 1884 and the construction in 1887. Tl!road as completed was examined and favorably reported
by the commissioners and accepted by the President.
Reports of Commissioner of Railroads-for 1885, p. 22;
1886, p. 36; 1887, p. 24; 1888, p. 24; Doherty v. Northern
Pacific Ry. Co., 177 U. S. 421; United States v. Northern
Pacific R. R. Co., 95 Fed. Rep. 864; s. c. 177 U. S. 435;
United States v. Northern Pacific R. R. Co., 193 U. S. 1.
The losses to the grant in the place limits through other
disposals, homestead settlements and the like prior to the
definite location of the line, and through the exclusion of
lands found to be mineral, amounted to several million
acres. To supply these losses it was necessary to resort to
the indemnity limits, as was contemplated and provided
in the granting act and resolution. In the asserted exer-

UNITED STATES v. NORTHERN PAC. RY. CO. 61
51.

Opinion of the Court.

oise of this right the company selected the lands in question. The particular losses on account of which the selection was made were such as to support it, the selection
was made in conformity with the directions given by the
Secretary of the Interior, and the lands selected were subject to selection unless rendered otherwise by a temporary
executive withdrawal made about a year before. The
local land officers accepted and approved the selection list
and in transmitting it to the General Land Office called
attention to the withdrawal. But when the Commissioner
and the Secretary approved the selection and caused the
patent to issue they overlooked the withdrawal and so
did not consider or pass on its bearing on the company's
right to select the lands. Five years later the matter was
called to their attention and they caused this suit to be
brought.
The lands in question were not surveyed in the field
until near 1905 and the plat of survey was not filed in the
local land office until April 5, 1905. This indemnity selection was made later in the same day. On several o~zasions prior to 1904 the company had endeavored to select
lands in the indemnity limits while they were as yet unsurveyed, or before the plat of the survey was filed in the
local land office; but the Secretary of the Interior had
refused to consider such selections and had directed that
none be received until after the land was surveyed and
the plat filed. Thus this selection was made as soon as
was admissible under the Secretary's directions. The temporary executive withdrawal of the lands was made January 29, 1904, before they were surveyed, and was intended to prevent the acquisition of any claim to them
pending an inquiry into the desirability of adding them,
along with other lands, to an existing forest reserve. On
March 7, 1906, they were added to the reserve by an executive proclamation.
In its defense to the suit the company takes the posi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

tion that the temporary withdrawai did not affect its
right to select the lands and therefore that the United
States was not prejudiced by the fact that the Commissioner and the Secretary overlooked the withdrawal when
the selection was approved and the patent issued. In
support of this position the company points to the stipulation on which the case was heard in the District Court
wherein,-following a reference to the Act of March 3,
1887, c. 376, 24 Stat. 556, directing the Secretary "to
immediately adjust" this and other railroad land grants,
and to a special report of the Commissioner, made in
1906, purporting to show that the adjustment of this
grant pursuant to that act had progressed to a point
where it was disclosed there was a net deficiency in the
grant of 4,092,472.99 acres,-it is said:
"The plaintiff admits that when the withdrawal order
of January 29, 1904, was issued, the lands patented to
the defendant or its predecessor in interest within the
primary and all indemnity limits, plus all other lands
within the primary or place limits, not patented, but
which passed under the grant, and also all odd-numbered
sections in all indemnity limits which the defendant was
entitled to select under the regulations of the land department did not equal the sum total of all the odd-numbered
sections lying within the primary or place limits of the
grant, and this condition still obtains; but the plaintiff
does not admit that the correct measure of the grant is
the aggregate area of all odd-numbered sections within
the primary or place limits, or that any definite quantity
of land was granted and guaranteed to the defendant by
any of the acts of Congress making grants of land to the
defendant or its predecessor or predecessors in interest."
And in further support of its position the company contends that where, through preemption and homestead
entries or other disposals, the available lands in the indemnity limits have been so far diminished that those

UNITED STATES v. NORTHERN PAC. RY. CO. 63
51.

Opinion of the Court.

remaining are all needed to supply losses in the place
limits the Government is not at liberty to reserve the
remaining lands, or any of them, for its own uses and
thereby to cut off the company's right to claim them as
indemnity, because, as against the Government, they
thenceforth are appropriated to the fulfilment of its obligation under the grant, and because the company has a
vested right in the fulfilment of that obligation which all
departments of the Government are bound to respect.
On the other hand, counsel for the Government insist (a)
that no right to lands in the indemnity limits attaches,
either generally or specifically, until they are selected by
the company, (b) that up to that time the Government is
free to reserve them for its own purposes and thereby to
cut off the right of selection, and (c) that this is so even
where the losses in the place limits exceed the available
lands in the indemnity limits, and although the company's
purpose to claim the latter be asserted at the earliest opportunity. The question thus presented has an important
bearing on the further administration and adjustment of
this grant, and perhaps of others, and counsel on both
sides have dealt with it accordingly. In its present form
the question is new, but the principles which must control its solution are well settled.
The purpose of the granting act and resolution was to
bring about the construction and operation of a line of
railroad extending from Lake Superior to Puget Sound
and Portland through what then consisted of great
stretches of homeless prairies, trackless forests and unexplored mountains, and thus to facilitate the development of that region, promote commerce, and establish a
convenient highway for the transportation of mails, troops,
munitions and public stores to and from the Pacific coast,
with all the resultant advantages to the Government and
the public. To that end the act and resolution embodied
a proposal to the company to the effect that if it would

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

undertake and perform that vast work it should receive
in return the lands comprehended in the grant. The
company accepted the proposal and at enormous cost constructed the road and put the same in operation; and the
road was accepted by the President. Thus the proposal
was converted into a contract, as to which the company
by performing its part became entitled to performance
by the Government. Burke v. Southern Pacific R. R. Co.,
234 U. S. 669, 679-680. The provision relating to indemnity lands was as much a part of the grant and contract as the one relating to land in place, Payne v. Central
Pacific Ry. Co., 255 U. S. 228; and it is apparent from
the granting act and resolution that "it was the purpose
of Congress in making the grant to confer a substantial
right to land within the indemnity limits in lieu of lands
lost within the place limits." Weyerhaeuser v. Hoyt, 219
U. S.380, 387. Such rights are within the protection of
the due process of law clause of the Constitution. SinkingFund Cases, 99 U. S.700, 718.
When the grant was made by the act and resolution
it was thought that the indemnity limits as therein defined contained lands largely in excess of what would be
required to supply losses within the place limits, and hence
the provision in § 6 under which, as construed by the land
officers and this court, all lands in the indemnity limits
were to be and remain subject to the operation of the
pre&mption and homestead laws, save as the odd-numbered sections should be taken out of their operation by
indenmity selections. Under fhat provision, however, the
lands available for indemnity were diminished much more
rapidly than was expected; but as the provision was one
of the terms of the grant the company must submit to
whatever of di 6advantage results from it. This the company frankly recognizes, for in its brief it says: "It was
a part bf our contract that, until selected, lands witlun
the indemnity belt should be open to settlement under

UNITED STATES v. NORTHERN PAC. RY. CO. 65
51.

Opinion of the Court.

the homestead and preemption laws"; and also, "The
question here is not whether in the face of the deficiency
the settler [before selection] may acquire rights superior
to ours, for we concede that he may." But that provision
gives no warrant for thinking that, after the company
has earned the right to receive the lands comprehended
in the grant, the Government is free to reserve or appropriate to its own uses lands in the indemnity limits which
are required to supply losses in the place limits. We say
"required" because we perceive no reason to doubt that
lands in the indemnity limits may be so reserved or appropriated where what remains is sufficient to satisfy all
the losses.
While it often has been said that under such a grant no
right attaches to. any specific land within the indemnity
limits until it is selected, an examination of the cases will
sho* that this general rule never has been applied as
between the Government and the grantee where the lands
available for indemnity were not sufficient for the purpose. Its only application has been where either the
rights of settlers were involved, or the lands available for
indemnity exceeded the losses, thereby making it essential that there be a selection and identification of the
particular lands sought to be taken. This distinction is
illustrated in St. Paul & Pacific R. R. Co. v. Northern
Pacific R. R. Co., 139 U. S. 1. The question there presented was whether there was any need for a selection
where no right of a settler was involved and the lands
available for indemnity were not sufficient to sutpply the
losses. By reason of this insufficiency it was ruled that
the lands in the indemnity limits necessarily were appropriated to satisfy the losses and that no selection was required. The court said, p. 19: "As to the objection that
no evidence was produced of any selection by the Secretary of the Interior from the indemnity lands to make
up for the deficiencies found in the lands within the place

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.

Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

limits, it is sufficient to observe that all the lands within
the indemnity limits only made up in part for these deficiencies. There was, therefore, no occasion for the exercise of the judgment of the Secretary in selecting from
them, for they were all appropriated." That ruling related to the right to indemnity lands under this grant,
and so is particularly in point; but it is well to observe
that what was said about an existing deficiency related,
as appears on pages 8 and 9 of the opinion, to the portion
of the grant in Minnesota and not to other portions. This
exception to the general rule that a selection is essential
has been recognized by this court in other cases. United
States v. Missouri, Kansas & Texas Ry. Co., 141 U. S.
358, 376; United States v. Colton Marble & Lime Co., 146
U. S. 615, 616; Southern Pacific R. R. Co. v. Bell, 183 U. S.
675, 682.
One of the regulations of the Land Department requires
that indemnity selections be accompanied by a specification-tract for tract-of the losses on account of which
they are made. But that department holds that this regulation does not apply where the losses exceed the lands
which may be taken as indemnity. Thus in Hastings and
Dakota Ry. Co., 19 L. D. 30, it was said by Secretary
Smith: "The object in establishing the rule was to prevent the possibility of one basis of loss being Used for
more than one selection. As this grant is known to be
deficient over eight hundred thousand acres . . . the
danger of a duplication of the losses does not exist; and
the reason of the rule ceasing, the rule itself does not
operate." And a similar ruling is found in Chicago, Rock
Island & Pacific R. R. Co. v. Wagner, 25 L. D. 458, 460,
and other cases.
Giving effect to all that bears on the subject, we are of
opinion that after the company earned the right to receive
what was intended by the grant it was not admissible for
the Government to reserve or appropriate to its own uses

UNITED STATES v. NORTHERN PAC. RY. CO. 67
51.

Opinion of

the Court.

lands in the indemnity limits required to supply losses in
the place limits. Of course, if it could take part of the
lands required for that purpose, it could take all and
thereby wholly defeat the provision for indemnity. But
it cannot do either. The "substantial right" conferred
by that provision (Weyerhaeuser v. Hoyt, supra), cannot
be thus cut down or extinguished. Sinking-Fund Cases,
supra.
A more difficult question-to which only slight attention is given in the briefs-is whether it sufficiently appears from this record that the grant was deficient at the
time of the temporary withdrawal, that is, that the lands
available as indemnity were not then sufficient to supply
the losses. The question is one the determination of
which rests primarily with the Land Department. The
stipulation on which the case was heard does not show
that the Department has determined the question, nor
that it has refused to do so, but only that the question
was not considered when this patent was issued, the withdrawal being then inadvertently overlooked. In these
circumstances, to entitle either party to. have the question
determined in this suit the facts shown should make
its right solution quite plain, for the decision might corclude both parties for all time,-as respects other lands
as well as those in suit. Southern Pacific R. R. Co. v.
United States, 168 U. S. 1, 48. Of course, the company is
entitled to have the question considered and decided
somewhere, and, if the deficiency be established, is entitled to have the selection of these lands sustained. A
third of a century already has elapsed since the company
earned the right to receive what was intended by the
grant.
Two matters stated in the stipulation are relied upon
as showing a deficiency. One is that in 1906 the Commissioner reported to the Secretary that the adjustment
of the grant had progressed to a point where it was dis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

closed that there was a net deficiency of 4,092,472.99
acres. By the Act of March 3, 1887, supra, the supervision of the adjustment was specially devolved on the
Secretary, and yet the stipulation does not show that he
approved the Commissioner's report or in any way recognized it as correct. We think the report, in the absence
of any confirmatory action by the Secretary, cannot be
taken as sufficiently establishing that a deficiency existed.
The other statement is that at the time of the temporary
withdrawal all the lands theretofore received by the company plus all that it was possible for it to receive thereafter, whether as place lands or indemnity lands, did not
equal "the sum total of all the odd-numbered sections
lying within the primary or place limits," and that condition still obtains. But the statement also says that the
Government "does not admit that the correct measure
of the grant is the aggregate area of all odd-numbered
sections within the primary or place limits." What was
meant by this qualification is not otherwise disclosed; nor
is it explained in the briefs. The aggregate of the oddnumbered sections within the place limits is the correct
measure of the grant, unless (a) part of the grant included
only a moiety of those sections, or (b) the route of this
road and that of another with a prior land grant were
found to be upon the same general line, in which event a
stated deduction was to be made from the amount of land
granted to this company. There would be no right to
indemnity as respects the moiety not included, nor a
1Southern Pacific R. R. Co. v. United Staes, 183 U. S. 519, 525;

Sioux City &St. Paul R. R. Co. v. United States, 159 U. S. 349,364-365.
And see United States v. Northern Pacific R. R. Co., 193 U. S. 1.

s Section 3 of the granting act contains the following: "Proided,
That if said route shall be found upon the line of any other railroad
route to aid in the construction of which lands have been heretofore
granted by the United States, as far as the routes are upon the same
general line, the amount of land heretofore granted shall be deducted
from the amount granted by this act."

UNITED STATES v. NORTHERN PAC. RY. CO. 69
51.

Opinion of the Court.

respects the lands required to be deducted. Either of
those conditions, if existing, would affect the measure of
.the grant and would have to be considered in determining
whether there was a deficiency. The stipulation does not
show the presence or the absence of either condition, and
the matter is not one of which courts take judicial notice.
Therefore the actual situation, whatever it may havebeen, should have been shown. As this was not done,
neither party is entitled to have the question whether
there was a deficiency determined upon the present record.
Turning to the published decisions of the Land Department, we find that in Hessey v. Northern Pacific Ry. Co.,
43 L. D. 302, the Secretary distinctly declared 'that the
grant was so far deficient that many losses within the
place limits must remain unsatisfied, and therefore that
compliance with a provision that indemnity selections be
made from lands nearest the line of the road was no longer
required. But as that finding apparently related to the
situation existing December 9, 1909, it cannot be taken
as showing that there was a deficiency almost six years
before, when the temporary withdrawal now in question
was made. The situation may have changed materially
in the meantime, for doubtless large numbers of homestead entries were being made within the indemnity limits
every year.
We conclude that the decrees below must be reversed
and the suit remanded to the District Couit with directions (a) to accord the parties a reasonable opportunity,
on a further hearing, to supplement and perfect the showing made in the present record, if either or both are so
disposed, (b) if the parties avail themselves of that opportunity, th proceed to an adjudication of the suit upon
the record as thus supplemented, and (c) if the parties do
not avail themselves of that opportunity, to enter a decree
canceling the patent without prejudice to the right of the
company to have the question of the asserted deficiency

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Syllabus.

256 U. S.

in the grant determined by the Land Department and to
have the present selection sustained and given full effect,
if the grant was deficient when the temporary withdrawal was made.
Decree reversed.
STATE OF OKLAHOMA v. STATE OF TEXAS,
UNITED STATES, INTERVENER.
IN EQUITY.
No. 23, Original. Argued December 14, 15, 1920.-Decided April 11, 1921.
Oklahoma brought this suit against Texas to establish the boundary
between the two States where it follows the course of the Red River
from the 100th degree of west longitude to the easterly boundary
of Oklahoma, contending that, as fixed by the Treaty of February 22,
1819 (8 Stat. 252), the line followed the south bank of that river and
that this was finally and conclusively adjudicated in the case of
United States v. Texas, 162 U. S. 1, wherein the final decree declared,
"that the territory east of the 100th meridian of longitude, west
and south of the river now known as the North Fork of Red River,
and north of a line following westward, as prescribed by the treaty
of 1819 between the United States and Spain, the course, and along
the south bank, both of Red River and of the river now known as the
Prairie Dog Town Fork or South Fork of Red River until such line
meets the 100th meridian of longitude-which territory is sometimes
called Greer County--constitutes no part of the territory properly
included within or rightfully belonging to Texas at the time of the
admission of that State into the Union, and is not within the limits
nor under the jurisdiction of that State, but is subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of the United States of America;" the United
States, intervening to protect proprietary interests claimed for itself
and for Indians in the bed of the river, supported these contentions
of Oklahoma; while Texas contended that the boundary was fixed
by the treaty at the middle of the main channel of the river, and
denied that its precise location, whether there or on the south bank.
was determined by the former proceeding, asserting that the issues
there respecting the river were confined to the question which of

