MERCHANTS' NATL. BANK v. RICHMOND. 635
632.

Syllabus.

imposed in the exertion of the taxing power of the United
States. New York Trust Co. v. Eisner, ante, 345. It is
made a charge on the estate and is to be paid out of it by
the administrator or executor substantially as other taxes
and charges are paid. It becomes due not at the time
of the decedent's death, as suggested by counsel for the
Government, but one year thereafter, as the statute
plainly provides. It does not segregate any part of the
estate from the rest and keep it from passing to the administrator or executor for purposes of administration, as
counsel contend, but is made a general charge on the
gross estate and is to be paid in money out of any available funds or, if there be none, by converting other property into money for the purpose.
Here the estate tax not only "accrued," which means
became due, during the taxable year of 1918, but it was
paid before the income for that year was returned or
required to be returned. When the return was made the
executors claimed a deduction by reason of that tax.
We hold that under the terms of the Act of 1918 the
deduction should have been allowed.

Judgment affirmed.

MERCHANTS' NATIONAL BANK OF RICHMOND,
VIRGINIA, v. CITY OF RICHMOND.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF APPEAlS OF THE STATE
OF VIRGINIA.
No. 240. Argued March 21, 1921.-Decided June 6, 1921.

1. A judgment of a state supreme court sustaining a state statute and
a city ordinance imposing taxes, over the objection that as construed
and applied they are repugnant to a law of the United States, is re-

viewable here by writ of error. P. 637.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.
2. Where the stat eourt.cmi

256 U. S.

to find the facts relevant to a question

of federal law, it is the duty of this court to ezmine the evidence
on the subjec.
P. 638.
& In the provison of Rev. Stats., 5219, respecting state tasxtn
of ds of 'na
l bank , that it "shall not be it a grater rate
than is mineed upon other moneyed capital in the hands of indivibda
eitizens of ach Stat," the words "moneyed capital in the hands of
indv d cMzems " include bonds, notes and other evidences of
n in the hands of individuals, which are shown to ome
materially into coinpetition. with the natimsn1 banks in the loan marhat. P. 638.
121 V'zni, -, reversed; applicatim for writ of ertiorari denied.

Tim case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Lgh R. Page,with whom Mr. R. Wwzen Wal was
on the briefs, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. H. R. PoOlwd and Mr. Gewr Wayne Anderson, for
defendant in error, submitted.
Mu. Juaric PITmu delivered the opinion of the court.

The court of last resort of Virginia sustained a tax
assessed by the City of Richmond in the year 1915, in
form against plaintiff in error, a national banking association, in substance and effect against its shareholders,

overruling a contention based upon the Constitution and
laws of the United States. To review its judgment a
writ of error has been sued out and allowed, and application has been made also for the allowance of a writ of

certorari.

The proceeding originated in the Hustings

Court of the City of Richmond with a petition filed by

the Bank against the City to correct the assesment as
erroneous. The first hearing resulted in an order granting
the relief prayed for, upon grounds not now material;

but, upon review by the Supreme Court of Appeals, this
was reversed (124 Virginia, 522), and the case remanded

MERCHANTS' NATL. BANK v. RICHMOND. 63T
635.

Opinion of the Court

for further proceedings in conformity with the views of
that court; in consequence of which, correction of the
alleged erroneous assessment was refused by the trial
court, and the proceeding dismissed. An application
for a writ of error to review this judgment was denied
by the Supreme Court of Appeals, with the effect of affirming the judgment of the Hustings Court.
The tax was imposed pursuant to an ordinance approved
April 9; 1915, passed under the powers conferred upon the
City by its charter and an act of the General Assembly
approved March 15, 1915 (Virginia Acts 1915, c. 85, p.
119). The opinion of the court of last resort shows that
plaintiff in error drew in question the validity of the
ordinance and statute, as construed and applied, upon
the ground of their alleged repugnance to § 5219, Rev.
Stats., and that the court sustained their validity notwithstanding. Under § 237, Jud. Code, as amended by
Act of September 6, 1916, c. 448, 39 Stat. 726, a writ of
error is the appropriate process for reviewing the final
judgment in this court, and the petition for allowance
of a writ of certiorari will be denied.
It will not be necessary to recite the provisions of the
statute and ordinance, beyond saying that, taken in
connection with another act of the General Assembly,
approved March 17, 1915 (Virginia Acts 1915, c. 117, p.
160), they authorized the imposition for the year 1915
upon bank stocks, state and national, of a tax for state
purposes at the rate of 35 cents-and a tax for city purposes
at the rate of $1.40-a total of $1.75-upon the $100 of
valuation, while upon intangible personal property in
general, including bonds, notes, and other evidences of
indebtedness, the state rate was 65 cents and the city
rate 30 cents, an aggregate of 95 cents, upon each $100
of valuation.
The Bank's petition alleged, and the evidence showed
without dispute, that in the City of Richmond, in 1915,

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Ophlion of the CGUrt

256 U. S.

city and state taxes at the rates first mentioned were imposed upon national bank stocks (including that of plaintiff in error) to the aggregate value of more than $8,000,000
and stocks of state banks and trust companies to the value
of $6,000,000 and upwards, while taxes at the lower aggregate rate of 95 cents per $100--city tax 30 cents, state
tax 65 centw-were imposed for the same year upon bonds,
motes, and' other evidences of indebtedness aggregating
$6, 50,000. It is to be inferred that a substantial part
of this aggregate was in the hands of individual taxpayers;
the precise amount does not appear. It also was shown
by evidenee without dispute thdt moneyed capital in the
hands of individuals invested in bonds, hotes, and other
evidences of indebtedness comes into competition with
the naSonal banks in the loan market.

Neither of the state courts passed upon this evidence
or made findings of fact thereon; doubtless because,
nuder their respective views of the applicable law, the
facts referred to were immaterial. But this omission does
not relieve us of the duty of examining the evidence for
the purpose of determining what facts reasonably might
be, and premmumably would be, found therefrom by the
state court, if plaintiff in error's contention upon the
question of federal law should be sustained, and the facts
thereby shown to be material. Carlson v. Curt ss, 234

U. S. 103, 106.
The Supreme Court of Appeals entertained the view
that the purpose of § 5219, Rev. Stats., was confined to
the prevention of discrimination by the States. in favor
of state banking associations as against national banking
associations, and that since none such is shown here there
was no repugnance to the federal statute. This, however,
is too narrow aview of § 5219. It traces its origin to § 41
of the Act of June 3, 1864, c. 106, 13 Stat. 99, 111-112, in
which, besides the restriction that state taxation of the
shares of national banking associations should not be at a

MERCHANTS' NATL. BANK v. RICHMOND.
635.

639

Opinion of the Court.

greater rate than that assessed upon other moneyed
capital in the hands of individual citizens of such State,
there was an express proviso that the tax should not exceed the rate imposed upon the shares of state banks.
But this was modified by Act of February 10, 1868, c. 7, 15
Stat. 34, in a manner which, as was pointed out in Boyer v.
Boyer, 113 U. S. 689, 691-692, precluded the possibility
of an interpretation permitting the States, while imposing
the same taxation upon national bank shares as upon
shares in state banks, to discriminate against national
bank shares in favor of moneyed capital not invested in
state bank stock. "At any rate," said the court, "the
acts of Congress do not now permit any such discrimination." In the amended form the provision was carried
into the Revised Statutes as § 5219, which prescribes that
state taxation of shares in the national banks "shall not
be at a greater rate than is assessed upon other moneyed
capital in-the hands of individual citizens of such State."
By repeated decisions of this court, dealing with the
restriction here imposed, it has become established that,
while the words "moneyed capital in the hands of individual citizens " do not include shares of stock in corporations that do not enter into competition with the national banks, they do include something besides shares
in banking corporations and others that enter into direct
competition with those banks. They include not only
moneys invested in private banking, properly so called,
but investments of individuals in securities that represent
money at interest and other evidences of indebthdness
such as normally enter into the business of banking. In
Evansvie Bank v. Britton, 105 U. S. 322, 324, the coet
said: "The act of Congress does not make the tax on
personal property the measure of the tax on bank shares
in the State, but the tax on moneyed capital in the hands
of the individual citizens. Credits, money loaned at
interest, and demands against persons or corporations

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

are more purely representative of moneyed capital than
personal property, so far as they can be said to differ.
Undoubtedly there may be much personal property
exempt from taxation without giving bank shares a right
to simil exemption, because personal property is not
necessarily moneyed capital. But the rights, credits, demands, and money at interest mentioned in the Indiana
statute,from which bona fide debts may be deducted, all mean
moneyed capital invested in that way. . . . We are
of opinion that the taxation of bank shares by the Indiana
statute, without permitting the shareholder to deduct from
their assessed value the amount of his bona Jld indebtedness, as in the case of other investments of moneyed capital, is a discrimination forbidden by the act of Congress."
And in Mercantile Bank v. New York, 121 U. S. 138, the
court, speaking by Mr. Justice Matthews, after reviewing
previous decisions and pointing out (p. 154) the policy
and purpose of the act as the key to its proper interpretation, proceeded to declare (p. 157): "The terms of
the act of Congress, therefore, include shares of stock or
other interests owned by individuals in all enterprises in
which the capital employed in carrying on its business is
money, where the object of the business is the making
of profit by its use as money. The moneyed capital thus
employed is invested for that purpose in securities by way
of loan, discount, or otherwise, which are from time to
time, according to the rules of the business, reduced again
to money and reinvested. It includes money in the hands
of individuals employed in a similar way, inwsted in loans,
or in secritiesfor the payment of money, either as an investment of a permanent character,or temporarily with a view
to sale or repayment and reintetment. In this way the

moneyed capital in the hands of individuals is distinguished from what is known generally as personal property, "-proceeding then to quote the passage we have
cited from EvansmIle Bank v. Britton, supra.

MERCHANTS' NATL. BANK v. RICHMOND. 641
635.

Dissent.

In Amoskeag Savings Bank v. Purdy, 231 U. S. 373, 390391, the above-mentioned declaration of the court in
Mercantile Bank v. Vew York, 121 U. S. 138, 157, including the citation from Evansville Bank v. Britton, was
repeated, and it was pointed out that the rule of construction thus laid down had since been consistently
adhered to. No decision of this court to which our
attention is called has qualified that rule, or construed
§ 5219 as leaving out of consideration the rate of state
taxation imposed upon moneyed capital in the hands of
individual citizens invested in loans or securities for the
payment of money, either for permanent or temporary
purposes, where such moneyed capital comes into competition with that of the national banks. Thus, in Bank of
Commerce v. Seattle. 166 U. S. 463, 464, the precise ground
of decision was the want of a showing that "the moneyed
capital left unassessed was, as to any material portion
thereof, moneyed capital coming into competition with
that of national banks." To the same effect First National Bank of Wellington v. Chapman, 173 U. S. 205, 219.
In the present case; there is a clear showing of such competition, relatively material in amount, and it follows
that, upon the undisputed facts, the ordinance and statute
under which the stock of plaintiff in error was assessed,
as construed and applied, exceeded the limitation prescribed by § 5219, Rev. Stats., and hence that the tax is
invalid.
Application for writ of certiorari denied.
Judgment reversed, and the cause remanded for further
proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.

MR. JUSTICE BRA&NDEIs dissents.

