COOK v. MARSIHALL COUNTY

261

Statement of the Case.

196 U. S.

I do not perceive that they have any bearing upon what I have
said or upon the case at bar.
I am authorized to say that the CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JUSand MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM concur in this dissent.

TICE BREWER

COOK v. MARSHALL COUNTY, IOWA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF IOWA.
No. 98. Argued December 9, 12, 190N.-Decided Jauuary 16, 1905.

The term original package is not defined by statute and while it may be
impossible to judicially determine its size or shape, under the principle
upon which its exemption while an article of interstate commerce is
founded, the term does not include packages which cannot be commercially transported from one State to another.
While a perfectly lawful act may not be impugned by the fact that
the person doing it was impelled thereto by a bad motive, where the
lawfulness or unlawfulness of the act is made an issue, the intent of
the actor may be material in characterizing the transaction, and where
a party, in transporting goods from one State to another, selects an unusual method for the express purpose of evading or defying the police
laws of the latter State the commerce clause of the Federal Constitution
cannot be invoked as a cover for fraudulent dealing.
This court adheres to its decision in Austin v. Tennessee, 179 U. S. 343, that
small pasteboard boxes each containing ten cigarettes, and sealed and
stamped with the revenue stamp, whether shipped in a basket or loosely,
not boxed, baled or attgehed together, and not separately or otherwise
addressed but for which the express company has given a receipt and
agreement to deliver them to a person named therein in another State,
are not original packages and are not protected under the commerce
clause of the Federal Constitution from regulation by the police power
of the State.
A classification in a state taxation statute in which a distinction is made
between retail and wholesale dealers is not unreasonable and ยง 5007,
Iowa Code, imposing a tax on cigarette dealers is not invalid'as denying
equal protection of the laws to retail dealers, because it does not apply to
jobbers and wholesalers doing an interstate -business with customers
outside of the State.

THIS was a petition by the owner and the tenant of a certain

OCTO3ER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

196 U. S.

room in the city of TMarshalltown, Iowa, addressed to the board
of supervisors, for the remission of a tax of $300, imposed upon
the business of selling cigarettes, which business was carried
on by Charles P Cook, one of the plaintiffs in error. The
petition being denied, an appeal was taken to the District
Court, where a demurrer was interposed, which was sustained
by that court, and an appeal taken to the Supreme Court,
where the judgment of the District Court was affirmed. 119
Iowa, 384.
Mr Junmus Parker, with whom Mr W W Fuller and Mr
Frank S. Dunshee were on the brief, for plaintiffs in errorThere is a distinguishing difference between Austin v Tennessee, 179 U S. 343, and this case in that in the Austin case
many parcels were aggregated, and thrown into an open basket
and so carried. Thus associated in their carriage they could
not be segregated after arrival so to make each an original
package. Immunity is given to original packages alike to the
retailer and wholesaler. Nor will immunity given to a large
package be denied to a small one on account of its size. Cigarette packages vary as to size. The ordinary original package
of cigarettes is frequently of the size of the packages in this
case. The fact that the manufacturer hoped to be able to
introduce cigarettes in these packages into Iowa without violating the state statute does not deprive him of the protection
of the interstate commerce provisions- of the Federal Constitution.
Under Austin v Tennessee, supra, Brown v Maryland, 12
Wheat. 419, Bowman v Railroad Co., 125 U S. 465, Leisj v
Hardin, 135 U S. 100; Vance v Vandercook, 170 U. S. 438,
Rhodes v Iowa, 170 U S. 412, and Schollenberger v Pennsylvania, 171 U S. 1, cigarettes that are manufactured without
the State of Iowa are, from the time they are put in transit
until the importer in Iowa breaks the original package, or after
he has himself disposed of such original package, under the
exclusive regulation of Congress. This power of regulation

COOK v. MARSHALL COUNTY
196 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

includes the power to absolutely prohibit this interstate traffic
in them, Lottery Case, 188 U S. 321. While this status continues and this authority of Congress may be exercised, the
legislature of Iowa is as utterly powerless to regulate such
transit and first disposition-if made before breaking of original package-as it would be powerless to regulate affairs in
Illinois or Nebraska, or any other adjacent or non-adjacent
State.
Congress has not legislated in regard to trade in cigarettes
and this silence means that the trade so far as it is interstate
and under congressional control shall be free and unrestrained.
Robbins v Shelby Taxvtng Dstrct, 120 U S. 489, 493.
These cigarettes were in packages prescribed by the internal revenue law and were original packages entitled to
immunity from state regulation. Washington v Coovert, unreported, but see 164 U S. 702, In re Minor,69 Fed. Rep. 233,
The McGregor Case, 76 Fed. Rep. 956. If a legislature may
prohibit sale of cigarettes it may prohibit that of coffee.
Tiedeman on Police Power, 2. Only where Congress abdicates
its power may the States control a traffic as is the case in
regard to liquor. Wilson Act construed in In re Rahrer, 140
U. S. 545, Gibbonsv Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 190. The state statute
involved is void as it amounts to a denial of equal protection of
the laws. The classification excepting jobbers and wholesalers
doing an interstate business with customers outside the State
is arbitrarily unequal and unjust. Connolly v Unwn Sewer
Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 540; Cotting v Stockyards Co., 183 U S.
79, 112. Section 5007, Iowa Code, is also void as against the
owner as a taking of property without due process of law in that
it fixes a lien and a personal judgment without any sort of
notice against the owner of the real estate in which the cigarettes are sold. McMillan v Anderson, 95 U S. 37, and Hagar
v Reclamation District, 111 U S. 701, distinguished. A party
leasing a building for building purposes has no knowledge that
it may be used for a sale in violation of the statute. McBride
v State, 70 Mississippi, 516, as to what is due process of law,

OCTOBER TERM, 1904;
Argument for Defendant m Error.

196 U. S.

see Low v Kansas, 163 13 S. 81, Hurtado v California, 110
13 S. 516.
Mr F E. Northup for defendant in error in this case and
Mr Henry Jayne for defendant in error in No. 150, argued
simultaneously herewith.'
Section 5007, Code of Iowa, is not void as an attempt to
regulate interstate commerce.
Whatever article of commerce is recognized as fit for barter
or sale, when its manufacture is made subject to Federal regulation and taxation, must be regarded as a legitimate article of
commerce although it may be within the police power of the
States. In re Rahrer, 140 U S. 559, Brown v Maryland, 12
Wheat. 419; Leisy v Hardin, 135 U S. 100; Austin v Tennessee, 101 Tennessee 563. And if Congress authorizes its importation, no State can prohibit its introduction. License Cases,
5 How 504.
A State, however, is not bound to furnish a market for such
articles, or to abstain from passing any law which may be necessary or advisable to guard the health or morals of its citizens,
although such law may discourage importations or diminish
profits of the importer. Boston Beer Co. v Kansas, 97 U S.
25, Mugler v Kansas, 123 U S. 623, Foster v Kansas, 112
U S. 201.
Police power may be lawfully resorted to for the purpose
of preserving public health, safety and morals; a large discrimination is necessarily vested in the legislature to determine what the public interests require and what measures
are necessary for the protection of such interests. Cases supra
and Holden v Hardy, 169 U S. 366, 392, Barbmeyer v Iowa,
18 Wall. 129; Powell v Pennsylvania, 127 U S. 678, Plumley
v Massachusetts, 155 U S. 161, Vanderbilt v Adams, 7 Cow
(N. Y ) 349, Wilson v Blackbird &c. Co., 2 Peters, 245, Sherlock v Alling, 93 U S. 99; GloucesterFerry Co. v Pennsylvania,
114 U S. 196, Mo. Pac. Ry. Co. v Finley, 38 Kansas, 550;
I See Hodge v.

Muscatine County, post, p. 276.

COOK v. MARSHALL COUNTY
196 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

Kimmush v Ball, 129 U S. 217, Waterbury v Newton, 50
N. J L. 534.

A State cannot prohibit the sale of articles of lawful commerce, when imported, by the importer, when such articles
do not become a part of the common mass of property within
the State, and so long as they remain m the original packages m which they were imported. Lemsy v Hardin, 135 U S.
100; Schollenberger v Pennsylvansa, 171 U S. 1, Bowman v
Chcago &c. Ry. Co., 125 U S. 465, State v Winters, 25 Pac.
Rep. 237, May v New Orleans, 178 U S. 496. But the original package must be of such form and size as is so used
by producers or shippers for the purpose of securing both
convenience in handling and security in transportation of
merchandise between dealers, ?n the ordinary course of actual
commerce. Commonwealth v Schollenberger, 156 Pa. St. 201,
McGregor v Cone, 104 Iowa, 465.
Where the mode of putting up a package is not adapted to
meet the requirements of interstate commerce, but those of an
unlawful domestic retail trade, the dealer will not be protected
on the ground that he is selling an original package. Austin
v Tennessee, 101 Tennessee, 563, Commonwealth v Bisham,
138 Pa. St. 639; Haley v Nebraska, 42 Nebraska, 556, S..C.,
60 N. W Rep. 962, Commonwealth v Fisherman,128 U S. 687,
Commonwealth v Paul, 170 Pa. St. 284, State v Chapman, 47
N. W Rep. 411. The size of the package is immaterial where
bona fide transactions are carried on. 5 How 608, Commonwealth v Zelt, 138 Pa. St. 615, Austin v Tennessee, 101 Tennessee, 563, S. C., 179 U S. 343.
Section 3392, Rev Stat., as to size of cigarette packages is
for the purpose solely of taxation and the better enforcement
of the internal revenue law
The court must consider in determining this question that
the transaction was not in good faith, and the packages were
not shipped in the usual and ordinary manner and according
to the customary usages of trade and commerce.
The act should not be held unconstitutional unless it is a

OCTOBER TERMI, 1904.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

196 U. S.

clear usurpation of prohibited power. Objections as to the
policy of the act cannot be considered. People v Jackson Co.,
9 Michigan, 285, New Orleans G L. Co. v Loumsana L. & H.
Co., 115 U S. 650; Black on Const. Prohib. ยง 62, Cases reported in 58 California, 635, 2 Iowa, 280; 13 Minnesota, 341,
349; 68 N. Y 381, 30 Iowa, 9; 61 Am. Dec. 338, n., 6 Am. Ency
Law, 2d ed., 921, n., 20 Iowa, 338, 22 AtI. Rep. 923, 33 Hun,
279; 80 Missouri, 678, 20 Florida, 522, 9 Indiana, 380; 15 Texas,
311, 74 Am. Dec. 522; 61 Am. Dec. 331 n., 15 Iowa, 304, 2
Iowa, 165.
The statute is not unconstitutional as applying more than
one subject or covering matters not within its scope. Duensing
v Roby, 142 Indiana, 168, Perry v Gross, 41 N. W Rep. 799;
Lame v Tiernan, 110 Illinois, 173. It is not unconstitutional
because not uniform in operation between jobbers and wholesalers doing interstate business and citizens of the State. See
original package cases cited supra;nor does it deprive any one of
his property without due process of law Smith v Skow, 97
Iowa, 640; Hodge v Muscatine County, 96 N.W Rep. (Iowa) 969.
The power to tax is inherent in the Government. It is a
legislative power and is limited only by constitutional provisions, subject thereto, it extends to everything and everybody, as the legislature may see fit to apply it. Courts cannot control its exercise, unless such exercise conflicts with
constitutional limitations. 25 Am. & Eng. Ency Law, 18,
and cases cited, Ferry v Deneen, 82 N W Rep. (Iowa) 424,
27 Iowa, 28, 76 Illinois, 561, 52 Wisconsin, 53, Hagar v Reclamation Dist., 111 U S. 701.
The power to impose privilege and occupation taxes exists
independently and concurrently in the state and Federal government, subject to constitutional restrictions. Being in the
discretion of the legislature, it may select some for this purpose
and exempt others, and select the mode in which taxes shall
be levied. 25 Am. & Eng. Ency Law, 21 n., 479, 481, 492;
Ward v Maryland, 12 Wall. 418, 5 How 504, License Tax
Cases, 5 Wall. 71, 69 Illinois, 80; U S. Const. Art. I, ยง 9,

COOK v. MARSHALL COUNTY
196 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

par. 5, 60 Am. Dec. 581, 133 Massachusetts, 161, 62 Pa. St.
491, 89 Georgia, 639, 33 Fed. Rep. 121.
The demand made for money under the police power is
secondary to the police regulation out of which the demand
grows; while in the case of taxation the principal object is
revenue. This distinction is not to be lost sight of, even
though the procedure for collection may be similar in both
cases. 46 Michigan, 183, 46 Illinois, 392, Cooley on Taxation, 2d ed., 586, 11 Johns, 77, Lwense Cases, 5 Wall.
462.
A tax imposed both for regulation and revenue is not for
that reason invalid. Hodge v Muscattne County, 96 N. W
Rep. 968, 2 Desty on Taxation, 1384.
An occupation charge is different from a general tax, and
the constitutional provisions that all taxes shall be equal and
uniform apply only to general taxation. It is sufficient if all
m the same class are taxed alike. 49 California, 557, 102
Illinois, 560; 11 Ohio St. 449; 46 N. J Eq. 270; 62 Pa. St. 491;
4 Texas, 137, 6 Wall. 606, 82 N. W Rep. 424, 29 Wisconsin, 592, 84 Maine, 215, 81 Virginia, 473, 66 N. W Rep.
893.
In passing upon the mulct liquor law the Supreme Court
of Iowa held that such tax was a charge for carrying on the
business and acted the same upon all persons and property
coming within its provisions; that as the law was general in its
scope and provisions, all persons liable thereunder must appear
and pay the tax without notice, and that notice was "no more
necessary to the property owner than in cases of taxes generally" Re Smith, 73 N. W Rep. 605, Smith v Skow, 66
N.-W Rep. 893.
The tax is also a penalty and rules governing ordinary taxes
do not govern. Ferry v Deneen, 82 N. W Rep. 424.
The meetings of the board of revision are fixed by law and
of these all persons must take notice. Palmer v McMahon,
133 U. S. 660; Glidden v Harmngton, 189 U S. 255, Dandson
v New Orleans, 96 U S. 97, McMillan v Anderson, 95 U S. 37

OCTOBER TERMI, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

196 U. S.

after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
MR. JusTIcE BROWN,

This case involves the constitutionality of section 5007 of
the Iowa Code, imposing a tax of $300 per annum upon every
person, and also upon the real property and the owner thereof,
whereon cigarettes are sold or kept for sale. The section is
printed in full in the margin.'
The facts of the case were that the plaintiff, Charles P Cook,
carried on a retail cigar and tobacco store upon premises leased
by him from his co-plaintiff. Cook ordered his cigarettes of
the American Tobacco Company, at St. Louis. They were
.delivered to an express company, and brought by such company from St. Louis, or other places outside of the State of
Iowa, directly to the place of business of the plaintiff, in small
pasteboard boxes, containing ten cigarettes each, each package
being sealed and stamped with the revenue stamp. These
packages were shipped absolutely loose, and were not boxed,
baled, wrapped or covered, nor were they in any way attached
together. Nothing appears in the record to indicate the means
used in transporting these cigarettes from the factory of the
manufacturer to the place of business of the retail dealer, and
we are left to infer that they were shoveled into and out of a
car, and delivered to plaintiffs m that condition. The pack'SEC. 5007 Tax on sale.-There shall be assessed a tax of three hundred
dollars per annum against every person, partnership or corporation, and
upon the real property, and the owner thereof, within or whereon any
cigarettes, cigarette paper or cigarette wrapper, or any paper made or prepared for the use in making cigarettes, or for the purpose of being filled with
tobacco for smoking, are sold or given away, or kept with the intent to be
sold, bartered or given away, under any pretext whatever. Such tax shall
be in addition to all other taxes and penalties, shall be assessed, collected and
distributed in the same manner as the mulct liquor tax, and shall be a perpetual lien upon all property both personal and real used in connection with
the business; and the payment of such tax shall not be a bar to prosecution
under any law prohibiting the manufacturing of cigarettes, or cigarettes paper
or selling, bartering or giving away the same. But the provisions of this
section shall not apply to the sales by jobbers and wholesalers m doing an
interstate business with customers outside of the State.

COOK v. MARSHALL COUNTY
196 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ages were not separately or otherwise addressed, but at the
time they were delivered to the express company the driver
gave a receipt showing the number of packages and the name
of the person to whom they were to be sent, retaining a duplicate himself.
The constitutionality of the act as applied to the plaintiffs
was attacked upon two grounds:
(1) That it was an attempt to interfere with the power of
Congress to regulate commerce between the States.
(2) That it denied to the plaintiffs the equal protection of
the laws.
The argument of the plaintiffs is the same as that which
was pressed upon our attention a few years ago in Austin v
Tennessee, 179 U S. 343, that the packages of ten cigarettes
were each the original packages in which these cigarettes were
imported from other States, and that under the decisions of
this court in Brown v Maryland, 12 Wheat. 419, Leisy v
Hardin, 135 U S. 100, and Shollenberger v Pennsylvania, 171
U S. 1, they were entitled to the immunities attaching to
original packages. We reviewed these and a large number of
other cases in our opinion, and came to the conclusion that
these boxes were in no just sense original packages within the
spirit of the prior cases, and that their shipment in this form
was not a bona fide transaction, but was merely a convenient
subterfuge for evading the law forbidding the sale of cigarettes
within the State. This case differs from that only in the fact
that in the Austin case the packages were thrown loosely into
baskets, which were shipped on board the tram and carried
to Austin's place of business. These baskets, it is argued,
might have been considered as the original packages.
This difference, however, was not insisted upon as distinguishing the two cases in principle. Indeed it was admitted
to be one not of "great magnitude or seeming legal significance." The main argument of the plaintiffs was frankly addressed to a reconsideration of the principle involved in the
Austin case, and a reinsistence upon the position there taken,

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opimon of the Courmt.

196 U. S.

that the packages in which the cigarettes were actually shipped
must govern, and that we cannot look to the motives which
actuated such shipment, or to the fact that ordinary importations of cigarettes were made in boxes containing a large number of these so-called original packages. We have carefully
reconsidered the principle of that case, and, without repeating
the arguments then used in the opimons, we have seen no
reason to reverse or change the views there expressed.
The term original package is not defined by any statute,
and is simply a convenient form of expression adopted by
Chief Justice Marshall in Brown v Maryland, to indicate that
a license tax could not be exacted of an importer of goods from
a foreign country who disposes of such goods in the form in
which they were imported. It is not denied that in the
changed and changing conditions of commerce between the
States, packages in which shipments may be made from one
State to another may be smaller than those "bales, hogsheads,
barrels or tierces," to which the term was originally applied
by Chief Justice Marshall, but whatever the form or size em'ployed there must be a recognition of the fact that the transaction is a bona fide one, and that the usual methods of interstate shipment have not been departed from for the purpose
-of evading the police laws of the States.
In LeV v Hardin, 135 U S.100, quarter barrels, and even
one-eighth barrels and cases of beer, were recognized as original
packages or kegs, though the size of such packages and the
usual methods of transporting beer do not seem to have been
made the subject of discussion. There is nothing in the opimon
to indicate that it was not legitimate to ship beer in kegs of
this size. So, too, in Shollenberger v Pennsylvania, oleomargarine transported and sold in packages of ten pounds weight
was recognized as bona fide, but it was expressly found by the
jury in that case that the package was an original package, as
required by the act of Congress, and was of such "form, size
and weight as is used by producers or shippers for the purpose
of securing both convenience in handling and security in trans-

COOK v. MARSHALL COUNTY.
196 U. S.

Opinon of the Court.

portation of merchandise between dealers in the ordinary
course of actual commerce, and the said form, size and weight
were adopted in good faith, and not for the purpose of evading
the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, said package
being one of a number of similar packages forming one consignment, shipped by the said company to the said defendant.", While it may be impossible to define the size or shape
of an original package, the principle upon which the doctrine
is founded would not justify us in holding that any package
which could not be commercially transported from one State
to another as a separate importation could be considered as
an original package.
But it is insisted with much earnestness that in determining
the lawfulness of sales in original packages we are bound to
consider that package as original in which the articles were
actually shipped, particularly where Congress, for the purpose
of taxation, has prescribed a certain size of package to be
separately stamped, and that we have no right to look beyond
the letter of the term and inquire into the motives which
dictated the size of the packages in each case. This argument
was also made in the Austin case, was considered at some
length, and held to be unsound. In delivering the opinion we
said (p. 359) "The real question in this case is whether the
size of the package in which the importation is actually made
is to govern, or, the size of the package in which bona fide
transactions are carried on between the manufacturer and the
wholesale dealer residing in different States. We hold to the
latter view The whole theory of the exemption of the original
package from the operation of state laws is based upon the idea
that the property is imported in the ordinary form in which,
from time to time immemorial, foreign goods have been brought
into the country"
While it is doubtless true that a perfectly lawful act may not
be impugned by the fact that the person doing the act was
impelled thereto by a bad motive, yet where the lawfulness
or unlawfulness of the aot )s made an issue the intent of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

196 U. S.

actor may have a material bearing in characterizing the transaction. We have had frequent occasions to treat of this subject in passing upon the validity of legislative acts or municipal
ordinances. So where the lawfulness of the method used for
transporting goods from one State to another is questioned, it
may be shown that the intent of the party concerned was not
to select theusual and ordinary method of transportation, but
an unusual and more expensive one, for the express purpose
of evading or defying the police laws of the State. If the
natural result of such method be to render inoperative laws
intended for the protection of the people, it is pertinent to
inquire whether the act was not done for that purpose, and to
hold that the interstate commerce clause of the Constitution
is invoked as a cover for fraudulent dealing, and is no defense
to a prosecution under the state law
The power of Congress to regulate commerce among the
States is perhaps the most benign gift of the Constitution.
Indeed it may be said that without it the Constitution would
not have been adopted. One of the chief evils of the confederation was the power exercised by the commercial States
of exacting duties upon the importation of goods destined for
the interior of the country or for other States. The vast territory to -the west of the Alleghenies had not yet been developed
or subdivided into States, but the evil had already become so
flagrant that it threatened an utter dissolution of the confederacy The article was adopted that all of the States of the
Union might have the benefit of the duties collected at the
maritime ports, and to relieve them from the embarrassing
restrictions imposed upon the internal commerce of the country But the same policy which authorizes the use of this
power as a shield to protect commerce from the vexatious
interference of the States forbids its employment as a sword
to assail measures designed for the preservation of the public
health, morals, and comfort. States may differ among themselves as to the necessity and scope of such measures, but so
long as they are adopted in good faith, with an eye single to the

COOK v. MARSHALL COUNTY.
196 U. S.

Opimon of the Court.

,

public welfare, they are as much entitled to the recognition
of the general Government as if they were uniformly adopted
by all the States.
While this court has been alert to protect the rights of nonresident citizens and has felt it its duty, not always with the
approbation of the state courts, to declare the invalidity of
laws throwing obstacles in the way of free intercommunication
between the States, it will not lend its sanction to those who
deliberately plan to debauch the public conscience and set
at naught the laws of a State. The power of Congress to
regulate commerce is undoubtedly a beneficent one. The
police laws of the State are equally so, and it is our duty to
harmonize them. Undoubtedly a law may sometimes be successfully and legally avoided if not evaded, but it behooves'
one who stakes his case upon the letter of the Constitution not
to be wholly oblivious of its spirit. In thig case we cannot hold
that plaintiffs are entitled to its immunities without striking a
serious blow at the rights of the States to administer their own
internal affairs.
2. The argument that section 5007 of the Iowa Code denies
to the plaintiffs the equal protection of the laws is based upon
an alleged discrimination arising from the final sentence that
"the provisions of this section shall not apply to the sales by
jobbers and wholesalers in doing an interstate business with
customers outside of the State."
- We are referred m this connection to a series of well-known
cases arising under the anti-trust laws of the several States, to
the effect that laws against combinations in trade must be
uniform in their application as applied to all persons within
the same general class. The leading case upon this point is
Connolly v Union Sewer Pipe Company, 184 U S. 540, where
a law of Illinois against combinations to regulate prices and
productions, and create restrictions, was held to be invalid by
reason of the exemption of agricultural productions or live
stock while in the hands of the producer or raiser.
A similar case is that of Cotting v Kansas City Stock Yards
VOL. Cxcvi-18

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinon of the Court.

196 U. S.

Co., 183 U S. 79, wherein a statute of Kansas regulating the
prices to be paid for the use of public cattle stock yards was
held invalid by reason of the fact that it was intended to apply
only to the stock yards of Kansas City, and not to other companies or corporations engaged in like business in other portions of the State.
These cases, however, have but limited application to laws
imposing taxes, where the right of classification is held to permit of discrimination between different trades and callings
when not obviously exercised n a spirit of prejudice or favoritism. Kentucky Railroad Tax Cases, 115 U S. 321, Magoun v
Illinois Trust & Savings Bank, 170 U S.283, Amercan Sugar
Refinng Company v Louisiana, 179 U S.89; Bell's Gap Railroad Company v Pennsylvania. 134 U. S. 232.
This distinction was recognized by Mr. Justice Harlan in
Connolly v Union S&wer Pipe Company, on page 562, wherein
it is said "a State may in its wisdom classify property for purposes of taxation, and the exercise of its discretion is not to be
questioned in a court of the United States, so long as the
classification does not invade rights secured by the Constitution of the United States." It can scarcely be doubted that,
if the Connolly case had dealt with the subject of taxation, a
discriminative tax upon producers of agricultural products,
either greater or less than that miposed upon other manufacturers or producers, might have been held valid without
denying to either party the equal protection of the laws. The
holding in that case was simply that, considering that the object of the statute was to prevent combinations of capital or
skill for certain purposes, the exemption of farmers was based
upon no sound distinction, and rendered the law invalid as to
other classes included within it.
There is a clear distinction in principle between persons engaged in selling cigarettes generally or at retail, and those
engaged in selling by wholesale to customers without the
State. They are two entirely distinct occupations. One sells at
retail, and the other at wholesale one to the public generally,

COOIC v. MARSHALL COUNTY.
196 U. S.

Concurring Opinion and Dissents.

and the other to a particular class; one within the State, the
other without. From time out of mind it has been the custom
of Congress to impose a special license tax upon wholesale
dealers different from that imposed upon retail dealers. A
like distinction is observed between brewers and rectifiers,
wholesale and retail dealers in leaf tobacco and liquors, manufacturers of tobacco and manufacturers of cigars, as well as
peddlers of tobacco. It may be difficult to distinguish these
several classes in principle, but the power of Congress to make
this discrimination has not, we believe, been questioned.
Why the legislature should have made the distinction found
in section 5007 is not entirely clear, but it probably arose from
the belief that the imposition of a license tax upon wholesale
exporters of cigarettes would be as much an interference with
interstate commerce as the imposition of a similar tax upon
importers from abroad was held to be in Brown v Maryland.
We are satisfied the section is not open to the objection of
denying to the dealers in cigarettes the equal protection of the
laws.
The judgment of the Supreme Court is, therefore,
Affirmed.
MR. JusTICE WHITE, concurring.
The only difference between this and the Austn case is that
in this no basket was used to hold the many small packages
shipped at one and the same time to the same person. In my
opinon, such fact is not sufficient to take the case out of the
reach of the reasoning stated by me for concurring in the
decree in the Austin case. For the reasons given for my concurrence in that case I concur in the judgment rendered in
this.
The CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JUsTICE
TIcE PECKHAm dissented.

BpuwER and MR. Jus-

