AMERICAN EXPRESS CO. v. IOWA.
196 U. S.

Syllabus.

no statute, state or Federal, or authority thereunder, was called
in question here, this rule does not apply The true and
rational rule stated by this court in Brdge Propmetors v
Hoboken Co., 1 Wall. 116, 143, is clearly applicable: "That the
court must be able to see clearly, from the whole record, that a
certain provision of the Constitution or act of Congress was
relied on by the party who brings the writ of error, and that
the right thus claimed by him was denied." This case is the
not infrequent one of an attempt to clutch at the jurisdiction
of this court as an afterthought, when all other resources of
litigation have been exhausted.
The Federal question, if any such existed, as to which we
express no opinion, was not set up or claimed at the proper
time, and
The writ of error must, therefore, be dism.ssed.

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY v. IOWA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF IOWA.
No. 67. Argued December 2, 1904.-Decided January 3, 1905.

The writ of error in O'Neil v. Vermont, 144 U. S. 344, was dismissed because it did not appear that the commerce clause of the Constitution was
relied on in, was called to the attention of, or passed on by, the state court,
and the case is inapposite where it appears that the protection of commerce clause was properly set up, relied upon in, and demed by, the
state court.
Bowman v Chwago, 125 U. S. 465, Letsj v. Hardin,135 U. S. 100, Rhodes
v. Iowa, 170 U. S. 412, Vance v. Vandercook Co. No. 1, 170 U. S. 438,
rest on the broad principle of the freedom of commerce between the States,
of the right of citizens of one State to freely contract to receive and send
merchandise from and to another State, and on the want of power of one
State to destroy contracts concerning interstate commerce valid m the
States where made.
The right of the parties thereto to make a contract, valid in the State where
made, for the sale and purchase of merchandise and in so doing to fix the

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argunent for Plaintiff in Error.

196 U. S.

time when, and condition on which, completed title shall pass is beyond
question.
Without passing on the questions whether the property in a C. 0. D. shipment is at the risk of buyer or seller and when the sale is completed, a
package of intoxicating liquor received by an express company m one
State to be carried to another State, and there delivered to the consignee
C. 0. D. for price of the package and the expressage, is interstate commerce and is under the protection of the commerce clause of the Federal
Constitution and cannot, prior to its actual delivery to the consignee, be
confiscated under prohibitory liquor laws of the State.

THE American Express Company received at Rock Island,
Illinois, on or about March 29, 1900, four boxes of merchandise
to be carried to Tama, Iowa, to be there delivered to four
different persons, one of the packages being consigned to each.
The shipment was C. 0 D., three dollars to be collected
on each package, exclusive of thirty-five cents for carriage on
each. On March 31 the merchandise reached Tama, and on
that day was seized in the hands of the express agent. This
was based on an information before a justice of the peace,
charging that the packages contained intoxicating liquor held
by the express company for sale. The express company and
its agent answered, setting up the receipt of the packages in
Illinois, not for sale in Iowa, but for carriage and delivery to
the consignees. An agreed statement of facts was stipulated
admitting the receipt, the carriage, and the holding of the
packages as above stated. The seizure was sustained. Appeal was taken to a District Court. The express company and
its agent amended their answer, specially setting up the commerce clause of the Constitution of the United States. There
was judgment in favor of the express company, and the State
of Iowa appealed to the Supreme Court and obtained a reversal. 118 Iowa, 447 This writ of error was prosecuted.

Mr Leun Cass Ledyard for plaintiff in errorPlaintiff in error relies on the principles fairly established
as to the right of shippers sending goods from one State to
another free from state interference in Letsy v Hardin, 135
U S. 100, 110; Bowman v Chicago &c. Ry., 125 U. S. 465,

AMERICAN EXPRESS CO. r
196 U. S.

I

IOWA.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Rlwdes v Iowa, 170 U. S. 412, Vance v Vandercook Co., 170
U. S. 438, 444, In re Rahrer, 140 U S. 545.
The effect of the propositions established m these cases is
to exempt from state regulation or interference, a shipment of
liquors imported into a State, until the contract of shipment
or the act of interstate transportation is fully performed and
consummated by delivery to the consignee. Such delivery
marks the first point of time at which the goods become subjected to state control, as being commingled in the general
mass of property within the State, and then only is there a
subject upon which the police power of the State can operate.
The seizure of the liquors in the present case took place
before that time and while the goods were still in the possession of the interstate carrier engaged in the act of interstate
transportation. They were, therefore, clearly exempt from
seizure or interference or regulation by the State under the
propositions above stated.
O'Neil v Vermont, 144 U S. 323, was not decided on Federal
grounds but the writ of error was dismissed because not properly taken to the state court. While the position taken by
the state court in this case that the technical property in the
goods remained in the consignor, and that the express company was their agent with authority to transfer the title to
the consignee upon payment of the purchase price, is of little
importance, it is opposed by the great weight of authority
In such a case, the sale is complete upon a delivery of the goods
to the carrier, who becomes the agent of the consignee for the
purpose of accepting a delivery and transporting the goods to
him, and the agent of the consignor for the purpose of the
collection of the purchase price. Commonwealth v Russell, 11
Kentucky, 576, State v Catrns (Kansas), 68 Pac. Rep. 621,
James v Commonwealth, 42 S. W Rep. 1107, Commonwealth
v Flemsng, 130 Pa. St. 138, State v Flanagan,38 W Va. 53,
Pilgreenv State, 71 Alabama, 368, Higgtns v Murray, 73 N. Y
A252.
At the time of the seizure, the carrier m the present case was

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

19 U. S.

engaged in an act of interstate commerce transportation, and
until that .was concluded and consummated the goods were not
subject to the police power of the State. Norfolk & Western
Railway Co. v Sims, 191 U S. 441, citing Brown v Maryland,
12 Wheat. 419.
If such a transaction be not interstate commerce, protected
by the Federal Constitution from state regulation, then no
transaction can come within the definition of those words.
The suggestion in the opinion that "the express company in
effect engaged in the business of selling, through agents in this
State, intoxicating liquors shipped by it for that purpose from
the State of Illinois," and that "this was a mere device, to
evade the police laws of this Commonwealth" is not tenable.
The merchandise was not shipped by the express company,
but by the consignors.
The express company acted in entire good faith, accepting
and forwarding the shipment in the ordinary course of business, without the slightest knowledge or suspicion that it contained intoxicating liquors.
But if this were otherwise, and it had been shown that the
carrier had knowledge of the contents of the shipment, it
would be quite immaterial as under the cases cited supra the
property was under the protection of the commerce clause of
the Constitution while it was in transportation from one State
to another.
Mr Lawrence Maxwell, Jr., for plaintiff in error in No. 82'
argued simultaneously herewith.
The Iowa statute, as construed by its Supreme Court, is
repugnant to the Constitution and laws of the United States,
unless it is authorized by the Wilson Act.
The Wilson Act does not allow the State of Iowa to prevent
the delivery of liquor shipped from another State. Its power
under the Wilson Act does not attach until the interstate
I Adams Express Co. v.

Iowa, p. 147, post.

AMERICAN EXPRESS CO. v. IOWA.
196 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

transportation has been completed by delivery to the consignee in Iowa.
The express company did not sell the liquor. It acted only
as a common carrier to deliver, on certain conditions, liquor
already sold, and its agreement not to deliver the goods until
0. 0. D charges were paid and .then to return the money to
the shippers is a mere incident to its express business and does
not subject it to the charge that thereby it engaged m liquor
selling at retail in Iowa.
The right to contract in another State for the transportation
of merchandise from that State into Iowa, and incidentally to
fix the terms upon ivhich the goods shall be delivered, involves
interstate commerce in its fundamental aspect, and cannot
be controlled by the State of Iowa.
The Supreme Court of Iowa misconceived the decision of
this court in O'Neil v Vermont, see cases cited by plaintiff in
error in No. 67
See article on Carriers by Justice Emlin McClain, of Iowa,
published in 1903, in 6 Cyc. 476, stating that on delivery
C. 0. D the title to the goods passes to the consignee on delivery to the carrier, but right to possession in the nature of a
vendor's lien remains with the consignor while the goods are
in the carrier's possession, and terminates only when the condition is performed and the money paid by the consignee to
the carrier, whereupon the title to and possession of the money
vests in the consignor. The following cases involved C. 0. D
shipments and support that view Pilgreen v State, 71 Alabama, 368, State v Carl, 43 Arkansas, 353, Carthagev Duvall,
202 Illinois, 234, Carthagev Munsell, 203 Illinois, 474, Breechwald v The People, 21 Ill. App. 213, Frolich v Alexander, 36
Ill. App. 428, Coffeen v Huber, 78 Ill. App. 455, State v Cairns,
68 Pac. Rep. (Kansas) 621, Commonwealth v Russell, 11 Ky
L. R. 576, James v Commonwealth, 102 Kentucky, 108, S. C.,
19 Ky L. R. 1045,S. C., 42 S. W Rep. 1107, State v Intoxicatsng Ltquors, 73 Maine, 278, State v Peters, 91 Maine, 31,
Higgins v Murray, 73 N. Y 252, Norfolk & Western R. R. Co.

OCTOBER TERMA, 1904.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

196 U. S.

v Barnes, 104 N. Car. 25, Commonwealth v Fleming, 130 Pa. St.
138, Bruce v State, 36 Texas Crim. App. 53, S. C., 35 S. W
Rep. 383, Freshman v State, 37 Texas Crim. App. 126, S. C.,
38 S. W Rep. 1007, State v Flanagan,38 W Va. 53, Sarbecker
v State, 65 Wisconsin, 171, United States v Adams Express
Co. (Iowa), 119 Fed. Rep. 24a; United States v Lackey (W Va.),
120 Fed. Rep. 577, United States v Orene Parker Co. (Ky.),
Cochran, D J., October 30, 1902, unreported.
Mr Charles W Mullan, Attorney General of the State of
Iowa, for defendant m error in this case and in No. 82:
Where merchandise is delivered by a consignor to a common
carrier to be transported by such common carrier to the consignee, and the common carrier is required to collect from the
consignee the purchase price of such merchandise before delivering the same to him, the sale is made at the place where
the purchase price is paid and the merchandise delivered to
the consignee.
Intoxicating liquors which are shipped C. 0. D from another
State into the State of Iowa cease to be protected by the
interstate commerce clause upon arrival at their destination,
and under the Wilson Act they at once upon arrival at their
destination become subject to the operation and effect of the
laws of Iowa.
No Federal question is involved which gives this court jurisdiction to hear and determine this cause, for the reason that
the decision of the Supreme Court of Iowa does not deny the
authority of Congress to regulate commerce among the several
States.
The ownership and possession of merchandise which is
shipped C. 0. D remain in the consignor until it is delivered
to the consignee by the common carrier upon payment of the
purchase price, and the sale is made at the place of delivery,
except where the consignee expressly designates the common
carrier as his agent to transport and deliver such merchandise,
or where the acts of the parties show that the consignor in-

AMERICAN EXPRESS CO. v. IOWA.
196 V. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

tended to part with his property and to transfer the title and
possession thereof to the consignee at the time of delivery to
the common carrier. United States v Shnver, 23 Fed. Rep.
134, United States v Cline, 26 Fed. Rep. 515, McElwee v Met.
Lumber Co., 69 Fed. Rep. 302, McNeil v Brawn, 53 N. J Law,
617, Thompson v Cincinnati, W & Z. Ry. Co., 1 Bond C. C.
152, Hooper v C & N Ry. Co., 27 Wisconsin, 81, Braddock
Glass Co. v Irwnn, 153 Pa. St. 440; Millheiser v Erdman, 98
N. Car. 292, Stone v Perry,60 Maine, 48, Moakes v Nicholson,
19 C. B. N. S. 290; Hirshornv Canney, 98 Massachusetts, 149,
Daugherty v Fowler, 44 Kansas, 628, Suit v Woodhall, 13
Massachusetts, 391, Wasserboehr v Boulier, 84 Maine, 165,
Lane v Chadwick, 146 Massachusetts, 68, Benjamin on Sales
(1883), § 1040; State v O'Neil, 58 Vermont, 140; Brewing Co.
v DeFrance,91 Iowa, 108, State v U S. Ex. Co., 70 Iowa, 271,
The Francis, 13 U S. 183, Mechem on Sales, §§ 494, 502, 740.
The place of the sale of goods or merchandise is the place
of delivery; that is, where the sale is completed by delivery
Dow v Gould &c. Silver Min. Co., 31 California, 629; Mead
v Dayton, 28 Connecticut, 39; Lewis v McCabe, 49 Connecticut, 155, Weil v Golding, 141 Massachusetts, 364.
Under the Wilson Act all fermented, distilled or other intoxicating liquors transported into any State or remaining
therein for use, consumption, sale or storage, are, upon arrival
in such State, subject to the operation and effect of the laws
of the State to which they are shipped, and subject to the
police powers of such State, to the same extent as domestic
property therein, whether such liquors are transported in
original packages or otherwise. 26 Stat. 313, c. 728, In re
Rahrer, 140 U S. 545, Rhodes v Iowa, 170 U S. 412.
Where merchandise is shipped C. 0. D., the liability of the
carrier ceases and that of a warehouseman attaches at the
time of the arrival of such merchandise at the place of its
destination. Weed v Barney, 45 N. Y 344, Gilson v Am.
Merchants' Union Ex. Co., 1 Hun (N. Y.), 387, Marshall v
Am. Ex. Co., 7 Wisconsin, 1, Pac. Ex. Co. v Wallace, 60

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

196 U. S.

Arkansas, 100; Schouler on Bailments and Carriers, 2d ed.,

§507
There is no duty or obligation arising out of the nature of
a carrier's business which requires such carrier to collect payment of the price of goods transported by it as a condition
precedent to their delivery Such obligation arises, if at all,
by special contract, express or implied. Cox v Columbus &c.
R. Co., 91 Alabama, 392, Unon R. Co. v Riegel, 73 Pa. St. 72.
The statute of Iowa under which the liquors were seized
and condemned is set out upon pages 19 and 20 of the transcript of the record.
In the seventh paragraph of the agreed statement of facts,
it is expressly stipulated that the packages of intoxicating
liquors in question were to be delivered to the consignees at
the office of the American Express Company in Tama, Tama
County, Iowa. (Transcript of record, p. 5.)
MR. JusTICE. WHIE, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

Although the majority of the Supreme Court of Iowa doubted
the correctness of a ruling previously made by that court,
nevertheless it was adhered to under the rule of stare deciss,
and was made the basis of the decision in this cause. In the
previous case it was held by the Supreme Court of Iowa that,
where merchandise was received by a carrier with a duty to
collect the price on delivery to the consignee, the merchandise
remained the property of the consignor, and was held by the
carrier as his agent with authority to complete the sale. Upon
this premise it was decided that intoxicating liquors shipped
C. 0 D from another State were subject to be seized on their
arrival in Iowa in the hands of the express company Sustaining upon this principle the seizure in this case, the Supreme
Court &fIowa did not expressly consider the defense based on
the commerce clause of the Constitution of the United States,
because the court deemed that its ruling on the subject of the
effect of the C. 0 D shipment was a wholly non-Federal

AMERICAN EXPRESS CO. v. IOWA.
196 U. S.

Opunon of the Court.

ground, broad enough to sustain the conclusion reached. And
this the court considered was sanctioned by O'Neil v Vermont,
144 U S. 324.
In accord with the opinion of the Supreme Court of Iowa it
is insisted at bar that this writ of error should be dismissed for
want of jurisdiction, because the decision below involved no
Federal question, and the case of O'Neil v Vermont, supra, is
relied upon. The contention is untenable. As pointed out
in Norfolk & Western Ry. Co. v Sims, 191 U S. 441, the view
taken of the O'Neil case is a mistaken one. True, in that-case
the Supreme Court of Vermont gave to a C. 0 D shipment
the effect attributed to itby the Supreme Court of Iowa in
this case. True, also, a writ of error was prosecuted from this
court to the Vermont court upon the assumption that the
commerce clause of the Constitution was involved, but this
court dismissed the writ of error because it did not appear that
the commerce clause of the Constitution was relied on in the
state court, was in any way called to the attention of that
court, or was passed upon by it. As on this record it appears
that the protection of the commerce clause was directly invoked in the state court, it is apparent that the O'Neil case is
inapposite. And as, in order to decide the contention that the
judgment below rests upon an adequate non-Federal ground,
we must necessarily consider how far the C. 0 D shipment
was protected by the commerce cladse of the Constitution,
which is the question on the merits, we pass from the motion
to dismiss to the consideration of the rights asserted under the
commerce clause of the Constitution.
We can best dispose of such asserted rights by a brief reference to some of the controlling adjudications of this court.
In Bowman v Chwago & N W Ry. Co., 125 U S. 465, it
was held that the statutes of Iowa, forbidding common carriers
from bringing intoxicating liquors into the State of Iowa from
another State or Territory without obtaining a certificate required by the laws of Iowa, was void, as being a regulation of
commerce between the States, and, therefore, that those laws

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opimon of the Court.

196 U. S.

did not justify a common carrier in Illinois from refusing to
receive and transport intoxicating liquors consigned to a point
within the State of Iowa.
In Letsy v Hardin, 135 U S. 100, it was held that a law of
the State of Iowa, forbidding the sale of liquor in that State,
could not be made to apply to liquors shipped from another
State into Iowa, before the merchandise had been delivered in
Iowa and there sold in the original package, without causing
the statute to be a regulation of commerce repugnant to the
Constitution of the 'United States. In Rhodes v Iowa, 170
U S. 412, the same doctrine was reiterated, except that it was
qualified to the extent called for by the provisions of the act
of Congress of August 8, 1890, 26 Stat. 313, commonly known
as the Wilson Act. In that case a shipment of intoxicating
liquors had been made into the State of Iowa from another
State, and the agent of the ultimate railroad carrier in Iowa
was proceeded against for an alleged violation of the Iowa law,
because when the merchandise reached its destination m Iowa
he had moved the package from the car in which it had been
transported to a freight depot, preparatory to delivery to the
consignee. The contention was that, as by the Wilson Act,
the power of the State operated upon the property the moment
it passed the state boundary line, therefore the State of Iowa
had the right to forbid the transportation of the merchandise
within the State and to punish those carrying it therein. This
was not sustained. The court declined to express an opinon
as to the authority of Congress, under its power to regulate
commerce, to delegate to the States the right to forbid the transportation of merchandise from one State to another. It was,
however, decided that the Wilson Act manifested no attempt
on the part of Congress to exert such power, but was only a
regulation of commerce, since it merely provided, in the case of
intoxicating liquors, that such merchandise, when transported
from one State to another, should lose its character as interstate commerce upon completion of delivery under the contract
of interstate shipment, and before sale in the original packages.

AMERICAN EXPRESS CO. v. IOWA.

196 U. S.

Opimon of the Court.

The doctrine of the foregoing cases was applied in Vance v
Vandercook Company, No. 1, 170 U. S. 438, 442, to the right
of a citizen of South Carolina to order from another State, for
his own use, merchandise, consisting of intoxicating liquors,
to be delivered in the State of South Carolina.
Coming to test the ruling of the court below by the settled
construction of the commerce clause of the Constitution, expounded in the cases just reviewed, the error of its conclusion
is manifest. EThose cases rested upon the broad principle of
the freedom of commerce between the States and of the right
of a citizen of one State to freely contract to receive merchandise from another State, and of the equal right of the citizen
of a State to contract to send merchandise into other States.
They rested also upon the obvious want of power of one State
to destroy contracts concerning interstate commerce, valid in
the States where made. True, as suggested by the court below, there has been a iversity of opinion concerning the effect
of a C. 0. D shipment, some courts holding that under such
a shipment the property is at the risk of the buyer, and, therefore, that delivery is completed when the merchandise reaches
the hands of the carrier for transportation, others deciding
that the merchandise is at the risk of the seller, and that the
sale is not completed until the payment of the price and delivery to the consignee at the point of destination.
But we need not consider this subject. Beyond possible
question, the contract to sell and ship was completed in Illinois.
The right of the parties to make a contract in Illinois for the
sale and purchase of merchandise, and in doing so to fix by
agreement the time when the condition on which the completed title should pass, is beyond question. The shipment
from the State of Illinois into the State of Iowa of the merchandise constituted interstate commerce. To sustain, therefore,
the ruling of the court below would require us to decide that
the law of Iowa operated in another State so as to invalidate a
lawful contract as to interstate commerce made in such other
State; and, indeed, would require us to go yet further, and say

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinmon of the Court.

196 U. S.

that, although under the interstate commerce clause a citizen
in one State had a right to have merchandise consigned from
another State delivered to him in the State to which the shipment was made, yet that such right was so illusory that it only
obtained in cases where in a legal sense the merchandise contracted for had been delivered to the consignee at the time and
place of shipment.
When it is considered that the necessary result of the ruling
below was to hold that wherever merchandise shipped from
one State to another is not completely delivered to the buyer
at the point of shipment so as to be at his risk from that moment
the movement of such merchandise is not interstate commerce, it becomes apparent that the principle, if sustained,
would operate materially to cripple if not destroy that freedom
of commerce between the States which it was the great purpose of the Constitution to promote. If upheld, the doc'trme
would deprive a citizen of one State of his right to order
merchandise from another State at the risk of the seller as
to delivery It would prevent the citizen of one State from
shipping into another unless he assumed the risk, it would
subject contracts made by common carriers and valid by the
laws of the State where made to the laws of another State,
and it would remove from the protection of the interstate
commerce clause all goods on consignment upon any condition as to delivery, express or implied. Besides, it would also
render the commerce clause of the Constitution inoperative as
to all that vast body of transactions by which the products of
the country move in the channels of interstate commerce by
means of bills of lading to the shipper's order with drafts for
the purchase price attached, and many other transactions
essential to the freedom of commerce, by which the complete
title to merchandise is postponed to the delivery thereof.
But general considerations need not be further adverted to
in view of prior decisions of this court relating to the identical
question here presented. [In Caldwell v North Carolina, 187
U, S. 622, the facts were these: The Chicago Portrait Coin-

AMERICAN EXPRESS CO. v. IOWA.
196 U. S.

Opimon of the Court.

pany shipped to Greensboro, North Carolina, by rail, consigned
to its order, certain pictures and frames. At Greensboro the
company had an agent who received the merchandise, put the
pictures and frames together and delivered them to the purchasers who had ordered them from Chicago. The contention
was that the portrait company was liable to a license charge
imposed by the town of Greensboro for selling pictures therein,
and 'this was supported by the argument that, although the
contract for sale was made in Chicago, it was completed in
North Carolina by the assembling of the pictures and frames
and the delivery there made. It was held that the license
could not be collected, because the transaction was an interstate commerce one. In the course of the opinion, after a full
review of the authorities, it was observed (p. 632)
"It would seem evident that, if the vendor had sent the
articles by an express company, which should collect on delivery, such a mode of delivery would not have subjected the
transaction to State taxation. The same could be said if the
vendor himself, or by a personal agent, had carried and-delivered the goods to the purchaser. That the articles were
sent as freight, by rail, and were received at the railroad station
by an agent, who delivered them to the respective purchasers,
in nowise changes the character of the commerce as interstate."
In Norfolk & Western Railway Company v Sims, 191 U S.
441, these were the facts: A resident of North Carolina ordered
from a corporation in Chicago a sewing machine. The machine was shipped under a bill of lading to the order of the
buyer, but this bill of lading was sent to the express agent at
the point of delivery in North Carolina, with instructions to
surrender the bill on payment of a C. 0. D charge. The contention was that the consummation of the transaction by the
express agent in transferring the bill of lading upon payment
of the C. 0. D charge was a sale of the machine in North
Carolina, which subjected the company to a license tax. The
contention was held untenable. Calling attention to the fact
that the contract of sale was completed as a contract in ChiVOL. CXCVI--1O

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinon of the Court.

196 U. S.

cago, and after reviewing some of the authorities on the subject of interstate commerce, the court said (p. 450)
"Indeed, the cases upon this subject are almost too numerous for citation, and the one under consideration is clearly
controlled by them. The sewing machine was made and sold
in another State, shipped to North Carolina in its original
package for delivery to the consignee upon payment of its
price. It had never become commingled with the general
mass of property within the State. While technically the title
of the machine may not have passed until the price was paid,
the sale was actually made in Chicago, and the fact that the
price was to be collected in North Carolina is too slender a
thread upon which to hang an exception of the transaction
from a rule which would otherwise declare the tax to be an
interference with interstate commerce."
The controlling force of the two cases last reviewed upon
this becomes doubly manifest when it is borne in mind that
the power of the States to levy general and undiscrimiating
taxes on merchandise shipped from one State into another
may attach to such merchandise before sale in the original
package when the merchandise has become at rest within the
State, and therefore enjoys the protection of its laws, and this
upon the well-recognized distinction that the movement of
merchandise from State to State, whilst constituting interstate
commerce, is not an import in the technical sense of the
Constitution. Amemcan Steel & Wire Company v Speed, 192
U. S. 500.
As from the foregoing considerations it results that the
court below erred in refusing to apply and enforce the commerce clause of the Constitution of the United States, its judgment must be reversed.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Iowa s reversed, and
the cause ss remanded to that court for proceedings not snconsistent with ths opnion.
MR. JUsTicE HARLAN dissents.

