MINING COMPANY v. TUNNEL COMPANY.

337

Syllabus.

196 U. S.

The present case affords still less reason for giving the pay
of an army officer to one in the Navy, where the compensation
is given for a character of service which never can be required
except in the Army
Upon this branch of the case we think the Court of Claims
was in error, and the judgment for mounted pay should not
have been rendered in favor of the claimant.
The judgment of the Court of Claims is modified, disallowmg the sums claimed in the petition and carried into the judgment on account of mounted pay and longevity pay based
thereon, and, as modified, is.
Affirmed.

CREEDE AND CRIPPLE CREEK MINING AND MILLING COMPANY v. UINTA TUNNEL MINING AND
TRANSPORTATION COMPANY
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
FOR THE EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 18. Argued April 15,18,1904.-Reargued January 10, 11, 190.-Decided January30,
1905.

As between the Government and the locator, it is not a vital fact that there
was a discovery of mineral in a lode claun before the commencement of
any of the steps required to perfect a location, and by accepting the
entry, and confirming it by a patent, the Government does not determine
as to the order of proceedings prior to the entry but only that all required
by law have been taken.
Adverse proceedings, are called for only when one mineral claunant contests the right of another mineral claimant, and, as a tunnel is not
a minuig claim but only a means of exploration, the owner, prior to
discovery of a lode or vein within the tunnel, is not bound to adverse
the application for the patent of a lode claim, the lode of which was
discovered on the surface; and his omission to do so does not preclude
him from asserting a right prior to the date of discovery named in the
certificate of location on -which the patent for the surface lode clain is
based.

VOL. oxovi-22

OCTOBER 'TERM, 1904.
Opunon of the Court.

196 U. S.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr Charles S. Thomas, with whom Mr A. T. Gunnell, Mr
W H. Bryant, Mr H. H. Lee, Mr T M. Patterson,Mr E.
F Rschardson and Mr H. N Hawkins were on the brief, for
petitioner.
Mr Charles J Hughes, Jr., with whom Mr Scott Ashton,
and Mr Gerald Hughes were on the brief, for respondent.
Mr J C Helm, by special leave, as amwus curue.
AIR. JUSTICE BREWER

delivered the opinion of the court.

Certiorari to review a judgment of the United States Circuit
Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit, 119 Fed. Rep. 164,
reversing a judgment-of the Circuit Court of the United States
rendered upon a verdict of a jury directed by the court.
The action was originally brought by the Creede and Cripple
Creek Mining and Milling Company, as plaintiff, against the
Uinta Tunnel Mining and Transportation Company, as defendant, in the District Court of the county of El Paso, Colorado,
for the possession of certain mining claims and for damages.
Equitable relief was also prayed. On motion of the defendant
the action was removed to the United States Circuit Court for
the District of Colorado, where, also on its motion, the pleadings were reformed and the action made one for the possession
of the property and damages.
The plaintiff filed an amended complaint, alleging in substance that it was the owner in fee and in possession and entitled to the possession of the Ocean Wave and Little Mary
lode mining claims-bemg survey lot No. 8192, evidenced by
mineral certificate No. 338, the patent of the United States
to said plaintiff for said claims bearing date December 21,
1893-that said claims were duly located and discovered on
the second of January, 1892, and that the patent related back
and took effect of that date for all purposes given and provided

MRINING COMPA-NY v. TUNNEL COMPANY
196 U. S.

Opnion of the Court.

by the laws of the United States and the State of Colorado
concerning mining claims.
Entry upon the claims and ouster of plaintiff by defendant
by means of its tunnel were also alleged.
Thereafter the defendant filed its answer. Upon motion
of plaintiff certain portions thereof were stricken out, and on
the trial testimony offered by the defendant in support of the
portions stricken out was rejected.
The matter to be determined is the sufficiency of the defenses pleaded and stricken out. To appreciate them fully
it is well to state some facts about which there is no dispute,
and it is sufficient to state the facts in reference to one of the
lode mining claims, as the proceedings in respect to the two
were alike. On February 1, 1892, J B. Winchell and E. W
McNeal filed in the office of the county clerk of El Paso County
(the county in which the mining claim was situated) a certificate of location which, not verified by affidavit or other testimony, stated that they had on January 2, 1892, located and
claimed, in compliance with the mining acts of Congress,
1,500 linear feet on the Ocean Wave lode, and gave the'boundaries of the claim. By several mesne conveyances the title of
Winchell and McNeal passed to the plaintiff. On August 5,
1893, the plaintiff made an entry of the claim in the proper
land office of the United States, and, no proceedings in adverse
being instituted, a patent therefor was issued to it on December 21, 1893. There is no reference m the patent to the discovery or the filing of the location certificate. The first appearance of the claim on the records of any office of the United
States is the entry in the local land office of August 5, 1893,
and the only prior record in any state office.is the location
certificate, unsworn to, fied February 1, in which the parties
filing the certificate stated that they had discovered the lode
on January 2, 1892. On February 25, 1892, a location certificate of the defendant's tunnel was filed in the office of the
county clerk of El Paso County, which, verified by the oath
of one of the locators, stated that on January 13, 1892, they

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opnion of the Court.

196 U. S

had located the tunnel site by posting in a conspicuous place
and at the entrance to the tunnel a notice of their intent to
claim and work the tunnel, that they had performed work
therein to the value of $270 in driving said tunnel and S80 in
furnishing and putting in timbers, and that it was their bona
Me intent to prosecute the work with diligence and dispatch
for the discovery of lodes and for mining purposes. The
certificate also contained a full description of the boundaries
of the tunnel site as claimed.
In a general way it may be said that the defenses which
were stricken out were a priority of right and an estoppel. We
quote these paragraphs from the answer"
"It further avers that the patent of the United States
issued for said Ocean Wave and Little Mary lodes and lode
mining claims was issued subject to the act of Congress in
reference to tunnel rights and subject to the laws of the State
of Colorado in reference to the right to run tunnels through
ground that may be patented, for the purpose of reaching
territory that belongs to tunnel owners beyond such patented
claims, and subject to the rights which the defendant The
Uinta Tunnel Mining and Transportation Company and its
grantors had acquired by reason of the location of said Uinta
tunnel, and in and to any and all lodes, veins, and mining
clams that it might cut or discover in driving said tunnel, as
is guaranteed to the locator of said tunnel under and by virtue
of section 2323 of the Revised Statutes of the United States;
that the pretended discovery alleged and pretended to have
been made in and upon said pretended Ocean Wave and Little
Mary lodes and lode mining claims, and by virtue of which the
plaintiff clanns the right to patent the same under the laws of
the United States, was not made until long after the location
of said Uinta tunnel, and at the time said pretended locations
were made said locators thereof were advised and knew that
said tunnel had been located and had been and was being
prosecuted with due diligence and in strict compliance with
the terms and conditions of the statutes of the United States

MINING COMPANY v. TUNNEL COMPANY
196 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and of the State of Colorado, which authorize and provide for
the location and prosecution of such tunnels and which define
and determine the rights pertaining thereto, and that said
pretended Ocean Wave and Little Mary lode mining claims,
so far as the same may be now claimed and possessed by said
plaintiff, were taken and held subject to the rights of this
defendant as owner of said Uinta tunnel, located in accordance
with section 2323 of the Revised Statutes of the United States,
and also subject to the rights of this defendant to cross said
clais and to drive drifts therein and to follow said lode claims
as located by this defendant and to reach lode claims so owned
by this defendant, as hereinbefore and hereinafter stated.
"It alleges that it and its grantors have expended in and
upon said tunnel the sum of more than one hundred and
twenty-five thousand dollars ($125,000), and in addition to
said expenditures have also expended upon surface work, in
unprovements and expenses, the further sum of not less than
ten thousand dollars ($10,000).
"It alleges that its work and the work of its said grantors
in and upon said tunnel has been done openly and without
concealment, that the same has been at all times prosecuted
under the claim of the defendant and its grantors of the right
so to do by virtue of the location of said tunnel and tunnel site
location, under and by virtue of the laws of the United States,
and under the provisions of section 2323 of the Revised Statutes of the United States; and that the expenditures thereof
and the developments made thereon have been made in compliance with the terms and provisions of and in reliance upon
said statute.
"That the plaintiff, by permitting and allowing this defendant to expend more than the sum of one hundred and thirtyfive thousand dollars ($135,000) as aforesaid in reaching,
uncovering and discovering said ore body, has no right to interfere with the defendant in operating its tunnel over, through
and along said pretended Ocean Wave and Little Mary lodes
and lode mining claims, but that, on the contrary, the plaintiff

OCTOBER TERMI, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

196 U. S.

by its conduct and actions in the premises as heremabove
recited and set forth has permitted and allowed the defendant
to expend said sum of one hundred and thirty-five thousand
dollars ($135,000), and has permitted and allowed the defendant so to proceed with said tunnel through and across said
pretended Ocean Wave and Little Mary lodes and lode mnung
claims until the same has ripened into such a license and
permission as entitles the defendant to use its said tunnel as
it penetrates said pretended Ocean Wave and Little Mary
lodes and lode mining claims, and that said license and permission is such that the defendant cannot be disturbed therein."
It was also alleged that the tunnel had been driven some
2,200 feet, that it entered the ground of the plaintiff at about
550 feet from its portal, and in running through that ground
the tunnel was driven 625 feet, leaving the plaintiff's ground
at about 1,175 feet from the portal, that after passing it the
defendant discovered in the tunnel three or four blind lodes,
which it duly located, and it was not until after the discovery
and location of these lodes that the plaintiff commenced this
action.
Was there error in striking out these defenses? By section 2319, Rev Stat., "all valuable mineral deposits in lands belonging to the United States, both surveyed and unsurveyed,
are hereby declared to be free and open to exploration and
purchase." Until, therefore, the title to the land passes from
the Government the minerals therein are "free and open to
exploration and purchase." A lode locator acquires a vested
property right by virtue of his location, Clipper Mining Co.
v Eli Minsng & Land Co., 194 U S. 220, but what is the
extent of that property right? Section 2322 defines it as
shall have the exclusive right
follows: "The locators
of possession and enjoyment of all the surface included within
the lines of their locations, and of all veins, lodes, and ledges
throughout their entire depth, the top or apex of which lies
inside of such surface lines extended downward vertically,
although such veins, lodes or ledges may so far depart from a

MINING COMPANY c. TUNNEL COMPANY
196 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

perpendicular in their course downward as to extend outside
the vertical side lines of such surface locations." The express
grant to the locator made by this section includes only the
surface and the veins apexing within the boundaries of the
location. Until, therefore, by entry and payment to the
Government the equitable title to the ground passes to the
locator, he is in no position to question any rights of exploration which are granted by other provisions of the statute.
The fee still remains in the Government. By section 2320
it is provided that "no location of a mining claim shall be
made until the discovery of the vein or lode within the limits
of the claim located." And by section 2324. "The miners
of each minimng district may make regulations not in conflict with the laws of the Umted States, or with the laws of
the State or Territory in which the district is situated, governing the location, manner of recording, amount of work necessary to hold possession of a mining claim, subject to the following requirements: The location must be distinctly marked on
the ground so that its boundaries can be readily traced. All
records of mining claims hereafter made shall contain the name
or names of the locators, the date of the location, and such a
description of the -claim or claims located, by reference to some
natural object or permanent monument as will identify the
claim." Tunnel rights are granted by Section 2323, which
reads:
"Where a tunnel is run for the development of a vein or
lode, or for the discovery of mines, the owners of such tunnel
shall have the right of possession of all veins or lodes within
three thousand feet from the face of such tunnel on the line
thereof, not previously known to exist, discovered in such
tunnel, to the same extent as if discovered from the surface,
and locations on the line of such tunnel of veins or lodes not
appearing on the surface, made by other parties after the
commencement of the tunnel, and while the same is being
prosecuted with reasonable diligence, shall be invalid, but
failure to prosecute the work on the tunnel for six months

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opmnon of the Courb.

196 U. S.

shall be considered as an abandonment of the right to all
undiscovered veins on the line of such tunnel."
It does not appear from the answer or testimony that the
tunnel had reached the boundaries of the plaintiff's clams
prior to the entry or even prior to the patent. For the purpose
of this case, therefore, we must assume that, although its line
had been marked out-a line extending through the plaintiff's
ground-yet in fact no work had been done within such ground
prior to the patent.
The propositions upon which the plaintiff relies are that
discovery is the initial fact, that the patent when issued relates
back to that initial fact and confirms all rights as of that date,
that no inquiry is permissible as to the time of that discovery,
it being concluded by the issue of the patent; that such time
antedated anything done in or for the tunnel, that no adverse
proceedings were instituted after it had applied for patent,
and that, therefore, its right became vested in the ground, the
same right which any other landowner has, and which could
not be disturbed by the defendant by means of its tunnel.
St. Louts Mining Company v Montana Mining Company, 194

U S. 235.
On the other hand, defendant contends that, as the first
record in any office of the Government was the record of the
entry on August 5, .1893, the patent issued in an ex parte proceeding is conclusive only that every preceding step, including
discovery, had then been taken, that it in fact located its tunnel
site prior to any discovery or marking on the ground of plaintiff's claim, that it was not called upon to adverse plaintiff's
application for a patent, because no patent is ever issued for a
tunnel, and it had not then discovered any vein within its
tunnel, that plaintiff, with full knowledge of defendant's tunnel
location, permitted the driving of the tunnel through its ground
and beyond, at an expenditure of $135,000, and made no objection until the discovery of the veins beyond its ground, and
then for the first time and to prevent defendant from developing such veins brought this action, and that by such acquies-

iMINING COMPANY v. TUNNEL COMPANY
196 U. S.

Opimon of the Court.

cence it was now estopped to question defendant's use of the
tunnel.
Obviously the parties divide as to the effect of plaintiff's
patent. The Circuit Court held with the plaintiff, the Court
of Appeals with the defendant. It may be conceded that a
patent is conclusive that the patentee has done all required
by law as a condition of the issue, that it relates to the initiation
of the patentee's right and cuts off all intervening claims. It
may also be conceded that discovery of mineral is the initial
fact. But when did the initial fact take place? Are all other
parties concluded by the locator's unverified assertion of the
date or the acceptance by the Government of his assertion as
sufficient with other matters to justify the issue of a patent?
Undoubtedly, so far as the question of time is essential to the
right, the patent is conclusive, but is it beyond that?
In order to reach a clear understanding of the question it
seems necessary to consider the legislation. Three things are
provided for, discovery, location and patent. The first is the
primary, the initial fact. The others are dependent upon it
and are the machinery devised by Congress for securing to the
discoverer of mineral the full benefit of his discovery Chap. 6
of Title 32, Rev Stat., is devoted to the subject of "Mineral
Lands and Mining Resources." The first section, 2318, re,
serves mineral lands from sale, except as expressly directed.
The next provides that all valuable mineral deposits in government lands shall be free and open to exploration and purchase and the lands in which they are found to occupation and
purchase. In the next it is declared that no location of a
mining claim shall be made until the discovery of the veto or
lode within the limits of the claim. The whole scope of the
chapter is the acquisition of title from the United States to
mines and mineral lands, the discovery of the mineral being,
as stated, the initial fact. Without that no rights can be acquired. As said by Lindley, in his work on Mines, 2d ed.,
vol. 1, sec. 335
"Discovery in all ages and all countries has been regarded

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

196 U. S.

as conferring rights or claims to reward. Gamboa, who represented the general thought of his age on this subject, was of
the opinion that the discoverer of mines was even more worthy
of reward than the inventor of a useful art. Hence, in the
mining laws of all civilized countries the great consideration
for granting mines to individuals is discovery. 'Rewards so
bestowed,' says Gamboa, 'besides being a proper return for
the labor and anxiety of the discoverers, have the further
effect of stimulating others to search for veins and mines, on
which the general prosperity of the state depends.' "
Location is the act or series of acts by which the right of
exclusive possession of mineral veins and the surface of mineral
lands is vested in the locator. For this the only requirement
made by Congress is the marking on the surface of the boundaries of the claim. By section 2324, however, Congress recognized the validity of any regulations made by the miners of
any mimng district not in conflict with the laws of the United
States or the laws of the State or Territory within which the
district is situated. This is held to authorize legislation by
the State. Thus in Belkc v Meagher, 104 U S.279, 284, it
was said.
"A location is not made by taking possession alone, but by
working on the ground, recording and doing whatever else is
required for that purpose by the acts of Congress and the local
laws and regulations."
In Kendall v San Juan Mining Company, 144 U. S.658,
664, is this language.
"Section 2324 of the Revised Statutes makes the manner of
locating mining claims and recording them subject to the laws
of the State or Territory, and the regulations of each mining
district, when they are not in conflict with the laws of the
United States."
See also Erhardt v Boaro, 113 U S. 527, 533, 534, 535,
Butte City Water Company v Baker, 196 U S. 119.
And many Territories and States (Colorado among the number) have made provisions in respect to the location other

MINING COMPANY v. TUNNEL COMPANY
196 U. S.

Opinon of the Court.

than the mere marking on the ground of the boundaries of the
claim. So before a location in those States is perfected all
the provisions of the state statute as well as of the Federal
must be complied with, for location there does not consist in
a single act. In Morrison's Mining Rights, 11th ed., p. 37, the
author, having primarily reference to the laws of Colorado,
says:
"The location of a lode consists indefining its position and
boundaries, and in doing such acts as indicate and publish the
intention to occupy and hold it under the license of the United
States. The formal parts of location include: 1, the location
notice at discovery; 2, the discovery shaft; 3, the boundary
stakes."
In Smelting Company v Kemp, 104 U S. 636, 649, Justice Field, referring to the fact that the terms "location" and
"mining claim" are often indiscriminately used to denote the
same thing, says by way of definition.
"A mining claim is a parcel of land containing precious metal
in its soil or rock. A location is the act of appropriating such
parcel, according to certain established rules."
See also Northern Pacific R. R. Co. v Sanders, 49 Fed. Rep.
129, 135.
The patent is the instrument by which the fee simple title
to the mining claim is granted.
Returning now to the matter of location, the Colorado
statutes in substance require.
"1. To place at the point of discovery, on the surface, a
notice containing the name of the lode, the name of the locator
and the date of the discovery
"2. Within sixty days from the discovery, to sink a discovery shaft ten feet deep showing a well-defined crevice.
"3. To mark the surface boundaries by six posts, one at
each corner and one at the center of each side line, hewed or
marked on the side or sides in towards the claim.
"4. The disclosure of the lode in an open cut, cross cut or
tunnel suffices instead of a ten-foot shaft.

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

196 U. S.

"5. Within three months from date of discovery he must
file a location certificate with the county recorder giving a
proper description of the claim, and containing also the name
of the lode, the name of the locator, the date of the location,
the number of feet in length on each side of the center of the
discovery shaft and the general course of the lode." Mornson's Mining Rights, 11th ed., p. 59.
The issue of a patent for a lode claun in Colorado is therefore
not only a conclusive adjudication of the fact of the discovery
of the mineral vein, but also of compliance with these several
provisions of its statutes. The Supreme Court of that State
has decided that the order is not essential, providing no intervening rights have accrued. In Brewster v Shoemaker, 28
Colorado, 176, 180, it said.
"The order of time in which these several acts are performed
is not of the essence of the requirements, and it is immaterial
that the discovery was made subsequent to the completion of
the acts of location, provided only all the necessary acts are
done before intervening rights of third parties accrue. All
these other steps having been taken before a valid discovery,
and a valid discovery then following, it would be a useless and
idle ceremony, which the law does not require, for the locators
again to locate their claim and refile their location certificate
or file a new one."
And that has been the general doctrine. In 1 Lindley on
Mines, 2d ed., ยง330, the author says:
"The order in which the several acts required by law are to
be performed is non-essential, in the absence of intervening
rights. The marking of the boundaries may precede the discovery, or the discovery may precede the marking; and if both
are completed before the rights of others intervene, the earlier
act will inure to the benefit of the locator. But if the boundaries are marked before discovery, the location will date from
the time discovery is made."
In 1 Snyder on Mines, ยง 354, it is said.
"While the general rule is, as stated elsewhere in the fore-

MINING COMPANY v. TUNNEL COMPANY.
196 U. S.

349

Opimon of the Court.

going sections, that a location must rest upon a valid discovery,
yet a location otherwise good, with a discovery made after
location and before the intervention of adverse claims or the
creation of adverse rights, will validate the location from the
date of discovery, and generally from the first act towards
claim and appropriation-this by relation."
In Morrison's Mining Rights, 11th ed., p. 32"
"If a location be made before discovery, but is followed by
a discovery in the discovery shaft, before any adverse rights
intervene, such subsequent discovery cures the original defect
and the claim is valid."
In In re James Mitchell, 2 L. D 752, it was held by Commissioner McFarland that, "although prior to location no discovery of mineral was made within the ground claimed, upon
a subsequent discovery prior to application for patent the
location became good and sufficient, in the absence of any
adverse rights."
In Reins v Raunhezm, 28 L. D 526, 529, Secretary Hitchcock
declared that "it is immaterial whether the discovery occurred
before or after the location, if it occurred before the rights of
others intervened. Erunn v Perego et al., 93 Fed. Rep. 608."
Reference is made to the statement of Secretary Smith in
Etling v Potter, 17 L. D 424, 426, as though that announced
a different conclusion, that "a location certificate is but one
step, the last one, in the location of a mining claim." But a
location certificate is simply a certificate required by the local
statute or custom that some things have been done, and of
course it must come after those things have been done.
Again, in the same volume, pp. 545 and 546, NorthernPacific
Railroad Company v Marshall, he said.
"In the location of a mineral claim, placer or lode, the first
requirement of the law is a discovery (Sees. 2329 and 2320
Rev Stat.) All rights inuring to the benefit of the locators
are based upon this initial act. (Erhardt v. Boaro, 113 U. S.
537, United States v Iron Silver Minng Company, 128 U S.
673, O'Reilly v Campbell, 116 U S.418.) When, therefore, a

OCTOBER TERMI,

1904.

Opinion of the Court.

196 U. S.

legal location has been made on land returned as agricultural,
the slight presumption m favor of the return of the surveyor
general is, ipso facto, overcome, and the burden of proofs shifts
to the party attacking such mineral entry By such discovery
and location it is demonstrated that the return was erroneous,
and it would be trifling with physical facts to put the onus on
the locator to present further evidence until it is shown that,
as a matter of fact, he had no discovery"
But the question he was considering was simply as to the
burden of proof between one claiming land returned as agncultural land and one claiming a portion thereof, as an apparently legal location of a mineral claim.
In North Noonday Mintng Company v Orent Minsng Company, 1 Fed. Rep. 522, 531, Judge Sawyer, in charging the
jury, said.
"I instruct you further, that if a party should make a location in all other respects regular, and in accordance with the
laws, and the rules, regulations and customs in force at the
place at the time, upon a supposed vein, before discovering
the true vein or lode, and should do sufficient work to hold the
claim, and after such location should discover the vein or lode
within the limits of the claim located, before any other party
had acquired any rights therein, from the date of his discovery
his claim would be good to the limits of his claim, and the
location valid."
To the same effect was the charge of the same judge in
Jupiter Mnng Company v Bodie Mirnng Company, 11 Fed.
Rep. 666, 676.
In Cedar Canyon Min.ng Company v Yarwood, 27 Washington, 271, the Supreme Court of Washington ruled that:
"In the absence of intervening rights, the fact that mineral
is not discovered on a claim until after the notice of location
is posted and the boundary marked is immaterial, and, where
the discovery is the result of work subsequently done by the
locator, his possessory rights under his location are complete
from the date of such discovery Nevada Sierra Oil Co. v.

MINING COMPANY v. TUNNEL COMPANY
196 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Home Oil Co. [C. C.], 98 Fed. Rep. 673, Ernn v Perego, 35
C. C. A. 482, S. C., 93 Fed. Rep. 608, Jupiter Mn. Co. v
Bodie Consol. Min. Co. [C. C.], 11 Fed. Rep. 666, 1 Lindl.
Mines, ยง 335, and cases cited."
See especially Ermn v Perhgo, cited in this quotation, decided by the Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit. Tending in the same direction are Thompson v Spray, 72 California,
528, 533, Gregory v Pershbaker, 73 California, 109, 118, Tuolumne Cons. Minsng Co. v Mazer, 134 California, 583, 585.
But what is the meaning of the statute? Its language is
"no location of a mining claim shall be made until the discovery
of the vein or lode within the limits of the claim located."
Does that require that a discovery must be made before any
marking on the ground, especially when as under the Colorado
statutes several other steps in the process of location are prescribed, or does it mean that no location shall be considered
as complete until there has been a discovery? Bearing in
mind that the principal thought of the chapter is exploration
and appropriation of mineral, does it mean anything more
than that the fact of discovery shall exist prior to the vesting
of that right of exclusive possession which attends a valid
location?
This may be looked at in another aspect. Suppose a discovery is not made before the marking on the ground and posting of notice, but is then made, and it and all other statutory
provisions are complied with before the entry, which is an application for the purchase of the ground, of what benefit
would it be to the Government to require the discoverer to
repeat the marking on the ground, the posting of notice, and
other acts requisite to perfect a location? If everything has
been done which under the law ought to be done to entitle the
party to purchase the ground, wherein is the Government prejudiced if the precise order of those acts is not followed? Or, to
go a step further, suppose, on an application for a patent, an
adverse suit is instituted, and on the trial it appeared that the
plaintiff in that suit had made a discovery and taken all the

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinon of the Court.

196 U. S.

steps necessary for a location in the statutory order, although
not until after the applicant for the patent had done everything required by law, would there be any justice in sustaining the adverse suit and awarding the property to the plaintiff
therein on the ground that the applicant had not made any
discovery until the day after his marking on the ground, and
so the discovery did not precede the location?
These suggestions add strength to the concurring opinion
of three leading commentators on mining law, the general
trend of the rulings of the Department and decisions of the
courts, to the effect that the order in. which the several acts
are done is not essential, except so far as one is dependent on
another. Doubtless a locator does not acquire the right of
exclusive possession unless he has made a valid location, and
discovery is essential to its validity, but if all the acts prescribed by law are done, including a discovery, is it not sacrificing substance to form to hold that the order of those acts is
essential to the creation of the right? It must be remembered
that the discovery and the marking on the ground are not
matters of record put in paws, and if disputed m an adverse
suit or otherwise must be shown, as other like facts, by parol
testimony It must also be remembered that the certificate
of location required by the Colorado statutes need not be
verified. The one in this case was not. A locator might, if
so disposed, place the date of discovery before it was in fact
made, and at any time within three months prior to the filing
of the certificate.
But it has been said that the question has been decided by
this court adversely to these views, and Enterprise Mllining
Company v Rico-Aspen Mining Company, 167 U S. 108, and
Calhoun Mining Company v A3ax Mining Company, 182
U S. 499, are cited. In the former case the question was as
to when a vein discovered in a tunnel must be located, and in
the opinion (p. 112) we said.
"In order to make a location there must be a discovery; at
least, that is the general rule laid down in the statute. See-

MINING COMPANY v. TUNNEL COMPANY
196 U. S.

Opimon of the Court.

tion 2320 provides: 'But no location of a mining claun shall
be made until the discovery of the vein or lode within the
limits of the claim located.' The discovery in the tunnel is
like a discovery on the surface. Until one is made there is no
right to locate a clai in respect to the vein, and the time to
determine where and how it shall be located arises only upon
the discovery-whether such discovery be made on the surface or in the tunnel."
But that comes far short of meeting the question before us.
It is undoubtedly true that discovery is the initial fact. The
language of the statute makes that plain, and parties may not
go on the public domain and acquire the right of possession
by the mere performance of the acts prescribed for a location.
But the question here is whether, if there be both a discovery
and the performance of all the acts necessary to constitute a
location, the order in which these things take place is essential
to the right of exclusive possession which belongs to a valid
location?
In the Ajax case the contest was between mining claims on
the one hand and a mining claim and tunnel site on the other.
All the mining claims had passed to patent. The plaintiff in
error, who was defendant below, held the junior patent issued
upon a later entry, and the entries of plaintiff's claims were
made and the receiver's final receipts issued prior to the location of the tunnel site. In other words, the defendant, admitting that its right to a tunnel had not been established by
a location at the time of the entries of plaintiff's claims, sought
to invalidate them by proof that there had been no previous
discovery of mineral. This was refused by the trial court,
and we sustained the ruling, saying (p. 510)
"The patents were proof of the discovery and related back
to the date of the locations of the claims. The patents could
not be collaterally attacked. This has been decided so often
that a citation of cases is unnecessary"
An entry, sustained by a patent, is conclusive evidence that
at the time of the entry there had been a valid location and
VOL. oxcv-23

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opimon of the Court.

196 U. S.

such valid location implies as one of its conditions a discovery,
and the decision only went to the extent that this could not
be challenged by one who at the time of the entry had made
no location and therefore had acquired no tunnel right. There
is nothing m this ruling to conflict with the views we have
expressed.
It would seem, therefore, from this review of the authorities
as well as from the foregoing considerations that, as between
the Government and the locator, it is not a vital fact that there
-was a discovery of mineral before the commencement of any
of the steps required to perfect a location, and that if at the
time of the entry everything has been done which entitled the
party to an entry, to wit, a discovery and a perfect location,
the Government would not be justified in rejecting the application on the ground that the customary order of procedure had
not been followed. In other words, the Government does not,
by accepting the entry and confirming it by a patent, determine as to the order of proceedings prior to the entry, but only
that all required by law have been taken.
If, therefore, the entry and patent do not of themselves
necessarily determine the order of the prior proceedings, why
may not any one who clains rights anterior to the entry and
dependent upon that order show as a matter of fact what it
was? One not a party to proceedings between the Government and the patentee is concluded by the action of the Government only so far as that action involves a determination.
There is a determination by the fact of entry and patent that
there was prior to the entry a discovery and a location. Havmg been so determined third parties may be concluded thereby
But it may be said that when the time of a particular fact is
concluded by an adjudication or when an opportunity is presented for such an adjudication and not availed of, the time
as stated must be considered as settled, that when the plaintiff
applied for its patent if there was any question to be made by
the defendant of any statement of fact made in the location
certificate, or other record, it should have been challenged by

MINING COMPANY v. TUNNEL COMPANY
196 U. S.

Opimon of the Court.

an adverse suit. Failing to do so the fact must be considered
to be settled as stated. Undoubtedly, if in an adverse suit the
time of any particular matter is litigated, the judgment is conclusive, and if the date of discovery stated in the plaintiff's
location certificate had been challenged in an appropriate
action brought by the defendant and determined m favor of
the plaintiff, there could be now no inquiry So, when the
owner of a lode claim makes application for a patent and the
owner of another seeks to challenge the former's priority of
right on account of the date of discovery, it is his duty to bring
an adverse suit, and if he fails to do so that question will be as
to hin concluded. Such is the purpose and effect of the
adverse proceedings.
Is the same rule also applicable to a tunnel site? This opens
up the question of what are the rights and obligations of the
owner of a tunnel? And here these facts must be borne in
mind. The owner of a tunnel never receives a patent for it.
There is no provision in the statute for one, and none is in fact
ever issued. No discovery of mineral is essential to create a
tunnel right or to maintain possession of it. A tunnel is only
a means of exploration. As the surface is free and open to
exploration, so is the subsurface. The citizen needs no permit
to explore on the surface of government land for mineral.
Neither does he have to get one for exploration beneath the
surface for like purpose. Nothing is said in section 2323 as
to what must be done to secure a tunnel right. That is left to
the miners' customs or the state statutes, and the statutes of
Colorado provide for a location and the filing of a certificate
of location. When the tunnel right is secured the Federal
statute prescribes its extent-a tunnel 3,000 feet in length and
a right to appropriate the veins discovered in such tunnel to
the same extent as if discovered from the surface.'
If the tunnel right was vested before a discovery in the
plaintiff's lode claun the defendant ought to have the benefit
of it. The plaintiff's right does not antedate his discovery, at
least it does not prevail over any then existing right. But, it

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

196 U. S.

is said, the defendant did not adverse the plaintiff's application for a patent; that its omission so to do precludes it from
now asserting a right prior to the date of discovery named in
the certificate of location, just as a judgment m an adverse suit
involving the question of date would have been conclusive.
Is the owner of a tunnel who sinply seeks to protect his tunnel

and has as yet discovered no lode claim, bound to adverse an
application for the patent of a lode claim, the lode of which
was discovered on the surface? It is contended that the case
of Enterpmse Mining Company v Rico-Aspen Mimnng Company, supra, decides this question. But in that case the line
of the tunnel did not enter the ground of the lode claim but
ran parallel with and distant from it some 500 feet, and we
held that the mere possibility that m the line of the tunnel
might be discovered a vein which extended through the ground
of the distant lode clain did not necessitate adverse proceedmngs. Here the line of the tunnel runs directly through the
ground of the plaintiff, and the question is distinctly presented
whether, in order to protect the right to that tunnel, the defendant was called upon to adverse. Whatever might be the
propriety or advantage of such action, the statute does not
require it.
Sections 2325 and 2326 provide the manner of obtaining a
patent and for adverse proceedings. The first commences:
"A patent for any land claimed and located for valuable deposits may be obtained in the following manner." This, obviously, does not refer to easements or other rights, nor the
acquisition of title to land generally, but only to land claimed
and located for valuable deposits. Then, after prescribing
certain proceedings, the statute adds, "if no adverse claim
it shall be
shall have been filed with the register
assumed that the applicant is entitled to a patent
and that no adverse claim exists." The next section commences, "Where an adverse claim is filed during the period of
publication, it shall be upon oath of the person or persons
making the same, and shall show the nature, boundaries, and

MINING COMPANY v. TUNNEL COMPANY
196 U. S.

Opinon of the Court.

extent of such adverse claim." The section then authorizes
the commencement of an action by the adverse claimant and
a stay of proceedings in the Land Department pending such
action, and adds:
"After such judgment shall have been rendered, the party
entitled to the possession of the claim, or any portion thereof,
may, without giving further notice, file a certified copy of the
judgment roll with the register of the land office, together with
the certificate of the surveyor general that the requisite amount
of labor has been expended or improvements made thereon,
and the description required in other cases, and shall pay to
the receiver five dollars per acre for his claim, together with the
proper fees, whereupon the whole proceedings and the judgment roll shall be certified by the register to the Commissioner
of the General Land Office, and a patent shall issue thereon for
the claim, or such portion thereof as the applicant shall appear, from the decision of the court, to rightly possess. If it
appears from the decision of the court that several parties are
entitled to separate and different portions of the claim,. each
party may pay for his portion of the claim, with the proper
fees, and file the certificate and description by the surveyor
general, whereupon the register shall certify the proceedings
and judgment roll to the Commissioner of the General Land
Office, as in the preceding case, and patents shall issue to the
several parties according to their respective rights."
Reading these two sections together it is apparent that they
provide for a judicial determination of a controversy between
two parties contesting for the possession of "land claimed and
located for valuable deposits;" in other words, the decision of
a conflict between two mining claims, a decision which will
enable the Land Department without further investigation to
issue a patent for the land. A tunnel is not a mining claim,
although it has sometimes been inaccurately called one. As
we have seen, it is only a means of exploration. The owner
has a right to run it in the hope of finding a mineral vein.
When one is found he is called upon to make a location of the

OCTOBER TERAM,

1904.

Opinion of the Court.

196 U. S.

ground containing that vein and thus creates a mining claim,
the protection of which may require adverse proceedings. As
the claimant of the tunnel he takes no ground for which he is
called upon to pay, and is entitled to no patent. A judgment
in adverse proceedings instituted by hun (if such proceedings
were required) might operate to create a limitation on the
estate of the applicant for a patent to the mining claim, and
thus, as it were, engraft an exception on his patent. But
taking the whole surface the applicant is required to pay the
full price of five dollars per acre with no deduction because of
the tunnel. The statute provides for no reduction on account
of any tunnel. The tunnel owner might be said to have established his right to continue the tunnel through the lode claim
after patent, a right which he undoubtedly had before patent,
or at least before entry There is no statutory warrant for
placing in a patent to the owner of a lode claim any limitation
-of his title by a reservation of tunnel rights. In Deffeback v.
Hawke, 115 U S. 392, 406, we said.
"The position that the patent to the plaintiff should have
contained a reservation excluding from its operation all buildings and improvements not belonging to him, and all rights
necessary or proper to the possession and enjoyment of the
same, has no support in any legislation of Congress. The land
officers, who are merely agents of the law, had no authority to
insert in the patent any other terms than those of conveyance,
with recitals showing a compliance with the law and the conditions which it prescribed."
Other limitations on the full title granted by a patent for a
mineral claim are recognized in the statutes. Thus, by section 2339, which is found in the same chapter as the other sections quoted, the one devoted to "Mineral Lands and Mining
Resources," it is provided that:
"Whenever, by priority of possession, rights to the use of
water for mining, agricultural, manufacturing, or other purposes, have vested and accrued, and the same are recognized
and acknowledged by the local customs, laws, and the de-

MINING COMPANY v. TUNNEL COMPANY
196 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

cisions of courts, the possessors and owners of such vested
rights shall be maintained and protected in the same; and the
right of way for the construction of ditches and canals for the
purposes herein specified is acknowledged and confirmed."
But it has never been supposed that the owner of any of
these rights was compelled to adverse an application for a
patent for a mining claim, for they are not "mining claims."
The decisions on the question of the duty of the tunnel
owner to adverse the application of the lode claimant are not
harmonious. In Bodie Tunnel & Mining Company v Bechtel
Consolidated Msning Company, 1 L. D 594, Secretary Kirkwood held that a tunnel location was a mining claim and
necessitated adverse proceedings to protect its rights as against
an applicant for a lode claim (see also Back v Sierra Nevada
Con. Minsng Company, 2 Idaho, 386), while the Supreme
Court of Colorado in Corning Tunnel Company v Pell, 4 Colorado, 507, denied the right of a tunnel owner to adverse the
application for a patent for a lode claim where the lode had
not been discovered in the tunnel and the discovery shaft was
not on the line of the tunnel. Lindley (sec. 725), referring to
the decision in Enterprise Mining Company v Rico-Aspen
Mining Company, supra, said.
"In the light of this decision and the one which it affirms,
the rule may be thus formulated. Where a lode claimant applies for a patent to a location embracing a lode which has
previously been discovered in the tunnel, the tunnel claimant
will be compelled to adverse to protect his rights. A right in
the particular lode inures to the tunnel proprietor immediately
upon its discovery in the tunnel, which right is essentially
adverse to the lode applicant; but where there has been no
discovery in the tunnel, and it cannot be demonstrated that
the lode will be cut by the tunnel bore, there is no necessity
for an adverse claim."
Without further review of the conflicting authorities, it
would seem that whatever may be the propriety or advantage
of an adverse suit, one cannot be adjudged necessary when

OCTOBER TERMI, 1904.
Syllabus.

196 U. S.

Congress has not specifically required it. Until the discovery
of a lode or vein within the tunnel, its owner has only a possibility He is like an explorer on the surface. Adverse proceedings are called for only when one mineral claimant contests
the right of another mineral claimant.
If the defendant was not estopped by a failure to institute
-adverse proceedings then the trial court erred in striking out
the parts of the answer in reference to the date of plaintiff's
discovery, and the judgment of the Court of Appeals was right.
This conclusion avoids the necessity of any inquiry as to the
effect of the alleged estoppel, and the judgment of the Circuit
Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.

RAMSEY v. TACOMA LAND COMPANY
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF WASHINGTON.
No. 138. Submitted January 17,1905.-Decided January 30,1905.

In a remedial statute such as ยง 5, act of March 3, 1887, 24 Stat. 557, enabling
bona fide purchasers from railroad companies to perfect their titles by
purchase from the Government in case the land purchased was not included in the grant the term "citizens," in the absence of anything to
indicate the contrary, includes state corporations.
Whether a bona fide purchaser from a railroad company acts with reasonable promptness in availing of the provisions of the act of March 3, 1887,
is a question primarily for the Land Department and one attempting to
enter the land is charged with knowledge of the act, the railroad's title and,
if the deeds have been properly recorded, of the claims of the railroad's
grantee and subsequent assigns; and, under the circumstances of this
case, this court will not set aside the decision of the Land Department
allowing a bona fide purchaser to avail of the privilege of the act within
ten months after the lands had been stricken from the company's list
as the result of a decision affecting that and other lands rendered ten
years after the purchase from the railroad company, and during which
period all parties had considered the full equitable title to be m the railroad company and its grantees.

