OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Plaintiff m Error.

196 U. S.

HARDING v. ILLINOIS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.
No. 61. Submitted November 10, 190.

Decided December 19, 1904.

This court has no general power to review or correct the decisions of the
highest state court and in cases of this kind exercises a statutory jursdiction to protect alleged violations, in state decisions, of certain rights
arising under Federal authority; and if the question is not properly reserved in the state court the deficiency cannot be supplied in either the
petition for rehearing after judgment or the assignment of errors in this
court, or by the certification of the briefs which are not a part of the
record by the clerk of the state Supreme Court.
This court will not reverse the judgment of a state court holding an alleged
Federal constitutional objection waived, where the record discloses that
no authority was cited or argument advanced in its support and it is
clear that the decision was based upon other than Federal grounds and
the constitutional question was not decided.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr William H. Barnum for plaintiff m errorThe prohibitions of the Fourteenth Amendment refer to all
the instrumentalities of the State, to its judicial as well as to
its executive and legislative authorities. Chwago, Burlington
& Quvwy R. R. Co. v Chicago, 166 U S. 226, 233, Ex parte
Virgrnia, 100 U S. 339, 346, Yick Wo v Hopkins, 118 U S.
356.
It is sufficient if it appears from the record that a right
claimed under the Federal Constitution was specially set up
or clauned in the state court in such manner as to bring it to
the attention of the court. The right may be asserted by
pleadings, or on motion to set aside verdict and grant a new
trial, stating, as grounds therefor, that the several rulings of
the court in excluding proper evidence for the defendant, the
statute under which the proceedings were instituted, the verdict and the judgment based upon it were all contrary to the

HARDING v. ILLINOIS.
196 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff m Error.

constitutional provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment and
when the trial court overruled the motion for new trial, on
such grounds and entered judgment, it necessarily held adversely to the claims of Federal rights designated in said
stated grounds. Chwago, Burlington & Quincy R. R. Co. v
Chwago, 166 U S. 231.
Due process of law implies the right of the person affected,
not only to be present before the tribunal which pronounces
judgment, but also to be heard by testimony in proof of any
fact which would be a protection to him and his property, and
to have the right of controverting, by proof, every material
fact which bears on the question of right in the matter involved. The law of the land requires an opportunity for
trial, and there can be no trial if only one party is suffered
to produce his proofs. Cooley Const. Lim. 368, 369, Zeigler
v South &c. Ala. Ry. Co., 58 Alabama, 594, Calhounv Fletcher,
63 Alabama, 574, State v Billings, 55 Minnesota, 475, Hovey
v Elliott, 167 U S. 414, Windsor v McVezgh, 93 U S. 274,
McVezgh v United States, 11 Wall. 267
Plaintiff in error is deprived of his property without due
process of law by the judgment in this case, because he was
denied the right to prove by evidence offered in rebuttal that
he never reacquired, owned, was interested in, or- possessed
of, the property involved after he conveyed it away by the
deed of June, 1896.
As there was no averment in the declaration, nor any evidence whatever that plaintiff in error owned the property in
any year from 1879 to 1896, or that it was assessed in his name
during any one of those seventeen years, and as it was proved
by the record that forfeitures covering those years make up
all of the judgment affirmed, except about $125 of taxes of
1890, not due when this suit was begun, the entry and affirmance of the judgment without pleadings or proofs are severally
denials of due process of law whereby plaintiff in error is deprived of his property in violation of the several provisions
of the Fourteenth Amendment.

OCTOBER TERMI, 1904.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

196 U. S.

Any act of the legislature or action of the courts which
arbitrarily takes away the property of A and gives it to B,
or makes one person liable for the debts or acts of another,
deprives him of due process of law Camp v Rogers, 44
Connecticut, 291, Loan Assocuatwn v Topeka, 20 Wall. 663,
C., B. & Q. R. R. Co. v Chwago, 166 U S. 237
The only persons personally liable under section 230 for
taxes assessed from 1879 to 1896, were those owning the property in those several years at the times of such assessments.
Biggins v The People, 96 Illinois, 381, The People v Winkelman, 95 Illinois, 412, Greenwood v Town of La Salle, 137
Illinois, 230; § 230, ch. 120, Rev Stat. Illinois, 3 Starr &
Curtis Stat., 3501, 3502, §§ 58 and 59 of same chapter, 3
Starr & Curtis Stat. 3425, 3426.
The judgment therefore makes the plaintiff in error liable
for the debts and neglects of other persons. The rights of
plaintiff in error under the provisions of the Fourteenth
Amendment are violated by the judgment as entered and
affirmed, and by § 230, as construed, administered and enforced thereby
The action of the state court in basing its decision, opinion
and judgment upon an issue and point in no way raised or
hinted at -in the pleadings or the proof or in the contentions
of the parties, namely, that the general deed of June 10, 1896,
was colorable and dishonest, deprived plaintiff in error of all
right and opportunity to be heard in pleadings and proof on
such issue and was a taking of his property without due process
of law in violation of his constitutional rights.
This action of the state court, while at the same time
ignoring or sanctioning the rejection by the trial court of the
repeated offers of plaintiff in error to prove upon the trial that
he had not reacquired any right, title, interest or possession
of the property after making the deed and holding him liable
for taxes assessed against the same and forfeitures thereon
during the years 1897-1900, when he is shown to have had no
interest in the lot, was a deprivation without due process of

HARDING v. ILLINOIS.
196 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

law of his rights secured to him by the Fourteenth Amendment.
As the making and delivery of the deed were duly proved
and undisputed, and its validity and effect as a conveyance
were upheld by the trial court, and as no issue was presented
relating to its character or effect, the decision of the state
court adjudging that the deed was merely colorable, not made
for an honest purpose and invalid and inoperative as a conveyance of title, was and is a taking of property without due
process of law
The deed to the Chicago Real Estate, Loan & Trust Company carried to the grantee all title and interest of plaintiff m
error in or to the lot. Frey v Clifford, 44 California, 335,
Petttgrew v Dobblaur, 63 California, 396, Field v Huston, 21
Maine, 8, Bsrd v Bird, 40 Maine, 398, Fitzgeraldv Libby, 142
Massachusetts, 235, 7 N. E. Rep. 917, Harmon v James, 15
Mississippi (7 Smedes & M.), 111, 45 Am. Dec. 296, FirstNatwnal Bank v Hughes, 10 Mo. App. 7, Brown v Warren, 16
Nevada, 228, Brown v Wood, 6 Rich. Eq. 155, Sally v
Gunter, 13 Rich. Law, 72, Harvey v Edens, 69 Texas, 420;
Smith v Westall, 76 Texas, 509; Brigham v Thompson, 12
Tex. Civ App. 562, Barnes v Bartlett, 47 Indiana, 98, Patterson v Snell, 67 Maine, 559; Stewart v Cage, 59 Mississippi,
558, Barton's Lessee v Morris' Heirs, 15 Ohio, 408.
The Supreme Court of Illinois erred in its opinion and judgment that the point in relation to the constitutionality of the
statute had been waived by plaintiff in error, and was clearly
mistaken as to the supposed facts recited in its opinion as
tending to prove ownership in defendant subsequent to the
date of the deed. The items in the tax warrant for 1897 on
this lot were not charged to defendant and merged into a
judgment. No judgment is shown by the record either against
the lot or against him as owner. He did not appear and object to the tax as owner and it was error and denial of due
process of law to refuse, as the trial court did, to allow him
and his witnesses to proie that he did not.
VOL. cxcvi-6

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opimon of the Court.

196 U. S.

Mr Robert S. Iles for defendant in error.
MR.JUsTIcE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.

This case was submitted on briefs, together with motion to
dismiss or affirm. In support of the motion to dismiss the
position taken is that no Federal question was properly raised
in the state court, and therefore none is reviewable here.
The case was commenced in the Circuit Court of Cook County,
Illinois, to recover taxes for the years 1897, 1898, 1899 and
1900, on a block of land in the Elston Addition to the city of
Chicago. At the trial a jury was waived and, upon hearing, a
judgment was rendered in favor of the plaintiff for the sum
of $2,123.05. An inspection of the record shows that the
principal controversy was over the effect of a deed made by
Harding, the plaintiff in error, to the Chicago Real Estate
Loan and Trust Company, dated June 10, 1896, and recorded
July 2 of the same year, which conveyed, for the consideration
of five dollars, "all interest in the following described real estate
to wit: Any and all lands, of every kind and description,
claimed or owned by me in the State of Illinois, and all lots
and lands, of every description, in the city of Chicago, in which
I have any right, title or interest whatsoever, situated in the
State of Illinois," etc. It was the contention of the State that
this deed was too general in its terms to convey specific property, and was therefore insufficient notice to the taxing officer
of Cook County that the ownership of the property had changed.
The trial court admitted this deed in evidence subject to this
objection. Upon appeal to the Supreme Court of Illinois, of
this deed and other evidence in the case that court said.
"Conceding that the deed, if it stood alone, would overcome
the prma face case made by the plaintiff, the tax records of
Cook County for the year 1898, offered in evidence by the
People, tended to prove ownership in the defendant. The
items in the tax warrant for the year 1897 on this property
were charged to hun and merged into a judgment. He ap-

HARDING v. ILLINOIS.
196 U. S.

Opnon of the Court.

peared in the county court and objected to the validity of the
tax, but the judgment was rendered against him as owner.
This was subsequent to the date of the deed. His remedy as
to that tax, if levied unjustly against him, was by appeal.
Biggns v People, 106 Illinois, 270. As to that tax he clearly
could not, in this proceeding, attack the validity of the former
judgment. Moreover, after the date of the deed he received
the rents accruing from the property and deposited the money
so received to his personal account. Notwithstanding the
attempted explanation of that transaction, we think the weight
of the evidence is that he continued, after the pretended conveyance, to deal with the premises as his own.
"In the light of all the evidence in the case it is very clear
that the conveyance of June 10, 1896, was merely colorable,
and not executed with the honest purpose of conveying the
absolute ownership of the property to the grantee." 202
Illinois, 122.
Much of the elaborate brief of the counsel for plaintiff in
error is devoted to a discussion of alleged errors of the Supreme
Court of Illinois in deciding questions which it is alleged were
not properly made or in failing to give due weight to matters
of evidence in the record. This court has no general power to
review or correct the decisions of the highest state court, and
in cases of this character exercises a statutory jurisdiction to
protect alleged violations, in state decisions, of certain rights
arismg under Federal authority Central Land Co. v Lazdley,
159 U. S. 103, Marchant v PennsylvaniaR. R. Co., 153 U S.
380.
The proceeding was brought under section 230, chapter 120,
3 Starr & Cur. Stat. of Illinois, 3501. This section provides:
"In any such suit or trial for forfeited taxes, the fact that
real estate or personal property is assessed to a person, firm or
corporation, shall be pnma facze evidence that such person,
firm or corporation was the owner thereof, and liable for the
taxes for the year or years for which the assessment was made.
and such fact may be proved by the introduction in evidence

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

196 U. S.

of the proper assessment book or roll, or other competent
proof."
It is the contention of the plaintiff in error in this court that
this statute is unconstitutional, permitting assessment of those
who may not be the owners of the property assessed, and consequently a violation of the protection guaranteed by the
Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United
States. The adverse holding m the state court upon this
proposition, is the decision upon a Federal right which, it is
asserted, gives jurisdiction to review the judgment m this
court. The motion to dismiss raises the question whether this
objection was properly reserved in the state court. Upon the
constitutionality of this act the Supreme Court of Illinois said.
"It is also said that the foregoing section of the statute,
under which the action is brought, is unconstitutional, but no
authorities are cited or argument advanced m support of that
assertion. The point, if it can be so considered, has therefore
been waived."
In the petition for allowance of a writ of error, and the
assignment of errors in this court, it is alleged that the Supreme Court of the State erred in holding that the constitutional objection had been waived. And the plaintiff m error
appears to have put upon file here without leave the briefs and
petition for rehearing below, in which it is insisted there is
sufficient to show that the constitutional objection was not
abandoned. But neither the petition for a rehearing or petition for writ of error in the state court after judgment, or assignments of error in this court, can supply deficiencies in the
record of the state court, if any exist. Simmeran v Nebraska,
116 U S.54. Nor does the certification of the briefs by the
clerk of the state supreme court, which are no part of the
record, help the matter. Zadig v Baldunn, 166 U S. 485.
We are to try the case upon the duly certified record, legally
made in the state court, and upon which its decision rests.
Powell v Brunswnck County, 150 U S.433, 439.
An examination of the record discloses that the assignment

HARDING v. ILLINOIS.
196 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of errors in the Supreme Court of Illinois does not directly
raise the point under consideration. It is referred to in the
following language of the assignment of errors:
"The finding and judgment of the court were erroneous for
the several reasons stated in the points filed in support of the
motion to set aside the finding and grant a new trial."
If we may look to the motion filed in the trial court we find
some thirty points assigned as grounds for a new trial. Those
which may have application to Federal constitutional questions are found in paragraphs 26 and 27, which are:
"26. The statute under which this action is prosecuted is
contrary to the Constitution of the United States.
"27 This proceeding under said statute is a taking of property without due process of law and otherwise unconstitutional."
The assertion that a judgment rests upon an unconstitutional state statute, the validity of which has been drawn in
question and sustained, presents one of a class of cases which
may be reviewed here. In the analysis of section 709 of the
Revised Statutes of the United States, in Columbia Water
Power Co. v Columbia Street Railway &c. Co., 172 U S.475,
488, it was pointed out that cases of the character of the one
now under consideration come within the second class of those
provided for in the section. "Where is drawn in question the
validity of a statute of, or an authority exercised under, any
State on the ground of their being repugnant to the Constitution, treaties or laws of the United States, and the decision is
in favor of their validity"
It has been frequently held that in cases coming within this
class less particularity is required in asserting the Federal right
than in cases in the third class, wherein a right, title, privilege
or immunity is claimed under the United States, and the decision is against such right, title, privilege or immunity In the
latter class the statute requires such right or privilege to be
"specially set up and claimed." Under the second class it
may be said to be the result of the rulings in this court that if

OCTO3ER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

196 U. S.

the Federal question appears in the record in the state court
and was decided, or the decision thereof was necessarily involved in the case, the fact that it was not specially set up
will not preclude the right of review here. Columbia Water
Power Co. v Columbia Street Railway &c. Co., 172 U S. 475,
and cases cited on p. 488. Nevertheless, it is equally well
settled that the right of review, dependent upon the adverse
decision of a Federal question, exists only in those cases wherein
a decision of the question involved was brought m some proper
manner to the attention of the court and decided, or it appears
that the judgment rendered could not have been given without
deciding it. Fowler v Lamson, 164 U S.252, Clarke v. McDade, 165 U S. 168, 172. In one of the latest utterances of
this court upon the question under consideration, Capital City
Dairy Co. v Ohio, 183 U S. 238, 248, Mr. Justice White, delivering the opinion of the court, said.
"It is well settled that this court, on error to a state court,
cannot consider an alleged Federal question, when it appears
that the Federal right thus relied upon had not been by adequate specification called to the attention of the state court
and had not been by it considered, not being necessarily involved in the determination of the cause. Green Bay & Miss.
Canal Co. v Patten Paper Co., 172 U S. 52, 67, Oxley Stave Co.
v Butler Co., 166 U S. 648, 654, 655, and cases cited. Now,
the only possible support to the claim that a Federal question
on the subject under consideration was raised below, was the
general statement in the answer to which we have already
adverted, that 'this proceeding is in violation of the Constitution of the United States.' Nowhere does it appear that at
any time was any specification made as to the particular clause
of the Constitution relied upon to establish that the granting
of relief by quo warranto would be repugnant to that Constitution, nor is there anything in the record which could give rise
even to a remote inference that the mind of the state court
was directed to or considered this question. On the contrary,
it is apparent from the record that such a contention was not

HARDING v. ILLINOIS.
196 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

raised in the state court. Thus, although at the request of
the defendant below, the plaintiff in error here, the state court
certified as to the existence of the Federal questions which
had been called to its attention and which it had decided, no
reference was made in the certificate to the claim of Federal
right we are now considering."
The only authority called to the attention of this court by
counsel for plaintiff in error as supporting the view that a
Federal question was properly raised in this case is Chicago,
Burlington & Quincy R. R. Co. v Chicago, 166 U S. 226, in
which case it was contended that a statute of the State of
Illinois, under which condemnation proceedings were had, was
in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution
of the United States. In that case it was distinctly asserted,
in the motion for a new trial in the trial court, that the statute
and rulings of the court and the verdict and judgment based
thereon were contrary to the Fourteenth Amendment, declaring that no State should deprive any person of life, liberty or
property without due process of law nor deny to any person
within its limits the equal protection of the laws. In the assignment of errors in the Supreme Court of the State it was
distinctly reasserted that these Federal rights had been denied
by the proceedings in the trial court, and it was held in this
court that while the Supreme Court of Illinois did not in its
opinion expressly refer to the Federal constitutional rights asserted, the same were necessarily included in the judgment of
the court and therefore the case was reviewable here. But
how stands the present case ? It is distinctly stated by the
Supreme Court of Illinois (whose judgment is alone reviewable here), in the passage above quoted from its opinion, that
no authorities were cited nor argument advanced in support
of the assertion that the statute was unconstitutional, and that
the point, if it could otherwise be considered, was deemed to
be waived. If we look to the motion for a new trial, referred
to in general terms in the assignment of errors when the case
was taken to the Supreme Court of Illinois, we find the only

OCTOBER TERAI, 1904.
Opunon of the Court.

196 U. S.

reference to a Federal constitutional question to be in paragraphs 26 and 27, above quoted from the motion for new trial
in the court of original jurisdiction. Paragraph 26 simply
states that the statute is contrary to the Constitution of the
United States, without calling attention to the provision of
that instrument whose protection is denied to the plaintiff in
error, and is clearly msufficient. Farney v Towle, 1 Black,
350. Paragraph 27 alleges that the statute takes the property without due process of law, and is therefore unconstitutional. If this vague objection (§27) may be taken as assertmg a claim of right under the Federal Constitution, yet in the
Supreme Court of Illinois, so far as the record discloses, there
was neither authority cited nor argument advanced in support of the constitutional objection. There is nothing to prevent a party from waiving a Federal right of this character if
he chooses to do so, either in express terms or as a necessary
implication from his manner of proceeding in the cause. It is
clear from the opinion cited that the state court based its decision upon other than Federal grounds and did not decide
the constitutional question sought to be made here.
If the question was necessarily decided, notwithstanding
the failure or refusal of the state court to expressly and in
terms pass upon the matter, the case might be brought here.
But in this case the state court expressly disclaims decision
of the constitutional question, because it was not presented
by proper proceedings. Our view of this record is that in so
holding the state court did not err to the prejudice of the
plaintiff in error.
Writ of error dismssed.

