COURTNEY r PRADT.
196 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

COURTNEY v. PRADT.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.
No. 93. Argued December 9,1904.-Decided January 3, 1905.
Under ยง 5 of the judiciary act of March 3, 1891, the question of jurisdiction
to be certified is the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court as a court of the
United States and not in respect of its general authority ai a judicial

tribunal.
The certificate of the lower court is an absolute prerequisite to the exercise
of power here unless the record clearly and unequivocally shows that the
court sends up for consideration the single and definite question of its
jurisdiction as a court of the United States.
When a case has been removed into the Circuit Court of the United States
on the ground of diversity of citizenship, that court is entitled to pass
on all questions arising, including the question of jurisdiction over the
subject matter m the state courts or the sufficiency of mesne process to
authorize the recovery of personal judgment.
The right to remove for diversity of citizenship, as given by a constitutional
act of Congress, cannot be taken away or abridged by state statutes and
the case being removed the Circuit Court has power to so deal with the
controversy that the party will lose nothing by his choice of tribunals.

MERRIT B. ATWATER, a citizen of Wisconsin, and William C.
Atwater, a citizen of Illinois, were partners, and m 1898

Merrit B. died testate, having appointed Louis A. Pradt,
likewise a citizen of Wisconsin, his executor. The will was
duly admitted to probate m Wisconsin, and Pradt duly qualified as executor, and has been and is acting as such. William
C. Atwater was one of the legatees under the will.
The Atwater Land and Lumber Company was a corporation

of Wisconsin, engaged in buying, owmng, holding and selling
real estate m Kentucky, and Merrit B. Atwater, at the time of
his death, owned stock m that corporation, on which a dividend was declared August 30, 1901, which amounted to
$4,757.37 W C. Atwater was not a stockholder at the time
of the declaration of the dividend, and had not been since. 1893.

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Counsel for Parties.

196 U. S.

Courtney, a citizen of Kentucky, brought suit m the Circuit
Court of Powell County, Kentucky, against Pradt, executor,
and William C. Atwater, and procured a general order of attachment, under which the sheriff summoned the company to
answer as garnishee by delivery of a copy of the attachment
to the person designated by the company as its agent upon
whom process could be executed, as required by the statutes
of Kentucky in that behalf. There was no personal service on
Pradt, executor, or on William C. Atwater, but a warning
order was entered pursuant to statute.
Pradt, as executor, and William C. Atwater, filed their petition and bond m the state court for the removal of the cause to
the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District
of Kentucky on the ground of diversity of citizenship, and it
was removed accordingly Pradt, executor, and William C.
Atwater, entering their appearance in the Circuit Court for
that purpose only, moved the court to dismiss the case "for
want of jurisdiction to try same." On the same day, Pradt,
executor, filed a special demurrer, assigning as causes, nter
alha, that the court had no jurisdiction of the person, or of the
subject matter. And on that day plaintiff moved to remand,
no reasons being given. The Circuit Court overruled the motion to remand, sustained the motion to dismiss and the demurrer, and entered judgment dismissing the suit for want of
jurisdiction. Two opinions were delivered, because further
argument was permitted, and both are in the record. No
certificate of the question of jurisdiction was applied for or
granted, but an appeal was allowed to this court, which was
argued m due course, together with a motion to dismiss.
Mr William Bullitt Dzxon and Mr Alexander Pope Humphrey for appellant.
Mr Neal Brown and Mr Louss A. Pradt, with whom Mr
Edwin C Brandenburg and Mr R. D Hill were on the brief,
for appellees.

COURTNEY v. PRADT.
196 U. S.

91

Opmion of the Court.

after making the foregoing
statement of facts, delivered the opinion of the court.
MR. CHIEF JUsTIcE FULLER,

It appears from the opinions of the Circuit Court, to which
we properly may refer, Loeb v Trustees, 179 U. S. 472, that the
court held that the state court had no jurisdiction so far as
William C. Atwater was concerned unless it had jurisdiction
as against the foreign executor of his deceased partner; that
the suit must be treated as if against the foreign executor
alone; and that it could not be maintained against the foreign
executor in the state, court, nor in the Federal court. And
further that the court was not bound to remand the case that
the state court might determine that question.
The appeal was taken directly to this court, and cannot be
maintained unless the case comes within the first of the classes
named in section five of the judiciary act of March 3, 1891,
which gives an appeal or writ of error direct "'in any case in
which the jurisdiction of the court is in issue, in such cases the
question of jurisdiction alone shall be certified to the Supreme
Court from the court below for decision."
It is settled that the question-of jurisdiction thus to be
certified is the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court as a court of
the United States, and not in respect of its general authority
as a judicial tribunal. Blythe v Hinckley, 173 U S. 501,
Mexwan Central Railway Company v Eckman, 187 U S. 429;
Loussville Trust Company v Knott, 191 U S. 225, Bache v
Hunt, 193 U S. 523.
And the general rule is that the certificate is an absolute
prerequisite to the exercise of jurisdiction here. Maynard v
Hecht, 151 U. S. 324. Although we have recogmzed excepitions to this rule when the explicit terms of the decree, or
even of the order allowing the appeal, might properly be
considered as equivalent to the formal certificate. Huntington
v Laidley, 176 U. S. 668, Arkansas v Schlierholz, 179 U S.
598.
But, as said by Mr. Justice Gray m Huntington v Laidley,

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

196 U. S.

"the record must distinctly and unequivocally show that the
court below sends up for consideration a single and definite
question of jurisdiction," that is, of the jurisdiction of the
court as a court of the United States.
No such state of case is exhibited by this record. There is
no certificate nor any equivalent therefor. No single and
definite issue as to the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court as a
Federal court is presented.
The case was dismissed for want of jurisdiction over it, as
a suit against a foreign executor, in the courts of Kentucky.
The court had power to so adjudicate. When a case has been
removed into the Circuit Court on the ground of diversity of
citizenship, that court is entitled to pass on all questions arising, including the question of jurisdiction over the subject
matter in the state courts, or the sufficiency of the service of
mesne process to authorize the recovery of personal judgment.
Goldey v Morning News, 156 U S. 518, Wabash Western Railway Company v Brow, 164 U S. 271, De Lima v B'tdwell, 182
U S. 1, Conley v Mathwson Alkali Works, 190 U S. 406. It
is true that in this case a motion to remand was made, but
there was nothing to indicate that it rested on the contention
that there was a lack of jurisdiction m the Federal courts as
contradistinguished from the state courts. It did not in terms
put in issue the power of the Circuit Court as a court of the
United States to hear and determine the case, and we cannot
be called on to say that there may not have been other grounds
for the motion, or to attempt to eliminate every other ground
for the purpose of bringing the case within the first clause of
section five.
We do not regard the objection now urged that the suit was
in equity, and as such not cogmzable by the Circuit Court, as
open to consideration on this record by direct appeal, but if it
were, it is unavailing on the question of power.
The principal action was an action at law If under existing statutes of Kentucky the process of attachment or garnishment against non-residents was equitable in form, as is con-

SMALLEY v. LAUGENOUR.
196 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

tended, this could not cut off the right of removal where diversity of citizenship existed. The right to remove given by a
constitutional act of Congress cannot be taken away or abridged
by state statutes, and the case being removed, the Circuit
Court had power to so deal with the controversy that the
party could lose nothing by his choice of tribunals. Cowley
v Northern Pacific Railroad Company, 159 U S. 569. In our
opinion the appeal was improvidently prosecuted directly to
thia court, and it must, therefore, be
Dinsmised.

SMALLEY v. LAUGENOUR.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF WASHINGTON.
No. 97. Submitted November 28,190.-Decided January 3,1905.
The rights of a bankrupt to exempt property are those given by the statutes
of the States, and if such exempt property is not subject to levy and sale
under those statutes, it cannot be made to respond under the Federal
bankrupt act.
A creditor may contest the bankrupt's claim to exemption m the bankruptcy court, or may invoke the supervision and revision of the Circuit
Court of Appeals, but, failing to do that, cannot, unless the order setting the bankrupt's exemption apart be absolutely void, question its validity in another proceeding in the state court.
Nor can the judgment of the state court following the order of the bankruptcy court and giving effect to the exemption be reviewed by this court
on writ of error under ยง 709, Rev. Stat., on the ground that plaintiff in
error was denied a title, right, privilege or immunity, under the Constitution or authority of the United States specially set up or claimed in
the state court.

THIs was an action of ejectment commenced in the Superior
Court of Lincoln County, Washington, by A. F Smalley and
F McLellan against George F Laugenour and Jane Laugenour
(with two others, who subsequently ceased to be parties) to
recover possession of certain real estate situated in that county,

