OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Syllabus.

196 U. S.

to be exercised on the very day Some time must be allowed
for acquiring knowledge of the situation and determining the
course of action. The plaintiff was as fully charged with
knowledge of this act of 1887 as the land company Upon
the records of the county were the deeds from the railroad to
the land company and from the latter to its grantees. So she
acted with knowledge both of the law and the facts, and is not
in a position now to complain of the action of the Land Dcpartment. We are not justified in setting aside the decision
of the Land Department and holding that it erred in awarding
to the land company the privilege which the statute, without
any express limitation of time, gives to it.
We see no error in the record, and the judgment of the
Supreme Court of Washington is
Affirmed.

MIUNSEY v. CLOUGH.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW
HAMPSHIRE.
No. 126. Argued January 13,1905.-Decided January 30, 19W.
Proceedings in interstate rendition are summary; strict common law evidence is not necessary, and the person demanded has no constitutional
right to a hearing. The governor's warrant for removal is sufficient
until the presumption of its legality is overthrown by contrary proof in
a legal proceeding to review his action.
The indictment found m the demanding State will not be presumed to be
void on habeas corpus proceedings m the State in which the demand is
made if it substantially charges an offense for which the person demanded
may be returned for trial.
Where there is no doubt that the person demanded was not m the demanding State when the crime was committed and the demand is made on the
ground of constructive presence only he will be discharged on habeas
corpus, but he will not be discharged when there is merely contradictory
evidence as to his presence or absence, for habeas corpus is not the proper
proceeding to try the question of alibi or any question as to the guilt or
innocence of the accused.

MUNSEY v CLOUGI.
196 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr Edward A. Lane for plaintiff in error"
The record fails to show this relator a fugitive from justice
as to all of the several crines with which she was charged,
hence the rendition warrant was illegally issued. A person
cannot be a fugitive from justice when not personally present
in the State where the offense is alleged to be committed.
North Carolinav Hall, 28 L. R. A. 289, and cases cited, People
v Hyatt, 172 N. Y 176.
As Massachusetts failed to show relator to be a fugitive from
justice as to the three offenses alleged to be committed by her,
it is not entitled to ask New Hampshire to comply with its domand that it be allowed to take relator there to try her for said
three offenses. A demand that relator be surrendered to be
tried and punished for three offenses is not a demand that she
be surrendered to be tried and punished for two.
In this case Massachusetts is not seeking to extradite this
relator for the alleged commission of two crimes as to which
she may be a fugitive from justice, but is also seeking in this
proceeding to extradite her for a crime as to which it is admitted she is not such fugitive, and hence cannot be extradited.
Lascelles v Georgia, 148 U S. 537, Commonwealth v Wright,
158 Massachusetts, 149. Interstate rendition does not depend
on comity between the States but on the provisions of cl. 2,
§ 4, Art. IV of the Constitution.
The evidence contained in the requisition papers (lid not
authorize a finding by the governor that the relator was a
fugitive from justice as to any one of the three crimes charged
against her, consequently the rendition warrant was illegally
issued. Ex parte Reggel, 114 U S. 64-9, distinguished. As to
two of the offenses the statute of limitations had run and concealment of the crime does not prevent the running of the
statute. State v Nute, 63 N. H. 80.
The so-called copy of an affidavit which accompanied the
requisition papers was incompetent evidence to be considered

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

196 U. S.

by the governor ol the question whether relator was a fugitive
from justice.
If a foreign affidavit was admissible evidence it should have
been produced, as it was the best evidence. Even then the
original affidavit on file would not constitute such a judicial
proceeding, or any part of such a judicial proceeding, nor such
part of the record of the court as is contemplated by § 1,
Art. IV, of the Constitution. Baltsmore &c. Ry. Co. v Trustee
&c., 91 U S. 127, 130; Roanoke Land &c. Co. v Hickson, 80
Virginia, 589; D'Arcy v Ketchum, 11 How 165, Gibson v
Tilton, 17 Am. Dec. 306.
The copy of the indictment was not competent evidence to
show that the person indicted was within the State. Rev L
Stat. §5278, Ex pare Sweartngen, 13 S. Car. 74, 79; Re John
Leary, 10 Benedict, 197, distinguished, and see Re Jackson., 2
Flippen, 183, People v Hyatt, 172 N. Y 176, 189; Ex parte
Reggel, 114 U S. 651, Roberts v Reilly, 116 U. S. 80, distinguished.
No citizen should be arrested and exiled from a State on
evidence which does not carry with it in such State the penal
consequences of false swearing.
The refusal of the governor to hear the relator at the time
and under the circumstances in which she appeared before
him, was not "due process of law" and deprived her of her
legal rights. Spear on Extradition, 340; Anderson's Dictionary of Law under "Habeas Corpus", State v Clough, 71 N. H.
594, In re Cook, 49 Fed. Rep. 833, Hovey v Elhott, 167 U. S.
409; Roller v Holly, 176 U S. 398, 409.
Under the organic and statutory law of the United States
the relator was illegally restrained of her liberty and the rendering of judgment against her violated her constitutional
rights. § 1, ch. 263, Pub. Stat. N. H.
The constitutional principles applicable to the preservation
of personal liberty should be at least as strenuously applied
when there is occasion therefor, as in the case of right to property East Kingston v Darius Towle, 48 N. H. 57, Opinion

MUNEY r' CLOUGI.
196 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

of the Justices, 66 N. H. 629; Carter v. Colby, 71 N. H. 230;
Slate v Jackman, 69 N. H. 318, 330.
Mr Edunn G. Eastman and Mr George A. Sanderson for
defendant in error, submitted.
At common law the time of the commission of an offense
need not be proved as alleged. Ledbetter v United States, 170
U S: 606, Commonwealth v Sego, 125 Massachusetts, 210;
Commonwealth v Brown, 167 Massachusetts, 144. This rule
of law as to time should have the same application in requisition proceedings as in the trial of the case. Rev Laws,
Mass., ch. 218, § 20. The evidence submitted to the governor of New Hampshire, taken as a whole, should be construed
to mean that the defendant fled from Massachusetts after
the commission of the last offense charged in the indictment.
It is sufficient to justify the extradition of the plaintiff in
error if it appears that she is a fugitive from the State asking
her return as to one crime committed in the State. Lascelles
v Georgm, 148 U S. 537, Commonwealth v Wmght, 158 Massachusetts, 149. If the indictment upon which this proceeding
is based had contained only the first count, but it appeared
that another indictment containing the other counts was pending in the same court, that fact would not prevent the rendition
of the prisoner. The governor was justified in finding that she
was a fugitive with reference to the first two counts in the
indictment. On that question the relator is entitled to submit
evidence and be heard, and the justice before whom the habeas
corpus proceedings were returned may review the action of the
governor in this respect. The governor's finding that the
relator is a fugitive is not conclusive upon the court on habeas
corpus. Church, Habeas Corpus, § 474a; 2 Moore Extradition,
§ 640; Spear Extradition, 391, Hartman v Aveline, 63 Indiana, 344, Jones v Leonard, 50 Iowa, 106, In re Mohr, 73
Alabama, 503.
An indictment is sufficient for the purpose of extradition
proceedings when it is framed in accordance with the technical

OCTOBER TERM,

1904.

Opinion of the Court.

196 U. S.

rules of pleading of the State within which it is found, and
where the offense was committed. 8 Ency of P1. and Pr. 816,
Commonwealth v Hills, 10 Cush. 530; Commonwealth v Costello, 120 Massachusetts, 358, Carlton v Commonwealth, 5
Met. 532, Commonwealth v Jacobs, 152 Massachusetts, 276,
Benson v Commonwealth, 158 Massachusetts, 164.
There is no prescribed form in which the evidence on rendition proceedings must be submitted and in this case it w'as
sufficient. Rev Stat. § 5278, State v Clough, 71 N. H. 594.
When a proper warrant has been issued the burden of slowing that the prisoner has not fled or is not a fugitive from
justice rests upon the prisoner in habeas corpus proceedings.
State v Justus, 24 Minnesota, 237 As to who is a fugitive,
see Roberts v Reilly, 116 U S. 80; M11atter of Voorhees, 32
N. J L. 141, Ex parte Reggel, 114 U S. 642.
The governor in determining the question as to whether
the defendant is a fugitive from justice may receive evidence
that fails to meet the requirements of legal proof if he deems
it advisable. The policy of Congress and the legislature is
to permit the chief magistrate to deternine the question upon
such proof as seems to him worthy of credit. State v Clough,
71 N. H. 594, Roberts v Reilly, 116 U S. 80; In re Cook, 49
Fed. Rep. 833.
On the indictment, the statement of the district attorney
and the request of the governor (;f Massachusetts, the governor of New Hampshire would have been justified in finding
that the relator was a fugitive from justice and in ordering her
return.
MR.

JUSTICE PECKHAM

delivered the opinion of the court.

This was a proceeding on habeas corpus in a state court of
New Hampshire to obtain the discharge of the plaintiff in
error from arrest under a warrant given by the governor of
that State, directing the return of the plaintiff in error to the
Commonwealth of Massachusetts, as a fugitive from justice.

MUNSEY 'v CLOUGH.
196 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Upon the hearing the state court refused to discharge the
plaintiff i error, the order of refusal was affirmed by the
Supreme Court, and she has brought the case here for review
(On a former proceeding in Supreme Court, see 71 N. H. 594.)
The proceedings before the governor of New Hampshire to
obtain the warrant of arrest were taken under section 5278 of
the Revised Statutes of the United States, renacting the
statute approved February 12, 1793, 1 Stat. 302, 3 U S.
Comp. Stat. 3597, relating to the arrest of persons as fugitives
from justice, under clause 2 of section 2 of Article IV of the
Constitution of the United States.
The papers before the governor of New Hampshire consisted of a copy of an indictment of the plaintiff in error, found
in Massachusetts on the second Monday of February, 1902,
it contained three counts, and charged the plaintiff in error
with uttering and publishing as true a certain forged instruinent, purporting to be a will, well knowing the same to be
forged. The first count alleged that the crime was committed
on the twenty-eighth of February, 1895, at Cambridge, in the
county of Middlesex, in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts;
and it also alleged that since the commission of the offense the
plaintiff had not been usually or publicly a resident in that
Commonwealth.
The second count averred the uttering, etc., to have been
on the seventeenth day of May, in the year 1895, in the same
place, and the indictment had the same averment as to the
non-residence of the plaintiff in error as contained in the first
count.
The third count averred the uttering at the same place as
that named in the other two counts, but laid the date as the
twentieth day of November, 1901. There was also before the
governor of New Hampshire an application, dated the twentysixth of February, 1902, signed by George A. Sanderson, district attorney for the Northern District of Middlesex, to the
governor of Massachusetts, requesting a requisition from him
upon the governor of New Hampshire for the extradition of
vor.. OxCv-24

OOTOBEII

'TERM, 1904.

Opinion of the Court.

196 U. S.

the plaintiff in error, who, as stated in the application, stood
charged by indictment with the crime of uttering forged wills,
committed in the county of Middlesex (on the days stated in
the indictment), and who, to avoid prosecution, had fled from
the jurisdiction of the Commonwealth and was a fugitive from,
justice, and was within the jurisdiction of the State of New
Hampshire. It was also stated in the application that the
indictment was not found by the grand jury until the February sitting of the Superior Court in the year 1902. There was
also before the governor of New Hampshire a copy of what
purported to be an affidavit of one Whitney, the original of
which was used before the governor of Massachusetts, to obtain
the requisition. It is short, and is as follows:
"Commonwealth of Massachusetts,
Middlesex.
"I, Jophanus H. Whitney, of Medford, in the county of
Middlesex and said Commonwealth, on oath depose and say
that Martha S. Munsey, who stands charged by indictment
with the crime of uttering forged wills, as is more fully set forth
in the papers hereto annexed, has fled from the limits of said
Commonwealth and is a fugitive from justice. And I further
depose that at the time of the commission of said crmime she
was in the State of Massachusetts, in the county of Middlesex
of said Commonwealth, and that at the same time and previous
thereto she was a resident of Cambridge in the said county of
Middlesex, that she fled from said Commonwealth of Massa-.
!chusetts on or about the fourth day of November, A. D 1901,
that she is not now within the limits of the Commonwealth,
'but, as I have reason to believe, is now in Pittsfield, in the State
'of New Hampshire. The grounds of my knowledge are that
I have interviewed her since the fourth of November last ii
Pittsfield, New Hampshire, where she was living with her
2husband during the last week January last.
"JOPHANUS H. WHITNEY."
There was also a certificate of the district attorney for the

MUNSEY v CLOU(UII.
196 U. S.

Opimon of the Court.

Northern District of Middlesex, that the offense charged against
the plaintiff in error is a felony within that Commonwealth,
and that application for the arrest and return of the fugitive
had not been sooner made because the indictment was not
found by the grand jury until February, 1902.
The governor of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts having
given "the requisition applied for, the papers above mentioned
were presented to the governor of New Hampshire, and a request made that he should issue his warrant of arrest to take
the plaintiff in error back to the Commonvealth of Massachusetts, as a fugitive from. justice, and for the purpose of being
tried on the indictment referred to. The counsel for the plaintiff in error appeared before the governor and stated they
desired a hearing before him before the warrant of arrest
should be granted. This hearing was refused, and the governor then granted the warrant for the arrest and return of the

plaintiff in error to the Commonwealth of Massachusetts as
a fugitive from justice. In that warrant it was provided that
the plaintiff in error should be afforded an opportunity to sue
out a writ of habeas corpus before being delivered over to the
authorities of Massachusetts. She availed herself of that right
and sued out such writ, and upon its return the plaintiff in
error made several objections to the execution of the governor's warrant, and alleged the insufficiency of the papers to
authorize the granting of the same. At the close of the hearing the counsel for plaintiff in error moved that she be discharged for the reasons stated in the motion, the motion was
denied, subject to the objection and exception of the plaintiff
in error. The record then shows the following:
"The court thereupon ordered that the relator proceed to
introduce evidence upon the question whether she was in fact
a fugitive from justice. This the relator's counsel declined
to do, upon the ground that such action, on their part, would
constitute a waiver of their right to object to the refusal of
the governor to grant a hearing upon this question of fact.
"The court then directed that the counsel for the relator

OCTOBIER 'rERM,

1904.

Opinion of the Court.

196 U. S.

state whether the relator waived the right to then, or at any
future time, introduce further evidence upon this, or any question of fact, and counsel for relator declared that she did
waive that right.
"No evidence was offered by the relator either upon the
question whether the relator was a fugitive from justice, or
upon any other question of fact, other than as above stated."
The question of the legality of the detention of the plaintiff
in error is thus brought before the court. The proceedings in
matters of this kind before the governor are summary in their
nature. The questions .before the governor, under the section
of the Revised Statutes, above cited, are whether the person
demanded has been substantially charged with a crine, and
whether he is a fugitive from justice. The first is a question
of law and the latter is a question of fact, which the governor,
upon whom the demand is made, must decide upon such
evidence as is satisfactory to hin. Strict comnon law evidence is not necessary The statute does not provide for the
particular kind of evidence to be produced before him, nor
how it shall be authenticated, but it must at least be evidence
which is satisfactory to the muid of the governor. Roberts v
Reilly, 116 U S. 80, 95. The person demanded has no constitutional right to be heard before the governor on either
question, and the statute provides for none. To hold otherwise would in many cases render the constitutional provision,
as well as the statute passed to carry it out, wholly useless.
The governor, therefore, committed no error in refusing a
hearing. The issuing of the warrant by him, with or without
a recital therein that the person demanded is a fugitive from
justice, must be regarded as sufficient to justify the removal,
until the presumption in favor of the legality and regularity
of the warrant is overthrown by contrary proof in a legal proceeding to review the action of the governor. Roberts v
Reilly, supra; Hyatt v Cock-ran, 188 U S. 691.
After the decision of the governor and the issuing of the
warrant the plaintiff in error sued out this writ of habeas corpus

MUNSEY e CLOUGH.
196 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

for the purpose of reviewing his action.

The position taken

by the plaintiff in error upon the hearing on the return of the
writ in refusing to introduce evidence upon the question
whether she was in fact a fugitive from justice left the ease
for decision upon the papers before the governor upon which
lie acted in issuing the warrant of arrest. We have no doubt
that a prima facie case was made out, and as the plaintiff in
error waived any right to give further evidence, she is concluded by that prmna facie case. The indictment undoubtedly
set forth a substantial charge against the plaintiff in error, and
the facts therein set forth constituted a felony in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, as certified by the district attorney
The sufficiency of the indictment, as a matter of technical
pleading, will not be inquired into on habeas corpuns. Ex parte
Reggel, 114 U. S. 642; Pearcev Texas, 155 U S. 311, Ex parle
Hart, 59 Fed. Rep. 894.
If the indictment be for three distinct offenses (although of
the same nature) set out in the three different counts, as is
argued by plaintiff in error, it will not be presumed that such
an indictment is void under the laws of Massachusetts, and the
question of procedure under the indictment is one for the courts
of the State where it was found. The courts of that State
would undoubtedly protect her in the enjoyment of all her
constitutional rights. These are matters for the trial court of
the demanding State, and are not to be inquired of on this
writ. If it appear that the indictment substantially charges
an offense for which the person may be returned to the State
for trial, it is enough for this proceeding.
Upon the question of fact, whether the plaintiff was a
fugitive from justice, her counsel, in the argument before this
court, set up several objections of a technical nature, which,
he argued, showed that the plaintiff in error was not present in
Massachusetts at the time when one of the crimes, at least,
was alleged to have been committed. As the indictment sets
up in the first two counts that the plaintiff in error had not
been usually or publicly a resident of Massachusetts at any

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

196 U. S.

-time since the comnission of the offense set forth in those
counts, it is argued that the indictment shows that she was
not present in the State at the time when the third count
charges a crime to have been committed, and the Whitney
affidavit shows she fled from the State before the alleged coinmission of the crime set forth in the third count. There isno
impossibility in the plaintiff in error having returned and been
present in the State at the time of the alleged commission of
the offense set forth in the third count, even though she had
not been "usually or publicly a resilent of that State" since
the time when it is alleged that she committed the offenses
set forth in the first two counts, and had fled therefrom before
the commission of the last offense set forth in the third count.
The affidavit of Mr. Whitney is to the effect that at the time
of the commission of the crimes she was in the State of Massachusetts, and that at the same time and previous thereto she
w'as a resident of Cambridge, in the county of Middlesex.
Whether she was a resident or not is not important, as to the
third count, if she were present in the State and committed
the crime therein. The statement in the affidavit that she
v.sed on or about the fourth day of November, 1901, while the
hhlrd count of the indictment avers the commission of the
:r.me on the twentieth of November of that year, is sufficiently
exact, considering the facts in the case, as the affiant states,
l'hat she was in the Commonwealth at the time of the commission of the crime. Reasonably construed, the affidavit of
Whitney shows the presence of the plaintiff in error m the
-tate, and is sufficient, unexplained and uncontradicted for
}hat purpose.
When it is conceded, or when it is so conclusively proved,
thiat no question can be made that the person was not within
fhe demanding State when the crime is said to have been
committed, and his arrest is sought on the ground only of a
:onstructive presence at that time, in the demanding State,
h.hen the court will discharge the defendant. Hyatt v Cockran,
108 'U S. 691, affirming the judgment of the New York Court

SWIIvr ANI) COMPANY .r UNI'FEI) ,TAI'ES.

375

Syllabus.

196 U. S.

of Appeals, 172 N. Y 176. But the court will not discharge
a defendant arrested under the governor's warrant where
there is merely contradictory evidence on the subject of
presence in or absence from the State, as habeas corpus is not
the proper proceeding to try the question of alibi, or any
question as to the guilt or innocence of the accused. As a
prima facze case existed for the retirn of the plaintiff in error,
and she refused to give any evidence upon the return of the
writ which she had herself sued out, other than the papers
before the governor, no case was made out for her discharge,
and the judgment of the Supreme Court of New Hampshire
refusing to grant it must, therefore, be
Affirmed.

SWIFT AND COMPANY v UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COUIRT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN

DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 103. Argued January 6, 7, 1905.-Decided January 30, 1905.

A combination of a dominant proportion of the dealers in fresh meat throughout the United States, not to bid against, or only in conjunction with,
each other in order to regulate prices in and induce shipments to the
live stock markets in other States, to restrict shipments, establish uniform
rules of credit, make uniform and improper rules of cartage, and to get
less than lawful rates from railroads to the exclusion of competitors with
intent to monopolize commerce among the States, is an illegal combination within the meaning and prohibition of the act of July 2, 1890, 26
Stat. 209, and can be restrained and enjoined in an action by the United
States.
It does not matter that a combination of this naturi embraces restraint
and monopoly of trade within a single State if it also embraces and is directed against commerce among the States. Moreover the effect of such
a combination upon interstate commerce is direct and not accidental,
secondary or remote as in United States v. E. C. Knight Co., 156 U. S. 1.
Even if the separate elements of such a scheme are lawful, when thy"
are bound together by a common intent as parts of an unlawful scheme to
monopolize interstate commerce the plan may make the parts unla-wful.
When cattle are sent for sale from a place in one State, with the expectation

