ADAMS EXPRESS CO. v. IOWA.
196 U. S.

Opimon of the Court.

ADAMS EXPRESS COMPANY v. IOWA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF IOWA.
No. 82. Argued December 2, 1904.-Decided January 3, 195.

Amerwan Express Co. v. Iowa, ante, p. 133, followed.

THE facts are stated m the opinion.

Mr Lawrence Maxwell, Jr., for plaintiff in error.'
Mr Charles W Mullan, Attorney General of the State of
Iowa, for defendant in error.'
MR. JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an indictment against the Adams Express Company, in a court of Iowa, for maintaining a nuisance in violation of a section of the code of that State. It was charged in
the indictment in substance that the Adams Express Company, between July and December, 1900, at St. Charles, Madison County, Iowa, used a building for the purpose of selling
intoxicating liquors therein, contrary to law, and that the
company owned and kept in said building intoxicating liquors
with the intent unlawfully to sell them within the State, contrary to an Iowa statute. There was a plea of not guilty, a
trial and verdict of guilty, and a sentence imposing a fine of
$350 and costs.
An agreed statement of facts was stipulated, from which it
appears that the Adams Express Company was a common
carrier, engaged in the express business between the States of
Missouri and Iowa, that it received the liquor in question at
I This case was argued simultaneously

with Amerwan Express Co. v. Iowa,

for abstracts of arguments see p. 134, ante.

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinon of the Court.

196 U. S.

St. Joseph, Missouri, to be carried to St. Charles, Iowa, there
to be delivered to the consignees, whose names were upon the
packages, and that each and all were marked C. 0 D., meaning that they were not to be delivered by the express company
to the consignees until the purchase price and the express
charges were paid to the agent of the express company It
was further recited in the statement of facts that the only
connection of the Adams Express Company with the transaction or transactions in relation to said liquors was as a common
carrier, having received the same in Missouri for carriage to
the consignees at St. Charles, Iowa.
The trial court charged the jury, in substance, that if from
the evidence it appeared, beyond a reasonable doubt, that the
defendant express company held at its depot for delivery to
the consignees packages of liquor shipped from other States,
upon which the price was to be collected under a C. 0. D
arrangement, the defendant must be found guilty of keeping
and maintaining a place for the sale of intoxicating liquors
within the meaning of the Iowa statutes.
On appeal to the Supreme Court of Iowa from the judgment
of conviction the action of the trial court was approved upon
the authority of the case of the State of Iowa against the American Express Company, and at bar it was conceded that the
issues in this case "are identical in every particular" with
those which were involved in that case. As we have just reversed the judgment of the Supreme Court of Iowa in the
Amercan Express Company case, it follows, for the reasons
stated in the opinion in that case, that the judgment in this
must also be reversed.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Iowa s reversed, and
the cause ts remanded to that court for proceedings not 'inconsstent with ths optnion.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN

dissents.

