UNITED STATES r UNITED VERDE COPPER CO. 207
196 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

UNITED STATES v. UNITED VERDE COPPER COMPANY
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME

COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF

ARIZONA.

No. 68. Argued December 2, 1904.-Decided January 9, 1905.
An apt and sensible meaning must be given to words as they are used m a
statute and the association of words must be regarded as designed and
not as accidental, nor will a word be considered an intruder if the statute
can be construed reasonably without eliminating that word.
In the act of June 3, 1878, 20 Stat. 88, c. 150, permitting the use of timber
on the public lands for "building, agricultural, minng and other domestic
purposes," the word "domestic" is not to be construed as relating solely
to household purposes omitting "other" altogether but it applies to the
locality to which the statute is directed and gives permission to industries there practiced to use the public timber.
To enlarge or abridge a permission given by Congress to certain specified
industries to use the public timber would not be regulation but legislation
and under the provisions of the statute of June 3, 1878, 20 Stat. 88, the
power given by the Secretary of the Interior to make regulations cannot
deprive a domestic industry from using the timber.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr Special Assistant Attorney Marsden C. Burch for the
United States:
Rule 7 is within the authority granted to the Secretary of
the Interior by the act of June 3, 1878. Nor Pac. R. R. Co.
v Lewis, 162 U S. 376, United States v Williams, 12 Pac. Rep.
(Mont.) 851.
This court has recognized the authority of Congress to grant
a privilege or license and to clothe an executive officer with
the right to grant or refuse or restrict such permission under
such rules and regulations as he may see fit to adopt in view
of conditions as they exist from time to time. See Williams v
United States, 138 U. S. 514, 524, Field v Clark, 143 U S. 649,

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for the United States.

196 U. S.

680, 692, Caha v Unsted States, 152 U S. 211, 218, 220; In. re
Kollock, 165 U S. 526, United States v Orinsbee, 74 Fed. Rep.
207, 209; United States v City of Moline, 82 Fed. Rep. 592,
598, Wilkins v United States, 96 Fed. Rep. 837, 839, 841,
United States v Dastermgnes et al., 122 Fed. Rep. 30; The
Cin. Wil. & Z. Railroad Company v Commws-ioners of Clinton
County, 1 Ohio St. 77, 87, Lock's Appeal, 72 Pa. St. 22, P F
Smith, 491, 498, 499; Port Royal Mining Company v Hagood
et al., 2 Law Rep. Ann. 841, 843, 844.
As to the phrase "and for other purposes," see United States
v Mullan Fuel Co., 118 Fed. Rep..663, Cong. Rec., Part 4,
45th Cong., 2d Sess., p. 3328.
The construction of an -act of Congress by those charged
with its execution should not be disregarded by the judiciary
unless the construction be clearly wrong. United States v
Johnston, 124 U S. 236, Heath v Wallace, 138 U S. 573,
Hawley v Ditter, 178 U S. 476. If there be a doubt as to the
meaning of Congress the construction given by the Executive
Department should control. Pennoyer v McConnaughy, 140
tI S. 1, United States v Hill, 120 U S. 169; United States v
Philbrick, 120 U S. 52.
"Roasting" ore is not a "mining" purpose. For definition
of "smelt" and "mining," see Standard Dictionary; Century
Dictionary; United States v Richmond Mining Co., 40 Fed.
Rep. 415, 2 Snyder on Mining Law, § 134. See also act of
March 3, 1891.
The statute does not plainly indicate the sense m which
Congress used the word "domestic." That word appears to
have four possible meanings:
(1) Belonging to the house or household and its relations.
(2) Addicted or adapted to family life, etc. (3) Tame. (4) Of
or pertaining to one's own State or country It will be conceded that the sense in which Congress used the word is embraced either in No. 1 or No. 4. But the real intention is
rendered obscure by the use of the word "other." The specific
enumeration, "building, agricultural, and mining," is of no

UNITED STATES v. UNITED VERDE COPPER CO. 209
196 U. S.

Argument for Appellee.

value whatever if the word "other" means "local," because
Congress could easily have said "for domestsc purposes" without any specific enumeration. We urge upon the court the
simple proposition that Congress used the word "domestic"
as belonging to the household.
If the real intention of Congress cannot be ascertained from
the act itself, or from the meaning of the words used therein,
we urge that the character of the act must be considered and
the proper rules of construction applied. The statute is permissive. Statutes which grant property privileges are to be
construed most strictly in favor of the Government and a use
not unequivocally authorized by the language of the act must
be excluded. Sutherland, Stat. Const. §378, Slidell v Grandlean, 111 U S. 412, 437, Central Transp. Co. v Pullman Co.,
139 U. S. 24, 49, United States v Dasterngnes, 118 Fed. Rep.
199; Endlich, § 354.
Mr Alfred B. Cruikshank for appellee:
The acts of defendant come well within the permissive provisions of §24 of the Act of June 3, 1878, c. 150. The phrase
"domestic purposes" means the same as "local purposes."
For prior judicial constructions of the word "domestic," see
United States v Rwhmond Mirnng Co., 40 Fed. Rep. 415,
United States v Copper Queen Con. Mining Co., 185 U S. 495.
Roasting ore is a mining purpose within the meaning of the
act. See Webster; Encyclopedia Brittanica. The statute is
remedial and should be liberally construed in favor of the
citizen. See Endlich, § 354.
Rule 7 of the Interior Department did not make defendant's acts unlawful.
The rule is to be interpreted as not including the roasting
of ore in its prohibition of smelting. The difference between
roasting and smelting is not merely technical but substantial.
In smelting a chemical change in the ore itself is produced, in
roasting there is no such process or result. Smelting includes
fusion, roasting does not. For some of the accepted definiVOL. cxCvI-14

OCTOBER TERAM, 1904.

Opimon of the Court.

196 U. S.

tions of smelting and roasting, see Webster, Worcester and
Standard Dictionaries.
The regulation of the Secretary is illegal and invalid. Cases
cited by the Government are inapplicable both as to meaning
of phrase "for other purposes" and as to construction of
statute.
MR. JusTIcE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the court.

Action brought by the United States against the appellee,
which we shall call the Copper Company, for the sum of
$38,976.75, the value of timber cut and removed from certain
unsurveyed mineral land in the Territory of Arizona.
The timber or wood was alleged to have been cut by one
Rafael Lopez, a resident and citizen of Arizona, and amounted
to 6,496* cords, of the value of $6 per cord, or the sum of
$38,976.75.
It is alleged that the timber belonged to the United States,
and "was used and consumed by the said defendant for the
purpose of roasting ore at the United Verde Copper mines,
said mines being the property of defendant herein, at Jerome,
Yavapai County, Arizona Territory, in violation of the act of
Congress of June 3, 1878, 20 Stat. 88, c. 150, and of the rules
and regulations of the Secretary of the Interior, promulgated
under the authority of said act of Congress."
The Copper Company demurred to the complaint. The
demurrer was sustained. The United States refused to amend,
and judgment was entered for the Copper Company It was
affirmed by the Supreme Court of the Territory
Section 1 of the act of June 3, 1878, upon which the action
is based, is as follows:
"That all citizens of the United States and other persons,
bona fie residents of the State of Colorado or Nevada, or either
of the Territories of New Mexico, Arizona, Utah, Wyoming,
Dakota, Idaho, or Montana, and all other mineral districts of
the United States, shall be, and are hereby, authorized and

UNITED STATES v. UNITED VERDE COPPER CO. 211
196 U.S.

Opimon of the Court.

permitted to fell and remove, for building, agricultural, mining, or other domestic purposes, any timber or other trees
growing or being on the public lands, said lands being mineral,
and not subject to entry under existing laws of the United
States, except for mineral entry, in either of said States,
Territories, or districts of which such citizens or persons may
be at the time bona fide residents, subject to such rules and
regulations as the Secretary of the Interior may prescribe for
the protection of the timber and of the undergrowth growing
upon such lands, and for other purposes: Provided, The provisions of this act shall not extend to railroad corporations."
Section 2 makes it the duty of registers and receivers to
ascertain whether any timber is being cut in violation of the
provisions of the act, and, if so, to notify the Commissioner of
the General Land Office thereof.
Section 3 makes violations of the act or of the rules and
regulations made by the Secretary of the Interior misdemeanors, punishable by fine, not exceeding $500, "to which
may be added imprisonment for any term not exceeding six
months."
Among the regulations promulgated by the Secretary of
the Interior were the following:
"4. The uses for which the timber may be felled or removed
are limited by the wording of the act to 'building, agricultural,
mining, or other domestic purposes.'
"5. No timber is permitted to be felled or removed for
purposes of sale or traffic, or to manufacture the same into
lumber or for any other use whatsoever, except as defined in
section 4 of these rules and regulations.
"7 No timber is permitted to be used for smelting purposes, smelting being a separate and distinct industry from
that of mining.
"10. These rules and regulations shall take effect February 15, 1900, and all existing rules and regulations heretofore

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinon of the Court.

196 U. S.

prescribed under said act by this department are hereby rescinded."
The contention of the United States is that roasting ore is
smelting, and that smelting is not a purpose permitted by the
act of Congress, and is besides forbidden by the regulations of
the Secretary of the Interior.
Roasting ore is defined by the Supreme Court of the Territory
m its opinion as follows:
"It is a matter of common knowledge that m this Territory
the roasting of ore at the mines from which it is taken is ordinarily accomplished by piling the ore and the wood mingled
with it in piles in the open air, and by igniting the wood the
fire is communicated to the sulphurous or other combustible
ingredients in the ore, and thus by the heat generated by its
own combustion and that of the wood mingled with it, the
volatile substances are driven off in vapor, smoke, and gases
from the ore thus treated. By this treatment the ores that
are extremely sulphide or highly charged with other volatile
substances are relieved from a large portion thereof, and are
the more readily treated by smelting or other processes of
reduction, and besides require less fluxing material for such
reduction, and are also lighter in weight, and for that reason
when shipped to other points for smelting or further treatment of any kind cost less for freight."
The court distinguished this process from smelting, and
decided that it is, in practice, a part of mining. It is a step,
the court reasoned, in the extraction of the ore from the mine,
and the separation of the ore from the rock enclosing it.
Roasting ore, therefore, is preparation for smelting, but not
smelting, which, according to all of the definitions, is something more than melting-it is obtaining the metal by heat
and such reagents as develop it. Roasting is done crudely m
the open air by burning wood and ore mingled in a pile. Smelting is the function of an organized plant. But roasting ore,
regarding the production of metal only is a preliminary step
to smelting, and counsel for the Government makes much of

UNITEI) STATES v. UNITED VERDE COPPER CO. 213
196 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

that circumstance. If this were all that is necessary to consider, the deduction would be easy that wood used for roasting
ores is used for smelting purposes.
But the dependence of industries, one upon another, does
not make them the same, and the division of labor between
them is not as marked in new as in old communities, having
a more varied industrial development. Regarding, therefore,
the conditions which existed in the mining States and Territories, roasting ore was more naturally a part of mining than
of smelting. The assignment, however, is unimportant in the
view we take of the statute, and whether roasting ore be considered a part of mining or of smelting, the use of timber for
it has the sanction of the statute.
The statute provides "that all citizens of the United States
shall be and are hereby authorized and permitted to
fell and remove for building, agricultural, mining, or other
" The special enumerdomestic purposes, any timber
ation of industries is "building, argicultural, and mining."
But the permission of the statute is not confined to these. It
extends to "other domestic purposes." The limitation of the
other purposes is in the word "domestic."
Counsel for the Government recognizes this, and substitutes
for "domestic" the word "household," and contends that the
word "other" should be treated as an intruder and eliminated
from the statute, and making the latter read that timber may
be felled for "building, agricultural, mining or domestic purposes." But we are not permitted to take such liberty with
the statute, if "domestic" has a meaning consistent with the
intentional use of the word "other." It has such meaning.
It may relate, it is true, to the household. But, keeping its
idea of locality, it may relate to a broader entity than the
household. We may properly and accurately speak of domestic manufactures, meaning not those of the household,
but those of a county, state or nation, according to the object
in contemplation. So in the statute the word "domestic"
applies to the locality to which the statute is directed, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

196 U. S.

gives permission to the industries there practiced to use the
public timber. This definition of "domestic" gives the word
an apt and sensible meaning, and we must regard the association of the word "other" with it as designed, not as accidental.
The statute was passed on m United States v Richmond
Minqng Co., 40 Fed. Rep. 415, in 1889. In that case the
United States sued in replevin for 10,000 bushels of charcoal
made from wood which was cut on mineral land in the State
of Nevada. The Richmond Mining Company was engaged in
the business of mining, purchasing and reduction of ores, and
bought the charcoal "to be used in the reduction of ores and
refining the product thereof." The court held that such use
was a domestic purpose within the meaning of the statute.
The court said that if reducing ores by melting or furnace
process, and refining the bullion, is not properly a part of
mining, "it is certainly incident to it, and closely connected
with it." The court, however, did not dwell on that point,
but put its judgment in favor of the mining company upon the
ground that reducing ores was "a domestic industry of the
highest importance to the miner and to the public," and was
within "the benefits conferred by the statute." It will be
observed that the industry which was given the benefits of
the statute was more than smelting in the strictest sense, and
the decision was acquiesced in for eleven years by the Interior
Department. It was a rule of rights and conduct for that
time, and its overturn might involve civil liability for acts
which were done under the sanction of the statute as judicially
construed. We should hesitate, therefore, to reverse that construction, even if it were more doubtful than it is.
But the Government relies on the rules and regulations of
the Secretary of the Interior, promulgated under, as it is contended, the authority of the statute since United States v
R'chmond Minsng Co. was decided. No. 7 of those regulations
provides that "no timber is permitted to be used for smelting
purposes, smelting being a separate and distinct industry from
that of mining." By this the Secretary of the Interior may

UNITED STATES v. UNITED VERDE COPPER CO. 215
196 U. S.

Opinon of the Court.

have intended to supersede the ruling in United States v Richmond Mirnng Co., but to which industry the roasting of ore
shall be assigned the Secretary does not say, and the considerations which we have expressed apply as well to the
regulation as to the statute. But there is a more absolutely
fatal objection to the regulation. The Secretary of the Interior
attempts by it to give an authoritative and final construction
of the statute. This, we think, is beyond his power. Smelting
may be a separate industry from mining, but that does not deprive it of the license given by the statute. As we have already said, the general clause, "other domestic purposes" is as
much a grant of permission to the industries designated by it
to use timber as though they had been especially enumerated,
and their rights are as inviolable as the rights of the industries
which are enumerated. The industries meant by the general
clause may receive indeed limitation from those enumerated,
m other words, be limited to the conditions existing in the
mining States and Territories wlien the statute was enacted,
but there can be no doubt .that smelting has such relation.
If rule 7 is valid, the Secretary of the Interior has power to
abridge or enlarge the statute at will. If he can define one
term, he can another. If he can abridge, he can enlarge.
Such power is not regulation, it is legislation. The power of
legislation was certainly not intended to be conferred upon the
Secretary Congress has selected the industries to which its
license is given, and has entrusted to the Secretary the power
to regulate the exercise of the license, not to take it away
There is, undoubtedly, ambiguity in the words expressing that
power, but the ambiguity should not be resolved to take from
the industries designated by Congress the license given to
them or invest the Secretary of the Interior with the power of
legislation. The words of the statute are that the felling and
use of timber by the industries designated shall be "subject to
such rules and regulations as the Secretary of the Interior may
prescribe for the protection of the timber and of the undergrowth growing upon such lands, and for other purposes."

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
BROWN, J., dissenting.

196 U. S.

The ambiguity arises from the words which we have italicized.
They express a purpose different from the protection of the
timber and undergrowth, but they cannot, we repeat, be extended to grant a power to take from the industries designated,
whether by the general clause or the specific enumeration, the
permission given by Congress.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BRoWN,

dissenting.

I am unable to concur in the construction put by the court
upon the statute of June 3, 1878. Bearing m mind that the
policy of the Government has been to preserve its rapidly
diminishing areas of forest lands for the benefit of the whole
people, any statute which permits timber to be cut by individuals should be narrowly construed.
In my view, the license given to citizens of the United States
and residents of the States and Territories named, "to fell and
remove, for building, agricultural, mining or other domestic
purposes," timber and trees growing upon the public lands
should be confined to timber intended to be used for structural
or household purposes, and not be extended so far as to authorize the consumption of timber in manufacturing or other
business operations. The word "building" explains itself.
"Agriculture" would include timber used for houses, barns,
tools, furniture and fences. The word "mining" was doubtless intended toinclude not only the buildings necessary for
mining operations, but such timber as is used in shoring up
the walls of the mine, and perhaps also in operating the hoisting
engines, but not that used for consumption in the treatment
of ores.
It is true the words "other domestic purposes" are susceptible of two constructions. The word "domestic," when
used in connection with the words commerce, manufactures
or industries, is significant of locality, and is contradistinguished from foreign, but when used in connection with the

UNION STOCK YDS. CO. v. CHICAGO &c. R. R. CO. 217
Syllabus.

196 U. S.

word "purposes" it is most nearly analogous to "household."
The difficulty with the former construction is that it practically liberates the word from all restrictions. If it be construed as referring to locality, what is the locality to which it
should be confined? Is it the immediate neighborhood, township, county or State, or may it be given the same construction
as given to it m connection with the words commerce or manufacturing, and be extended to the whole United States? If
either of these constructions were possible, it would result in
the destruction of all timber standing upon public mineral
lands, as well as in an unfair discrimination against those less
favorably situated, who are compelled to pay for the fuel consumed in the treatment of ores. I do not think the word
"other" can be used as an enlargement of the word" domestic,"
and that it should be confined, as are the preceding words, to
timber used for other analogous structural purposes and for
household consumption-m short, to other purposes domestic
in their character.
For these reasons I am constrained to dissent from the
opinion of the court.
I am authorized to state that MR. JUSTICE HARLAN and
MR. JUSTICE PECKH=A concur in this dissent.

UNION STOCK YARDS COMPANY OF OMAHA v. CHICAGO, BURLINGTON AND QUINCY RAILROAD COMPANY
CERTIFICATE

FROM THE UNITED
APPEALS

STATES

CIRCUIT COURT OF

FOR THE EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 100. Argued December 14, 15, 190-L-Decided Jauuary 9,1905.

A railroad company delivered a car with imperfect brakes to a terminal
company; both companies failed to discover the defect which could have
been done by proper inspection; an employ( of the terminal company, who

