UNITED STATES v. CROSLEY
196 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

situation to the material disadvantage of the criminal, and,
therefore, was not ex post facto when applied to his case in the
particulars mentioned.
Judgment affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. CROSLEY
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 99. Submitted December 9,1904.-Decided January 23,190.
While the court may not add to or take from the terms of a statute, the
main purpose of construction is to give effect to the legislative intent
as expressed in the act under consideration.
The Navy Personnel Act undertook to equalize the pay of naval officers
with those officers of the Army of equal rank as to duties properly required of a naval officer, and it has no operation to provide pay for
services peculiar to the Army.
A lieutenant in the Navy serving as aid to a rear-admiral is entitled to the
additional two hundred dollars allowed to a lieutenant serving as aid to
a major-general under § 1261, Rev. Stat., but he is not entitled to the
mounted pay allowed to the army lieutenant serving as such aid under
§ 1301, Army Regulations.

THIS case was tried in the Court of Claims upon a petition
filed to recover pay for services m the United States Navy,
rendered by the defendant in error, while he was a lieutenant
of the junior grade and acting as aid to Rear-Admiral Watson,
then serving with the rank of rear-admiral in the nine higher
numbers of that grade, and, under section 1466 of the Revised
Statutes, entitled to rank with a major-general in the Army
The claimant alleges that he should have received from
the first day of July, 1899, to the eighth day of September,
1899,-

OCTOBER TERM, 1904
Statement of the Case.

196 U. S.

Pay of a first lieutenant m the Army, being the grade
corresponding to lieutenant, junior grade, in the
Navy, under Revised Statutes, § 1261
$1,500
Longevity pay under Revised Statutes, § 1262, for
150
second five years of service.
Pay as aid to rear-admiral of corresponding grade to
.
200
major-general, under Revised Statutes, § 1261
Mounted pay due under Army Regulations of 1895,
100
paragraph 1301, to "authorized aids duly appointed"
Longevity pay upon the last two items under Revised
30
Statutes, § 1262.
$1,980
Total
That from September 9, 1899, to September 8, 1900, he was
entitled to pay as follows:
Pay of a first lieutenant in the Army under Revised
$1,500
Statutes, § 1261
Longevity pay under Revised Statutes, § 1262, for
300
third five years of service.
Pay as aid to rear-admiral of corresponding grade to
200
major-general, under Revised Statutes, § 1261.
Mounted pay due under Army Regulations of 1895,
100
paragraph 1301
Longevity pay on the last two items under Revised
60
Statutes, § 1262
Total

$2,160

He received pay during the period in controversy at the rate
of $1,800 per annum, being from July 1, 1899, to September 8,
1899, the rate of pay granted by statute, Rev Stat. § 1556,
to a lieutenant, junior grade, at sea during his first five years
m that rank, and for the period from September 9, 1899, to
September 8, 1900, being the rate fixed by Revised Statutes,
§ 1261, for a first lieutenant not mounted, with the longevity
allowance of the statute, § 1262, for the third five years of
service, and he claims that, in addition to the amount allowed,

UNITED STATES v. CROSLEY
196 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

he is entitled to pay or allowance as aid to a rear-admiral, also,
mounted pay due for such service, With the longevity pay
arising from the items m question. In all, he clais the sum
of $394.
The Court of Claims upon the hearing made the following
findings of fact:
"The claimant entered service in the United States Navy
on the 9th day of September, 1889, and from the 1st day of
July, 1899, until the 8th day of September, 1900, was a lieutenant, junior grade, in the Navy, and an aid to Rear-Admiral
J C. Watson, Rear-Admiral Watson was at that time one of
the nine higher numbers of the grade of rear-admiral, and was
entitled under section 1466 of the Revised Statute to rank
with a major-general m the United States Army During said
period claimant was paid at the rate of $1,800 a year."
And as conclusions of law held.
"Upon the foregoing findings of fact the court decides, as a
conclusion of law, that the claimant recover judgment of and
from the United States in the sum of three hundred and ninetyfour dollars ($394)."
From the judgment of that court the United States appeals
to this court.
Mr Assistant Attorney General Pradt and Mr Specwi Attorney John Q. Thompson for the United States-:
It is a question of rank which determines the pay and not
the character of the service which the officer performs. The
position of aid to either a major-general or to a rear-admiral
is not a distinct rank, within the meaning of the law The
Navy Personnel Act, very likely by oversight, leaves an aid
to a rear-admiral in exactly the same position as it found hin,
with no provision for his compensation for his services as such
aid.
He is not entitled to mounted pay by reason of acting as aid
to a rear-admiral if the court should find that he is not entitled
to $200 pay as aid, since the mounted pay is claimed as the pay

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Appellee.

196 U. S.

of an aid to a major-general. But it may be contended that
he should rank for the purpose of pay with a first lieutenant
mounted, and that therefore he is entitled to mounted .pay
The increase in pay for mounted service follows the condition
where the officer is compelled to keep a horse in order to the
proper performance of his duties. No such condition is possible in sea service m the Navy The right to mounted pay depends wholly upon the condition of mounted service, or a kind
of service that requires the officer performing the same to be
mounted, and since claimant was in a position where he could
not have performed mounted service, and where such service
was palpably inappropriate to his situation, it does not come
within the conditions which entitle hun to mounted pay
Mr George A. King and Mr William B. King for appellee:
Officers of the Navy are granted by the Personnel Act "the
same pay and allowances" as officers of the Army These
words are used to describe the "entire compensation" of an
officer of the Army Emory v United States, 19 C. C1. 266, and
the evident purpose is that with the exception named in the
act (forage) naval officers shall have what army officers receive. There is no reason for the discrimination attempted
to be made by the United States between pay for rank and
pay for special duty and it clearly violates this principle of
equality of pay Section 1261, Rev Stat., gives to the rank
of first lieutenant- two different rates of pay, "mounted" and
"not mounted." These rates of pay vary under Section 1262
according to the length of service of these officers. They may
draw additional pay while serving as aids to brigadier or
major-generals. On foreign service, after May 26, 1900, they
may receive ten per cent increase of pay under the acts of
May 26, 1900, and March 2, 1901, 31 Stat. 211, 903. Section
1265, Rev Stat., adds another rate of pay to all officers, that
is, half pay while on leave beyond thirty days a year.
First lieutenants m the Army receive pay made up of grade
pay, longevity pay, foreign duty pay, mounted pay or pay for

UNITED STATES v. CROSLEY
196 U. S.

Opinon of the Court.

special duty, besides allowances. The supposed "pay for
rank" cannot be the "pay and allowances" intended by the
Navy Personnel Act.
As to mounted pay the defense is based upon a misunderstanding. Section 1301, Army Regulations, under which aids
to major-generals draw mounted pay provides mounted pay
whether the officer is or is not mounted. Section 1272, Rev
Stat., gives forage to officers only for horses actually kept by
them in service, but mounted pay is granted without regard
to the question whether an officer has or has not a horse in
service.
Engineer officers of the Army receive mounted pay although
they in time of peace are to superintend river and harbor improvements and do not require horses.
The Navy Personnel Act gives to naval officers the pay of
army officers "provided by or m pursuance of law" This includes not only the pay granted by direct statute but the pay
allowed under the Army Regulations, in pursuance of law
The equality of pay between the Army and Navy as fixed
by the Personnel Act is intended to be a substantial equality,
which cannot exist unless under equivalent conditions in the
two branches the same pay is received. Army "pay and
allowances" is made up of many different items. All these
items (except forage) must be paid to the naval officer, or he
will not have "the same pay and allowances" as given to the
army officer.
MR. JUSTICE DAY, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

The decision of this case turns upon the answers to two
questions arising under the facts stated. First, was the claimant entitled to the extra two hundred dollars, the same as
allowed an aid to a major-general in the Army? Second, was
he entitled to the "mounted pay" as allowed to the-majorgeneral's aid?

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opimon of the Court.

196 U. S.

The Navy Personnel Act, so called, has been so frequently
before this court in recent cases as to require little general
discussion of its objects and purposes. Rodgers v United States,
185 U S.83, White v United States, 191 U S. 545, Gibson v
United States, 194 U S.182, United States v Thomas, decided
at this term, 195 U S.418.
As pointed out in the opinion in the last-named case, while
the act of July 16, 1862, Revised Statutes, § 1466, had fixed
the relative rank of army and naval officers, no provision for
similarity of pay was made until the passage of the Navy
Personnel Act, 30 Stat. 1004, which act, while providing against
a reduction of then existing pay of commissioned officers of
the Navy, undertook to equalize the pay of naval officers
(theretofore generally below that paid to officers of corresponding rank in the Army) with that of officers in the Army
of equal rank. Under the act of July 16, 1862, rear-admirals
ranked with maJor-generals. Section 13 of the Navy Personnel Act provides:
"That after June 30, 1899, commissioned officers of the line
of the Navy and of the Medical Pay Corps shall receive the
same pay and allowances, except forage, as are or may be provided by or in pursuance of law for the officers of corresponding rank in the Army"
The claimant, as lieutenant of the junior grade in the Navy,
corresponded in rank with a first lieutenant in the Army
(Revised Statutes, § 1466), the rank of "master," named in
§ 1466, being subsequently changed to lieutenant, junior grade,
22 Stat. 472. By section 1098 of the Revised Statutes it is
provided that each major-general shall have three aids, who
may be chosen by hum from the captains or lieutenants of the
Army First lieutenants, officers of the Army, under section 1261 of the Revised Statutes, are entitled to pay as
follows:
"The officers of the Army shall be entitled to pay herein
First lieustated after their respective designations:
tenant, mounted. sixteen hundred dollars a year; first lieuten-

UNITED STATES v. CROSLEY
196 U. S.

Opimon of the Court.

aid
ant, not mounted. fifteen hundred dollars a year;
to major-general. two hundred dollars a year, in addition to
the pay of his rank."
For each five years of service it is provided in section 1262:
"There shall be allowed and paid to each commissioned
officer below the rank of brigadier-general, including chaplains
and others having assimilated rank or pay, ten per centum of
their current yearly pay for each term of five years service."
The contention of the Government is that, while the pay of
naval officers is made to correspond with that of army officers
of like rank, the naval officer assigned to duty as aid may not
receive the $200 additional pay, as it is not pay on account of
rank, but on account of service. But we think this is too
narrow a construction of the terms of the act, in view of its
intent and purpose. For while we may not add to or take
from the terms of a statute, the main purpose of construction
is to give effect to the legislative intent as expressed in the act
under consideration. An aid to a rear-admiral renders services similar to those rendered by an aid to a major-general in
the Army The naval aids are appointed under paragraphs
343 and 345 of the Naval Regulations of 1895, which are.
"SEc. 343. The chief of staff, flag lieutenant, clerk and aids
shall constitute the personal staff of a flag officer."
"SEc. 345. (1) A flag officer may select any officer of his
command to serve as flag lieutenant or clerk, provided his
grade accords with the rules laid down in Article 344. (2) He
may also, when necessary, select other line officers junior to
the flag lieutenant to serve on his personal staff as aids, but
shall not assign naval cadets to such duty"
They are selected for like service, and it is admitted that
there would have been reason for a like express statutory provision in their favor as to compensation. The sum of $200 is
allowed to an aid to a major-general in addition to the regular
pay of his rank. It is allowed as payment for the additional
service imposed. Bearing in mind the purpose of the act to
give the same compensation to corresponding officers of the

M34

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

196 U. S.

Army and Navy, and that it is expressly provided that officers
of the Navy shall receive the same pay and allowances, except
for forage, as are or may be provided by law for officers of the
Army of corresponding rank, we think it does no violence to,
but rather carries out, the purpose of Congress to construe
this section so as to give to an aid of a rear-admiral, in addition
to the regular pay of his rank, pay similar to that allowed an
aid to a major-general. We reach the conclusion that the
Court of Claims was right in its allowance of this item.
The solution of the question as to mounted pay depends
upon whether such pay is given to an officer whose duty requires hun to be subject to mounted duty, or whether it is a
term used to designate the pay of aids whether they are required to render mounted service or not. Section 1301 of the
Army Regulations of 1895 provides:
"The following officers, in addition to those whose pay is
fixed by law, are entitled to pay as mounted officers: Officers of
the staff corps below the rank of major, officers serving with
troops of cavalry, officers of a light battery duly organized and
equipped, authorized aids duly appointed, officers serving with
companies of mounted infantry, and officers on duty which, in
the opinion of the department commander, requires them to
be mounted and so certified by the latter on their pay vouchers."
The contention of the appellee is that aids, duly appointed
under this section, serving in the Army, are entitled to this
compensation, whether required to be mounted or not. And
further, that the language "pay as mounted officers" is used
in the paragraph rather with a view of fixing the amount to be
paid than to characterize the service required. It is doubtless
true that the terms mounted pay may be used in this sense.
Rwhardson v United States, 38 C. Cl. 182, is cited as an illustration of this use of the phrase. In that case it was held that
an assistant surgeon in the Navy was entitled to mounted pay
under the Navy Personnel Act, because an assistant surgeon
in the Army was entitled thereto. Under section 1168 of the
Revised Statutes, an assistant surgeon in the Army ranked

UNITED STATES v. CROSLEY
196 U. S.

Opimon of the Court.

with a lieutenant of cavalry for the first three years of service,
and with a captain of cavalry after the expiration of that
period. Under these provisions the assistant surgeon was
held entitled to mounted pay
We are further cited to a decision of the Comptroller of the
Treasury, 10 Comp. Dec. 523, holding that officers of the Pay
Corps of the Navy are entitled to mounted pay, as officers of
the Pay Corps of the Army are given by law cavalry or mounted
pay It may well be that m these cases mounted pay was
descriptive of the compensation to be paid, and an officer may
therefore be entitled to it, although he renders no mounted
service.
But the right of mounted pay to an aid to a rear-admiral,
assuming that the Navy Personnel Act assimilates the compensation of an admiral's aid to that of an aid to a majorgeneral m the Army, depends upon whether an aid to a majorgeneral under section 1301 of the Army Regulations above
quoted, although he renders no mounted service, and may not
be required to be mounted, is entitled to such compensation.
We think sections 1302 and 1303 of the Army Regulations may
also be noticed in this connection. They are:
"SEc. 1302. Department commanders will announce, in orders, the authority obtained from the Secretary of War for
mounting companies of infantry, giving the date from which
such mounted service commences, and termination of the same.
"SEC. 1303. Muster rolls and returns of light batteries and
companies of mounted infantry will show the number, date and
source of order authorizing mounted service. The pay accounts of officers charging mounted pay will contain the same
information. A copy of the order will be attached to the first
muster rolls prepared after the battery or company has been
equipped or mounted, a copy of the order discontinuing such
service will appear on the first muster rolls prepared after its
discontinuance."
We think these sections, with § 1301 of the Army Regulations above quoted, read in the light of the statute (Rev Stat.

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opimon of the Court.

196 U. S.

§ 1270) giving to army officers the pay of cavalry officers of

the same grade when assigned to duty which requires them to
be mounted, indicate a general purpose to give to officers of
the Army mounted pay when their duties are such as may
require them to be actually mounted, or are such as may at
any time subject them to the necessity of rendering mounted

service. The particular section (1301) under which it is resisted that a naval aid is entitled to mounted pay, designates
officers who either are or may be required to be mounted in
the discharge of their duties, and likewise to "officers on duty
which, in the opinion of the department commander, requires
them to be mounted and so certified by the latter on their pay
vouchers."
This paragraph was intended to include the particular classes
of officers who are entitled to pay as mounted officers under the
classification in the first part thereof, and gives the benefit of
the higher rate of compensation to other officers, not expressly
named therein, whose duties require them to be mounted.
It may be true, as argued at the bar, that there may be times
when the duties of an aid to a major-general will not require
him to be mounted. But, as we understand the Army Regulations, such officers may be at any time required to render
nrmounted service, and are therefore given the pay of that class.
Obviously, the duties of an aid to a rear-admiral are not such
as to require him to render mounted service, and as the Navy
Personnel Act only undertakes to afford a measure of compensation for duties which can properly be required of a naval
officer, it can have no operation to provide pay for services
peculiar to the Army As was held m United States v Thomas,
supra, it does not follow, because Congress gives special pay
to army officers, that the same right of compensation applies
to naval officers also. In that case it was held that an allowance to army officers who might be ordered to sea or a foreign
port could not be given to naval officers whose regular duties
require them to engage in service upon the sea and to crise
upon foreign waters and serve in foreign ports.

MINING COMPANY v. TUNNEL COMPANY.

337

Syllabus.

196 U. S.

The present case affords still less reason for giving the pay
of an army officer to one in the Navy, where the compensation
is given for a character of service which never can be required
except in the Army
Upon this branch of the case we think the Court of Claims
was in error, and the judgment for mounted pay should not
have been rendered in favor of the claimant.
The judgment of the Court of Claims is modified, disallowmg the sums claimed in the petition and carried into the judgment on account of mounted pay and longevity pay based
thereon, and, as modified, is.
Affirmed.

CREEDE AND CRIPPLE CREEK MINING AND MILLING COMPANY v. UINTA TUNNEL MINING AND
TRANSPORTATION COMPANY
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
FOR THE EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 18. Argued April 15,18,1904.-Reargued January 10, 11, 190.-Decided January30,
1905.

As between the Government and the locator, it is not a vital fact that there
was a discovery of mineral in a lode claun before the commencement of
any of the steps required to perfect a location, and by accepting the
entry, and confirming it by a patent, the Government does not determine
as to the order of proceedings prior to the entry but only that all required
by law have been taken.
Adverse proceedings, are called for only when one mineral claunant contests the right of another mineral claimant, and, as a tunnel is not
a minuig claim but only a means of exploration, the owner, prior to
discovery of a lode or vein within the tunnel, is not bound to adverse
the application for the patent of a lode claim, the lode of which was
discovered on the surface; and his omission to do so does not preclude
him from asserting a right prior to the date of discovery named in the
certificate of location on -which the patent for the surface lode clain is
based.

VOL. oxovi-22

