UNITED STATES v. ENGARD.
196 U. S.

Syllabus.

to allow the alleged set-off, and in refusing to permit proof
to be made which embraced and asserted such set-off. It follows that although the judgment below must be reversed for
the reasons stated, the case should be remanded with directions
to disregard the alleged claim of set-off, to reject any proof of
claim asserting the same, and to permit a claim to be filed for
the gross indebtedness to the tie company, with the alleged
set-off eliminated. The result will be that the tie company
will be a creditor of the estate for the whole amount of its
claim, and will be at the same time a debtor to the estate for
the amount of the deductions from the pay-rolls collected by it,
the court below, of course, having power to take such steps
as may be lawful to protect the estate in respect to the payment
of dividends to the tie company, in the event that company
does not discharge its obligations to the bankrupt estate.
The decrees of both courts are reversed and the case ss remanded
to the Distrwt Court with directons to allow the proof of
claim, rejectng the alleged set-off, and for further proceedzngs n conformity with this opinwn.

UNITED STATES v. ENGARD
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
1so.136. Argued January 18, 1905.-Decided February 20, 1905.

The Navy Department has no power to disregard the provisions of Rev.
Stat. §§ 1556, 1571, and Pars. 1154, 1168, naval regulations and either
deprive an officer of sea pay by assigning him to a duty mistakenly
qualified as shore duty but which is m law sea duty, or to entitle him
to receive sea pay by assigning him to duty which is essentially shore
duty and mistakenly qualifying it as sea duty.
Where, however, the assignment of an officer to duty by the Navy Department expressly imposes upon him the continued discharge of his sea
duties and qualifies the shore duty as merely temporary and ancillary
to the regular sea duty, the presumption is that the shore duty is tempo-

OCTOBER TERMN,

1904.

Statement of the Case.

196 U. S.

rary and does not operate to interfere with or discharge the officer from
the responsibilities of the sea duties to which he is regularly assigned
and he is entitled to sea pay during the time of such temporary shore
duty.

SOmEWHAT condensing the facts below found, they are as
follows: In February, 1897, Chief Engineer Albert C. Engard
was performing duty as the chief engineer of the United States
receiving ship Richmond, at League Island, Pennsylvania.
On the eleventh of February he received the following order
from the Navy Department:

"NAvY DEPARTMENT,

"Washington, February 11, 1897
"SIR. Report by letter, to the president of the Steel Inspection Board, navy yard, Washington, D C., for temporary duty
in connection with the inspection of steel tubes for the boilers
of torpedo boat No. 11, at Findlay, Ohio, and at Shelby, Ohio.
"You are authorized to perform such travel between League
Island, Pa., and Findlay, Ohio, and between League Island,
Pa., and Shelby, Ohio, as may be necessary m the performance of this duty
"Keep a memorandum of the travel so performed by you,
certifying to its necessity, and submit the same to the Department, from time to time, for its approval.
"This duty is in addition to your present duties.
"Very respectfully,
"W

MCADoo, Achng Secretary.

"Chief Engineer Albert C. Engard, U S. Navy,
"U S. R. S. Richmond, Navy Yard, League Island, Pa."
Complying with this order, Chief Engineer Engard made
two round trips between League Island and Ohio, in order to
discharge the additional duty referred to in the order. The
total number of days m which he was engaged in this work
between February 24, 1897, and August 14, 1897, was 122.
On an application to be allowed mileage for the trips, amounting to $172.80, the Auditor of the Navy Department deducted
from the claim $133.70, and allowed only $39.10. The sum

UNITED STATES v. ENGARD.
196 U. S.

Argument for Appellee.

disallowed was deducted on the theory that the chief engineer
was only entitled to be paid for shore duty instead of for sea
service during the time referred to. This suit was brought to
recover the amount of the deduction, and the right to so
recover was sustained by the Court of Claims. 38 C. Cl. 712.
Mr Special Attorney John Q. Thompson, with whom Mr
Assstant Attorney General Pradt was on the brief, for the
United States:
The cases construing §§ 1556 and 1571, Rev Stat., have
established as general principles: First, that the pay of a naval
officer is not determined by the nature of the order assigning
him to duty, but, on the other hand, is determined by the
nature of the duties actually performed by the officer. Second, that where the services performed are partly sea duty
and partly shore duty, the paramount duty should determine
the pay where it is possible to segregate the time spent in sea
service from the time spent on shore duty As a corollary, it
may be said that an order from the Secretary of the Navy may
have the effect of relieving an officer from either shore duty
or sea duty, notwithstanding the fact that the order does not
do so eo nommne.
Pay is not determined by the order. Symonds v United
States, 210. C. 148, S. C., 120 U S. 46, Perce v United States,
33 0. Cl. 294, Wyckoff v United States, 34 C. Cl. 288, McGowan's Case, 36 C. Cl. 69; Hannum v United States, 36 C.
Cl. 99; Tausstg v United States, 38 C. Cl. 112. The paramount duty should determine pay The services were not
performed at sea and the mere fact that the order did not
contain express words detaching him from sea service during
the time he was temporarily employed on those services does
not change the character of shore services to sea service.
Schoonmaker v United States, 19 C. Cl. 170.
Mr William B. King, with whom Mr George A. King was
on the brief, for appellee:
An officer sent temporarily to hospital without detachVOL. oxcv-33

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

196 U. S.

ment from his vessel, is held even by the Treasury Department entitled to sea pay The Comptroller decided, 2 Comp.
Dec. 299, that it would be absurd to hold that every time an
health to go into hospital for
officer was compelled by ill
temporary treatment he is thereby detached from the service
to which he had been ordered by the Secretary It rests with
the Secretary to so detach him and place him upon "leave or
waiting orders." That decision m its application to temporary absence on account of illness has been followed by
the Court of Claims in Collins v United States, 37 C. Cl. 222.
If an officer temporarily absent from his vessel in hospital is
entitled to sea pay during his absence, so much the more is
sea pay due to an officer whose responsibilities as an officer
of a vessel continue while he has, in addition to these, other
duties ashore.
making the foregoing statement,
court.
the
of
opinion
the
delivered
MR. JusTIcE WITE, after

A higher rate of pay is allowed to a chief engineer as well
as to other naval officers when performing sea duty than when
engaged on shore duty Rev Stat. § 1556. And Rev Stat.
§1571 provides as follows:
"No service shall be regarded as sea service except such as
shall be performed at sea, under the orders of a Department
and in vessels employed by authority of law"
The Government did not dispute at bar, however, that
where an officer assigned to sea duty within the purview of
the foregoing provision is called upon, without a change in his
sea assignment, to perform merely temporary service ashore,
he is entitled to sea pay And this is in accord with the naval
regulations, wherein it is provided.
Paragraph 1154.
"(1.) Officers shall be entitled to sea pay while attached to
and serving on board of any ship in commission under control
of the Navy Department, the Coast Survey, or the Fish Commission. ...

UNITED STATES v. ENGARD.
196 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

"(3.) Any officer temporarily absent from a ship in commission to which he is attached shall continue to receive sea
pay
Paragraph 1168
"A temporary leave of absence does not detach an officer
from duty nor affect his rate of pay"
It is settled that the Navy Department has no power to
disregard the statute and to deprive an officer of sea pay by
assigning hun to a duty mistakenly qualified as shore duty,
but which is in law sea duty United States v Symonds, 120
U. S. 46, United States v Barnette, 165 U S. 174. And of
course the converse is also true that the Navy Department has
no power to entitle an officer to receive sea pay by assigning
him to duty which is essentially shore duty and mistakenly
qualifying it as sea duty But there is no conflict between
these rulings, and the conceded principle that where an officer
is assigned to a duty which is essentially a sea service that he
does not lose his right to sea pay whenever he is called upon
to perform a mere temporary service ashore. In the present
case it cannot be denied that the officer was assigned to sea
duty and that the order of the Department, instead of detachmg him therefrom, simply ordered him to discharge a temporary service ashore in addition to his sea service. The
whole contention of the Government is that this temporary
shore service was necessarily incompatible with the continued
performance of the officer's duty on the ship to which he continued to be attached, and therefore that the shore duty was
paramount to the sea service, and necessarily by operation of
law affected the detachment of the officer so as to permanently relieve him from the sea duty to which he continued
to be regularly assigned.
There is no finding in the record, however, which justifies
this argument, and as urged at bar it rests upon the mere
assumption of the incompatibility between the sea duty to
which the officer was regularly assigned and the temporary
shore duty which he was called upon by the Department to

OCTOBER TERMI, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

196 U. S.

discharge. In effect, the proposition is that it must be assumed as a matter of law, in the absence of a finding to that
effect, that the temporary shore duty was of such a permanent
character as to render it impossible for the officer to continue
to perform duty under his permanent sea assignment, and,
therefore, as a matter of law caused such assignment to terminate. We think the converse is true, and that where the assignment of an officer to duty by the Navy Department
expressly imposed upon him the continued discharge of his
sea duties and qualified the shore duty as merely temporary
and ancillary to the regular sea duty, that the presumption
is that the shore duty was temporary and did not operate to
interfere with or discharge the officer from the responsibilities
of his sea duty to which he was regularly assigned.
Affirmed.

THOMPSON v. FAIRBANKS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF VERMONT.

No. 114. Submitted January 6, 1905.-Decided February 20, 1905.
Whether, and to what extent, a chattel mortgage, which includes after
acquired property, is valid is a local and not a Federal question, and in
such a case this court will follow the decisions of the state court.
The enforcement of a lien by the mortgagee taking possession, with the consent of the mortgagor, of after acquired property covered by a valid
mortgage made and recorded prior to the passage of the act, is not a
conveyance or transfer under the bankrupt act; and, where it does not
appear that it was done to hnder, delay or defraud creditors, it does not
constitute a preference under the act although at the time of the enforcement the mortgagee may have known that the mortgagor was insolvent
and considering going into bankruptcy and the petition was filed within
four months thereafter.

THE plaintiff in error, by this writ, seeks to review a judgment of the Supreme Court of the State of Vermont m favor
of the defendant in error. 75 Vermont, 361. The facts upon

