OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

196 U. S.

We find no error m the judgment of the Circuit Court of
Appeals, and it is
Afirmed.

LEE v. ROBINSON.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF SOUTH CAROLINA.
No. 8. Argued December 6, 7, 1904.-Decided December 19, 1904.
Article IX, ยง 10, of the constitution of South Carolina of 1868, forbidding,
except as specially authorized in the constitution, the issue of scrip or
other evidence of state indebtedness except for the redemption of existing indebtedness of the State, forbade the issue of scrip under an act
passed in 1872 to take up the State's guaranty of railroad bonds under
an act passed in 1868 subsequent to the ratification of the constitution,
notwithstanding that acts had been passed in 1852 and 1851 authorizing
such guaranty, it appearing that the guaranty had not actually been
endorsed on the bonds prior to the ratification of the constitution and that
the act of 1868 was not an adjustment of an old debt but the granting of
new aid to the railroad and the authorizing of an original issue of bonds.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr William H Lyles for plaintiff in error.
Mr D W Robinson for defendant in error.
Mr William Elliott, Jr., by leave of the court, ified a brief
as amzws cur'tce.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action to recover land, brought by Robinson, the
defendant in error, a citizen and resident of North Carolina,
against Lee, a citizen and resident of South Carolina, on the
ground that Robinson had purchased the land at a tax sale.

LEE v. ROBINSON.
196 U. S.

Opimon of the Court.

The value of the land is alleged and found to be more than
$2,000. The defense is that a tender was made of the amount
of the taxes before the sale. This tender included, as a part
of it, revenue bond scrip of the State of South Carolina for
five dollars, purporting on its face to be receivable m payment
of taxes, and the question is whether the tender was good, or,
more precisely, whether the bond scrip was receivable for taxes
under the Constitution of the United States and the constitution and laws of South Carolina. The Circuit Court held the
tender bad, on the double ground that the issue of the scrip
was in contravention of the constitution of the State and that
the scrip was a bill of credit within the prohibition of Article 1,
Section 10, of the Constitution of the United States. 122 Fed.
Rep. 1012. Judgment was given for the plaintiff, lRobinson,
and this writ of error was brought, setting up that the contract
rights of the defendant under the Constitution of the United
States were impaired by the laws hereafter mentioned which
excluded the reception of the scrip for the tax.
Counsel other than those representing the parties was permitted to file a brief as amwcus curio, and urged that-this was
a collusive suit. But the Circuit Court held that it was not,
122 Fed. Rep. 1010, and we accept the finding for the purposes
of disposing of the case.
The revenue bond scrip was issued under an act of March 2,
1872, entitled "An act to relieve the State of South Carolina
of all liability for its guaranty of the bonds of the Blue Ridge
Railroad Company, by providing for the securing and destruction of the same." This act purported to authorize the
issue to the amount of $1,800,000, "which revenue bond scrip
shall be signed by the state treasurer, and shall express that
the sum mentioned therein is due by the State of South Carolina to the bearer thereof, and that the same will be received
m payment of taxes and all other dues to the State, except
special tax levied to pay interest on the public debt." But
the Supreme Court of the State held that the scrip constituted
bills of credit within the prohibition of the Constitution of the
VOL. CXCVI-5

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

196 U. S.

United States, Article 1, Section 10. State ex rel. Shsves v
Comptroller General, 4 S.Car. 185. The pledge of the State's
credit and the provisions for the redemption of the scrip were
repealed by the Legislature, and under the fiscal laws of the
State the scrip had not been receivable for taxes since 1873.
We are of opinion that the issue of the scrip was forbidden
by the constitution of the State. When the scrip was issued,
the constitution of South Carolina, ratified on April 16, 1868,
in Article IX, Section 10, provided as follows: "No scrip,
certificate or other evidence of state indebtedness shall be
issued except for the redemption of stocks, bonds, or other
evidence of indebtedness previously issued, or for such debts
as are expressly authorized in this constitution." There was
also a further provision that "any debt contracted by the
State shall be by loan on state bonds, of amounts not less than
fifty dollars each, on interest payable within twenty years after
the final passage of the law authorizing such debt."
The guaranty from which the scrip was to relieve the State
was a guaranty of bonds of the Blue Ridge Railroad Company,
which was endorsed upon them by authority of an act approved
September 15, 1868. The State long had favored this road,
and had held its stock. It had authorized the guaranty of
bonds in 1852, and again in 1854 repealing the former act.
But the act of 1868 recited that the Comptroller General of the
State had not endorsed any of the bonds issued under the act
of 1854, and that the conditions imposed upon such endorsement had become impossible and injudicious. So it might be
assumed from the face of the statute of 1868 that there was no
outstanding liability represented by the guaranty under that
statute, and we see no ground for doubt that the guaranty
must be considered as a new contract made for the first time,
in substance as well as form, after the Constitution of 1868
went into effect.
The guaranty under the act of 1868 cannot be put under
the head of "such debts as are expressly authorized in this
Constitution," since it was not in the form required for debts

LEE v. ROBINSON.
196 U. S.

Opinon of the Court.

contracted under the constitution of 1868. We are of opinion
that it equally little satisfies the other exception in Article IX,
Section 10, quoted above, of a contract made for the redemption of an "evidence of indebtedness previously issued."
Whether the word "previously" refers to the date of the
constitution or to the date of issuing the guaranty, the guaranty
of 1868 is not and does not purport to be made for the redemption of a previous evidence of debt.
It is argued that, whether there was a liability or not, the
acts before 1868 having purported to pledge the credit of the
State to secure the bonds of the railroad company, as they did,
there was color of liability, and the act of 1868, or at any rate
the act of 1872, authorizing the bond scrip, was the adjustment of a claim against the State under Article IX, Section 4, of
the state constitution. But the act of 1868 did not purport
to be an adjustment. On the contrary, it purported, as we
have said, to give new aid to the railroad and to authorize an
original issue. The act of 1872, again, dealt only with the
supposed liability under the act of 1868, and provided for the
satisfaction of that. If that liability did not exist the statute
no more could ratify it than it could call it into being. The
liability for which scrip could be issued was required by the
constitution to be one existing before the issue was made.
Moreover, the act of 1872 did not purport to be an adjustment
of a matter in dispute or an adjustment in any sense. It
simply assumed that there was an outstanding liability, and
provided for the satisfaction of it. The question is not whether
payment of the bond scrip would be valid, but whether the
bond scrip was issued under the conditions which the state
constitution imposed.
Judgment affirmed.

