UNION STOCK YDS. CO. v. CHICAGO &c. R. R. CO. 217
Syllabus.

196 U. S.

word "purposes" it is most nearly analogous to "household."
The difficulty with the former construction is that it practically liberates the word from all restrictions. If it be construed as referring to locality, what is the locality to which it
should be confined? Is it the immediate neighborhood, township, county or State, or may it be given the same construction
as given to it m connection with the words commerce or manufacturing, and be extended to the whole United States? If
either of these constructions were possible, it would result in
the destruction of all timber standing upon public mineral
lands, as well as in an unfair discrimination against those less
favorably situated, who are compelled to pay for the fuel consumed in the treatment of ores. I do not think the word
"other" can be used as an enlargement of the word" domestic,"
and that it should be confined, as are the preceding words, to
timber used for other analogous structural purposes and for
household consumption-m short, to other purposes domestic
in their character.
For these reasons I am constrained to dissent from the
opinion of the court.
I am authorized to state that MR. JUSTICE HARLAN and
MR. JUSTICE PECKH=A concur in this dissent.

UNION STOCK YARDS COMPANY OF OMAHA v. CHICAGO, BURLINGTON AND QUINCY RAILROAD COMPANY
CERTIFICATE

FROM THE UNITED
APPEALS

STATES

CIRCUIT COURT OF

FOR THE EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 100. Argued December 14, 15, 190-L-Decided Jauuary 9,1905.

A railroad company delivered a car with imperfect brakes to a terminal
company; both companies failed to discover the defect which could have
been done by proper inspection; an employ( of the terminal company, who

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

196 U. S.

was injured as a direct result of the defective brake, sued the terminal
company alone and recovered. In an action brought by the terminal
company against the railroad company for the amount paid under the
judgment: Held that:
As both companies were wrongdoers, and were guilty of a like neglect of
'duty in failing to properly inspect the car before putting it m use, the
fact that such duty was first required of the railroad company did not
bring the case within the exceptional rule which permits one wrongdoer,
who has been mulcted in damages, to recover indemnity or contribution
from another, on the ground that the latter was primarily responsible.

THis case comes here on the certificate of the United States
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit. The facts
embodied therein are: The Circuit Court of the United States,
sitting at Omaha, Neb., sustained a demurrer to the petition
of the plaintiff in error against the defendant in error. The
facts stated in the petition, in substance, are as follows:
"The plaintiff, The Stock Yards Company, is a corporation
which owns stock yards at South Omaha, Nebraska, railroad
tracks appurtenant thereto, and motive power to operate cars
for the purpose of switching them to their ultimate destinations m its yards from a transfer track which connects its
tracks with the railways of the defendant, The Burlington
Company The Burlington Company is a railroad corporation engaged in the business of a common carrier of freight
and passengers. The defendant places the cars destined for
points in the plaintiff's yards on the transfer track adjacent
to the premises of the plaintiff, and the latter hauls them to
their points of destination in its yards for a fixed compensation, which is paid to it by the defendant. The plaintiff receives no part of the charge to the shipper for the transportation of the cars, but the defendant contracts with the shipper
to deliver the cars to their places of ultimate destination in
the plaintiff's yards and receives from the shipper the compensation therefor. The defendant delivered to the plaintiff
upon the transfer track a refrigerator car of the Hammond
Packing Company, used by the defendant to transport the
meats of that company, to be delivered to that company by
the plaintiff in its stock yards. This car was in bad order, in

UNION STOCK YDS. CO. v. CHICAGO &c. R. R. CO. 219
196 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

that the nut above the wheel upon the brake staff was not
fastened to the staff, although it covered the top of the staff
and rested on the wheel as though it was fastened thereto, and
this defect was discoverable upon reasonable inspection. The
plaintiff undertook to deliver the car to the Hammond Company and sent Edward Goodwin, one of its servants, upon it
for that purpose, who, by reason of this defect, was thrown
from the car and injured while he was in the discharge of his
duty He sued the plaintiff and recovered a judgment in
one of the District Courts of Nebraska for the damages which
he sustained by his fall, on the ground that it was caused by
the negligence of the Stock Yards Company m the discharge
of its duty of inspection to its employ6. This judgment was
subsequently affirmed by the Supreme Court of Nebraska,
Unwn Stock Yards Co. v Gooduan, 57 Nebraska, 138, and
was paid by the plaintiff."
Upon this certificate the Circuit Court of Appeals propounds
the following question.
"Is a railroad company which delivers a car in bad order
to a Terminal Company, that is under contract to deliver it to
its ultimate destination on its premises for a fixed compensation to be paid to it by the railroad company, liable to the
Terminal Company for the damages which the latter has been
compelled to pay to one of its employds on account of injuries
he sustained, while in the customary discharge of his duty of
operating the car, by reason of the defect in it, in a case in
which the defect is discoverable upon reasonable inspection?"
Mr Frank T Ransom for plaintiff in errorBoth plaintiff and defendant were liable to plaintiff's employ6 for the injuries he received. Pennsylvansa R. R. Co. v
Snyder, 55 Ohio St. 342, Moon v Nor Pac. R. R. Co., 46 Minnesota, 106, Teal v Am. Min. Co., 87 N. W Rep. 837, Hoye v
Gt. Northern Ry. Co., 120 Fed. Rep. 712, Heaven v Pender, 11
Q. B. Div 506, Elliott v Hall, 15 Q. B. Div 315, Railroad Co.
v Booth, 98 Georgia, 20; Home v Meaksn, 115 Massachusetts,

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

196 U. S.

326, Thrussell v Hannyside, 20 Q. B. Div 315, Sawyer v.
Railroad Co., 35 N. W Rep. 671, Glynn v Railroad Co., 175
Massachusetts, 510.
The defendant was guilty of the original wrongful act from
which the damages arose, and but for its breach of a duty it owed
plaintiff the injury would not have resulted, the rule, therefore, that there can be no redress (indemnity or contribution)
between joint tort-feasors, is not applicable to the facts stated,
but the exception to that rule, which is, that where one of
several persons answerable for a negligent act or condition
which he has not joined in or created has been compelled to
respond in damages for such act or condition, he may have
redress against the others, is applicable to the facts stated in
the question. Gray v Boston Gas Lsght Co., 114 Massachusetts, 149; Lowell v B. & L. Ry. Co., 23 Pick. 24, Cooley on
Torts, 1st ed.., 144, Bishop on Non-contract Law, §§ 56, 535,
footnote to Centerville v Cook, 16 Am. St. Rep. 254, citing
Akerman v Miller, 2 Ohio St. 203, Adamson v Jarms, 4 Bin. 66,
Betts v Gibbons, 2 Ad. & E. 57, Farwell v Becker, 129 Illinois,
261, Minneapolis Mill Co. v Wheeler, 31 Minnesota, 121.
While between willful wrongdoers there can be no contribution where the tort is one by construction, the case is not covered by the rule. Story on Partnership, § 220; Vandiver v
Pollak, 19 L. R. A. 628.
The rule that wrongdoers cannot have contribution or redress against each other is confined to cases where the plaintiff
is presumed to have known he was doing a wrongful act.
Block v Estes, 92 Missouri, 318, Scofield v Gaskill, 60 Georgia,
277, Owen v McGehee, 61 Alabama, 440; Armstrong Co. v
Clarion Co., 66 Pa. St. 218, Jacobs v Pollard, 10 Cush. 287,
Cooley on Torts, 148, Pollock on Torts, 171, Horback v Elder,
18 Pa. St. 33, Farwellv Becker, 129 Illinois, 261.
Nor does the rule apply to a person made a wrongdoer by
inference of law Merryweather v Nixon, 2 Smith's Leading
Cases, 456, Pearson v Skelton, 1 M. & W 504, Adamson v
Jarms, 4 Bin. 66, Note m 16 Am. St. Rep. 257, Johnson v.

UNION STOCK YDS. CO. v. CHICAGO &c. R. R. CO.'221
190 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

Torpy, 35 Nebraska, 604, S. C., 43 Nebraska, 882, Ankeny
v Moffett, 37 Minnesota, 109.
Mr CharlesJ Greene for defendant in error'
Every company is bound to know the actual condition of
each car it receives, hauls or uses, and the appliances attached
to it, whether it does or does not inspect it, and without regard to its ownership or its source and destination. It was the
duty of the plaintiff, before accepting the car m question, or
directing its servants to handle it, to discover the defect in the
brake, if the defect were open to reasonable inspection. Railroad Company v Mackey, 157 U S. 72, Railroad Company v
Smock, 23 Colorado, 456, Railroad Company v Penjold, 57
Kansas, 148, Railroad Company v Williams, 95 Kentucky,
199; Railroad Company v Reagan, 96 Tennessee, 128, Railroad
Company v Merrill (Kan.), 70 Pac. Rep. 358, 362.
A railroad company using cars and appliances of other
companies is charged, as to its employ~s, with the same duty
to inspect as if the cars were its own. Stock Yards Company
v Goodwin, 57 Nebraska, 138, S. C., 57 N. W Rep. 357, Eddy
v Prentice, 8 Tex. Civ App. 58, S. C., 27 S. W Rep. 1063,
Jones v Shaw, 16 Tex. Civ App. 290; S. C., 41 S. W Rep, 690;
Felton v Bullard, 94 Fed. Rep. 781, N 0 & N E. Ry. Co. v
Clements, 100 Fed. Rep. 415.
A railway company which undertakes to haul foreign cars
and has an opportunity to inspect them, is negligent if it fails
to discover and repair dangerous defects in the coupling apparatus, brakes or any of the other appliances, where such defects are open to a reasonable inspection. Mackey v Railroad Company, 19 D C. App. 282, RailroadCompany v WillTams, 95 Kentucky, 199; Mateer v Railroad Company, 15 S.
W Rep. 970; Bender v Railroad Company, 177 Missouri, 240;
Jones v Railroad Company, 20 R. I. 210.
The general duty which rests upon a railroad company to
exercise reasonable care in the inspection of cars to be handled
by its employ6s, is not restricted in the case of foreign cars,

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

196 U. S.

to such as are to be sent out over its own roads, but governs
as to all such cars which its employds are handling, though only
in its switch yards, and for the purpose of being loaded and
returned to another road. Railway Company v Archibald,
170 U S. 665, Railroad Company v Penfold, 57 Kansas, 148.
A railway company which delivers a defective freight car
to a connecting line is not liable in damage to an employ6 of
the latter, who is injured by reason of such defect, after the
car has been inspected by the company receiving it. The
loss of control over the car and over the servants having it in
charge relieves the delivering company from responsibility to
the employ~s of the receiving company M., K. & T R. R.
Co. v Merrill, 70 Pac. Rep. 358, Sawyer v Railway Company,
38 Minnesota, 103, Wrght v Canal Co., 40 Hun, 343, Mackmn
v Railroad Company, 135 Massachusetts, 201, Winterbottom v
Wright, 10 M. & W 109, 114, Clifford v Atlantw Cotton
Mills, 146 Massachusetts, 47, Hezzer v Manufacturng Co.,
110 Missouri, 605.
MR. JusTICE DAY, after making the foregoing statement,

delivered the opinion of the court.
We take it that this inquiry must be read in the light of
the statement accompanying it. While instruction is asked
broadly as to the liability of the railroad company to the
terminal company, for damages which the latter has been
compelled to pay to one of its own employ~s on account of
injuries sustained, it is doubtless meant to limit the inquiry
to cases -wherein such recovery was had because of the established negligence of the terminal company in the performance
of the specific duty stated and which it owed to the employ6.
For it must be taken as settled that the terminal company was
guilty of negligence after it received the car in question, in
failing to perform the duty of inspection required of it as to
its own employ6. The case referred to in the certificate,
Union Stock Yards Co. v Goodwm, 57 Nebraska, 138, is a final
adjudication between the terminal company and the employ6,

UNION STOCK YDS. CO. v. CHICAGO &c. R. R. CO. 223
196 U. S.

Opnon of the Court.

and it therein appears that the liability of the company was
based upon the defective character of the brake, which defect
a reasonably careful inspection by a competent inspector would
have revealed, and it was held that in permitting the employ6
to use the car without discovering the defect the company
was rendered liable to him for the damage sustained. We
have, therefore, a case in which the question of the plaintiff's
negligence has been established by a competent tribunal,
and the inquiry here is, may the terminal company recover
contribution, or, more strictly speaking, indemnity, from the
railroad company because of the damages which it has been
compelled to pay under the circumstances stated?
Nor is the question to be complicated by a decision of the
liability of the railroad company to the employ6 of the terminal
company, had the latter seen fit to bring the action against the
railroad company alone, or against both companies jointly
There seems to be a diversity of holding upon the subject of
the railroad company's liability, under such circumstances, in
courts of high authority
In Moon v Northern Pacific Railroad Company, 46 Minnesota, 106, and Pennsylvania Railroad Company v Snyder, 55
Ohio St. 342, it was held that a railroad company was liable
to an employ6 of the receiving company who had been injured
on the defective car while in the employ of the latter company
when under a traffic arrangement between the companies, the
delivering company had undertaken to inspect the cars upon
delivery, and, as in the Moon case, where there was a joint
inspection by the inspectors of both companies. This upon
the theory that the negligence of the delivering company, when
it was bound to inspect before delivery, was the primary cause
of the injury, notwithstanding the receiving company was also
guilty of an omission to mnspect the car, before permitting the
employ6 to use the same.
A different view was taken in the case of Glynn v Central
R. R. Co., 175 Massachusetts, 510, in which the opinion was
lelivered by Mr. Justice Holmes, then Chief Justice of Massa-

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opnon of the Court.

196 U. S.

chusetts, in which it was held that, as the car after coming into
the hands of the receiving company and before it had reached
the place of the accident, had crossed a point at which it should
have been inspected, the liability of the delivering company
for the defect in the car, which ought to have been discovered
upon inspection by the receiving company, was at an end. A
like- view was taken by the Supreme Court of Kansas in the
case of M., K. & T R. R. Co. v Merrill, 70 Pac. Rep. 358,
reversing its former decision in the same case reported in 61
Kansas, 671. But we do not deem the determination of this
question necessary to a decision of the present case.
OJ Coming to the very question to be determined here, the
general principle of law is well settled that one of several
wrongdoers cannot recover against another wrongdoer, although he may have been compelled to pay all the damages
for the wrong done. In many instances, however, cases have
been taken out of this general rule, and it has been held inoperative in order that the ultimate loss may be visited upon
the principal wrongdoer, who is made to respond for all the
damages, where one less culpable, although legally liable to
third persons, may escape the payment of damages assessed
against him by. putting the ultimate loss upon the one principally responsible for the injury done. These cases have, perhaps, their principal illustration in that class wherein municipalities have been held responsible for injuries to persons
lawfully using the streets in a city, because of defects in the
streets or sidewalks caused by the negligence or active fault
of a property owner. In such cases, where the municipality
has been called upon to respond because of its legal duty to
keep public highways open and free from nuisances, a recovery
over has been permitted for indemnity against the property
owner, the principal wrongdoer, whose negligence was the real
cause of the injury
Of this class of cases is Washington Gas L?ght Co. v Dtstrct
of Columbia, 161 U S. 316, in which a resident of the city of
Washington had been injured by an open gas box, placed and

UNION STOCK YDS. CO. v. CHICAGO &c. R. R. CO. 225
196 U. S.

Opinon of the Court.

maintained on the sidewalk by the gas company for its benefit.
The District was sued for damages, and, after notice to the gas
company to appear and defend, damages were awarded against
the District, and it was held that there might be a recovery by
the District against the gas company for the amount of damages which the former had been compelled to pay 4 M1any of
the cases were reviewed in the opinion of the court, and the
general principle was recognized, that notwithstanding the
negligence of one, for which he has been held to respond, he
may recover against the principal delinquent where the offense
did not involve moral turpitude, in which case there could be
no recovery, but was merely malum prohibitum, and the law
would inquire into the real delinquency of the parties, and
place the ultimate liability upon him whose fault had been
the primary cause of the injury (-The same principle has been
recognized in the Court of Appeals of the State of New York
in Oceanic Steam Nay. Co. v CompaniaTransatlanticaEspanola,
134 N. Y 461, the second proposition of the syllabus of the
case being:
"Where, therefore, a person has been compelled, by the
judgment of a court having jurisdiction, to pay damages
caused by the negligence of another, which ought to have been
paid by the wrongdoer, he may recover of the latter the amount
so paid, unless he was a party to the wrong which caused the
damage."
In a case cited and much relied upon at the bar, Cray v
Boston Gas Light Co., 114 Massachusetts, 149, a telegraph wire
was fastened to the plaintiff's chimney without his consent,
and, the weight of the wire having pulled the chimney over
into the street, to the injury of a passing traveler, an action
was brought against the property owner for damages, and
notice was duly given to the gas company, which refused to
defend. Having settled the damages at a figure which the
court thought reasonable, the property owner brought suit
against the gas company, and it was held liable. In the opinion the court said.
VOL. cxCvi-15

OCTOBER TERMI, 1904.
Opion of the Court.

196 U. S.

"When two parties, acting together, commit an illegal or
wrongful act the party who is held responsible for the act cannot have indemnity or contribution from the -other, because
both are equally culpable or partweps crmnrs, and the damage results from their joint offense. This rule does not apply
when one does the act or creates the nuisance, and the other
does not join therein, but is thereby exposed to liability and
suffers damage. lie may recover from the party whose wrongful act has thus exposed him. In such cases the parties are
not in par delicto as to each other, though as to third persons
either may be held liable."
In a later case in Massachusetts, Boston Woven Hose Co. v.
Kendall, 178 Massachusetts, 232, it was held that a manufacturer of an iron boiler known as a vulcanizer, which had
been furnished upon an order which required a boiler which
would stand a pressure of one hundred pounds to the square
inch, which order was accordingly accepted, the manufacturer
undertaking to make the boiler in a good and workmanlike
manner, but which because of a defect in that the hinge of the
door was constructed in such a way that it did not press tight
enough against the face of the boiler to stand a pressure of
75 pounds, at which pressure the packing blew out and allowed
the naphtha vapor to escape, was liable for the damages which
the hose company had been compelled to pay to one of its
employ~s injured by the accident, although the defect might
have been discovered upon reasonable inspection by the hose
company In that case the boiler was sold upon a warranty
As was said by Mr. Chief Justice Holmes, delivering the opinion
of the court:
"The very purpose of the warranty was that the boiler
should be used in the plaintiff's works with reliance upon the
defendants' judgment in a matter as to which the defendants
were experts and the plaintiff presumably was not. Whether
the false warranty be called a tort or a breach of contract, the
consequences which ensued must be taken to have been contemplated and was not too remote. The fact that the reliance

UNION STOCK YDS. CO. v. CHICAGO &c. R. R. CO. 227
196 U. S.

Opnon of the Court.

was not justified as toward the men does not do away with the
fact that the defendants invited it with notice of what might
be the consequences if it should be misplaced, and there is no
policy of the law opposed to. their being held to make their
representations good."
c.- Other cases might be cited, which are applications of the
exception engrafted upon the general rule of non-contribution
among wrongdoers, holding that the law will inquire into the
facts of a case of the character shown with a view to fastening
the ultimate liability upon the one whose wrong has been
primarily responsible for the injury sustained. In the present
case there is nothing in the facts as stated to show that any
negligence or misconduct of the railroad company caused the
defect in the car which resulted in the injury to the brakeman.
That company received the car from its owner, the Hammond
Packing Company, whether in good order or not the record
does not disclose. It is true that a railroad company owes a
duty of inspection to its employ~s as to cars received from
other companies as well as to those which it may own. Balfmore & PotomacRailroad Co. v Mackey, 157 U S. 72. But in
the present case the omission of duty for which the railroad
company was sought to be held was the failure to inspect the
car with such reasonable diligence as would have discovered
the defect in it. It may be conceded that the railroad company having a contract with the terminal company, to receive
and transport the cars furnished, it was bound to use reasonable diligence to see that the cars were turned over in good
order, and a discharge of this duty required an inspection of
the cars by the railroad company upon delivery to the terminal
company But that the terminal company owed a similar
duty to its employ6s and neglected to perform the same to the
injury of an employ6, has been established by the decision of
the Supreme Court of Nebraska already referred to.
The case then stands in this wise. The railroad company and
the terminal company have been guilty of a like neglect of
duty in failing to properly inspect the car bef6re putting it in

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

196 U. S.

use by those who might be injured thereby We do not perceive that, because the duty of inspection was first required
from the railroad company, the case is thereby brought
within the class which holds the one primarily responsible, as
the real cause of the injury, liable to another less culpable, who
may have been held to respond for damages for the injury
inflicted. It is not like the case of the one who creates a nuisance in the public streets, or who furnishes a defective dock,
or the case of the gas company, where it created the condition
of unsafety by its own wrongful act, or the case of the defective
boiler, which blew out because it would not stand the pressure
warranted by the manufacturer. In all these cases the wrongful act of the one held finally liable created the unsafe or dar.
gerous condition from which the injury resulted. The principal and moving cause, resulting in the injury sustained, was
the act of the first wrongdoer, and the other has been held
liable to third persons for failing to discover or correct the
defect caused by the positive act of the other.
In the present case the negligence of the parties has been
of the same character. Both the railroad company and the
terminal company failed by proper inspection to discover the
defective brake. The terminal company, because of its fault,
has been held liable to one sustaining an injury thereby We
do not think the case comes within that exceptional class which
permits one wrongdoer who has been mulcted in damages to
recover indemnity or contribution from another. C.
For the reasons stated, the question propounded will be
answered in the negative.

