SMALLEY v. LAUGENOUR.
196 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

tended, this could not cut off the right of removal where diversity of citizenship existed. The right to remove given by a
constitutional act of Congress cannot be taken away or abridged
by state statutes, and the case being removed, the Circuit
Court had power to so deal with the controversy that the
party could lose nothing by his choice of tribunals. Cowley
v Northern Pacific Railroad Company, 159 U S. 569. In our
opinion the appeal was improvidently prosecuted directly to
thia court, and it must, therefore, be
Dinsmised.

SMALLEY v. LAUGENOUR.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF WASHINGTON.
No. 97. Submitted November 28,190.-Decided January 3,1905.
The rights of a bankrupt to exempt property are those given by the statutes
of the States, and if such exempt property is not subject to levy and sale
under those statutes, it cannot be made to respond under the Federal
bankrupt act.
A creditor may contest the bankrupt's claim to exemption m the bankruptcy court, or may invoke the supervision and revision of the Circuit
Court of Appeals, but, failing to do that, cannot, unless the order setting the bankrupt's exemption apart be absolutely void, question its validity in another proceeding in the state court.
Nor can the judgment of the state court following the order of the bankruptcy court and giving effect to the exemption be reviewed by this court
on writ of error under ยง 709, Rev. Stat., on the ground that plaintiff in
error was denied a title, right, privilege or immunity, under the Constitution or authority of the United States specially set up or claimed in
the state court.

THIs was an action of ejectment commenced in the Superior
Court of Lincoln County, Washington, by A. F Smalley and
F McLellan against George F Laugenour and Jane Laugenour
(with two others, who subsequently ceased to be parties) to
recover possession of certain real estate situated in that county,

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

196 U. S.

The action was tried by the court without a jury, which filed
findings of fact and conclusions of law, and rendered judgment
for plaintiffs, whereupon defendants Laugenour carried the
case by appeal to the Supreme Court of Washington. The
judgment was there reversed and the cause remanded with
directions to enter judgment for appellants, defendants below
30 Washington, 307 This writ of error was then brought.
The facts were stated by that court in brief as follows:
"The appellants are husband and wife, and acquired the
land in controversy as early as the year 1885. On March 16,
1895, the respondents and one L. J Hutchings, as partners,
recovered a judgment in the Superior Court of Lincoln County
on a community debt against the appellant, Geo. F Laugenour,
for the sum of $363.45. On April 12, 1899, execution was
issued on the judgment and levied on the land mentioned,
under which, after due advertisement, it was sold at public
auction to the respondents for the sum of $532.15, being the
amount then due on the judgment. Thereafter the sale was
confirmed by the court, and, after the time for redemption had
expired, a sheriff's deed was executed and delivered to the
purchasers; which they caused to be recorded. On May 10,
1899,-three days before the execution sale took place,-the
appellant, Geo. F Laugenour, filed in the United States District Court for the District of Washington his voluntary petition in bankruptcy, in the schedule to which he listed the land
in controversy, claiming the same as exempt under the bankruptcy act. On May 11, 1899, the referee in bankruptcy, to
whom the proceedings had been referred, adjudged the petitioner a bankrupt, and thereupon gave to the creditors of the
bankrupt, shown in the schedule attached to the petition,
among whom were the respondents, the formal notice required by the bankruptcy act, notifying them of the adjudication of bankruptcy, of the time and place fixed for the first
meeting of the creditors, that they might attend at such
meeting, prove their claims, examine the bankrupt, and transact such other business as should properly come before the

SMALLEY v. LAUGENOUR.
196 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

meeting. None of the creditors appeared at the time fixed
for the meeting, viz., June 5, 1899, and no trustee was elected
or appointed, the referee finding that no necessity existed
therefor. On August 9, 1899, the bankruptcy court entered
an order discharging the bankrupt from all debts and*claims
made provable against the bankrupt's estate, and on August 12 'regularly made an order in said bankruptcy proceedings setting aside to said bankrupt as exempt under the act of
Congress relating to bankruptcy, the real estate hereinbefore
described, and awarding said real estate to the said bankrupt.'
The court further found that since the execution sale the appellants had been in possession of the real estate, claiming to
be the owners of the same, and for several years last past had
resided in Spokane County, Washington, and that the real
property, during the time, had been occupied by the defendant, Harry Gilliland, as their tenant. On the facts so found it
ruled that the respondents were the owners and entitled to the
possession of the premises, and entered judgment accordingly"
Mr C S. Voorhees, Mr Reese H. Voorhees, Mr H. A. P.
Myers and Mr W T Warren for plaintiffs in error.
Mr W C. Keegn, Mr Herman D Williams and Mr
James A. Williams for defendants in error.
MR.CHIEF JUsTIcE FULLER, after making the foregoing state-

ment, delivered the opinion of the court.
The state Supreme Court, after calling attention to the
statute of the State permitting a head of a family to select
from his or her real property a homestead of limited value,
and exempting it from the liens of general judgments and from
execution or forced sale thereunder, Ballinger's Code, ยง5214
ct seq., and to previous rulings of the court that the selection
might be made at any time before sale, Wiss v Stewart, 16'
Washington, 376, and that an execution sale thereof after such
selection was ineffectual to pass title to the purchaser, Wiss v

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opunon of the Court.

196 U. S.

Stewart; Asher v Sekofsky, 10 Washington, 379, said. "If,
therefore, the property m question was exempt from execution at the time the sale was made under the execution issued
on the respondents' judgment, the respondents acquired no
title thereto by their purchase at the execution sale, and consequently have no title on which they can maintain the present
action."
And the court held that the order of the District Judge of
the United States for the District of Washington, sitting in
bankruptcy, awarding the property to Laugenour as property
exempt from the claims of his creditors, and which related
back to the time of the filing of the petition in bankruptcy,
which was prior to the date of the attempted sale, was a judgment conclusive as between the parties that the property was
so exempt at that date.
The state court was of opinion that Laugenour and hs wife
might have pleaded and proved facts showing that the property was exempt from execution at the time of the sale, making the issue directly in the state court, but, as they chose to
rely on the principle of res judicata, that is, on the adjudication
by the bankruptcy court, having jurisdiction of person and
estate, in a proceeding in bankruptcy in which the judgmei
of Smalley and McLellan was provable, the court gave due
force and effect to that adjudication.
The jurisdiction of this court to review the final judgments
and decrees of a state court rests on section 709 of the Revised
Statutes, and in this instance must be derived from the third
division of that section, if it exist at all. And on the face of
this record we cannot find that plaintiffs in error specially set
up or claimed any title, right, privilege or immunity under
the Constitution, or any statute of or authority exercised under
the United States, which was decided against by the state
court. What seems to be complained of is that the state
Supreme Court accepted the judgment of the Federal bankruptcy court as having been rendered in the exercise of the
jurisdiction with which it was vested.

SMALLEY v. LAUGENOUR.
196 U S.

Opinon of the Court.

Plaintiffs in error were notified of the proceedings in bankruptcy, as provided by the bankruptcy act, and, if they had
desired to contest the claim to exemption, they might have
done so, or could have invoked the supervision and revision
of the order by the Circuit Court of Appeals, but they did not
do that, and could not question its validity in the state courts,
unless, indeed, it were absolutely void, which is not and could
not be pretended.
The bankruptcy court is expressly vested with jurisdiction
"to determine all claims of bankrupts to their exemptions."
ยง 2, cl. 11. Where there is a trustee he sets apart the exemptions, and reports thereon to the court, ยง47, cl. 11, where
no trustee has been appointed, under general order XV, the
court acts in the first instance.
Section 6 of the bankruptcy act provided. "This act shall
not affect the allowance to bankrupts of the exemptions which
are prescribed by the state laws in force at the time of the filing
of the petition in the State wherein they had their domicile
for the six months or the greater portion thereof immediately
preceding the filing of the petition."
The rights of a bankrupt to property as exempt are those
given him by the state statutes, and if such exempt property
is not subject to levy and sale under those statutes, then it
cannot be made to respond under the act of Congress.
In one of the parargaphs of the reply of plaintiffs in error
(plaintiffs in the court of original jurisdiction) to the answer
of defendants it was asserted that on the day their judgment
was recovered Laugenour and his wife were the owners of the
real estate in question, and the judgment became a lien thereon,
and that "said lien, which culminated in the aforesaid sale of
real estate to plaintiffs, was obtained and created pursuant to
said suit, and more than four months prior to the filing of the
alleged petition in bankruptcy;" and it is argued that this
amounted to a special assertion of an immunity under the
bankruptcy act. But immunity from what? Nothing more,
at the best, than immunity from the discharge in bankruptcy;
voL. oxcVI-7

OCTOBER TERMN,

1904.

Opunon of the Court.

196 U. S.

not from the exemptions authorized by the state statute. And
so Fullerton, J., speaking for the state Supreme Court, said.
"Lastly, it is said that the order of the court setting apart the
property as exempt does not purport to, nor does it in law,
affect existing liens upon the property set apart as exempt,
and, unless the liens thereon be such as the law avoids of its
own force, such liens may be enforced in the state court against
and to the extent of the property affected by the lien, notwithstanding the order setting it apart as exempt, and the
discharge of the debt in bankruptcy In cases of liens which
can exist independent of the question whether or not the
property is exempt, undoubtedly the rule here invoked would
be applicable, but the lien of a general judgment is not such a
lien. It is a lien upon real property, only, which is not exempt.
Hence if this property was exempt at the time of the filing of
the petition in bankruptcy, the judgment under which it was
sold was not a lien thereon, and to assume that the judgment
was a lien is to assume that it was not exempt,-the very
question at issue."
We are not able to perceive that the state Supreme Court
denied in any way a right of plaintiffs in error specially set up
or claimed under the Constitution or laws of the United States.
All that was determined, and all that the state court was called
on to determine, was the question of exemption under the
state statutes. Its acceptance of the judgment of the Federal
court in that regard does not bring the case within section 709.
Writ of error dismissed.

