SMILEY v. KANSAS.
196 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

SMILEY v. KANSAS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF KANSAS.
No. 13. Argued October 20, 21,1904.-Decided February 20, 1905.

This court will not inquire whether the finding of the jury in the state court
is against the evidence; it will take the facts as found and consider only
whether the state statute involved is violative of the Federal Constitution.
The power in the state court to determine the meaning of a state statute
carries with it the power to prescribe its extent and limitations as well as
the method by which they shall be determined.
Where the highest court of a State has held that the acts of a person convicted of violating a state statute defining and prohibiting trusts were
clearly within both the statute and the police power of the State, and
that the statute can be sustained as a prohibition of those acts irrespective
of the question whether its language was broad enough to include acts
beyond legislative control, this court will accept such construction although the state court may have ascertained the meaning, scope and
validity of the statute by pursuing a rule of construction different from
that recognized by this court.
While there is a certain freedom of contract which the States cannot destroy
by legislative enactment, in pursuance whereof parties may seek to
further their business interests, the police power of the States extends
to, and may prohibit a secret arrangement by which, under penalties,
and without any merging of interests through partnership or incorporation an apparently existing competition among all the dealers in a community m one of the necessaries of life is substantially destroyed.
The act of the legislature of Kansas of March 8, 1897, defining and prohibiting trusts, is not in conflict with the Fourteenth Amendment to the
Federal Constitution as to a person convicted thereunder of combining
with others to pool and fix the price, divide the net earnings and prevent
competition in the purchase and sale of gram.

ON March 8, 1897, the legislature of Kansas passed an act,

the first section of which is as follows:
"SEc. 1. A trust is a combination of capital, skill, or acts,
by two or more persons, firms, corporations, or associations
of persons, or either two or more of them, for either, any or all
of the following purposes: First.-To create or carry out restrictions in trade or commerce or aids to commerce, or to

OCTOBER TERMT,

1904.

Statement of the Case.

196 U. S.

carry out restrictions in the full and free pursuit of any business authorized or permitted by the laws of this State. Second.-To increase or reduce the price of merchandise, produce
or commodities, or to control the cost or rates of insurance.
Third.-To prevent competition in the manufacture, making,
transportation, sale or purchase of merchandise, produce or
commodities, or to prevent competition in aids to commerce.
Fourth.-To fix any standard or figure, whereby its price to
the public shall be, in any manner, controlled or established,
any article or commodity of merchandise, produce of commerce intended for sale, use or consumption in this State.
Fifth.-To make or enter into, or execute or carry out, any
contract, obligation or agreement of any kind or description
by which they shall bind or have to bind themselves not to
sell, manufacture, dispose of or transport any article or commodity, or article of trade, ue, merchandise, commerce or
consumption below a common standard figure or by which
they shall agree in any manner to keep the price of such article,
commodity or transportation at a fixed or graded figure, or
by which they shall in any manner establish or settle the price
of any article or commodity or transportation between them
or themselves and others, to preclude a free and unrestricted
competition among themselves or others in transportation,
sale or manufacture of any such article or commodity, or by
which they shall agree to pool, combine or unite any interest
they may have in connection with the manufacture, sale or
transportation of any such article or commodity, that its price
may in any manner be affected. And any such combinations
are hereby declared to be against public policy, unlawful and
void." Laws of Kansas, 1897, p. 481.
Subsequent sections prescribe penalties, and provide procedure for enforcing the act. On September 27, 1901, the
county attorney filed in the District Court of Rush County,
Kansas, an information charging that the defendant did, on
November 20, 1900, "then and there unlawfully enter into an
agreement, contract and combination, in the county of Rush

SMILEY v. KANSAS.
196 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff m Error.

and the State of Kansas, with divers and sundry persons,
partnerships, companies and corporations of gram dealers and
gram buyers in the town of Bison, in the said county and State
aforesaid, to wit, Humburg & Ahrens, the La Crosse Lumber
& Grain Company, the Bison Milling Company and George
Weicken, who were at the said time and place competitive
gram dealers and buyers, to pool and fix the price the said
gram dealers and buyers should pay for grain at the said place,
and to divide between them the net earnings of the said gram
dealers and buyers, and to prevent competition in the purchase and sale of gram among the said dealers and buyers."
A trial was had, the defendant was found guilty and sentenced
to pay a fine of $500, and to imprisonment in the county jail
for three months. On appeal to the Supreme Court of the
State the judgment was affirmed. 65 Kansas, 240. Whereupon this writ of error was sued out.
Mr H. Whitesude for plaintiff in errorThe act of 1897 is unconstitutional and void.
Section one goes entirely too far and is an unwarranted
attempt upon the part of the legislature to limit the rights
of the individual in the matter of contracting and dealing
with his fellow men. The liberty to contract is as much protected by the constitutional provisions above referred to as
is the liberty of person, and any attempt to abridge or limit
that right will be held void, unless such abridgement or limitation is necessary to preserve the peace and order of the community or the life, liberty and morals of individuals, in which
cases it is held to be the proper exercise of the police power
of the State. 2 Eddy on Combinations, §§ 679, 905, Niagara
Fire Ins. Co. v Cornell, 115 Fed. Rep. 816, Re Grwe, 79 Fed.
Rep. 627
The United States Constitution confers upon Congress, in
express terms, the power to regulate commerce with foreign
nations and among the several States and with the Indian
tribes. So that while Congress has that power it does not
VOL. cxovi-29

OCTOBER TERI,

1904.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

196 U. S.

follow that a state legislature has the same power. Addyston
Pipe & Steel Co. v United States, 175 U. S. 211, 228.
One Congress for the nation is a very different proposition
from 45 separate legislatures, each local m its power, and
generally hasty m its action.
The only power which a state legislature has to make any
law which would impair the right to make any contract upon
any subject is such as it possesses under the general police
power of the State, which can only be exercised in matters
which affect the peace and order of the community .or the life,
health and morals of individuals. So that the fact that the
Federal Anti Trust Law has been held constitutional is no
argument in favor of the constitutionality of the Kansas
statute. But the two statutes are very dissimilar. See the
cases cited m dissenting opinion of Justice Pollock of the
State Supreme Court m this case.
The unconstitutionality of the act in question should not
be protected by a revolutionary mode of construction. It was
contrary to the holdings of the Supreme Court of Kansas
until this case was passed on, and is against the great weight
of authority generally
When a statute is partly invalid the rule is that the rest cannot be upheld if the parts are mutually connected with and
dependent on each other. See opinion Brewer, J., m 28 Kansas
457, Warren v Mayor, 2 Gray (Mass.), 84, Slauson v Raczne,
13 Wisconsin, 398, Meshmewr v The State, 11 Indiana, 482;
McCluskey v Cromwell, 11 N. Y 601.
The legislature passed an entire statute on the supposition
that it is valid as a whole and it cannot be interpreted on any
other theory
Statutes and contracts should be read and understood according to the natural and most obvious import of the language, without resorting to subtle and forced construction
for the purpose of either limiting or extending their operation.
Courts cannot correct supposed errors, omissions or defects
in legislation or vary by construction contracts of parties.

S31ILEY v. KANSAS.
196 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

The office of interpretation is to bring sense out of the words
used, and not to bring a sense into them. Peiber's Political and
Legal Hermeneutics, 87, 2 Reuth Inst., ch. 7, §2, Story on
Const. § 392, Purdy v People, 4 Hill, 384, Waller v Harrs,
20 Wend. 562; Newell v People, 7 N. Y 97, Hyatt v Taylor,
42 N. Y 258, Johnson v H. R. R. R. Co., 49 N. Y 455, Alexander v Worthngton, 5 Maryland, 485, Sutherland's Stat.
Con. §§ 175, 237, and cases cited, United States v Harms, 106
U S. 629; Enck.ng v Simmons, 28 Wisconsin, 272, State v
Lovell, 23 Iowa, 304, Woodbury v Berry, 18 Ohio St. 456,
Dudley v Reynolds, 1 Kansas, 285, Fitzpatrw v Gebhart, 7
Kansas, 35, Ayers v Fiego County, 37 Kansas, 240; State v
Chapman, 5 Pac. Rep. 708.
It is well known that the Federal Courts will not always
follow state court constructions. Burgess v Seligman, 107
U S. 20; B. & 0 R. R. v Baugh, 149 U S. 368, Yick Wo. v
Hopktns, 118 U S. 356, Railroad & Telephone Co. v Board of
E qualizers, 85 Fed. Rep. 302, Neal v Delaware, 103 U S. 370;
Ex parte Virgnua, 100 U S. 339, Henderson v Mayor, 92 U S.
259, N Y Cen. R. R. v Lockwood, 84 U S. 17, Myrwk v
Mich. Cen. R. R., 107 U. S. 102, M., K. & T R. R. Co. v Elliot,
184 U. S. 531, Rolla v Holley, 176 U S. 408. They are disregarded m all matters of general law, or of great importance.
All agreements which may affect prices or commodities and
the conduct of business are not unlawful and cannot be made
so by legislatures. The law encourages and provides for
combination and recognizes the economical truth that the
coaperation of individuals is essential to the well being and
the progress of society Jones v Field, 5 Florida, 510; State
v Looms, 115 Missouri, 307, Eddy on Comb. §262. Nor
will the courts assume the purpose and effect of a combination
to unduly raise prices. Such purpose must be shown affirmatively Shade Roller Co. v Cushman, 143 Massachusetts, 352; Hernman v Menzws, 115 California, 16, James v
Bowman, 190 U S. 127
Courts should refrain from interfering with the conduct of

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

196 U. S.

the affairs of individuals unless such conduct in some tangible
form threatens the welfare of the public. Leslie v Lorrilard
et al., 110 N. Y 519. Neither are all combinations or contracts that tend to suppress competition or fix prices, illegal.
Matthews v Associated Press, 136 N. Y 333, Eddy on Combinations, §§ 288, 332, and cases cited, McCauley v Turney,
19 R. I. 255, Boehm Mfg. Co. v Hollis, 54 Minnesota, 223,
Richie v People, 155 Illinois, 98, Hopkins v United States, 171
U S. 578, Anderson v United States, 171 U. S. 604.
At common law only when combinations became monopolies injurious to the public, and were actually injuring
the public, could they be denounced by indictment.
The conviction of plaintiff m error was without due process
of law For definition of due process of law as involved in this
case, see Dartmouth College Case, 4 Wheat. 518, 10 Am. & Eng.
Ency Law, 2d ed., 293, Weimer v Bunbury, 30 Michigan, 201,
Brown v Commissioners, 50 Mississippi, 468, Re Ah Lee, 5
Fed. Rep. 899, Chicago &c. R. R. Co. v Chicago, 166 U. S. 266,
Pennoyer v Neff, 95 U S. 733, Rees v Watertown, 19 Wall.
107, Benton v Platten, 10 U S. App. 657, Bouvier's Law
Dictionary; Lowe v Kansas, 163 U S. 81.
Mr D R. Hite, with whom Mr C C Coleman, Attorney
General of the State of Kansas, and Mr H. J Bone were on
the brief, for defendant in errorThe combination to which plaintiff in error was a party
constituted an unlawful restraint of trade and the mvestigation as to the constitutionality of the statute will be confined
to his own grievance. Waters-Perce Oil Co. v Texas, 177
U S. 24, 43, Clark v Kansas City, 176 U S. 114.
This combination fell within the police powers of the State.
Gram is a necessity and regulating dealings in it is for the public
protection and within the powers of the States. Munn v
Illinois, 94 U S. 113, 126, Brass v North Dakota, 153 U S.
391, 402. The rule applies alike to large and small combmations. Nor Securities v United States, 193 U. S. 197, 339,

'SM1ILEY v
196 U. S.

KANSAS.

Opinion of the Court.

citing Mormss Run Coal Co. v Barclay Coal Co., 68 Pa. St.
173, 186, see dissent of Shiras, J., United States v TransMissour, 58 Fed. Rep. 84.
The act as interpreted by the Kansas Supreme Court is not
repugnant to the Federal Constitution. United States v
Freight Associatwn, 166 U S.290, 322, United States v Addyston Pipe Co., 85 Fed. Rep. 271.
Combinations and not innocent contracts are covered by this
statute. See Mr. Carter's argument, Joint Traffic Case, 171
U S.505, 515, and for definitions of combination see Bouvier,
Century and Standard Dictionaries under "Combine" and
"Trusts", Spelling on Trusts and Monopolies. See authorities as exhaustively reviewed in opinion of the Chief Justice
of the state court in this case. As to reasonable construction
of the statute in the light of surrounding circumstances, see
United States v Laws, 163 U S.258, Hawaii v Mankw hi,
190 U S.197, United States v Freight Association, 166 U S.
290, 311, United States v Joint Traffic Association, 171 U S.
505, Northern Securities v United States, 193 U. S.197
We conclude that the Supreme Court of Kansas properly
construed the act in question by limiting its general language
to acts and cases comprising unlawful combinations to restrain
the State's domestic trade and commerce, and that, thus interpreted, the act is a valid exercise of the legislative power;
that the plaintiff in error was convicted of being a party to a
conspiracy to prevent full and free competition in the purchase
of an article of prime necessity to human life, and, therefore,
is guilty of an act within the constitutional competency of the
State to punish.
MR. JusTICE

BREWER,

after making the foregoing state-

ment, delivered the opinion of the court.
The verdict of the jury settles all questions of fact.
In Missouri, Kansas &c. Ry. Co. v Haber, 169 U S.613,
639, it is said. "Much was said at the bar about the finding of

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

196 U. S.

the jury being against the evidence. We cannot enter upon
such an mquhry The facts must be taken as found by the
jury, and this court can only consider whether the statute, as
interpreted to the jury, was in violation of the Federal Constitution. Chwago, Burlington & Qusney Railroad v Chwago,
166 U S. 226, 242, 246."
We pass, therefore, to a consideration of the questions of
law It is contended that the act of 1897 is in conflict with
the Fourteenth Amendment to the Federal Constitution, in
that it unduly infringes the freedom of contract; that it is too
broad and not sufficiently definite, and that while some things
are denounced which may be within the police power of the
State, yet its language reaches to and includes matters clearly
beyond the limits of that power, and that there is no such
separation or distinction between those within and those beyond as will enable the courts to declare one part invalid and
another part void. We quote from- the brief of counsel for
plaintiff in error-

"Section one goes entirely too far and is an unwarranted
attempt upon the part of the legislature to limit the rights of
the individual in the matter of contracting and dealing with
his fellow men. The liberty to contract is as much protected
by the constitutional provisions above referred to as is the
liberty of person, and any attempt to abridge or limit that
right will be held void, unless such abridgement or limitation
is necessary to preserve the peace and order of the community
or the life, liberty and morals of individuals, m which cases it
is held to be the proper exercise of the police power of the
State."
It may be conceded for the purposes of this case that the
language of the first section is broad enough to include acts
beyond the police power of the State and the punishment of
which would unduly mfrmge upon the freedom of contract.
At any rate we shall not attempt to enter into any consideration of that question. The Supreme Court of the State held
that the acts charged and proved against the defendant were

SMILEY v. KANSAS.
196 t. S.

Opunon of the Court.

clearly within the terms of the statute, as well as within the
police power of the State, and that the statute could be sustamed as a prohibition of those acts irrespective of the question whether its language was broad enough to include acts
and conduct which the legislature could not rightfully restrain.
It is well settled that m cases of this kind the interpretation
placed by the highest court of the State upon its statutes is
conclusive here. We accept the construction given to a state
statute by that court. St. L., I. M. & St. P Ry. Co. v Paul,
173 U. S. 404, 408, M., K. & T Ry. Co. v McCann, 174 U S.
580, 586, Tullis v L. E. & W R. R. Co., 175 U S. 348. Nor
is it material that the state court ascertains the meaning and
scope of the statute as well as its validity by pursuing a different rule of construction from what we recognize. It may be
that the views of the Kansas court in respect to this matter
are not in harmony with those expressed by us in United States
v Reese, 92 U S. 214, Trade-Mark Cases, 100 U S. 82, United
States v Hams, 106 U S. 629, and Baldwnn v Franks, 120
U. S. 678. We shall not stop to consider that question nor
the reconciliation of the supposed conflicting views suggested
by the Chief Justice of the State. The power to determine
the meaning of a statute carries with it the power to prescribe
its extent and limitations as well as the method by which'they
shall be determined.
The transaction, as shown by the testimony, was practically
this: There were four dealers in wheat in Bison, a small village
in Rush County, situated on the Missouri Pacific Railroad.
Three of them owned elevators and one a mill. They were
competitors in the purchase of gram. The defendant was
secretary of the State Gram Dealers' Association. He was
not himself in the gram business nor interested in that of
either of the four dealers. He came to Bison for the purpose
of investigating some clamis of Bison firms against the Missouri
Pacific Railroad. While there he induced these dealers to
enter into an arrangement by which if one bought and shipped
more gram than the others that excess purchaser would pay

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

196 U. S.

them a certain per cent. As security for such agreement the
parties deposited their checks for $100 each with the defendant. They made to him weekly reports of the amount of gram
purchased. If one had purchased more than his share he paid
the defendant three cents a bushel for the excess, and that
amount was then divided among the other dealers. Upon
these facts, under appropriate instructions, the jury found
the defendant guilty
That the transaction was within the letter of the statute,
m that it tended to prevent competition m the purchase of
merchandise, is not open to doubt. It is also within the spirit
of the statute. It imposed an unreasonable restraint upon
competition. It is stated by counsel for plaintiff m error in
his brief that not far from Bison were a number of other small
towns, at which the principal commercial business was the
buying and selling of wheat. But where there were four
buyers, as in Bison, apparently competing, farmers nearer to
Bison than to other villages, if not farmers more remote,
would naturally seek that place in order to benefit by the
competition. They would find an apparent competition, and
yet each buyer was restrained by this contract from seeking
to purchase more than his fourth of the wheat coming to the
market, or if he purchased more, must necessarily in order to
make his profit, buy his wheat at three cents a bushel less than
what he might otherwise pay, that being the penalty for an
excess purchase. It was not an open agreement in respect to
price, nor one that enabled sellers to know in advance exactly
what they could get for their wheat.
Undoubtedly there is a certain freedom of contract which
cannot be destroyed by legislative enactment. In pursuance
of that freedom parties may seek to further their business
interests, and it may not be always easy to draw the line
between those contracts which are beyond the reach of the
police power and those which are subject to prohibition or
restraint. But a secret arrangement, by which, under penalties, an apparently existing competition among all the dealers

SMILEY v. KANSAS.
196 U. S.

Opinion of tie Court.

in a community in one of the necessaries of life is substantially

destroyed, without any merging of interests through partnership or incorporation, is one to which the police power extends. That is as far as we need to go in sustaining the
judgment in this case. That is as far as the Supreme Court
of the State went. If other transactions are presented, in
which there is an absolute freedom of contract beyond the
power of the legislature to restrain, which come within the
letter of any of the clauses of this statute, the courts will undoubtedly exclude them from its operation. As said by the
Supreme Court of the State concerning the defendant's criticism of the breadth of this statute (p. 247)
"He cannot be heard to object to the statute merely because
it operates oppressively upon others. The hurt must be to
himself. The case, under appellant's contention as to this
point, is not a case of favoritism in the law It is not a case of
exclusion of classes who ought to have been included, the
leaving out of which constitutes a denial of the equal protection of the law, but it is the opposite of that. It is a case of
the inclusion of those who ought to have been excluded.
Hence, unless appellant can show that he himself has been
wrongfully included in the terms of the law, he can have no
just ground of complaint. This is fundamental and decisively
settled. City of Kansas City v Railway Co., 59 Kansas, 427,
affirmed under the title Clark v Kansas City, 176 U S.114,
Supervisors v Stanley, 105 U S.305, 311, Pittsburg&c. R. Co.
v Montgomery, 152 Indiana, 1.,
We see no error in the judgment of the Supreme Court of
Kansas, and it is

Affired.

