TEXAS & PACIFIC RY CO. v. SWEARINGEN.

51

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

196 U. S.

TEXAS & PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY v. SWEARINGEN.
ERROR TO THE

CIRCUIT

COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE

FIFTH

CIRCUIT.
No. 48. Submitted November 3,1904.-Decided December 19, 1904.

An employ6 is entitled to assume that his employer has used due care to
provide reasonably safe appliances for the doing of his work. Knowledge of the increased hazard resulting from the negligent location in
dangerous proximity to a railroad track of a structure will not be imputed
to an employ6, using ordinary diligence to avoid it if properly located,
because he was aware of its existence and general location. It is for the
jury to determine from all the evidence whether he had actual knowledge
of the danger.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr John F Dillon, Mr D D Duncan and Mr T J Freeman for plaintiff in errorIn every case before the evidence is left to the jury, there is
a preliminary question for the judge, not whether there is
literally no evidence, but whether there is any evidence upon
which a jury can properly proceed to find a verdict for the
party producing it, upon whom the burden of proof is imposed. Improvement Co. v Munson, 14 Wall. 448, Commissioners &c. v Clark, 94 U S. 278, 284, Pleasants v Fant, 22
Wall. 120; Randall v B. & 0. Ry. Co., 109 U S. 482, Railway
Co. v Converse, 139 U S. 469, Schofield v C., M. & St. P
Ry. Co., 114 U S. 615, Steamshp Co. v Merchant, 133 U S.
375.

When a servant enters into the employment of another he
assumes all the risks ordinarily incident to the business. He
is presumed to have contracted in reference to all the hazards
and risks ordinarily incident to the employment; consequently
he cannot recover for injuries resulting to him therefrom.
The servant takes the risks of the master's mode of con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

196 U. S.

ducting his business, though a safer one might be followed,
if the servant fully knows the risk and continues to work.
There are risks and dangers incident to most employments,
those risks the parties have in view when engagements for
services are made, and in consideration of which the rate of
compensation is fixed. In all engagements of this character
the servant assumes those risks that are incident to the service,
and as between himself and the master he is supposed to have
contracted on those terms, and if an injury is sustained by the
servant in that service, it is regarded as an accident, and the
misfortune must rest on him. Woods' Master & Servant,
2d ed. ยง 326, 3 Woods' Railway Law, ยง 370, p. 1452, 14 Am.
& Eng. Ency of Law, 843, 845, Tex. & Pac. Ry. Co. v Minnick, 57 Fed. Rep. 362, Tuttle v Railway, 122 U S. 189, Randall v Railway, 109 U S. 478, H. & T C Ry. Co. v Conrad,
62 Texas, 627, Woodworth v St. P., M. & M. Ry. Co., 18 Fed.
Rep. 282, Mo. Pac. Ry. Co. v Summers, 71 Texas, 700; Green
v Cross & Eddy, Receivers, 79 Texas, 130; Naylor v Railway
Co., 5 Am. & Eng. R. R. Cases, 406, Wonder v Baltsmore Ry.
Co., 32 Maryland, 411, Crilly v. Texas & Pac. Ry. Co., 53 Am.
& Eng. R. R. Cases, 104, Kohn v McNulty, Receiver, 147 U. S.
238.
When the proof establishes a usage or custom, the presumption is that the employ6 contracted with regard to said usage
or custom, and if he seeks to avoid its force and effect, the
burden is upon him to show that its existence had been concealed from him by the company, and that he did not know
of same, nor could have known of same, by the use of ordinary
diligence. Watson v Railway Co., 58 Texas, 438, St. Louis
& S. W v Spivey, 73 S. W Rep. 973.
It is the duty of the master to advise the servant, or to
inform him, of the dangers incident to the employment, if the
servant is ignorant of them. If the dangers are obvious and
patent, and the servant advises himself, of course the duty of
being advised by the master would not be imposed. Gulf,
Colo. & S. F6 Ry. Co. v. Darby, 57 S. W Rep. 446.

TEXAS &-PACIFIC RY. CO. v
196 U. S.

SWEARINGEN.

Opmion of the Court.

Mr Legh Clark for defendant in error, cited Cent. Trust
Co. v E. T V & G Ry. Co., 73 Fed. Rep. 661, Tex. & Pac.
Ry. Co. v Archibald, 170 U S. 674, George v Clark, 85 Fed.
Rep. 607, Gulf, Colo. & S. F Ry. Co. v Darby, 67.S. W Rep.
(Texas) 446, G., H. & S. A. Ry. Co. v Mortson, 71 S. W Rep.
(Texas) 707, Grand Trunk Ry. Co. v Ives, 144 U S. 408, 417,
Gardner v Mich. Cent. Ry. Co., 150 U S. 349, 361, Rwhmond
& D Ry. Co. v Powers, 149 U S. 44, Mo. Pac. Ry. Co. v.
Everett, 161 U S. 451.
MR. JUsTIcE WHiTE delivered the opinion of the court.

This suit was commenced m a state court by W W Swearingen, the defendant in error, and, on the application of the
defendant, the Texas and Pacific Railway Company, was removed to the Circuit Court of the United States as one arising
under the laws of the United States, because the railway company was chartered under an act of Congress.
The action was to recover damages for personal injuries
sustained by reason of the alleged negligence of the defendant
company, in whose service at the time of the injury the plaintiff was employed as a switchman. The negligence alleged on
the part of the company was the existence, in close proximity
to a switch track, of a scale box, by striking against which the
plaintiff was injured whilst doing duty as a switchman. In
addition to a general denial the railway company specially
pleaded that the scale box in question was at a safe distance
from the track on which the plaintiff was hurt when working
and, moreover, that the plaintiff had assumed the risk, if any,
arising from the situation of the scale box, and had in any
event been guilty of contributory negligence. There was a
verdict and judgment for the plaintiff, and an affirmance of
such judgment by the Court of Appeals. 122 Fed. Rep. 193.
The assignments of error are based, first, on a ruling of the
trial court in rejecting evidence, second, on the refusal to direct a verdict; and, third, on an exception taken to the charge

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

196 U. S.

given to the jury To pass upon them requires an appreciation of the proof, and, therefore, before coming to consider the
assignments, we summarize the testimony
The accident occurred after dark on the evening of February 7, 1902, in the switch yard at El Paso. It was shown that
in that yard there were several tracks. One track, No. 1, ran
over the bed of the scales in question. On the right of this
scale there was what was called a scale box, which rose to about
the height of six feet, and was about five feet wide and eighteen
inches deep. On the other side of this structure there was a
track described as track No. 2, and beyond this, to the right,
were two other tracks, known respectively as track No. 3 and
track No. 4. The space between a ladder on the side of a
freight car when moving on track No. 2 and the scale box m
question was shown by the evidence to be only 193- inches.
The plaintiff testified concerning the accident as follows:
"I was hurt on the evening of the 7th of February, 1902,
while working as a switchman after dark, at about 6 o'clock
and 45 minutes.
"I was a day switchman, but we worked until after dark.
"My duties as a switchman were to assist in the moving,
placing and switching of cars, coupling and uncoupling them,
and making up trains, and generally to obey the order of
Yardmaster Moore, under whom we were working, and my
duties also required me to ride on the cars while they were
being moved.
"On this night we were making up a transfer to take to the
Southern Pacific Railway, and the cars we had to get were on
No. 2 track. My station was with the engine, called 'following the engine,' I worked up near the engine.
"The engine was at the west end of the yard, west of track
No. 2, with me with it, and it backed down east into No. 2 track,
with me riding on the footboard at the east end of the engine,
to get these cars, and we passed the scale box, although I did
not see it, and reaching the cars I coupled the engine to them,
and not getting a signal from the yardmaster, who was still

TEXAS & PACIFIC RY. CO. v. SWEARINGEN.
Opinion of the Court.

196 U. S.

farther east of me, as was also the other switchman, Williams,
I walked east down the string of cars about two car lengths,
and getting the signal I passed the same to the engineer, and
the engine and cars started up again going west so as to go out
on another track, and as the cars started I got up on a box car
to ride down past the switch at the west end of track No. 2,
so as to throw the switch and let the train on another track.
"There is a ladder on the side of a box car, and a step called
a stirrup under the ladder under the bottom of the car, and I
was holding on to the ladder with my hands (illustrating by
holding his hands above his head as if climbing a ladder), and
my lantern was hanging on my right arm, and I was looking
back east for a signal from the yardmaster, as it is my duty
to do. I do not know whether he wanted to give one or not,
but it is my duty to be on the lookout, although I do not have
to look in his direction all the time, when my right shoulder
struck- the scale box, and I fell down between the scale box
and the cars, and I was dragged and badly injured. We had
probably eight or ten cars at the time, and I was riding properly and hanging out a little from the car, which is proper, and
I was on the north side of the car, which is also proper, so as
to signal the engineer."
The employ6 who built the scales testified as follows:
"It is my business to know how much a car passing on a
side track will clear the scale box, and these tracks at this
place are standard gauge apart, and the scale box is standard,
and as I had to put the scale box there to facilitate business
and for convenience, I had no more room because the lever
of the scale is a certain length to get the fulcrum. The tracks
are standard, and are not farther apart, because there is no
more room to put them farther apart.
"The distance that I put this scale box from track No. 2 is
standard, and is considered a safe and proper distance in
putting in scales where the tracks are standard guage apart.
*

*

*

*

*

*

*

OCTOBER TERMI,

1904.

Opimon of the Court.

196 U. S.

"I am bound to put my scales m according to the length
of the lever, and if tracks are already there and are standard
distance apart I have a uniform and standard distance from
the tracks.
"We have side tracks at most places on each side of the
scales. The tracks in this yard are standard guage apart, and
where ground is scarce we have to economize in space, but
where ground is plenty the tracks can be farther apart."
The evidence for the company also showed that the scales
in question had been erected a number of years prior to the
happening of the accident and after tracks Nos. 1 and 2 were
built. The superintendent of terminals of the defendant company testified that "south of track No. 4 there is a space left
for four or five more tracks." The same witness also stated
that the customary position of a switchman while riding on a
car and ladder "is to swing out from the car with his body,"
and that "a well-developed man cannot safely pass by the
scale box on track No. 2, while riding on a side of a car on the
ladder, if he hangs out from the car."
There was evidence that at other yards than the one in
question the distances from the side of a standard box car to
adjoining scale boxes varied from sixteen inches to one hundred
and sixty-eight inches.
Testimony was introduced tending to show that the plaintiff, before he was hurt, knew of the proximity of the scale
box to track No. 2. Concerning his employment and knowledge of the location of the scales, plaintiff testified that he had
made one trip as extra brakeman in the service of the railway
company in January, 1900; that in December, 1901, as brakeman, he made about one trip between El Paso and Toyah,
that he had worked in the El Paso yards, as extra switchman,
two nights and three days m January, 1902, and went to work
there regularly as switchman on February 1, 1902. He denied
any recollection of ever having worked on track No. 2 during
his employment in January, 1902, and, referring to his employment in the early days of February, 1902, plaintiff says:

TEXAS & PACIFIC RY
196 U. S.

CO. v. SWEARINGEN.

57

Opinion of the Court.

"During the seven days I worked for defendant we never
used this No. 2 track at the west end, or near the scales, and I
never saw a car on track No. 2, opposite the scales, and never
had my attention called to the distance between the track and
scale box. I never measured or approximated the distance to
it. Nothing ever occurred to attract my attention to it.
"I knew we had to pass the scale box at the time I was hurt,
so as to get to the switch beyond, but I was not thinking about
it, and I did not see it when we passed it going in after these
cars.
"The switch engine had a headlight lighted at both ends,
and I was on the footboard at the rear of the engine, which
put me m front while we were backing into track No. 2
after the cars, but the headlights were not very clean or
bright.
"There was nothing to hide the scale box from my view;
it was perfectly open and apparent."
Plaintiff further testified.
"I knew the location of the scale before I was hurt. I
knew it was between tracks Nos. 1 and 2, but I did not
know anything with reference to its proximity to track No.
2, and did not know it was dangerously close to track No. 2.
"At the time I was hurt I had no knowledge of the distance between the scale box and No. 2 track.
"I set cars on the scale on track No. 1 to be weighed, but
I would be on the north side of the cars on track No. 1, and
as the scale box is on the south side I could not see it. I
had nothing to do with the scale box and had no business
around it.
"I first learned the exact distance between the scale box
and the nearest rail of track No. 2 a few days ago, when I
went down and measured it at your (referring to plaintiff's
attorney) recommendation.
" I was never warned about the danger of getting knocked
off of cars by this scale box, and at the time I was hurt I

OCTOBER TERMI, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

196 U. S.

was attending to my work, and thinking about my duties,
and looking for a signal from the yardmaster, and was not
thinking about the box. I did not see it immediately prior
to the time I struck it.
"The scale box was at the same place, when I struck it.,
as it was when I first went to work for defendant."
The evidence was closed by the offer on behalf of the company of portions of a written application by plaintiff for employment as brakeman, dated February 22, 1900. After stating that the plaintiff identified the application, the bill of
exceptions recites as follows:
"Defendant then offered in evidence the following portions
of said application, consisting of questions and the answers
thereto written by the plaintiff, for the purpose of showing
that plaintiff had notice of the location of said track scale
box, and that he was in danger of being knocked off of a car
when passing the same
"Question. 'Do you make this application for employment
in train service, realizing the hazardous nature of such employment, understanding that it is necessary in operating this
railway for the company to have overhead and truss bridges
at certain points on the line, also coal chutes, track scale
boxes, water tanks, coal houses, platforms, sheds, roofs and
other overhead and side structures, and that m performance
of the duties for which you are employed you are liable to
receive injuries by being knocked off the side or top of cars,
unless you use due care to avoid injury thereby?'
"Answer. 'Yes.'
" Question. 'Do you agree to acquaint yourself with the
location of all overhead and truss bridges, as well as the location of all other structures along the line of the road?'
" Answer. 'Yes.'
"Question. 'Do you understand that no officer or employ6
of this company is authorized to request or require you to use
defective tracks, cars, machinery or appliances of any kind,
and that when you do so you assume all risk of injury therefrom?'

TEXAS & PACIFIC RY CO. 7,.SWEARINGEN.
196 U. S.

59

Opinion of the Court.

"Answer. 'Yes.'
"Question. 'Do you understand that this company desires
to employ only experienced men in the service, and does not
undertake to educate inexperienced men?'
"Answer. 'Yes.'
"Counsel for plaintiff objected to the said testimony for the
reason that it was irrelevant and immaterial, and that plaintiff had made this application and entered the employ of defendant, and afterwards resigned, and again entered the employ of the defendant some two years later, without making
another application, and also because it was an effort on the
part of defendant to limit its liability for its own negligence,
and void as against public policy, and because the particular
location of this track scale box is not given, and the court having sustained plaintiff's objections and excluded said testimony, the defendant then and there excepted to the action
of the court in excluding said evidence, and tenders this, its
bill of exceptions, which is allowed, signed and sealed by the
court."
The first assignment of error assails the affirmance by the
Court of Appeals of the action of the trial court in refusing to
receive in evidence the matter just referred to.
These excerpts were offered in evidence, as stated in the bill
of exceptions, "for the purpose of showing that plaintiff had
notice of the location of said track scale box, and that he was
in danger of being knocked off a car when passing the same."
The application was made in February, 1900, and was for
employment, not as switchman, but as brakeman. The employment of the plaintiff with the defendant company following the application was in December, 1901, when the plaintiff
as a brakeman made about a dozen trips between R1 Paso and
a place called Toyah. His subsequent employment as switchman commenced but a short time before the happening in
February, 1902, of the accident complained of.
We think the trial court rightly excluded the offered evidence. In the first place, the defendant had testified that

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

196 U. S.

before the accident he had knowledge of the existence of the
scale box. In the next place, while undoubtedly the statements in the application tended to show that the plaintiff was
aware of the generally hazardous nature of the employment
and the necessity of the exercise of care m working with and
about the instrumentalities employed by the company m the
operation of its railroad, the recognition of these facts by the
plaintiff and his agreement to acquaint himself with the location of bridges and other structures on the line of the road did
not tend to establish notice, communicated to the plaintiff,
that the defendant company had not exercised due care in
placing scales or scale boxes on its tracks, or that the company
had by its negligence increased the ordinary hazards to be
expected from the use of such structures, and that by the
exercise of ordinary care on his part plaintiff could not escape
injury The evidence was, therefore, immaterial in the light
of the issue upon which the jury had to pass.
At the close of all the evidence the defendant company
requested the court to charge the jury to return a verdict for
the defendant, and to the overruling of such motion the defendant company duly excepted. The second assignment
alleges error in the affirmance by the Court of Appeals of the
action of the trial court denying this motion.
The right to have the jury instructed to find for the company was based upon the following contentions:
"a. Because the undisputed evidence established that said
track scale box erected in the defendant's yard, and under the
circumstances in a reasonably safe place, and at a reasonably
safe distance and location from track No. 2, on which track
plaintiff was riding at the time he was injured.
"b. Because plaintiff testified he knew of the location of the
track scale box and the location of track No. 2, with reference
to said track scale box, on which track No. 2 he was riding at
the time he was hurt, and because the undisputed evidence
shows that the track scale box and the danger of the same
was open and obvious to the view of plaintiff, and that neither

TEXAS & PACIFIC RY. CO. v. SWEARINGEN.
196 U. S.

61

Opinion of the Court.

the track scale box nor the dangers thereof were hidden or
latent, and plaintiff was presumed to know the danger and
assumed the risks thereof.
"c. Because the uncontroverted testimony established the
fact that plaintiff knew of the location of the track scale box,
and location of said track No. 2, with reference to said track
scale box, on which track he was riding at the time he was hurt,
and that the track scale box, and the dangers of the same, were
open and obvious to the view of plaintiff, and not hidden or
latent, and plaintiff was presumed to know the danger and
assumed the risk."
The motion was properly overruled. So far from it being
the fact, as asserted, that the evidence established indisputably
the existence of the grounds upon which the motion was based,
the record shows that there was evidence tending to establish
that the track scale box was not erected in a reasonably safe
place, and that, although the plaintiff knew that the scale
box was situated adjacent to track No. 2, he did not know
that it was so near that it could not be passed, in the performance of his duties as a switchman, without danger. This
is apparent when it is borne in mind that the plaintiff testified,
in substance, that prior to the accident he had not closely
inspected the scale box or taken measurements of the distance from the box to the north rail of track No. 2, and that
he did not do more than cursorily observe the structure from
a distance, and that he was unaware of the nearness of the
scale box to the north rail of track No. 2.
Prma jace, the location of scales where the tracks were
only the standard distance apart, and where a space of less
than two feet was left for the movements of a switchman between the side of a freight car and the scale box, encumbered
as he would be in the night time, with a lantern employed for
the purpose of signalling, did not incontestably establish the
performance by the defendant company of the duty imposed
upon it to use due care to provide a reasonably safe place for
the use of the switchmen in its employ And so far from the

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opnion of the Court.

196 U. S.

proof making it certain that the necessity of the situation required the erection of the structure between tracks Nos. 1 and 2
as existing, there was proof that the railway company owned
unoccupied ground, intended for other tracks, to the south
of track No. 4, justifying the inference that the distance between tracks Nos. 1 and 2 might have been increased, and the
employment of the scales thus rendered less hazardous to
switchmen, or that the scales might have been removed to a
safer location.
It was, therefore, properly a question for the determination
of the jury whether or not the scales were maintained in a
reasonably safe place, and if not, whether the plaintiff had
notice thereof. The Court of Appeals was of opinion, and
rightly we think, that the dangerous contiguity of the scale
box to track No. 2, and the extra hazard to switchmen resulting
therefrom, was not so open and obvious on other than a close
inspection, as to justify taking from the jury the determination of the question whether there had been an assumption of
the risk. The plaintiff was entitled to assume that the defendant company had used due care to provide a reasonably
safe place for the doing by him of the work for which he had
been employed, and as the fact that the defendant company
might not have performed such duty in respect to the scale
box in question was not so patent as to be readily observable,
the court could not declare, in view of the testimony of the
plaintiff as to his actual want of knowledge of the danger,
that he had assumed the hazard incident to the actual situation. Choctaw, 0 & G R. R. v McDade, 191 U S. 64,
68.
The remaining assignment of error questions the correctness of the following portion of the charge to the jury"The defendant claims that the plaintiff knew of the existence and location of the scale box with which he came in contact, and that by continuing in the work, with such knowledge,
he assumed all risks incident to and arising out of his employment. Upon this point you are instructed that if you believe

TEXAS & PACIFIC RY
196 U. S.

CO r SWEARINGEN.

63

Opinion of the Court.

from the testimony that prior to the plaintiff's injuries he
knew of the existence and location of the scale box, and of the
danger incident to the discharge of his duties while passing
the same on a moving train, if danger there was; or, if knowing of the location of the structure, the danger to the employ6s while in the usual discharge of their duties was apparent, that is open to observation, then- you are instructed
that the plaintiff, by continuing in the employment of the defendant without complaint, assumed such risks, and he would
not, therefore, be entitled to recover. In this connection you
are further instructed that the mere fact that the plaintiff
knew of the existence and location of the scale box would not,
as a matter of law, charge him with knowledge of the danger,
if such danger there was, due to its proximity to the north rail
of track No. 2, and whether he knew of the danger is a question
of fact for you to determine from a consideration of all the
facts and circumstances in evidence."
The grounds of the objection to the charge being thus stated.
"Because the proof showed that plaintiff knew of the location of the track scale box, and of track No. 2, on which he was
riding at the time he was hurt, in reference to a scale box, and
that the same and the location thereof was open and obvious
to plaintiff's view, and being an experienced brakeman, he was
charged with notice that riding on the cars as he did was
dangerous, and he assumed the risks thereof, and the court
should have so charged the jury"
This assignment but reiterates contentions made in connection with the assignment based on the alleged error in
overruling the motion for judgment. As we have already decided that knowledge of the increased hazard resulting from
the dangerous proximity of the scale box to the north rail of
track No. 2 could not be imputed to the plaintiff simply because he was aware of the existence and general location of the
scale box, it was for the jury to determine, from a consideration
of all the facts and circumstances in evidence, whether plaintiff
had actual knowledge of the danger.

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

196 U. S.

We find no error m the judgment of the Circuit Court of
Appeals, and it is
Afirmed.

LEE v. ROBINSON.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF SOUTH CAROLINA.
No. 8. Argued December 6, 7, 1904.-Decided December 19, 1904.
Article IX, ยง 10, of the constitution of South Carolina of 1868, forbidding,
except as specially authorized in the constitution, the issue of scrip or
other evidence of state indebtedness except for the redemption of existing indebtedness of the State, forbade the issue of scrip under an act
passed in 1872 to take up the State's guaranty of railroad bonds under
an act passed in 1868 subsequent to the ratification of the constitution,
notwithstanding that acts had been passed in 1852 and 1851 authorizing
such guaranty, it appearing that the guaranty had not actually been
endorsed on the bonds prior to the ratification of the constitution and that
the act of 1868 was not an adjustment of an old debt but the granting of
new aid to the railroad and the authorizing of an original issue of bonds.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr William H Lyles for plaintiff in error.
Mr D W Robinson for defendant in error.
Mr William Elliott, Jr., by leave of the court, ified a brief
as amzws cur'tce.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action to recover land, brought by Robinson, the
defendant in error, a citizen and resident of North Carolina,
against Lee, a citizen and resident of South Carolina, on the
ground that Robinson had purchased the land at a tax sale.

