OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Syllabus.

196 U. S.

in bankruptcy, to be administered under the direction of the
bankruptcy court, while subject to correction in the mode
appropriate for the correction of errors, Lockwood v Exchange
Bank, 190 U S. 294, does not create a question of jurisdiction
proper to be passed upon by this court by a direct appeal under
the provisions of the act of March 3, 1891. Denver First Natwnal Bank v Klug, 186 U S. 202, 204, and cases cited. It
necessarily results from the foregoing that as the bankruptcy
court determined that the proceeds of the insurance policies
in the hands of the trustee were assets of the estate in bankruptcy and not exempt property of the bankrupt, the jurisdiction existed to proceed to adjudicate the validity of an alleged
equitable lien upon such property Hutchsnson v Otis, 190
U S. 552, 555.
As, therefore, upon the record before us, the jurisdiction of
the court was not in issue within the meaning of the act of
March 3, 1891, the direct appeal to this court was not properly
brought, and the order must be
Appeal dismssed.

WOLFF v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
No. 62. Argued November 11, 1904.-Decided January 3,1905.

An object which subserves the use of streets need not necessarily be considered an obstruction although it may occupy some part of the space of
the street.
The duty, of a city to specially illuminate and guard the place where an
object is depends upon whether such object is an unlawful obstruction.
Under §§ 222 and 233, Rev. Stat., District of Columbia, the Distnct is not prohibited from permitting a stepping-stone on any part of the street because
it is an obstruction per se nor is the District required to specially illuminate
and guard the place where such stepping-stone is located.

WOLFF v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
196 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

THI is an action for damages for injury caused to plaintiff
in error (who was also plaintiff below) by an alleged negligent
omission of duty by the District of Columbia.
On the twenty-seventh of October, 1895, about nine o'clock
in the evening, plaintiff had occasion to visit Sangerbund Hall,
a house on C street, in the city of Washington. On coming out,
and for the purpose of approaching a wagon which was standing in the street, he walked rapidly across the sidewalk and,
by falling over a block of stone called a stepping-stone or
carriage step, which was on the sidewalk near the curb, broke
his leg. Some time subsequently he was compelled to submit
to its amputation.
The charge against the city was that it was a body corporate
and municipal, and had the power, and was its duty, to keep
the sidewalks free of obstructions and nuisances, one of which,
it was alleged, said stone was. And further, that it was the
duty of the District of Columbia to keep the streets properly
lighted. In neglect of both, it was alleged, it did "allow and
suffer" the stone to be securely fastened into and remain upon
the sidewalk, and did "keep and continue" it there during the
nighttime of the twenty-seventh of October, without a light
to show its presence or a watchman to notify wayfarers of its
existence. Damages were laid at $25,000. The District of
Columbia pleaded not guilty A jury was impanelled. At
the conclusion of the testimony the District moved the court
to instruct a verdict for it on the ground that the plaintiff had
not made out a case. The motion was granted, and a verdict
rendered in accordance with the instructions. A motion for a
new trial was made and denied, and the case was then taken
to the Court of Appeals, which affirmed the judgment of the
court below 21 D C. App. 464.
Mr John C. Gittings, with whom Mr D W Baker was on
the brief, for plaintiff in errorThe stepping-stone was an unlawful obstruction per se.
Sees. 222-230, Rev Stat., Dist. of Col., Drst. of Col. v Libbey,

OCTOBER TERAI, 1904,
Argument for Defendant in Error.

196 U. S.

9 D C. App. 321, Curry v Dist. of Col., 14 D 0.App. 423,
United States v Cole, 18 D C. App. 504, Scranton v Catterson,
94 Pa. St. 203, Dams v City of Austin, 22 Tex. Civ App. 460.
The District of Columbia is liable to the same extent as other
municipalities are. Barnes v Dist. of Col., 91 U S. 540;
Woodbury v Dist. of Col., 136 U S. 450. Dubois v Kingston,
102 N. Y 219; Roberts v Powell, 168 N. Y 411, on which defendant in error relies can be distinguished.
It was the duty of the District of Columbia to so light this
street as to show the existence of this stone.
Mr E. H. Thomas, with whom Mr Andrew B Duvall was
on the brief, for defendant in errorNo duty of the municipality was violated by permitting this
stone to remain on the sidewalk. It was not, m view of its
size and location, an unlawful obstruction, or a nuisance. See
Building Regulation, January 1, 1877, p. 23, § 23, June 3,
1882, p. 23, § 23, November 1, 1899, p. 24, §4, June 26,1891,
p. 27, § 11, December 1, 1892, p. 28, § 10; May 2, 1894, p. 31,
§ 10; August 8, 1892, Art. VIII, § 3, p. 14, March 12, 1895,
p. 23, Present Police Regulations, Art. VIII, § 10, p. 38,
Webb's Digest, 65, Act of March 3, 1891, Bldg. Reg., pp. 80-89;
O'Lnd v Lothrop, 21 Pick. 292, 297, 2 Dillon Mumc. Corp.
§734, Howes v Dist. of Col., 2 D C. App. 193, Dist. of Col. v
Libbey, 9 D C. App. 325, Nor Transp. Co. v Chwago, 99 U. S.
635, Dubois v Kingston, 102 N. Y 219, Robert v Powell, 16
N. Y 414.
Municipalities must exercise ordinary care m the construction and maintenance of streets and sidewalks, but that duty
is not violated by permitting a carriage block of the usual size
to occupy the usual position of such blocks on the sidewalk,
near the curb, and not upon that portion of the sidewalk which
is designed for the use of pedestrians going upon or passing
along the walk. Cincinnati v Fleisher,63 Ohio St. 229. A
hitching post is not a defect. Macomber v Taunton, 100
Massachusetts, 255, Rockford v Tripp, 83 Illinois, 247 A

WOLFF v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
196 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

city's failure to place a fence around a water hydrant which
is properly located cannot render it liable for an injury caused
by a traveler driving against it. Vincennes v Thuis, 63 N. E.
Rep. 315, Canavanv Oil City, 183 Pa. St. 611.
A municipality has the discretionary power to locate a fire
plug on a sidewalk. Homer v Philadelphta, 194 Pa. St. 542.
Plaintiff in error was bound to exercise ordinary care.
Howes v Dist. of Col., 2 D C. App. 188, Allis v Columbzan
Unsversity, 19 D C. App. 270; Dist. of Col. v Ashton, 14 D. C.
App. 579; Swart v Dtst. of Col., 17 D C. App. 412, Qusmby v
Filter, 62 N. J L. 766, Moore v Rchmond, 85 Virginia, 538.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

1. The first contention of plaintiff in error is that the stone
was an unlawful obstruction, per se. This is deduced as a
consequence from section 222 of the Revised Statutes of the
District of Columbia, which reads as follows:
"No open space, public reservation, or other public grounds
in the city of Washington, nor any portion of the public streets
and avenues of said city, shall be occupied by any private
person or for any private purpose whatever."
This section cannot be construed to prohibit putting upon
a street any object without regard to its effect on the use of
the street. The sweeping character of such a construction
need not be pointed out. There are objects which subserve
the use of streets and cannot be considered obstructions to
them, although some portion of their space may be occupied.
This is illustrated by a number of cases.
In Dubois v City of Kingston, 102 N. Y 219, a steppingstone three feet four inches in length and twenty inches wide
was placed on the edge of the sidewalk. The court observed
that the stone was not of unusual size or located in an improper
place, and that it would be extending the liability of cities too
far to hold them liable for permitting-stepping stones on the
edge of sidewalks.

OCTOBER TERMI,

1904.

Opinion of the Court.

196 U. S.

Robert v Powell, 168 N. Y 411, was also an action for injuries
caused by a stepping-ttone. The court said. "There are some
objects which may be placed in or exist in a public street, such
as hydrants, hitching posts, telegraph poles, awning posts or
stepping-stones, such as the one described in this case, which
cannot be held to constitute a nuisance. They are in some
respects incidental to the proper use of the streets as to a
The stepping-stone in this case, located
highway
upon the sidewalk in front of a private house, was a reasonable
and necessary use of the street, not only for the convenience
of the owner of the house but for other persons who desired
to visit or enter the house for business or other lawful purposes."
It was further remarked. "The question involved in this
class of cases is, whether an object complained of is usual,
reasonable or necessary in the use of the street by the owner
of the premises, or any one else."
City of Cincinnativ Fleisher, Ad'mr., 63 Ohio St. 229, 234,
also passed upon a city's liability for the existence of a steppingstone upon a sidewalk. The court said. "It [the stone] was
within that portion of the street by the curb which, according
to common usage, is devoted to carriage blocks, lamps, hitch-

ing posts and shade trees, which pedestrians of ordinary care
observe and avoid." And Elster v Springfield was quoted, to
the effect that "the laying of sewers, like that of gas and water
pipes, beneath the soil, and the erection of lamps and hitching
posts, etc., upon the surface, is a street use, sanctioned as such
by their obvious purpose and long-continued usage."
It was held in Macomber v City of Taunton, 100 Massachusetts, 255, that a hitching post was not a defect in the highway
for which the city was liable for permitting it to remain.
Plaintiff in error cites.City of Scrantonv Callerson, 94 Pa. St.
202, and Dams v City of Austin, 22 Texas Civ App. 460.
In the first case, an iron water plug in the middle of a street
and projecting above its surface, was held to be a nuisance.
Obviously the case is not in point. The second case sustains

MOORE v. UNITED STATES.
196 U. S.

Syllabus.

the contention of plaintiff in error, but cannot be followed
against the authority and reasoning of the other cases.
2. The second contention of plaintiff in error is that it was
the duty of the District of Columbia to so light the street as
to show the presence of the stone thereon, the District having
full knowledge thereof. This duty is made to rest mainly
upon section 233 of the Revised Statutes of the District of
Columbia, which is as follows:
"The proper authorities are directed to increase, from time
to time as the public good may require, the number of street
lamps on any of the streets, lanes, alleys, public ways and
grounds in the city of Washington, and to do any and all
things pertaing to the well lighting of the city"
This, in one sense, is but another form of the first contention. The duty of a city to especially illuminate a place where
an object is, or to put a policeman on guard by it to warn
pedestrians, depends upon the object being an unlawful obstruction.
The plaintiff in error can claim nothing from the general
duty of the city under the statute to light the streets. The
exercise of such duty was necessarily a matter of judgment
and discretion, depending upon considerations which this record does not exhibit.
Judgment affirmed.

MOORE v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 71. Argued December 6,1904.-Decided January 3,1905.

Usage may be resorted to in order to make definite what is uncertain, clear
up what is doubtful, or annex incidents, but not to vary or contradict the
terms of a contract.
Under contracts between a San Francisco coal dealer and the United States
for the delivery of coal at Honolulu "at wharf" or "on wharf as custonmrary," the customs referred to held to be those of Honolulu and not of San

