OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

196 U. S.

m question does not contravene the due process clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United
States, the judgment of the Court of Appeals of Maryland is

Affirmed.

VANDERBILT v. EIDMAN.
CERTIFICATE

FROM THE UNITED

STATES

CIRCUIT COURT OF

APPEALS FOR THE SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 206. Argued October 13, 14, 1904.-Decided February 20,1905.
Where a legacy under the will of one dying m September, 1899, was to be
held m trust by the executors, the legatee only to receive the income
until he reached a specified age, which would be subsequent to 1902,
when he was to receive the principal, §§ 29 and 30 of the war revenue
act of June 13, 1898, 30 Stat. 464, did not authorize the assessment or
collection, prior to the time when, if ever, such rights or interests should
become absolutely vested in possession and enjoyment, of any tax with
respect to any of the rights or interests of the legatee with the exception
of is present right to receive the income until the age specified.
The amendatory act of March 2, 1901, 31 Stat. 946, as to the questions
involved in this suit regnacted §§ 29 and 30 of the act of 1898 and did
not enlarge them so as to embrace subjects of taxation not originally
included thereto, and did not justify the new construction thereafter
placed upon the act by the Government, that death duties should become
due within one year as to legacies and distributive shares not capable
of being immediately possessed and enjoyed and therefore not subject
to taxation under the original act. The refunding act of June 27, 1902,
32 Stat. 406, passed after §§ 29 and 30 of the act of 1898 had been repealed by the act of April 12, 1902, 32 Stat. 96, was in a sense declaratory
of the construction now given by this court to those sections of the act
of 1898 and was a legislative affirmance of such construction of the act
as it had been adopted by the Government prior to the amendatory act
of March 2, 1901, and a repudiation of the opposite construction adopted
thereafter.

CORNELIUS VANDERBILT died m the city of New York on
September 12, 1899, leaving a will, which was admitted to
probate, the seventeenth clause of which provides as follows:
"Seventeenth. All the rest, residue and remainder of all

VANDERBILT v. EIDMAN.
196 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

the property and estate, real, personal and mixed, of every
description, and wheresoever situated, of which I may die
seized or possessed, or to which I may be entitled at the time
of my decease, including all lapsed legacies and the principal
of any annuities which may terminate and any part of my
estate which may -not have been effectually devised or bequeathed or from any other source, I give, devise and bequeath
to my executors, hereinafter named, and the survivors and
survivor of them, IN TRUST, to hold said estate and invest and
reinvest the same and to collect the rents, issues, income and
profits therefrom for the use of my son Alfred G., and to apply
so much of said net income as may be in their judgment advisable, to his support, maintenance and education, and for
the care and maintenance of his property during his minority,
and to accumulate any surplus income, such accumulations
to be paid to him when he arrives at the age of twenty-one
years and thereafter to pay the net income of said estate to
him as received until he arrives at the age of thirty years,
when he shall be put in full possession of one-half the portion
of said estate to be set apart for that purpose by my executors
and survivors of them. And upon further trust thereafter
to pay to my said son, Alfred G. the income from the balance
remaining of said estate until he shall arrive at the age of
thirty-five years, when he shall be put m possession of the
balance of said trust estate, and the said trustees shall be discharged from any and all liability and responsibility in respect
thereof. If my son Alfred G. should die before attaining the
age of thirty-five years, leaving issue, such portion of the
estate as shall not then have come into his possession shall
be divided by my executors into as many equal shares as he
may leave children surviving, and one share shall be held by
my executors to the use of each such child or children until
he or she shall attain the age of twenty-one years, when it
shall be paid to such child, but if he shall die without child or
children, or if none of his children shall attain majority, then
it is my will that my son Reginald C. shiall in all respects, as to
voL. cxovi-31

OCTOBER TERMI, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

196 U. S.

said residuary estate stand m the place and stead of his brother
Alfred G., and that if Alfred G. shall die without issue before
he attains the age of thirty years, then Reginald C. shall receive the income from said estate until he attains the age of
thirty years, when he shall be put m possession of one-half of
the residuary estate, and thereafter Reginald 0. shall receive
the net income of the remaining one-half of my estate, and on
arriving at the age of thirty-five years he shall be put in
possession of the whole of said estate, and my said executors
shall hold said estate upon such trust, and I give and devise
the same accordingly If Alfred G. and Reginald C. shall
both die before being put into possession of said estate, and
without issue, I give whatever then remains of my residuary
estate to my daughters Gertrude and Gladys Moore, share and
share alike, and if either of my said daughters be then dead
leaving issue, her issue to take his or her mother's share, per
stirpes and not per capita; and in default of issue, the survivor
shall take the principal."
This clause contains the only provisions in the will relating
to or in any manner affecting the disposition of the residuary
estate of the testator, and determining the extent and character of the interests therein.
All of the children of Cornelius Vanderbilt, named in the
seventeenth clause of his will, were living at the time this suit
was brought. At the time of the death of Cornelius Vanderbilt his son, Alfred G. Vanderbilt, was between twenty-two
and twenty-three years of age, and his son, Reginald C. Vanderbilt, was between nineteen and twenty years of age, andboth were unmarried.
The appraised value of the residuary personal estate at the
time of the testator's death was $18,972,117.46.
The right of Alfred G. Vanderbilt to the beneficial enjoyment, as provided in the will, until he became thirty years of
age, was appraised at $5,119,612.43, and upon this sum the
executors paid a death duty under sections 29 and 30 of the
act of June 13, 1898 30 Stat. 448, 464, at the rate of two and

VANDERBILT v. EIDMAN.
196 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

one-fourth per cent, the tax amounting to $115,191.28. After
payment of this amount and subsequently to the passage on
March 2, 1901, 31 Stat. 938, of an amendment to the war
revenue act of 1898, the Commissioner of Internal Revenue,
considering that by that amendment Alfred G. Vanderbilt
had become minediately liable for a tax on his right to succeed to the whole residue if he lived to the ages of thirty and
thirty-five years respectively, assessed a death duty based
upon that hypothesis. In making this assessment as by the
mortality tables it was shown that Alfred G. Vanderbilt had
a life expectancy beyond the ages of thirty and thirty-five
years, the Commissioner assessed the interest -as a vested
estate equal m value to the sum of the entire residuary estate,
VIZ., $18,972,117.46. Upon this valuation a tax was levied
of two and one-fourth per cent, producing $426,872.64. On
this amount, however, credit was allowed for the sum of the
tax previously paid, leaving the balance due $311,681.36.
On September 3, 1901, this balance was paid by the executors
under protest, "and upon compulsion of the collector's threat
of distraint and sale." The executors thereupon made the
statutory application to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue
for the refunding of the amount, and it being refused, commenced m the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York this action to recover the
payment.
The facts, as above stated, were averred, and the right to
recover was based upon the ground that, as Alfred G. Vanderbilt only had the enjoyment presently of the revenues of
the residuary estate up to the period when he might attain
the age of thirty years, he was only liable to be assessed upon
that beneficial interest. For this reason it was charged that
the assessment made of the bequest to Alfred G. Vanderbilt
of the whole residuary estate, upon condition that he reached
the ages of thirty and thirty-five years respectively, was unwarranted.
The Circuit Court, on the ground that the complaint did not

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

196 U. S.

state a cause of action, sustained a demurrer to that effect
filed by the Government, and dismissed the action. 121 Fed.
Rep. 590. The Circuit Court of Appeals stated the facts as
above recited, and certified certain questions.
Mr Howard Taylor, with whom Mr Henry B Anderson
and Mr Chandler P Anderson were on the brief, for plaintiffs
m error"
Sections 29 and 30 of the act of June 13, 1898, imposed a
legacy tax as distinguished from a probate tax; that is, they
provided for the imposition of a tax upon the right to take a
beneficial interest in the property of a decedent, arising in the
manner prescribed in the act, which tax was directed to be
assessed at a certain rate per cent of the clear value of such
beneficial interest, the rate being primarily determined by the
relationship of the beneficiary to the testator. Where property is limited m trust they did not provide for the imposition
of a tax upon the passing to the trustees of the bare legal title
to the property regardless of the character of the beneficial
interest or interests therein.
See Knowlton v Moore, 178 U S. 41, as to the rights and
objects upon which death duties are imposed and the right of
Congress to levy such taxes, the form of the tax under this
particular act and its mode of assessment, and that the tax is
imposed not upon the whole bulk of the estate but with respect
to each separate legacy and is paid out of the legacy with
respect to which it is assessed. Fitzgerald v Rhode Island
Trust Co., 52 Atl. Rep. 814. Nor is the tax upon the property
passing but on the succession. United States v Perkins, 163
U S. 625, Magoun v Illinois Trust &c. Bank, 170 U S. 283,
Snyder v Bettrnan, 190 U S. 249.
It therefore appears that the tax imposed with respect to a
legacy under the act of 1898 is a tax upon the interest in
property to which a person succeeds upon another's death,
and that such interest must be a present beneficial interest of
a legatee and not merely a trustee's interest as custodian of

VANDERBILT r EIDAIAN.
196 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

the property, which is not a beneficial interest and has no clear
value upon which to compute the tax, and conversely it appears that the tax is not upon the property itself, nor upon
the mere passing of property, nor upon an interest in property
which ceased by reason of death. It is further evident that,
under this act a legacy tax has nothing to do with the bulk or
value of the estate of the testator, but only with the legatee's
interest in the particular legacy out of which the tax is payable,
and, although it is payable out of such legacy, it is not computed upon the value of the property passing under such
legacy, but only upon the clear value of the beneficial interest
in such legacy, and consequently, that unless and until such
interest has a clear value, no tax can be assessed.
The tax was intended to attach only to present interests
and the assessment and collection of taxes upon future rights
or interests which are contingent, or which if vested are subject to conditions subsequent which may prevent them ever
coming into possession, must be postponed until they become
absolutely vested.
Similar state statutes have been so construed. Matter of
Swift, 137 N. Y 77, 88, Matter of Dams, 149 N Y 539; Matter
of Curtis, 142 N. Y 219; Matter of Roosevelt, 143 N. Y 120;
Matter of Hoffman, 143 N. Y 327, Matter of Cager, 111 N. Y
342, Matter of Vanderbilt, 172 N. Y 69, 72, Matter of Brez,
172 N. Y 609; Billings v People, 189 Illinois, 472, People v
McCormick, 208 Illinois, 437
The subsequent acts of Congress relating to the war revenue
act show that it was intended to be construed and applied as
imposing a tax assessable only upon beneficial interests and
collectible only when such interests are actually perfected
either m possession or enjoyment.
By the seventeenth clause of the will Alfred G. Vanderbilt
has four separate and distinct interests in the residuary estate,
one of which, namely, his right to receive the income m the
entire residue until he becomes thirty years of age, is vested
and subject to taxation, and three of which, namely, his right

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

196 U. S.

to receive one-half of the principal of the residue upon becoming thirty years of age, his right to receive the income in the
other half of the residue until he shall become thirty-five years
of age, and his right to receive the principal of the other half
of the residue upon reaching that age, are all future interests
and not presently taxable.
As to whether a gift is future or contingent or there is an
immediate vested interest, see Leake v Edwards, 2 Mer. 363,
Warner v Durant, 76 N. Y 133, 136, Smith v Edwards, 88
N. Y 92, 103, Goebel v Wolf, 113 N. Y 405, 412; Zartman v
Ditmars, 37 App. Div N. Y 173, Vawdry v Geddes, 1 Russ.
& M. 203, Greenland v Waddell, 116 N. Y 234, Schlereth v
Schlereth, 173 N. Y 453, Matter of Seaman, 147 N. Y 69;
Campbell v Stokes, 142 N. Y 23, Stevenson v Lesley, 70 N. Y.
512, Rudd v Cornell, 171 N. Y 114, Matter of Vanderbilt, 172
N. Y 69; Matter of Tracy, 179 N. Y 519, and cases cited.
These interests, being future and conditional, and likely to
be defeated before they can vest in possession or enjoyment,
no tax can be assessed or collected with respect to them under
the war revenue law until they vest absolutely Whether
they are called contingent or vested, or by whatever name
they are designated, the fact is that they are not rights of
actual ownership and they have no clear value upon which a
tax can be computed. They should therefore be treated in the
same way that the remainder interests were treated in the case
of Knowlton v Moore, supra, where no tax was assessed with
respect to such interests in the residue, pending the termination of the intervening interests therein.
The present "clear value" of all the beneficiary's interests
in the residue, the enjoyment of two of which are conditional
upon his reaching the age of thirty years, and the enjoyment
of one of which is conditional upon his reaching the age of
thirty-five years, cannot now accurately be determined but
obviously is not equal to the full cash value of the property
comprising the entire residue.
The war revenue law does not require the collection of a

VANDERBILT v. EIDMAN.
196 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

tax imposed thereunder until the beneficiary becomes entitled
to the actual possession or enjoyment of the legacy
Mr Assutant Attorney General Robb for defendant m errorVested remainders are taxed by the war revenue law, Knowlton v Moore, 178 U S. 41, 71. The history of the legacy tax
legislation and analysis of this statute show this. See construction of act of 1866 in Mason v Sargent, 104 U S. 689;
Pennsylvansa Company v McClarn, 105 Fed. Rep. 367, S. C.,
108 Fed. Rep. 618. Vested remainders are taxed upon vesting.
Land Title Co. v McCoach, 127 Fed. Rep. 381, 386, Brown v
Kinney, 128 Fed. Rep. 310; Peck v Kinney, 128 Fed. Rep. 313.
Such a tax results in no injustice. United States v Perkzns,
163 U S. 625, Plummer v Coler, 178 U S. 115, United States
v Fox, 94 U S. 315, Snyder v Bettman, 190 U S. 249. The
uniformity clause of the Constitution is not violated. Knowlton v Moore, 178 U S. 41, Incense Tax Case, 5 Wall. 472,
United State v Singer, 15 Wall. 111, Head Money Cases, 112;
U S. 580. Subsequent legislation of Congress shows this was
the intent. See also the New York cases cited on brief of
plaintiff m error construing New York statute and Matter of
Stewart, 131 N. Y 274, Matter of Dams, 149 N. Y 139. The
tax is collectible when the remamder-vests. The interests of
the beneficiary are vested remainders. See in Federal courts
Prce v Watktns, 1 Dallas, 8, Carver v Astor, 4 Pet. 1, Crane
v Morms, 6 Pet. 598, Coxall v Shererd, 5 Wall. 268, Doe v
Constdine, 6 Wall. 458, Cropley v Cooper, 19 Wall. 167,
Daniel v Whartenby, 17 Wall. 639; Clapp v Mason, 94 U S.
589; McArthur v Scott, 113 U S. 340; Thaw v Ritchwe, 136
U. S. 519, Williams v Hedrck, 96 Fed. Rep. 657, Tirrell v
Bacon, 3 Fed. Rep. 62, In re Wood, 98 Fed. Rep. 972, In re
.Haslett, 116 Fed. Rep. 680; In re McHarry, 11 Fed. Rep. 498,
and New York cases, Doe v Provoost, 4 Johns. 61, Hone's
Executors v Van Schawk, 20 Wend. 564, Moore v Lyons, 25
Wend. 119; Everitt v Everitt, 29 N. Y 39; Moore v Little, 41
N. Y 66, Manwe v Manwe, 43 N. Y 303, Ivington v Greene,

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinon of the Court.

196 U. S.

52 N. Y 118, Warner v Durant, 76 N. Y 133, Monargue v
Monargue, 80 N. Y 320; Radley v Kuhn, 97 N. Y 26, Van
Brunt v Van Brunt, 111 N. Y 178, Goebel v Wolf, 113 N. Y
405, Campbell v Stokes, 142 N. Y 23. The cases cited by
plaintiff in error can be distinguished. The interests were
taxed according to their clear value.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.
The four questions certified are as follows:
"I. Is the tax imposed by -sections 29 and 30 of the act of
Congress of June 13, 1898, entitled 'An act to provide ways
and means to meet war expenditures, and for other purposes,'
with respect to Alfred G. Vanderbilt's interest under the
seventeenth clause of the will of Cornelius Vanderbilt, a tax
upon the transmission to and receipt by the trustees of the
property passing to them as trustees under the legacy out of
which such interest arises?
"II. If the preceding question is answered in the negative,
is the -tax imposed under said act with respect to Alfred G.
Vanderbilt's interest under said seventeenth clause a tax upon
the transmission to and receipt by said Alfred G. Vanderbilt
of his beneficial interest in the property passing under such
legacy?
"III. Did sections 29 and 30 of said act authorize the assessment and collection of a tax with respect to any of the rights
or interests of Alfred G. Vanderbilt as a residuary legatee of
the personal estate of Cornelius Vanderbilt under the seventeenth clause of the will, with the exception of his present
right to receive the income of such estate until he attains the
age of thirty years, prior to the time when, if ever, such rights
or interests shall become absolutely vested in possession or
enjoyment?
"IV If the tax under sections 29 and 30 of said act was
presently assessable and collectible upon all the interests of

VANDERBILT v. EIDMAN.
196 U. S.

Opimon of the Court.

Alfred G. Vanderbilt in said legacy, was the clear value of all
such interests, for the purposes of computing the tax, equal
to the full value of the property comprised in the legacy out
of which such interests arose?"
Whilst the questions, apparently, present distinct matters,
yet underlying and involved in them all is the fundamental
consideration whether the burden imposed by the war revenue
act was confined to the interest of which Alfred G. Vanderbilt
had the beneficial right of immediate enjoyment, or whether
that burden also bore upon the right to the residue which
Alfred G. Vanderbilt might possess or enjoy in the future, if
he lived to the ages specified in the will, upon the theory that
the right so to possess or enjoy in the future was technically
vested. To avoid repetition we therefore come at once to
the consideration of this subject in order that when we have
disposed of it we may be able, in the light of the correct
construction of the statute, to respond to the questions propounded, in so far as it may be found necessary to do so.
Before coming to the statute we put aside as not directly
decisive of the question here presented a case referred to by
both parties, that is, Knowlton v Moore, 178 U S. 41. Whilst
that case involved the constitutionality of the act of Congress,
with whose meaning we are here concerned, it required a construction of that act only to the extent necessary to enable it
to be decided what was the subject upon which the law levied
the tax, and whether the statute required the tax levied to
be progressively increased by reference to the whole amount
of the estate of the decedent, or alone by reference to the
particular legacy or distributive share upon the right to succeed to which the tax bore. The case did not, therefore, pass
on the controversies here arising.
To state briefly the conflicting contentions of the parties
as to the meaning of the statute may serve to accentuate and
narrow the question for decision. The proposition of the Government is thus stated in the argument:

"First, vested remainders are taxed by the law of June 13,

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

196 U. S.

1898, the tax attaching at the time of vesting; second, the
tax is to be assessed and collected at the time of vesting;
third, the interest of Alfred G. Vanderbilt m the principal of
the residue, which the will provides he shall be put in full
possession of, one-half at the age of 30, and the other half at
the age of 35, is a vested remainder."
The contrary contentions are as follows: First. That Congress in the act in question did not concern itself with the
mere technical vesting of the title to possibly possess or enjoy
m the future personal property; but, on the contrary, the act
subjected to the death duties which it imposed only real and
beneficial interests. In other words, the proposition is that
the act did not make subject to taxation a gift, which, even if
technically vested m title, was yet subject to be defeated in
possession or enjoyment by the happening of a contingency
stated in the will. The argument, therefore, is that where
such a gift was made by will, no tax could be imposed until
the time when, by the happening of the contingency stated,
the right to possess or enjoy had accrued. Second. That even
if the statute imposed a tax upon vested remainders the in.terest in question was a contingent and not a vested remainder.
The provisions of the act of 1898, which require elucidation
for the purpose of disposing of these contentions, are contamed in sections 29 and 30. They are reproduced m the
margin.'
iAct of June 13, 1898, c. 448.
SEc. 29. That any person or persons having in charge or trust, as administrators, executors, or trustees, any legacies or distributive shares
arising from personal property, where the whole amount of such personal
property as aforesaid shall exceed the sum of ten thousand dollars in actual
value, passing, after the passage of this act, from any person possessed of
such property, either by will or by the intestate laws of any State or Terntory, or. any personal property or interest therein, transferred by deed,
grant, bargain, sale, or gift, made or intended to take effect in possession or
enjoyment after the death of the grantor or bargainor, to any person or
persons, or to any body or bodies, politic or corporate, in trust or otherwise,
shall be, and hereby are, made subject to a duty or tax, to be paid to the

VANDERBILT v. EIDMAN.
196 U. S.

Opimon of the Court.

It will be observed that the duties imposed m section 29
have relation to two classes, first, legacies or distributive
shares passing by death and arising from personal property;
and, second any personal property or interest therein transUnited States, as follows-that is to say- Where the whole amount of said
personal property shall exceed m value ten thousand dollars and shall not
exceed m value the sum of twenty-five thousand dollars, the tax shall be:
First. Where the person or persons entitled to any beneficial interest in
such property shall be the lineal issue or lineal ancestor, brother, or sister
to the person who died possessed of such property, as aforesaid, at the rate
of seventy-five cents for each and every hundred dollars of the clear value
of such interest m such property.
Second. Where the person or persons entitled to any beneficial interest
in such property shall be the descendent of a brother or sister of the person
who died possessed, as aforesaid, at the rate of one dollar and fifty cents
for each and every hundred dollars of the clear value of such interest.
Third. Where the person or persons entitled to any beneficial interest in
such property shall be the brother or sister of the father.or mother, or a
descendent of a brother or sister of the father or mother, of the person who
died possessed as aforesaid, at the rate of three dollars for each and every
hundred dollars of the clear value of such interest.
Fourth. Where the person or persons entitled to any beneficial interest
in such property shall be the brother or sister of the grandfather or grandmother, or a descendant of the brother or sister of the grandfather or grandmother, of the person who died possessed as aforesaid, at the rate of four
dollars for each and every hundred dollars of the clear value of such interest.
Fifth. Where the person or persons entitled to any beneficial interest in
such property shall be in any other degree of collateral consanguinity than
as hereinbefore stated, or shall be a stranger in blood to the.person who died
possessed, as aforesaid, or shall be a body politic or corporate, at the rate
of five dollars for each and every hundred dollars of the clear value of such
interest: Provided, That all legacies or property passing by will, or by the
laws of any State or Territory, to husband or wife of the person died possessed, as aforesaid, shall be exempt from tax or duty.
Where the amount or value of said property shall exceed the sum of
twenty-five thousand dollars, but shall not exceed thb sum or value of
one hundred thousand dollars, the rates of duty or tax above set forth shall
be multiplied by one and one-half; and where the amount or value of said
property shall exceed the sum of one hundred thousand dollars, but shall
not exceed the sum of five hundred thousand dollars, such rates of duty
shall be multiplied by two; and -where the amount or value of said property
shall exceed the sum of five hundred thousand dollars, but shall not exceed
the sum of one million dollars, such rates of duty shall be multiplied by two
and one-half; and where the amount or value of said property shall exceed

OCTOBER TERAI, 1904
Opinion of the Court.

196 U. S.

ferred by deed, grant, bargain, sale or gift, to take effect in
possession or enjoyment after the death of the grantor or
bargamor, in favor of any person or persons, or to any body or
bodies, politic or corporate, in trust or otherwise. As to this
the sum of one million dollars, such rates of duty shall be multiplied by
three.
SEc. 30. That the tax or duty aforesaid shall be a lien and charge upon
the property of every person who may die as aforesaid for twenty years,
or until the same shall, within that period, be fully paid to and discharged
by the United States; and every executor, administrator, or trustee, before
payment and distribution to the legatees, or any parties entitled to beneficial interest therein, shall pay to the collector or deputy collector of the
district of which the deceased person was a resident the amount of the duty
or tax assessed upon such legacy or distributive share, and shall also make
and render to the said collector or deputy collector a schedule, list, or statement, m duplicate, of the amount of such legacy or distributive share,
together with the amount of duty which has accrued, or shall accrue,
thereon, verified by his oath or affirmation, to be administered and certified
thereon by some magistrate or officer having lawful power to administer
such oaths, in such form and manner as may be prescribed by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, which schedule, list, or statement shall contain
the names of each and every person entitled to any beneficial interest
therein, together with the clear value of such interest, the duplicate of
which schedule, list, or statement shall be by hun immediately delivered,
and the tax thereon paid to such collector; and upon such payment and
delivery of such schedule, list, or statement said collector or deputy collector
shall grant to such person paying such duty or tax a receipt or receipts for
the same in duplicate, which shall be prepared as hereinafter provided.
Such receipt or receipts, duly signed and delivered by such collector or
deputy collector, shall be sufficient evidence to entitle such executor, administrator, or trustee to be credited and allowed such payment by every
tribunal which, by the laws of any State or Territory, is, or may be, empowered to decide upon and settle the accounts of executors and admimstrators. And in case such executor, administrator, or trustee shall refuse
or neglect to pay the aforesaid duty or tax to the collector or deputy collector, as aforesaid, within the time herembefore provided, or shall neglect
or refuse to deliver to said collector or deputy collector the duplicate of the
schedule, list, or statement of such legacies, property, or personal estate,
under oath, as aforesaid, or shall neglect or refuse to deliver the schedule,
list, or statement of such legacies, property, or personal estate, under oath,
as aforesaid, or shall deliver to said collector or deputy collector a false
schedule or statement of such legacies, property, or personal estate, or give
the names and relationship of the persons entitled to beneficial interest
therein untruly, or shall not truly and correctly set forth and state therein

VANDERBILT v. EIIDMAN.
196 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

second class, the statute specifically makes the liability for
taxation depend, not upon the mere vesting m a technical
sense of title to the gift, but upon the actual possession or
enjoyment thereof. By any fair construction the limitation
as to possession or enjoyment expressed as to one class must
be applied to the other, unless it be found that the statute,
whilst treating the two as one and the same for the purpose
of the imposition of the death duty, has yet subjected them
the clear value of such beneficial interest, or where no administration upon
such property or personal estate shall have been granted or allowed under
existing laws, the collector or deputy collector shall make out such lists
and valuation as m other cases of neglect or refusal, and shall assess the
duty thereon; and the collector shall commence appropriate proceedings
before any court of the United States, in the name of the United States,
against such person or persons as may have the actual or constructive
custody or possession of such property or personal estate, or any part
thereof, and shall subject such property or personal estate, or any portion
of the same, to be sold upon the judgment or decree of such court, and from
the proceeds of such sale the amount of such tax or duty, together with all
costs and expenses of every description to be allowed by such court, shall
be first paid, and the balance, if any, deposited according to the order of
such court, to be paid under its direction to such person or persons as shall
establish title to the same. The deed or deeds, or any proper conveyance
of such property or personal estate, or any portion thereof, so sold under
such judgment or decree, executed by the officer lawfully charged with
carrying the same into effect, shall vest in the purchaser thereof all the title
of the delinquent to the property or personal estate sold under and by.
virtue of such judgment or decree, and shall release every other portion of
such property or personal estate from the lien or charge thereon created
by this act. And every person or persons who shall have m his possession,
charge, or custody any record, file, or paper containing, or supposed to contain, any information concerning such property or personal estate, as
aforesaid, passing from any person who may die, as aforesaid, shall exhibit
the same at the request of the collector or deputy collector of the district,
and to any law officer of the United States, in the performance of"his duty
under this act, his deputy or agent, who may desire to examine the same.
And if any such person, having in his possession, charge, or custody any
such records, files, or papers, shall refuse or neglect to exhibit the same on
request, as aforesaid, he shall forfeit and pay the sum of five hundred dollars: Provided, That in all legal controversies where such deed or title shall
be the subject of judicial investigation, the recital in said deed shall be
prima facie evidence of its truth, and that the requirements of the laws had
been complied with by the officers of the Government.

OCTOBER TERI, 1904.
Opinon of the Court.

196 U. S.

to different rules. A consideration of the subsequent provisions of the section leaves no room for such a contention,
since immediately following the designation of the two classes
there are five distinct paragraphs, subjecting the passing of
the property taxed in both classes to a different rate of tax,
dependent upon the degree of relationship of the beneficiary
to the decedent, and in each it is specifically provided that a
tax is to be levied in respect cnly of a beneficial interest having
a clear value. Moreover, the meaning of the statute, fairly
to be deduced from the reiteration in each of the five paragraphs of the beneficial interest and clear value as the subject of the tax, is greatly strengthened by the inference to be
drawn from the fact that nowhere in the section is there contamed language referring to technical estates in personalty
or treating them as subject of taxation, despite the absence
of the right to immediate possession or enjoyment. And
coming to consider section 30, relating to the collection of the
duty or tax imposed by section 29, the meaning of section 29,
as just indicated, is made clearer. Thus by section 30 it is
provided that "every executor, administrator or trustee, before payment and distribution [of a legacy or distributive
share] to the legatees, or any parties entitled to beneficial
interest therein, shall pay to the collector of the district of
which the deceased person was a resident the amount of the
duty or tax assessed upon such legacy or distributive share."
It also requires that the schedule, etc., to be furnished by an
executor, administrator or trustee to a collector or deputy
collector shall contain the name of each person having a
beneficial interest in the property in the charge or custody
of the executor, etc., with a statement "of the clear value of
such interest."
These provisions harmonize with the meaning which we
have ascribed to section 29, since they clearly import that
the tax is to be deducted from a beneficial interest which the
beneficiary was entitled to enjoy, and from which, before payment or distribution, a deduction of the duty was to be made.

VANDERBILT v. EIDAAN.
196 U. S.

Opmion of the Court.

In view of the express provisions of the statute as to possession or enjoyment and beneficial interest and clear value,
and of the absence of any express language exhibiting an intention to tax a mere technically vested interest in a case
where the right to possession or enjoyment was subordinated
to an uncertain contingency, it would, we think, Ue doing
violence to the statute to construe it as taxing such an interest before the period when possession or enjoyment had
attached. And such is the construction which has been
affixed to some state statutes, the text of which lent themselves more strongly to the construction that it was the intention to subject to immediate taxation merely technical
interests, without regard to a present right to possess or enjoy
Matter of Curtis, 142 N. Y 219, 222; Matter of Roosevelt, 143
N.Y 120.
In the Matter of Hoffman, 143 N. Y 327, the court was
called upon to construe the meaning of a statute, enacted in
1892, providing that "all taxes imposed by this act shall be
due and payable at the time of the transfer, provided, however, that taxes upon the transfer of any estate, property or
interest therein limited, conditioned, dependent or determiable upon the happening of any contingency or future
event, by reason of which the fair market value thereof cannot be ascertained at the time of the transfer as herein provided shall accrue and become due and payable when the
persons or corporations beneficially entitled thereto shall come
into actual possession or enjoyment thereof." Laws 1892,
chap. 399, sec. 3. The court said.
"We are obliged to follow one of two lines of construction.
We must open all the nice and difficult questions which arise
under a will as to the vesting of technical legal estates, although future and contingent, and assess the tax upon what
are in reality only possibilities and chances, and so complicate
the statute with the endless brood of difficult questions which
gather about the construction of wills; or we must construe it
m view of its aim and purpose and the object it seeks to ac-

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinon of the Court.

196 U. S.

complish, and so subordinate technical phrases to the facts
of actual and practical ownership. For taxation is a hard
fact, and should attach only to such ownership, and may
properly be compelled to wait until chances and possibilities
develop into the truth of an actual estate possessed, or to
which there exists an absolute right of future possession. I
am not shutting my eyes to the statutory language, which is
quite broad. The property taxed may be an estate 'for a
term of years or for life or determinable upon any future or
contingent estate,' or 'a remainder, reversion or other expectancy,' and the tables of mortality may be resorted to for the
ascertainment of values. And yet, it is the 'fair market
value,' the 'fair and clear market value,' which is to be assessed, and with the proviso that if that value cannot be at
once ascertained, the appraisal is to be adjourned. I can
scarcely imagine a contingency depending upon lives which
mathematics could not solve by the doctrine of chances and
the averages of mortality, and there could hardly be an adjournment unless upon some rare contingency having no
averages, and the results in cases dependent upon lives might
still leave the 'fair and clear market value' in doubt and yield
sums which no sale in the market would produce."
So, also, the Supreme Court of Illinois, in construing an
inheritance tax law of that State, containing language identical
in some respects with that found in the act of Congress, observed in Billings v The People, 189 Illinois, 472, 487
"The tax imposed by section 1 of our statute is fixed upon
the 'clear market value of the property received by each person' at the prescribed rate,-that is, as shown by the context,
the clear market value of the beneficial interest so received.
Surely, by such language it was not intended by the legislature
that the courts should undertake to ascertain the clear market
value of a mere possible interest which, from its very nature,
could not have any market value, and which, for all practical
purposes, such as taxation, is incapable of valuation. The
courts, in order to enforce the immediate collection of such

VANDERBILT -v. EIDMEAN.

497

I

198 U. S.

Opimon of the Court.

taxes, as the statute seems to contemplate shall be done, cannot change the tax from one on succession to one on property;
nor can they classify such remote and contingent interests,.
and fix the tax or rate of tax upon the whole class, as possibly
the law-making power might do or provide for. No other
course is left open in the practical administration of the
statute than to postpone, as was done m this case, the assessmg and collecting of the tax upon such remote and contingent
interests as are incapable of valuation and as to which the rate
and the exemptions cannot be determined."
And see also Howe v Howe, 179 Massachusetts, 546, 550.
Indeed, m accord with its text and m harmony with the
principles of construction expounded m the cases just cited,
the act of 1898 was primarily construed by the officers charged
with its administration as taxing only beneficial interests
where the right to possess or enjoy-had accrued. The rulings
of the Internal Revenue Department to this effect were without deviation for several years.
The practice followed in carrying out the statute was illustrated by the assessment which was made in the case considered in Knowlton v Moore, 178 U S. 41, as exhibited m the
schedule on page 44 of the report of that case. It was also by
this construction that the tax m this case was originally
assessed only upon the beneficial interest which was being
enjoyed by Alfred G. Vanderbilt.
The change of construction was made because the administrative officers deemed it was required by the amendment of March 2, 1901, to the act of 1898. 31 Stat. 946.
This is shown by a ruling made by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue on October 17, 1901, m which it was said
(Treasury Decisions, Internal Revenue, vol. 4, p. 209)
"This office formerly held that the tax on reversionary
interests was payable when the beneficiaries entered into the
possession and enjoyment of their legacies.
"The amendment to section 30 of the war-revenue law,
approved March 2. 1901, which went into effect July 1, 1901,
VOL. cxovW-32

OCTOBER TERMI, 1904.
Opmion of the Court.

196 U. S.

necessitated a change in this ruling, and on July 20, 1901,
this office ruled that reversionary interests which are vested
are taxable on their present worth."
The case therefore reduces itself to this: Did the amendatory
act of 1901 enlarge the act of 1898 so as to cause that act to
embrace subjects of taxation which were not included prior
to the amendment? The amendatory act, so far as necessary
to be considered for the purposes of this question, renacted
sections 29 and 30 of the original act. The amendments which
the administrative officers decided made subject to taxation
vested interests where the right of immediate possession or
enjoyment had not accrued, and which had been treated as
not taxable prior to the amendment were that the tax or duty
should be due and payable in one year after the death of the
person from whom the estate had passed, and that the executor, administrator or trustee should make return of the estate
in his control within thirty days after taking charge thereof.
Giving to these provisions their natural import, they imply
only that a uniform period was fixed within which the obligation should arise of paying the tax authorized to be levied
by the original act, that is, the obligation of paying the duty
on each beneficial interest which in effect had vested in possession or enjoyment. The amendments, therefore, did not, in
our opinion, justify the construction that Congress intended
by adopting them to cause death duties to become due within
one year as to legacies and distributive shares which were not
capable of being immediately possessed or enjoyed, and were
therefore not subject to taxation under the original act. This
conclusion irresistibly follows when it is observed that no word
is found in the amendatory act importing an intention to
change the administrative construction which had theretofore
prevailed from the beginning. On the contrary, the amendatory act reiterated without alteration the provisions found in
the original act as to possession or enjoyment and beneficial
interest and clear value. Indeed the amendatory act contained new provisions not expressly found in the original act,

VANDERBILT v. EIDMAN.
196 U. S.

Opimon of the Court.

supporting and adding cogency to the prior administrative
construction, such as the proviso at the close of section 30,
as follows:
"Any tax paid under the provisions of sections twenty-nine
and thirty shall be deducted from the particular legacy or
distributive share on account of which the sum is charged;"
a provision plainly importing a practically contemporaneous
right to receive the legacy or distributive share, and one which
would be impracticable of execution if the tax was to be assessed and collected before the beneficiary and the rate of tax
could certainly be ascertained.
Further elucidation as to the meaning of the amendatory
act of 1901 is unnecessary in view of the subsequent legislation
of Congress. By the act of April 12, 1902, 32 Stat. 96, section 29 of the act of 1898, as amended on March 2, 1901, was
repealed to take effect on July 1, 1902. The repealing act,
however, saved "All taxes or duties imposed by section 29
of the act of June 13, 1898, and the amendments thereof,
prior to the taking effect of this act." On June 27, 1902, 32
Stat. 406, an act was adopted, the third section of which
reads as follows:
"SEc. 3. That in all cases where an executor, administrator,
or trustee,, shall have paid, or shall hereafter pay, any tax upon
any legacy or distributive share of personal property under
the provisions of the act approved June thirteenth, eighteen
hundred and ninety-eight, entitled 'An act to provide ways
and means to meet war expenditures, and for other purposes,'
and amendments thereof, the Secretary of the Treasury be,
and he is hereby, authorized and directed to refund, out of any
money in the Treasury, not otherwise appropriated, upon
proper application being made to the Commissioner of Internal
Revenue, under such rules and regulations as may be prescribed, so much of said tax as may have been collected on
contingent beneficial interests which shall not have become
vested prior to July first, nineteen hundred and two. And
no tax shall hereafter be assessed or imposed under said act,

OCTOBER TERMI, 1904.
Opmion of the Court.

196'U. S.

approved June thirteenth, eighteen hundred and ninety-eight,
upon or in respect of any contingent beneficial interest which
shall not become absolutely vested in possession or enjoyment
prior to said July first, nineteen hundred and two."
In view of the provision for refunding we see no escape
from the conclusion that this statute was in a sense declaratory
of what we hold was the true construction of the act of 1898,
and which, as we have seen, had prevailed prior to the amendment of March 2, 1901, and which was only departed from by
the administrative officer under a misconception of the import
of that amendatory act. There is no suggestion that any
prior practice prevailed in the enforcement of the act of 1898,
calling for the enacting of the refunding clause, except the
mistaken construction placed on the amendatory act of 1901.
The act of 1902 was, therefore, a legislative affirmance of the
construction given to the act of 1898, prior to the amendment
of 1901. It follows that the act of 1902 was, moreover, a
legislative repudiation of the construction of the act of 1898,
now insisted on by the Government. It is, we think, incontrovertible that the taxes which the third section of the act of
1902 directs to be refunded and those which it forbids the
collection of in the future are one and the same in their nature.
Any other view would destroy the unity of the section and
cause its provisions to produce inexplicable conflict. From
this it results that the taxes which are directed in the first
sentence to be refunded, because they had been wrongfully
collected on contingent beneficial interests which had not
become vested prior to July 1, 1902, were taxes levied on such
beneficial interests as had not become vested sn possesswn or
enjoyment prior to the date named, within the intendment of
the subsequent sentence. In other words, the statute provided for the refunding of taxes collected under the circumstances stated and at the same time forbade like collections
in the future.
In view of the text of the act of 1898 and the other considerations to which we have referred, we have not deemed it

VANDERBILT v. EIDMAN.
196 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

necessary to advert to a contention made by the Government
in argument, that the true meaning of the act of 1898 is shown
by the administrative construction placed upon the act of
July 1, 1862, levying legacy taxes, 12 Stat. 432, 485, of which
in effect the act of 1898 was a reproduction. It is undoubtedly
true that both under the act of 1862 and the act of June 30,.
1864, 13 Stat. 223, 285, there was an administrative construction by which vested interests, although unaccompanied with
the right of immediate possession or enjoyment, were treated
as at once taxable. Without entering into details on the subject, we content ourselves with saying that it is also true that
the correctness of that construction was in effect repudiated
by legislative action (act of July 13, 1866, 14 Stat. 98, 140),
and was, moreover, in substance, treated as unsound by the
reasoning of the opinion in Clapp v Mason, 94 U S. 589.
Thus, by legislative action and judicial interpretation, it
came to pass that the acts of 1862 and 1864 signified exactly
what we now construe the act of 1898 to mean. It was doubtless this concordance of legislative action and judicial interpretation concerning the earlier acts which caused the administrative department of the Government, when the act of
1898 was adopted, to interpret that act, not as the acts of
1862 and 1864 had been originally erroneously interpreted in
administration, but in accord with the subsequent legislative
and judicial construction which had been placed upon the
language of those acts, and which language in effect was
repeated in the act of 1898.
Concluding, as we do, that there was no authority under
the act of 1898 for taxing the interest of Alfred G. Vanderbilt,
given him by the residuary clause of the will, conditioned on
his attaining the ages of thirty and thirty-five years, respectively, it is unnecessary to determine whether such interest was technically a vested remainder, as claimed by
counsel for the Government. In passing, however, we remark
that m a case recently decided by the Court of Appeals of
New York, Matter of Tracy, 179 N. Y 501, it was declared

OCU£OBER TERM, 1904.
196 U. S.

Syllabus.

that such interest was a contingent and not. a vested remainder.
Coming to apply the construction which we have given the
statute to the solution of the questions propounded by the
Court of Appeals, it follows that the first, second and fourth
questions are unnecessary to be answered, and the third question should be answered in the negative.
And it w so ordered.

WESTERN TIE AND TIMBER COMPANY v. BROWN.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 232. Argued January 5,1905.-Decided February 20,1905.
The bankrupt was largely indebted to a corporation whose laborers purchased supplies from hun; periodically he rendered the corporation a
statement of amounts due from its laborers which it deducted from their
wages and remitted to hun in a lump sum. Prior to, and within four
months of, the filing of the petition, the corporation several times deducted from its pay-roll, amounts aggregating over $2,000, so due by its
laborers but did not pay them over, and on filing it claim it embodied
as an integral part thereof the amounts so deducted and retained as a
proper credit or offset. The Circuit Court of Appeals found that the
corporation retained the amounts with the knowledge of the bankrupt's
insolvency and with the intention to secure a preference to that extent
thereby, but that the bankrupt had no such intention, and ordered that
the entire claim be expunged unless the corporation paid the amount so
retained to the trustee. On appeal objections were taken to the jursdiction of this court. Held: that
As the claun to set-off is controlled by and is necessarily based on the
provisions of § 68 of the Bankrupt Act and its construction is necessarily involved, and the question is one which might have been taken to
this court on appeal or writ of error from the highest court of a State, this
court has jurisdiction of the appeal.
Under the facts as found below the deductions from pay-roll did not give
rise to a voidable preference nor was the corporation entitled to credit
them as a set-off as they were not mutual debts and credits within the
set-off clause of the bankrupt act, but were collections made independ-

