SWIIvr ANI) COMPANY .r UNI'FEI) ,TAI'ES.

375

Syllabus.

196 U. S.

of Appeals, 172 N. Y 176. But the court will not discharge
a defendant arrested under the governor's warrant where
there is merely contradictory evidence on the subject of
presence in or absence from the State, as habeas corpus is not
the proper proceeding to try the question of alibi, or any
question as to the guilt or innocence of the accused. As a
prima facze case existed for the retirn of the plaintiff in error,
and she refused to give any evidence upon the return of the
writ which she had herself sued out, other than the papers
before the governor, no case was made out for her discharge,
and the judgment of the Supreme Court of New Hampshire
refusing to grant it must, therefore, be
Affirmed.

SWIFT AND COMPANY v UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COUIRT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN

DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 103. Argued January 6, 7, 1905.-Decided January 30, 1905.

A combination of a dominant proportion of the dealers in fresh meat throughout the United States, not to bid against, or only in conjunction with,
each other in order to regulate prices in and induce shipments to the
live stock markets in other States, to restrict shipments, establish uniform
rules of credit, make uniform and improper rules of cartage, and to get
less than lawful rates from railroads to the exclusion of competitors with
intent to monopolize commerce among the States, is an illegal combination within the meaning and prohibition of the act of July 2, 1890, 26
Stat. 209, and can be restrained and enjoined in an action by the United
States.
It does not matter that a combination of this naturi embraces restraint
and monopoly of trade within a single State if it also embraces and is directed against commerce among the States. Moreover the effect of such
a combination upon interstate commerce is direct and not accidental,
secondary or remote as in United States v. E. C. Knight Co., 156 U. S. 1.
Even if the separate elements of such a scheme are lawful, when thy"
are bound together by a common intent as parts of an unlawful scheme to
monopolize interstate commerce the plan may make the parts unla-wful.
When cattle are sent for sale from a place in one State, with the expectation

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Appellants.

196 U. S.

they will end their transit, after purchase, in another State, and when in erfect they do so, with only the interruption necessary to find a purchaser
at the stock yards, and when this is a constantly recurring course, it constitutes interstate commerce and the purchase of the cattle is an incident
of such commerce.
A bill in equity, and the demurrer thereto, are neither of them to be rad
and construed strictly as an indictment but are to be taken to nican
what they fairly convey to a dispassionate reader by a fairly exact use
of English speech.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr John S. Miller, with whom Mr MerrittStarr was on the
brief, for appellants:
The charges in each of the paragraphs or counts of the bill
or petition of alleged violations of the Sherman Act are, respectively, mere statements of legal conclusions. Each is bad
on demurrer for that reason.
These charges would be bad on that ground, even in an
indictment under this act. In re Greene, 52 Fed. Rep. 104,
United States v Cruikshank, 92 U S. 542, 563, United States v
Simmons, 96 U S. 360; United States v Carll, 105 U S. 611,
United States v Britton, 107 U S. 655, Hazard v Griswold, 21
Fed. Rep. 178. And a fortiori are they bad in a bill or petition
in equity, which is required to state the facts essential to the
cause of action. Lawson v Hewell, 118 California, 613, Wrkght
v Dame, 22 Pick. 59, Ambler v Choteau, 107 U S. 586, Van
Weel v Winston, 115 U S. 228, 237, 1 Foster Fed. Prac. §67
The facts alleged are looked at and not adjectives or adverbs
or epithets. Magmac v Thompson, 2 Wall. Jr. 209; Price v
Coleman, 21 Fed. Rep. 357, Van Weel v Winston, and Ambler
v Choteau, supra.
The importance of applying this rule with strictness here is
more marked because answer by the defendants under oath is
called for. This point is properly raised by demurrer. 1
Daniel Ch. Pr. 372. It was so raised in Van Weel v Winston.
supra.
The decree complained of, which is merely one of injunction,
is erroneous on like grounds of indefiniteness. Laurie v.

SWIFT ANI) ('OMPANY r UNITII) STA'ES.
196 U. S.

77

Argument for Appellants.

Laurte, 9 Paige, 234, 235, Robnnson v Clapp, 65 Connecticut,
365, Whzpple v Flutchznson, 4 Blatchf. 190.
It makes clear the msconception of the Sherman Act and
of Federal power to regulate commerce upon which the bill
and decree proceed. They appear to go upon the theory that
under the act of Congress the Federal courts are to regulate
commerce, and the decree enjoins, not specific acts, but violations of the statute in terms as general as the act of Congress
itself. A defendant cannot know from its terms what he may
or may not do without making himself liable as in contempt.
This makes the insufficiency of the bill more obvious, as no
valid decree could have been entered upon its allegations.
The provisions of the Sherman Act do not contemplate such
a general proceeding or decree to interfere in advance with
future dealings, as interstate commerce, which may be interstate trade or may be domestic trade according to the future
and changeable intention of the dealers. United States v.
E. C Knsght Co., 156 U S. 1, 15.
The business of defendants of purchasing live stock and of
selling fresh meats produced therefrom, as described in the bill,
is not, upon the allegations of fact in the bill, interstate or
foreign commerce.
The purchase of cattle is alleged and described in the first
paragraph of the bill is not alleged or shown to be interstate
commerce.
The business of defendants of selling such fresh meats, at the
several places where they are so prepared, as described in the
second paragraph, is not, under the facts there alleged, interstate trade o commerce. The sales and deliveries, although
to dealers in other States and Territories, are there alleged to
be made at the %laces where the meats are prepared by defendants, and are domestic sales.
The deliveries by defendants to the carriers, who are agents
of the purchasers iii that respect, under the allegations of the
bill, are deliveries to the purchasers in the State where the sale
is made; and the sales and deliveries are there fully completed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Appellants.

196 U. S.

Merchant v Chapman, 4 Allen, 362; Orcutt v Nelson, 1 Gray,
543, Waldron v Romatne, 22 N. Y 368, Ramsey & Gore Co. v
Kelsea, 55 N. J L. 320; Cotte v Harden, 4 East. 211, Brown v
Hodgson, 2 Camp. 86, Gronmg v Needham, 5 Maule & S. 189;
2 Kent. Com. 499; Crossman v Lurman, 192 U S. 189, 198.'
The sellers' act in delivering the merchandise to the common
carrier, or carrying the merchandise to the carrier's depot (if
that is taken to be in effect alleged), is not any part of the
interstate transportation, and does not make the goods the
subject of interstate commerce. Coe v Errol, 116 U S. 517,
528.
The fact that the sale is made with a view to the goods
being transported by the buyer's agent to another State after
the sale and delivery is fully completed, does not make the
sale interstate commerce.
The sales alleged in the third paragraph of the bill, by agents
of the owners in other States and Territories to whom the
owners of the fresh meats have shipped the same for sale there
by such agents on the ground, are not incidents of interstate
commerce. Coe v Errol, 116 U. S. 517, 525, Kidd v Pearson, 128 U S. 1, 23, United States v E. C Knsght Co., 156
U. S. 1, 13, 17, Austin v Tennessee, 179 U S. 343, Crossman v
Lurman, 192 U S. 189, 198, Am. Harrow Co. v Shaffer, 68
Fed. Rep. 750; Stevens v Oho, 93 Fed. Rep. 793.
Under the allegations here in question, it is to be taken
that the meats, before the sales here referred to are made,
have come to their place of rest and are at rest for an indefinite
time awaiting sale at their place of destination, and are a
commodity in the market where the sales are made, and that
the sales are not in the "original packages", and that the
meats, at the time of the sales, have become a part of the
general property in the State where sold, and are there handled
and sold as such. Southern Coal Co. v Bates, 156 I S. 577,
588, Brown v Houston, 114 U S. 623, 632, Emert v Missour,
156 U S. 296, 310; Singer Mfg. Co. v Wright, 97 Georgia, 123.
The point here made is entirely consistent with the rulings

SWIFT AND COMPANY e, UNITED STATES.
196 U. S.

379

Argument for Appellants.

in many cases, that the owner of merchandise, who transports
it from one State to another for sale, has a right (which cannot
be interfered with by state or municipal laws) to sell it as an
article of interstate commerce. He also has a right to make
such article part of the general property of the State into which
it is taken, and he then has the right to sell and others have the
right to purchase it as an article of domestic commerce, which
cannot be interfered with by Federal law The Sherman Act
does not seek to and could not interfere with that right.
United States v E. C Knight Co., 156 U S. 1, 15, and Kidd v.
Pearson and Veazie v Moor, there cited. But this bill here
does seek to interfere with that right. Again, the point here
made is not touched by the line of decisions holding that state
or municipal laws are invalid, which, by taxation or other
regulations, discriminate against merchandise brought from
another State, or seek to prevent interstate commerce therein,
-such as Welton v Missoum, 91 U S. 465, Walling v Michsgan, 116 U. S. 446, Minnesota v Barber, 136 U. S. 313, Brimmer
v Rebman, 138 U. S. 78, and Schollenberger v Pennsylvana,
171 U S. 1, 24, 25.
The bill of complaint does not show any contract, combination or conspiracy m restraint of interstate trade or commerce
within the meaning of the Sherman Act.
It does not allege any acts of defendants monopolizing or
attempting to monopolize or combining or conspiring to
monopolize such trade or commerce.
If the act in question be given a construction which would
sustain this bill of complaint, the statute would be unconstitutionai.
The alleged offenses complained of are set forth in the sixth,
seventh, eighth, ninth, tenth and eleventh paragraphs of the
bill. As to the sixth and seventh paragraphs we maintain.
The allegations of combination and conspiracy here are of
mere legal conclusions. That the purchases of live stock referred to in the sixth and seventh paragraphs, as therein
alleged, are not interstate commerce.

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Argument for Appellants.

19G U. S.

The first pijragraph of the bill in which the business of purchasing live stock for slaughter is set forth and described, does
not allege oi/show that the business is interstate commerce.
The description of the live stock in the sixth paragraph, as
live stock produced and owned principally in other States and
Territories, and shipped by the owners to the places where
sold, for sale to persons engaged in producing and dealing in
fresh meat, does not show that the sales of the live stock are
interstate commerce. The live stock, when offered for sale
in the pens of the stock yards, are, under the allegations of fact
in the bill, to be considered as having become part of the general mass of property of the State where offered for sale. The
defendants purchasing the live stock have the right so to treat
and deal therewith. Brown v Houston, 114 U. S. 622, 632;
Pittsburgh Coal Co. v Bates, 156 U S. 577, 588, 589; Emert v.
Missoun, 120 U S. 489, 497 When purchased, the live stock
is, under the allegations of this bill, at rest for an indefinite
time, awaiting sale at its place of destination. Dmmond Match
Co. v Ontonagon, 188 U S. 82, 92.
The defendants have as much right, then, to treat and deal
with and purchase such live stock as an article of domestic
commerce as the State has so to treat it for the purposes of
taxation or regulation. This bill seeks to interfere with that
right under the Sherman Act.
If the sworn allegations of the bill in this respect were to be
supplemented by other facts, as matters of common knowledge,
with respect to the situation of the live stock when sold, such
as appeared in the Hopkins and Anderson cases, the case of the
Government would be no better. It would then appear that
the cattle and other live stock are shipped to commission
merchants at the stock yards; are then placed in the pens of
the stock yards companies, and there held, cared for and fed
by the stock yards company for the account of the commission
merchants, and under the allegations here it must be taken
that their bulk is broken up, they are divided into lots and sold
and delivered by the commission merchant as the principal or

SWIlr AND COMPANY ' UNI'TEI) STATES.
196 U. S.

3S1

Argument for Appellants.

owner thereof, and so are not purchased as articles of interstate commerce.
But if these purchases of live stock are interstate commerce,
the acts alleged in the sixth and seventh paragraphs are not
violations of the Sherman Act. Hopktns v United States, 171
U. S. 591, Anderson v United Slates, 171 U S. 604. They are
the exercise of a constitutional right of defendants to control
their own business.
There is nothing in the bill to show the proportion of the
entire number of head of live stock offered for sale at the markets in question, which is bought by the defendants for the
purposes of the production of fresh iieat, and so there is nothing to show anything like monopoly or attempt at monopoly
of the live stock purchases by the defendants.
There is nothing in the bill to show any attempt on the part
of the defendants to control or affect the purchases or business
in the purchases of live stock of any other persons than themselves. The alleged combinations by defendants in the sixth
and seventh paragraphs charged have to do merely with their
own business conduct in themselves buying live stock, or determining how much they shall buy, at private sale for consumption in their own private business.
The combination charged in the sixth paragraph, for directmg their respective purchasing agents "to refrain from bidding
against each other, except perfunctorily, and without good
faith," does not allege a combination to restrain trade, or even
a combnation to refrain from bidding. A perfunctory bid,
made without good faith, is one which the seller could accept
and enforce.
The alleged combination in the seventh paragraph, "for
bidding up, through their respective purchasing agents, the
prices of live stock for'a few days at a time at the said stock
yards and open markets," does not charge a combination to
restrain trade.
These alleged combinations do not have the direct and immediate effect of restraining interstate commerce, but their

O TOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Appellants.

190 U. S.

effect, if any, upon interstate trade in live stock is indirect and
incidental, within the meaning of the decisions of this court.
The effect is not near so direct or immediate as the mutual
agreement of the traders who were members of the Traders'
Exchange in the Anderson case.
Obviously the supply of live stock for fresh meat greatly
varies in the market at different seasons and times, while the
demand for fresh meats for human consumption, for which
defendants purchase such live stock, is comparatively constant
and uniform.
It is a public benefit and not a public evil that defendants
should always be able to supply such constant demand for their
fresh meats, and that at the same time they should not overstock the market with their perishable meats. This makes it
proper that they should act with some concert and conmmon
understanding in their purchases of live stock for that purpose.
As to the eighth paragraph we contend. The allegation of
combination and conspiracy is of a mere legal conclusion, and
insufficient. The sales of fresh meats by agents of defendants,
as there described, under the facts alleged, are not interstate
commerce. But if it be interstate commerce, no violation of
the Sherman Act is thereby shown.
No criminal conspiracy is alleged. The charge there is not
of a combination or conspiracy to restrain trade (which the
statute forbids), but is of a combination or conspiracy to do a
lawful act, the exercise of a constitutional right, viz: to raise,
'lower, fix and maintain their own prices, for their own property, in private sales thereof by themselves. The doing that
is not prohibited or made criminal by the Act of Congress.
A criminal conspiracy is an agreement of two or more, either
to do an act criminal or unlawful in itself, or to do a lawful act
by means which are criminal or unlawfuil. Pettibone v United
States, 148 U S. 203, Commonwealth v Shedd, 7 Cush. 514.
Here neither the act nor the means alleged are criminal or unlawful. The allegation of intent is immaterial. Stevenson v
Newham, 13 C. B. 285, Allen v Flood, App. Cas. 1.

SWIF.r AND COMPANY r UNITED StATES.
196 U. S.

383

Argument for Appellants.

Again, this point is settled by the ruling in the Krnght Case,
156 U S. l,16,that the restraint of trade, if any, which a combination by defendants to raise or lower their own prices would
tend to effect would be an indirect result, and such result would
not necessarily determine the object of the contract, combination or conspiracy
As to the ninth paragraph we contend. The allegation is of
a conclusion of law The cartage as there described is not,
under the allegations of the bill, interstate commerce. State v
Knght, 192 U S. 1, 21,Detroit&c. Ry. v Interstate Comm. Com.,
74 Fed. Rep. 803, 808, Hopkns v United States, 171 U S.
578, 592. The charge is not of a conspiracy either to (o a
criminal or unlawful act, or to do by unlawful means the lawful act of fixing their own charges for cartage. Nothing
here charged has the direct, immediate or necessary effect to
restrain interstate commerce.
As to the tenth paragraph we maintain. The allegation is of
a legal conclusion. It also is too indefinite and general. Sufficient facts are not alleged. United States v Hanley, 71 Fed.
Rep. 672.
A contract or combination among manufacturers or producers of an article which is intended to become the subject of
interstate commerce, to raise, lower and fix prices of such
article, is not necessarily a contract, combination or conspiracy in restraint of interstate trade or ai attempt to monopolize that trade under the Sherman Act. United States v
Nelson, 52 Fed. Rep. 646, In re Greene, 52 Fed. Rep. 104,
United States v E. C Knujht Co., 156 U S. 1, 16, Gibbs v
McNeeley, 102 Fed. Rep. 504. See also Distillery Co. v People,
156 Illinois, 468, Glucose Company v Hardng, 182 Illinois,
551.
There was no jurisdiction herein of this charge. No common
contract, combination or conspiracy of the defendants with
each other is alleged. The allegation that "all and each" have
made agreements for less than lawful transportation rates is
that they did so acting separately That was not unlawful on

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for the United States.

196 U. S

the part of the defendants; much less was it any violation of tle
Sherman Anti Trust Act. There is here no sufficient showing
of an attempt to monopolize either the interstate transportation
of live stock or fresh meats or interstate trade in live stock or
fresh meats. The paragraph is multifarious, and there is
therein a nusjoinder of causes and parties.
As to the eleventh paragraph we submit that it is too general and insufficient to require argument. It is disposed of
by what has been urged as to previous paragraphs.
Prior rulings by this court in cases arising under the Sherman Act do not sustain the Government's case here.
With respect to the supposed limitations of the Sherman
Act upon the right of private contract, that act is to be interpreted in the light of the principles of the common law
United States v Wong Kzm Ark, 169 U S. 649; Moore v United
States, 91 U S. 270, 274, Minor v Happersett, 21 Wall. 162;
Ex parte Wilson, 114 U S. 417, 422, Boyd v United States, 116
U. S. 616, 624, Smith v Alabama, 124 U S. 465.
The bill of complaint is multifarious; and there is therein a
misjoinder of causes and of parties. Walker v Powers, 104
U S. 251, Brown v Guarantee Trust Company, 128 U S. 403,
Zegler v Lake Street Railway, 76 Fed. Rep. 662.
The bill is too general and indefinite to require answer.
It does not sufficiently set forth definite or specific facts.
The demurrers to so much of the bill as prays for answer
under oath, and to so much thereof as prays discovery of defendants' books, papers, etc., are well taken.
Rights protected by the Fourth and Fifth Amendments are
thereby infringed. United States v Saline Bank:, 1 Pet. 100;
Boyd v United States, 116 U S. 616, Counselman v Hitchcock,
142 U S. 547, Lswngston v Tompkm.ns, 4 Johns. Ch. 415, 432,
Entick v Carnngton, 19 Howell's St. Tr. 1029; S. C., 2 Wils.
275, Huckle v Money, 2 Wils. 206, Mitford & Tyler's Eq.
Pldg. 289.
Mr Attorney General Moody, with whom Mr Willzam A.

SWIiF"r AND COMPIANY r. UNITEI) ST.ATES.
196 U. S.

385

Argument for the United States.

Day, Assistait to the Attorney General, was on the brief, for
the United States:
The facts show a combination which restrains or monopolizes
trade or commerce and operates upon and directly affects interstate or foreign trade or commerce.
The combination or conspiracy which the Government is
seeking to destroy and which it was the aim of the petition in
this case to set forth is one between all the principal American
producers or packers of fresh meats for the purpose of jointly
controlling the market for those products throughout the
entire United States so as to maintain uniform prices therefor
and destroy competition in the sale thereof to dealers and
consumers.
The combination set forth in the bill is in restraint of trade,
for if in the entire field of the law concerning monopolies and
restraints of trade there is a single proposition to which all
courts now yield assent, it is that a combination, conspiracy,
or agreement between independent manufacturers or producers
of a necessary of life to fix and maintain uniform prices for their
products, or otherwise to suppress competition with each other,
is an unlawful restraint upon trade. United States v E. C.
Knight Co., 156 U. S. 1, 16, United States v Trans-Missour
FreightAssociation, 166 U. S. 290; United States v Joint Traffic
Association, 171 U S. 505, Addyston Pipe & Steel Co. v United
States, 175 U S. 211, Northern Securities Co. v United States,
193 U. S. 197, Chesapeake & Ohio Fuel Co. v United States, 115
Fed. Rep. 610; judgments of Lord Bramwell and Lord Hannen
in Mogul S. S. Co. v McGregor, L. R. App. Cas. (1892) 46, 58,
Morris Run Coal Co. v Barclay Coal Co., 68 Pa. St. 155, 173,
Nester et al. v Continental Brewing Co., 161 Pa. St. 473, Salt
Co. v Guthrie, 35 Ohio St. 166, People v Sheldon, 139 N. Y
251, Cummings v Union Blue Stone Co., 164 N. Y 405, Trenton
Potteries Co. v Olyphant, 58 N. J Eq. 507, Craft v McConoughby, 79 Illinois, 346, Noyes on Intercorporate Relations,
p. 513, note 1, and see the cases collected, and necessarily the
means agreed upon to effect the unlawful object of the comVOL. cxcvi-25

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for the United States.

196 U. S.

bination of conspiracy are inseparable parts of the combination
or conspiracy itself, and along with it fall within the condemnation of the law
The combination or conspiracy in controversy operates upon
interstate or foreign commerce, and its operations are not confined to commerce carried on wholly within state lines.
The sales of live stock to the defendants and the sales by
them of the prepared meats are interstate and not intrastate
transactions.
As to what is interstate commerce, see Gibbons v Ogden, 9
Wheat. 1, 194, Northern Securities Co. v United States, 193
U. S. 197, 337 If interstate commerce is commerce which
concerns more States than one, and if a combination of independent producers to suppress competition between its iieiibers is a restraint upon commerce, it must follow that a combination of independent producers to fix and control prices
and suppress competition between each other in an area covering more States than one is in restraint of interstate commerce
and the petition in this case discloses such a combination.
It is impossible to say with even a color of reason that the
facts stated in the bill, which cannot be denied, do not show
a combination between the defendants to suppress competition
between themselves in an area embracing more States than
one and it is immaterial to inquire whether the particular
purchases and sales made by the defendants are, technically,
interstate or intrastate transactions. There is nothing unreasonable or novel in the conclusion that a combination may
restrain interstate commerce, although the individual transactions of its members might, standing alone and viewed
separate and apart from the purpose and necessary effect of
the whole combination, be intrastate in character. Montaguze
& Co. v Lowry, 193 U S. 38. The character of a combination
-that is, whether or not it is interstate in its operation-s decided, not by the nature of the particular transactions of its
individual members, but by the extent of the territory in
which it operates-in which it controls prices and sales and

SWIFT AND COMPANY r
196 U. S.

UNI'rEi) s'"ATES.

387

Argument for the United States.

suppresses competition. If that territory embraces more
States than one the combination restrains interstate cominerce. Addyston Pspe & Steel Co. v United States, 175 U S.
211, 240.
Whether a combination in restraint of trade operates upon
interstate or only intrastate commerce does not depend upon
whether the individual transactions of its members, standing
alone and viewed separate and apart from the purpose and
necessary effect of the whole combination, are interstate or
intrastate in character, and the petition here discloses a combination which operates upon znterstate commerce, for whatever
may be the character of the individual transactions of its
several members, it is also true in this case that the individual
transactions of the members of the combination do fall within
the jurisdiction conferred upon Congress by the commerce
clause of the Constitution. These transactions consist of the
defendants' purchases of live stock, the sales and shipments of
fresh meats made directly by the defendants to dealers and
consumers in the several States, and the sales of fresh meats
to dealers and consumers in the several States by agents of the
defendants located in those States.
From all over the stock-raising section, embracing many
different States, cattle, sheep and hogs are habitually shipped
to the great live-stock markets at Chicago, Omaha, Sioux City,
St. Joseph, Kansas City, East St. Louis and St. Paul for sale,
to those, the defendants chief among them, engaged in the
business of converting live stock into fresh meats for human
consumption. The shipments are made with the express and
sole purpose of §ale as soon as market conditions will permit,
and the sales are made while the cattle yet remain in first
hands, that is, in the hands of the owners or their agents, and
in the ordinary form or condition in which cattle are shipped
from one country or State to another, which is analogous
to the form or condition of the original package in the case
Austin v Tennessee, 179 U S. 343,
of merchandise.
359.

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for the United States.

196 U. S.

The cattle are not dealt with in a commercial way from the
time of their arrival until their sale to the defendants and
others, but are simply fed and cared for. No act is done with
reference to them that would cause them to become mixed
with the general mass of local property Now, it may be that,
a distinction should be made between what may be called an
interstate sale proper and in the full sense of the term-that is,
a sale between persons negotiating and dealing from two or
more different States, and a sale, at its destination and while it
still remains in the original state or package, of an article of
commerce sent from another State. But so far as the result
in this instance is concerned it is a distinction without a difference. If the sales of live stock set forth in the petition do not
fall within the first of these classes they certainly fall within the
second, and that brings them within the protection of the
Federal power over commerce and therefore within the protection of the Anti Trust Act; for the right to transport articles
of commerce from one State to another includes the right of
the owner or consignee to sell them in the latter free from any
burden or restraint that the States might attempt to impose.
Brown v Maryland, 12 Wheat. 419, Bownman v Chwago and
Northwestern Railway Co., 125 U S. 465, Lesy v Hardin,135
U S. 100; Rhodes v Iowa, 170 U. S. 412, and, a fortioin. free
from any burden or restraint that a combination of individuals
might attempt to impose. In re Debs, 158 U S. 564, 581,
Hopkzns v United States, 171 U S. 578, 590.
Paragraph 2 of the bill contains matter of description and
inducement, and must be read in conjunction with the stating
part of the petition, which alleges, -interalia, that "in order to
restrain and destroy competition among themselves" the defendants have engaged in a "combination and conspiracy to
arbitrarily from time to time raise, lower, and fix prices, and
to maintain uniform prices at which they will sell, directly or
through their respective agents, such fresh meats to dealers
and consumers throughout the said States and Territories and
the District of Columbia and foreign countries."

SWIF'r AND COMPANY r UNITE!) STATES.
1906 U. S.

389

Argument for the United States.

As the sales made directly by the defendants to dealers and
consumers throughout the United States are interstate sales,
and as decisions of this court have settled that a combination
to control and suppress competition in such sales is a combination in restraint of interstate commerce, the petition in this
case, having shown that much, cannot in any event be dismissed, even should it be held to have failed in all other
respects.
Paragraph 3 of the petition states that the defendants are
engaged in shipping fresh meats from their plants in certain
States to their respective agents at and near the principal
markets in other States and Territories for sale by such agents
to dealers and consumers in those States and Territories.
Upon the question whether or not the sales made by these
agents under the circumstances set forth are within the body
of interstate commerce, there is nothing to add to the cogent
argument in the opinion of the circuit judge.
The bill is not multifarious and does not disclose a misjoinder of parties. 14 Ency of P1. and Pr. 198, 1 Bates Fed.
Eq. Pro. §§ 135, 195. The Circuit Court did not err in sustaining the demurrers to the bill in its aspect as a bill of discovery The demurrers are demurrers to the whole bill.
Lwngston v Story, 9 Pet. 632, 654.
The well-settled rule of equity pleading is that a demurrer
to a whole bill cannot be sustained as to part of the bill and
overruled as to part, but must be overruled as to the whole if
any part of the bill is good and entitles the complainant to
any relief. Fletcher, Eq. P1. §§ 203, 204, Story, Eq. Pl.,
10th ed., §§ 443, 444, Parkerv Simpson, 62 N. E. Rep. (Mass.)
401, Metler's Admn's. v Metler, 18 N. J Eq. 270, 273. When
the defendants leveled their demurrers at the relief as well as
the discovery, instead of answering as to the relief and demurring as to the discovery they did so at their peril. Daniell's
Chan. Prac., 3d Am. ed., 568-608, see also Acts of Congress
of February 25, 1903, 32 Stat. 903, of February 11, 1893, 27
Stat. 443, and Interstate Comm. Com. v Baird, 194 U S. 25, 44,

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

196 U. S.

citing Brown v Walker, 161 U1 S. 591, Boyd v United States,
116 U S. 616.
Judges have differed as to the validity of aggregations of
capital effected by sonm form of organic union between several
smaller and competing corporations, and economists are far
from agreeing that such aggregations, within limitations, are
hurtful. So too, associations of manufacturers to regulate
competition within a restricted area have not always been
condemned by courts and have sometimes been approved by
publicists. But as yet no responsible voice has been heard to
justify, legally or economically, a conspiracy or agreement
between nearly all the producers of a commodity necessary to
life by which the confederates acquire absolute control and
dominion over the production, sale and distribution of that
commodity throughout the entire territory of a nation, with
the power, at will, to raise prices to the consumer of the finished
product and lower prices to the producer of the raw material.
Yet such is that now at the bar of this court. That there is a
conspiracy to control the market of the nation for fresh meats,
that it does control it, and that its control is merciless and
oppressive, are facts known of all men. The broad question
here is, Does the Government's petition, with its statements of
fact standing unchallenged, discover that conspiracy to the
court? We submit that it does and that the decree of the
Circuit Court should in all things be affirmed.
Mn. JuSTICE HOLmEs delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal from a decree of the Circuit Court, on
demurrer, granting an injunction against the appellants' commission of alleged violations of the act of July 2, 1890, c. 647,
26 Stat. 209, "to protect trade and commerce against unlawful
restraints and monopolies." It will be necessary to consider
both the bill and the decree. The bill is brought against a
number of corporations, firms and individuals of different
States and makes the following allegations: 1. The defend-

SWIFT ANI) (OMPANY
196 U. S.

r. UNITEI) STATES.

;,91

Opinion of the Court.

ants (appellants) are engaged in the l)usiness of buying live
stock at the stock yards in Chicago, Omaha, St. Joseph,

Kansas City, East St. Louis and St. Paul, and slaughtering
such live stock at their respective plants in places named,
in different States, and converting the live stock into fresh
meat for human consumption. 2. The defendants "are also
engaged in the business of selling such fresh meats, at the
several places where they are so prepared, to dealers and consuniers in divers States and Territories of the said United
States other than those wherein the sai(d meats are so prepared
and sold as aforesaid, and in the District of Columbia, and in
foreign countries, and shipping the same meats, when so sold
from the said places of their preparation, over the several lines
of transportation of the several railroad companies serving the
same as common carriers, to such dealers and consumers,
pursuant to such sales." 3. The defendants also are engaged
in the business of slipping such fresh meats to their respective
agents at the principal markets in other States, etc., for sale
by those agents in those markets to dealers and consumers.
4. The defendants together control about six-tenths of the
whole trade and commerce in fresh meats among the States,
Territories and District of Columbia, and, 5, but for the acts
charged would be in free competition with one another.
6. In order to restrain competition among themselves as to
the purchase of live stock, defendants have engaged in, and
intend to continue, a combination for requiring and do and
will require their respective purchasing agents at the stock
yards mentioned, where defendants buy their live stock (the
same being stock produced and owned principally in other
States and shipped to the yards for sale), to refrain from
bidding against tach other, "except perfunctorily and without
good faith," and by this means compelling the owners of such
stock to sell at less prices than they would receive if the bidding
really was competitive.
7 For the same purposes the defendants combine to bid up,
through their agents, the prices of live stock for a few days at

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

190 U. S.

a time, "so that the market reports will show prices much
higher than the state of the trade will warrant," thereby in- ducing stock owners in other States to make large shipments
to the stock yards to their disadvantage.
8. For the same purposes, and to monopolize the commerc
protected by the statute, the defendants combine "to arbitrarily, from time to time raise, lower, and fix prices, and to
maintain uniform prices at which they will sell" to dealers
throughout the States. This is effected by secret periodical
meetings, where are fixed prices to be enforced until changed
at a subsequent meeting. The prices are maintained directly,
and by collusively restricting the meat shipped by the defendants, whenever conducive to the result, by imposing penalties
for deviations, by establishing a uniform rule for the giving of
credit to dealers, etc., and by notifying one another of the
delinquencies of such dealers and keeping a black list of delinquents, and refusing to sell meats to them.
9. The defendants also combine to make uniform charges
for cartage for the delivery of meats sold to dealers and consumers in the markets throughout the States, etc., shipped
to them by the defendants through the defendants' agents at
the markets, when no charges would have been made but for
the combination.
10. Intending to monopolize the said commerce and to prevent competition therein, the defendants "have all and each
engaged in and will continue" arrangements with the railroads
whereby the defendants received, by means of rebates and
other devices, rates less than the lawful rates for transportation, and were exclusively to enjoy and share this unlawful
advantage to the exclusion of competition and the public.
By force of the consequent inability of competitors to engage
or continue in such commerce, the defendants are attempting
to monopolize, have monopolized, and will monopolize the
commerce in live stock and fresh meats among the States and
Territories, and with foreign countries, and, 11, the defendants are and have been in conspiracy with each other, with

SWIFT AND COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
190 U. S.

393

Opinion of the Court.

the railroad companies and others unknown, to obtain a
monopoly of the supply and distribution of fresh meats throughout the United States, etc. And to that end defendants
artificially restrain the commerce and put arbitrary regulations
in force affecting the same from the shipment of the live stock
from the plains to the final distribution of the meats to the
consumers. There is a prayer for an injunction of the most
comprehensive sort, against all the foregoing proceedings and
others, for discovery of books and papers relating directly or
indirectly to the purchase or shipment of live stock, and the
sale or shipment of fresh meat, and for an answer under oath.
The injunction issued is appended in a note.1
I "And now, upon motion of the said attorney, the court doth order that
the preliminary injunction heretofore awarded in this cause, to restrain the
said defendants and each of them, their respective agents and attorneys,
and all other persons acting in their behalf, or in behalf of either of them,
or claiming so to act, from entering into, taking part in, or performing any
contract, combination or conspiracy, the purpose or effect of which will be,
as to trade and commerce in fresh meats between the several States and
Territories and the District of Columbia, a restraint of trade, in violation of
the provisions of the act of Congress approved July 2, 1890, entitled 'An act
to protect trade and commerce against unlawful restraints and monopolies,'
either by directing or requirin. their respective agents to refrain from bidding
against each other in the purchase of live stock; or collusively and by agreement to refrain from bidding against each other at the sales of live stock; or
by combination, conspiracy or contract raising or lowering prices or fixing
uniform prices at which the said meats will be sold, either directly or through
their respective agents; or by curtailing the quantity of such meats shipped
to such markets and agents; or by establishing and maintaining rules for
the giving of credit to dealers in such meats, the effect of which rules will be
to restrict competition; or by imposing uniform charges for cartage and
delivery of such meats to dealers and consumers, the effect of which will be
to restrict competition; or by any other method or device, the purpose and
effect of which is to restrain commerce as aforesaid; and also from violating
the provisions of the act of Congress approved July 2, 1890, entitled 'An
act to protect trade and commerce against unlawful restraints and monopolies,' by combining or conspiring together, or with each other and
others, to monopolize or attempt to monopolize any part of the trade and
commerce in fresh meats among the several States and Territories and the
District of Columbia, by demanding, obtaining, or, with or without the
connivance of the officers or agents thereof, or of any of them, receiving from
railroad companies or other common carriers transporting such fresh meats

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

196 U. S.

To sum up the bill more shortly, it charges a combination
of a dominant proportion of the dealers in fresh meat throughout the United States/not to bid against each other in the live
stock markets of the different States, to bid up prices for a
few days in order to induce the cattle men to send their stock
to the stock yards, to fix prices at which they will sell, and to
that end to restrict shipments of meat when necessary, to
establish a uniform rule of credit to dealers and to keep a
black list, to make uniform and improper charges for cartage,
and finally, to get less than lawful rates from the railroads to
the exclusion of competitors. It -is true that the last charge
is not clearly stated to be a part of the combination. But as
it is alleged that the defendants have each and all made arrangements with the railroads, that they were exclusively to
enjoy the unlawful advantage, and that their intent in what
they did was to monopolize the commerce and to prevent conipetition, and in view of the general allegation to which we
in such trade and commerce, either directly or by means of rebates, or by
any other device, transportation of or for such means, from the points of
the preparation and production of the same from live stock or elsewhere, to
the markets for the sale of the same to dealers and consumers in other States
and Territories than those wherein the same are so prepared, or the District
of Columbia, at less than the regular rates which may be established or in
force on their several lines of transportation, under the provisions in that
behalf of the laws of the said United States for the regulation of commerce,
be and the same is hereby made perpetual.
"But nothing herein shall be construed to prohibit the said defendants
from agreeing upon charges for cartage and delivery, and other incidents
connected with local sales, where such charges are not calculated to have
any effect upon competition in the sales and delivery of meats; nor from
establishing and maintaining rules for the giving of credit to dealers where
such rules in good faith are calculated solely to protect the defendants against
dishonest or irresponsible dealers, nor from curtailing the quantity of meats
shipped to a given market where the purpose of such arrangement in good
faith is to prevent the over-accumulation of meats as perishable articles in
such markets.
"Nor shall anything herein contained be construed to restrain or interfere with the action of any single company or firm, by its or their officers
or agents (whether such officers or agents are themselves personally made
parties defendant hereto or not) acting with respect to its or their own
corporate or firm business, property or affairs."

sI\rl AND COMPANY *' UNITEI) STATES.
19IU. S.

395

Opinion of the Court.

shall refer, we think that we have stated correctly the purport
of the bill. It will be noticed further that the intent to monopolize is alleged for the first time in the eighth section of the
bill as to raising, lowering and fixing prices. In the earlier
sections, the intent alleged is to restrain competition among
themselves. But after all the specific charges there is a general allegation that the defendants are conspiring with one
another, the railroads and others, to monopolize the supply
and distribution of fresh meats throughout the United States,
etc., as has been stated above, and it seems to us that this
general allegation of intent colors and applies to all the specific
charges of the bill. Whatever may be thought concerning the
proper construction of the statute, a bill in equity is not to be
read and construed as an indictment would have been read and
construed a hundred years ago, but it is to be taken to mean
what it fairly conveys to a dispassionate reader by a fairly
exact use of English speech. Thus read this bill seems to us
intended to allege successive elements of a single connected
scheme.
We read the demurrer with the same liberality Therefore
we take it as applying to the bill generally for multifariousness
and want of equity, and also to each section of it which makes
a charge and to the discovery The demurrer to the discovery
will not need discussion in the view which we take concerning
the relief, and therefore we turn at once to that.
The general objection is urged that the bill does not set
forth sufficient definite or specific facts. This objection is
serious, but it seems to us inherent in the nature of the case.
The scheme alleged is so vast that it presents a new problem
in pleading. If, as we must assume, the scheme is entertained, it is, of course, contrary to the very words of the
statute. Its size makes the violation of the law more conspicuous, and yet the same thing makes it impossible to fasten
the principal fact to a certain time and place. The elements,
too, are so numerous and shifting, even the constituent parts
alleged are and from their nature must be so extensive in time

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

196 U. S.

and space, that something of the same impossibility applies to
them. The law has been uphehl, and therefore we are bound
to enforce it notwithstanding these difficulties. On the other
hand, we equally are bound by the first principles of justice
not to sanction a decree so vague as to put the whole conduct
of the defendants' business at the peril of a summons for con-'
tempt. We cannot issue a general injunction against all possible breaches of the law We must steer between these opposite difficulties as best we can.
The scheme as a whole seems to us to be within reach of the
law The constituent elements, as we have stated them, are
enough to give to the scheme a body and, for all that we can
say, to accomplish it. Moreover, whatever we may think of
them separately when we take them up as distinct charges,
they are alleged sufficiently as elements of the schenme. It is
suggested that the several acts charged are lawful and that
intent can make no difference. But they are bound together
as the parts of a single plan. The plan may make the parts
unlawful. Aikens v Wiscormn, 195 U S. 194, 206. The
statute gives this proceeding against combinations in restraint
of commerce among the States and against attempts to monopolize the same. Intent is almost essential to such a combination and is essential to such an attempt. Where acts are
not sufficient in themselves to produce a result which the law
seeks to prevent-for instance, the monopoly-but require
further acts in addition to the mere forces of nature to bring
that result to pass, an intent to bring it to pass is necessary in
order to produce a dangerous probability that it will happen.
Commonwealth v Peaslee, 177 Massachusetts, 267, 272. But
when that intent and the consequent dangerous probability
exist, this statute, like many others and like the common law
m some cases, directs itself against that dangerous probability
as well as against the completed result. What we have said
disposes incidentally of the objection to the bill as multifarious.
The unity of the plan embraces all the parts.
One further observation should be made. Although the

SWIFT AND COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
196 U. S.

397

Opinion of the Court.

combination alleged embraces restraint and monopoly of trade
within a single State, its effect upon commerce among the
States is not accidental, secondary, remote or merely probable.
On the allegations of the bill the latter commerce no less,
perhaps even more, than commerce within a single State is an
object of attack. See Leloup v Port olMobile, 127 U S. 640,'
647, Crutcher v Kentucky, 141 U. S. 47, 59; Allen v Pulhnan
Co., 191 U S. 171, 179, 180. Moreover, it is a direct object,
it is that for the sake of which the several specific acts and
courses of conduct are done and adopted. Therefore the case
is not like United States v E. C. Knght Co., 156 U S. 1, where
the subject matter of the combination was manufacture and
the direct object monopoly of manufacture within a State.
However likely monopoly of commerce among the States in
the article manufactured was to follow from the agreement it
was not a necessary consequence nor a primary end. Here the
subject matter is sales and the very point of the combination
is to restrain and monopolize commerce among the States in
respect of such sales. The two cases are near to each other,
as sooner or later always must happen where lines are to be
drawn, but the line between them is distinct. Montague &
Co. v Lowry, 193 U S. 38.
So, again, the line is distinct between this case and Hopksns
v United States, 171 U S. 578. All that was decided there
was that the local business of commission merchants was not
commerce among the States, even if what the brokers were
employed to sell was an object of such commerce. The brokers
were not like the defendants before us, themselves the buyers
and sellers. They only furnished certain facilities for the
sales. Therefore, there again the effects of the combination
of brokers upon the commerce was only indirect and not
within the act. Whether the case would have been different
if the combination had resulted in exorbitant charges, was
left open. In Anderson v United Slates, 171 U S. 604, the
defendants were buyers and sellers at the stock yards, but
their agreement was merely not to employ brokers, of to

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

196 U. S.

recognize yard-traders, who were not members of their association. Any yard-trader could become a member of the
association on complying with the conditions, and there was
said to be no feature of monopoly in the case. It was hehl
that the combination did not directly regulate commerce between the States, and, being formed with a different intent,
was not within the act. The present case is more like Montague & Co. v Lowry, 193 U S. 38.
For the foregoing reasons we are of opinion that the carrying
out of the scheme alleged, by the means set forth, properly
may be enjoined, and that the bill cannot be dismissed.
So far it has not been necessary to consider whether the
facts charged in any single paragraph constitute commerce
among the States or show an interference with it. There can
be no doubt, we apprehend, as to the collective effect of all
the facts, if true, and if the defendants entertain the intent
alleged. We pass now to the particulars, and will consider
the corresponding parts of the injunction at the same time.
The first question arises on the sixth section. That charges
a combination of independent dealers to restrict the coinpetition of their agents when purchasing stock for them in the
stock yards. The purchasers and their slaughtering establishments are largely in different States from those of the
stock yards, and the sellers of the cattle, perhaps it is not too
much to assume, largely in different States from either. The
intent of the combination is not merely to restrict competition
among the parties, but, as we have said, by force of the general
allegation at the end of the bill, to aid in an attempt to monopolize commerce among the States.
It is said that this charge is too vague and that it does not
set forth a case of commerce among the States. Taking up
the latter objection first, commerce among the States is not a
technical legal conception, but a practical one, drawn from
the course of business. When cattle are sent for sale from a
place in one State, with the expectation that they will end
their transit, after purchase, in another, and when in effect

SWIrU AND COMPANY c
196 U. S.

UNITED STATES.

399

Opinion of the Court.

they do so, with only the interruption necessary to find a
purchaser at the stock yards, and when this is a typical, constantly recurring course, the current thus existing is a current
of commerce among the States, and the purchase of the cattle
is a part and incident of such commerce. What we say is true
at least of such a purchase by residents in another State from
that of the seller and of the cattle. And we need not trouble
ourselves at this tine as to whether the statute could be
escaped by any arrangement as to the place where the sale in
point of law is consummated. See Norfolk & Western Ry. v.
Sims, 191 U. S. 441. But the sixth section of the bill charges
an interference with such sales, a restraint of the parties by
mutual contract and a combination not to compete in order
to monopolize. It is immaterial if the section also embraces
domestic transactions.
It should be added that the cattle in the stock yard are not
at rest even to the extent that was held sufficient to warrant
taxation in Amercan Steel & Wire Co. v Speed, 192 U. S. 500.
But it may be that the question of taxation does not depend
upon whether the article taxed may or may not be said to be
in the course of commerce between the States, but depends
upon whether the tax so far affects that commerce as to
amount to a regulation of it. The injunction against taking
part in a combination, the effect of which will be a restraint
of trade among the States by directing the defendants' agents
to refrain from bidding against one another at the sales of live
stock, is justified so far as the subject matter is concerned.
The injunction, however, refers not to trade among the
States in cattle, concerning which there can be no question of
original packages, but to trade in fresh meats, as the trade
forbidden to be restrained, and it is objected that the trade in
fresh meats described in the second and third sections of the
bill is not commerce among the States, because the meat is
sold at the slaughtering places, or when sold elsewhere may
be sold in less than the original packages. But the allegations
of the second section, even if they import a technical passing

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

196 U. S.

of title at the slaughtering places, also import that the sales
are to persons in othr States, and that the shipments to other
States are part of thy transaction--" pursuant to such sales"and the third section imports that the same things which are
sent to agents are sol by them, and sufficiently indicates that
some at least of the sales are of the original packages. More:
over, the sales are by persons in one State to persons in another.
But we do not mean to imply that the rule which marks the
point at which state taxation or regulation becomes permissible necessarily is beyond the scope of interference by
Congress in cases where such interference is deemed necessary
for the protection of commerce among the States. Nor do we
mean to intimate that the statute under consideration is
limited to that point. Beyond what we have said above, we
leave those questions as we find them. They were touched
upon in the Northern Securites Company's Case, .193 U S. 197
We are of opinion, further, that the charge in the sixth section is not too vague. The charge is not of a single agreement
but of a course of conduct intended to be continued. Under
the act it is the duty of the court, when applied to, to stop the
conduct. The thing (lone and intended to be done is perfectly
definite: with the purpose mentioned, directing the defendants'
agents and inducing each other to refrain from competition in
bids. The defendants cannot be ordered to compete, but they
properly can be forbidden to give directions or to make agreements not to compete. See Addyston Pipe & Steel Co. v
United States, 175 U S. 211. The injunction follows the charge.
No objection was made on the ground that it is not confined
to the places specified in the bill. It seems to us, however,
that it ought to set forth more exactly the transactions m
which such directions and agreements are forbidden. The
trade in fresh meat referred to should be defined somewhat
as it is in the bill, and the sales of stock should be confined to
sales of stock at the stock yards named, which stock is sent
from other States to the stock yards for sale or is bought at
those yards for transport to another State.

S
196 U. S.

rIFT AND COM3PANYv . UNITED STATES.

401

Opinon of the Court.

After what we have said, the seventh, eighth and ninth sections need no special remark, except that the cartage referred
to in section nine is not an independent matter, such as was
dealt with in Pennsylvana R. R. Co. v Knzght, 192 U S. 21,
but a part of the contemplated transit-cartage for delivery
of the goods. The general words of the injunction "or by
any other method or device, the purpose and effect of which
is to restrain commerce as aforesaid," should be stricken out.
The defendants ought to be informed as accurately as the case
permits what they are forbidden to do. Specific devices are
mentioned in the bill, and they stand prohibited. The words
quoted are a sweeping injunction to obey the law, and are
open to the objection which we stated at the beginning that
it was our duty to avoid. To the same end of definiteness so
far as attainable, the words "as charged in the bill," should
be inserted between "dealers in such meats," and "the effect
of which rules," and two lines lower, as to charges for cartage,
the same words should be inserted between "dealers and consumers" and "the effect of which."
The acts charged in the tenth section, apart from the combination and the intent, may, perhaps, not necessarily be
unlawful, except for the adjective which proclaims them so.
At least we may assume, for purposes of decision, that they
are not unlawful. The defendants, severally, lawfully may obtain less than the regular rates for transportation if the circumstances are not substantially similar to those for which
the regular rates are fixed. Act of Feb. 4, 1887, c. 104, § 2,
24 Stat. 379. It may be that the regular rates are fixed for
carriage in cars furnished by the railroad companies, and that
the defendants furnish their own cars and other necessities of
transportation. We see nothing to hinder them from combining to that end. We agree, as we already have said, that
such a combination may be unlawful as part of the general
scheme set forth in the bill, and that this scheme as a whole
might be enjoined. Whether this particular combination can
be enjoined, as it is, apart from its connection with the other
VOL. cxovi-26

OCTOBER TERMI, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

106 U. S.

elements, if entered into with the intent to monopolize, as
alleged, is a more delicate question. The question is how it
would stand if the tenth section were the whole bill. Not
every act that may be done with intent to produce an unlawful
result is unlawful, or constitutes an attempt. It is a question
of proximity and degree. The distinction between mere preparation and attempt is well known in the criminal law Commonwealth v Peaslee, 177 Massachusetts, 267, 272. The same
distinction is recognized in cases like the present. United
States v E. C Knight Co., 156 U S. 1, 13, Kidd v Pearson,
128 U S. 1, 23, 24. We are of opinion, however, that such a
combination is within the meaning of the statute. It is obvious that no more powerful instrument of monopoly could
be used than an advantage in the cost of transportation. And
even if the advantage is one which the act of 1887 permits,
which is denied, perhaps inadequately, by the adjective "unlawful," still a combination to use it for the purpose prohibited
by the act of 1890 justifies the adjective and takes the permission away
It only remains to add that the foregoing question does not
apply to the earlier sections, which charge direct restraints of
trade within the decisions of the court., and that the criticism
of the decree, as if it ran generally against combinations in
restraint of trade or to monopolize trade, ceases to have any
force when the clause against "any other method or device"
is stricken out. So modified it restrains such combinations
only to the extent of certain specified devices, which the defendants are alleged to have used and intend to continue to
use.
Decree modified and affirmed.

