LUCIUS v. CAWTHON-COLEBMAN CO.
196 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

LUCIUS v. CAWTHON-COLEMAN COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF ALABAMA.
-No. 110. Submitted December 13, 1904.-Decided January 3, 1905.

The bankruptcy court has jurisdiction to determine on a claim asserted by
the bankrupt whether property in the hands of the trustee is exempt; and
while an erroneous decision against the asserted right may be corrected
in the appropriate mode for the correction of errors, the jurisdiction of
the court is not in issue within the meaning of the act of March 3, 1891,
and a direct appeal to this court will not lie.

THIS is an appeal from a decree of the District Court of the
United States for the Southern District of Alabama, sitting in
bankruptcy, establishing and directing the enforcement of a
lien upon the proceeds of two policies of insurance in the hands
of the trustee m bankruptcy The District Court filed findings
of fact and its conclusions of law, in pursuance to the third
subdivision of General Order in Bankruptcy 36, and an appeal
was taken upon the question of jurisdiction alone, under the
supposed authority of the fifth section of the judiciary act of
March 3, 1891.
In substance the pertinent facts stated in the findings were
as follows:
D. D Lucius, a resident citizen of Alabama, was, in voluntary
proceedings, adjudged a bankrupt, and the case was sent to a
referee. In his schedules, Lucius claimed as exempt drugs to
the value of $1,000 and $1,000 of a balance of $1,150 due upon
the aforementioned policies of insurance. The policies subsequently came into the possession of the trustee in bankruptcy
The Cawthon-Coleman Company were creditors of Lucius
for about the sum of $1,000, evidenced by a note containing a

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Appellant.

196 U. S.

waiver of eieinption of personal property, and secured by a
mortgage upon tQe homestead of Lucius, which mortgage contained a stipulation for insurance for the benefit of the mortgagees. The two policies above referred to were obtained in
consequence of the stipu&4tion referred to, and while in force
and before the adjudication in bankruptcy the dwelling insured was destroyed by fire. Claiming, by reason of the facts
just stated, an equitable lien upon the proceeds of the msurance, the Cawthon-Coleman Company filed a petition in the
bankruptcy proceedings to establish and enforce their alleged
lien. During the pendency of this proceeding the trustee in
bankruptcy collected the balance due upon the policies. The
trustee reported an allowance of the exemption out of such
proceeds as claimed by the bankrupt, and shortly afterwards
the bankrupt filed a plea denying jurisdiction in the court to
hear and determine the claim of lien. This plea was overruled
by the referee, who also refused to confirm the allowance of the
exemption claimed by the bankrupt, and an order was made
by the referee directing the trustee to pay to the CawthonColeman Company on the mortgage indebtedness the sum of
$1,001.40 out of the insurance proceeds. Thereafter, to quote
from the findings, "upon a review by the district judge sitting
in bankruptcy, of the referee's decision, the judge affirmed it,
and rendered a decree asserting that the bankruptcy court had
jurisdiction to hear and determine this matter, and granted
the relief prayed by the petition of Cawthon-Coleman Company" This appeal on the question of jurisdiction was then
taken direct to this court.
Mr Harry Pillans and Mr William James Johnson for appellant:
The bankruptcy court is of limited jurisdiction and has only
the authority conferred by the statute creating it. Re Mons,
Fed. Cas. 9,825, Collier on Bankruptcy, 11. Where jurisdiction
of the court has been sustained see Re Turnbull, 106 Fed. Rep.
667, Re Mayer, 108 Fed. Rep. 599; McGahan v Anderson, 113

LUCIUS v. CAWTHON-COLEMAN
190 U. S.

CO.

Opinon of the Court.

Fed. Rep. 115, Brand. on Bankr., 2d ed., 126, §2, and cases
there cited. It has, however, been expressly held that property generally exempt cannot be subjected rn the bankruptcy
court to the satisfaction of the debt of a creditor who holds a
waiver of exemption as to this particular debt, or has a claim
of lien on the exempt property Re Gnmes, 96 Fed. Rep. 534,
Woodruff v Cheeves, 105 Fed. Rep. 601, 606, Re Hill, 96 Fed.
Rep. 185, Lockwood v Exchange Bank, 190 U S. 294, Re Hatch,
102 Fed. Rep. 280; Re Jackson, 116 Fed. Rep. 46, Ingram v
Wilson, 125 Fed. Rep. 913.
The cases cited by the judge below, to the effect that the
court had jurisdiction, to wit: Cannon v Dexter Broom Co., 120
Fed. Rep. 657, Re Butler, 120 Fed. Rep. 100; Re Boyd, 120 Fed.
Rep. 999; Re Campbell, 124 Fed. Rep. 417, are all on the border
line. They involve cases in which the state statutes provided
that goods shall not be exempt against claims for the unpaid
purchase price. They are flatly opposed by the cases cited
supra.
There was no appearance or brief for appellee.
after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.
MR. JUSTICE Wmr,

By the express terms of subdivision 11 of section 2 of the
Bankruptcy Act of 1898 jurisdiction is conferred upon courts
of bankruptcy to determine all claims of bankrupts to their
exemptions. When, therefore, as in the case at bar, property
of the bankrupt has come into the possession of the trustee in
bankruptcy, and the bankrupt has asserted in the bankruptcy
court a claim to be entitled to a part or the whole of such property, as exempt property, the bankruptcy court necessarily is
vested with jurisdiction to determine upon the facts before it
the validity of the clanned exemption. An erroneous decision
against an asserted right of exemption and a consequently
erroneous holding that the property forms assets of the estate

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Syllabus.

196 U. S.

in bankruptcy, to be administered under the direction of the
bankruptcy court, while subject to correction in the mode
appropriate for the correction of errors, Lockwood v Exchange
Bank, 190 U S. 294, does not create a question of jurisdiction
proper to be passed upon by this court by a direct appeal under
the provisions of the act of March 3, 1891. Denver First Natwnal Bank v Klug, 186 U S. 202, 204, and cases cited. It
necessarily results from the foregoing that as the bankruptcy
court determined that the proceeds of the insurance policies
in the hands of the trustee were assets of the estate in bankruptcy and not exempt property of the bankrupt, the jurisdiction existed to proceed to adjudicate the validity of an alleged
equitable lien upon such property Hutchsnson v Otis, 190
U S. 552, 555.
As, therefore, upon the record before us, the jurisdiction of
the court was not in issue within the meaning of the act of
March 3, 1891, the direct appeal to this court was not properly
brought, and the order must be
Appeal dismssed.

WOLFF v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
No. 62. Argued November 11, 1904.-Decided January 3,1905.

An object which subserves the use of streets need not necessarily be considered an obstruction although it may occupy some part of the space of
the street.
The duty, of a city to specially illuminate and guard the place where an
object is depends upon whether such object is an unlawful obstruction.
Under §§ 222 and 233, Rev. Stat., District of Columbia, the Distnct is not prohibited from permitting a stepping-stone on any part of the street because
it is an obstruction per se nor is the District required to specially illuminate
and guard the place where such stepping-stone is located.

