OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

196 U. S.

WETMORE v. MARKOE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
No. 56. Argued November 9, 10, 19(A.-Decided December 19, 194.

A husband owes the duty of supporting his wife and children not because
of contractual relations with the wife but because of the policy of the
law which will enforce the duty if necessary and the bankruptcy act
was not intended to be a means of avoiding this obligation.
Arrears of alimony awarded to a wife against her husband for the support of
herself and their minor children, under a final decree of absolute divorce,
is not a provable debt barred by a discharge in bankruptcy, nor does
the fact that there is no reservation in the decree of the right to alter
or modify it deprive the debt of its character of being for the support of
the bankrupt's wife and children.
The amendment of February 5, 1903, excepting decrees of alimony from
the discharge in bankruptcy was not new legislation creating a presumption that such decrees were not excepted prior thereto, but was merely
declaratory of the true meaning and sense of the statute as originally
enacted.
ON June 12, 1890, an action for divorce and alimony was
begun by Annette B. W Wetmore, wife of the plaintiff in
error, in the Supreme Court of the State of New York, and on
April 1, 1892, at special term, the plaintiff in error was found
guilty of adultery as charged m the complaint, and a divorce
was granted upon that ground to the defendant m error. The
divorce was absolute, and awarded to the wife the custody and
care of the three minor children of the marriage, and also, as
alimony, the sum of $3,000 per .annum so long as she should
live, to be paid in quarterly instalments of $750 each on the
first day of the months of July, October, January and April of
each year. There was also granted to the wife the sum of
$3,000 annually, being $1,000 for the education and maintenance of each of the three minor children, to be paid in quarterly
instalments, until such children should arrive at the age of
twenty-one years respectively Plaintiff in error was also re-

WETMORE r MARKOE.
196 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

quired to give security for the payment of the alimony awarded.
The decree did not reserve any right of subsequent modification
or amendment. On January 13, 1899, there was due to the
wife from the plaintiff in error, for arrears in alimony and
allowance under the decree, the sum of $19,221.60. Upon that
day, upon application to the District Court of the United States
for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, the plaintiff m error
was adjudicated'a bankrupt. The defendant in error made no
proof of her claun for alimony in the bankrupt proceedings.
On June 21, 1900, the plaintiff in error was granted a discharge
from all debts and claims provable under the bankruptcy act.
On December 12, 1901, plaintiff in error sued out a writ in the
Supreme Court of the State of New York for an order enjoinmg and restraining all proceedings on behalf of the defendant
in error for the collection of the arrears of alimony and allowance aforesaid.

This application was denied, upon the ground,

as it appears from the memorandum of the judge who rendered
the decision, that the arrears of alimony were not discharged in
bankruptcy From the order denying the application an appeal was taken by the plaintiff in error to the Appellate Division of the Supreme Court of the State of New York, where
the order below was affirmed. 72 App. Div N. Y 620. The
plaintiff in error thereupon appealed to the Court of Appeals
of the State of New York, and on June 27, 1902, the appeal
was dismissed for want of jurisdiction, without any judgment
of affirmance or reversal upon the merits. 171 N. Y 690. A
writ of error was sued out seeking in this court a reversal of
the judgment of the Supreme Court of the State of New York.
Mr William A. Keener for plaintiff in errorUnder the statutes and decisions of the State of New York,
the claim of the defendant in error for alimony and allowance
was a fixed liability, evidenced by a judgment. The decree
of divorce of April 1, 1892, containing no provision by virtue
of which it may be modified, altered or amended, became an
absolute obligation, beyond the power or control of either the

OCTO3ER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

courts or the legislature to modify

196 U. S.

Walker v Walker, 155

N. Y 77, L'nnngston v Lsvingston, 173 N. Y 377, § 1759 N. Y.
Code of Civ Pro., as it read in 1892.
So absolute is it that it is not affected by the marriage of
the wife. Shepherd v Shepherd, 1 Hun, 240; S. C., affirmed 58
N. Y 644. It is an obligation collectible by the levying of an
execution. N. Y Code Civ Pro. § 1240; Miller v Miller,
7 Hun, 208. She is regarded as a judgment creditor. Wetmore v Wetmore, 149 N. Y 520.
The arrears of alimony which accrued prior to January 13,
1899, were a provable debt within the provisions of the United
States Bankruptcy Act, and were released by the discharge in
bankruptcy granted to the plaintiff in error. Re Houston, 94
Fed. Rep. 119, Re Van Orden, 96 Fed. Rep. 86.
The cases on brief of defendant in error can be distinguished.
The remedy of plaintiff in error was properly sought in the
court in which the judgment was entered. Moore v Upton,
50 N. Y 593, Palmer v Hussey, 119 U S. 96.
The Appellate Division of the Supreme Court is the highest
court of the State of New York in which a decision could be
had by the plaintiff in error. Bacon v Texas, 163 U. S. 207,
Mo. Kan. & Tex. v Elliott, 184 U. S. 530.
The alimony awarded to the defendant in error was not
given as compensation for a willful and malicious injury to her
An action for divorce is not an action of
person or property
tort. Mangles v Mangles, 6 Mo. App. 481, Erkenbrach v
Erkenbrach, 96 N. Y 456, 463, Matter of Ensign, 103 N. Y 289.
Mr Flamen B Candler, with whom Mr William Jay and
Mr Robert W Candler were on the brief, for defendant in errorNeither the claim for alimony nor for maintenance and
education of the infant children was a debt provable in bankruptcy, and the discharge in bankruptcy did not relieve the
plaintiff in error from payment of arrears of alimony or arrears
for the maintenance and education of the infant children.
Audubon v Shujeldt, 181 U S. 575, Dunbar v Dunbar, 190

WETMORE v 31ARKOE.
196 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

U. S. 340; In re Nowell, 99 Fed. Rep. 931, In re Shepard, 97
Fed. Rep. 187, In re Anderson, 97 Fed. Rep. 321, Turner v
Turner, 108 Fed. Rep. 785, In re Lachemeyer, 1 Nat. Bk. Rep.
270; In re Garrett, 11 Bk. Rep. 493, Matter of Smith, 3 Am. Bk.

Rep. 68, Massner v Massner, 62 App. Div N Y 286, Young
v Young, 35 Misc. N. Y 335, Buckle v Grell, 65 N. Y Supp.
522, Bishop on Marriage and Divorce, § 837, Tinker v Colwell,
193 U S. 473.
Under the law of New York alimony provided for by a decree of divorce is not regarded as a debt, or a fixed liability
within the meaning of the Bankrupt Act, but as a legal determination of the duty owing from husband to wife. Romaine
v Chauncey, 129 N. Y 566, Wetmore v Wetmore, 79 Hun
(N. Y.), 268, S. C., affirmed 149 N. Y 520; Maisner v Massner, 62 App. Div N. Y 286, Code Civ Pro. N. Y §§ 1759,
1772, 1773, 2286.

If the effect of a decree containing provisions for alimony
and for support and maintenance of children is to be regarded
as making the husband and father debtor to the wife and
children for such amounts, even then the discharge in bankruptcy would not release the plaintiff in error from such obligation. Colwell v Tinker, 169 N. Y 531, 2 Bishop on Mar.
& Div 220; 15 Am. & Eng. Ency of Law, 2d ed., 857
MR. JUsTIcE DAY, after making the foregoing statement,

delivered the opinion of the court.
It is conceded in argument by counsel for the plaintiff in
error that this case would be within the decision of this court
in Audubon v Shufeldt, 181 U S. 575, if the judgment for
alimony had been rendered in a court having control over the
decree with power to amend or alter the same. It is insisted,
however, that there being in this case no reservation of the
right to change or modify the decree, it has become an absolute judgment beyond the power of the court to alter or amend,
and is therefore discharged by the bankruptcy proceedings.

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opimon of the Court.

196 U. S.

Walker v Walker, 155 N. Y 77, Lwvingtson v Livngston, 173
N. Y 377 It may be admitted to be the effect of these decisions of the New York Court of Appeals that, in the absence of
any reservation of the right to modify or amend, the judgment
for alimony becomes absolute. The question presented for
decision, in view of this state of the law, is, has the decree
become a fixed liability evidenced by a judgment and therefore provable against the estate of the bankrupt, within the
protection of the discharge m bankruptcy? Section 63 of the
act of 1898 provides:
"SEc. 63. Debts which may be proved.-

"a. Debts of the bankrupt may be proved and allowed
against his estate which are (1) a fixed liability, as evidenced
by a judgment or an instrument m writing, absolutely owing
at the time of the filing of the petition against him, whether
then payable or not, with any interest thereon which would
have been recoverable at that date or with a rebate of interest
upon such as were not then payable and did not bear interest."
It is not contended that this section includes instalments
of alimony becoming due after the adjudication, but the contention is that prior instalments have become an existing
liability evidenced by the judgment and therefore a provable
debt. While this section enumerates under separate paragraphs the kind and character of claims to be proved and
allowed in bankruptcy, the classification is only a means of
describing "debts" of the bankrupt which may be proved and
allowed against his estate.
The precise question, therefore, is, is such a judgment as the
one here under consideration a debt within the meaning of the
act? The mere fact that a judgment has been rendered does
not prevent the court from looking into the proceedings with
a view of determining the nature of the liability which has been
reduced to judgment. Boynton v Ball, 121 U S. 457, 466.
The question presented is not altogether new in this court.
In the case of Audubon v Shufeldt, supra, Mr. Justice Gray,
delivering the opinion of the court, said.

WETMORE rT MARKOE.
196 U. S.

Opimon of the Court.

"Alimony does not arise from any business transaction, but
from the relation of marriage. It is not founded on contract,
express or implied, but on the natural and legal duty of the
husband to support the wife. The general obligation.to support is made specific by the decree of the court of appropriate
jurisdiction. Generally speaking, alimony may be altered by
the court at any time, as the circumstances of the parties may
require. The decree of a court of one State, indeed, for the
present payment of a definite sum of money as alimony, is a
record which is entitled to full faith and credit in another State,
and may, therefore, be there enforced by suit. Barber v
Barber, (1858) 21 How 382, Lynde v Lynde, (1901) 181 U S.
183. But its*obligation in that respect does not affect its
nature. In other respects, alimony cannot ordinarily be enforced by action at law, but only by application to the court
which granted it, and subject to the discretion of that court.
Permanen~t alimony is regarded rather as a portion of the husband's estate to which the wife is equitably entitled, than as
strictly a debt, alimony from time to time may be regarded as
a portion of his current income or earnings; and the considerations which affect either can be better weighed by the court
having jurisdiction over the relation of husband and wife,
than by a court of a different jurisdiction."
In the same opinion Mr. Justice Gray quoted from Barclay
v Barclay, 184 Illinois, 375, in which case it was adjudged that
alimony could not be regarded as a debt owing from husband
to wife, which might be discharged by an order in bankruptcy,
whether the alimony accrued before or after the proceedings
m bankruptcy"The liability to pay alimony is not founded upon a contract, but is a penalty imposed for a failure to perform a duty
It is not to be enforced by an action at law in the State where
the decree is entered, but is to be enforced by such proceedings
as the chancellor may determine and adopt for its enforcement.
As heretofore shown, it may be enforced by imprisonment for
contempt, without violating the constitutional provision pro-

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

196 U. S.

hibiting imprisonment for debt. The decree for alimony may
be changed from time to time by the chancellor, and there may
be such circumstances as would authorize the chancellor to
even change the amount to be paid by the husband, where he
is in arrears in payments required under the decree. Hence
such alimony cannot be regarded as a debt owing from the
husband to the wife, and not being so, cannot be discharged
by an order of the bankruptcy court."
It is true that m the cases referred to the decrees were rendered in courts having continuing control over them, with
power to alter or amend them upon application, but this fact
does not change the essential character of the liability nor
determine whether a claim for alimony isin its nature contractual so as to make it a debt. The court having power to
look behind the judgment, to determine the nature and extent
of the liability, the obligation enforced is still of the same
character notwithstanding the judgment. We think the reasoning of the Audubon case recognizes the doctrine that a
decree awarding alimony to the wife or children, or both, is
not a debt which has been put in the form of a judgment, but
is rather a legal means of enforcing the obligation of the husband and father to support and maintain his wife and children.
He owes this duty, not because of any contractual obligation
or as a debt due from him to the wife, but because of the policy
of the law which imposes the obligation upon the husband.
The law interferes when the husband neglects or refuses to
discharge this duty and enforces it against him by means of
legal proceedings.
It is true that in the State of New York at the time this
decree was rendered there was no power to modify or alter the
decree for alimony and allowance in the absence of special
reservation. But this does not change the grounds upon which
the courts of the State proceeded in awarding the alimony and
allowances. In the case of Romane v Chauncey, 129 N. Y
566, it was held that alimony was awarded, not m the payment
of a debt, but in the performance of the general duty of the

WtTM1ORE 7" AIARKOE.
193 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

husband to support the wife. This case was quoted with
approval by A-fr. Justice Gray in Audubon v Shufeldt, supra.
In Walker v Walker, 155 N. Y 77, and Lunngston v Lsvzngston, 173 N. Y 377, the effect of the holdings is that a judgment
for alimony, in the absence of reservation, is a fixed and unalterable determination of the amount to be contributed to
the wife's support after the decree, and is beyond the power
of the court to change even under the authority of subsequent
legislation. These cases do not modify the grounds upon
which alimony is awarded, and recognize that an alimony
decree is a provision for the support of the wife, settled and
determined by the judgment of the court.
In the case of Dunbar v Dunbar, decided by this court at
the October term, 1902, 190 U S. 340, it was held that a contract made after divorce between husband and wife, by which
the former agreed to pay the latter a certain sum of money
annually for her support during her life, or so long as she remained unmarried, and also to pay a certain sum of money to
her annually for the support of the minor children of the marriage, whose custody was awarded to the mother, was not discharged by a subsequent proceeding and discharge in bankruptcy It was further held that the sum agreed to be paid
for the support of the minor children was but a recognition of
the liability of the father for their support, and that the fact
that the annual installments were made payable to the wife
made no difference in the character of the obligation. Of this
feature of the contract the court, speaking by Mr. Justice Peckham, said.
"In relation to that part of the husband's contract to pay
for the support of his minor children until they respectively
became of age, we also think that it was not of a nature to
be proved in bankruptcy At common law, a father is bound
to support his legitimate children, and the obligation continues during their minority We may assume this obligation to
exist in all the States. In this case the decree of the court
provided that the children should remain in the custody of

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

196 U. S.

the wife, and the contract to contribute a certain sum yearly
for the support of each child during his minority was simply
a contract to do that which the law obliged him to do, that is,
to support his minor children. The contract was a recognition of such liability on his part. We think it was not the intention of Congress, in passing a bankruptcy act, to provide
for the release of the father from his obligation to support his
children by his discharge in bankruptcy, and-if not, then we
see no reason why his contract to do that which the law obliged
him to do should be discharged in that way As his discharge
would not in any event terminate his obligation to support
his children during their minority, we see no reason why his
written contract acknowledging such obligation and agreeing
to pay a certain sum (which may be presumed to have been a
reasonable one) in fulfillment thereof should be discharged. It
is true his promise is to pay to the mother, but on this branch
of the contract it is for the purpose of supporting his two minor
children, and he simply makes her his agent for that purpose."
We think this language is equally applicable to the present
case in that aspect of the decree which provides for the support
of the minor children. The obligation continues after the discharge in bankruptcy as well as before, and is no more than the
duty devolved by the law upon the husband to support his
children, and is not a debt in any just sense.
It is urged that the amendment of the law made by the act
of February 5, 1903, excepting from the operation of a discharge
in bankruptcy a decree for alimony due or to become due, or
for the maintenance and support of the wife and minor children, is a legislative recognition of the fact that, prior to the
passage of the amendment, judgments for alimony would be
discharged. In Dunbarv Dunbar, 190 U S. 340, cited supra,
it was said that this amendment, while it did not apply to
prior cases, may be referred to for the purpose of showing the
legislative trend in the direction of not discharging an obligation of the bankrupt for the support and maintenance of wife
and children. The amendment may also have been passed

WETMORE v. M ARKOE.
196 U. S.

Opmion of the Court.

with a view to settling the law upon this subject and to put at
rest the controversies which had arisen from the conflicting
decisions of the courts, both State and Federal, upon this
question. Indeed, in view of the construction of the act in
this court in Audubon v Shujeldt, supra, it may be said to be
merely declaratory of the true meaning and sense of the statute. United States v Freeman, 3 How 556, Bailey v Clark, 21
Wall. 284, 288, Cope v Cope, 137 U S. 682, 688. The bankruptcy law should receive such an interpretation as will effectuate its beneficent purposes and not make it an instrument to
deprive dependent wife and children of the support and maintenance due them from the husband and father, which it has
ever been the purpose of the law to enforce. Systems of bankruptcy are designed to relieve the honest debtor from the
weight of indebtedness which has become oppressive and to
permit him to have a fresh start in business or commercial life,
freed from the obligation and responsibilities which may have
resulted from business misfortunes. Unless positively required by direct enactment the courts should not presume a
design upon the part of Congress m relieving the unfortunate
debtor to make the law a means of avoiding enforcement of
the obligation, moral and legal, devolved upon the husband
to support his wife and to maintain and educate his children.
While it is true in this case the obligation has become fixed by
an unalterable decree, so far as the amount to be contributed
by the husband for the support is concerned, looking beneath
the judgment for the foundation upon which it rests we find
it was not decreed for any debt of the bankrupt, but was only
a means designed by the law for carrying into effect and making available to the wife and children the right which the law
gives them as against the husband and father.
We find no error in the judgment of the Supreme Court of
the State of New York, and the same is
Affirmed.

