ERVIEN v. UNITED STATES.
Argument for Appellant.

ERVIEN, COMMISSIONER OF PUBLIC LANDS OF
THE STATE OF NEW MEXICO, v. UNITED
STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 72.

Submitted November 11, 1919.-Decided December 8, 1919.

The Enabling Act of June 20, 1910, § 10, c. 310, 36 Stat. 557, provides that the public lands granted and confirmed to the State of
New Mexico, their natural products and money proceeds, shall be
held in trust for the several objects for which the lands were granted
or confirmed, and that any disposition of such lands, money, etc.,
for other objects shall be deemed a breach of trust; and the Attorney
General of the United States is required to prosecute in the name of
the United States proceedings necessary to enforce the provisions
of the act relative, to the application and disposition of the said
lands, the products thereof, and the funds derived therefrom. In
such a suit, held, that the use of such funds for advertising the resources and advantages of the State generally would be a breach of
the trust and that the state land commissioner should be enjoined
from so using them under authority of an act of the state legislature.
P. 47.
246 Fed. Rep. 277, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. A. B. Renehan and Mr. Carl H. Gilbert for appellant:
The District Court was without jurisdiction. The
State of New Mexico was the real party in interest, and
the suit could only have been maintained as an original
proceeding in this court. Jud. Code, § 238; Louisiana v.
Jumel, 107 U. S. 711, 727; Smith v. Reeves, 178 U. S. 436,
439; In re Ayers, 123 U. S. 443, 502; New York Guaranty
Co. v. Steele, 134 U. S. 230, 232; Governor of Georgia v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Argument for Appellant.

251 U. S.

Madrazo, 1 Pet. 110; Cunningham v. Macon.& Brunswick
R. R. Co., 109 U. S. 446; Antoni v. Greenhow, 107 U. S.
769; Minnesota v. Hitchcock, 185 U. S. 373.
The appellant, as land commissioner, did not threaten
to expend the full three per cent. of the income, but only
so much of it as should seem expedient and desirable,
in advertising the resources and advantages of the State
generally, and particularly to homestead seekers and investors. This would not constitute a breach of the trust,
but only a, legitimate expense in the administration of
the trust estate, resulting in an increased demand for the
lands, which would increase rather than diminish the
proceeds to be distributed to the beneficiaries. No. provision was made in the trust agreement for the payment
of expenses incident to proper administration. The proposed expenditure is not unreasonable and the right to
make it is implied. Perry on Trusts, § 910; Trustees v.
Greenough, 105 U. S. 527; Meddaugh v. Wilson, 151 U. S.
333; Worrall v. Harford, 8 Vesey, 8; Attorney General v.
Mayor of Norwich, 2 M. & C. 406, 424; Rex v. Inhabitants
of Essex, 4 Term Rep. 591; Rex v. Commissionersof Sewers,
1 B. & Ad. 232; Crump v. Baker, 18 Vesey, 285; Hill on
Trustees, c. 5, p. 570.
The advertisement required by § 10 of the Enabling
Act has only to do with the manner of conducting a sale
or lease. This must be by public auction, of which there
shall be at least the published notice required. There is
nothing to prohibit a greater notoriety in exposition of the
advantages of the lands.
. The act looks to the production of funds for the particular objects stated, but it has in mind also the aggrandizement and enrichment of the new State, whose people
are the real beneficiaries; and this enrichment and aggrandizement must come through homeseekers, settlers
and investors. To attract these was the particular purpose of the state statute. The general advertisement

ERVIEN v. UNITED STATES.
41.

Argument for the United States.

of the State was purely incidental; and both sorts of
publicity tended to the same end-more competition for
the lands.
It is the duty of a trustee in selling to sell under the
best possible conditions. Dounes v. Grazebrook, 3 Mer.
208; Wilkins v. Fry, 1 Mer. 268; 2 Rose, 375; Ord v.
Noel, 5 Madd. 440; Mortlock v. Buller, 10 Vesey, 309.
Trustees should proceed according to good business.
Phelps v. Harris, 101 U. S. 370, 383; 2 Perry on Trusts,
§ 770.
Administration of the trust should not be interfered
with by injunction unless a gross abuse of discretion be
shown. Nichols v. Eaton, 91 U. S. 716; Colton v. Colton,
127 U. S. 300.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Nebeker and Mr. Leslie
C. Garnett for the United States:
The bill in this case is framed upon the theory that the
act of the New Mexico legislature is in contravention of
§§ 9 and 10, Art. 21, of the constitution of New Mexico,
by which the grant and confirmation of the lands, upon
the conditions and limitations prescribed in the Enabling
Act, were accepted by the State, and also in conflict with
the terms of the Enabling *Act,and that the defendant as
commissioner of public lands of New Mexico, a public
officer of the State charged with the enforcement of its
laws, is about to proceed wrongfully and in breach of the
trust declared in the Enabling Act and in violation of ihe
laws and rights of the United States. Such a suit cannot
be regarded as one against the State. Ex parte Young,
209 U. S. 123; Truax v. Raich, 239 U. S. 33, 37; Looney v.
Crane Co., 245 U. S. 178, 191; Cavanaugh v. Looney, 248
U. S. 453, 456.
In the Enabling Act Congress created definite, express,
and independent trusts. Each specified quantity of land
granted or confirmed was to be devoted to a particular

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Argument for the United States.

251 U. S.

object, and applying the proceeds from any particular
land to any other object than that specified was expressly
inhibited as a breach of trust. The Court of Appeals very
aptly points out that the granted and confirmed lands
aggregate only one twenty-sixth of the area of the State.
Manifestly, the remaining twenty-five twenty-sixths of
the State and all other public and private property therein
are interested in the benefits to be derived from giving
publicity to its resources and advantages. It is nowhere
shown that any other provision of state law is made to
give publicity to the resources and advantages of New
Mexico, but the funds derived from these trust lands are
made to bear the entire expense of any such publicity for
the whole State as the commissioner of public lands of
the State may determine is advantageous. This is so
palpably a breach of trust as not to require argument.
If these funds can be at all diverted by the state legislature from the objects to which Congress devoted them,
there is hardly any limit to which the legislature can not
go in order to advertise the State's resources. Congress
expressly provided for the necessary advertisement for
the sales and leases of the lands, and for the sales of
timber thereon, in § 10 of thi Enabling Act. This express provision for advertising the sale of these lands
negatives the idea of the necessity for any other advertisement.
The act of the state legislature in providing for the
diversion of these trust moneys from the fund corresponding to the grant under which the particular land producing
such moneys was conveyed or confirmed, and covering
them into the general treasury of the State to be expended
for the general expenses of the state government, and not
investing them in "safe interest-bearing securities," is
plainly in conflict with the Enabling Act, constitutes a
breach of trust, and is void.

ERVIEN v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

41.

MR. JUSTICE McKENNA delivered the opinion of the

court.
Suit to enjoin the expenditure by appellant, Commissioner of Public Lands of the State of New Mexico, of
any of the funds derived from the sale and lease of lands
granted and confirmed to the State by the act admitting
her into the Union. The right to sell or lease is asserted
under a certain act of New Mexico entitled "An Act concerning the Publicity and Promotion of Public Resources
and Welfare." [Laws 1915, c. 60.]
The Enabling Act was passed June 20, 1910, [c. 310, 36
Stat. 557] and on August 21, 1911, [37 Stat. 39] by a
joint resolution of the Senate and House of Representatives New Mexico and Arizona were admitted into the
Union upon an equal footing with the original States.
By the Enabling Act certain grants of public lands were
made to New Mexico for purposes of which there was a
specific enumeration.
It is provided by § 10 of the act that the lands granted
and transferred thereby "shall be by the said State held
in trust, to be disposed of in whole or in part only in
manner as herein provided and for the several objects
specified in the respective granting and confirmatory
provisions, and that the natural products and money
proceeds of any of said lands shall be subject to the same
trusts as the lands producing the same."
And it is further provided that the "disposition of any
of said lands, or of any money or thing of value directly
or indirectly derived therefrom, for any object other than
that for which such particular lands, or the lands from
which such money or thing of value shall have been derived, were granted or confirmed, or in any manner
contrary to the provisions of this Act, shall be deemed
a breach of trust."
It is made the duty of the Attorney General of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.

Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

United States to prosecute in the name of the United
States such proceedings at law or in equity as may be
necessary to enforce the provisions of the act "relative
to the application and disposition of the said lands and
the products thereof and the funds derived therefrom."
The constitutional convention was required to provide,
by an ordinance irrevocable without the consent of
the United States and the people of the State, that the
State and its people consent to the provisions of the act,
and the constitution of the State did so provide.
The legislature of the State on March 8, 1915, passed,
over the Governor's veto, an act entitled as we have
designated, the first section of which is as follows:
"Section 1. It shall be unlawful for the Commissioner
of Public Lands to expend for making known the resources
and advantages of this State generally and particularly
to homeseekers and investors, more than three cents on
the dollar of the annual income of his office from sales
and leases of lands, but, up to such limit of money annually, he may give or cause to be given publicity to such
resources andadvantages, and do or cause to be done all
incidental work, in his judgment advisable to be done."
The Commissioner receives from sales and leases of
the lands granted a large income annually, the income for
the year ending December 31, 1914, being approximately
$741,000, and he threatens to expend three cents on the
dollar of the annual income derived from sales and leases
to give publicity to the resources and advantages of the
State generally in conformity with the act of the legislature of March 8, 1915, and, unless restrained, will do so.
The answer, though in form a denial of some of the
averments of the bill and an admission of others, is really
an objection to its sufficiency to authorize the relief prayed,
and the ground of objection is that the bill taken as a
whole, "is no more than an attempt to interfere with the
due administration of a trust estate by the trustee, the

ERVIEN v. UNITED STATES.
41.

Opinion of the Court.

State of New Mexico, which requires the payment of
necessary and proper expenses out of the income or proceeds of the trust property, the grantor of the trust, the
Government of the United States, having made no other
provision for the payment of such necessary and proper
costs and expenses; and defendant avers that the expenditure of a small portion of such income and proceeds for
the purpose of advertising the resources of the State
and the value of its lands, with the hope of thereby increasing the demand for the purchase and leasing of such
lands and in the enhancing of the prospective prices to be
derived therefrom, is a proper and necessary expense of
the administration of said trust estate."
A temporary injunction was applied for and denied
and subsequently the case by stipulation was submitted
upon bill and answer, upon which it was ordered that the
bill be and it was dismissed.
The decree was reversed by the Circuit Court of Appeals
and the case remanded with direction to enter a decree
for the United States. This appeal was then prosecuted.
The case is not in broad range and does not demand
much discussion. There is in the Enabling Act a specific
enumeration of the purposes for which the lands were
granted and the enumeration is necessarily exclusive of
any other purpose. And to make assurance doubly
sure it was provided that the natural products and money
proceeds of such lands should be subject to the same
trusts as the lands producing the same. To preclude any
license of construction or liberties of inference it was
declared that the disposition of any of the lands or of the
money or anything of value directly or indirectly derived
therefrom for any object other than the enumerated ones
should "be deemed a breach of trust."
The dedication, we repeat, was special and exact, precluding any supplementary or aiding sense, in prophetic
realization, it may be, that the State might be tempted

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Syllabus.

251 U. S.

to do that which it has done, lured from patient methods
to speculative advertising in the hope of a speedy prosperity.
It must be admitted there was enticement to it and a
prospect of realization, and such was the view of the
District Court. The court was of opinion that a private
proprietor of the lands would without hesitation use their
revenues to advertise their advantage and that that which
was a wise administration of the property in him could
not reach the odious dereliction of a breach of trust in
the State.
The phrase, however, means no more in the present
case than that the United States, being the grantor of
the lands, could impose conditions upon their use, and
have the right to exact the performance of the conditions.
We need not extend the argument or multiply considerations. The careful opinion of the Circuit Court of Appeals has made it unnecessary. We approve, therefore,
its conclusion and affirm its decree.
Affirmed.

LIVERPOOL, BRAZIL & RIVER PLATE STEAM
NAVIGATION COMPANY v. BROOKLYN EASTERN DISTRICT TERMINAL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 81.

Argued November 14, 1919.-,Dccided December 8, 1919.

A steam tug, propelling, lashed to its sides, other vessels of the same
owner, in pursuit of the owner's business, brought one of them-a
float carrying the cargo-in collision with libelant's vessel. Held,
that under Rev. Stats., §§ 4283-4285, the value of the tug, and not
the value of the flotilla, was the limit of their owner's liability. P. 51.
250 Fed. Rep. 1021, affirmed.

