* ST. LOUIS, I. MT. & SO. RY. CO. v. WILLIAMS.

63

Opinion of the Court.

ST. LOUIS, IRON MOUNTAIN & SOUTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY v. WILLIAMS ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS.
No. 66.

Argued November 11, 1919.-Decided December 8,1919.

A railroad company in defense of an action for penalties imposed for
exceeding passenger rates .prescribed by a state law has no ground
to claim that the penalties are unconstitutional in that, by their
severity, they prevent resort to the courts to test the adequacy
of the rates, when it did not avail itself of its opportunity to have
such a test in a suit against the state railroad commission pending
which the penalty provision could have been suspended by injunction, and when it did not question the prescribed rates in the action
to collect the penalties. P. 65.
A provision for the collection of such penalties in an action by the
aggrieved passenger and for his use irrespective of his private daamages, is consistent with due process of law. P. 66.
In determining whether such penalties are so severe, oppressive, and
unreasonable as to violate the due process clause, they should be
tested not by comparison with the overcharges in particular instances but by the public interest in having the rates adhered to uniformly and the relation of the penalties to that object. Id.
131 Arkansas, 442, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Robert E. Wiley, with whom Mr. Edward J. White
and Mr. Edgar B. Kinsworthy were on the brief, for
plaintiff in error.
No appearance for defendants in error.

MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER delivered the opinion of

the court.
By a statute of Arkansas, regulating rates for the transportation of passengers between points within the State,

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

any railroad company that demands or collects a greater
compensation than the statute prescribes is subjected
"for every such offense" to a penalty of "not less than
fifty dollars, nor more than three hundred dollars and
costs of suit, including a reasonable attorney's fee," and
the aggrieved passenger is given a right to recover the
same in a civil action. Act April 4, 1887, Laws 1887, p.
227; Kirby's Digest, 1904, ยง 6620; Act March 4, 1915,
Laws 1915, p. 365; Kirby & Castle's Digest, 1916, ยง 8094.
In June, 1915, a company operating a line of railroad
within the State demanded and collected sixty-six cents
more than the prescribed fare from each of two sisters
carried over part of its line when returning to their home
from a school commencement elsewhere in the State; and
in suits separately brought for the purpose, and afterwards
consolidated, these passengers obtained judgments against
the company for the overcharge, a penalty of seventy-five
dollars and costs of suit, including an attorney's fee of
twenty-five dollars. The company appealed, asserting
that the provision for the penalty was repugnant to the
due process of law clause of the Fourteenth Amendment;
but the Supreme Court of the State sustained the provision and affirmed the judgments. 131 Arkansas, 442.
To obtain a review of that decision the company prosecutes this writ of error.
The grounds upon which the provision is said to contravene due process of law are, first, that the penalty is "so
severe as to deprive the carrier of the right to resort to the
courts to test the validity" of the rate prescribed, and,
second, that the penalty is "arbitrary and unreasonable,
and not proportionate to the actual damages sustained."
It is true that the imposition of severe penalties as a
means of enforcing a rate, such as was prescribed in this
instance, is in contravention of due process of law, where
no adequate opportunity is afforded the carrier for safely
testing, in an appropriate judicial proceeding, the validity

ST. LOUIS, I. MT. & SO. RY. CO. v. WILLIAMS.
63.

65

Opinion of the Court.

of the rate-tbat is, whether it is confiscatory or otherwise-before any liability for the penalties attaches. The
reasons why this is so are set forth fully and plainly in
several recent decisions and need not be repeated now.
Ex parte Young, 209 U. S. 123, 147; Willcox v. Consolidated
Gas Co., 212 U. S. 19, 53; Missouri Pacific Ry. Co. v.
Nebraska, 217 U. S. 196, 207-208; Missouri Pacific Ry. Co.
v. Tucker, 230 U. S. 340; Wadley Southern Ry. Co. v.
Georgia, 235 U. S. 651, 659, et seq.
And it also is true that where such an opportunity is
afforded and the rate is adjudged valid, or the carrier
fails to avail itself of the opportunity, it then is admissible,
so far as due process of law is concerned, for the State to
enforce adherence to the rate by imposing substantial
penalties for deviations from it. Wadley Southern Ry. Co.
v. Georgia, supra, p. 667, et seq.; Gulf, Colorado & Santa
Fe Ry. Co. v. Texas, 246 U. S. 58, 62.
Here it does not appear that the carrier had not been
afforded an adequate opportunity for safely testing the
validity of the rate, or that its deviation therefrom proceeded from any belief that the rate was invalid. On the
contrary, it is practically conceded-and we judicially
know-that if the carrier really regarded the rate as
confiscatory, the way was open to secure a determination
of that question by a suit in equity against the Railroad
Commission of the State, during the pendency of which
the operation of the penalty provision could have been
suspended by injunction. Wadley Southern Ry. Co. v.
Georgia, supra. See also Allen v. St. Louis, Iron Mountain & Southern Ry. Co., 230 U. S. 553; Rowland v. St.
Louis & San FranciscoR. R. Co., 244 U.S. 106; St. Louis,
Iron Mountain & Southern Ry. Co. v. McKnight, ibid.
368. And the record shows that at the trial the carrier
not only did not raise any question about the correct fare,
but proposed and secured an instruction to the jury
wherein the prescribed rate was recognized as controlling.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

It therefore is plain that the first branch of the company's contention cannot prevail.
The second branch is more strongly urged, and we now
turn to it. The provision assailed is essentially penal,
because primarily intended to punish the carrier for
taking more than the prescribed rate. Railway Co. v.
Gill, 54 Arkansas, 101, 106; St. Louis, Iron Mountain &
Southern Ry. Co. v. Waldrop, 93 Arkansas, 42, 45. True,
the penalty goes to the aggrieved passenger and not the
State, and is to be enforced by a private and not a public
suit. But this is not contrary to due process of law; for,
as is said in Missouri Pacific Ry. Co. v. Humes, 115 U. S.
512, 523, "the power of the State to impose fines and
penalties for a violation of its statutory requirements is
coeval with government; and the mode in which they
shall be enforced, whether at the suit of a private party,
or at the suit, of the public, and what disposition shall be
made of the amounts collected, are merely matters of
legislative discretion." Nor does giving the penalty to the
aggrieved passenger require that it be confined or proportioned to his loss or damages; for, as it is imposed as a
punishment for the violation of a public law, the legislature may adjust its amount to the public wrong rather
than the private injury, just as if it were going to the
State. See Marvin v. Trout, 199 U. S. 212, 225.
The ultimate question is whether a penalty of not less
than fifty dollars and not more than three hundred dollars
for the offense in question can be said to bring the provision prescribing it into conflict with the due process of
law clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
That this clause places a limitation upon the power of
'the States to prescribe penalties for violations of their
laws has been fully recognized, but always with the express
or tacit qualification that the States still possess a wide
latitude of-discretion in the matter and that their enactments transcend the limitation only where the penalty

ST. LOUIS, I. MT. & SO. RY. CO. v. WILLIAMS.
63.

67

Dissent.

prescribed is so severe and oppressive as to be wholly
disproportioned to the offense and obviously unreasonable. Coffey v. Harlan County, 204 U. S. 659, 662; Seaboard Air Line Ry. v. Seegers, 207 U. S. 73, 78; WatersPierce Oil Co. v. Texas, 212 U. S. 86, 111; Collins v.
Johnston, 237 U. S. 502, 510.
Of this penalty and the need for it the Supreme Court
of the State says: "It is commonly known that carriers are
not prone to adhere uniformly to rates lawfully prescribed
and it is necessary that deviation from such rates be discouraged and prohibited by adequate liabilities and
penalties, and we regard, the penalties prescribed as no
more than reasonable and adequate to accomplish the
purpose of the law and remedy the evil intended to be
reached." Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific Ry. Co. v.
Davis, 114 Arkansas, 519, 525.
When the penalty is contrasted with the overcharge
possible in any instance it of course seems large, but, as we
have said, its validity is not to be tested in that way.
When it is considered with due regard for the interests of
the public, the numberless opportunities for committing
the offense, and the need for securing uniform adherence
to established passenger rates, we think it properly cannot
be said to be so severe and oppressive as to be wholly
disproportioned to the offense or obviously unreasonable.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS

dissents.

