CARBON STEEL CO. v. LEWELLYN.
466.

Syllabus.

given, as to be valueless or'worse as a direction to the
jury, I think that the least that can be done, in the interest
of the orderly'administration of justice, is to grant a new
trial and let a new jury, properly instructed, pass upon the
case.
I cannot see, as my associates seem to see, that the disposition of this case involves a great peril either to the
maintenance of law. and order and governmental authority
on the one hand, or to the freedom of the press on the
other. To me it seems simply a case of flagrant mistrial,
likely to result in disgrace and great injustice, probably in
life imprisonment for two old men, because this -court
hesitates to exercise the power, which it undoubtedly
possesses, to correct, in this calmer time, errors of law
which would not have been committed but for the stress
and strain of feeling prevailing in the early months of the
late deplorable war.

CARBON STEEL COMPANY v. LEWELLYN, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE FOR THE
TWENTY-THIRD DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.
No. 535.

Argued January 12, 1920.-Decided March 1, 1920.

The rule of strict construction will not be pressed so far as to reduce a
taxing statute to a practical nullity by permitting easy evasion.
P. 505.
The Munitions Manufacturer's Tax payable under the Act of September 8, 1916, c. 463, ยง 301, 39 Stat. 780, by persons "manufacturing"
shells, etc., and computed as an excise of 12Y2 per cent. upon the net
profits from the sale or disposition of such articles "manufactured"

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

within the United States, applies to the profits derived from sales of
shells under contract to the British Government by one who performed the manufacture in its early stages only and had the subsequent operations performed by subcontractors, furnishing them the
steel so partly manufactured, with some of the other materials, retaining ownership of materials when furnished, and control of the
operations, and owning the shells when completed. 1'.
503.
This liability is not affected by the fact that the subcontractors paid a
similar tax on their profits. P. 506.
258 Fed. Rep. 533, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. H. V. Blaxter, with whom Mr. Frederick DeC.
Faust and Mr. Henry O'Neill were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Frierson for respondent.
MR.

JUSTICE MCKENNA

delivered the opinion of the

court.
Petitioner brought this action against Lewellyn who is
Collector of Internal Revenue for the 23rd District of
Pennsylvania, to recover the sum of $271,062.62 with
interest from December 29, 1917, paid to him, under a
demand made by him, as Collector, for an excise tax
assessed under ยง 301 of Title III of the Act of September 8, 1916, c. 463, 39 Stat. 780, known as Munitions
Manufacturer's Tax.
Petitioner made a verified return under protest, reciting
its belief that the tax should be abated for the following
reasons: (1) Petitioner did not manufacture munitions;
(2) the munitions taxed were manufactured by certain
independent contractors; (3) the profit derived by petitioner was from the sale of the munitions, not from their
manufacture.
The tax was not abated and petitioner paid it under
protest.

CARBON STEEL CO. v. LEWELLYN.
501.

503

Opinion of the Court.

The facts are stipulated. Petitioner, through its president, who went to England, entered into three contracts
with the British Government dated, respectively, January 26, September 29, and October 7, 1915, for the
manufacture and delivery f. a. s. New York, of a certain
number of high explosive shells.
The work to complete the shells consisted of the following operations: (1) Obtaining suitable steel in bar form;
(2) cutting or breaking the bars to proper length; (3) converting the bars or slugs into a hollow shell forging by
means of a hydraulic press; (4) turning the shell upon a
lathe to exact dimensions; (5) closing in one end of the
forging to form the nose of the shell; (6) drilling out the
case of the shell and inserting a base plate; (7) threading
the nose of the shell and inserting the nose bushing and
inserting in the nose bushing a wooden plug to protect the
thread thereof; (8) cutting a groove around the circumference of the shell and inserting therein a copper driving
band and turning the band to required dimensions;
(9) varnishing, greasing and crating the completed shell.
Petitioner was not equipped, nor did it have facilities,
for doing any of the described work except the manufacture of steel suitable for the shells in bar form, and, therefore, to procure the manufacture of the shells it did certain work and entered into numerous contracts in relation
to the various steps in making a completed shell.
These steps are not necessary to give. The question in
the case is not a broad one and all of the details of the
stipulation are not necessary to its decision. The essential elements of fact we have given and whether they bring
petitioner within the Munitions Tax Act we shall proceed
to consider.
The act is as follows: "Sec. 301. (1) That every person
manufacturing . . .
(c) projectiles, shells, or torpedoes of any kind . . .
or (f) any part of any of
...
; shall pay
the articles mentioned in
.(c)

.504

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

for each taxable year, in addition to the income tax imposed by Title I, an excise tax of twelve and one-half per
centum upon the entire net profits actually received or
accrued for said year from the sale or disposition of such
articles manufactured within the United States:
"
The act is explicit in its declaration; perplexity and
controversy come over its application. One must be a
"person manufacturing" to incur the tax, but who is to be
regarded as such person in the sense of the act? or to put
it another way, when is "manufacturing" (the word of the
act) done, and when is "manufactured" (the word of the
act) attained? In elucidation of the words, the specifications enumerate nine operations to produce a shell, that
is a completed shell (except for explosive charge and
detonating device), such as petitioner contracted to deliver to the British Government. And all oji the operations are asserted to be necessary and all must be performed seemingly by the same person in order that he
may be designated as a "person manufacturing." We
put aside for the purpose of testing the contention the
provision of the act making a person manufacLuring "any
part of any of the articles mentioned" subject to "a tax."
The contention reduces the act to a practical nullity on
account of the ease of its evasion. Besides, petitioner
minimizes what it did. It was the contractor for the
delivery of shells, made the profits on them and the
profits necessarily reimbursed all expenditures on account
of the shells. It was such profits that the act was intended
to reach-profits made out of the war and taxed to defray
the expense of the war. Or, as expressed by the Court of
Appeals, Congress "felt that the large abnormal profits
incident to these war contracts created a remunerative
field for temporary taxation." Petitioner, it is true, used
the services of others, but they were services necessary to
the discharge of its obligations and to the acquisition of
the profits of such discharge. And petitioner kept control

CARBON STEEL CO, v. LEWELLYN.
501.

Opinion of the Court.

throughout-never took its hands off, was at pains to
express the fact, and retained its ownership of all of the
materials furnished by it, and the completed shell belonged
to it until delivered to the British Govermnent. And
further, the steel furnished by it was advanced above a
crude state--advanced to slugs. The nicking by an outside company we consider of no consequence, for after
nicking they were re-delivered to petitioner and by it
"broken or separated" into slugs.
And petitioner supplies its respective subcontractors
with other materials-" transit plugs," "fixing screws,"
and "copper tubing." It is, of course, the contention of
petitioner that this was furnishing, not mianufacturing,and
that the literal meaning of words can be insisted on in
iresistance to a taxing statute. We recognize the rule of
construction but it cannot be carried to reduce the statute
to en.pty declarations. And, as we have already said,
petitioner's contention would so reduce it. How universal
must the manufacturing be? Will the purchase of an
elemental part destroy it? And how subsidiary must the
work of the subcontractor be not to relieve the contractor-take from him the character of a "person manufacturing"? And such is the tangle of inquiries we encounter when we undertake to distinguish between what a
contractor to deliver a thing does himself and what he
does through others as subsidiary to his obligation.
It is after all but a question of the kind or degree of
agency-the difference, to use counsel's words, between
"servants and general agents" and "brokers, dealers,
middlemen or factors." And this distinction between the
agents counsel deems important and expresses it another
way as follows: "'Every person manufacturing' means
the person doing the actual work individually, or through
servants or general agents, and that the ownership of the
material worked upon does not alter this meaning of the
word."

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Dissent.

251 U. S.

We are unable to assent to this meaning of the word. It
takes from the act a great deal of utility and makes it miss
its purpose. Of course it did not contemplate that a "person manufacturing" should use his own hands-it contemplated the use of other aid and instrumentalities, machinery, servants, and general agents, availing thereby of
the world's division of labor; but it contemplated also the
world's division of occupations, and, in this comprehensive way, contemplated that all of the world's efficiency
might be availed of, and, when availed of for profits, the
latter could not thereby escape being taxed. And where,
indeed, was the hardship of it? The tax was on profits
and measured by them.
It is, however, alleged, and the stipulation shows, that
the subcontracting companies paid a tax on their profits
and profits were testified to be the difference between
what was paid the subcontracting companies for the work
and their cost in doing it. And it thus appears, it is urged,
that petitioner has been taxed upon the theory that it
manufactured the shells and the contracting companies
"have been taxed for actually performing all the manufacturing necessary to complete the same shells."
But it is a sufficient answer to say that the tax here in
issue is the tax on the profits of the petitioner, not on the
profits of the subcontractors. The question whether such
subcontractors were correctly assessed concerns them and
not the petitioner who is resisting a tax on the profits
actually made by it and none other.
We consider further discussion unnecessary.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE DAY and MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER dissent.

