N. Y., N. H. & H. R. R. v. UNITED STATES.
121.

123

Syllabus.

present controversy. There is nothing in the language
employed, nor is there any circumstance known to us,
which indicates a purpose to make the act applicable
when the cause of action arose before its passage; and we
think it must not be so construed.
The judgment of the court below is reversed and the
cause remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent
with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS
dissent.

and MR. JUSTICE CLARKE

NEW YORK, NEW HAVEN & HARTFORD RAILROAD COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 74. Argued May 2, 1919.-Decided December 8, 1919.
Semble, that under Rev. Stats., ยง 4002, as amended, the Postmaster
General may fix the sums payable to a railroad company for transporting the mails upon the basis of weights taken immediately
before the beginning of the four-year term of the contract, and that
annual weighings are not required. P. 126.
A railroad company which knowingly contracts and receives on this
basis less than it would have received on the basis of annual weighings has no implied contract right to be paid the difference by-the
United States. P. 127.
Prior to the Act of July 28, 1916, e. 261, 39 Stat. 429, a non-land-grant
railroad was not required to carry the mails; and when it voluntarily
accepted and performed the service with knowledge of what the
United States intended to pay, it cannot claim more upon the ground
that its property was taken. Id.
53 Ct. Clms. 222, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Argument for Appellant.

251 U. S.

Mr. Edward G. Buckland and Mr. S. S. Ashbaugh, with
whom Mr. Arthur P. Russell wa; on the briefs, for appellant:
The claimant carried the mails during the period involved with the distinct declaration that it would not
accept the amount of pay offered by the Postmaster
General as full compensation for the services, which
declaration in writing was acknowledged by the Postmaster General, the mails were then delivered for carriage, and the usual pay orders were issued thereon. That
there was no agreement between the claimant and the
Post Office Department as to the compensation for carrying the mails during the two quadrennial periods beginning
July 1, 1909, and July 1, 1913, is clearly shown in the
correspondence between the parties.
The offer of the claimant to perform the service must
not be confused with its refusal to accept the compensation offered. This refusal placed the responsibility on the
Postmaster General; if he delivered the mails for transportation they would be accepted only on the ground that
the compensation was to be fixed by the courts.
When the Postmaster General sends out his distance
circular to a railroad company in operation, calling upon
it to fill out the circular and return it to him preparatory
to carrying the mails, he has demanded performance of a
governmental function, and this cannot be refused, but
the railroad company may protect itself by filing a protest
to the compensation offered and instituting an action in
the proper court. In performing this governmental function in carrying the mails there is no difference between a
land-grant and a non-land-grant railroad. The obligation
rests upon both alike.
Railroads became government agencies when they were
made post roads by Congress, and are performing a
governmental function when required by the Postmaster
General to carry the mails. He may exercise a discretion

N. Y., N. H. & H. R. R. v. UNITED STATES.
123.

125

Argument for Appellant.

as to routes and kinds of service. The powers granted in
ยง 3965 cannot, however, be defeated by a refusal of the
railroad company to perform the service. The Act of
July 28, 1916, 39 Stat. 429, 431, created no new obligations.
It is not following the law to weigh the mails before the
quadrennial period begins, extend the weight into four
years, divide it into four equal parts for the purpose of
payment, and thus get a different and smaller amount
as a basis than would be secured by an annual weighing.
This is not giving- "pay per mile per annum"; it is
simply giving one-quarter of an incorrect quadrennial
amount.
The claimant has not by performance waived any right
to demand pay for the true weight of mail carried each
year. The statute cannot be waived. This point is
covered in the case of the Union PacificR. R. Co. v. United
States, 104 U. S. 666.
From and after January 1, 1913,. the claimant carried
each day an increased amount of mail furnished as parcel
post packages, for which increased compensation can be
recovered. The Parcel Post Law of August 24,1912, took
effect January 1, 1913, and by this means the amount of
mail carried by the claimant was vastly increased. On the
4th of March, 1913, Congress provided that an increase
of pay should be given, not exceeding 5 per cent. per annum. The full amount of this 5 per cent. was not given
the claimant, according to the allegations in the petition,
and this is held to be a violation of the statute in the case
recently decided by the court below. Atchison, Topeka &
Santa Fe Ry. Co. v. United States, 52 Ct. Clms. 338.
The mails on the claimant's lines were weighed in the
fall of 1912, as of October 27th, and this weight taken for
the quadrennial period beginning July 1, 1913. In the
meantime the Parcel Post had been established, taking
effect January 1, 1913, but no new weighing was had, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

this new and additional amount of mail was carried on
the old weights.
Under the rules and regulations of the Post Office
Department, the Postmaster General has required the
claimant to gather and deliver mails at intermediate
stations off from and beyond the right of way and at a
distance not exceeding 80 rods. This is not authorized by
law, and the claimant is entitled to recover the value of
this service.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Brown for the United
States.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the

court.
Appellant sued the United States to recover the difference between amounts received through the Post Office
Department and what it claims should have been paid for
its services in carrying the mails during a series of years,
ending June 30, 1914. The demand is based upon implied
contracts alleged to arise from the following circumstances.
First.-Acceptance and transportation of the mails in
reliance upon ยง 4002, Rev. Stats., as amended. This
directs payment of specified sums per mile per annum according to weights; and the claim is that because the
Post Office Department improperly construed and applied it, appellant received much less than it should have.
Second.-Acceptance and transportation of the mails
under orders and coercion of the Post Office Department,
followed by failure to allow reasonable compensation
therefor. Appellant claims its property was taken for
public use and adequate compensation must be paid.
Concerning the challenged interpretation and application of ยง 4002, Rev. Stats., resulting in payments during
each four-year term upon the basis of weights taken

N. Y., N. H. & H. R. R. v. UNITED STATES.
123.

127

Dissent.

immediately prior to the beginning of the same instead of
annually, it suffices to say that the action taken accords
with prior practice followed for many years; the letter of
the statute permits it; the carrier submitted with full
knowledge; and, impliedly at least, it was sanctioned by
this court in Delaware, Lackawanna & Western R. R. Co.
v. United States, 249 U. S. 385.
We think it must be treated as settled doctrine that
prior to the Act of July 28, 1916, c. 261, 39 Stat. 412,
429,-with the exception of certain roads aided by land
grants-railroads were not required by law to carry the
mails. Eastern R. R. Co. v. United States, 129 U. S. 391,
394; Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe Ry. Co. v. United
States, 225 U. S. 640, 650; Delaware, Lackawanna & Western R. R. Co. v. United States, supra. And as appellant
voluntarily accepted and performed the service with
knowledge of what the United States intended to pay, it
cannot now claim an implied contract for a greater sum.
It may be that any railroad by failing to carry the mails
would incur the hostility of those living along its lines and
as a consequence suffer serious financial losses; but the
fear of such results certainly does not amount to compulsion by the United States and cannot constitute the basis
of a justiciable claim against them for taking property.
The Court of Claims (53 Ct. Clms. 222) dismissed the
petition upon demurrer, and its judgment is
Affirmed.
MR. JusTIcE BRANDEIS dissents.

