OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Counsel for Appellants.

251 U. S.

claring that the property of the railroad company within
the District would be benefited by the construction of the
contemplated road improvement, but, on the contrary, it
makes it apparent that the case is one so fully within the
general rule that the holding of the Circuit Court of
Appeals that the railroad would not be benefited by the
improvement cannot be sustained.
It results that the decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
must be reversed and that of the District Court affirmed.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS dissents.

CITY OF WINCHESTER ET AL. v. WINCHESTER
WATER WORKS COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN

No. 51.

DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.

Argued October 24, 1919.-Decided January 5, 1920.

A city cannot regulate the rates chargeable by a water company unless
authority to do so has been plainly granted by the legislature.
P. 193.
Such authority cannot be implied from powers to grant water companies rights of way in the public streets and grounds and to supervise and control their use. P. 194.
Kentucky Statutes, § 3490 (8), (25), (30), (33), considered. Id.
Affirmed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. J. Smith Hays, with whom Mr. J. Smith Hays, Jr.,
Mr. John M. Stevenson, Mr. James F. Winn and Mr. F. H.
Haggard were on the brief, for appellants.

WINCHESTER v. WINCHESTER WATER WORKS.
192.

193

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Beverley R. Jouett, with whom Mr. James M. Benton
and Mr. Stephen T. Davis were on the brief, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
The Winchester Water Works Company filed its bill in
the United States District Court for the Eastern District
of Kentucky seeking to enjoin the enforcement of an
ordinance establishing maximum rates for water to be
furnished the city for public use and to the people thereof
for private use. By the bill and amended bill it was
charged that the city had no authority to pass or enforce
an ordinance fixing such rates, because (1) no power had
been granted to the city so to do by the legislature of
Kentucky; (2) because the rates established were so low
as to be confiscatory in their character, and, consequently,
the ordinance was violative of rights secured to the company by the Fourteenth Amendment to the Federal Constitution. An answer was filed, and the court decided the
case and made a final decree in favor of the company
upon the ground that under the laws of Kentucky the city
had no authority to pass or enforce an ordinance fixing
rates. The court found it unnecessary to pass upon the
question of the confiscatory character of the rates. The
bill invoked jurisdiction upon a constitutional ground, and
the case was brought here by direct appeal.
It appears that the company had a contract with the
city, which expired in 1916, and thereafter the"ordinance
in controversy was passed. That a city has no power to
regulate rates of this character unless it has legislative
authority so to do is established, and does not seem to be
disputed by the appellants. "Independently of a right to
regulate and control the rates to be charged for public
service reserved in a grant of a franchise or right to use the
city streets, a city or other municipality has no power to
regulate the rates to be charged by water, lighting, or

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.

Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

other public service corporations in the absence of express
or plain legislative authority to do so." 3 Dillon on
Municipal Corporations, 5th ed., § 1325. Nor does such
authority arise from the power to regulate the opening
and use of streets, nor a grant of the general right to control and regulate the right to erect works and lay pipes in
the streets of the city. State v. Missouri & K. Telephone
Co., 189 Missouri, 83; Jacksonville v. Southern Bell Tel.
Co., 57 Florida, 374; Lewisville Natural Gas Co. v. State,
135 Indiana, 49; Mills v. Chicago, 127'Fed. Rep. 731;
State v. Sheboygan, 111 Wisconsin, 23.
Bearing this general principle in mind, we come to
examine the sections of the laws of Kentucky which, it is
insisted, give the authority to fix water rates. The appellants insist that this power is expressly conferred in
subsection 25 of § 3490 of the Kentucky Statutes, which
reads as follows: "The board of council may grant the
right of way over the public streets or public grounds of
the city to any railroad company or street railroad company, on such conditions as to them may seem proper, and
shall have a supervising control over the use of same, and
shall regulate the speed of cars and signals and fare on
street cars; and under like condition and supervision may
grant the right of way that may be necessary to gas companies, water companies, electric light companies; telephone companies, or any like companies; and may compel
any railroad company to- erect and maintain gates at any
or all street crossings, and to prevent railways from blocking or obstructing the streets or public ways of the city,
and to fix penalties for the violation of these provisions:
Provided, etc."
Other subsections claimed to be applicable are given in
*the margin.1
1 Kentucky

Statutes:

"3490. The board of cotincil, in addition to other powers herein
granted, shall have power within the city: . .

WINCHESTER v. WINCHESTER WATER WORKS.
192.

195

Opinion of the Court.

Examining subsection 25, we are unable to discover any
grant of authority to fix the rates for water consumption.
It is therein first provided that the council may grant the
right-of-way over the public streets to any railroad or
street railroad company on such conditions as to the
council may seem proper, and shall have a supervising
control over the use of the same, and the council is given
the right to regulate the speed of cars and signals and fare
on street cars, and under like conditions and supervision,
the council may grant the right-of-way to water companies among others. This language is certainly very
far from that express authority to regulate rates, which is
essential in order to enable municipalities so to do. The
power to grant a right-of-way to water companies is
specifically granted, and this under like conditions and
supervision already provided as to railroad and street
"(8) To provide the city with water, or erect, purchase, or lease
water-works and maintain same, or to make all necessary contracts
with any person or corporation for such purposes; to erect hydrants, cisterns, fire-plugs and pumps in the streets within or beyond the limits of
the city.

.

"(30) The board of council shall have power, by ordinance, to
prescribe the punishment, by fine, not exceeding $100, or imprisonment
not exceeding 60 days, of any person who shall molest, damage or
interfere with any system of water-works laid in said city, or the pipes
and mains, hydrants, or any part thereof, and shall have power to
punish by ordinance and impose the same penalty as for damaging or
molesting any other public property; and may, subject to the rules qf
any water company which may establish such system, select persons
who shall have the right to open, tap or make connection with such
pipes or mains in the streets, alleys, or public ways of said city.
.
"(33) Said city council shall have legislative power to make by-laws
and ordinances for the carrying into effect of all of the powers herein
granted for the government of the city, and to do all things properly
belonging to the police of incorporated cities. Said board of council
may change the boundary line of any ward or wards of any city now
divided into wards, or hereafter divided into wards, under the provision of this act, not less than sixty days previous to any November
election."

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.

Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

railroad companies. This is the full measure of the grant
of authority to deal with water companies. The right to
regulate fares is in the same sentence which grants authority to deal with water companies, and is specifically
limited to fares on street cars.
Nor do we find in other subsections of this section any
provision from which the right to fix the rates of water
companies can be inferentially deduced.
Counsel call to our attention but one case from Kentucky, whose court of last resort is final authority upon
the construction of the statutes, and that is United Fuel &
Gas Co. v. Commonwealth, 159 Kentucky, 34. There the
United Fuel and Gas Company held a franchise from a
city in Kentucky under an ordinance providing that the
grantee of the franchise should furnish for public and
private use for the city and its inhabitants natural and
artificial gas at a reasonable price not exceeding in any
event one dollar per one thousand cubic feet, and that the
grantee in delivering gas should not discriminate against
the consumers in the city. The company proposed to
sell gas to the inhabitants of the city at 20 cents per thousand feet if they would sign a contract for five years,
but it charged persons who did not sign such a contract
25 cents a thousand feet. The city council passed an
ordinance providing that a gas company should not
charge one citizen more than another, and imposed a
fine for violation of the ordinance. The city was of the
fifth class, and was given authority to make "all other
local, police, sanitary and other regulations as do not
The court held that the
conflict with general laws."
act for the government of this city of the fifth class must
be read in connection with the statutes conferring power
on larger cities, and, that thus construed, there was no
grant of authority to the city to impose a fine such as the
one in question in the absence of legislative authority so
to do. The section from Dillon on Municipal Corpora-

WINCHESTER v. WINCHESTER WATER WORKS.
192.

197

Opinion of the Court.

tions, stating that the authority of a municipality to
regulate rates to be charged by public service corporations
is limited to cases in which express or plain legislative
authority has been given was quoted with approval.
Cases from other States in which the principle has been
approved were also cited.
It is true that this case is not precisely in point, but it
contains a recognition by the Court of Appeals of Kentucky of the accepted principle that the right to fix rates
must be granted to municipal corporations by a plain
expression of legislative authority. It is said, however,
that our decision in Owensboro v. Owensboro Waterworks Co., 191 U. S. 358, holds a contrary view. So far as
apposite that case dealt with the power of a city of the
third class to fix rates for water consumers. As to cities
of that class, § 3290 of the Kentucky Statutes specifically
provides authority to provide the city and inhabitants
thereof with water, light, etc., service by contract or by
works of its own, and to make regulations for the management thereof, and to fix and regulate the price to consumers and customers. Dealing with that section, and
the authority conferred upon cities of the third class, this
court said: "The purpose of section 3290 was to provide
the inhabitants of cities of the third class with the services
mentioned-water, light, power, heat and telephone.
They could be provided by. the cities directly or they
could be provided by private persons; but whatever way
provided, the power was given to regulate the management and fix the rates of the services, and this was but the
endowment of a common governmental power."
This language was used in regard to the authority
given in express terms to fix rates. It was said of such
authority that it was but the endowment of a common
governmental power. This is undoubtedly true. But it is
equally certain that the governmental power rests with
the State, and must be conferred upon the municipality

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Syllabus.

251 U. S.

in an unmistakable way. We find nothing in the Owensboro Case which at all conflicts with the construction
which we have given to § 3490, applicable to cities of the
fourth class to which the City of Winchester belongs.
Finding no error in the judgment of the District Court,
the same is
Affirmed.

ST. LOUIS, IRON MOUNTAIN & SOUTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 71.

Argued November 12, 1919.-Decided January 5, 1920.

A railroad company which contracted to carry the mail for a compensation fixed by test weighings made after withdrawing empty
mail bags, as directed by the Act of May 27, 1908, c. 206, 35 Stat.
412, is not injured by such withdrawal although its purpose was
to diminish the pay for mail carriage. P. 205.
Empty mail bags withdrawn from the mails, and which, with other
articles of furniture and equipment, are, under the Act of May 27,
1908, supra, required to be transmitted by freight or express, are
"property of the United States," within the free transportation
provisions of the railroad land-grant Acts of February 9, 1853, c. 59,
§ 4, 10 Stat. 155, and July 28, 1866, c. 300, § 1, 14 Stat. 338. P. 206.
The provision of the land-grant Act of 1853, supra, § 6, requiring
transportation of the mail over claimant's land-aided road at such
price as Congress may by law direct, and that of the Act of July 12,
1876, c. 179, § 13, 19 Stat. 82, fixing the compensation in such cases
at 80 per cent. of that generally allowed, do not embrace, as part of
the mail, empty mail bags which by the Act of May 27, 1908, are
classified with other property of the United States for transportation
by freight or express. Id.
The Act of June 30, 1882, c. 254, 22 Stat. 120, directing payment on a
50 per cent. basis for army transportation' by land-grant railroads, iJ
inapplicable to transportation of empty mail bags. P. 207.
53 Ct. Chns. 45, affirmed.

