OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Syllabus.

251 U. S.

testimony required of the accused, nor unreasonable search
and seizure in violation of his constitutional rights.
Other objections are raised in the elaborate brief filed in
behalf of the plaintiff in error. We do not find it necessary
to discuss them. In view of the gravity of the case they
have been examined and considered with care, and we are
unable to find that any error was committed to the prejudice of the accused.
Alflrmed.

PACIFIC GAS & ELECTRIC COMPANY v. POLICE
COURT OF THE CITY OF SACRAMENTO, STATE
OF CALIFORNIA, ET AL.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF APPEAL, THIRD APPELLATE DISTRICT, OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 31.

Submitted October 9, 1919.-Decided December 8, 1919.

When an intermediate state court assumes jurisdiction and renders
a judgment which the state Supreme Court declines to review for
want of power, the writ of error to review federal questions involved
runs to the judgment of the intermediate court, and the jurisdiction
of that court is not subject to question here. P. 24.
In the absence of any particular contract provision touching the subject, the question whether an ordinance requiring a street railroad
company to sprinkle the street within and near its tracks imposes an
undue burden, in view of its general right to operate the railroad
under its franchise, is a question of police power and does not involve
the contract clause. P. 25.
A city ordinance requiring a street railway company, without cost
to the city, to sprinkle the street occupied by its railroad, between
the rails and for a sufficient distance beyond to lay the dust and
prevent it from rising when ears are in operation, is within the police
power. Id.
Such an ordinance does not violate the equal protection clause in dis-

PACIFIC GAS CO. v. POLICE COURT.
Opinion of the Court.

22.

criminating between street railroad cars and other vehicles on the
same streets. P. 26.
28 Cal. App. 412, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Win. B. Bosley for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Archibald Yell, Mr. Hugh B. Bradford and Mr.
Edward M. Cleary for defendants in error.
MR.CHIEF JUSMCE WHITE delivered the opinion of the

court.
By ordinance the City of Sacramento provides: "every
person, firm, or corporation owning, controlling or operating any street railroad, suburban railroad, or interurban
railroad upon and along any of the streets of the City of
Sacramento shall, without cost to the city during the
months of June, July, August, September and October
of each year, and at such other times as may be necessary
to keep the dust laid, sprinkle with water the surface of
the street, occupied by such railroad, between the rails
and tracks and for a sufficient distance beyond the outermost rails thereof, so as to effectually lay the dust and
prevent the same from arising when the cars are in operation.

)

The Gas Company, plaintiff in error, operated lines of
street railway in Sacramento under franchise granted by
the city. It refused to obey the ordinance and was prosecuted in the city police court and there asserted that the
ordinance was in conflict with the due process and equal
protection of the laws clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States.
From a sentence imposing upon it a money penalty, it
appealed to the Superior Court for the County of Sacramento, and from the judgment of that court confirming

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.

Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

the conviction it prosecuted an appeal to the Supreme
Court of the State, which court refused to review the case
on the ground that it was without jurisdiction. Thereupon the Company, alleging the illegality of the conviction upon various grounds, among others that the ordinance was repugnant to the Fourteenth Amendment,
petitioned the District Court of Appeal for the Third Appellate District for a writ of certiorari requiring the Superior Court to send up the record for review. The petition was demurred to as stating no cause of action and
on the further ground that it disclosed no jurisdiction in
the court to review. Although it expressed doubt on the
subject, the court took jurisdiction, reviewed the conviction, held that the city had power under the state constitution and laws to pass the ordinance and that it was
not repugnant to the Constitution of the United States.
The certiorari was refused. A review of this judgment
was then asked at the hands of the Supreme Court of
the State, but that court again refused to interfere on the
ground of its want of jurisdiction. The writ of error which
is before us was then prosecuted by the Gas Company to
the judgment of the District Court of Appeal refusing to
grant the writ of certiorari.
At the threshold a motion to dismiss requires to be
considered. It is based upon the ground that the court
below had, under the state constitution and laws, no
power to review by certiorari the action of the Superior
Court and therefore that court was the court of last resort
competent to decide the cause. But this disregards the
fact that the District Court of Appeal assumed jurisdiction of the cause and that the Supreme Court of the State'
declined to review its judgment for want of jurisdiction.
As whether, under the circumstances, the District Court
of Appeal rightfully assumed jurisdiction by certiorari
is a question of purely state law which we may not review,
the judgment of that court is the judgment of the state

PACIFIC GAS CO. v. POLICE COURT.
22.

Opinion of the Court.

court of last resort having power to consider the case and
the motion to dismiss is denied.
Besides the due process and equal protection clauses of
the Fourteenth Amendment, the contract clause of the
Constitution of the United States is relied upon in the
assignments. In argument, however, that contention
is based, not upon the impairment by the ordinance of
any particular contract right, but upon the unwarranted
burden which it is asserted would result from enforcing
the ordinance as against the railroad company because of
the general authority which it possessed 'under its franchises to operate its railroad in the streets. But this at
once establishes that the consideration of the contract
clause is negligible and hence that it is only necessary to
pass upon the contentions under the due process and
equal protection clauses. This results, since, if the police
power of the city, to provide by the ordinance for the protection of the health and safety of the people, was unrestrained by any contract provision, the police power necessarily dominated the right of the company under its
franchises to use the streets and subjected that right to the
authority to adopt the ordinances in question.
Further, as the right of the city to adopt such ordinance, so far as the state constitution and laws areconcerned, is concluded by the decision below and as it is
elementary that the due process clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment does not restrain the States in the exercise
of their legitimate police power, it follows that the case
narrows down to a consideration of whether the ordinance
in question was generically embraced by the police power
of the State and, if it was, whether the power was so
abused as to cause its exertion to exceed the limits of the
police power, thus bringing the ordinance under the prohibitions of the due process and equal protection clauses
of the Fourteenth Amendment.
That the regulation made by the ordinance was in-

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

herently within the police power is we think too clear for
anything but statement. We cite in the margin, however,
decided cases dealing with the subject, in some of which
the power here in question when exerted for the same purpose and to the same extent was upheld, and in others of
which, although the manifestations of the exercise of the
power were somewhat different, its existence was accepted as indisputable; and text writers who state the
same view.'
That the power possessed was on the face of the ordinance not unreasonably exerted and therefore that its
exercise was not controlled by the due process clause of
the Fourteenth Amendment is, we are also of opinion,
equally clear. And this is true likewise of the contention
as to the equal protection clause of the Amendment, since
that proposition rests upon the obviously unwarranted
assumption that no basis for classification resulted from
the difference between the operation of the street railway
cars moving on tracks in the streets of the city and the
movement of a different character of vehicles in such
streets.
Affirmed.
Milwaukee v. Milwaukee E. R. & L. Co., 144 Wis. 386; City &
Suburban Ry. Co. v. Mayor of Savannah, 77 Ga. 731; State v. Canal
& C. R. R. Co., 50 La. An. 1189; St. Paul v. St. Paul City Ry. Co., 114
Minn. 250; Newcomb v. Norfolk Western Street Ry. Co., 179 Mass. 449;
Elliott on Railroads, ยง 1082; Dillon on Municipal Corporations, 5th ed.,
ยง 1276; Nellis, Street Railways, ยง 157; McQuillin on Municipal Corporations, p. 3774; Elliott on Roads and Streets, ยง 958.

