POSTAL TEL.-CABLE CO. v. WARREN-GODWIN CO. 27
Opinion of the Court.

POSTAL TELEGRAPH-CABLE COMPANY ,v. WARREN-GODWIN LUMBER COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
MISSISSIPPI.
No. 91.

Argued November 17, 1919.-Decided December 8, 1919.

Under the Act of June 18, 1910, c.309, 36 Stat. 539, 545, a telegraph
company providing one rate for unrepeated interstate messages
and another, higher rate for those repeated, may stipulate for a
reasonable limitation of its responsibility when the lower rate is
paid; and the validity of such contracts is not determirfable by state
laws. P. 30.

116 Mississippi, 660, reversed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Ellis B. Cooper, with whom Mr. J. T. Brown and
Mr. J. N. Flowers were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. William D. Anderson, for respondent, submitted.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
In Primrose v. Western Union Telegraph Co., 154 U. S. 1,
the court passed upon the validity of a contract made by
a telegraph company with the sender of a message by
which, in case the message was missent, the liability of
the company was limited to a refunding of the price paid
for sending it, unless, as a means of guarding against
mistake, the repeating of the message from the office to
which it was directed to the office of origin was secured
by the payment of an additional sum. It was held that
such a contract was not one exempting the company from

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

liability for its negligence,, but was merely a reasonable
condition appropriately adjusting the charge for the service rendered to the duty and responsibility exacted for its
performance. Such a contract was therefore decided to
be valid and the right to recover for error in transmitting
a message which was sent subject to it was accordingly
limited.
In Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Showers, 112 Mississippi, 411, ihe Supreme Court of that State was called
upon to consider the validity of a contract by a telegraph
company limiting its responsibility for missending an
unrepeated message essentially like the contract which was
considered and upheld in the Primrose Case. The court
decided that as the Act of Congress of June 18, 1910,
c. 309, 36 Stat. 539, 545, had operated to exert the power
of Congress over telegraph companies as to their interstate business and contracts, Congress has taken possession of the field and thus excluded state legislation and
hence such a contract was valid and enforcible in accordance with the rule laid down in the Primrose Case.
In holding this, however, the court pointed out that but
for the act of Congress a different rule would apply, as
under the state law such a contract was invalid because it
was a stipulation by a carrier limiting its liability for its
negligence.
In Dickerson v. Western Union Telegraph Co., 114
Mississippi, 115, the validity of a like contract by a telegraph company for the sending of an unrepeated message
once again arose for consideration. In passing upon it the
court declared that the ruling previously made in the
Showers Case, as to the operation of the Act of Congress of
1910, was erroneous. Coming therefore to reconsider that
subject, it was held that the Act of Congress of 1910
had not extended the power of Congress over the rates of
telegraph companies for interstate business and the contracts made by them as to such subject, and hence the

POSTAL TEL.-CABLE CO. v. WARREN-GODWIN CO. 29
27.

Opinion of the Court.

Showers Case, in so far as it held to the contrary, was overruled. Thus removing the contract from the operation of
the national law and bringing it under the state law, the
court held that the contract was void and not susceptible
of being enforced because it was a mere contract exempting the telegraph company from the consequences of its
negligence.
The case before us, involving the extent of the liability
of the Telegraph Company for an unrepeated interstate
message governed by a contract like those considered in
the previous cases, was decided by a state circuit court
after the decision in the Showers Case and before the overruling of that case by the Dickerson Case. Presumably
therefore the court, because of the Showers decision, upheld the validity of the contract and accordingly limited
the recovery. The appeal which took the case to the
court below, however, was there heard after the decision
in the Dickerson Case. In view of that situation the court
below in disposing of the case expressly declared that the
only issue which, was open was the correctness of the ruling in the Dickerson Case, limiting the operation and effect
of the Act of Congress of June 18, 1910. Disposing of
that issue, the ruling in the Dickerson Case was reiterated
and the contract, although it concerned the transmission
of an interstate message, was declared not affected by the
act of Congress and to be solely controlled .by the state law
and to be therefore void. That subject presents then
the only federal question, and indeed the only question in
the case.
For the sake of brevity, we do not stop to review the
cases which perturbed the mind of the court below in the
Dickerson Case as to the correctness of its ruling in the
Showers Case (PennsylvaniaR. R. Co. v. Hughes, 191 U. S.
477; Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Crovo, 220 U. S. 364;
Adams Express Co. v. Croninger, 226 U. S. 491; Western
Union Telegraph Co. v. Brown, 234 U. S. 542), but content

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

ourselves with saying that we are of opinion that the effect
which was given to them was a mistaken one. We come
at once therefore to state briefly the reasons why we conclude that the court below mistakenly limited the Act of
Congress of 1910 and why therefore its judgment was
erroneous.
In the first place, as it is apparent on the face of the Act
of 1910 that it was intended to control telegraph companies by the Act to Regulate Commerce, we think it
clear that the Act of 1910 was designed to and did subject
such companies as to their interstate business to the rule
of equality and uniformity of rates which it was manifestly
the dominant purpose of the Act to Regulate Commerce
to establish, a purpose which would be wholly destroyed
if, as held by the court below, the validity of contracts
made by telegraph companies as to their interstate commerce business continued to be subjected to the control of
divergent and it may be conflicting local laws.
In the second place, as in terms the act empowered
telegraph companies to establish reasonable rates, subject
to the control which the Act to Regulate Commerce exerted, it follows that the power thus given, limited of
course by such control, carried with it the primary authority to provide a rate for unrepeated telegrams and the
right to fix a reasonable limitation of responsibility where
such rate was charged, since, as pointed out in the Primrose Case, the right to contract on such subject was embraced within the grant of the primary rate-making
power.
In the third place, as the act expressly provided that
the telegraph, telephone or cable messages to which it related may be "classified into day, night, repeated, unrepeated, letter, commercial, press, Government, and such
other classes as are just and reasonable, and different
rates may be charged for the different classes of messages,"
it would seem unmistakably to draw under the federal

POSTAL TEL.-CABLE CO. v. WARREN-GODWIN CO. 31
27.

Opinion of the Court.

control the very power which the construction given below
to the act necessarily excluded from such control. Indeed,
the conclusive force of this view is made additionally cogent when it is considered that as pointed out by the Interstate Commerce Commission, (Clay County Produce Co.
v. Western Union Telegraph Co., 44 I. C. C. 670,) from
the very inception of the telegraph business, or at least
for a period of forty years before 1910, the unrepeated
message was one sent under a limited rate and subject to a
limited responsibility of the character of the one here in
contest.
But we need pursue the subject no further, since, if not
technically authoritatively controlled, it is in reason persuasively settled by the decision of the Interstate Commerce Commission in dealing in the case above cited with
the very question here under consideration as the result of
the power conferred by the Act of Congress of 1910; by
the careful opinion of the Circuit Court of Appeals of the
Eighth Circuit dealing with the same subject (Gardner.v.
Western Union Telegraph Co., 231 Fed. Rep. 405); and by
the numerous and conclusive opinions of state courts of
last resort which in considering the Act of 1910 from various points of view reached the conclusion that that act
was an exertion by Congress of its authority to bring
under federal control the interstate business of telegraph
companies and therefore was an occupation of the field by
Congress which excluded state action. Western Union
Tel. Co. v. Bank of Spencer, 53 Oklahoma, 398; Haskell
Implement Co. v. Postal Tel.-Cable Co., 114 Maine, 277;
Western Union Tel. Co. v. Bilisoly, 116 Virginia, 562;
Bailey v. Western Union Tel. Co., 97 Kansas, 619; Durre v.
Western Union Tel. Co., 165 Wisconsin, 190; Western Union
Tel. Co. v. Schade, 137 Tennessee, 214; Meadows v. Postal
Tel. & Cable Co., 173 N. Car. 240; Norrisv. Western Union
Tel. Co., 174 N. Car. 92; Bateman v. Western Union Tel.
Co., 174 N. Car. 97; Western Union Tel. Co. v. Lee, 174

32

OCTOBER TERM, 191,.
Syllabus.

251 U. S.

Kentucky, 210; Western Union Tel. Co. v. Foster, 224
Massachusetts, 365; Western Union Tel. Co. v. Hawkins, 14
Ala. App. 295.
It is indeed true that several state courts of last resort
have expressed conclusions concerning the act of Congress
applied by the court below in this case. But we do not
stop to review or refer to them as we are of opinion that
the error in the reasoning upon which they proceed is
pointed out by what we have said and by the authorities
to which we have just referred.
It follows that the judgment below was erroneous and
it must be reversed and the cause remanded for further
proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
And it is so ordered.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY dissents.

CITY OF LOS ANGELES ET AL. v. LOS ANGELES
GAS & ELECTRIC CORPORATION.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE -SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 50. Argued October 23, 1919.-Decided December 8, 1919.

A distinction is to be drawn between the powers of a city when acting
in its governmental capacity, i. e., the police powers,-and those
which belong to it in its proprietary or quasi-private capacity.
P. 38.
Merely for the sake of establishing a lighting system of its own, a city
has no right to displace or remove without compensation the fixtures
of a lighting company already occupying the streets in virtue of
rights guaranteed by its franchise. P. 37.
Declarations in an ordinance to the effect that speedy establishment
of a municipal lighting system, and therein the removal or relocation
of poles and other fixtures maintained in the streets by the owners
of other lighting systems, are necessary for the public peace, health

