OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Counsel for Parties.

251 U. S.

MERGENTHALER LINOTYPE COMPANY v.
DAVIS ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SPRINGFIELD COURT OF APPEALS OF THE

STATE OF MISSOURI.
No. 192.

Motion to dismiss submitted December 8, 1919.-Decided
January 5, 1920.

The Supreme Court of Missouri, exercising by certiorari its superintending control under the state constitution, quashed a judgment of
affirmance by the Court of Appeals, because inconsistent with a
prior decision .of the Supreme Court, and remanded the cause to the
Court of Appeals for decision. Held, that a second judgment of the
latter court reversing and disposing of the cause was directly reviewable by this court, under Jud. Code, § 237, there being no
opportunity for further review by the Supreme Court of the State.
P. 258.
A federal question first presented to the state court by a petition for
rehearing which was overruled without more, is not a basis for review
in this court. Id.
A claim that a lease contract was made in interstate commerce and was
therefore not subject to state statutes, does not sufficiently challenge
their validity, but asserts at most a "title, right, privilege, or immunity" under the Constitution, which might afford ground for
certiorari, but not for writ of error, under Jud. Code, § 237, as
amended. P. 259.
Writ of error to review 271 Missouri, 475, dismissed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Ernest A. Green and Mr. J. C. Sheppard, for defendants in error, in support of the motion. Mr. A. L.
Sheppard was on the brief.

Mr. Bradford Butler, for plaintiff in error, in *opposition
to the motion.

MERGENTHALER LINOTYPE CO. v. DAVIS. 257
256.

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the

court.
Dismissal of this writ is asked-first, because it does not
run to a final judgment "in the highest court of a State in
which a decision in the suit could be had"; second, because
there was not properly drawn in question below "the
validity of a treaty or statute of, or an authority exercised
under the United States" or "the validity of a statute of,
or an authority exercised under any State, on the ground
of their being repugnant to the Constitution, treaties, or
laws of the United States." Judicial Code, § 237; Act
September 6, 1916i c. 448, 39 Stat. 726; Coon v. Kennedy,
248 U. S.457; Godchaux Co. v. Estopinal, ante, 179.
The trial court, proceeding without jury, gave judgment
for rentals due the Linotype Company under written
lease of a machine, etc. The Springfield Court of Appeals
affirmed that action. Thereupon the Supreme Court took
jurisdiction by writ of certiorari, rendered an opinion,
quashed the judgment of affirmance, and remanded the
cause to the Court of Appeals for decision. 271 Missouri,
475.
Following the Supreme Court's opinion, the Court of
Appeals ordered the judgment of the trial court "reversed, annulled and for naught held and esteemed; that
the said appellants be restored to all they have lost by
reason of the said judgment; that the said appellants
recover of the said respondent costs and charges herein
expended, and have execution therefor." A motion there
for rehearing having been overruled, without more, this
writ of error was sued out.
The assignments of error here challenge the validity of
§§ 3037-3040 and § 3342, Revised Statutes of Missouri,
1909, because in conflict with the Federal Constitution.
This claim was first set up in the Court of Appeals upon
the motion for rehearing.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

The Missouri constitution gives the Supreme Court
"superintending control over the courts of appeals by
mandamus, prohibition and certiorari," and provides that
"the last previous rulings of the Supreme Court on any
question of law or equity shall, in all cases, be controlling
authority in said courts of appeals." In State ex rel. v.
Ellison, 268 Missouri, 225, 238, a proceeding upon certiorari, the court declared: "We can undo what the Court of
Appeals has done; . . . and we can send the record back
to them to be heard anew by them, . . . but in the Kan-.
sas City Court of Appeals alone lies the jurisdiction to hear
and to correctly and finally determine the case to which
the instant proceeding is ancillary." See also, State ex rel.
v. Ellison, 269 Missouri, 151; Schmohl v. Travelers' Ins.
Co., 197 S.W. Rep. 60.
In the present cause, the Supreme Court said: "This is
an original proceeding by certiorari. . . . It isurged
by relator as his grounds for quashal, that the opinion of
the Court of Appeals is in conflict with the case of United
Shoe Machinery Co. v. Ramlose, 210 Missouri, 631.
If this decision be opposed to what we said, or the comclusion which we reached upon similar facts (if the facts
are similar) in the Ramlose case, we ought to quash the
judgment of the Court of Appeals. This is the sole question to be determined."
Under the Missouri practice and circumstances here
disclosed, we think the judgment of the Springfield Court
of Appeals was final within the meaning of § 237, Judicial
Code. No suggestion is made that further review by the
Supreme Court could be had, as matter of discretion or
otherwise.
The only ground mentioned in the assignments of error
upon which this writ could be sustained is conflict between specified sections of the Missouri statutes relating
to transactions by foreign corporations and the Federal
Constitution, But this point came too late, being first

SO. PAC. CO. v. INDUSTRIAL ACCIDENT COMM. 259
256.

Argument for Petitioner.

advanced below on the motion for rehearing.

Godchaux

Co. v. Estopinal,supra.

The claim that the lease contract was made in course
of interstate commerce and therefore not subject to state
statutes, was insufficient to challenge the validity of the
latter; at most it but asserted a "title, right, privilege, or
immunity" under the Federal Constitution which might
afford basis for certiorari but constitutes no ground for
writ of error from this court.
Dismissed.

SOUTHERN PACIFIC COMPANY v. INDUSTRIAL
ACCIDENT COMMISSION OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA.
No. 118.

Submitted December 18, 1919.-Decided January 5, 1920.

Certiorari is the proper means of reviewing a judgment of a state court
affirming an award against a railroad company under a workmen's
compensation law, where the federal question upon which the applicability, as distinct from the validity, of that law depends, is whether
the injured employee was engaged in interstate commerce. P. 262.
A lineman engaged in the necessary work of wiping the insulators supporting a main wire, in use at the time as a conductor of electricity
which, flowing from it through a transformer, and thence along the
trolley-wires of a railroad, moved cars in interstate and intrastate
commerce, held employed in interstate commerce, within the Federal
Employers' Liability Act. Id.
178 California, 20, reversed.

THE case is stated in the opinion,
Mr. Henley C. Booth and Mr. William F. Herrin for
petitioner.

