355

.EASTERN EXTENSION TEL. CO. v. U. S.
Syllabus.

342.

founded that we cannot consent to enter upon a detailed
discussion of it. This conclusion renders § 14 of the Act
of Congress of September 8, 1916, c. 463, 39 Stat. 772,
inapplicable.
It results that the judgment of the Court of Claims is
modified, and as so modified affirmed, and the case is
remanded to that court for proceedings in accordance with

this opinion.
Affirmed with Modifications and Remanded.

EASTERN EXTENSION, AUSTRALASIA & CHINA
TELEGRAPH COMPANY, LIMITED, v. UNITED
STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 357.

Argued December 15, 1919.-Decided January 12, 1920.

The Court of Claims is without jurisdiction of a claim based on an
obligation of the United States growing directly out of the treaty
with Spain ceding the Philippine Islands or on one imposed by principles of international law as a consequence of the cession. Pp. 357,
362. Eastern Extension Tel. Co. v. United States, 231 U. S. 326;
Jud. Code, § 153.
To create an express or, (in a strict sense,) an implied contract binding the United States, some officer with express or implied power to
commit the Government must have intended that result. P. 363.
A cable company holding Spanish concessions in the Philippines obliging it to transmit government messages, in part free and in part
at reduced rates, and to pay certain taxes, and entitling it to a
subsidy, claimed the subsidy from the United States, upon the ground
that the Government, by accepting the benefits, had assumed the
burdens of the concessions. Held, that no such contract could be
derived from the facts as found. Id.
Such a contract could not be implied from the use of the cable service
in transmitting government messages, when the Government paid

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

the rates, in part reduced but all as fixed and charged by the company, and, through the Secretary of War, expressly declined free
service. P. 363.
Nor did any liability of the United States arise from expenditures
made by the company in voluntarily extending its lines with approval of the Government given without prejudice to the Government's rights. P. 364.
The acceptance by subordinate executive officials of the Insular
Government of payments tendered by the cable company in connection with statements of account assuming a recognition of its
concessions and right to subsidy, held no basis for implying an obligation of the United States to pay the subsidy. Id.
54 Ct. Clms. 108, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Louis Marshall for appellant.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Davis, with whom Mr.
W. F. Norris was on the brief, for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE CLARKE delivered the opinion of the court.
The appellant, claimant, is the grantee from the Government of Spain of three concessions to lay down and operate submarine cables. The first one, in 1879, was for the
exclusive privilege, for forty years, of constructing and
operating a cable between the Island of Luzon and Hongkong. It was landed at Bolinao, on the northerly coast
of Luzon, and dispatches were transmitted to Manila
and other places by government owned land lines, which
were subject to interruption. This concession required
that official messages be transmitted free and be given
precedence. In 1898 a second concession, supplemental
to the, first, empowered the claimant to extend its cable
to Manila and the term of the prior exclusive grant was
extended twenty years, with the same priority for official
dispatches, but with the provision that they were to be

EASTERN EXTENSION TEL. CO. v. U. S.
355.

357

Opinion of the Court.

transmitted free, only for the first ten years from the date
of this second grant.
In 1897 a third concession, the one with which this case
is chiefly concerned, authorized the claimant to lay down
and operate three submarine cables, connecting the Island of Luzon with three Visayas Islands,-Panay, Negros and Cebu. This grant required the claimant: to
operate the cables for twenty years; to give precedence
to official dispatches and to charge for them at one-half
the rates charged for private messages; to pay a tax of ten
per cent. on receipts in excess of expenses not to exceed
£6,000 per annum, an additional tax of "fifty centimes
of a franc" per word on telegrams transmitted, and a
surtax of "five centimes of a franc" per word on telegrams
between the four islands named in the grant and others
of the Archipelago.
The Government of Spain, on its part, agreed to pay
the claimant, in equal monthly instalments, an annual
subsidy of £ 4 500 during the term of the grant.
All of the cables were promptly laid down and put in
use and those of the third grant are designated in the record
as the "Visayas cables," and the grant as the "Visayas
concession." This suit is to recover the amount of the
subsidy provided for in the third concession, which had
accrued when the petition was filed.
The United States denied all liability, and the judgment of the Court of Claims, dismissing the petition, is
before us for review.
The case was here before on appeal and this court held
(231 U. S.326) that the case as then stated in the petition,
was not within the jurisdiction of the Court of Claims,
whether viewed as asserting an obligation growing directly
out of the treaty with Spain or one imposed by principles
of international law upon the United States as a consequence of the cession of the Islands by the Treaty. The
court, however, referring to'certain general and indefinite

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

allegations in the petition, suggested that the implication
might be drawn from them that there may have been
action on the part of officials of the Government of the
United States since it had assumed sovereignty over the
Islands, which, if properly pleaded and proved, would
give rise to an implied contract with the claimant outside
the Treaty, which would be within the jurisdiction of the
Court of Claims, and, to the end that the right to have
such a claim adjudicated might be saved, if it really
existed, the case was remanded for further proceedings
in conformity with the opinion.
Doubtless inspired by the suggestion from the court,
an amended petition was filed, in which claimant alleged
with much detail; that the Government of the United
States had used the cables extensively for official messages,
which had been given precedence and had been transmitted, as required by the terms of the two concesssions,
over the Hongkong cable free until 1908 and thereafter at
one-fourth of the regular rate, and over the Visayas cables
at one-half the rate charged for private dispatches; that
the claimant had paid and the Government accepted the
ten per cent. tax on receipts from messages, computed
as required by the third concession; that since the
American occupation the service over the Visayas cables
had been extended and improved at large expense by
arrangements with duly authorized officers of the Government; and that in August, 1905, the claimant had paid
and the Government had accepted a balance due on an
account stated in a form indicating an adoption of the
terms of the concessions. By this course of conduct,
it was averred, the United States "assumed and adopted"
all of the obligations imposed on the Government of
Spain by the concessions, and agreed with the claimant
to discharge and perform all of them and especially agreed
to pay the annual subsidy of £4,500, as required by Art. 10
of the third concession.

EASTERN EXTENSION TEL. CO. v. U. S.
355.

359

Opinion of the Court.

Trial by the Court of Claims resulted in findings of
fact, as follows: That the concessions were made to
claimant as alleged and that all of the cables were completed and in use when the Treaty with Spain was signed,
December 10, 1898; that the Government used the cables
extensively for official dispatches which were given priority in transmission, but that this was in accordance with
the International Telegraph Convention, as well as in compliance with the terms of the concessions; that the claimant charged the Government for messages over the Visayas
cables at one-half the rate charged for private dispatches,
which is the rate prescribed by the third concession, but
that it "has paid the full rates charged by the claimant
for messages over any of the lines" and claimant had
authority to make its own rates; and that it is not true
that the claimant transmitted messages over the Hongkong cable free of charge-"The United States Government has paid full established rates on the HongkongManila cable."
It is further found that since December, 1901, the
claimant has made claim to the subsidy in annual statements to the authorities of the Philippine Government,
in which the terms of the concession granting it were
referred to and in which the United States was charged
with the amount of it then accrued. With respect to
these, except as hereinafter noted, the court finds that
whether any reply was made to them "does not appear
from the record."
Much significance is attached by the claimant to the
statement presented on June 11, 1905. The finding with
respect to this is that on that date the claimant's representative forwarded to "The Secretary of Finance and Justice," an officer of the Philippine Government at Manila,
a communication, with an attached statement, purporting to show the amount "due to the United States Government in the Philippines on account of the transmission

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

of all United States Government traffic over the ManilaHongkong cable, as per the concession granted us for
the laying of the same, up to and including December
31, 1904."
In this statement the Government is credited (as if
the amount had not been paid) with what it had paid
for service over the Hongkong-Manila cable, laid under
the first and second concessions, from August 21, 1898,
to December 31, 1904, and it is charged with "Visayas
subsidy," under the third concession, £4,500 per annum
to December, 1904. Thus a balance was arrived at of
£4,712.10.6 in favor of the United States, as to the disposal of which "I shall be glad to receive your instruc.
tions," wrote the representative of the claimant.
In reply to this the Auditor of the Government of the
Philippine Islands, to whom it had been referred, wrote
to claimant's representative at Manila, acknowledging
receipt of his letter in which it was stated "there is due
the Insular Government under your concession the sum
of £4,712.10.6" and the Auditor added "It is respectfully
requested that said amount be deposited with the Insular
Treasurer as miscellaneous revenue." Payment was
made and receipt given by the Treasurer of the Government of the Philippine Islands for the amount as "due
Government as per statement of account rendered by
Eastern Extension, etc., Telegraph Co. to Secretary, Finance & Justice June 11, 1905."
Each year after 1905 the claimant sent a statement
to the "Secretary of Finance and Justice" at Manila
in the form following: "The United States Government
at Manila in account with the Eastern Extension, Australasia and China Telegraph Co., Limited.

.

.

.

Free

transmission of American Government Telegrams over
Hongkong-Manila Section." Then follow credits for
messages passing over the Hongkong-Manila cable, as
if they had not been paid for, and a debit of the "Visayas

EASTERN EXTENSION TEL. CO. v. U. S.
355.

361

Opinion of the Court.

subsidy" accrued to the date of the statement. To these
no reply appears to have been made.
It is expressly found that:
"Except the payment above referred to in 1905, the
claimant has never paid anything into the treasury of
the Philippine Government. It does not appear that
any part of said sum was paid into the Treasury of the
United States. Nor has the claimant paid any sum to
the United States Government."
The only payment of the ten per cent. tax under the
third concession was that made in 1905, £184.17.2, and
the statement showing this balance in favor of the United
States concluded:
"I therefore have the honor to request that the necessary permission be given to the Treasurer to receive
these amounts, now standing to the credit of the United
States Government in the Philippines."
Of its own motion the claimant, in 1899, made extensions of the Visayas cables at a considerable expense.
But the finding with respect to this is:
"These extensions were carried out with the approval
of the military authorities in control of the Philippines
at that time, and by the sanction of the United States
Government, but without prejudice to, and with the
reservation of, all rights of the Government of the United
States."
The following is from the court's finding of fact No. IX:
"Between the 10th day of December, 1898, and March,
1899, considerable correspondence was exchanged between the Government of the United States and the
claimant regarding the transmission of official telegrams
over the Hongkong-Manila cable at reduced rates.
"On the 1st of March, 1899, the Secretary of 'War
transmitted to the chairman of the claimant company
a telegram, stating that the War Department 'accepts
the courteous offer of your company to transmit messages

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

free between Hongkong and Manila, providing that this
acceptance leaves in abeyance Spanish concession which
is now under consideration.' On the following day the
claimant's reply was transmitted to the War Department, stating that the foregoing telegram had been
received and the reservation therein noted, and that
'the company have pleasure in affording all possible
facilities to the United States Government in connection
with the transmission of their telegrams.' On the 28th
of March, 1899, a written communication was transmitted by the War Department to the duly authorized
representative of the claimant company, to the effect
that 'upon careful reconsideration of the subject it is
deemed inadvisible for the department to avail itself
of your company's offer. I beg to state, therefore, that
the department will pay the established rates on official
cable messages, and all accounts of this character presented to the United States will be paid.' This communication concluded with a renewal of thanks 'for the voluntary reduction in rates which your company has so
courteously tendered.' The United- States Government
.has paid full established rates on the Hongkong-Manila
cable, and has paid the established rates on the Visayas
cables on its messages."
Upon these findings of fact and upon principles and
analogies derived from the law of private contract, the
court must proceed to judgment. For it was determined
by this court on the former appeal, that any right in the
defendant derived directly from the Treaty with Spain,
or any obligation imposed upon the United States by
principles of international law as a consequence of the
cession of the Islands, would not be within the jurisdiction of the Court of Claims, and counsel for claimant,
expressly disclaiming the assertion of any right under
the Treaty of Paris, urge that the case be treated exactly
as it would be if it arose between two private citizens.

EASTERN EXTENSION TEL. CO. v. U. S.
355.

Opinion of the Court.

So regarding the case. It is obvious that no express
contract by the United States to adopt and be bound
by the third or any of the concessions can be made out
from the findings of fact, and it is equally clear that
such an implied contract, using the words in any strict
sense, cannot be derived from the findings, for it is plain
that -there is nothing in them tending to show that any
official with power, express or implied, to commit that
Government to such a contract ever intended to so commit it.
The contention of the claimant must be sustained,
if at all, as a quasi-contract,-as an obligation imposed
by law independent of intention on the part of any officials
to bind the Government,-one which in equity and good
conscience the Government should discharge because
of the conduct of its representatives in dealing with
the subject-matter.
It is argued that the United States should be held
to have- assumed the burden of the concession because
it derived benefits and advantages from the use of the
cables.
These cables were in operation when the United States
Government assdmed jurisdiction over the Islands. It
extended a much more efficient governmental protection
over the lines than they had before, but left the claimant
in full ownership and control over them with the power
to determine rates for service. The Government, to be
sure, availed itself of the advantages of communication
which the cables afforded, but for such service it paid
the rates which the claimant demanded and which it
must be assumed were adequate. From such circumstances as these, very clearly, the law will not raise an
obligation on the part of the Government to assume the
burden of the subsidy on the principle of undue enrichment or of advantage obtained. It used the cables as
other customers used them and from such a use, paid

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

for at the full rate demanded, no obligation can be derived by implication.
It is further contended that the terms and conditions
of the concession should be imposed on the Government
because the officials of the Philippine Government accepted taxes computed as provided for by the third grant.
The finding of the Court of Claims is not that the
Philippine Government demanded. or exacted the small
amount of taxes that was paid, but that the claimant
itself computed the amount in the manner which it
thought was provided for in the concession and tendered
payment, which, after repeated urging, was accepted by
local officers of the Philippine Government, so, subordinate
in character that it is impossible to consider them as empowered to commit the Government of the United States
to the large responsibilities now claimed to spring from
their conduct.
The finding with respect to extension of the cables in
1899 excludes all suggestion of the assumption of any
liability by the United States on account of the expenditure involved.
The form of the statement of account of December 31,
1904, showing a balance favorable to the United States,
which was paid to and accepted by the Treasurer of the
Philippine Government, and from which so much is
claimed, is not impressive as creating the asserted liability.
Here again the claimant, without suggestion of demand
from the Government of the United States or even from
the Philippine Govermnent, prepared a statement and,
in order to give it the form of an account, was obliged to
treat as unpaid, charges for tolls over the HongkongManila cable all of which had been paid by the United
States Government and accepted by the claimant.
A separate government, sustained by its own revenues,
has been maintained for the Philippine Islands ever since
they were ceded to the United States. At first military,

EASTERN EXTENSION TEL. CO. v. U. S.
355.

365

Opinion of the Court.

it became a civil government in 1902, organized as provided for by an act of Congress (32 Stat. 691, c. 1369),
with a Governor General, and executive, legislative and
judicial departments, all subject to the supervision of the
Secretary of War of the United States.
It is surprising that the claimant, when it desired to
have these important concessions, with their large obligations, adopted by the Government of the United States,
did not make application for that purpose directly to that
Government or to its Secretary of War, or at least to the
Governor General or legislative department of the Philippine Government, instead of relying for its adoption by
implication, as it has done, chiefly upon the form in which
the accounts were presented to the Secretary of Finance
and Justice of the Philippine Government.
The action of a department head of the Philippine
Government, (inconsistent with the position taken by the
Secretary of War in 1899, with respect to the subjectmatter) in accepting a voluntary payment of $23,000
cannot be made the sufficient basis for implying an obligation on the part of the Government of the United States
to pay a bonus of a total aggregate of almost $440,000.
If doubt could be entertained as to the correctness of
this conclusion it would be disposed of by the fact that
when the claimant, in March, 1899, tendered to the
Secretary of War, so far as appears the only official of the
United States with large powers, who considered the
subject, the privilege of free transmission of messages
over its Hongkong-Manila cable, as was provided for in
the first concession, the offer was politely but firmly declined, with the statement that "the department will pay
the established rates on official cable messages, and all
accounts of this character presented to the United States
will be paid,"-a promise which the findings show that
he and his successors in office have faithfully kept.
In the jurisdiction given to the Court of Claims Con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1919..
Syllabus.

251 U. S.

gress has consented that contracts, express or implied,
may be judicially enforced against theGovernment of the
United States. But such a liability can be created only
by some officer of the Government lawfully invested with
power to make such contracts or to perform acts from
which they may be lawfully implied. Langford v. United

States, 101 U. S. 341, 345; United States v. Buffalo Pitts Co.,
234 U. S. 228; Tempel v. United States, 248 U. S. 121;
Ball Engineering Co. v. J. G. White & Co., 250 U. S. 55.
The foregoing discussion makes it palpably plain that
no contract, express or implied, to pay the disputed subsidy, was made by any officer of the United States, and
the judgment of the Court of Claims is therefore

Affirmed.

NAPA VALLEY ELECTRIC COMPANY v. RAILROAD COMMISSION OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 401.

Argued December 12, 1919.-Decided January 19, 1920.

Under § 67 of the Public Utilities Act of California, as construed by
the Supreme Court of the State, a petition to that court for a writ
of review to bring up proceedings of the Board of Railroad Commissioners in which rates for electric power were fixed in alleged
violation of constitutional rights and excess of the Board's jurisdiction, may be disposed of upon the merits, by an order simply refusing the writ, if the facts are fully stated in the petition, the
provisions for issuing such writ and for subsequent decision upon the
record from the Board not being mandatory in such cases. P. 370.
In a suit brought in the District Court to enjoin enforcement of rates
fixed by such Board, it will be presumed that a petition, not in the
record, upon which the state Supreme Court refused a writ of review,

