GODCHAUX CO. v. ESTOPINAL.
173.

Counsel for Plaintiff in Error.

preme Court, but each reached the conclusion we are
reviewing independently of, and without reference to it.
Cross Lake Shooting & Fishing Club v. Louisiana,224 U. S.
632, 639; Long Sault Development Co. v. Call, 242 U. S. 272,
277.

It results that, since the change of law complained of did
not impair any federal constitutional right of the plaintiff
in error, the judgment of the Supreme Court of Ohio,
restrained to the scope of its opinion, as we have interpreted it, must be
A flirmed.
did not participate in the discussion or
decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE DAY

GODCHAUX COMPANY, INCORPORATED, v. ESTOPINAL, SHERIFF OF THE PARISH OF ST.
BERNARD, ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF LOUISIANA.

No. 101.

Argued November 17, 18, 1919.-Decided December 22, 1919.

A writ of error will not lie under Jud. Code, ยง 237, as amended, to review
a judgment of a state court upon the ground that it erroneously
sustained an amendment to the state constitution, where the validity
of such amendment under the Federal Constitution was first drawn
in question by a petition for 'rehearing which was not entertained.
P. 180.
Writ of error to review 142 Louisiana, 812, dismissed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. R. C. Milling, with whom Mr. R. E. Milling was
on the briefs, for plaintiff in error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

Mr. William Winans Wall, with whom Mr. N. H. Nunez
was on the brief, for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

delivered the opinion of the

court.
By petition filed in the District Court, St. Bernard
Parish, plaintiff in error sought to restrain collection of an
acreage tax assessed against its lands not susceptible of
gravity drainage. Invalidity of the tax was alleged upon
the ground that no statute of Louisiana authorized it and
also because its enforcement would produce practical
confiscation and take property without due process of law
contrary to the Fourteenth Amendment. Answering, defendant in error asked dismissal of the petition, claiming
the tax was properly assessed and also that an amendment
to Article 281 of the Louisiana Constitution, adopted
November, 1914, deprived the court of jurisdiction to
entertain the contest. The trial court exercised jurisdiction, sustained the tax and dismissed the petition. Upon
a broad appeal the Supreme Court, after declaring that
the constitutional amendment deprived the courts of the
State of jurisdiction over the controversy, affirmed the
judgment of the trial court. 142 Louisiana, 812.
The record fails to disclose that plaintiff in error at any
time or in any way challenged the validity of the state
constitutional amendment because of conflict with the
Federal Constitution until it applied for a rehearing in the
Supreme Court. That application was refused without
more. Here the sole error assigned is predicated upon
such supposed conflict; and, unless that point was properly raised below, a writ of error cannot bring the cause
before us.
Such a writ only lies to review "a final judgment or
decree in any suit in the highest court of a State in which
a decision in the suit could be had, where is drawn in

GODCHAUX CO. v. ESTOPINAL.
179

WHITE,

Ch. J., concurring.

question the validity of a treaty or statute of, or an
authority exercised under the United States, and the
decision is against their validity; or where is drawn in
question the validity of a statute of, or an authority
exercised under any State, on the ground of their being
repugnant to the Constitution, treaties, or laws of the
United States, and the decision is in favor of their validity." Judicial Code, ยง 237; Act September 6, 1916, c. 448,
39 Stat. 726.
The settled rule is that in order to give us jurisdiction
to review the judgment of a state court upon writ of error
the essential federal question must have been especially
set up there at the proper time and in the proper manner;
and further, that if first presented in a petition for rehearing, it comes too late unless the court actually entertains
the petition and passes upon the point. Mutual Life
Insurance Co. v. McGrew, 188 U. S. 291, 308; St. Louis &
San Francisco R. R. Co. v. Shepherd, 240 U. S. 240; Missouri Pacific Ry. Co. v. Taber, 244 U. S. 200.
The writ of error is
Dismissed.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE concurs in the result, solely on the
ground that as the court below exerted jurisdiction and
decided the cause-by the judgment to which the writ of
error is directed-the contention that a federal right was
violated by the refusal of the court to take jurisdiction
is too unsubstantial and frivolous to give rise to a federal
question.

