OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Syllabus.

251 U. S.

CORSICANA NATIONAL BANK OF CORSICANA v.
JOHNSON.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIFTH
CIRCUIT.

No. 23.

Argued January 16, 1919.-Decided December 8, 1919.

A loan made by a national bank to two persons jointly, or in form one
half to each but in substance as a single loan, violates the National
Bank Act if in excess of the limit set by Rev. Stats., § 5200; and, in
a complaint filed by the bank to recover resulting damages from a
director under § 5239, a designation of the borrowers as a firm is
descriptive merely and not essential. P. 80.
There was substantial evidence in this case from which the jury might
find that there was a single, excessive loan to two persons, in making
which defendant as a director of the plaintiff bank knowingly participated, rather than two loans, neither of them excessive, made
to the borrowers severally. Id.
Contingent liabilities incurred by one person avowedly and in fact as
surety or as indorser for money borrowed by another are not "liabilities

.

.

.

for money borrowed" in the sense of Rev. Stats.,

§ 5200. P. 82. Cochran v. United States, 157 U. S. 286; Rev. Stats.,
§ 5211, distinguished.
And where the surety signs ostensibly as joint maker, a director who
knew and relied upon his suretyship is entitled to prove it when
sued under § 5239 for participating in the making of an alleged
excessive loan. P. 83.
A director's liability for knowingly participating in the making of
a loan in excess of the limit prescribed by Rev. Stats., § 5200,
is not affected by the supposed standing of the borrowers, the
propriety of his motive,, the continued prosperity of the bank,
its failure to sue other officers or directors, or to sue him until after
a change in the stockholding interest or control, or by the fact
that incoming stockholders purchased their shares with knowledge
of the loan and of his alleged liability and may profit by a recovery
against him. Id.
An action in Texas by a national bank against a former director, under
Rev. Stats., § 5239, for damages resulting from an excessive loan,

CORSICANA NAT'L BANK v. JOHNSON.
68.

Syllabus.

is not barred in two years, but in four. Vernon's Sayles' Civ. Stats.,
1914, Arts. 5687, 5690. P. 85.
The liability imposed upon the director under Rev. Stats., § 5239, is
direct, not contingent or collateral; the cause of action and the damages are complete when the money is loaned, and, while the damages
may be diminished by what the bank collects from the borrowers,
it is not obliged to proceed primarily against them. P. 86.
The excessive loan being unlawful in toto, the bank's damage in such
cases is not measured by the part in excess of what might have been
lent lawfully, but by the whole amount plus interest and less salvage. P. 87.
When a director and vice president of a national bank makes an excessive loan, and, afterwards, .knowing the borrowers to have become
insolvent, joins in causing their paper to be transferred for full consideration but "without recourse" from the bank to a loan corporation, closely affiliated with the bank and having identical officers,
directors and shareholders with ratable distribution of shares, the
transaction, not having been ratified or acquiesced in by the shareholders, is subject to rescission by the loan company through resolution of a majority in interest at a regular shareholders' meeting,
followed by appropriate action of its directors and officers; and an
acquiescence in such rescission upon the part of the bank, through
its shareholders, directors and officers, is not to be regarded as a
voluntary reacceptance of the paper in such a sense that the damages
resulting from nonpayment of the loan must be treated, in an action
against the director under Rev. Stats., § 5239, as flowing from such
voluntary action and not from the unlawful loan itself. P. 88.
In such a case, although the two corporations arc distinct in so far
that a loss on the paper to the loan company would not be the same
in law as a loss to the bank, the shareholders nevertheless have a
right to consider the practical effect of the transfer upon their common interest and to be guided by that interest in determining whether
and upon what terms to rescind the transfer. P. 89.
Since the transfer would operate only provisionally to satisfy the damages to the bank from the excessive loan, the rescission leaves the
director liable for the damages in full; nor is it open to him to object
that the rescission was brought about for the purpose of holding
him so liable, through changes in the boards of directors involving
the introduction of figureheads or "dummies," nor to criticise the
terms of the re-transfer agreed to by the txo corporations. P. 93.
Reversed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

Mr. Joseph Manson McCormick, with whom Mr.
Richard Mays and Mr. Francis Marion Etheridge were on
the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Cullen F. Thomas, Mr. W. J. McKie and Mr.
Henry C. Coke, for defendant in error, submitted.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This was an action brought under § 5239, Rev. Stats.,
in the then Circuit now District Court of the United
States for the Northern District of Texas by plaintiff in
error, a national banking association which we may call
for convenience the Bank, against defendant in error,
formerly a member of its board of directors and its vice
president, to hold him liable personally for damages
sustained by the Bank in consequence of his having
knowingly violated, as was alleged, the provisions of
§ 5200, Rev. Stats., as amended June 22, 1906, c. 3516, 34
Stat. 451, by participating as such director and vice
president in a loan of the Bank's funds to an amount
exceeding one-tenth of its paid-in capital and surplus.
The action appears to have been commenced in February, 1910, and, after delays not necessary to be recounted, was tried before the District Court with a jury.
A verdict was directed in favor of defendant, and the
judgment thereon was affirmed by the Circuit Court of
Appeals, no opinion being delivered in either court. The
judgment of affirmance is now under review.
The amended § 5200, Rev. Stats., as it stood at the time
the alleged cause of action arose, reads as follows, the
matter inserted by the amendment being indicated by
brackets:
"Sec. 5200. The total. liabilities to any association, of
any person, or of any company, corporation, or firm for
money borrowed, including in the liabilities of a company

CORSICANA NAT'L BANK v. JOHNSON.
68.

Opinion of the Court.

or firm the liabilities of the several members thereof,
shall at no time exceed one-tenth part of the amount of
the capital stock of such associations, actually paid in
[and unimpaired and one-tenth part of its unimpaired
surplus fund: Provided, however, That the total of such
liabilities shall in no event exceed thirty per centum of the
capital stock of the association]. But the discount of bills
of exchange drawn in good faith against actually existing
values, and the discount of commercial or business paper
actually owned by the person negotiating the same shall
not be considered as money borrowed."
The pertinent portion of the other section reads as
follows:
"Sec. 5239. If the directors of any national banking
association shall knowingly violate, or knowingly permit
any of the officers, agents, or servants of the association
to violate any of the provisions of this Title, all the rights,
privileges, and franchises of the association shall be
thereby forfeited.

.

.

. And in cases of such violation,

every director who participated in or assented to the
same shall be held liable in his personal and individual
capacity for all damages which the association, its shareholders, or any other person, shall have sustained in consequence of such violation."
Under the rule settled by familiar decisions of this
court, in order for the Bank to prevail in this action it
must appear not only that the liabilities of a person, company, firm, etc., to the Bank for money borrowed were
permitted to exceed the prescribed limit, but that defendant, while a director, participated in or assented to the
excessive loan or loans not through mere negligence but
knowingly and in effect intentionally, Yates v. Jones
National Bank, 206 U. S. 158, 180; with this qualification,
that if he deliberately refrained from investigating that
which it was his duty to investigate, any resulting violation of the statute must be regarded as "in effect inten-

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

tional," Thomas v. Taylor, 224 U. S. 73, 82; Jones National
Bank v. Yates, 240 U. S. 541, 555.

The facts are involved, and need to be fully stated. And
necessarily, in order to test the propriety of the peremptory instruction given by the trial judge, we must bring
into view the facts and the reasonable inferences which
tended to a different conclusion, and where the evidence
was in substantial dispute must adopt a view of it favorable to plaintiff; but of course we do this without intending
to intimate what view the jury ought to have taken, had
the case been submitted to it.
On June 10, 1907, plaintiff, whose banking house was at
Corsicana, Texas, had $100,000 capital and $100,000
surplus, aggregating $200,000, and making $20,000 the
applicable limit under § 5200. Defendant was a director
and vice president of the Bank, active-perhaps dominant-in the conduct of its banking business, and familiar
with the state of its finances.
The averment of a breach of duty relates to an alleged
excessive loan or loans made on or about the date last
mentioned to Fred Fleming and D. A. Templeton, who
for a considerable time had been engaged in business as
private bankers in Corsicana and in several other towns
in Texas under the firm name of Fleming & Templeton,
and also had conducted at Corsicana a branch bank for
the Western Bank & Trust Company, a state institution
of which Fleming was president and Templeton vice
president and whose main banking house appears to have
been at Dallas, about 50 miles from Corsicana. There was
evidence that early in June, 1907, Fleming & Templeton
terminated their private banking business at Corsicana
and turned over their deposit accounts-between $30,000
and $40,000-to the Corsicana National Bank, plaintiff
herein, together with money or exchange on the Western
Bank & Trust Company sufficient to meet them. Whether
the firm was in fact dissolved at that time or later, and

CORSICANA NAT'L BANK v. JOHNSON.
68.

Opinion of the Court.

whether the dissolution applied to their other branches,
or to the Corsicana business only, were points concerning
which under the evidence there was some doubt.
On or about June 10th, while the president of the Bank
was absent on vacation, defendant loaned for the Bank to
Fleming and Templeton $30,000 (less discount) upon two
promissory notes for $15,000 each, maturing in six months.
Defendant testified .that both Fleming and Templeton
negotiated with him, asking for two separate loans of
$15,000 each, telling him that they had dissolved partnership and were winding up and closing out at Corsicana,
and would turn over between $30,000 and $40,000 of
deposits to the Corsicana National Bank. He further
testified: "One of the considerations of this loan was the
transfer of the deposits and with it the accounts of Fleming
& Templeton." He insisted that two separate loans were
made, of $15,000 each, one to Fleming for which Templeton was surety, the other to Templeton for which Fleming
was surety. But defendant's own account of the circumstances under which and the special inducement upon
which the loan was made, with other evidence to be
recited below, left room for a reasonable inference that
there was in fact but a single loan, and that separate
notes were taken in order to avoid the appearance of a
loan in excess of the limit. They were in the usual form
of joint and several notes, payable to plaintiff's order.
One was signed "Fred Fleming, D. A. Templeton," the
other "D. A. Templeton, Fred Fleming," without naming
either maker as surety. Discount to the amount Of $900
was deducted, and the net proceeds, $29,100, were paid by
a draft drawn by the Bank on the Western Bank & Trust
Company to the order of "Fleming & Templeton," which
was sent by mail inclosed in a letter written upon the
Bank's letter-head, dated June 10, 1907, and addressed to
Templeton at Dallas, in which letter, after acknowledging
receipt of the two notes for $15,000 each, "signed by

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

yourself and Fred Fleming," it was stated: "We have
deducted the discount, $900.00, and, hand you herewith
our draft #A, 7830, on Western Bank & Trust Co., order
Fleming & Templeton, for $29,100.00." The retained
copy of this letter appears to have been introduced in
evidence; at the foot, opposite the place of signature, are
the initials "V. P." With regard to this, as also to certain other "V. P." letters dated in the following December
and relating to renewal of the notes, defendant testified:
"I think I signed the letters which are offered in evidence
as Exhibits H," etc.
There was evidence that the draft for $29,100 was indorsed in the firm name by Templeton and deposited in
the Western Bank & Trust Company at Dallas to the
credit of the joint account of Fleming & Templeton, to
make up in part an overdraft amounting to more than
$125,000; this account having been overdrawn constantly,
and in large but varying amounts, since the preceding
April.
As a result of an examination of the Bank made a few
days later, the Comptroller of the Currency wrote to its
president under date June 22, severely criticising the
Fleming-Templeton loan, among others, as excessive
under § 5200, Rev. Stats., and saying: "Immediate arrangements must be made to reduce these loans to the
legal limit." It was a fair inference that defendant knew
of this letter, or in the proper performance of his duties
would have known of it. Whether any reply was made to
it did not appear.
Notwithstanding the warning thus given, when the
notes matured in December they were renewed with
defendant's assent for a further period of six months,
joint notes being given to the Bank as before, and the
further sum of $900 being paid by Fleming & Templeton
to the Bank for interest in this way: plaintiff, under
defendant's direction, charged the amount in a single

CORSICANA NAT'L BANK v. JOHNSON.
68.

Opinion of the Court.

item to the Western Bank & Trust Co., for account of the
borrowers, and the latter institution acknowledged the
charge, gave credit to plaintiff for the amount, and charged
it against the joint account of Fleming & Templeton.
During December some correspondence passed between
defendant at Corsicana, he writing as vice president of the
Bank, and Templeton at Dallas, relating to the renewal of
the notes, tending to show that they were regarded by
both writers as representing a single obligation of "Fleming & Templeton." Thus, Templeton on December 3d
wrote to defendant: "Referring to the notes of Fleming &
Templeton," etc.; and defendant wrote (o him on the
following day mentioning "renewal notes of loan to you
and Mr. Fleming."
The evidence tended to show that up to the time of the
renewal the borrowers were apparently solvent, but that
about January 15, 1908, they became manifestly and
notoriously insolvent. The Western Bank & Trust Company closed its doors on that date and went into liquidation, with Fleming and Templeton owing it several hundred thousand dollars. About the same time Fleming and
perhaps Templeton went into bankruptcy, and Templeton
afterwards died, and their respective estates paid small
dividends upon their obligations. The jury would have
been warranted in finding that it was evident to defendant,
as a banker, on and after the 15th of January, that there
would be a substantial loss upon the Fleming and Templeton notes.
On February, 6, 1908, an official bank examiner visited
the Bank, with the result that on the 26th the Deputy
Comptroller wrote calling the attention of its officers to
alleged repeated violations of the national banking law
in the conduct of its affairs, specifying certain loans in
excess of the limit prescribed by § 5200, among them
"Fleming & Templeton, $30,000," and stating that "the
directors who are responsible for the loans or permitted

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

them to be made should assume liability for any loss that
may be sustained thereon and not throw the burden of
such loss on innocent stockholders." On March 11 the
directors, including defendant, united in signing a letter
to the Comptroller in reply to his criticisms, among other
things saying: "Reference to the Fleming & Templeton
item of $30,000 we beg to say that this item has been
disposed of by the Bank and they now owe us nothing."
It was a reasonable inference that defendant intended to
admit that it was a single loan and in excess of the limit.
In explanation of the statement that it had been "disposed of by the Bank," the evidence tended to show that
on February 12, 1908, nearly a month after the insolvency
of Fleming and Templeton had become notorious and a
few days after the bank examiner's visit, defendant and
the president of the Bank caused the two notes of December 10 to be transferred "without recourse" to an affiliated
corporation known as the Corsicana National Land &
Loan Company (they being directors and officers of this
corporation also), upon payment of $29,400, the full face
value less discount, as consideration; the payment being
made by a transfer of credit upon the books of the Bank.
Defendant relies upon this as wholly relieving the Bank
from loss by reason of the loan, and consequently as
releasing him from responsibility to the Bank. But the
evidence tended to show further that the loan company
in January, 1910, shortly before this suit was brought,
rescinded the transaction upon the ground of fraud, and
that there was a settlement as between the loan company
and the Bank based upon an acknowledgment by the
latter of the former's right to rescind.
A brief account of the relations between these two
corporations, and of their dealings respecting the notes
in question, becomes material. The loan company was
organized in the month of May, 1907, under the laws of
the State of Texas, with $50,000 capital stock and with

CORSICANA NAT'L BANK v. JOHNSON.
68.

Opinion of the Court.

stockholders and directors identical with those of the
Bank. The capital of the company was subscribed for and
paid out of a special dividend declared by the directors of
the Bank for the purpose, and each stockholder had the
same proportion of stock in the company as in the Bank.
The purpose of the new corporation, as declared in its
charter, was the "accumulation and loan of money."
Defendant testified: "The purpose of the loan company,
a state corporation, was to take such paper as the bank
could not handle. It was organized by the stockholders of the bank and paid for out of the earnings of our
bank. . . . The loans of the loan company were largely
real estate loans. It was to help out the bank in every
possible [way]." From the organization of the company
in the spring of 1907 until the spring of 1909, defendant
was a director and active in the management of the company as well as of the Bank. He testified that the stockholders of the two corporations were identical, and continued to be so during the entire period just mentioned;
that "whenever there was a sale of bank stock, it carried
with it that particular shareholder's stock in the loan company." During the same period the two corporations had
the same president, vice president, and directors, while
the assistant cashier of the Bank was secretary of the
loan company.
So far as appeared, the transfer of the Fleming and
Templeton notes to the loan company, and the payment
made by the company to the Bank, were never expressly
authorized or ratified by the stockholders of either corporation; nor did it appear that the stockholders of the loan
company ever authorized its directors to employ its
funds in taking bad or doubtful paper off the hands of the
Bank at a loss; much less, to relieve the directors of the
Bank from responsibility for its losses.
In April or May, 1909, there was a change in the control
of the Bank due to sales of a majority of the stock followed

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

by a change of officers, defendant retiring as both stockholder and director. The corresponding shares of the
stock of the loan company were transferred at the same
time, and the new management officered the company as
well as the Bank. So far as appeared from the evidence,
the transfer of defendant's stock carried with it no agreement that he should not be held responsible to the Bank
because of the Fleming and Templeton loan, nor any
approval of the transfer of the loan to the loan company.
The Bank and the loan company held annual meetings of
stockholders on January 11, 1910, at which, for the first
time so far as appears, the boards of directors were so
selected that a majority of one board no longer were
directors of the other corporation. This was done by
electing, as five out of nine directors of the loan company,
individuals holding one share of stock each, recently
placed in their names for the purpose of qualifying them.
They were not stockholders of the Bank; but, except for
them, the stockholders of the two corporations still were
the same, and it was a reasonable inference that the
two meetings were attended by the same individuals.
Minutes of these stockholders' meetings, and of certain
meetings of the respective boards of directors, were introduced in evidence and supplemented by other testimony,
from all of which the following additional corporate
proceedings appeared. Th stockholders of the loan
company, more than a majority in interest being present,
unanimously adopted a resolution re~iting the taking of
the notes of December 10, 1907, by the Bank from Fleming and Templeton, and that on or about January 15,
1908, the makers became insolvent and the notes worthless and uncollectible; and setting forth that, with knowledge of this fact, certain of the directors and officers of the
Bank illegally and wrongfully transferred the notes to the
loan company, for which the same officers and directors,

CORSICANA NAT'L BANK v. JOHNSON.

68.

Opinion of the Court.

being likewise officers and directors of the loan company,
illegally and wrongfully transferred to the Bank out of the
funds of the loan company the face value of the notes,
whereby the Bank had committed a wrong upon the loan
company and was liable to it therefor; and by this resolution the directors of the company were authorized to
adjust and settle this demand against the Bank and to
tender and return to the Bank the Fleming and Templeton
notes and indebtedness with any collateral security held
for them. The directors of the loan company thereafter
and on the same day passed a resolution to the like effect,
and appointed a committee to make demand upon the
Bank for return of the money wrongfully transferred to
the Bank for the notes and to adjust and settle this demand; the notes and indebtedness of Fleming and Templeton and any collateral security held therefor being at the
same time tendered and ordered to be returned to the
Bank. This committee appeared before the stockholders'
meeting of the Bank and formally presented the demand,
whereupon these stockholders authorized their board of
directors to act upon the claim made on the Bank by the
loan company and to adjust and settle it if they should
conclude that the Bank was liable to the loan company,
otherwise to reject it. A few days later a meeting of the
new board of directors of the Bank was held, at which a
communication from the loan company committee was
presented, in substance the same as that previously presented to the Bank stockholders, and the resolution of the
Bank stockholders thereon was read; and thereupon the
directors authorized the president of the Bank, if he believed the claim of the loan company to be just, to proceed
to settle it in such a way as he might deem to be to the
best interest of the Bank. Under this authority, the president of the Bank communicated to the loan company
committee in substance that the Bank recognized the
legality and justness of the claim of the loan company and

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

would pay it provided the company would purchase from
the Bank a certain cotton mill property for the sum of
$65,000, accept $30,000 of this in payment of its demand
against the Bank, transfer to the Bank the Fleming and
Templeton notes and indebtedness, with all collateral
securing the same, and execute to the Bank its own promissory note for the remaining $35,000, with the cotton
mill property as security. This was agreed to by the
directors of the loan company, and the settlement was
carried out accordingly. Shortly after this, the present
action was brought.
The "collateral security" above referred to appears to
have consisted of certain shares of stock in a corporation
known as the Fleming Ranch & Cattle Company, acquired in the winding-up of the bankrupt estate of Fleming. These shares, so far as the evidence showed, were
the only thing of value recovered either by the loan
company or by the Bank from the estates of the borrowers.
After the present suit was commenced, the Fleming
Ranch & Cattle Company was liquidated, and in the
distribution of its assets the Bank received sums aggregating $9,149.34, which are credited as payments on
account of its claim against defendant.
So far as the above-recited facts were in dispute, there
was substantial evidence tending to support a view of them
favorable to plaintiff's contentions. What weight should
be given .toit was for the jury, not the court, to determine.
Hepburn v. Dubois, 12 Pet. 345, 376; Lancaster v. Collins,
115 U. S. 222, 225; Chicago & Northwestern Ry. Co. v.
Ohle, 117 U. S.123, 129; X,tna Life Ins. Co. v. Ward, 140
U. S.76, 91; Troxell v. Delaware, Lackawanna & Western
R. R. Co., 227 U. S.434, 444.
We proceed to consider, in the order of convenience, the
questions raised upon the record.
(1) And first, as to the direction of a verdict in favor of
defendant. Plaintiff, in the amended petition upon which

CORSICANA NAT'L BANK v. JOHNSON.
68.

Opinion of the Court.

the case went to trial, after a circumstantial statement
respecting the transaction of June 10, 1907, alleged that
the discount of the notes "was an excessive loan, whether
regarded as one loan to the firm of Fleming & Templeton,
as plaintiff alleges the fact to be, or regarded as two loans,
as contended for by the defendant in his pleadings heretofore filed herein." The designation of Fleming & Templeton as a "firm" is but descriptive and not essential, and
the pleading is sufficient if the proof tended to show a
single and excessive loan made to them jointly in any
capacity, or made in form one-half to each but in substance as a single loan.
In our opinion, the trial judge clearly erred in holding,
as in effect he must have held, that there was no substantial evidence from which the jury might find that
there was an excessive loan in the making of which defendant, as a director of the Bank, knowingly participated.
That he acted for the Bank in the matter, and that he
knew that any loan in excess of $20,000 was prohibited,
he admitted. His denial that it was a single loan, or that
he knew it to be such, is not conclusive; there being
substantial evidence inconsistent with it, tending to show
facts and circumstances attendant upon the transaction,
of which he had knowledge, and also subsequent conduct
in the nature of admissions by him, inconsistent with his
testimony upon this point. The account of the negotiations, as given in defendant's own testimony; the fact
that he knew that the firm of Fleming & Templeton, even
if dissolved, was still in liquidation; that one of the inducements for the loan (or "loans") was the transfer of
deposit accounts of equal or greater amount from the firm
to the Bank; that Templeton alone (as shown by the
exhibits) appears to have corresponded with defendant
concerning the notes; that defendant himself, as vice
president of the Bank, wrote to Templeton acknowledging receipt of the two notes for $15,000 each, "signed

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.

Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

by yourself and Fred Fleming," and having "deducted
the discount, $900," inclosed the Bank's draft "order
Fleming & Templeton for $29,100"; that when the notes
fell due in December the correspondence concerning their
renewal was conducted by defendant with Templeton
alone, and they were treated as representing a single loan
and the discount was charged by defendant or under his
direction in a single item; that after the borrowers had
become notoriously insolvent, in February, 1908, defendant took part in transferring the notes "without recourse"
to the affiliated loan company in the manner and under
the circumstances above stated; that the transfer was
effected a few days after the visit of the bank examiner;
that when the Deputy Comptroller wrote to the Bank,
classifying "Fleming & Templeton $30,000" as an excessive loan and demanding that the directors responsible
for making it should assume the loss, defendant joined
in signing the reply that has been quoted ;-all this, to
say nothing of other circumstances that might be mentioned, would have warranted the jury in finding, notwithstanding defendant's denial, that in fact the disputed
transaction was a single loan of $30,000 less discount, or,
to be precise, $29,100, made to Fleming and Templeton
jointly; that defendant knew and assented to this at the
time; and that the taking of two notes was but a device to
conceal the true nature of the transaction.
(2) Irrespective of whether there was but a single loan
or were two separate loans, plaintiff in error contends that
the liability of a surety must be added to his direct and
primary liability in determining his total liabilities for
money borrowed within the meaning of § 5200, and that
in the present case, although the notes should be found to
have represented two entirely separate loans, each within
the limit, they must be added together in order to determine whether the limit was exceeded. Cochran v. United
States, 157 U. S. 286, 295, 296, is cited, where it was held

CORSICANA NAT'L BANK v. JOHNSON.

68.

Opinion of the Court.

that the word "liabilities," as employed in § 5211, Rev.
Stats., included contingent liabilities. We do not regard
the case as controlling, because the purpose of that section,
and the language employed, differ materially from the
purpose and the language of the provision we are dealing
with. As to whether in § 5200 the words "the total
liabilities . . . of any person . . . for money
borrowed," etc., require the liability of a surety or of an
indorser for money borrowed by another to be added to his
direct liability for money borrowdd by himself in ascertaining whether the limit is exceeded-whatever view we
might entertain were the matter res nova-we are advised
that by the practice and administrative rulings of the
Comptroller of the Currency during a long period, if not
from the beginning of national banking, liabilities which
are incurred by one person avowedly and in fact as surety
or as indorser for money borrowed by another are not
included in the computation. We feel constrained to
accept this as a practical construction of the section. And
we are not prepared to say that in an action against a
director who knows and relies upon the fact that a particular obligation is signed by one merely as surety, although
not so described, the defendant may not be permitted to
show the truth.
(3) In view of certain contentions urged here in behalf
of defendant, and perhaps acceded to by the courts below, it should be said that the question whether defendant
knowingly participated in or assented to the making of a
loan in excess of the limit prescribed by § 5200 is not to be
confused by any consideration of the supposed standing
of the borrowers, personal or financial. The statutory
limit is a special safeguard prescribed by Congress for the
very purpose (among others) of preventing, undue reliance
upon the financial standing of borrowers. Nor would the
absence of any improper motive or a desire for personal
profit on defendant's part be a defense; nor the fact that

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.

Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

in spite of a loss upon this transaction the Bank remained
solvent or even prosperous. Neither is the question of
defendant's liability, or the extent of it, to be affected by
the fact, if it be a fact, that other officers or directors of the
Bank were in part responsible, yet defendant alone was
sued; nor that the Bank refrained from suing him until
after a change in the stockholding interest or control.
Again, in the absence of some special agreement-and
none such appears-it is immaterial whether the new
stockholders were aware of the excessive loan, or of defendant's alleged liability in the premises, at the time
they acquired their stock; or whether they possibly may
now profit by an increase in the value of the shares in the
event of a recovery against him.
It is clear from the language of § 5239, Rev. Stats., that
every director knowingly participating in or assenting to a
violation of an'y of the provisions of the act is"liable in his
personal and individual'capacity," without regard to the
question whether other directors likewise are liable. The
violation is in the nature of a tort, and the party injured
may sue one or several of the joint participants. Bigelow
v. Old Dominion Copper Co., 225 U. S. 111, 132. And the
liability extends to "all damages which the association,
its shareholders, or any other person, shall have sustained
in consequence of such violation." In the present action
the Bank represents the interest of its shareholders, as
well as of its creditors; and if there was a violation of the
act by defendant, with resulting diminution of its assets,
the Bank is entitled to recover the damages thus sustained,
notwithstanding it remained solvent, and irrespective of
any changes in its stockholding interest or control occurring between the time the cause of action arose and the
time of the commencement of the suit or of the trial. Even
if it appeared that new stockholders acquired their interests with knowledge of the fact that such a loss had been
sustained and that defendant was responsible for it,

CORSICANA NAT'L BANK v. JOHNSON.
68.

Opinion of the Court.

neither they nor the Bank would be thereby estopped
from having full recovery from defendant. There is no
reason in the law to disentitle a purchaser of shares from
even relying upon the responsibility of directors to make
good previous losses as an element adding intrinsic value
to the shares. Compare Bigelow v. Old Dominion Copper
Co., 74 N. J. Eq. 457, 500.
(4) Defendant, among other defenses, pleaded the
two-year statute of limitations of the State of Texas.
Plaintiff demurred on the ground that this limitation was
not a bar; and also replied setting up certain facts that
need not now be recited. The demurrer was overruled.
The provisions of the Texas statutes upon the subject
are Vernon's Sayles' Tex. Civ. Stats., 1914, Arts. 5687,
5688, and 5690, set forth in the margin.'
'Article 5687.-There shall be commenced and prosecuted within
two years after the cause of action shall have accrued, and not afterward, all actions or suits in court of the following description:
1. Actions for trespass for injury done to the estate or the property
of another.
2. Actions for detaining the personal property of another, and for
converting such personal property to one's own use.
3. Actions for taking or carrying away the goods and chattels of another.
4. Actions for debt where the indebtedness is not evidenced by a contract in writing.
5. Actions upon stated or open accounts, other than such mutual
and current accounts as concern the trade of merchandise between
merchant and merchant, their factors or agents. In all accounts,
except those between merchant and merchant, as aforesaid, their
factors and agents, the respective times or dates of the delivery of the
several articles charged shall be particularly specified, and limitations
shall run against each item from the date of such delivery, unless otherwise specially contracted.
6. Action for injury done to the person of another.
7. Action for injury done to the person of another where death
ensued from such injury; and the cause of action shall be considered as
having accrued at the death of the party injured.
Article 5688.-There shall be commenced and prosecuted within

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

In our opinion, the action is not one of the kinds specified in Art. 5687, to which the two-year limitation applies,
but is within the general description of Art. 5690 and
subject only to the limitation of four years. Hence the
limitation pleaded was no defense; and it is not contended
that there was any basis in fact for pleading the four-year
limitation.
(5) Assuming the Fleming and Templeton notes were
found to represent an excessive loan, knowingly participated in or assented to by defendant as a director of the
Bank, in our opinion the cause of action against him
accrued on or about June 10, 1907, when the Bank through
his act parted with the money loaned, receiving in return
only negotiable paper that it could not lawfully accept
because the transaction was prohibited by § 5200, Rev.
Stats. The damage as well as the injury was complete at
that time, and the Bank was not obliged to await the
maturity of the notes, because immediately it became
the duty of the officers or directors who knowingly participated in making the excessive loan to undo the wrong
done by taking the notes off the hands of the Bank and
restoring to it the money that had been loaned. Of
four years after the cause of action shall have accrued, and not afterward, all actions or suits in court of the following description:
1. Actions for debt where the indebtedness is evidenced by or
founded upon any contract in writing.
2. Actions for the penalty or for damages on the penal clause of a
bond to convey real estate.
3. Actions by one partner against his co-partner for a settlement of
the partnership accounts, or upon mutual and current accounts concerning the trade of merchandise between merchant and merchant,
their factors or agents; and the cause of action shall be considered as
having accrued on a cessation'of the dealings in which they were interested together.
Article 5690.-Every action other than for the recovery of real
estate, for which no limitation is otherwise prescribed, shall be brought
within four years next after the right to bring the same shall have
accrued, and not afterward.

CORSICANA NAT'L BANK v. JOHNSON.
68.

Opinion of the Court.

course, whatever of value the Bank recovered from the
borrowers on account of the loan would go in diminution
of the damages; but the responsible officials would have
no right to require the Bank to pursue its remedies against
the borrowers or await the liquidation of their estates.
The liability imposed by the statute upon the director is a
direct liability, not contingent or collateral.
(6) The question is raised whether the entire sum
loaned, plus interest and less salvage, should be treated as
damages sustained by the Bank through the violation of
the provisions of § 5200, Rev. Stats.-assuming it be
found that defendant did knowingly violate them-or
whether only the excess above what lawfully might have
been loaned (presumably $20,000) should be so regarded.
We assume that if, in good faith and in the ordinary
course of business, defendant had made a loan of $20,000
to Fleming and Templeton, and if while this loan remained
unpaid he had afterwards and as a separate transaction
unlawfully loaned them an additional $10,000, in excess
of the limit, the damage legally attributable to his violation of the limiting provision would have been but $10,000.
But that is not this case. According to the evidence, the
$30,000 less discount was paid out by the Bank as a single
payment; and if the jury found it to have been loaned in
excess of the statutory limit (whether in form one loan or
two) it must be upon the ground that it was a single transaction. That being so, it would follow that the entire
amount disbursed by the Bank was disbursed in violation
of the law. The cause of action against a director knowingly participating in or assenting to such excessive loan
would be complete at that moment,,and entire; there would
be no legal presumption that the borrowers would have accepted a loan within the limit, if their application for the excessive loan had been refused; nor that a director who in
fact violated his duty as defined by law would, if mindful of
it, have loaned them even $20,000. To mitigate in his favor

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

the damages resulting from a breach of his statutory duty
by resorting to the- hypothesis that if he had not disregarded the law in this respect he would have pursued a
different course of action within the law, would be an
unwarranted resort to fiction in aid of a wrongdoer, and
at the expense of the party injured. Hence, the entire
excessive loan would have to be regarded as the basis for
computing the damages of the Bank.
(7) In behalf of defendant it is insisted that, assuming
the loan was excessive, no loss accrued to the Bank by
reason of it, because the Fleming and Templeton notes
and indebtedness were transferred to the loan company
February 12, 1908, for a cash consideration equivalent
to their face value less interest to maturity.
Plaintiff in error contends that the Bank and the loan
company were so identical in ownership and united in
management that the latter was but the alter ego of the
former, and a loss to the loan company on the notes was
the same as a loss to the Bank, not only practically but in
contemplation of law. On the other hand, the argument
of defendant in error regards the two corporations as if
they were wholly independent; treats the transfer of the
notes from the Bank to the' loan company, in February,
1908, as valid and the money or credit contemporaneously
transferred to the Bank like money coming from an outside party; and looks upon the r'transfer in January, 1910,
as voluntary on the part of the Bank and an unnecessary
assumption of a loss that otherwise it had escaped.
We cannot accede to either contention in the extreme.
Because the Bank and the loan company were distinct
legal organizations, operating under separate charters
derived from different sources, and possessing independent
powers and privileges, we are constrained to hold that,
notwithstanding the identity of stock ownership and
their close affiliation in management, for some purposes
they must be regarded as separate corporations, for

CORSICANA NAT'L BANK v. JOHNSON.

68.

Opinion of the Court.

instance, as being capable in law of contracting with each
other. See Nashua Railroad v. Lowell Railroad, 136 U. S.
356, 372, 373, 375, et seq. But in considering the practical
effect of such inter-corporate dealings, especially as bearing upon the duties of the common directors and the
authority of the stockholders to control them, we need not
and ought not to overlook the identity of stock ownership.
Thus, the transfer of the notes in February, 1908, from
the Bank to the loan company, in consideration of their
full face value ostensibly or actually paid by the company
to the Bank, evidently could have no effect in relieving the
stockholding interest from loss, since each stockholder
of one corporation had a corresponding interest in the
stock of the other, and'any theoretical saving that accrued
to him as a stockholder of the Bank was balanced by a
corresponding loss sustained in his capacity as a stockholder of the company. At the same time the stockholders
in reviewing that transaction might lawfully and properly
base their action upon all the facts of the situation;
recognizing the legal separateness of the corporations as
existing in order to test the validity of the transfer and the
feasibility of setting it aside without litigation, while
giving effect to their community of interest in deciding
whether this should be done, and, if so, then in what
manner and upon what terms.
(8) Regarding the -two corporations as legally separate,
and ignoring for the moment the community of stockholding interest, it is plain that the transaction of February 12, 1908, in which the Bank sold the Fleming and
Templeton notes and indebtedness to the loan company
for their full face value, was prima facie tantamount to a
satisfaction of the damages that the Bank had sustained
by reason of the excessive loan; but that it had this effect
only provided the transaction 'was good and valid as
against the loan company and its stockholders, or was
duly ratified by them. For if it was invalid, or was made

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

under circumstances rendering it voidable by the loan
company, or the stockholders, neither the Bank nor
defendant was entitled to have the transaction stand for
their benefit; and if in fact it was avoided for good cause,
the Bank would be entitled to its action against defendant
t!ie same as if the annulled transaction never had occurred.
Was there good cause for the rescission?. The fact that
the same persons were directors and managers of both
corporations subjects their dealings inter sese to close
scrutiny. That two corporations have a majority or
even the whole membership of their boards of directors in
common does not necessarily render transactions between
them void; but transactions resulting from the agency of
officers or directors acting at the sdme time for both must
be deemed presumptively fraudulent unless expressly
authorized or ratified by the stockholders; and certainly
where the circumstances show, as by the undisputed
evidence they tended to show in this case, that the transaction would be of great advantage to one corporation at
the expense of the other, especially where in addition to
this the personal interests of the directors or any of them
would be enhanced at the expense of the stockholders, the
transaction is voidable by the stockholders within a
reasonable time after discovery of the fraud. Twin-Lick
Oil Co. v. Marbury, 91 U. S. 587, 589; Wardell v. Railroad
Company, 103 U. S. 651, 657, et seq.; Thomas v. Brownmlle,
&c. R. R. Co., 109 U. S. 522, 524; Richardson v. Green,
133.U. S. 30, 43;. McGourkey v. Toledo & Ohio Ry. Co., 146
U. S. 536, 552, 565.
The evidence having tended to show a transfer of the
notes in question from the Bank to the loan company
"without recourse," for a consideration equivalent to
their full face value, after the insolvency of the makers had
been brought to light, with resulting discredit of the notes
as marketable paper and probable inability of the makers
to pay them; a transaction carried out by directors and

CORSICANA NAT'L BANK v. JOHNSON.
68.

91

Opinion of the Court.

officers who acted as agents or trustees for both corporations, and one at least of whom, as the jury might find, was
subject to criticism from the Comptroller of the Currency,
and to an action at the suit of the Bank, for making an
excessive loan; it clearly was open to the jury to find that
the transfer was fraudulent as against the loan company,
and as against the stockholders of both companies. The
jury should have been instructed to this effect; and
further, that if they found the transfer to have been fraudulent, the stockholders had the right to rescind it within a
reasonable time after discovery of the fraud; and that if,
having such right, the stockholders of the loan company
asserted it and gave notice of its claim to the Bank in the
manner shown by the minutes, and the Bank recognizing
and acknowledging the justness of the claim restored to
the loan company what was accepted as the equivalent in
value of that which the Bank had received in the transaction of February, 1908, this was not to be regarded as a
voluntary or unnecessary assumption of loss by the Bank,
but on the contrary the result, so far as defendant was
concerned, was the same as if by court decree, in a suit
brought by the loan company, or by the stockholders, the
Bank had been compelled to make such restitution; and
that thereafter the rescinded transaction could not be
regarded as amounting, even in form of law, to a satisfaction of the damages sustained by the Bank as a result
of the Fleming and Templeton loan.
So far as the evidence showed, neither the stockholders
of the loan company, nor indeed its board of directors,
ever expressly ratified or affirmed the transfer. Nor does
it appear that there was any unreasonable delay on the
part of the stockholders in taking action to set it aside
after they had become aware of the circumstances; such
delay as there was the Bank waived, as it had a right to do;
and defendant does not appear to have changed his
position or to have been prejudiced by reason of it.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

Assuming, in defendant's favor, that because the corporations were legally separate they could not undo the
transaction of February, 1908, without formal corporate
action, the procedure adopted was sufficient for the
purpose. It is objected that the personnel of the boards
was changed for the very purpose of accomplishing the
rescission, and that the new members were mere figureheads or dummies for the controlling stockholders and had
no bona fide stock of their own. But if the transaction of
1908 was a fraud as against the loan company, and done
without authority of the stockholders, they were quite
within their rights in acting through dummies if necessary
in order to set it aside. We do not think it was necessary
to change the membership of the boards; similar action
by boards having identical membership would have had
the same effect, if done by the express authority of the
stockholders in order to undo an improper and unlawful
act of former directors injurious to their interests.
It is said that the rescission was put through in order to
enable the Bank to bring the present action against defendant. But it was not done to build up a'ground of action
against him, for this arose if at all prior to February 12,
1908, the damage to the Bank being sustained when with
his participation and assent its money was paid to Fleming
and Templeton in June, 1907, for promissory notes that
the Bank could not lawfully take. Defendant's liability
to the Bank, if he was liable, was direct and primary, and
to it the notes occupied the status of collateral security.
Had the disposition made of them in February, 1908, been
valid and unassailable, it would have borne the appearance
of a satisfaction of the damages only because the two
corporations were legally separate; but in substance, so
far as the stockholders were concerned, it would have
satisfied nothing because it merely transferred money to
them in one capacity by taking it from them in another.
Defendant had no right to have the transaction remain

CORSICANA NAT'L BANK v. JOHNSON.
68.

Opinion of the Court.

in effect as a screen to protect him from suit by the Bank
under § 5239, Rev. Stats. So far as it may be supposed
to have protected him while it remained unrescinded, the
result was entirely gratuitous, no consideration having
proceeded from him in the matter. Indeed, if his act in
shifting the discredited loan was done in part to give him
immunity from such an action as the present, this would
furnish an additional ground entitling the stockholders to
set the transfer aside. And if, either on this ground, or on
the ground that the transfer was put through for the
advantage of one corporation at the expense of the other
by officers or directors acting at the same time for both
and without the authority of the stockholders, the transaction was voidable by the stockholders and they resolved to avoid it, it would shvor of absurdity to sustain
defendant's contention that this was done in order to
enable the Bank to sue him; for of course they would have
the right to do it for that very purpose.
(9) In defendant's behalf it is insisted that at the time
of the proceedings of January, 1910, the value of* the
cotton mill property was much less than $65,000, so that
in the exchange made the Bank in effect parted with
little or no value for the return to it of the Fleming and
Templeton notes and indebtedness. But for reasons
already sufficiently indicated, we are of opinion that
defendant is not entitled to raise an inquiry into the value
of this property, as bearing either upon the question of the
Bank's right of action against him or upon the question of
damages. If the loan company or the stockholders had
good ground for rescinding the 1908 transaction, and this
was done pursuant to their resolution, they might waive
a return of the precise consideration and accept such
equivalent in exchange as to them seemed proper. Because of the identity of the stockholding interest the
transaction, even while it stood, was, as we have shown,
only a pseudo-satisfaction of the Bank's loss in the Flem-

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

ing and Templeton loan; and when the real parties affected
by this loss undertook on just grounds to set aside the
transfer of the notes, and took such proceedings through
action of the two corporations as were necessary for that
purpose, they had a right to recognize the community of
interest in settling the terms upon which this should be
done; and defendant has no standing to complain.
If there be a seeming inconsistency in sustaining a
rescission of the 1908 transaction avowedly based upon
the ground that the loan company had unjustly been
subjected to a loss therein, while at the same time we treat
as unimportant the question whether upon such rescission
full restitution was made to that company, it should be
said that we treat it as unimportant only so far as defendant is concerned; and if there be inconsistency it is no
more than corrective of the unreality of the 1908 transaction itself. It is defendant who invokes that transaction as an -actual realization by the Bank of full value
through a sale of the notes that it held as collateral security
for its claim against him. If, regarding it as an actual
sale, it was voidable because done by agents acting at the
same time in a dual capacity or for other reasons, he cannot
complain that the parties entitled to avoid it treated it as
actual for the purpose of setting it aside, and in the consequent readjustment recognized a substantial identity of
interest between seller and purchaser in the rescinded
transaction that rendered it hardly an actual sale. For,
to the extent that the sale was a sham, there was no
realization by the Bank upon the collateral security and
hence no satisfaction of the damages claimed against him.
The judgment under review must be reversed, to the
end that there may be a new trial in accordance with the
views above expressed.
Judgment reversed, and the cause remanded to the District
Court for further proceedings in conformity with this
opinion.

