CASES ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.

UNITED STATES v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC COMPANY ET AL.
APPEAL FROM

THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 179.

Argued March 5, 6, 1919.-Decided November 17, 1919.

Lands valuable for oil and known to be so at the time of their selection
by and patent to the Southern Pacific Railroad Company under the
granting Act of July 27, 1866, c. 278, 14 Stat. 292, were excepted from
the grant as, mineral lands; and a patent for such lands, issued in
reliance upon representations that the lands were not mineral, made
by the company's officials when they believed the fact was otherwise, is subject to be set aside in a suit by the United States.
Pp. 7 et seq.
In order to establish the character of lands, in this connection, as lands
valuable for oil, it is not necessary that they shall have been demonstrated to be certainly such by wells actually drilled thereon and producing oil in paying quantities after a considerable period of pumping; it suffices if the conditions known at the time of patent, as to the
geology, adjacent discoveries, and other indicia upon which men prudent and experienced in such matters are shown to be accustomed to
act and make large expenditures, were such as reasonably to engender the belief that the lands contained oil of such quality and in
such quantity as would render its extraction profitable and justify
expenditures to that end. P. 12.
In this case the conditions evincing oil value in this sense persisted

(1)

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Argument for Appellees.

251 U. S.

after the date of patent; and the court therefore does not consider
the question whether, if such conditions were proven illusory by
subsequent drilling, the demonstration would support the patent.
P. 14.
A report of a special agent that lands embraced in a railroad selection
were non-mineral, but made in another connection and not relied
on by the railroad company in renewing the selection or considered
by the land officers in approving it and issuing patent, can not avail
against proof that the lands were known by the company to be valuable for oil; nor is it of value as evidence of their non-mineral character if based on a superficial examination by one who was neither
a geologist nor familiar with oil-mining. Id.
249 Fed. Rep. 785, reversed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. J. Crawford Biggs, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, and Mr. Assistant Attorney General Kearful for
the United States.
Mr. Charles R. Lewers, with whom Mr. William F.
Herrin and Mr. Joseph P. Blair were on the brief, for
appellees:
Opinion or surmise that oil might exist, at an unknown
depth, from four to ten miles from its nearest known
occurrence is not convincing proof that the conditions in
1904 "were plainly such as to engender the belief that the
land contained mineral deposits of such quality and in
such quantity as would render their extraction profitable
and justify expenditures to that end." Diamond Coal Co.
v. United States, 233 U. S. 236, 240.
The "belief" here referred to must be a belief practically tantamount in its effect to actual knowledge, that is,
a belief based on facts so complete as to exclude rational
doubt. Even actual knowledge (or such a fully warranted
belief) on the part of the railroad agents would not justify
the relief here asked by the Government if it went merely
to the existence of some oil somewhere within the area
sued for. This knowledge (or belief) must be shown to

UNITED STATES v. SOUTHERN PAC. CO.
1.

Argument for Appellees.

have also comprehended every element of location, quantity and quality which would have given this oil commercial availability and value under conditions then existing.
Without such knowledge there could be no fraud, that is,
there could be no consciousness that the Government was
being deprived of land which it ought to retain. The case
of the Government is based on a theory which leaves out
of consideration all questions of extent, position, availability or value of oil within the disputed areas. It frankly
attempts to obtain a decree on the ground that every acre
in suit has that nebulous thing termed an "oil value,';
that is, a speculative value, because the surroundings are
claimed to promise that perchance oil will be found somewhere in the Elk Hills.
If hope or suspicion that oil might be found somewhere
in the Elk Hills can give to the particular lands in suit the
requisite mineral character to warrant cancellation, the
railroad company may lose by judicial decree lands which
subsequent drilling may prove to fall unquestionably
within its grant. Such a result is hardly in accord with
equity.
Only those lands may be lawfully taken from the railroad company which were in fact mineral lands at the time
of patent. Burke v. Southern Pac.R.R. Co., 234 U. S. 669,
679-680; Davis v. Weibbold, 139 U. S. 507, 524; Deffeback
v. Hawke, 115 U. S. 392; Diamond Coal Co. v. United
States, 233 U. S. 236, 239.
It is fair to assume that in the use of the two terms
"mineral lands" and lands "not mineral" in the various
acts of Congress for the disposal of the public domain, all
public lands were intended to be described. "Mineral
lands" were those which could be acquired under the mining laws. Lands "not mineral" were disposed of by the
homestead, railroad, school and other "non-mineral"
grants. Cf. Benjamin v. Southern Pacific R. R. Co., 21
L. D. 390.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Argument for Appellees:

251 U. S.

But, if the present contention of the Government is
correct, there must be a third class not capable of disposal
under any law (see comment of Circuit Court of Appeals
on this, 249 Fed. Rep. 797). It is conceded that a mineral
patent would not issue for a single acre in the Elk Hills
on the showing of mineral made by the Government in
this case, because the evidence is not sufficient to prove
a discovery of mineral. Chrismanv. Miller, 197 U. S. 313.
If there was not a sufficient "discovery" of oil on these
lands to sustain a mining location, there obviously was not
a discovery of oil sufficient to establish 'them as actually
"valuable" oil lands. The word "discovery" in the mining laws means simply the ascertainment of the existence
of the mineral, its disclosure. Unless these lands were
known in 1904 to be actually valuable for the oil that was
in them, the Government suffered no legal damage by
their loss and the railroad company gained nothing not
due it under its contract. Without legal damage to the
Government there can be no relief on the ground of fraud.
Southern Development Co. v. Silva, 125 U. S. 247; United
States v. San Jacinto Tin Co., 125 U. S. 273, 285; United
States v. Stinson, 197 U. S. 200, 205.
The government case is founded entirely on the use of
the word "belief" by this court in the case of Diamond
Coal Co. v. United States, 233 U. S. 236, 239-240, without
recognition, apparently, of the fact that the context indicates that what was there meant by "belief" was a conviction resulting from evidence so full and definite that
it points with convincing force to a conclusion which
includes not only the fact of the existence of the mineral
but its extent and value as well. United States v. Beaman,
242 Fed. Rep. 876.
In the present case the mineral in question is oil, which
is notoriously uncertain in its occurrence, extent and
value as compared with coal; and the circumstances
were such that a belief that these were valuable oil lands

UNITED STATES v. SOUTHERN PAC. CO.
1.

Argument for Appellees.

could not have been a conviction that merchantable oil
existed.
The fact that mere "indications" of the existence of
oil are not proof of its existence or of its quantity or location has received judicial recognition on many occasions.
Brewster v. Lanyon Zinc Co., 140 Fed. Rep. 801, 806;
Nevada Sierra Oil Co. v. Home Oil Co., 98 Fed. Rep. 673,
675.
It is unsound to say that decisions under the mining law
are here inapplicable because that law requires ocular
demonstration of mineral in the land claimed. All that
the word "discovery" means in that law (Rev. Stats.,
ยง 2320) is ascertainment of the existence of the vein or
lode within the claim, and even in the case of a lode the
exposure to the eye may be elsewhere. Brewster v. Shoemaker, 28 Colorado, 176, 182. The statute concerning
placer claims makes no special requirement as to the actual
place of discovery. The special statute of 1897 for the
location of oil claims makes no change in this respect except the requirement that the proof show that the claim
is "chiefly valuable" for oil (29 Stat. 525). Under the
placer law it has been held that evidence of gold appearing
within the claim, held insufficient in itself to constitute a
discovery, might be supplemented by evidence showing
greater amounts of gold disclosed in adjacent ground.
These cases really hold that the evidence which actually
constituted the full discovery came from without the
claims. That such a condition might also exist as- to an
oil claim under exceptional facts is indicated by Nevada
Sierra Oil Co. v. Miller, 97 Fed. Rep. 681, 688, 689.
It is obvious that the practical question, with which the
mining law is alone concerned, is whether there is valuable
mineral within the claim. Evidence which certainly indicates this is discovery, no matter where the evidence is
found, and the word "discovered" is used in the mining
law in exactly the same sense in which it was used by this

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

court in the case of Deffeback v. Hawke, 115 U. S. 392, 404.
Mere indications do not suffice.
Cases arising under the mining laws, in which it is held
that oil is so uncertain in its occurrence and extent that
surrounding conditions do not prove a discovery, are
therefore directly in point. Chrisman v. Miller, 197 U. S.
313, 323; Miller v. Chrisman, 140 California, 444, 446;
Olive Land Co. v. Olmstead, 103 Fed. Rep. 568; United
States v. McCutchen, 238 Fed. Rep. 575, 591; Bay v. Oklahoma Oil Co., 13 Oklahoma, 425; Weed v. Snook, 144 California, 439; New England &c. Co. v. Congdon, 152
California, 211; McLemore v. Express Oil Co., 158 California, 559; Dughi v. Harkins, 2 L. D. 721; Hutton v. Forbes,
31 L. D. 325, 330; Southwestern Oil Co. v. 'Atlantic &c. Ry.
Co., 39 L. D. 335; Butte Oil Co., 40 L. D. 602.
That belief not based on clear demonstration is not
proof of mineral character, see also Iron Silver Mining
Co. v. Reynolds, 124 U. S. 374; Iron Silver Mining Co. v.
Mike & Starr Co., 143 U. S. 394; Sullivan v. Iron Silver
Mining Co., 143 U. S. 431.
Fraud cannot be predicated upon the expression of an
opinion concerning the existence of hidden mineral deposits. 2 Addison on Torts, Wood's ed., ยง 1186; Southern
Development Co. v. Silva, 125 U. S. 247, 252; Gordon v.
Butler, 105 U. S. 553; Holbrook v. Connor, 60 Maine, 578;
Synnott v. Shaughnessy, 130 U. S. 572.
MR.

JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

delivered the opinion of

the court.
This is a suit by the United States to cancel a patent
issued December 12, 1904, to the Southern Pacific Railroad Company for eight full and two partial sections of
land within the indemnity limits of the grant made to
that company by an act of Congress, c. 278, 14 Stat. 292,
it being charged in the bill that the railroad company

UNITED STATES v. SOUTHERN PAC. CO.
1.

Opinion of the Court.

fraudulently obtained the patent by falsely representing
to the Land Department that the lands were not mineral
but agricultural, when it was known that they were
mineral. From the evidence presented the District Court
found that the charge was true and entered a decree of
cancellation, and this was reversed by the Circuit Court
of Appeals, one judge dissenting. 249 Fed. Rep. 785.
"All mineral lands" other than those containing coal
or iron were excluded from the grant, and this exclusion
embraced oil lands. Burke v. Southern Pacific R. R. Co.,
234 U. S. 669, 676-679. As will be seen presently, there
can be no doubt that the patent was procured by representing that the lands were not mineral. Whether this
.representation was false turns upon the character of the
lands as known when the patent was sought and obtained.
If they then were known to be valuable for oil, as the
Government asserts they were, they were mineral in the
sense of the granting act.
To compensate for losses to the grant within its primary limits the railroad company was entitled to select
other lands of like area within the indemnity limits, approval by the Secretary of the Interior being essential to
passing the selections to patent. The established mode
of making the selections was by presenting at the local
land office selection lists designating the lands lost and
those selected, with supporting affidavits showing, among
other things, that the lands selected were of the character
contemplated, that is to say, were not mineral but agricultural. These lists and affidavits would then be examined in that office and in the General Land Office,
and ultimately the selections would be passed to the Secretary of the Interior for his action. That course was followed here.
The original list was presented November 14, 1903,
but it encountered obstacles which led to the presentation
of a substituted list covering the same lands on Septem-

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

ber 6, 1904. B6th lists were presented by the company's
land agent, Mr. Eberlein, and were accompanied by affidavits made by him stating that the lands selected "are
not interdicted mineral" but "are of the character contemplated by the grant" and that "he has caused" them
"to be carefully examined by the agents and employees
of said company as to their mineral or agricultural character, and that to the best of his knowledge and belief
none of the lands returned in said list are mineral lands."
In acting on the substituted list the officers of the Land
Department relied upon and gave effect to the statements in the supporting affidavits, and the selections were
accordingly approved and passed to patent.
. In truth Mr. Eberlein had not examined the lands or
caused them to be examined by others. Nor had any
examination of them been made on behalf of the railroad
company, save such as is inferable from the conduct of
its geologists and others presently to be noticed.
The lands were in the Elk Hills in Kern County, California; were rough, semi-arid and unfit for cultivation;
were devoid of timber, springs or running water, and had
but little value for grazing. Oil had been discovered in
that region as early as 1899 and this had been followed
by development and production on an extensive scale.
In 1903 and 1904 there were many producing wells about
25 miles to the east and many within a much shorter
distance to the west and south, some within three or four
miles. The railroad company was then maintaining a
corps of geologists-all informed by experience in the
California oil fields-and under their supervision was
searching for, developing and producing oil for fuel purposes. In 1902, upon the recommendation of one of its
geologists, it withdrew from sale many of its patented
lands surrounding and adjacent to those in suit "because
they were in or near oil territory"; and early in 1903
it entered upon a systematic examination of its lands in

UNITED STATES v. SOUTHERN PAC. CO.
1.

Opinion of the Court.

that territory "to determine as far as can be done from
surface indications and, geological structure where oil
is to be expected in this region." In a letter to Mr.
Kruttschnitt, one of the company's vice presidents, the
chief geologist said when about to take up the examination: "So far as I can judge from the trip I have just made
over this territory, this work promises results of greatest
value to the company."
The lands in suit were surveyed in 1901 and the approved plat was filed in the local land office in May, 1903.
The field notes denominated the lands as mineral and described them as in a mineral district "within which many
successful oil wells have been developed." As before
stated, the original selection list was presented November
14, 1903. Mr. Kruttschnitt already had written to the
company's attorney at Washington requesting that
''special attention" be given to securing a patent for the
lands when selected; and shortly thereafter Mr. Eberlein wrote to the attorney, saying: "I am particularly
anxious in regard to this list as the lands adjoin the oil
territory, and Mr. Kruttschnitt is very solicitous in regard to it." Other letters and telegrams show that this
special concern or anxiety persisted until the patent was
issued.
In 1903 the company concluded to lease such of its
lands as were considered "valuable for oil purposes"
to a subsidiary company which was to be a sort of fuel
department and to have charge of the development and
production of oil. The geologists were requested to designate the lands to be thus leased and as a result of their
investigation and recommendation several sections adjacent to and some immediately adjoining those in suit
were included. The lease was to be signed on behalf of
the railroad company by Mr. Eberlein as land agent and
was laid before him for that purpose on August 2, 1904.
Perceiving at once that its execution would not be in ac-

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

cord with his action in pressing the pending selection list
he took the matter up with some of his superiors. To one
he said in a letter: "We have selected a large body of
lands interspersed with the lands sought to be conveyed
by this lease, and which we have represented as nonmineral in character. Should the existence of this lease
become known it would go a long way toward establishing the mineral character of the lands referred to, and
which are still unpatented. We could not successfully
resist a mineral filing after we have practically established
the mineral character of the land. I would suggest delay
at least until this matter of patent can be adjusted."
To the same officer he protested against the action of the
geologists in examining unpatented lands because "it
was charging the company with notice." And to another,
in New York, he explained "all phases of the matter,"
with the result that the "impropriety of the lease at that
time" and the "very ambiguous position in which we
would be placed" were recognized and he was instructed
to withhold his signature and to place and keep all correspondence and papers relating to the lease in a separate
and private file not accessible to others. He followed the
instruction and the special or secret file remained in his
possession "until," as he testified, "it was pried out"
at the hearing.
But notwithstanding what was brought to his attention through the proposed oil lease, Mr. Eberlein continued actively to press the pending selection, and when,
about a month later, he presented the substituted selection list it was accompanied by affidavits wherein he repeated his prior representation that the lands were not
mineral. After presenting this list he had a conference
with the chief geologist which prompted the latter, when
writing to a superior officer, to explain that "for reasons
of policy regarding certain unpatented lands it will be
best not to execute the lease . . . at present."

UNITED STATES v. SOUTHERN PAC. CO.

1.

Opinion of the Court.

The lease was placed by Mr. Eberlein in the special or
secret file and some time afterward, when an effort was
made to find it, he denied all knowledge of it. The denial
was brought to the attention of the chief geologist, and
he at once wrote to Mr. Eberlein calling attention to the
conference just mentioned, and stating: "You explained
that you were rushing certain lands for final patent and
that the immediate execution of the lease showing our
idea of what were oil lands might interfere with you and
we agreed to defer the execution until that danger was
passed." The chief geologist was a witness at the hearing
and when asked what danger was meant, answered: "The
danger that these lands might be delayed and not be
patented because of their mineral character."
All that has been recited thus far is proved so well that
it is beyond dispute. Fairly considered, it shows that
when the patent was s6ught and obtained the lands had
no substantial value unless for, oil mining; that the interest and anxiety displayed by the company's officers in
securing the patent were wholly disproportionate to the
value of the lands for any other purpose; that the lands
lay within a recognized and productive oil region which the
company's geologists had been systematically examining
to determine in what lands oil was to be expected, and
that upon the advice and recommendation of its geologists
the company was treating and dealing with adjacent and
adjoining lands, of which it was the owner, as valuable for
oil. Of course among practical men the characterwhether oil or otherwise--of these adjacent and adjoining
lands had some bearing on the character of those in suit,
and this was given pointed recognition when the company's
officers halted the signing of the proposed oil lease pending action on the selection list and caused the correspondence and papers relating to the lease to be secreted in a
special and private file.
We think the natural, if not the only, conclusion from

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

all this is that in pressing the selection the officers of the
railroad company were not acting in good faith, but were
attempting to obtain the patent by representing that the
lands were not mineral when they believed the fact was
otherwise.
The observable geological and other physical conditions
at the time of the patent proceedings, as shown by the
evidence, were as follows: The area called the Elk Hills
was about six miles wide and fifteen long and constituted
an anticlinal fold or elongated dome-an occurrence
favorable to the accumulation and retention of oil. The
lands in suit were about its center. From five to ten
miles to the west was the Temblor Range, the main uplift of that region. Along the east flank of that uplift for a
distance of thirty miles was a series of outcrops or exposures of Monterey (diatomaceous) shales, the source
of oil in California, and porous sandstone in which oil
generally finds its ultimate reservoir. These strata were
of exceptional thickness and it was apparent that oil in
considerable quantity had been seeping or wasting from
the sandstone. The dip of the strata was towards the
Elk Hills and there were no indications of any faulting
or thinning in that direction. Between the outcrop and
the Elk Hills upwards of two hundred wells had found
the oil-bearing strata and were being profitably operated,
several of the wells being on a direct line towards the
lands in suit and within three or four miles of them. In
and beyond the Elk Hills were oil seepages and other
surface indications of the existence of oil in the underlying strata, one of the seepages being near the lands
in suit. Two wells had been sunk in the Elk Hills
but obviously had not gone to an adequate depth and
were not productive, although some oil was reached
by one.
Geologists and men of wide experience and success in
oil mining-all of whom had examined that territory and

UNITED STATES v. SOUTHERN PAC. CO.

13

C

1,

Opinion of the Court.

some of whom had been familiar with it for years-were
called as witnesses by the Government and gave it as
their opinion, having regard to the known conditions in
1903 and 1904, as just outlined, that the lands were valuable for oil, in that an ordinarily prudent man, understanding the hazards and rewards of oil mining and desiring to engage therein for profit, would be justified in
purchasing the lands for such mining and making the expenditures incident to theirk development, and in that a
competent geologist or expert in oil mining, if employed
to advise in the matter, would have ample warrant for
advising the purchase and expenditure.
Other geologists and oil operators, called by the company, gave it as their opinion that the lands were not,
under the conditions stated, valuable for oil; but as respects the testimony of some it is apparent that they were
indisposed to regard any lands as within that category
until they were demonstrated to be certainly such by
wells actually drilled thereon and producing oil in paying
quantities after a considerable period of pumping. This
is a mistaken test, in that it takes no account of geological
conditions, adjacent discoveries and other external conditions upon which prudent and experienced men in the
oil mining regions are shown to be accustomed to act and
make large expenditures. And the testimony of some of
these witnesses is weakened by the fact that their prior
acts in respect of these lands, or others in that vicinity
similarly situated, were not in accord with the opinions
which they expressed.
After considering all the evidence, we think it is adequately shown that the lands were known to be valuable
for oil when the patent was sought and obtained, and by
this we mean that the known conditions at that time were
such as reasonably to engender the belief that the lands
contained oil of such quality and in such quantity as
would render its extraction profitable and justify ex-

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

penditures to that end. See Diamond Coal Co. v. United
States, 233 U. S. 236.
The railroad company places some reliance on the fact
that after the presentation of the original selection list
and before the substituted one was tendered a special
agent of the General Land Office examined the lands and
reported them as non-mineral. But there is nothing in
this that can help the company. The agent's report was
made in another connection and was not considered by
the land officers when they approved the selection. It
did not relieve the company from showing that the lands
selected were not mineral; nor did the company understand that it had any such effect. Mr. Eberlein knew
of the report several months before he and other officers
of the company became troubled over the proposed oil
lease and concluded that, if given publicity, it would endanger the pending selection. Besides, if the report could
be considered here, it would be without any real evidential
value, for it appears from testimony given by the agent
at the hearing that he was not a geologist or familiar with
oil mining and that his examination of the lands was at
best only superficial.
The company makes the contention that drilling done
since the patent was issued has demonstrated that the
lands have no value for oil. Assuming, without so deciding, that the contention would help the company if
sustained by the evidence, we think it is not sustained.
The drilling relied upon was done after 1909 upon lands
in the Elk Hills other than those in suit. Several wells
were started and not more than three were successful.
The three were the only ones that were drilled in favorable locations and to an adequate depth, and they penetrated oil sands of considerable thickness and produced
a large quantity of oil, but were shut down for reasons
not made clear by the record. They were drilled by an oil
company which was controlled by the railroad company.

STROUD v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

1.

The other wells failed for reasons which prevent the outcome from having any significance here. In some the
drilling was not carried to an adequate depth because the
right to proceed was thought to be uncertain by reason of
an executive withdrawal of the lands.
We conclude that the application of prior decisions to
the case made by the evidence entitles the Government to
the relief sought, as was held by the District Court. See
United States v. Minor, 114 U. S. 233; McCaskill Co. v.
United States, 216 U. S. 504; Diamond Coal Co. v. United
States, supra; Washington Securities Co. v. United States,
234 U. S. 76.
Decree of Circuit Court of Appeals reversed.
Decree of District Court afirmed._

STROUD v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF KANSAS.

No. 276.

Argued October 22, 1919.-Decided November 24, 1919.

A verdict of guilty as charged in the indictment, under an indictment
charging murder in the first degree, is a conviction of murder in the
first degree, and no less so because the jury adds "without capital
punishment," as permitted by ยง 330 of the Criminal Code. P. 17.
And when a sentence to life imprisonment, based on such a verdict,
is reversed upon the defendant's application (the mandate calling for
further proceedings,) he is not placed twice in jeopardy, in violation
of the Fifth Amendment, when tried again, under the same indictment, found guilty as charged, but without qualification as to punishment, and sentenced to be hanged. Id.
Motions for change of venue and to quash the jury panel, in a capital
case, because of alleged local prejudice and of statements made to
the District Judge by counsel for the Government and of the judge's

