OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Syllabus.

251 U. S.

to do that which it has done, lured from patient methods
to speculative advertising in the hope of a speedy prosperity.
It must be admitted there was enticement to it and a
prospect of realization, and such was the view of the
District Court. The court was of opinion that a private
proprietor of the lands would without hesitation use their
revenues to advertise their advantage and that that which
was a wise administration of the property in him could
not reach the odious dereliction of a breach of trust in
the State.
The phrase, however, means no more in the present
case than that the United States, being the grantor of
the lands, could impose conditions upon their use, and
have the right to exact the performance of the conditions.
We need not extend the argument or multiply considerations. The careful opinion of the Circuit Court of Appeals has made it unnecessary. We approve, therefore,
its conclusion and affirm its decree.
Affirmed.

LIVERPOOL, BRAZIL & RIVER PLATE STEAM
NAVIGATION COMPANY v. BROOKLYN EASTERN DISTRICT TERMINAL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 81.

Argued November 14, 1919.-,Dccided December 8, 1919.

A steam tug, propelling, lashed to its sides, other vessels of the same
owner, in pursuit of the owner's business, brought one of them-a
float carrying the cargo-in collision with libelant's vessel. Held,
that under Rev. Stats., §§ 4283-4285, the value of the tug, and not
the value of the flotilla, was the limit of their owner's liability. P. 51.
250 Fed. Rep. 1021, affirmed.

LIVERPOOL &c. NAV. CO. v. BROOKLYN TERM'L. 49
48.

Argument for Petitioner.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Van Vechten Veeder, with whom Mr. Charles C.
Burlingham was on the brief, for petitioner:
The two tugs and the car float, physically united in
the performance, through the servants of a common
owner, of a common adventure, constitute in reality but
a single instrumentality and must all be surrendered as
a condition to the limitation of the owner's liability.
The Main v. Williams, 152 U. S. 122, 131. It would seem
to be too obvious for argument that the car float must be
surrendered. Apart from the fact that she was the vessel
which actually did the damage, she was the instrumentality by which the respondent undertook to perform the
service for which it was paid. It surely can make no difference in principle, for the purposes of the limitation
statute, whether cargo is carried in the hold of the same
vessel which contains the motive power of transportation,
or whether, as in this case, the motive power is in one
vessel and the cargo is towed in another. In both cases
the motive power and the hold are necessary instruments
of the transportation. So the tug, which was without
steam and was joined to the flotilla for the convenience
of the respondent, was, like the car float, also instrumental
in causing the collision, inasmuch as her presence as part
of the floating unit increased to that extent the difficulty
of navigating the flotilla, and added to that extent to its
momentum in the negligent course which brought about
the disaster. Thompson Towing. & Wrecking Assn. v.
McGregor, 207 Fed. Rep. 209; The Columbia, 73 Fed. Rep.
226; s. c., 90 Fed. Rep. 295; The San Rafael, 141 Fed.
Rep. 270; Shipowners' & Merchants' Tugboat Co. v. Hammond Lumber Co., 218 Fed. Rep. 161; The Bordentown, 40
Fed. Rep. 682, 687; The Anthracite, 162 Fed. Rep. 384, 388.
The W. 0. Mason, 142 Fed. Rep. 913, has been a source
of much confusion. It is undoubtedly true that the per-

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Argument for Petitioner.

251 U. S.

sonal liability of the owner is not a determining factor as
to the liability of a vessel in rem. We also agree that the
fact that the two vessels are to be regarded as one for
the purposes of a joint undertaking of their owner may
have no bearing upon the question of their respective
liabilities in rem. But neither of these considerations has
any bearing upon the question of what must be surrendered by a respondent as a condition of limiting his liability. There may be no liability whatever in rem, and yet
the shipowner may be entitled to limit his liability by
surrendering the vessel which was concerned in the disaster.
The actual decision in The W. 0. Mason, supra, was
simply that while the two tugs were engaged in towing
the steamship, they were acting in independent capacities.
This is made clear by a later decision of the same court
in The Anthracite, supra.
In The Transfer No. 21, 248 Fed. Rep. 459, the same
court considered for the first time a state of facts substantially similar to the case at bar, applying the principle underlying the action in rem to a limitation proceeding. The result is that in the Second Circuit the owner
of two or more vessels engaged for profit in a particular
adventure may limit his responsibility for the damage
done by them to the value of one. Although the liability
is said to be strictly as in rem, the result may be, as in
the case at bar, that the vessel which physically'did the
damage is not required to respond either in itself or
through its owner; while another vessel, which was not
actually in collision at all, is held solely liable for the fault
of its navigator. Yet, according to the same court's
decision in The Anthracite, supra, it is sufficient that the
navigator of a vessel is actually directing her movements;
it is not necessary that he shall be technically master,
or, indeed, aboard. But the master of a tug which has
a car float, without motive power, lashed by it, is cer-

LIVERPOOL &c. NAV. CO. v. BROOKLYN TERM'L.
48.

51

Opinion of the Court.

tainly the only person who has any control over its movements.
In The Eugene F. Moran, 212 U. S. 466, this court refused to extend the fiction of the personification of a vessel
to the situation where a tow was being navigated by 'an
independent contractor. Where, however, the two vessels, as tug and tow, belong to the same owner, the objection that an application of the fiction would result
in the taking of a man's property for the wrong of another does not apply; and there is good reason for holding
both his vessels liable for the damage occasioned-by the
wrongful manner in which he himself manages' his own
vessels where both are involved in the mismanagement.
Congress intended only to-protect an owner from losing
all his property in a single disaster. It limited his liability
to the property engaged in the adventure in which the
disaster occurred. It was clearly not the intention of
Congress. to single out a.particular portion of the property
engaged in an adventure and limit the owners' liability
to such portion.'
Mr. Samuel Park, with-whom Mr. Henry E. Mattison
was on the brief, for.respondent.
MR.JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a libel in admiralty brought by the petitioner
against the respondent for a collision with the petitioner's
steamship Vauban while it was moored at a pier in Brooklyn. The respondent does not deny liability but 'claims the
right to limit it under Rev. Stats.i §§ 4283, 4284 and'4285,
to the value of the vessel that caused the damage. The
moving cause was the respondent's steam tug Intrepid
which was proceeding up the East River, with a car float
loaded with railroad cars lashed to its port side and on its
starboard side a disabled tug, both belonging to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.

Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

respondent. By a stipulation dated August 3, 1917, it
was agreed that the damage sustained was $28,036.98
with $5,539.84 interest. The value of the tug Intrepid
was found to be $5,750, and the liability of the respondent
was limited by the District Court to that sum with interest. The Circuit' Court of Appeals affirmed the decree
without an opinion. 250 Fed. Rep. 1021; 162 C. C. A.
664. The case is brought here on the question whether
the value of the whole flotilla should not have been included in the decree.
The car float was the vessel that came into contact with
the Vauban, but as it was a passive instrument in the
hands of the Intrepid that fact does not affect the question of responsibility. The James Gray v. The John Fraser,
21 How. 184. The J. P. Donaldson, 167 U. S. 599, 603,
604. The Eugene F. Moran, 212 U. S. 466, 474, 475.
Union Steamship Co. v. Owners of the "Aracan," L. R. 6
P. C. 127. The rule is not changed by the ownership of
the vessels. The John G. Stevens, 170 U. S. 113, 123.
The W. G. Mason, 142 Fed. Rep. 913, 917. 212 U. S. 466,
475. L. R. 6 P. C. 127, 133. These cases show that for
the purposes of liability the passive instrument of the
harm does not become one with the actively responsible
vessel by being attached to it. If this were a proceeding
in rem, it may be assumed that the car float and disabled
tug would escape, and none the less that they were lashed
to the Intrepid and so were more helplessly under its
control than in the ordinary case of a tow.
It is said, however, that when you come to limiting
liability the foregoing authorities are not controllingthat the object of the statute is "to limit the liability of
vessel owners to their interest in the adventure," The Main
v. Williams, 152 U. S. 122, 131, and that the same reason
that requires the surrender of boats and apparel requires
the surrender of the other instrumentalities by means of
which the tug was rendering the services for which it

LIVERPOOL &c. NAV. CO. v. BROOKLYN TERM'L. 53
48.

Opinion of the Court.

was paid. It can make no difference, it is argued, whether
the cargo is carried in the hold of the tug or is towed in
another vessel. But that is the question, and it is not
answered by putting it. The respondent answers the
argument with the suggestion that if sound it applies a
different rule in actions in personam from that which,
as we have said, governs suits in rem. Without dwelling
upon that, we are'of opinion that the statute does not
warrant the distinction for which the appellant contends.
The statute follows the lead of European countries,
as stated in The Main v. Williams, 152 U. S. 122, 126, 127.
Whatever may be the doubts as to the original grounds
for limiting liability to the ship or with regard to the historic starting point for holding the ship responsible as a
moving cause, The Blackheath, 195 U. S. 361, 366, 367,
it seems a permissible conjecture that both principles,
if not rooted in the same conscious thought, at least were
influenced by the same semi-conscious attitude of mind.
When the continental law came to be followed by Congress, no doubt, alongside of the desire to give our shipowners a chance to compete with those of Europe, there
was in some sense an intent to limit liability to the venture, but such a statement gives little help in deciding
where the line of limitation should be drawn. No one,
we presume, would contend that other unattached vessels,
belonging if you like to the same owner, and cooperating
to the same result with the one in fault, would have to be
surrendered. Thompson Towing & Wrecking Assn. v.
McGregor, 207 Fed. Rep. 209, 212-214. The Sunbeam,
195 Fed. Rep. 468, 470. The W. G. Mason, 142 Fed. Rep.
913, 919. The notion as applicable to a collision case
seems to us to be that if you surrender the offending vessel
you are free, just as it was said by a judge in the time of
Edward III, "If my dog kills your sheep and I freshly
after the fact tender you the dog you are without recourse
against me." Fitz. Abr., Barre, 290. The words of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Syllabus.

251 U. S.

statute are "The liability of the owner of any vessel for
any . . . injury by collision . . . shall in no
case exceed the amount or value of the interest of such
owner in such vessel." The literal meaning of the sentence
is reinforced by the words "in no case." For clearly the
liability would be made to exceed the interest of the
owner "in such vessel" if you said frankly, In some cases
we propose to count other vessels in although they are
not "such vessel"; and it comes to the same thing when
you profess a, formal compliance with the words but
reach the result by artificially construing "such vessel"
to include other vessels if only they are tied to it. Earlier
cases in the Second Circuit had disposed of the question
there, and those in other circuits for the most part if not
wholly are reconcilable with them. We are. of opinion
that the decision was right. The Transfer No. 21, 248
Fed. Rep. 459. The W. G. Mason, 142 Fed. Rep. 913.
The Erie Lighter 108, 250 Fed. Rep. 490, 497, 498. Van
Eyken v. Erie R. Co., 117 Fed. Rep. 712, 717.
Decree affirmed.

CHICAGO, ROCK ISLAND & PACIFIC RAILWAY
COMPANY v. COLE, ADMINISTRATRIX OF
ROBERTS, ETC.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OKLAHOMA.
No. 290.

Motion to dismiss or affirm submitted November 17, 1919.Decided December 8, 1919.

The Federal Constitution does not prevent the States from leaving
the defense of contributory negligence to the jury in all cases, those
in which it is a mere question of law as well as those in which it is
a question of fact. P. 55.
Oklahoma Constitution, Art. 23, § 6, sustained on this point.
74 Oklahoma, -, affirmed.

