OCTO3ER TIERM, 1919.
Syllabus.

251 U. S.

BATES, RECEIVER OF THE NATIONAL CITY
BANK OF CAMBRIDGE,. MASSACHUSETTS, v.
DRESSER, ADMINISTRATOR OF DRESSER.
DRESSER, ADMINISTRATOR OF DRESSER, v.
BATES, 'RECEIVER OF THE NATIONAL CITY
BANK OF CAMBRIDGE, MASSACHUSETTS.
BATES, RECEIVER OF THE NATIONAL CITY
BANK OF CAMBRIDGE, MASSACHUSETTS, v.
DEAN, EXECUTOR OF GALE, ET AL.
BATES, RECEIVER OF THE NATIONAL CITY
BANK OF CAMBRIDGE, MASSACHUSETTS, v.
BUNKER ET AL., ADMINISTRATORS, ETC., OF
RICHARDSON.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIRST CIRCUIT.

Ncs. 155-158.

Argued January 19, 20, 1920.-Decided March 1, 1920.

The degree of care required of directors of a national bank depends
upon the subject to which it is to be applied, and each case is to be
determined in view of all the circumstances. P. 529. Briggs v.
Spaulding, 141 U. S. 132.
The bookkeeper of a national bank during a series of years defrauded
it of an amount aggregating more than its capital and more than the
normal average amount of its deposits, by a novel scheme involving
exchanges of his personal checks on the bank for checks of an outsider on another bank, cashing of the checks outside, abstraction by
the bookkeeper of his own checks when returned to his bank with
clearing-house statements which were settled by the cashier, and
falsification of the deposit ledger, kept by the bookkeeper, so as to
conceal the transactions by false charges against deposits and false
additions of the totals, diminishing the apparent liability to depositors. The fraud could have been discovered by the cashier if he had

BATES v. DRESSER.
524.

Counsel for Parties.

himself taken and examined checks as they came from the clearing
house or had carefully examined the multitudinous figures of the
deposit ledger or called in and compared with it the depositors' passbooks, but he negligently over-trusted the bookkeeper and made his
statements to the directors accordingly. Semi-annual examinations
by national bank examiners revealed nothing wrong, and wrong was
nof suspected, the seeming shrinkage of deposits being attributed to
innocent causes.
Held: (1) That directors, serving gratuitously, who were without
knowledge of the cashier's negligence or of the possibility of such a
fraud, and who had assurance from the-president, as from the bank
examiners' reports, were not negligent in accepting the cashier's
statements of liabilities, like his statements of assets, which always
were correct; and-were not bound to inspect the depositors' ledger or
call in the pass-books and compare them with it; although there was a
by-law, nearly obsolete, calling for examinations by a committee
semi-annually. P. 529.
(2) That the president, who, besides being a large depositor, was
habitually at the bank, in control of its affairs, with immediate
access to the depositors' ledger, and who had received certain warnings that the bookkeeper was living fast and dealing in stocks, was
guilty of negligence in failing to make an examination. P. 530.
One who accepts the presidency of a national bank accepts responsibility for any losses the bank may suffer through his fault. P. 531.
Interest upon the amount of a decree for such damages may be awarded
as a matter of discretion, not of right. Id.
Interest allowed in this case, from the date of the decree in the District
Court until the date when the judgment creditor (receiver of the
bank) interposed delay by appealing to this court. Id.
250 Fed. Rep. 525, modified and affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Frank N. Nay, with whom Mr. William A. Kneeland was on the brief, for appellant in Nos. 155, 157, 158,

and appellee in No. 156.
Mr. Robert G. Dodge, with whom Mr. Robert M. Morse,
Mr. Paul Dudley Dean, Mr. John B. Sullivan, Jr., and
Mr. Harold S. Davis were on the brief, for appellant in

No. 156 and appellees in Nos. 1.55, 157.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

Mr. Clarence Alfred Bunker for appellees in No. 158.
Mr. Albert E. Pillsbury, with whom Mr. Arthur P.
French was on the brief, for Barber, appellee in No. 157.
MR.
court.

JUSTICE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the

This is a bill in equity brought by the receiver of a national bank to charge its former president and directors
with the loss of a great part of its assets through the
thefts of an employee of the bank while they were in
power. The case was sent to a master who found for the
defendants; but the District Court entered a decree against
all of them. 229 Fed. Rep. 772. The Circuit Court of
Appeals reversed this decree, dismissed the bill as against
all except the administrator of Edwin Dresser, the president, cut down the amount with which he was charged
and refused to add interest from the date of the decree of
the District Court. 250 Fed. Rep. 525. 162 C. C. A. 541.
Dresser's administrator and the receiver both appeal, the
latter contending that the decree of the District Court
should be affirmed with interest and costs.
The bank was a little bank at Cambridge with a capital
of $100,000 and average deposits of somewhere about
$300,000. It had a cashier, a bookkeeper, a teller and a
messenger. Before and during the time of the losses
Dresser was its president and executive officer, a large
stockholder, with an inactive deposit of from $35,000 to
$50,000. From July, 1903, to the end, Frank L. Earl was
cashier. Coleman, who made the trouble, entered the
service of the bank as messenger in September, 1903. In
January, 1904, he was promoted to be bookkeeper, being
then not quite eighteen but having studied bookkeeping.
In the previous August an auditor employed on the retirement of a cashier had reported that the daily balance
book was very much behind, that it was impossible to

BATES v. DRESSER.
524.

Opinion of the Court.

prove the deposits, and that a competent bookkeeper
should be employed upon the work immediately, Coleman
kept the deposit ledger and this was the work that fell into
his hands. There was no cage in the bank, and in 1904
and 1905 there were some small shortages in the accounts
of three successive tellers that were not accounted for, and
the last of them, Cutting, was asked by Dresser to resign
on that ground. Before doing so he told Dresser that
someone had taken the money and that if he might be
allowed to stay he would set a trap and catch the man,
but Dresser did not care to do that and thought that there
was nothing wrong. From Cutting's resignation on
October 7, 1905, Coleman acted as paying and receiving
teller, in addition to his other duty, until November, 1907.
During this time there were no shortages disclosed in the
teller's accounts. In May, 1906, Coleman took $2,000
cash from the vaults of the bank, but restored it the next
morning. In November of the same year he began the
thefts that come into question here. Perhaps in the
beginning he took the money directly. But as he ceased to
have charge of the cash in November, 1907, he invented
another way. Having a small account at the bank, he
would draw checks for the amount he wanted, exchange
checks with a Boston broker, get cash for the broker's
check, and, when his own check came to the bank through
the clearing house, would abstract it from the envelope,
enter the others on his book and conceal the difference by
a charge to some other account or a false addition in the
column of drafts or deposits in the depositors' ledger. He
handed to the cashier only the slip from the clearing house
that showed the totals. The cashier paid whatever appeared to be due and thus Coleman's checks were honored.
So far as Coleman thought it necessary, in view of the
absolute trust in him on the part of all concerned, he took
care that his balances should agree with those in the
cashier's book.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

By May 1,,1907, Coleman had abstracted $17,000, concealing the fact by false additions in the column of total
checks, and false balances in the deposit ledger. Then for
the moment a safer concealment was effected by charging
the whole to Dresser's account. Coleman adopted this
method when a bank examiner was expected. Of course
when the fraud was disguised by overchaiging a depositor it could not be discovered except by calling in the
pass-books, or taking all the deposit slips and comparing
them with the depositors' ledger in detail. By November,
1907, the amount taken by Coleman was $30,100. and
the charge on Dresser's account was $20,000. In 1908 the
sum was raised from $33,000 to $49,671. In. 1909 Coleman's activity began to increase. In January he took
$6,829.26; in March, $10,833.73; in June, his previous
stealings amounting to $83,390.94, he took $5,152.06; in
July, $18,050; in August, $6,250; in September, $17,350;
in October, $47,277.08; in November, $51,847; in December, $46,956.44; in January, 1910, $27,395.53; in February,
$6,473.97; making a total of $310,143.02, when the bank
closed on February 21, 1910. As a result of this the
amount of the monthly deposits seemed to decline noticeably and the directors considered the matter in September, 1909, but concluded that the falling off was due in
part to the springing up of rivals, whose deposits were increasing, but was parallel to a similar decrease in New
York. An examination by a bank examiner in December,
1909, disclosed nothing wrong to him.
In this connection it should be mentioned. that in the
previous semi-annual examinations by national bank
examiners nothing was discovered pointing to malfeasance.
The cashier was honest and everybody believed that they
could rely upon him, although in fact he relied too much
upon Coleman, who also was unsuspected by all. If
Earl had opened the envelopes from the clearing house,
and had seen the checks, or had examined the deposit

BATES v. DRESSER.
524.

Opinion of the Court.

ledger with any care he would have found out what was
going on. The scrutiny of anyone accustomed to such
details would have discovered the false additions and
other indicia of fraud that were on the face of the book.
But it may be doubted whether anything less than a continuous pursuit of the figures through pages would have
done so except by a lucky chance.
The question of the liability of the directors in this case
is the question whether they neglected their duty by accepting the cashier's statement of liabilities and failing to
inspect the depositors' ledger. The statements of assets
always were correct. A by-law that had been allowed to
become obsolete or nearly so is invoked as establishing
their own standard of conduct. By that a committee was
to be appointed every six months "to examine into the
affairs of the bank, to count its cash, and compare its
assets and liabilities with the balances on the general
ledger, for the purpose of ascertaining whether or not the
books are correctly kept, and the condition of the bank
is in a sound and solvent condition." Of course liabilities
as well as assets must be known to know the condition
and, as this case shows, peculations may be concealed as
well by a false understatement of liabilities as by a false
show of assets. But the former is not the direction in
which fraud would have been looked for, especially on the
part of one who at the time of his principal abstractions
was not in contact with the funds. A debtor hardly expects to have his liability understated. Some animals
must have given at least one exhibition of dangerous
propensities before the owner can be held. This fraud
was a novelty in the way of swindling a bank so far as the
knowledge of any experience had reached Cambridge
before 1910. We are not prepared to reverse the finding
of the master and the Circuit Court of Appeals that the
directors should not be held answerable for taking the
cashier's statement of liabilities to be as correct as the

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

statement of assets always was. If he had not been
negligent without their knowledge it would have been.
Their confidence seemed warranted by the semi-annual
examinations by the government examiner and they were
encouraged in their belief that all was well by the president, whose responsibility, as executive officer; interest, as
large stockholder and depositor; and knowledge, from
long daily presence in the bank, were greater than theirs.
They were not bound by virtue of the office gratuitously
assumed by them to call in the pass-books and compare
them with the ledger, and until the event showed the
possibility they hardly could have seen that their failure to
look at the ledger opened a way to fraud. See Briggs v.
Spaulding, 141 U. S. 132; Warner v. Penoyer, 91 Fed.
Rep. 587. We are not laying down general principles,
however, but confine our decision to the circumstances of
the particular case.
The position of the president is different. Practically he
was the master of the situation. He was daily at the bank
for hours, he had the deposit ledger in his hands at times
and might have had it at any time. - He had had hints and
warnings in addition to those that we have mentioned,
warnings that should not be magnified unduly, but still
that taken with the auditor's report of 1903, the unexplained shortages, the suggestion of the teller, Cutting, in
1905, and the final seeming rapid decline in deposits,
would have induced scrutiny but for an invincible repose
upon the status quo. In 1908 one Fillmore lEarned that a
package containing $150 left with the bank for safe keeping was not to be found, told Dresser of the loss, wrote to
him that he could but conclude that the package had been
destroyed or removed by someone connected with the
bank, and in later conversation said that it was evident
that there was a thief in the bank. He added that he
would advise the president to look after Coleman, that he
believed he was living at a pretty fast pace, and that he

BATES v. DRESSER.
524.

531

Opinion of the Court.

had pretty good authority for thinking that he was supporting a woman. In the same year or the year before,
Coleman, whose pay was never more than twelve dollars a
week, set up an automobile, as was known to Dresser and
commented on unfavorably, to him. There was also some
evidence of notice to Dresser that Coleman was dealing in
copper stocks. In 1909 came the great and inadequately
explained seeming shrinkage in the deposits. No doubt
plausible explanations of his conduct came from Coleman
and the notice as to speculations may have been slight,
but taking the whole story of the relations of the parties,
we are not ready to say that the two courts below erred in
finding that Dresser had been put upon his guard. However little the warnings may have pointed to the specific
facts, had they been accepted they would have led to an
examination of the depositors' ledger, a discovery of past
and a prevention of futurethefts.
We do not perceive any ground for applying to this case
the limitations of liability ex contractu adverted to in
Globe Refining Co. v. Landa Cotton Oil Co., 190 U. S. 540.
In accepting the presidency Dresser must be taken to
have contemplated responsibility for losses to the bank,
whatever they were, if chargeable to his fault. Those
that happened were chargeable to his fault, after he had
warnings that should have led to steps that would have
made fraud impossible, even though the precise form that
the fraud would take hardly could have been foreseen.
We accept with hesitation the date of December 1, 1908,
as the beginning of Dresser's liability, but think it reasonable that interest should be charged against his estate
upon the sum found by the Circuit Court.of Appeals to be
due. It is a question of discretion, not of right, Lincoln v.
Claflin, 7 Wall. 132; Drumm-Flato Commission Co. v.
Edmisson, 208 U. S. 534, 539, but to the extent that the
decree of the District Court was affirmed, Kneeland v.
American Loan 4 Trust Co., 138 U. S. 509; De La Rama

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Syllabus.

251 U. S.

v. De La Rama, 241 U. S. 154, 159, it seems to us just upon
all the circumstances that it should run until the receiver
interposed a delay by his appeal to this Court. The Scotland, 118 U. S. 507, 520. Upon this as upon the other
points our decision is confined to the specific facts.
Decree modified by charging the estate of Dresser with
interest from February 1, 1916, to June 1, 1918, upon
the sum found to be due, and affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA and MR. JUSTICE PITNEY dis-

sent, upon the ground that not only the administrator of
the president of the bank but the other directors ought to
be held liable to the extent to which they were held by the
District Court, 229 Fed. Rep. 772.
and MR. JUsTICE
took no part in the decision.

MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER
DEIS

BRAN-

FORT SMITH LUMBER COMPANY v. STATE OF
ARKANSAS EX REL. ARBUCKLE, ATTORNEY
GENERAL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS.
No. 394.

Submitted January 5, 1920.-Decided March 1, 1920.

Double taxation is not forbidden by the Fourteenth Amendment.

P. 533.
A State may use its taxing power to carry out a policy respecting
corporations. Id.
It may discriminate between local corporations and individuals by
making the former liable to be taxed on shares held in other local
corporations, themselves fully taxed, and to be sued for the back
taxes, while leaving individuals free from such liabilities. Id.
211 S. W. Rep. 662, affirmed.

