32

OCTOBER TERM, 191,.
Syllabus.

251 U. S.

Kentucky, 210; Western Union Tel. Co. v. Foster, 224
Massachusetts, 365; Western Union Tel. Co. v. Hawkins, 14
Ala. App. 295.
It is indeed true that several state courts of last resort
have expressed conclusions concerning the act of Congress
applied by the court below in this case. But we do not
stop to review or refer to them as we are of opinion that
the error in the reasoning upon which they proceed is
pointed out by what we have said and by the authorities
to which we have just referred.
It follows that the judgment below was erroneous and
it must be reversed and the cause remanded for further
proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
And it is so ordered.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY dissents.

CITY OF LOS ANGELES ET AL. v. LOS ANGELES
GAS & ELECTRIC CORPORATION.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE -SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 50. Argued October 23, 1919.-Decided December 8, 1919.

A distinction is to be drawn between the powers of a city when acting
in its governmental capacity, i. e., the police powers,-and those
which belong to it in its proprietary or quasi-private capacity.
P. 38.
Merely for the sake of establishing a lighting system of its own, a city
has no right to displace or remove without compensation the fixtures
of a lighting company already occupying the streets in virtue of
rights guaranteed by its franchise. P. 37.
Declarations in an ordinance to the effect that speedy establishment
of a municipal lighting system, and therein the removal or relocation
of poles and other fixtures maintained in the streets by the owners
of other lighting systems, are necessary for the public peace, health

LOS ANGELES v. LOS ANGELES GAS CORP.
32.

33

Opinion of the Court.

and safety, do not suffice to convert such acts of interference into
a legitimate exercise of police power. Pp. 34, 38.
A franchise to use the streets for supplying a city and its inhabitants
with electric light, acquired under the California Constitution,
Art. XI, § 19, before the amendment of 1911, conveys contract
rights which the city is not at liberty to destroy, and the property
employed in their exercise can not be taken by the city without due
process of law-the payment of compensation. P. 39. Russell v.
Sebastian, 233 U. S. 195.

241 Fed. Rep. 912, affirmed.
THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. W. B. Mathews, with whom Mr. Albert Lee Stephens
and Mr. Charles S. Burnell were on the briefs, for appellants.
Mr. Paul Overton, with whom Mr. Herbert J. Goudge
was on the brief, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the
court.
The appellant city is a municipal corporation of the
State of California and the other appellants are its officers,
having official relation to it and its rights and powers.
The appellee is a California corporation invested with
and in exercise of a franchise for generating and selling
electricity through a system of poles and wires and other
works in the public streets of Los Angeles, among others
in that known as York Boulevard.
The appellee-to which we shall refer as the corporation-brought this suit in the District Court to declare
invalid and restrain the execution of an ordinance of the
city providing for a municipal electric street-lighting
system and making way for it in such way, it is charged,
that it obstructed, trespassed upon and made dangerous

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

the system bf the corporation in violation of its rights
under the Constitution of the United States.
The District Court granted the prayer of the bill upon
the grounds relied on and hence the appeal from its decision direct to this court.
The ordinance attacked is very long by reason of its
repetitions. It, however, can be intelligibly reduced to a
few provisions. It was passed March 6, 1917, and approved the next day, and declares in its title its purpose
to be to provide for the removal and relocation of poles
and other property in the public streets of the city "when
necessary in order that the municipal electrical street
lighting system may be constructed, operated and maintained." Such system and its installation "as speedily
as may be practicable" is declared necessary for "the.
public peace, health and safety."
It is recited that certain "fixtures, appliances and
structures" (they are enumerated) are maintained in
the streets and it is necessary "in order that sufficient
space may be secured for said municipal electrical system . . . and that the work of constructing and establishing the same may be carried on, to provide for the
removal or relocation of certain of said poles and other properties so maintained by said persons and corporations."
It is therefore ordained that (§ 1) whenever it shall appear to the Board of Public Works that the removal or
relocation of such "fixtures, appliances or structures"
(there is an enumeration again which we omit as useless
repetition) is necessary in order that the municipal system may have place, the Board shall give notice to the
person, firm or corporation owning or controlling the
property to remove or relocate the same, the notice to
designate the property to be removed and the place to
which it shall be removed, and it shall be the duty of such
person, firm or corporation to comply with the notice
within five days of its receipt. To fail or refuse to so

LOS ANGELES v. LOS ANGELES GAS CORP.
32.

35

Opinion of the Court.

comply or to diligently prosecute the work of removal is
made unlawful (§§ 2 and 3) and (§ 4) made a misdemeanor
punishable by a fine of not more than $500 or by imprisonment in the city jail for a period of not more than six
months, or by both such fine and imprisonment. Each
day's delay is made a separate offense.
In case of failure to remove or prosecute the work of
removal the Board of Public Works is given power to do
what the notice directs. (§ 5.)
By § 6 the dependency of the city upon private contracts for lighting the public streets and other public
places is declared, some of which contracts, it is said, have
expired and all will have expired by July, 1917, thus making the completion of the municipal system necessary to
provide for lighting the streets without interruption and
the removal or relocation of the appliances owned or
controlled by various persons, firms or corporations immediately necessary in order that the city may complete
and install its system. And it is declared that the "ordinance is urgently required for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health and safety."
The ordinance was preceded by acts of interference by
the city with the property of the corporation in qther
streets and also in York Boulevard, which interference
was enjoined by interlocutory and final decree by the
Superior Court of Los Angeles County in a suit brought
by the corporation-the city not defending. And it was
interference, not displacement, and the court's decree was
adapted to the extent of the interference. The decree as
to other streets than York Boulevard was as follows:
C. .
from in any manner trespassing upon, interfering with, moving or displacing the poles or wires, or
either or any of them, owned or controlled wholly or in
part by plaintiff [the corporation in this case]; or erecting
or placing any pole, cross-arm or other electrical appliance
or equipment or attaching any wire or cable to or upon

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S..

any pole, cross-arm or other electrical appliance or equipment in a fixed position within the distance from any
pole, cross-arm, wire or other electrical appliance or equipment owned or controlled wholly or in part by plaintiff,
[the corporation in this case], as prescribed by the laws
of the State of California and the rules and regulations of
the Railroad Commission of said State;
" As to
York Boulevard the decree was as follows:".
. from
conveying, running or transmitting electric power or
energy through the lines and wires heretofore erected
and constructed by said City of Los Angeles, its agents,
servants or employees," until the wires, poles, and equipment of the city are removed to the distance "prescribed
by the laws of the State of California and the rules and
regulations of the Railroad Commission thereof."
The decree contained a provision upon which the city
bases a contention, or rather a suggestion, to which we
shall presently refer. The provision is as follows: "Nothing herein contained shall be construed as prohibiting or
restraining the City of Los Angeles or its proper boards,
officers or agents from carrying into effect any ordinance
of said City providing for the removal or relocation of
poles, anchors, cross arms, wires, street lamps or other
fixtures, appliances or structures owned or controlled by
said plaintiff [the corporation in this case] and located in,
upon, over or under any public street or other public
place of said city."
The ground or basis of the ordinance of March 6, 1917,
here involved is the same as that of the interference in the
suit in the state court, that is, the right to displace the
corporation's property in order that the municipal system
may be operated or erected. There is no'attempt here, as
there was no attempt in that suit, at absolute displacement. The order of the Board of Public Works, issued in
accordance with the direction of the ordinance, required
the corporation to change or shift or lower its wires to

LOS ANGELES v. LOS ANGELES GAS CORP.
32.

:37

Opinion of the Court.

the detriment of their efficient use, as it is contended.
There is some conflict as to the extent and effect which,
however, we are not called upon to reconcile. It was
stipulated "that the value of the right to exercise the
franchises of the Los Angeles Gas & Electric Corporation
in the public streets and thoroughfares of the City of Los
Angeles exceeded the sum of $3,000 and was in excess of
$4,000." And it was testified that if the city in constructing its system proceeds as it has done in ordering the removal of poles and wires, it will cost the corporation' between $50,000 and $60,000; but passing by the particular
instance of interference and considering the ordinance's
broad assertion of right, the contentions of the city and
the corporation are in sharp contradiction.
We say "the ordinance's broad assertion of right" to
distinguish the narrower right of the city to erect a system of its own. Of the latter right there is no question.
The District Court conceded it, indeed praised the project, but decided that it could not be exercised to displace other systems, without compensation, occupying
the streets by virtue of franchises legally granted. Thus
the only question is whether the city may as matter of
public right and without compensation clear a "space"
for the instrumentalities of its system by removing or
relocating the instrumentalities of other systems. The
city asserts the affirmative-asserts the right to displace
other systems as an exercise of the police power, and,
further, as an incident of its legislative power. It is
further asserted that these powers are attributes of government, and that their exercise when not palpably arbitrary, is not subject to judicial interference. "And
that 'every intendment is to be indulged in favor of its
validity, and all doubts resolved in a way to uphold the
law-making power [in this case the city]; and a contrary
conclusion will never be reached upon light consideration."' Ex parte Haskell, 112 California, 412.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

In counter propositions the corporation urges its franchise and the right it conveys to occupy the streets of the
city-rights, it is said, having the inviolability of a contract and the sanctity of private property, not indeed
free from reasonable regulation, if such regulation is
governmental, but free from molestation or displacement
to make "space" for a city system, for that is proprietary.
We have, therefore, the not unusual case of rights asserted
against governmental power-a case somewhat fruitful
of disputable considerations and upon which judgment
may not be easy or free from controversy. But there is
some point where power or rights must prevail, however
plausible or specious the argument of either against the
other may be. As for example, in the present case. The
city has undoubtedly the function of police; it undoubtedly has the power of municipal lighting and the installation of its instrumentalities (Russell v. Sebastian,233 U. S.
195, 202); but function and power may be exceeded and
so far as wrongful be restrained. And such was the conclusion of the District Court applying the Constitution
of the United States, and such the ground of its judgment.
In what way the public peace or health or safety was
imperiled by the lighting system of the corporation or
relieved by its removal or change, the court was unable
to see and it is certainly not apparent. The court pointed
out that there were several lighting systems in existence
and occupying the streets and that there was no contest,
or disorder or overcharge of rates or peril, or defect of
any kind, and therefore concluded that the conditions
demonstrated that while the city might install its own
system there was no real "public necessity" arising from
consideration of public health, peace or safety requiring
the city to engage in the business of furnishing light.
The court reasoned and concluded that what the city
did was done not in its governmental capacity-an exertion of the police power-but in its "proprietary or quasi-

LOS ANGELES v. LOS ANGELES GAS CORP.
32.

39

Opinion of the Couit.

private capacity" and that therefore the city was subordinate in right to the corporation, the latter being an
earlier and lawful occupant of the field. The difference in
the capacities is recognized and the difference in attendant
powers pointed out in decisions of this court. Vilas v.
Manila, 220 U. S. 345; Russell v. Sebastian, 233 U. S. 195;
South Carolinav. United States, 199 U. S. 437; New Orleans
Gas Co. v. Drainage Commission, 197 U. S. 453; Vicksburg
v. Vicksburg Waterworks Co., 206 U. S. 496, 508.
The city's contentions are based on a confusion of these
capacities and the powers or rights respectively attributed
to them and upon a misunderstanding of the reservations
in the decree of the state court. The reservations were
made only in prudence, not to define the existence or
extent of powers, and forestall their challenge, but to
leave both to the occasion when either of them might
be asserted or denied. And it is clear that it was not intended to confound the capacities in which the city might
act and the relation of the city's acts to those capacities.
It is not necessary to repeat the reasoning or the examples of the cases cited above, by which and in which the
different capacities of the city are defined, and illustrated.
A franchise conveys rights and if their exercise could be
prevented or destroyed by a simple declaration of a
municipal council, they would be infirm indeed in tenure
and substance. It is to be remembered that they come
into existence by compact, having, therefore, its sanction,
urged by reciprocal benefits, and are attended and can
only be exercised by expenditure of money, making them
a matter of investments and property, and entitled as
such against being taken without the proper process of
law-the payment of compensation.
The franchise of the present controversy was granted
prior to 1911 and hence has the attributes and rights
described in Russell v. Sebastian, supra. Its source, as
was that of the franchise in that case, is the constitution of

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Dissent.

251 U. S.

the State and is that "of using the public streets and
thoroughfares thereof . . . for introducing into and
supplying" a city "and its inhabitants either with gas
light or other illuminating light." We said of such that
the "breadth of the offer was commensurate with the requirements of the undertaking which was invited. The
service to which the provision referred was a community
service. It was the supply of a municipality-which had
no municipal works-with water or light." And again,
"The individual or corporation undertaking to supply
the city with water or light was put in the same position
as though such individual or corporation had received a
special grant of the described street rights in the city
which was to be served." We can add nothing to this
definition of rights, and, we may repeat, they did not
become immediately violable or become subsequently,
violable.
It will be observed that we are not concerned with the
duty of the corporation operating a public utility to yield
uncompensated obedience to a police measure adopted for
the protection of the public, but with a proposed uncompensated taking or disturbance of what belongs to one
lighting system in order to make way for another. And
this the Fourteenth Amendment forbids. What the grant
was at its inception it remained and was not subject to be
displaced by some other system, even that of the city,
without compensation to the corporation for the rights
appropriated.
We think, therefore, that the decree of the District
Court protecting the corporation's rights from disturbance under the ordinance in question must be and it is
Af'irmed.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY

and MR.

JUSTICE CLARKE

dissent.

