OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Syllabus.

251 U. S.

of the power and discretion conferred upon him by this
legislation; and so long as he exercised this power and
discretion reasonably, not fixing a non-compensatory rate
or otherwise acting arbitrarily, the carrier was concluded
by his action. There is no finding that he acted arbitrarily; on the contrary, he had in support of Order No.
412 a considered opinion of the Attorney General under
date September 27, 1907 (26 Ops. Atty. Gen. 390); and,
so fax as appears, he tieated the land-grant routes like
others, not reducing them below the eighty per centum
contemplated by § 13 of the Act of 1876, or otherwise
violating the statutes. There is no finding nor any contention that the amounts allowed them were not compensatory; and, upon the whole, it seems to me that although
he erred in failing to apply the week-day divisor to the
weighings, this did not render the readjustment based
thereon wholly void, or permit the carrier, after transporting the mails and accepting the stated compensation
without further objection, afterwards to treat the readjustment orders as nullities.
MR. JusTICE McKENNA concurs in this opinion.

MARYLAND CASUALTY COMPANY v.
UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 73.

Argued November 13, 1919.-Decided January 12, 1920.

Under the Income Tax Act of 1913, § G, (a), (b), as under the Corporation Excise Tax Act of 1909, the income taxable to a domestic
corporation is limited to income "received" during the year. P. 345.
Under these statutes premiums collected in any year by the agents
of an insurance company but not paid over to the treasurer of the
company, are part of its income "received" in that year. Id.

MARYLAND CASUALTY CO. v. UNITED STATES. 343
342.

Syllabus.

Where the Government imposed and collected the tax on all premiums
written during the year, the company, claiming refund of part as
erroneously assessed on premiums not received, must show what
premiums were received during the year. P. 347.
Reserves which are required by state insurance departments in the
exercise of statutory authority, are "required by law" within the
meaning of the Excise and Income Tax Acts, supra, where they provide that net additions, required by law to be made within the year
to reserve funds, may be deducted from gross, in determining net
income. P. 348.
The term "reserve funds," as used in these acts, held to include an
"unearned premium reserve," to meet future liabilities on policies;
a "liability reserve," to satisfy claims indefinite in amount and as
to time of payment, but accrued, on liability and workmen's compensation policies; and a "reserve for loss claims," accrued on
other policies; but not to include funds required by state authority
to be maintained to meet ordinary running expenses, such as taxes,
salaries, re-insurance and unpaid brokerage. P. 349.
If an insurance company in one year makes an over-estimate of reserve requirements and so an excessive deduction from gross income,
semble, that such excess may be treated, under these tax acts, as
income of the year in which it is subsequently released to the general
uses of the company. P. 351.
But amounts once deducted from gross income and added to reserves,
under these acts, can be treated by the Government as income of a
subsequent year for the purpose of computing the tax, only where
it can be clearly shown that subsequent business conditions have released them to the free beneficial use of the company in a real, and
not in a mere bookkeeping, sense. P. 352.
A claim for refund of money paid with original returns made under
the above-mentioned tax acts, is barred if not presented to the
Commissioner, as directed by Rev. Stats., § 3226, and sued on in
the Court of Claims within the two-year limitation of § 3227; and
these requirements are not postponed or superseded as to such payments by the facts that the original returns were amended and the
assessments increased and the original payments credited upon the
increased assessments, by the action of the Commissioner. Cheatham
v. United States, 92 U. S. 85, distinguished. Act of September 8,
1916, c.463, § 14, 39 Stat. 772, held inapplicable. P. 353.
52 Ct. Clms. 201, 288; 53 id. 81, modified and affirmed.
THE case is stated in the opinion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

Mr. Burt E. Barlow, with whom Mr. Abram R. Serven
was on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Frierson for the United
States.
MR. JUSTICE CLARKE

delivered the opinion of the court.

Under warrant of the Act of Congress, approved August 5, 1909, c. 6, 36 Stat. 11, 113, the Government
collected from the claimant, a corporation organized
as an insurance company under the laws of Maryland,
an excise tax for the years 1909,1910, 1911 and 1912,
and, under warrant of the Act of Congress of October 3,
1913, c. 16, 38 Stat. 114, 166, it likewise collected an
excise tax for the first two months of 1913, and an income tax for the remaining months of that year.
This suit, instituted in the Court of Claims, to recover portions of such payments claimed to have been
unlawfully collected, is here for review upon appeal from
the judgment of that court.
The claimant was engaged in casualty, liability, fidelity,
guaranty and surety insurance, but the larger part of
its business was employers' liability, accident, and, in
the later of the years under consideration in this case,
workmen's compensation insurance.
By process of elimination the essential questions of difference between the parties ultimately became three, viz:
(1) Should claimant be charged, as a part of its gross
income each year, with premiums collected by agents,
but not transmitted by them to its treasurer within the
year?
(2) May the amount of gross income of the claimant
be reduced by the aggregate amount of the taxes, salaries,
brokerage and re-insurance unpaid at the end of each
year, under the provisions in both the excise and income

MARYLAND CASUALTY CO. v. UNITED STATES. 345
342.

Opinion of the Court.

tax laws allowing deductions of "net addition, if any,
required by law to be made within the year to reserve
funds"?
(3) Should the decrease in the amount of reserve
funds required by law for the year 1913 from the amount
required for 1912 be treated as "released reserve" and
charged to the company as income for 1913?
Of these in the order stated.
First: Section 38 of the Excise Tax Act (36 Stat. 112)
provides that every corporation, organized under the laws
of any State as an insurance company "shall be subject
to pay annually a special excise tax with respect to the
carrying on or doing business . . . equivalent to one
per centum upon the entire net income .
.
received by it from all sources during such year."
The Income Tax Act (38 Stat. 172) provides [§ G,
paragraph (a)] that the tax shall be levied upon the entire "net income arising or accruing from all sources
during the preceding calendar year." But in paragraph
(b), providing for deductions, gross income is described
as that "received within the year from all sources." So
that, with respect to domestic corporations, it is clear
.enough that no change was intended by the use of the
expression "arising or accruing" in the Income Tax
Act, and that the tax should be levied under both acts
upon the income "received" during the year. Southern
Pacific Co. v. Lowe, 247 U. S. 330, 335.
The claimant did business in many States, through
many agents, with whom it had uniform written contracts which allowed them to extend the time for payment of the premiums on policies, not to exceed thirty
days from the date of policy, and required that on the
fifth day of each calendar month they should pay or
remit, in cash or its equivalent, the balance due claimant as shown by the last preceding monthly statement
rendered to it.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

Under the provisions of such contracts obviously
the agents were not required to remit premiums on
policies written in November until the fifth of January
of the next year and on policies written in December
not until the following February.
Much the largest item of the gross income of the company was premiums collected on policies of various kinds.
Omitting reference to earlier and tentative returns by
the claimant and amendments by the Government, it
came about that claimant took the final position that the
only premiums with which it could properly be charged
as net income "received by it . . . during each
year" were such as were collected and actually paid to
its treasurer within the year. This involved omitting
from gross income each year "premiums in course of
collection by agents, not reported on December 31st,"
which varied in amount from $584,000 in one year to
$1,020,000 in another. The amount, if deducted one
year, might appear in the return of the claimant for the
next year, but the rate might be different.
The Government, on the otler hand, contended that
the claimant should return the full amount of premiums
on policies written in each year, whether actually collected or not.
The Court of Claims refused to accept the construction
of either of the parties and held that the claimant should
have returned, not all premiums written by it, but all
which were actually received by it during the year and
that receipt by its agents was receipt by the company,
within the meaning of the act of Congress.
The claimant contends that premiums paid to its
agents but not remitted to its treasurer were not "received by it during the year," chiefly for the reason that
while in possession of the agents the money could not be
attached as the company's property (Maxwell v. McGee, 66
Massachusetts, 137), and because money, while thus in

MARYLAND CASUALTY CO. v. UNITED STATES. 347
342.

Opinion of the Court.

the possession of agents was not subject to beneficial use
by the claimant and therefore cannot, with propriety, be
said to have been received by it, within the meaning of
the act.
On the other hand it is conclusively argued: That
payment of the premium to the agent discharged the
obligation of the insured and called into effect the obligation of the insurer as fully as payment to the treasurer
of the claimant could have done; that in the popular or
generally accepted meaning of the words "received by
it" (which must be given to them, Maillard v. Lawrence,
16 How. 251), receipt by an agent is regarded as receipt
by his principal; that under their contract collected
premiums in possession of the agents of the claimant
were subject to use by it in an important respect before
they were transmitted to the treasurer of the company,
for the agency contract provided that "the agent will
pay on demand, out of any funds collected by him for
account of premiums and not remitted to the company,
such drafts as may be drawn upon him by the company
. .for
the purpose of settling claims, deducting
same from his next succeeding monthly remittance;"
and that only imperative language in the statute would
justify a construction which would place it in the power
of the claimant, by private contract with its agents, to
shift payment of taxes from one taxing year into another.
The claimant withheld from its returns collections
in the custody of its agents at the end of each year, and
because in its amendments the Government had included
all premiums written in each year whether or not collected, the Court of Claims, having reached the conclusion thus approved by us, allowed the claimant ninety
days in which to show the amount of premiums received
by it and its agents within each of the years in controversy, but the claimant failed to make such a showing,
and thereupon the court treated the return of premiums
*

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

written as the correct one and very properly, so far as
this item is concerned, dismissed claimant's petition.
Second: In the same words the Excise and Income
Tax Acts provide that "the net addition, if any, required
by law to be made within the year to reserve funds" may
be deducted from gross, in determining the amount of
net, income to be taxed.
Finding its authority in this provision of the law the
claimant in all of its returns treated as "reserves," for
the purpose of determining whether the aggregate
amount of them each year was greater or less than in
the preceding year, and of thereby arriving at the "net
addition to reserve funds" which it was authorized to
deduct from the gross income, the following, among
others, viz: "Reserve for unearned premiums," "Special
reserve for unpaid liability losses," and "Loss claims
reserve." Unearned premium reserve and special reserve for unpaid liability losses are familiar types of insurance reserves, and the Government, in its amended
returns, allowed these two items, but rejected the third,
"Loss claims reserve."
The Court of Claims, somewhat obscurely, held that
the third item should also be allowed. This "Loss claims
reserve" was intended to provide for the liquidation
of claims for unsettled losses (other than those provided
for by the reserve for liability losses) which had accrued
at the end of the tax year for which the return was made
and the reserve computed. The finding that the Insurance Department of Pennsylvania, pursuant to statute,
has at all times since and including 1909 required claimant to keep on hand, as a condition of doing business in
that State, "assets as reserves sufficient to cover outstanding losses," justifies the deduction of this reserve as
one required by law to be maintained, and the holding
that it should have been allowed for all of the years involved is approved.

MARYLAND CASUALTY CO. v. UNITED STATES. 349
342.

Opinion of the Court.

But the Court of Claims approved the action of the
Government in rejecting other claimed deductions of
reserves for "unpaid taxes, salaries, brokerage and reinsurance due other companies." The court gave as its
reason for this conclusion that the "net addition if any,
required by law to be made within the year to reserve
funds" which the act of Congress permitted to be deducted
from gross income was limited to reserves required by
express statutory provision and did not apply to reserves
required by the rules and regulations of State Insurance
Departments, when promulgated in the exercise of an
appropriate power conferred by statute.
In'this the Court of Claims fell into error. It is settled
by many recent decisions of this court that a regulation by
a department of government, addressed to and reasonably
adapted to the enforcement of an act of Congress, the
administration of-which is confided to such department,
has the force and effect of law if it be not in conflict with
express statutory provision. United States v. Grimaud,
220 U. S. 506; United States v. Birdsal, 233 U. S. 223, 231;
United States v. Smull, 236 U. S. 405, 409, 411; United
States v. Morehead, 243 U. S. 607. The law is not different
with respect to the rules and regulations of a department
of a state government.
But it is contended by the claimant that it was required
*to provide "reserves" for the payment of the rejected items
of liability: because the Court of Claims found that pursuant to statutes the Insurance Department of Pennsylvania required the company, as a condition of doing business in that State, to keep on hand "assets as reserves"
sufficient to cover all claims against the company "whether
due or accrued"; because the department of New York
required it to maintain "reserves sufficient to meet all of
its accrued but unpaid indebtedness in each year"; and because the department of Wisconsin required it to carry "sufficient reserves to cover all of its outstanding liabilities."

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

Whether this contention of the claimant can be justified or not depends upon the meaning which is to be given
to the words "reserve funds" in the two acts of Congress
we are considering.
The term "reserve" or "reserves" has a special meaning in the law of insurance. While its scope varies under
different laws, in general it means a sum of money, variously computed or estimated, which with accretions from
interest, is set aside, "reserved," as a fund with which
to mature or liquidate, either by payment or reinsurance
with other companies, future unaccrued and contingent
claims, and claims accrued, but contingent and indefinite as to amount or time of payment.
In this case, as we have seen, the term includes "unearned premium reserve" to meet future liabilities on
policies, "liability reserve" to satisfy claims, indefinite
in amount and as to time of payment, but accrued on
liability and workmen's compensation policies, and "reserve for loss claims" accrued on policies other than those
provided for in the "liability reserve," but it has nowhere
been held that "reserve," in this technical sense, must
be maintained to provide for the ordinary running expenses of a business, definite in amount and which must
be currently paid by every company from its income if
its business is to continue, such as taies, salaries, reinsurance and unpaid brokerage.
The requirements relied upon, of the Insurance Departments of New Yark,. Pennsylvania and Wisconsin
that "assets as reserves" must be maintained to cover
"all claims," "all indebtedness," "all outstanding liabilities," in terms might include the rejected items we are
considering, but plainly the departments, in these expressions used the word "reserves" in a non-technical sense
as equivalent to "assets," as is illustrated by the Massachusetts requirement that each company shall "hold or
reserve assets" for the payment of all claims and obliga-

MARYLAND CASUALTY CO. v. UNITED STATES. 351
342.

Opinion of the Court.

tions. The distinction between the "reserves" and general
assets of a company is obvious and familiar and runs
through the statements of claimant and every other insurance company. That provision for the payment of ordinary expenses such as we are considering was not intended to be provided for and included in "reserve funds"
as the term is used in the acts of Congress is plain from
the fact that the acts permit deductions for such charges
from income if paid within the year, and the claimant was
permitted in this case to deduct large sums for such ordinary expenses of the business-specifically, large sums
for taxes. The claimant did not regard any such charges
as properly covered by "reserves" and did not so include
them in its statement for 1909. In its 1910 return "unpaid taxes" and "salaries" first appear as "reserves,"
and in 1911 "brokerage" and "re-insurance" are added.
This earlier, though it is now claimed to have been an
uninstructed or inexpert, interpretation of the language
of the acts, was nevertheless the candid and correct interpretation of it, and the judgment of the Court of Claims
in this respect is approved.
Third: The year 1913 was the only one of those under
consideration in which the aggregate amount of reserves
which the claimant was required by law to keep fell below
the amount so required for the preceding year. The Government allowed only "unearned premium" and "unpaid
liability loss," reserves to be considered in determining
deductions. In 1913 the "unpaid liability loss reserve"
decrease, exceeded the "unearned premium reserve" increase, by over $270,000, and this amount the Government added to the gross income of the claimant for the
year, calling it "released reserve," on the theory that the
difference in the amount of the reserves for the two years
released the decrease to the claimant so that it could use
it for its general purposes, and therefore constituted free
income for the year 1913, in which the decrease occurred.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

This theory of the Government was accepted by the
Court of Claims and the addition to the gross income was
approved.
The statute does not in terms dispose of the question
thus presented.
Reserves, as we have seen, are funds set apart as a
liability in the accounts of a company to provide for the
payment or reinsurance of specific, contingent liabilities.
They are held not only as security for the payment of
claims but also as funds from which payments axe to be
made. The amount "reserved" in any given year may
be greater than is necessary for the required purposes, or
it may be less than is necessary, but the fact that it is
less in one year than in the preceding year does not necessarily show either that too much or too little was reserved for the former year,--it simply shows that the
aggregate reserve requirement for the second year is less
than for the first, and this may be due to various causes.
If, in this case, it were due to an over-estimate of reserves
for 1912 with a resulting excessive deduction for that
year from gross income and if such excess was released
to the general uses of the company and increased its free
assets in 1913, to that extent it should very properly be
treated as income in the year in which it became so
available, for the reason that in that year, for the first
time, it became free income, under the system for determining net income provided by the statute, and the
fact that it came into the possession of the company in an
earlier year in which it could be used only in a special
manner, which permitted it to become non-taxable would
not prevent its being considered as received in 1913 for
the purposes of taxation, within the meaning of the act.
The findings of fact in this case, however, do not show
that the diminution in the amount of required reserves
was due to excessive reserves in prior years or to any other
cause by which the free assets of the company were in-

MARYLAND CASUALTY CO. v. UNITED STATES. 353
.342.

Opinion of the Court.

creased in the year 1913, and the following finding of fact
makes strongly against such a conclusion:
"The .decrease in employers' liability loss reserve for
1913, designated as 'released reserve' did not in any
respect affect or change claimant's gross income or disbursements, as shown by the State Insurance Reports."
It would not be difficult to suggest conditions under
which the statutory permit to deduct net additions to
reserve funds would result in double deduction in favor of
an insurance company, but such deductions can be restored
to income again only where it is clearly shown that subsequent business conditions have released the amount of
them to the free beneficial use of the company in a real,
and not in a mere bookkeeping sense. If this seemingly
favorable treatment of insurance companies is to be btherwise corrected or changed, it is for Congress, and not for
the courts, to amend the law.
Since the findings of fact before us do not make the
clear showing, which must be required, that the statutory
deduction of net reserves in prior years was restored to the
free use of the claimant in 1913, it should not have been
charged as income with the decrease in that year, and, on
the record before us, the holding of the Court of Claims
must be reversed.
There remains the question as to the statute of limitations.
The Government concedes that the case is in time with
respect to the amended returns but claims that it is barred
by Rev. Stats., §§ 3226, 3227 and 3228, with respect, to
taxes paid on the original returns for all of the years but
1913. The claimant made its original returns without
protest except for the year 1909 and, without appeal to
the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, voluntarily paid
the taxes computed on them for each of the years. Payment was made for 1909 in June, 1910; for 1910 in June,
1911; for 1911 in June, 1912; for 1912 in June, 1913. No

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

claim for a refund of any of these payments was made
until April 30, 1915, and then the claim was in general
terms,
"For .
. amounts paid by it as taxes which,
through lack of information as to the requirements of the
law or by error in computation, it may have paid in excess
of the amounts legally due."
This claim was rejected subsequent to the institution
of this suit, which was commenced on February 8, 1916.
This statement shows the right of the claimant plainly
barred by its failure to appeal to the Commissioner of
Internal Revenue, Rev. Stats., § 3226 [this is fundamental, King's County Savings Institution v. Blair, 116
U. S. 200], and also by its failure to institute suit within
two years after the cause of action accrued, Rev. Stats.,
§ 3227.
The claimant contends that the amended returns filed
by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue were not amendments or modifications of the original returns, but were
based upon a different principle and, within the scope of
Cheatham v. United States, 92 U. S. 85, constituted new
assessments from which appeals were taken in time.
But they are denominated "amended returns" and
while in dealing with the same items the basis of computation was in some cases varied, in each case the purpose and effect of them was to increase the payment
which the claimant was required to make under the law
and the payments made on the original returns were
credited on the amounts computed as due on the returns
as amended.
The inapplicability of Cheatham v. United States, 92
U. S. 85, is obvious, and the contention that the filing
of the amended returns constituted the beginning of new
proceedings which so superseded the original returns as to
release the claimant from its entire failure to observe the
statutory requirement for review of the latter is so un-

355

.EASTERN EXTENSION TEL. CO. v. U. S.
Syllabus.

342.

founded that we cannot consent to enter upon a detailed
discussion of it. This conclusion renders § 14 of the Act
of Congress of September 8, 1916, c. 463, 39 Stat. 772,
inapplicable.
It results that the judgment of the Court of Claims is
modified, and as so modified affirmed, and the case is
remanded to that court for proceedings in accordance with

this opinion.
Affirmed with Modifications and Remanded.

EASTERN EXTENSION, AUSTRALASIA & CHINA
TELEGRAPH COMPANY, LIMITED, v. UNITED
STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 357.

Argued December 15, 1919.-Decided January 12, 1920.

The Court of Claims is without jurisdiction of a claim based on an
obligation of the United States growing directly out of the treaty
with Spain ceding the Philippine Islands or on one imposed by principles of international law as a consequence of the cession. Pp. 357,
362. Eastern Extension Tel. Co. v. United States, 231 U. S. 326;
Jud. Code, § 153.
To create an express or, (in a strict sense,) an implied contract binding the United States, some officer with express or implied power to
commit the Government must have intended that result. P. 363.
A cable company holding Spanish concessions in the Philippines obliging it to transmit government messages, in part free and in part
at reduced rates, and to pay certain taxes, and entitling it to a
subsidy, claimed the subsidy from the United States, upon the ground
that the Government, by accepting the benefits, had assumed the
burdens of the concessions. Held, that no such contract could be
derived from the facts as found. Id.
Such a contract could not be implied from the use of the cable service
in transmitting government messages, when the Government paid

