UNITED STATES v. POLAND.
Counsel for the United States.

UNITED STATES v. POLAND ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 29.

Argued November 19, 1919.-Decided January 5, 1920.

A bill to set aside a patent partly because of a false representation
alleged to have been made in an affidavit filed with the land officials,
held not sustainable upon the ground of fraud, it appearing from the
affidavit as set forth that the representation was not as alleged, and
the bill also showing that the fact in question was clearly disclosed'
by the application and other entry papers. P. 224.
But where the facts alleged show that the patent was issued in violation
of law the bill states a case for cancellation. P. 227.
The Act of March 3, 1903, c. 1002, 32 Stat. 1028, in providing that
"no more than one hundred and sixty acres shall be entered in any
single body" by means of soldiers' additional homestead rights, in
Alaska, while leaving the holder of several such rights free to exercise
all of them and to make as many entries as his rights will sustain,
prohibits him from using them to enter and acquire more than 160
acres in a single body, whether through one or more entries. P. 225.
This provision is wholly distinct from the provision of the same act
limiting entries to 160 rods along the shores of navigable waters and
reserving 80 rods of shore between claims. P. 227.
The defense of bona fide purchase must be set up and established
affirmatively by the defendant in a suit to set aside a patent. Id.
One who without fraud has secured a patent, by means of soldiers'
additional homestead rights, which is canceled because issued in
violation of law, is free to exercise the rights by which it was obtained, and, under the Act of June 16, 1880, c. 244, 21 Stat. 287, may
apply for repayment of the fees and commissions paid to the land
officers. P. 228.
231 Fed. Rep. 810, reversed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Nebeker, with whom The
Solicitor General was on the brief, for the United States.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

Mr. Ira Bronson and Mr. George H. Patrick, with whom
Mr. H. B. Jones was on the brief, for respondents. Among
the points presented by them was the following:
Assuming that the granting of the patent to survey
No. 242 resulted from a mistake of fact and law in the
minds of the officers of the Land Department, but without
any act of fraud on the part of the patentee, the complaint
is open to demurrer for want of an allegation of the return
or tender of the return of the consideration paid for the
entry. Act of June 16, 1880, c. 244, 21 Stat. 287; Brent v.
Bank of Washington, 10 Pet. 596, 615; State v. Morgan, 52
Arkansas, 157; State v. Snyder, 66 Texas, 700. United
States v. Trinidad Coal Co., 137 U. S. 160; Causey v.
United States, 240 U. S. 399, distinguished.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER delivered the opinion of

the court.
This is a suit to cancel a patent issued to William B.
Poland for one hundred and sixty acres of land in Alaska,
the gravamen of the complaint being that by this and
another patent, both based upon soldiers' additional
homestead rights, Poland acquired a single body of land
of larger acreage than was permitted by the statute under
which the patents were sought and issued. The defendants, who were the patentee and another claiming under
him, separately demurred to the complaint, and the court
sustained the demurrers and dismissed the suit. That
decision was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals, one
judge dissenting, 231 Fed. Rep. 810, and the case is here on
writ of certiorari.
Of course, it rested with Congress to determine whether,
when, and with what restrictions the general land laws
should be extended to Alaska. For many years there was
no affirmative action upon the subject. The first steps
consisted of limited extensions of the laws relating to
mining claims, c. 53, 23 Stat. 24, § 8, and town sites, c. 561,

UNITED STATES v. POLAND.
221.

Opinion of the Court.

26 Stat. 1095, § 11; but with these we are not now concerned. The homestead laws were the next to receive
attention. By the Act of May 14, 1898, c. 299, 30 Stat.
409, they were extended to that district with the restrictions (a) that ''no homestead" should exceed eighty
acres in extent and (b) that "no entry" should extend
more than eighty rods along the shore of any navigable
water, and along such shore a space of at least eighty
rods should be reserved from entry between all such
claims. And by the amendatory Act of March 3, 1903,
c. 1002, 32 Stat. 1028, the extension of the homestead
laws was repeated and confirmed, but with the qualifications (a) that an actual settler intending to comply with
the requirements in respect of continued residence,
cultivation, etc., should be entitled to enter three hundred
and twenty acres or a less quantity, (b) that "no more
than one hundred and sixty acres shall be entered in any
single body" by means of soldiers' additional homestead
rights, and (c) that "no entry" should extend more than
one hundred and sixty rods along the shore of any navigable water, and along such shore a space of at least
eighty rods should be reserved from entry between all
such claims. Further restrictions were imposed, but there
is no present need for noticing them.
The controversy here is over the meaning and purpose
of the provision that no more than one hundred and sixty
acres shall be entered in any single body by means of
soldiers' additional homestead rights.
The material facts to be gathered from the complaint
are these: Poland, who was the assignee of certain soldiers'
additional homestead rights entitling their owner to enter
and acquire in the aggregate 319.75 acres, wished to use
them in entering and acquiring certain land in Alaska.
The regular public surveys had not been extended to that
locality, so he caused a special survey of the land to be
made at his expense, as was permitted by applicable

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

regulations. 32 L.,D. 424; 28 L. D. 149. By that survey
the land, which was in a compact or single body, was
divided into two tracts-one of 159.75 acres, designated as
survey No. 241, and the other of 160 acres, designated as
survey No. 242. As surveyed the north boundary of one
tract was the south boundary of the other, and this was
shown in the surveyor's return. On April 26, 1906, after
the survey, he presented at the local land office two applications whereby he sought to make separate entries of the
two tracts with his soldiers' additional rights-some of the
rights being used on one tract and the others on the other
tract. The applications were approved and passed to
entry and patent-the patent for the 160 acres being issued
a considerable period after the other.
In these circumstances the complaint charges that the
319.75 acres, although surveyed in the form of two tracts,
were but a single body of land in the sense of the provision
in question; that the land officers in passing both applications to entry and patent acted upon a misconception of
the law and of their authority, and that in consequence the
later patent, whereby Poland's acquisition was made to
exceed one hundred and sixty acres in a single body, was
issued in violation of law and should be canceled.
The complaint also contains an allegation that that
patent was fraudulently procured in that among the
proofs presented to the -land officers was an affidavit
falsely representing, in effect, that the two tracts were
more than eighty rods apart, when in truth they were
adjoining tracts. But this allegation must be put out of
view, first, because the words of the affidavit as set forth
in the complaint do not sustain the pleader's conclusion
as to what was represented, and, second, because the complaint makes it certain that the application and other
entry papers clearly disclosed that the two tracts were
contiguous to the extent of having a common boundary
one-half mile in length.

UNITED STATES v. POLAND.
221.

Opinion of the Court.

In approaching the consideration of the provision whose
meaning and purpose are in question it is well to recall
what soldiers' additional homestead rights are and what
use could be made of them outside Alaska when the provision was adopted. They are rights to enter and acquire
unappropriated non-mineral public land without settlement, residence, improvement or cultivation, and without
payment of any purchase price. They are not personal
to the original beneficiaries but are transferable at will,
and the number that may be assigned to the same person
is not limited. A single right is always for less, and generally much less, than one hundred and sixty acres, but
rights aggregating many times that number of acres may
be and often are held by a single assignee. When the
provision was adopted there were almost no restrictions
upon the use of such rights outside Alaska. Indeed, the
only restriction of any moment was one, uniformly respected, preventing the inclusion of more than one hundred and sixty acres in a single entry. But the number of
such entries that might be made by the same person was
not restricted, nor was there any limitation upon the
amount of land in a single body that might be entered in
that way. Thus an assignee having rights aggregating six
hundred and forty acres could use them in entering that
amount of land 'in a compact body one mile square, if
only he did so through four entries of one hundred and
sixty acres each. And, if he had rights the aggregate of
which was sufficient, he could in a like way enter a body
of land three miles square or even an entire township.
See Rev. Stats., §§ 2289, 2304, 2306; Webster v. Luther,
163 U. S. 331; Diamond Coal Co. v. United States, 233 U. S.
236, 243; Robinson v. Lundrigan, 227 U. S. 173, 178-179;
3 L. D. 472; 29 L. D. 599 and 643; 30 L. D. 285; 31 L. D.
441; 32 L. D. 418; 33 L. D. 225; 45 L. D. 236, 3d par.;
General Circular of 1904, pp. 11, 26-28.
With this understanding of the circumstances in which

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

the provision was incorporated into the Act of 1903 extending the homestead laws to Alaska, we think the meaning and purpose of the provision are manifest. It is in
form a proviso and says "no more than one hundred and
sixty acres shall be entered in any single body" by means
of soldiers' additional homestead rights. A purpose to
prevent the use of these rights in entering a large acreage
in a single body hardly could be more plainly expressed.
There is nothing in the provision indicating that it is
concerned merely with what may be taken by a single
entry; and to construe it in that way would make it practically useless, for a large acreage in a single body still
could be taken by merely resorting to two or more entries.
Besides, the amount of land that could be taken by a
single entry had long been limited to one hundred and
sixty acres, and of course to say that no greater amount
should be taken in a single body by a single entry would
add nothing to that limitation. But the provision does not
speak of a single entry but only of the amount that may
be "entered in any single body," and if it is to have any
real effect it must be construed according to the natural
import of its words; that is to say, as limiting the amount
of land in a compact or single body that may be entered by
means of soldiers' additional homestead rights, whether
the entering be by one or several entries. We conclude
therefore that the provision, while leaving one who holds
several rights free to exercise all of them and to make as
many entries as his rights will sustain, prohibits him from
using them to enter and acquire more than one hundred
and sixty acres in a compact or single body.
The court in Alaska regarded the provision as sufficiently like that relating to the area of placer mining
claims (Rev. Stats., §§ 2330, 2331) to require that it be
similarly construed. But we think there is a marked
difference between the two provisions. That in the placer
mining law says "no location" shall exceed a prescribed

UNITED STATES v. POLAND.
221.

Opinion of the Court.

area and it means, as the statute otherwise shows, that
no single location shall include more.
The Circuit Court of Appeals was of opinion that "what
the statute was seeking to protect was the shores of the
navigable waters of Alaska and not to prohibit the entry
of a tract of land of more than 160 acres." In this the
court apparently confused the present provision, which operates in the same way in all parts of Alaska, with another
and wholly distinct provision, which relates only to entries
along the shore. Their independence and the subjects
to which they relate are best shown by quoting both in the
order in which they appear in the statute, which we do"And provided further that no more than one hundred and sixty acres shall be entered in any single body
by . . . soldier's additional homestead right."
"Provided, That no entry shall be allowed extending
more than one hundred and sixty rods along the shore of
any navigable water, and along such shore a space of at
least eighty rods shall be reserved from entry between all
such claims."
There is in this case no question as to what distance
along the shore an entry may extend, or as to what space
shall be reserved between claims along the shore, but only
a question as to whether making separate entries of lands
which in point of contiguity and compactness constitute a
single body of 319.75 acres is in contravention of the
provision first quoted, where both entries are by the same
person and are based upon soldiers' additional homestead
rights. That question we answer in the affirmative for
the reasons before indicated.
. It follows that, if the facts be as alleged in the complaint, the second patent was issued in violation of law
and the Government is entitled to demand that it be canceled, unless, as is asserted in the brief for the defendants,
one of them is a bona fide purchaser. The complaint does
not show that he is such, and the rule is that this is an

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Syllabus.

251 U. S.

affirmative defense which he must set up and establish.
Wright-Blodgett Co. v. United States, 236 U. S. 397, 403;
Great Northern Ry. Co. v. Hower, 236 U. S. 702, 710.
If the patent is canceled Poland, or his assignee, will be
free to exercise the rights with which the patent was obtained (see 6 L. D. 290 and 459), and also to ask repayment under the Act of June 16, 1880, c. 244, 21 Stat. 287,
of the fees and commissions paid to the land officers.
Decree reversed.

PRODUCERS TRANSPORTATION COMPANY v.
RAILROAD COMMISSION OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA.

No. 219. Argued December 12, 1919.-Decided January 5, 1920.
If in the beginning or during its subsequent operation a pipe line is
devoted by its owner to the use of the public in transporting oil for
hire, and if the right thus extended to the public has not been withdrawn, the pipe line is a public utility and its owner a common carrier whose rates and practices may be subjected to state regulation
consistently with the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 230.
The following grounds, relied on by the state court, have adequate
support in the evidence and sustain its conclusion that the plaintiff
in error had devoted its pipe line to public use, viz: (1) authority in
articles of incorporation to establish and carry on a general transportation business for transporting any oils produced by the pipeline company or otherg; (2) acquisition of part of its right of way
through eminent domain proceedings, admissible only, under the
state law, if the condemnation was for a public use and was by an
"agent of the State," and averments in such proceedings by the
condemnor that it was a common carrier seeking the right of way for a
public use; (3) transportation in substance for all producers seeking

