OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Syllabus.

251 U. S.

v. De La Rama, 241 U. S. 154, 159, it seems to us just upon
all the circumstances that it should run until the receiver
interposed a delay by his appeal to this Court. The Scotland, 118 U. S. 507, 520. Upon this as upon the other
points our decision is confined to the specific facts.
Decree modified by charging the estate of Dresser with
interest from February 1, 1916, to June 1, 1918, upon
the sum found to be due, and affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA and MR. JUSTICE PITNEY dis-

sent, upon the ground that not only the administrator of
the president of the bank but the other directors ought to
be held liable to the extent to which they were held by the
District Court, 229 Fed. Rep. 772.
and MR. JUsTICE
took no part in the decision.

MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER
DEIS

BRAN-

FORT SMITH LUMBER COMPANY v. STATE OF
ARKANSAS EX REL. ARBUCKLE, ATTORNEY
GENERAL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS.
No. 394.

Submitted January 5, 1920.-Decided March 1, 1920.

Double taxation is not forbidden by the Fourteenth Amendment.

P. 533.
A State may use its taxing power to carry out a policy respecting
corporations. Id.
It may discriminate between local corporations and individuals by
making the former liable to be taxed on shares held in other local
corporations, themselves fully taxed, and to be sued for the back
taxes, while leaving individuals free from such liabilities. Id.
211 S. W. Rep. 662, affirmed.

FT. SMITH LUMBER CO. v. ARKANSAS.
Opinion of the Court.

532.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Joseph M. Hill and Mr. Henry L. Fitzhugh for
plaintiff in error.
Mr. John D. Arbuckle, Attorney General of the State of

Arkansas, and Mr. George Vaughan for defendant in error.
MR.

JUSTICE

HOLMES delivered the opinion of the

court.
This is a suit by the State of Arkansas against the plaintiff in error, a corporation of the State, to recover back
taxes alleged to be due upon a proper valuation of its
capital stock. The corporation owned stock in two other
corporations of the State each of which paid full taxes and
it contended that it was entitled to omit the value of such
stock from the valuation of its own. This omission is the
matter in dispute. The corporation defends on the ground
that individuals are not taxed for such stock or subject to

suit for back taxes, and that the taxation is double, setting
up the Fourteenth Amendment. The case was heard on
demurrer to the answer and agreed facts, and the statute
levying the tax was sustained by the Supreme Court of the
State.
The objection to the taxation as double may be laid on
one side. That is a matter of state law alone. The
Fourteenth Amendment no more forbids double taxation
than it does doubling the amount of a tax; short of con-

fiscation or proceedings unconstitutional on other grounds.
Davidson v. New Orleans, 96 U. S. 97, 106; Tennessee v.
Whitworth, 117 U. S. 129, 136, 137; St. Louis Southwestern
Ry. Co. v. Arkansas, 235 U. S. 350, 367, 368. We are of
opinion that it also is within the power of a State, so far as
the Constitution of the United States is concerned, to tax
its own corporations in respect of the stock held by them

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Dissent.

251 U. S.

in other domestic corporations, although unincorporated
stockholders are exempt. A State may have: a policy in
taxation. Quong Wing v. Kirkendall, 223 tU. S. 59, 63.
If the State of Arkansas wished to discourage but not to
forbid the holding of stock in one corporation by another
and sought to attain the result by this tax, or if it simply
saw fit to make corporations pay for the privilege, there
would be nothing in the Constitution to hinder. A discrimination between corporations and individuals with
regard to a tax like this cannot be pronounced arbitrary,
although we may not know the precise ground of policy
that led the State to insert the distinction in the law.
The same is true with regard to confining the recovery
of back taxes to those due from corporations. It is to be
presumed, until the contrary appears, that there were
reasons for more strenuous efforts to collect admitted dues
from corporations than in other cases, and we cannot
pronounce it an unlawful policy on the part of the State.
See New York State v. Barker, 179 U. S. 279, 283. We
have nothing to do with the supposed limitations upon the
power of the state legislature in the constitution of the
State. Those must be taken to be disposed of by the
decisions of the State Court. As this case properly comes
here by writ of error, an application for a writ of certiorari
that was presented as a precaution will be denied.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA, MR. JUSTICE DAY, MR. JUSTICE VAN

dissent.

DEVANTER

and MR.

JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

