OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

251 U. S.

Ash Coal Co., 244 U. S. 54; People's Tobacco Co. v. American Tobacco Co., 246 U. S. 79.
It follows that the District Court did not have jurisdiction of defendant and its order and judgment dismissing
the complaint is
Affirmed.

STROUD v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF KANSAS.
No. 276.

Petition for rehearing.

Decided January 19, 1920.

Possible error in overruling a challenge for cause in this case was not
prejudicial, in view of the number of peremptory challenges allowed
to, and their use by, the accused, and the absence of any indication
that the jury was not impartial. The former decision, ante, 15, reexamined on this point and approved.
Rehearing denied.

Mr. Martin J. O'Donnell and Mr. Isaac B. Kimbrell,
for plaintiff in error, in support of the petition.
Memorandum opinion by direction of the court, by
MR. JUSTICE DAY.

In this proceeding on November 24, 1919, this court
affirmed the judgment of the United States District
Court for the District of Kansas rendered upon a verdict
convicting the plaintiff in error of murder in the first degree. Ante, 15.
A petition for rehearing has been presented. It has
been considered, and 'we find occasion to notice only so

STROUD v. UNITED STATES.
380.

Opinion of the Court.

much thereof as refers to the refusal of tHe court below to sustain the plaintiff in error's challenge for
cause as to the juror Williamson. The other grounds
urged have been examined and found to be without
merit.
Williamson was called as a juror, and, as we
said in our
former opinion, was challenged for cause by the plaintiff
in error. This challenge was overruled, and the juror
was then challenged peremptorily by the accused. The
testimony of Williamson made it reasonably certain that
in the event of conviction for murder in the first degree
he would render no other verdict than tne which required
capital punishment. Granting that this challenge for
cause should have been sustained, and that this ruling
required the plaintiff in error to use one of his peremptory
challenges to remove the juror from the panel, we held
that the refusal to sustain the challenge was not prejudicial error as the record disclosed that the defendant
was allowed twenty-two peremptory challenges, when the
law allowed but twenty.
In the petition for rehearing it is alleged that the record
discloses that in fact the accused was allowed twenty
peremptory challenges and no more, and this allegation
is accompanied by an affidavit of counsel giving the names
of twenty persons challenged peremptorily by the plaintiff in error, and stating that no other peremptory challenges were allowed to him at the trial. In this statement
the counsel is mistaken. An examination of the original
transcript, as also the printed transcript, shows that a
juror, H. A. Shearer, was called and examined upon his
voir dire, (printed transcript, p. 79) and later was peremptorily challenged by the plaintiff in error, (printed transcript, p. 143) and excused from the panel. H. A. Shearer's
name does not appear upon the list of those as to whom
peremptory challenges were made and sustained in plaintiff
in error's behalf as given in the petition and affidavit for

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Syllabus.

251 U. S.

a rehearing. It does appear in the transcript that plaintiff
in error was allowed twenty-one peremptory challenges,
and it follows that his right to exercise such challenges
was not abridged to his prejudice by the failure to allow
the single challenge for cause which in our opinion should
have been sustained by the trial judge. Furthermore, the
record shows that after the ruling and challenge as to
Williamson, the plaintiff in error had other peremptory
challenges which he might have used; and the record does
not disclose that other than an impartial jury sat on the
trial. See Spies v. Illinois, 123 U. S. 131, 168, and cases
cited.
It follows that the petition for rehearing must be denied.
So ordered.

REX, ADMINISTRATRIX OF IVIE, v. UNITED
STATES AND UTE INDIANS.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 126.

Argued January 13, 1920.-Decided January 26, 1920.

The primary intent of the Act of January 11, 1915, c. 7, 38 Stat. 791,
amending the Indian Depredation Act, was to remove the defense
of alienage, and it is only cases dismissed on that ground that it provides for reinstating. P. 384.
Assuming that, by omitting the word "band" from ยง 1 of the original
act, the amendment recognized claims for depredations by hostile
bands of friendly tribes, a claim of a citizen previously dismissed
because the depredating band was hostile, though the tribe was not,
is not subject to reinstatement under the amendmerit; and, treated
as a new claim, it is barred by the three years' limitation of the
original act.

Id.

53 Ct. Chms. 320, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion,

