Dec.1872.]

THE COMMaERCE.
Statement of the case.

THE COMMERCE.
1. A steamer condemned for not changing her course when meeting a sailing vessel.
2. When the District and Circuit Courts in such a decree ag-ee in their estimate of the value of the sailing vessel, this court will not set aside their
estimate without satisfactory evidence that they were mistaken.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the District of Mary.0
land.
The steamer Commerce was proceeding down the Chesa.
peake Bay, in a southeast course, on an evening of January,
1870; the schooner Seamen trying to sail up in a courso
about north-northwest. The night was perfectly calm, and
the moon was shining. When nearly opposite Aunapolii,
the vessels first saw each other, at a distance of about two
-miles, and not a great while afterwards collided; the steamer
cutting the schooner in two, and sending her with her cargo
forthwith to the bottom in the deepest part of the bay. Her
owners hereupon libelled the steamer in the District Court
at Baltimore. The master of the steamer answered, stating that she was proceeding down the bay at a rate of six
or seven miles an hour, holding a course south by west;
that he discovered a sailing vessel approaching from the
opposite direction, holding a course, as near as he could
judge, north by east; that a light wind was prevailing from
the southeast, of about two knots an hour; that when the
schooner was about a mile distant, he altered the course of
the steamer to south by east; that he continued this lastmentioned course, and the schooner continued her original
course until the vessels were within about four hundred
yards of each other, when the schooner changed her course
so as to cross the bow of the steamer; that he then caused
the engines of the steamer to be stopped and reversed; that
if the schooner had not altered her course the collision
would not have taken place, &c.
The captain of the schooner testified that the schooner
was becalmed, "her sails amidship and swinging inboard,"
VOL. XVIL

8

THE COMMERoE.

[Sup. (it,

Argument for the steamer.

and could not change her course nor get out of the way;
and that the steamer was warned when yet half a mile off
that unless she changed hers, she would certainly "be into
the schooner."
The pilot of the schooner confirmed this account of things,
stating that the schooner was actually going back rather
than forwards, drifting with an ebb tide; that the bay was
so calm that the schooner would not answer her helm at all,
and had to be kept straight with an oar.
A more credible witness than either of these personswho it will have been observed were both from the schooner,
and who were to some extent contradicted by the master of
the steamer, who testified that "a light wind was prevailing
from the southeast of about two knots an hour "-was one
Thurlow, who happened to be on a sloop lying off Annapolis,
and between the two vessels and the shore when the collision took place, and had been watching both the probabilities and the fact of the disaster. "I was," said this witness, "two or three hundred yards westward of these vessels
when the collision took place. I saw the two boats about
five minutes before the collision and up to the time of the
collision. I heard the captain of the schooner holloa to the
steamer to keep away from him. I think that the steamer
did not slacken her speed, nor change her course. The
schooner did not change hers. She was keeping her proper
course up the bay. There was not a particle of wind at the
time that I could judge; not a ripple upon the water. You
could see a vessel about a mile off, and her lights about a
mile and a half."
The District Court condemned the steamer, and put the
value of the schooner at $2500. She had cost the libellants
$2000 some years before, but they had laid out some money
in repairing her, and witnesses swore that she was now well
worth $2500, and even more. The Circuit Court on appeal
affirmed the decree of the District Court.
Mr. William Shepard Bryan, for the appellant, argued:
LIM. That no reliance was to be given to the testimony of

Dec. 1872.]

THE COMMERCE.
Opinion of the court.

the master and pilot of the schooner, who would, of course,
whatever they had done or omitted to do, exculpate themselves; and,
2d. That if the steamer was properly condemned, the
award of damages in favor of the schooner for more than
her whole cost several years before, was plainly erroneous.
Mr. W. S. Waters, contra.
Mr. Justice STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
If the schooner was guilty of any fault which caused the
collision, or contributed to it in any degree, it was in a
,change of her course, which the respondents allege she
made when the vessels were about four hundred yards from
each other. No other fault was averred in the answer to
the libel, and no other has been suggested in the argument
here. But the evidence utterly fails to establish the allegation of any change of the course of the schooner after the
steamer hove in sight, or after she was seen from the steamer.
Not only is there the direct evidence to the contrary of the
master and pilot of the schooner, as well as of a disinter,ested witness who saw the collision from a yacht two or
three hundred yards westward from the place where it happened, but it is made abundantly manifest that a change of
course was then impossible. There was a dead calm, with
not a ripple upon the water, and the sails of the schooner
were amidships, swinging inboard. She was drifting with
an ebb tide, and could be kept straight only by an oar.
Such is the overwhelming testimony. And nothing appears
,on the other side except the statement of the master of the
steamer, who has testified that "the wind was about southeast, and, as near as he could judge, about a two-knot
breeze." As the steamer was on a southeast course, and
making six or seven knots, this testimony is very light evidence in the scale against the proofs that the schooner was
becalmed, and consequently that the averment of a change
of her course is without foundation. The case exhibits
nothing, then, to justify the steamer's failure to keep out of
the way, and she was properly condemned.

SLAUGHTER-HOUSE

[Sup. Ct

CASES.

Syllabus.

It is said, however, she has been mulcted in excessive
damages. The District Court and the Circuit Court concurred in the assessment made, and we do not perceive
that more was allowed to the libellants than the evidence
warranted. When both the lower courts have agreed ia
their estimate of the damages, we ought not to set aside
their conclusions without satisfactory evidence that they
were mistaken. We have no such evidence before us.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

SLAUGHTER-HOUSE

CASES.

v. THE CRESCENT C=
LIvE-STocK LANDING AND SLAUGHTER-HOUSE COMPANY.

THE BUTCHERS' BENEVOLENT ASSOCIATION Or NEW ORLEANS

PAUL ESTEREN, L. RUCH, J. P. ROUEDE, W. MAYLIE, S. FIRBERG, B. BEAUBAY, WILLIAII
FAGAN, J. D. BRODERICK, N. SEIBEL, M. LANNES, J. GITZINGER, 3. P. AyCocE, ).
VERGES, THE LIvE-STocK DEALERS' AND BUTCHERS' ASSOCIATION OF NEW ORLEANS,
AND CHARLES CAVAROC

v. THE STATE OF LOUISIANA, ex re.

S. BELDEN, ATTORNEY-

GENERAL.

THE BUTCHERS' BENEVOLENT ASSOCIATION Or NEW ORLEANS v. THE.CRESCENT CITY

LIVE-STOCK LANDING AND SLAUGHTER-HOUSE COMPANY.
1. The legislature of Louisiana, on the 8th of March, 1869, passed an act
granting to a corporation, created by it, the exclusive right, for twentyfive years, to have and maintain slaughter-houses, landings for cattle,
and yards for inclosing cattle intended for sale or slaughter within
the parishes of Orleans, Jefferson, and St. Bernard, in that State (a
territory which, it was said,-see infra, p. 85,-contained 1154 square
miles, including the city of New Orleans, and a population of between
two and three hundred thousand people), and prohibiting all other persons from building, keeping, or having slaughter-houses, landings for
cattle, and yards for cattle intended for sale or slaughter, within those
limits; and requiring that all cattle and other animals intended for sale
or slaughter in that district, should be brought to the yards and
slaughter-houses of the corporation; and authorizing the corporation
to exact certain prescribed fees for the use of its wharves and for each
animal landed, and certain prescribed fees for each animal slaughtered,
besides the head, feet, gore, and entrails, except of swine: Held, that
this grant of exclusive right or privilege, guarded by proper limitation
of the prices to be charged, and imposing the duty of providing ample
conveniences, with permission to all owners of stock to land, and of all

