Dec. 1872.]

MARQUEZE V. BLOOM.
Statement of the case.

ful review of the testimony, we think the error was with the
schooner Eveline, and that the libel should not have been
dismissed.
DECREE REVERSED and record remitted with instructions
to enter judgment for libellants, and for further proceedings

IN

ACCORDANCE WITH THIS OPINION.

[See the preceding case.]

MARQUEZE v. BLOOM.
A case brought here as within the 25th section of the Judiciary Act dismissed; neither the record nor the opinion of the Supreme Court,
which was in the records, showing any question before that court, except one relating to the interruption of a " prescription " (statute of
limitations) set up as a defence, and the opinion showing that this question was decided exclusively upon the principles of the jurisprudence of
the State.

ON motion to dismiss a writ of error to the Supreme Court
of the State of Louisiana.
Marqueze & Co. brought this suit in the Fourth District
Court of the Parish of Orleans, in Louisiana, on the 19th of
April, 1866, against Bloom, Kahn, and Levi, trading as
Bloom, Kahn & Co. The petition was for the recovery of
money alleged to be due to the plaintiffs, for certain merchandise sold to the defendants during the first six months
of 1861, amounting with interest, to $1045. The defendants, except Levi, pleaded the prescription of three years.
Levi pleaded the same prescription, averring that at the
time of the sale of the goods and since, until the commencement of the suit, he resided in the city of New Orleans.
The District Court gave judgment against all the defendants.
Levi alone appealed to the Supreme Court, and the judgment
as to him was reversed.
The opinion of the Supreme Court was in the record, and
it appeared that the only question before that court related

MCNITT v.

[Sup. Ct.

TURNER.

Syllabus.

to the interruption of prescription, and that this was decided
exclusively upon the principles of the jurisprudence of the
State.
The CHIEF JUSTICE:
No Federal question is referred to in the record or in the
opinion. We have, therefore, no jurisdiction of the case,*
and the writ of error must be
DISMISSED.

MCNITT v. TURNER.
1. Under the statute of Illinois authorizing the sale of the real estate of
a decedent, and directing the executor or admi istrator to make out
a petition to the county court " stating thereir what real estate the
said testator or intestate may have died seized oi" a statement of the
real estate which he died 1leaving" is a sufficient compliance with the
statute.
2. Where a statute of Illinois enacted that "1in all cases where an intestate
shall have been a non-resident or without a widow, &c., but having
property in the State, administration should be granted to the public
administrator of the proper county, and to no one else:" Held, that
where a person to whom letters of administration on the estate of a nonresident applied, under the statute referred to in the paragraph above,
to have a sale of his property, and the court, having jurisdiction of the
subject, ordered the sale, it would not be presumed that he was not the
public administrator.
8. Where, under the same statute (the one referred to in the first of the
above two paragraphs), an administrator gave public notice that he
meant to apply to have a power to sell the decedent's lnds, stating that
it belonged to him, and describing the several pieces in this way:
Township.

Parts of Sections.

S.E. 4
S.W. 24

......

iS........
3N........

Raoge.

4W.
8W.

"All the above lands being recordednorth or south of the base line, and east and
west of the fourth principal meridian."
And the petition prayed to sell the decedent's land, describing it as4W.
S.E. 4
......
is........
........
8W.
S.W. 24
......
3N.
Gibson v. Chouteau, 8 Wallace, 314; Worthy v. The Commissioners, 9
Id. 613; Northern Railroad v. The People, 12 Id. 384.

