156

THE COLLECTOR V. DOSWELL & Co.

[Sup. Ct

Syllabus.

and to every person who, directly or indirectly, participated
in the late insurrection or rebellion, a full pardon and amnesty for the offence of treason against the United States,
or of adhering to their enemies during the late civil war,
with restoration of all rights, privileges, and immunities
under the Constitution and the laws which have been made
in pursuance thereof."
The act of Congress of July 27th, 1868,* authorizes any
alien to prosecute claims against the United States in the
Court of Claims, where the government of which he is a
citizen or subject accords to citizens of the United States
the right to prosecute claims against such government in its
courts. In O'Keefe's caset it was held that, by the proceeding known as a "petition of right," the government of Great
Britain accords to citizens of the United States the right to
prosecute claims against that government in its courts, and
therefore that British subjects, if otherwise entitled, may

prosecute claims against the United States in the Court of
Claims. There is, therefore, no impediment to the recovery
by the claimants in this case of the net proceeds of their

cotton paid into the treasury.
The judgment of the Court of Claims must, therefore, be
and that court directed to enter judgment in favor
of the claimants for the amount of such net proceeds; and
it is
REVERSED,

SO ORDERED.

THE COLLECTOR

V. DOSWELL & CO.

1. Commercial brokers who act wholly as buyers (other parties acting as
sellers, and these, and not the brokers, receiving the purchase-money) do
not make "sales" as commercial brokers within the meaning of the Internal Revenue Act of July 13th, 1866, laying a tax of one-twentieth
of one per cent. on the amount of all sales made by such brokers.
2. This is not altered by the fact that the compensation to the brokers for
making purchases was one-half of one per cent. paid by the buyer,
* 16 Stat. at Large, 243.

t 11 W allace, 178.

Dec. 1872.]

THE COLLECTOR v. DOSWELL & Co.

157

Statement of the case.
and one-fourth of one per cent. paid by the seller, under a custom of
trade prevalent in the city where the purchases were made, established
when brokers were sellers as well as buyers, though not kept up at the
time of the sales under consideration.
ERROR

to the Circuit Court for the District of Louisiana.

The ninth section of the act of July 13th, 1866, to reduce internal taxation, and to amend the internal revenue
laws,* declares, among other things, that there shall be
paid monthly on all sales by commercial brokers of any
goods, wares, or merchandise, a tax of one-twentieth of one
per cent. on the amount of said sales, and on or before the
tenth day of each month every commercial broker shall
make a list or return to the assessor of the district of the
gross amount of such sales, as aforesaid, for the preceding
month; provided, that, in estimating such sales of goods,
wares, and merchandise, for the purpose of this section, any
sales made by or through another broker, upon which a tax had
been paid, shall not be estimated and included as sold by the
broker for whom the sale was made.
Doswell & Co., cotton brokers of New Orleans, having paid
a tax assessed against them under this statute, and made in
vain an appeal to the commissioner of internal revenue to
get back the m6ney paid, brought this suit against the collector, to whom they had paid it.
On the trial an agreed statement of facts was submitted
to the court, by which it appeared that the plaintiffs did not
sell any cotton or other goods, but limited themselves to
making purchases for those who required their services:
that the money was paid by their principals directly to the
parties who made the sales, and that-their compensation for
making the purchases was one-half of one per cent. paid by
the buyer, and one-fourth of one per cent. by the seller,
under a custom of the trade in New Orleans, established
when cotton brokers were sellers as well as buyers, and kept
up, though they were so no longer.
The case agreed on further showed that a tax on all the
* 14 Stat. at Large, 134.

THE COLLECTOR V. DOSWELL & Co.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

sales for which the plaintiffs were assessed, had been paid
by the parties making the sales.
The court below gave judgment for the plaintiff, and the
record of that judgment the government now brought here
for review.
Mr. G. I. Williams, Attorney- General, and Mr. S. F. Phillips, Solicitor-General, for the collector, plaintiff in error, submitted the case on a statement of it, and without argument.
Mr. Frederick Chase, contra.
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
That the plaintiffs did not make sales as commercial
brokers is too clear for argument. They acted wholly as
buyers and other parties as sellers. The per cent. paid them
by the sellers under the usage does not change their relation
to the transaction.
The section of the statute referred to provides for taxes in
a great variety of sales by bankers, brokers, and others, of
stocks, real estate, &c., but it is always a tax on sales, and
always collected of the seller, or his broker or agent.
It is stated in the agreement of facts submitted that a tax
on all the sales for which the plaintiffs were assessed had
been paid by the parties making the sales. This clearly relieved the plaintiffs from any obligation to pay this tax, if it
otherwise existed, under the proviso of the ninth section of
the statute.
It is so very clear, upon applying the statute to the agreed
statement of facts, that the transactions charged against the
plaintiffs were not sales, and not taxable to them, that it
cannot be made plainer by argument; and, while the law
officers of the government have furnished a brief statement
of the facts, they have neither cited the statute nor made an
argument against the right of the plaintiffs to recover.
The judgment of the Circuit Court in their favor is therefore
APnIRMED.

