414

UNITED STATES, LYON ET AL. V. HUCKABEE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

UNITED STATES, LYON ET AL. V. HUeKABEE.
1. *Where, under the Confiscation Act of August 6th, 1861, after a libel showing a case within the act, an amendid libel sets out a case which shows
that there can be no confiscation under the act, both libel and amended
libel should be dismissed.
2 The process prescribed by the Confiscation Acts cannot, by the union of
certain claimants of land proceeded against, with the United States,
otherwise than as informers, be made the means by which the conflicting titles to the land, between such person and other claimants, shall be
settled.
8. Where land was sold to the so-called " Confederate States " during the
rebellion, and was captured by the United States, it became on the extinction of the Confederacy, and without further proceeding, the property of the United States, and could be properly sold by them.
4. Such sale rendered any proceeding against the persons who owned the
land prior to sale to the " Confederate States," wholly improper.
5. Where the agents of the said Confederacy came to persons owning iron
works, and informed them that they must either contract to furnish
iron at a uniform price, or lease or sell the works to the Confederacy or
that they would be impressed, and the owners-then much in debtafter consultation-the works being already in charge of a guard from
the Confederacy, which possessed despotic power over skilful laborersconsidering that to IIcontract"I would cause a failure of their scheme,
and to lease would be ruinous, resolved to sell; Held, that such a sale
was not made under duress.
6. Where a subordinate court, which had no jurisdiction in the case, has given
judgment for the plaintiff or defendant, or improperly decreed affirmative relief to a claimant, an appellate court must reverse. It is not
enough to dismiss the suit.

to the Circuit Court for the Middle District of
Alabama; the case being thus:
In the year 1862, soon after the outbreak of the late rebellion, one C. C. Huckabee and three other persons, formed
under the general laws of Alabama a corporation called
"The Bibb County Iron Company;" iluckabee being president, and the other corporators, directors; and, with him,
the only stockholders. As the name of the corporation indicates, its object was the working in iron; its particular
machinery being such as made it capable of manufacturing
cannon, and other munitions of war. Rolling-mills were
erected, and lands, slaves, and mules bought.
ERROR

Dec. 1872.] "UNITED STATES,

LYON ET AL. V.

HUCKABEE.

415

Statement of the case.

When the company had thus got fairly going, the rebel
government sent one of its officers to Huckabee, the president, requiring him and the corporation to make a contract
with the Confederacy, to deliver iron to it at a uniform f.rice
named. [The iron had been furnished at the price named,
for some time before this, but no formal contract to furnish
it uniformly at that price existed.] Huckabee refused to
make any such contract. Finally, being sent for again by
the agents of the rebel government, he was told that the
agreement under which the iron was then furnished was not
a contract, and that he must make a contract. He then consulted with his stockholders, and the result was that the company refused to make any contract. He was then sent for a
third time, and told that the company must either contract
on government terms, or lease the works, or sell them to the
Confederate States, and that otherwise the works would be
impressed. The company resolved, after some weeks consideration, to sell. The influences which operated on the
owners, according to the statement of fluckabee, the.president, were these:
"We owed a large amount of money, about $300,000, and
our debts were increasing. We knew that if we contracted we
could not pay our debts and get back our capital. To lease
would have been ruinous; and as we had been informed that if
we did not either contract, lease, or sell, the works would be
impressed, we regarded it best to sell. I cannot say that there
could not have been other reasons influencing the minds of
other corporators than myself to join in the resolution authorizing the sale."
It appeared that during most of the time that the iron
company had been in operation, a guard from the rebel
army had been in control of it, so far as to see that it sent
no iron away except to the rebel authorities. And moreover that the rebel powers possessed an almost despotic
power over the whole body of skilful laborers in the region.
The sale was made, and a deed executed under the corporate seal and the hands of the president and all the other
corporators, three in number, September 13th, 1863. The

416

UNITED STATES, LYON ET AL. v. HUCKABEE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

consideration was $600,000, Confederate money, which was
duly paid, and after a discharge of the corporate debts, divided among the stockholders; the persons who had executed the deed. Confederate money was at this time worth
one-fourteenth of the same amount in Federal money.
The deed recited that at a meeting of all the stockholders,
held on September 9th, 1863, it was resolved unanimously
that the president be authorized, for the sum of $600,000,
to sell to the Confederate States all lands, negroes, mules,
&c., and to execute deeds of warranty; and that the party
of the second part agreed to pay the said sum for the said
property, provided the said stockholders united in the conceyance. The deed contained full covenants of warranty. More
than a month subsequently to its date, to wit, on the 25th
November, 1863, it was acknowledged before the probate
judge, as having been "executed voluntarily on the day of its
date."
The Confederate government from that time managed the
works, casting great quantities of cannon, shell, shot, and
other implements of war, which were used to maintain the
rebellion.
In March, 1865, the property was captured by the government army. It remained for a short time under the military
forces, and was then taken possession of by the Treasury
Department as captured and abandoned property, and the
rebel confederacy having become now extinct, on the 3d of
February, 1866, after public notice, was sold for $45,000 to
Francis Lyon, for himself and others, by the Commissioner of
the Bureau of Refugees, Freedmen, and Abandoned Lands,
under the authority of the President and Secretary of the
Treasury. Prior to the sale Lyon went to Huckabee and
asked him if the title was good. He said he believed it
was; and declined a suggestion of Lyon to take part in the
contemplated purchase (which he said he would like to do),
because he had not the money at the time. The sale having been made the money was paid, and a deed executed.
The sale was confirmed by act of Congress, approved December 15th, 1866, which "released and confirmed to the

Dec. 1872.]

UNITED STATES, LYON ET AL.

v. HUCKABEE.

417

Statement of the case.

said Lyon any interest which the United States had in the
land described."
Prior to all this, that is to say, on the 1st of October, 1865,
the District Attorney of the United States, describing himself as "prosecuting for the United States and an informer,"'
had exhibited an information in the District Court for the
Middle District of Alabama (in which the property was),
against it (describing it), "said to belong to the late so-called
Confederate States of America," and praying process tc
enforce the seizure, condemnation, and confiscation of tha
same.
This proceeding was made under the act of August 6th.,
1861, which enacts that if during the then existing rebellion,
"Any person or persons... shall purchase, or acquire, sell, or
with intent to use or employ the same,
give any property.
or suffer the same to be used and employed in aiding, abetting,
or promoting such insurrection or resistance to the laws, or any
person or persons engaged therein, or if any person or persons
being the owner or owners of any such property, shall knowingly use or employ, or consent to the use or employment of the
same as aforesaid, all such property is hereby declared to be
lawful subject of prize and capture wherever found; and it shall
be the duty of the President of the United States to cause thd
same to be seized, confiscated, and condemned.
"The Attorney-General or any district attorney of the United
States in which said property may at the time be, may institute the proceedings of condemnation, and in such case they
shall be wholly for the benefit of the United States; or any person may file an information with such attorney, in which case
the proceedings shall be for the use of such informer and the
United States in equal parts."
Things stood in this way from October 1st, 1865, when
this information was filed, till the 30th of May, 1866, when
On that
Lyon and his co-purchasers were in possession.
day, fluckabee and his co-corporators in the old Bibb
County Iron Company appeared as claimants of the property against which the information had been filed, asserting
that they and no other persons were "the true and legal
VOL. XVI.

27

418

UNITED STATES, LYoN ET AL. V. H UCKABEE.

[Sup.

Ct.

Statement of the ease.

owners" of it, and that the property had not been knowingly ut-ed and employed with the consent of the owners in
aiding, abetting, and promoting the rebellion, but, on the
contrary thereof, that the said property was built with the
money and labor of them, the said respondents, and for their
sole use, and was never voluntarily employed in the way alleged. They set up also that they had all been pardoned
for all participation in the rebellion.
On the 24th of October, 1866, the Assistant AttorneyGeneral of the United States wrote from Washington to
the District Attorney in Alabama to dismiss the proceedings in confiscation instituted by him, the property having
been sold to Mr. Lyon by the Commissioner of the Freedman's Bureau, " unless Mr. Lyon should prefer that, for the
purpose of securing and pe~fecting the title, he should desire
them to be continued for his own use and benefit; and in
ihat case the proceedings will be carried on in the name of the
United States, at the cost and charges of Mr.Lyon."
Soon after this, that is to say, on the 26th of November,
1866, and obviously with a view of carrying out the suggestion of securing and perfecting the title in Lyon, Lyon and
his co-purchasers came forward, and were made defendants.
They set out the original ownership of "The Bibb County
Iron Company," the sale by it to the Corrfederate States,
with the full knowledge of the purpose to which the property was to be applied, the capture, in March, 1865, of the
property by the Federal army, and the subsequent sale and
conveyance, by authority of the United States, to them.
An amended information was also filed, setting out pretty
much what was in the original one, but setting out in addition the capture of the property by the forces of the United States,
and the sale and conveyance by the government to Lyon and his
co-purchasers, the act of Congress confirming it, all fully and in
form, but still asking process of seizure, condemnation, and
confiscation as befoire.*
Lyon answered this amended information, setting out the
* The idea of Mr. Lyon apparently was that any tit:e which the United
States _ot by confiscation would inure to him by way of estoppel.

Dec. 1872.]

UNITED STATES, LYON ET AL. V. HUCKABEE.

419

Argument for the iron company.

history down to his deed, a copy of the deed, and a copy of
the act of Congress confirming his title.
Huckabee and his co-corporators also answered this
amended libel, setting up that "the so-called Confederate
States were not a legal government, but existed by mere
force and compulsion, and that it therefore never had any
capacity under the laws of the United States or under the
law of nations to acquire the title to lands ;" setting up also
that the deed given was executed under duress.
In this state of things the case came on for hearing, when
the District Court dismissed the libel and amended libel, and
made a decree vesting the property in Huckabee and his
ancient co-corporators or their assigns. From that decree
the United States and Lyon and his co-purchasers appealed.
Mr. . T. Morgan, in support of the decree below:
L The libel and amended libel were both rightly dismissed.
1. As to the amended libel. This is no more than an
effort to procure a confiscation under the statutes of the
property in confirmation of the title of Mr. Lyon. The original libel was by the United States and an informer. The
amended one is in reality by the United States, Lyon and
his co-purchasers (in the interest of him and them) against
Huckabee and the original owners. The amended answer
of Lyon is but a form, an admission of and support to the
main parts of the amended libel. But the Confiscation
Statutes are war measures, and the use of their great powers and of their extraordinary process for any purpose which
concerns only private interests is wholly anomalous and improper.
2. As to the original libel. The amended libel shows an
act of Congress approved 15th of December, 1866, by which
title is declared to be in the United States and to be granted
to Lyon. It destroys the case made in the original libel.
Nqo ground of confiscation by the government such as the
original libel sets up can therefore exist.
33. Admitting, for argument's sake, that the process prescribed in the, Confiscation Acts could be used 1-y private

420

UNITED STATES, LYoN ET AL. v. HUOKABEE.

[Sup.

Ct-

Argument for the iron company.

persons in the anomalous way attempted by Mr. Lyon, still
on his own showing he and his co-purchasers (who are, in
fact, complainants against Huckabee and his co-corporators)
have a perfectly good title. They allege a valid sale to the
Confederate government, the capture of the property by the
United States, the extinction of the Confederate government, and a sale to them by the United States confirmed by
Congress. They do not allege any claim by anybody, or any
cloud on their title. They seek to confiscate a title which,
according to their own showing, has no existence whatever.
If they have the perfectly good title that they allege they
have, then for any disturbance to their rights they have, of
course, a full, adequate, and complete remedy at law. The
fact that they may really feel, or even know, that they have
not a good title, and are seeking through the extraordinary
process of a confiscation to get one, does not alter the case,
so far as this proceeding is concerned.
H. The relief given to Huckabee and the original corporators
was rightly granted.
1. The power of the Confederate States to acquire title toa
lands must depend on their being a government. No legal
authority for their existence can be found. "Confederate
States" was the name merely for certain people engaged in
rebellion, a rebellion opposed by law as well as by arms
throughout the United States.*
The deed therefore which was made by Huckabee and
his associates passed no title to the Confederate States.
There was no grantee; no person or legal entity to receive.
The consideration was illegal. It was made for an illegal
purpose. It conveyed lands and other property for the express purpose of assisting the military operations of the
States in rebellion. It was made by persons engaged in
rebellion, contrary to the statutes of the United States prohibiting conveyances of property by such persons, and the
United States government, if it had the power, never waived
this violation of law, and confirmed the title, nor did it do
* United States v. Keehler, 9 Wallace, 86.

Dec. loT2.] UNITED

STATES, LYON ET AL.

V. HUcKABEE. 421

Argument for the purchaser.

any act that could be so construed until after the surrender,
and after it had proceeded in court to confiscate and condemn the lands so conveyed, setting up, in its proceeding,
the making of such conveyance as the ground of forfeiture.
Congress has never admitted that the government of the
United States acquired title to lands from or through the
Confederate States, either by capture, succession, or treaty.
Such an admission necessarily implies that the Confederate
States had enough of legal corporate capacity to hold a title
to lands; and this fact conceded, it must have had sovereignty, for it did not pretend to hold lands otherwise than
as a sovereign power.
2. The deed was made by duress. It was made under
such constraint as left-the grantors without that freedom of
,hoice and will that is essential in every contract. The
owners made all the resistance they could make when they
refused to contract. If they contracted, they could not pay
their debts and get their capital back. If they leased they
were "ruined." Nothing remained but to sell or be impressed. A rebel guard was in possession of the works.
.They sold. Did they not sell under duress?
The American cases, including the leading one of _oshay
v. Yergurson,* strongly support the doctrine that there is no
-sound distinction between cases of threat or mischief to
property, or to the person or good name, "because consent
'.s

of the essence of the contract, and where there is compul-

ion there is no consent," and there is compulsion when
one's .person or property is seriously threatened with misthief, or where "a man's necessities may be so great as not
to admit of the ordinary process of law, to afford him relief."t
M . P. Phillips, contra (for the plaintiff in error):
Conceding that Mr. Lyon could not try the validity, of
this title in the way in which he sought to do it, and that
5 Hill (New York), 158.
t Collins v. Westbury, 2 Bay, 211; Sospartas v. Jennings, I Id. 470

422

UNITED STATES, LYON ET AL.

v. HUCCABEE.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the purchaser.

the libel and amended libel were properly dismissed, how
did the court, after all, pass upon the title and award the
property to the counter-claimants? If the court had no
jurisdiction it ought to have dismissed the whole case; the
libel, amended libel, and all the claims, leaving all parties
just where they were originally.
For its deciding on the conflicting titles, its decree must
certainly be reversed, and the course we speak of pursued.
It is hoped, however, that the court may find fit opportunity in reversing this decree, to express its opinion on the
title set up by Eluckabee and others, and so give quiet to
the title which the government has conveyed to Lyon and
his associates; and in this hope, and in reply to what has
been said as to the merits of the title, we have to say:
The facts stated do not make duress any definition of that
word as given by this court in cases* which both say the
same thing, and only iterate old law.
The case of Foshay v. Fergurson,t relied on by the other
side, and which carries this doctrine to its greatest length,
is no support for the present case. The judge there says:
,,I do not intend to say that a man can avoid his bond on
the ground that it was procured by an illegal distress on his
goods; but I entertain no doubt that a contract procured by
threats and fears of battery, or the destruction of property, may
be avoided on the ground of duress."
In this case there was no destruction threatened, but only
irnpressn ent, which may be likened to a distress.
But if duress in fact existed this would not make the conveyance void, but voidable only, and a bond fide purchaser
for valuable consideration, without notice, would hold the
estate against the original grantor.J
And in such a transaction, if the party on whom the duress has been practiced stands by and allows the defendant
. Brown v. Pierce, 7 Wallace, 214; Baker v. Morton, 12 Id. 150.
j- 6 Hill, 168

Fletcher v. Peck, 6 Cranch, 133; Bean v. Smith, 2 Mason, 252, 272;
S.mcs v. Brewer, 2 Pickering, 184; Woods v. Mann, 1 Sumner, 509.

Dec. 1872.]

UNITED STATES, LYON ET AL. v. HUCKABRE.

42&

Argument for the purchaser.

to purchase, this will bar his right of recovery. Much less
will he be permitted to recover when on inquiry made by
the intended purchaser he advises him that his title is
good.*
And if a party seeks to set aside his conveyance rather
than to affirm it, he can only do so by a restoration of the
consideration received for it.t
Suppose the deed from the corporation could be avoided,
for duress, this could only be done by the corporationitself.
The corporation may and must appear by its constitutional
organs or curators. The appearance of each and every member is no appearance at all.t
In Broke's Abridgment, under the head of "Duress,"
(pl. 18) citing 21 Edward IV, 8,14, 15, we find the following:
" Dures ne poit este al corps politique, mes poit este al Maior de
faire chose apparetignanta son office, PER OPTIMEM OPINIONEm, car
il est teste del corporat. Imprisonment del teste del naturalcorps en
pillorie, est imprisonment de tout le corps, car entier."
And in Brownlow it is said that a husband may avoid a
deed on account of the duress upon his wife, and s6 a mayor
and commonalty may avoid a deed on account of duress of
imprisonment of the mayor, for there is identity of person.ยง
The title of the United States to the premises was acquired
by actual capture, and also by its right of succession to the
overthrown and extinct government. j
It is argued that the deed was absolutely void, because the
Confederate States were incapable of being a grantee-that
it was not "a person or legal eutity"-and being engaged
in rebellion was opposed by law as well as arms throughout
the United States.
* Doolittle v. McCullough, 7 Ohio State, 307.
J Harding v Handy, 11 Wheaton, 103; Norton v. Young, 3 Greenleaf,
33. Cushing v. Wyman, 38 Maine, 591; Cook v. Gilman, 34 New Hampshire, 556.
Broke; Title, Corporation, 28; Coke Lit., 66 B.
2 Brownlow, 276.
f See United States v. Padelford, 9 Wall]- ", 540; and United States v.
Klein, 13 Id. 136, 137.

424

UNITED STATES, LYoN
.ET

AL. V. HUCKABEE.

[Sup. Ct,

Restatement of the case in the opinion.

If the Confederate government was ineapax, in reference
to a deed for land, it was equally incapable of being a party
to any contract whatever, and yet we know as a fact that the
government of the United States has been maintaining suits
in foreign countries as the successor of the Confederate
States, and claiming rights through them, and has received
into the treasury millions of money derived from property
sold by others to them.
It is too late-if ever it was soon enough-to raise this
question; for this court, as early as 1868, in Thorington v.
Smith,* described the Confederate States as "a government,
called by publicists, a government defacto, but more aptly denominated a government of paramount force," and repeated
decisions since have affirmed the same principle.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Pleadings, in informations for seizures upon land, or for
confiscation of property, as well as in causes of admiralty or
maritime jurisdiction, or in actions at law, or suits in equity,
are governed by certain well-established rules of practice,
which require that the allegations shall correspond with the
facts as proved, and that the information, as in the case of a
libel, declaration, or bill of complaint, if filed in a Federal
court, shall show that the court has jurisdiction of the cause
of action.t Proper parties in all cases are also required, and
in all cases, except where there is a set-off or cross-action,
the damages or relief sought, if the cause of action is sustained, should be adjudged and awarded to the party promoting the suit and not to a stranger; and if the cause of
action is not sustained the judgment or decree should be for
the opposite party, whether respondent or defendant.
Laws were passed by Congress at the commencement of
the late rebellion, to prevent combinations to oppose the
laws of the United States, and to provide for the confiscation of property used in the insurrection, and to that end all
* 8 Wallace, 9.

8. McKinlay v. Morrish, 21 Howard, 346.

Dec. 1872.]

UNITED STATES, LYON ET AL. V. HUOKABEE.

425

Restatement of the case in the opinion.

persons were forbidden by an act of Congress to "purchase
or acquire, sell or give any property, of whatsoever kitd or
description, with intent to use or employ the same or suffer
the same to be used or employed in aiding, abetting, or promoting such insurrection or resistance to the laws, or any
person or persons engaged therein;" and the provision was,
that if any person, being the owner of any such property,
shall knowingly use or'employ or consent to the use or employment of the same as aforesaid, all such property shall be
the lawful subject of prize and capture wherever found, and
it was made the duty of the President to cause the same to
be seized, confiscated, and condemned.*
Pursuant to that act the district attorney exhibited an information against a certain tract of land, therein described,
containing three thousand six hundred acres, with the improvements thereon, known as the Bibb County Iron Works,
which belonged to the late Confederate States, and which,
as he alleges, had been previously seized by the marshal
under an order of seizure duly issued; and he also alleges
that the property had, for several years, been knowingly
used and employed by the owners, or with their consent, in
aiding, abetting, and promoting the late insurrection and
rebellion, and in aiding, abetting, and promoting persons
engaged in the insurrection, rebellion, and resistance to the
laws and authority of the United States, and that the property, during those years, had been knowingly used and employed by the owners, or with their consent, as a place for
the mining and manufacturing of iron ore into all kinds of
machinery and implements for military purposes by persons
engaged in armed rebellion and resistance to the laws and
public authorities, contrary to the statute in such case made
and provided. Service was made and the present defendants
appeared and claimed to be the true and lawful owners of
the property, and they deny in separate and distinct articles
in the answer every material allegation of the information.
Apart from that they also allege that they have severally
* 12 Stat. at Large, 319.

426

UNITED

STATES, LYON ET AL. V. HUOKABEE.

[Sup. Ct.

Restatement of the case in the opinion.

received special pardon and full amnesty from the President
for all past offences connected with the late war of the rebellion, and that they respectively have fully complied with all
the terms and conditions of the several pardons, and therefore that the property should be restored to them as the
rightful owners.
Prior to the rebellion the property in question was owned
by a corporation known as the Bibb County Iron Company,
and it appears that the present plaintifl, at this stage of the
litigation, entered their appearance in the suit, and being
admitted to become parties and make claim, they alleged
that the property belongs to them as the joint owners of the
same; that the original owners sold the property to the late
Confederate States for the sum of six hundred thousand
dollars and then and there received payment in full for the
same, and executed to the grantees a title-deed of the premises with full covenants of warranty, and that the purchasers
took full possession of the property with all the appurtenances appertaining to the same; and they also aver that
the grantors were fully advised of the objects and purposes
for which the property was purchased, which were to furnish the grantees with iron to be used in manufacturincg
arms and munitions of war to be used in prosecuting the
rebellion, and that the same was held, used, occupied, and
enjoyed by the grantees as the undisputed owners until the
same was captured by our military forces, having been used
throughout that period as the efficient means of furnishing
iron for arms, cannon-balls, and shells; that the property
was subsequently captured from the Confederate States by
our military forces and was put up and sold at public auction
by the Assistant Commissioner of the Bureau of Refugees,
Freedmen, and Abandoned Lands, who was authorized and
lawfully empowered to sell and convey the same in that
manner, and that the plaintiff claimants, or one of them, in
behalf of himself and the others, became the purchasers for
the sum of forty-five thousand dollars, that being the highest
and best bid made for the same, and that the said commissioner, being thereto duly authorized by the President and

Dec. 1872.]

UNITED STATES, LYON ET AL. v. HUCKABEE.

427

Restatement of the case in the opinion.

Secretary of the Treasury, conveyed the property to the
plaintiff clainiants.
Beyond doubt those allegations were entirely inconsistent
with the theory of the original information, as they show
that the property, at the time the information was' filed, was
vested in the grantees of the United States, by virtue of a
deed duly executed, and given for a valuable consideration
paid by the purchasers, who, it is admitted, have never committed any such acts of forfeiture as those charged in the
information. Allegations of the kind, however, are not sufficient without proof to oust the jurisdiction of the court.
But the district attorney subsequently filed an amended information, and he also alleges that the property was captured
from the Confederate States, and that the same was seized
by order of the President, and that it was, by his order and
that of the Secretary of the Treasury, sold to the highest
bidder as captured property belonging to the United States,
and that the same was purchased, as aforesaid, by the plaintiff claimants for the sum stated in the claim of the gran tees.
Such an averment in the information is sufficient proof of
the fact, as against the prosecutor, especially as he confirms
the allegation by referring to the act of Congress, which provides that any interest which the United States have in the
lands described in the deed . . . be and the same is hereby
released and confirmed to the said grantees.*
Absolute condemnation of the property to the United
States was claimed in the first pleading, but the district
attorney substantially admits, in the amended information,
that no such decree can be entered, as he avers that the
property is liable to condemnation, in confirmation of the
title of the grantees under the United States, which would
be a proceeding wholly without precedent in the jurisprudence of the United States.
Responsive to that, the present defendants filed an amended
answer excepting to the amended information; because it
* 14 Stat. at Large, 616.

428

UNITED STATES, LYON ET AL. T.. !UCKABEE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

appears that the United States have no longer any interest
in the prosecution, as they have released their right in the
property to the other claimants, and because the jurisdiction
of the court is ousted as relates to the property sought to be
condemned.
It also appears that 0. 0. Huckabee, one of the present
defendants, filed a separate answer, in which he alleges that
he is the sole owner of a certain described portion of the
lands mentioned in the information; and he also avers that
the deed conveying the same to the Confederate States,
which he and his associates gave, was executed under duress, and in obedience to the commands of an unlawful
power, which neither he nor they could resist, and that the
deed is void on that account; and he denies that the lands
were ever captured by our military forces, or that the lands
were ever seized under any warrant of seizure, as alleged in
the information. Hearing was had upon the merits before
the court, the parties having waived a jury and filed a stipulation to that effect. Witnesses were examined and other
proofs were introduced, and the court entered a decree dismissing both the original and the amended informations.
Such a decree is usually regarded as exhausting the jurisdiction of the court, except in maritime cases, where there
is a fund in the registry of the court to be restored to the
rightful owner, but the court in this case proceeded to adjudge and decree that the claim of C. C. Huckabee, one of
the defendants, be allowed and sustained to certain rights
and privileges therein mentioned, including all the timber
on a described portion of the lands, and the right of cutting and transporting the same, and that the title to the
said described lands be adjudged to be in the said claimant,
and that the marshal restore the possession of the said lands
to the said claimant, and that the claim of all the defendants
be sustained and allowed to another described portion of the
lands in controversy, including also the right to the timber
for certain purposes, and to the iron-ore in certain described
localities; and it was also adjudged and decreed that the

Dec. 1872.]

UNITED STATES, LYON ET AL. V. HUCKABEE.

429

Restatement of the case in the opinion.

present plaintiffs, except the United States, should pay the
costs of the suit. Exceptions were taken by the present
plaintiffs to the rulings of the court and to the decree, and
they sued out the present writ of error.
Evidence of the most satisfactory character, consisting of
the deed signed by the corporation and by the several defendants, who owned all of the stock of the company, was
introduced by the United States to show that the lauds and
improvements in question were conveyed by the original
owners to the Confederate States, and that the purchasers
paid to the grantors the agreed consideration of six hundred
thousand dollars, and it appeared that they entered into full
possession of the premises and used and employed the lands
and improvements for the purposes alleged in the amended.
information. Equally satisfactory evidence was also introduced by the United States to show that the entire property'
was captured by our military forces during the war of the
rebellion, and that the whole premises were sold under the
orders of the President, as alleged, and that the same were
conveyed by the commissioner who conducted the sale for
the consideration of forty-five thousand dollars to the plain-,
tiff claimants, or to one of them, for his benefit and that of
his associates.
Subsequent to the capture by our military forces, the possession of the lands and improvements was continued in the,
United States, until the sale and conveyance by the said
commissioner to the present grantees, on the third of February, 1866, at which time they received possession of the
premises from the commissioner, and have continued in pos-,
session of the same to the present time, under an absolute
deed from the commissioner, conveying to the grantees all
the right, title, and interest which the United States bad in
the property at the time of the sale and conveyance, which
conveyance has since been confirmed by an act of Congress.*
Four principal grounds are assumed by the present de-.
* 14 Stat. at Large, 616.

430

UNITED STATES, LYON ET AL. V. HUcKABEE.

[Sup. Ot.

Opinion of the court.

fendants in support of the decree dismissing the informations, and the supplemental decree granting affirmative relief
to the present defendants: (1.) That private persons, other
than mere informers, cannot join with the United States in
prosecuting an information for the confiscation of property,
nor can the United States prosecute such a suit for the mere
purpose of confirming the title of a third party. (2.) That
the jurisdiction of the court was ousted by the sale and conveyance of the property to thb grantees in the deed from the
said commissioner, it also appearing that the conveyance was
subsequently confirmed by an act of Congress. (3.) That
the property was not subject to capture by our military
forces, as the deed from the original owners to the Confederate States was void, having been executed by the o~vners
of the property under duress. (4.) That if the grantees
under the United States have a good title, then the court
below had no jurisdiction of the case, as they have, if disturbed in their possession, a plain, adequate, and complete
remedy at law.
Enough appears in the act of Congress forbidding the
owners of property to use and employ it or to suffer it to
be used and employed for such a purpose, with their consent,
to show that the first objection is well taken, as it is made
the duty of the President to cause the same to be seized,
confiscated, and condemned, and the provision is that the
proceedings for condemnation may be instituted by the attorney-general or by the district attorney of the proper district, and that the proceedings instituted by those officers
"shall be wholly for the benefit of the United States ;" nor
is the force of the objection in any degree obviated by the
fact that the same section of the act provides that any person
may file an information with one of those officers, and that,
in that state of the case, "the proceedings shall be for the
use of such informer and the United States in equal parts,"
as it is clear that the latter clause of the section affords no
support to the theory that private persons, other than an
informer, may join with the United States in prosecuting

Dec. 1872.]

IUNITED STATES, LYON ET AL. V. HUCKABEE.

431

Opinion of the court.

-

such an information, or that the United States may prosecute -such a suit for the mere purpose of confirming the title
of a third party.*
Informations of the kind should propound in distinct articles the causes of forfeiture, and should aver that the same
are contrary to the form of the statute in such case madeand provided, and the rule is that inasmuch as the information is in the nature of a criminal proceeding, the allegations must conform strictly to the statute upon which it is
founded, which is sufficient to show that the theory of the
amended information cannot be sustained.t
2. Property owned by the United States certainly is not
subject to confiscation under the information in this case,
and inasmuch as it appears that the property was seized,
sold, and conveyed by the order of the President, as alleged
in the amended information, and that the conveyance so
made has been confirmed by an act of Congress, the second
objection must also be sustained, as it must be assumed, in
view of what is alleged in the information and fully proved,
that the property at the time of the sale and conveyance belonged to the United States.
3. Duress, it must be admitted, is a good defence to a deed,
or any other written obligation, if it be proved that the instrument was procured by such means; nor is it necessary
to show, in order to establish such a defence, that actual
violence was used, because consent is the very essence of a
contract, and if there be compulsion there is no binding consent, and it is well settled that moral compulsion, such as
that produced by threats to take life or to inflict great bodily
harm, as well as that produced by imprisonment, is sufficient
in legal contemplation to destroy free agency, without which
there can be no contract, because in that state of the case
* 12 Stat. at Large, 319; Confiscation Cases, 7 Wallace, 462; Jecker

"

Montgomery, 18 Howard, 124; 2 Parsons on Shipping, 35; The Betsy, 1
Mason, 354.
t The Hoppet, 7 Cranch, 389; The Caroline, Ib. 500; The Charles, I
Brockenborough, 347; The Mary Ann, 8 Wheaton, 380; 2 Parsons 31. Law
681.

432

UNITED STATES, LYON ET AL. v. HUCKABEE.

[Sup. Ot.

Opinion of the court.

there is no consent.* Unlawful duress is a good defence to
a contract if it includes such degree of constraint or danger,
either actually inflicted or threatened and impending, as is
sufficient in severity or apprehension to overcome the mind
and will of a person of ordinary firmness.t Decided cases
may be found which deny that contracts procured by menace
of a mere battery to the person, or of trespass to lands,
or loss of goods, can be avoided on that account, as such
threats it is said are not of a nature to overcome the will of
a firm and prudent man; but many other decisions of high
authority adopt a more liberal rule, and hold that contracts
procured by threats of battery to the person, or of destruction of property, may be avoided by proof of such facts, because, in such a case, there is nothing but the form of a,
contract without the substance.t Positive menace of battery
to the person, or of trespass to lands, or of destruction of
goods, may undoubtedly be, in many cases, sufficient to
overcome the mind and will of a person entirely competent,
in all other respects, to contract, and it is clear that a contract made under such circumstances, is as utterly without
the voluntary consent of the party menaced, as if he were
induced to sign it by actual violence; nor is the reason assigned for the more stringent rule, that he should rely upon
the law for redress, satisfactory, as the law may not afford
him anything like a sufficient and adequate compensation
for the injury.ยง Much discussion of the topic, however, is
unnecessary, as the record does not exhibit any sufficient
evidence, in either point of view, to support such a defence or
to warrant the court in finding for the defendants upon any
such ground, which is all that need be said upon the subject,
as it is obvious that that objection cannot be sustained.1j
* Brown v. Pierce, 7 Wallace, 214.

t Chitty on Contracts, 217; 2 Greenleaf on Evidence, 283.
1 Foshay v. Fergurson, 5 Hill, 158; Central Bank v. Copeland, 18 Maryland, 317; Eadie v. 6limmon, 26 New York, 12; 1 Story's Equity Jurisprudence, 9th ed. 239.
Baker v. Morton, 12 Wallace, 158.
11Ryder Wombwell Law Reports, 4 Exchequer, 39; Giblin v. McMullen,
Law Reports, 2 Privy Council Appeals, 335.

Dec. 1872.]

UNITED STATES, LYON ET AL.

V.

HUCKABEE.

483

Opinion of the court.

4. Argument to show that the court below had no jurisdiction of the case if the plaintiff claimants had a good title
to the premises, is hardly necessary, as both the pleadings
and evidence show that they were in the possession of the
lands and improvements when the prosecution was com-menced. Sufficient has been remarked to show that their
title is a good one as against the United States, and it is quite
clear that the present defendants do not have any such standing in the pleadings in this information as to give them tb,
right to call it in question, as the suit is one in the nam
and for the benefit of the United States.* Such being thi
character of the suit, the mistake of the district attorney it,
supposing that it might be prosecuted to confirm the title
of the plaintiff claimants, cannot have the effect to give the
court any jurisdiction of the case, much less to give the court
jurisdiction to determine that the title to the premises is in
the defendants and to eject the plaintiffs, holding under the
United States, and to decree that the possession of the lands
and improvements shall be delivered to the defendants.
What the district attorney expected to accomplish by continuing to prosecute the information after the seizure and
sale of the property by the United States is not perfectly certain, unless he supposed the court might treat the information as one in the nature of a bill in equity to remove a
cloud upon the title of the grantees under the United States,
arising from the pretence of the present defendants that the
deed which they executed to the Confederate States was void
as having been procured by duress. Concede that, still it is
evident that it was an attempt to accomplish what the court
under such a pleading had no jurisdiction to grant, as the
parties interested were citizens of the same State, and no
such issue was alleged in the information, and if there had
been, and the parties had been citizens of difirent States,
it would nevertheless be clear that the court could not grant
any such relief under any process founded upon the act of
Congress, entitled an act to confiscate property.t Doubtless
* Confiscation Cases, 7 Wallace, 462.

VOL. XwI.

28

t

12 Stat. at Large, 819.

434

UNITED STATES, LYON ET AL.

V. HUCKABEE.

[SUp. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

a bill in equity would lie, in a proper court, to remove a
cloud upon their title, but it is obvious that for any encroachment upon their possessions they had a plain, adequate, and complete remedy at law. They claimed title
under the United States, and the record shows that the title
of the United States was derived by conquest from the government of the late Confederate States. Our military forces
captured the property while it was in the possession of the
Confederate States as means for prosecuting the war of the
rebellion, and it appears that the captors took immediate
possession of the property and continued to occupy it under
the directions of the executive authority until the government of the Confederate States ceased to exist and the unlawful confederation became extinct, when it was sold by
the orders of the executive and conveyed to the plaintiff
claimants.
All captures in war vest primarily in the sovereign, but
in respect to real property, Chancellor Kent says, the acquisition by the conqueror is not fully consummated until confirmed by a treaty of peace, or by the entire submission or
destruction of the state to which it belonged, which latter
rule controls the question in the case before the court, as the
confederation having been utterly destroyed no treaty of
peace was or could be made, as a treaty requires at least two
contracting parties.* Power to acquire territory either by
conquest or treaty is vested by the Constitution in the United
States. Conquered territory, however, is usually held as a
mnere military occupation until the fate of the nation from
,v.hich it is conquered is determined, but if the nation is entirely subdued, or in case it be destroyed and ceases to exist,
the right of occupation becomes permanent, and the title
vests absolutely in the conqueror.t Complete conquest, by
-x 1 Kent's Commentaries (11th ed.), 110; Lawrence's Wheaton (2d ed.),
5; United States v. Percheman, 7 Peters, 86.
- Insurance Co. v. Canter, 1 Peters, 511; Hogsheads of Sugar v. Boyle, 9
(]ranch, 195; Shanks v. Dupont, 3 Peters, 246; United States v. Rice, 4
Wheaton, 254; The Amy Warwick, 2 Sprague, 143; Johnson v. McIntosh,
8 Wheaton, 588.

Dec. 1872.]

UNITED STATES, LYoN ET AL.

v.

HUCKABEE.

485

Opinion of the court.

whatever mode it may be perfected, carries with it all the
rights of the former government, or in other words, the
conqueror, by the completion of his conquest, becomes the
absolute owner of the property conquered from the enemy,
nation, or state. His rights are no longer limited to mere
occupation of what he has taken into his actual possession,
but they extend to all the property and rights of the conquered state, including even debts as well as personal and
real property.*
Tested by these considerations, it must be assumed for the
further purposes of this investigation that the title acquired
by the plaintiff claimants from the United States was a valid
title, and if so, then it is clear that the court below had no
jurisdiction of the cause of action alleged in the information, as the plaintiffs, if disturbed in their possession of the
premises, had a plain, adequate, and complete remedy at law.
Discussion of that rule of decision at this time, however, is
unnecessary, as the whole subject was considered by this
court in a recent case, to which reference is made as one entirely applicable in principle to the case before the court.t
Numerous exceptions were taken by the plaintiffs to the
rulings of the court in admitting and rejecting evidence,
several of which it is obvious were erroneous, but in the
view taken of the case it is not necessary to. re-examine any
such questions, as the court is of the opinion that the court
below had no jurisdiction to render any decree in the case
upon the merits of the controversy.
Usually where a court has no jurisdiction of a case, the
correct practice is to dismiss t~e suit, but a different rule
necessarily prevails in an appellate court in cases where the
subordinate court was without jurisdiction and has given
* Halleck's International Law, 889; Elphinstone v. Bedreechund, 1
Knapp's Privy Council Cases, 829; Vattel, 365; 3 Phillmore's International Law, 505.
t Insurance Co. v. Bailey, 13 Wallace, 621; Hipp v. Babin, 19 Howard;
271.

WVALKER V. IIENSHAW.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

judgment or decree for the plaintiff or improperly decreed
affirmative relief to a claimant. In such a case the judgment or decree in the court below must be reversed, else
the party which prevailed there would have the benefit of
such judgment or decree, though rendered by a court which
had no authority to hear and determine the matter in controversy.
DECREE IN ALL THINGS REVERSED for the want of jurisdiction in the court below, and the cause remanded with directions to dismiss the case, including the original and amended
informations, and the claims of all the claimants.

WALKER V. HENSHAW.
Prior to the 9th of July, 1858, when the President set apart the surplus of
land which remained after the Shawnee Indians had obtained their complement under the treaty of the United States with them, ratified November 2d, 1854, and opened such surplus to pre-emption and settlement, an Indian of the Wyandotte tribe could not locate "a float" held
by him under the treaties of the United States made with his tribe October 5th, 1842, and 1st of March, 1855.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of Kansas; the case being
thus:
Walker and others brought an action under the civil code
of Kansas to try title to and get possession of a section of
land in Douglas County, Kansas, being "parcel of the lands.
ceded to the United States by the Shawnee tribe of Indians,
by treaty ratified November 2d, 1854,* and lying between
the Missouri State line and a line parallel thereto and west
of the same thirty miles distant."
The condition of these lands, as gathered from the provisions of certain Indian treaties and the laws of Congress,
was as follows:
* 10 Stat. at Large, 1056.

