366

TAYLOR

v.

[Sup. Ct.

TAINTOR.

Syllabus.

Jurisdiction is authority to hear and determine. It is an
axiomatic proposition that when jurisdiction has attached,
whatever errors may subsequently occur in its exercise, the
proceeding being coramjudice, can be impeached collaterally
only for fraud. In all other respects it is as conclusive as if
it were irreversible in a proceeding for error. The order of
sale before us is within this rule. Grignon's Lessee v. Astor
el al.* was, like this, a case of a §ale by an administrator.
In that case this court said: "The purchaser under it is not
bound to look beyond the decree. If there is error in it of
the most palpable kind, if the court which rendered it have,
in the exercise of jurisdiction, disregarded, misconstrued, or
disobeyed the plain provisions of the law which gave them
the power to hear and determine the case before them, the
title of the purchaser is as much protected as if the adjudication would stand the test of a writ of error; and so where
an appeal is given, but not taken, in the time allowed by
law." This case and the case of Voorhees v. The Bank of the
United Statest are the leading authorities in this court upon
the subject. Other and later cases have followed and been
controlled by them. Slow v. Kimball$ affirms the same doc-

trine.

JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

TAYLOR V. TAINTOR, TREASURER.
1. When the bail of a party arrested by order of a State court of one State
on information for a crime, and released from custody under his own
and his bail's recognizance that he will appear at a day fixed and abide
the order and judgment of the court on process from which he has been
arrested, have suffered him to go into another State, and while there he
is, after the forfeiture of the recognizance, delivered up (under the second section of the fourth article of the Constitution and the act of February 12th, 1793, passed to give effect to it) on the requisition of the
governor of a third State for a crime committed (without the knowledge of the bail) in it,and is tried, convicted, and imprisoned in such
third State, the bail are not discharged from liability on their recogni* 2 Howard, 341.

t 10 :Peters, 449.

t28 Illinois, 93.

Dec. 1872.]

TAYLOR v. TAINTOR.

Statement of the case in the opinion.
zance on suit by the State where the person was first arrested. There
has been no such "act of the law" in the case as will discharge bail.
The law which renders the performance impossible, and therefore excuses failure, must be a law operative in the State where the obligation
was assumed, and obligatory in its effect upon her authorities.
2. The fact that there has been placed in the hands of the bail, by some one,
not the person arrested nor any one in his behalf, nor so far as the bail
knew, with his knowledge, a sum of money equivalent to that for which
the bail and himself were bound, has no effect, in a suit against te bail,
on the rights of the parties.

IN error to the Supreme Court of Errors of the State of
Connecticut; in which court William Taylor, Barnabas
Allen, and one EdwardMcGuire were plaintifis in error,
and Taintor, Treasurer of the State of Connecticut, was
defendant in error. The case arose under that clause of
the Federal Constitution* which ordains that
"A person charged in any State with treason, felony, or other
-rime, who shall flee from justice and be found in another State,
shall, on demand of the executive authority of the State from
which he fled, be delivered up to be removed to the State having jurisdiction of the crime,"
and under the act of Congress passed February 12th, 1793,
to carry into effect this provision, and which makes it the
duty of the executive of the State or Territory to which a
person charged with one of the crimes mentioned has fled,
upon proper demand to cause the fugitive to be arrested and
delivered up.
Mr. X. W. Seymour, for the plaintiff in error; Messrs. S. B.
Beardsley and N. L. White, contra.
Mr. Justice SWAYNE stated the facts of the case and
delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error, issued under the 25th section of
the Judiciary Act of 1789, to the Supreme Court of Errors
of the State of Connecticut.
The attorney of the State for the county of Fairfield pre.
* Article 4, section 2.

TAYLOR

r.

TAINTOR.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case in the opinion.

sented to the Superior Court for that county, at the August
term, 1866, an information charging Edward McGuire with
the crime of grand larceny. A bench warrant, returnable
to the same term, was thereupon issued. McGuire was arrested and held in custody. The court fixed the amount of
bail to be given at $8000. On the 24th of September, 1866,
McGuire and the other plaintiffs in error entered into a
recognizance to the defendant in error in that sum, conditioned that McGuire should appear before the Superior
Court, to be held at Danbury, in Fairfield County, on the
third Tuesday of October, 1866, to answer to the information
before mentioned, and abide the order and judgment of the
court. MeGuire was thereupon released from custody. He
failed to appear according to the condition of the recognizance, and it was duly forfeited on the 16th of October,
1866.
This suit was thereupon instituted in the Superior Court
of Fairfield County to recover the amount of the obligation.
The facts developed at the trial, and relied upon by the defendants to defeat the action were, according to the practice
in that State, found and certified by the court, and became
a part of the record. So far as it is necessary to state them,
they are as follows:
After the recognizance was entered into McGuire went
into the State of New York, where he belonged. While
there, upon a requisition from the governor of Maine upon
the governor of New York, he was seized by the legal officers of New York, and was by them forthwith, on the 19th
of October, 1866, delivered over to the proper officers of the
State of Maine, by whom he was immediately and against
his will removed to that State. The requisition charged a
burglary alleged to have been committed by McGuire in
Maine before the recognizance in question in this case was
taken. At the time of the forfeiture of the recognizance
McGuire was, and he has been ever since, legally imprisoned in Maine. In June, 1867, he was tried there for the
burglary charged in the requisition, and convicted and sentenced to confinement in the penitentiary for fifteen years,

Dec. 1872.]

TAYLOR V. TAINTOR;

Opinion of the court.

and was) at the time of the trial of this case in the court
below, serving out his time under that sentence. Neither
of the sureties knew, when they entered into the recognizance, that there was any charge of crime against McGuire
other than the one alleged in the information in Connecticut. If the testimony were admissible, the plaintiff proved
that the sum of $8000 was placed in the hands of the sureties to indemnify them against the liability they assumed,
and if the testimony were admissible, the sureties prove(
that the money was not placed in their hands by McGuire
nor by any one in his behalf; and that, so far as the suretiei
knew, it was done without his knowledge.
The Superior Court gave judgment for the plaibtiff
The defendants thereupon removed the case to the Supreme
Court of Errors for Fairfield County. That court affirmed
the judgment, and the defendants thereupon brought this
writ of error.
The fact that the sureties were indemnified was proper to
be considered by the Superior Court upon an application for
time to produce the body of McGuire.* But it could have
no effect upon the rights of the parties in this action, and
may therefore be laid out of view.
It is the settled law of this class of cases that the bail will
be exonerated where the performance of the condition is
rendered impossible by the act of God, the act of the obligee, or the act of the law.t Where the principal dies before the day of performance, the case is within the first
category. Where the court before which the principal is
bound to appear is abolished without qualification, the case
is within the second. If the principal is arrested in the
State where the obligation is given and sent out of the
State by the governor, upon the requisition of the governor
* Bank of Geneva v. Reynolds, 12 Abbott's Practice Reports, 81; Same v.
Reynolds et a]., 20 Howard's Practice Reports, 18.
t People v. Bartlett, 3 Hill, 571 ; Coke Littleton, 206, a; Bacon's Abridgment, tit. "Conditions," (2); Viner's Abridgment, tit. "Condition," (Ge.)
pl. 18, 19, and (I. c.) pl. 16; Hurlstone on Bonds, 48.
24
VOL. XV1.

TAYLOR v. TAINTOh.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

of another State, it is within the third.* In such cases the
governor acts in his official character, and represents the
sovereignty of the State in giving efficacy to the Constitution of the United States and the law of Congress. If he
refuse, there is no means of compulsion.t But if he act,
and the fugitive is surrendered, the State whence he is removed can no longer require his appearance before her tribunals, and all obligations which she has taken to secure that
result thereupon at once, ipsofacto, lose their binding effect.
The authorities last referred to proceed upon this principle.
It is equally well settled that if the impossibility be created by the obligor or a stranger, the rights of the obligee
vill be in nowise affected.T And there is "a distinction
between the act of the law proper and the act of the obligor,
which exposes him to the control and action of the law."§
While the former exonerates, the latter gives no immunity.
It is the willing act of the obligor which creates the obstacle,
and the legal effect is the same as of any other act of his,
which puts performance out of his power. This applies
only where the accused has been convicted and sentenced.
Before judgment-non consta-but that he may be innocent.
Where a State court and a court of the United States may
each take jurisdiction, the tribunal which first gets it holds
it to the exclusion of the other, until its duty is fully performed and the jurisdiction invoked is exhausted: and this
rule applies alike in both civil and criminal cases.11 It is
indeed a principle of universal jurisprudence that where jurisdiction has attached to person or thing, it is-unless there
is some provision to the contrary-exclusive in effect until
it has wrought its function.
Where a demand is properly made by the governor of oUE
* State v. Allen, 2 Humphreys, 258; Devine v. State, 6 Sneed, 626; State
w. Adams, 3 Head. 260.
-t Kentucky v. Dennison, 24 Howard, 66.
: People v. Bartlett, 3 Hill, 570.
United States v. Van Fossen, 1 Dillon, 409.
Hagan v. Lucas, 10 Peters, 400; Taylor v. Carryl, 20 Howard, 584
Troutman's case, 4 Zabriskie, 634; Ex parte Jenkins & Crosson, 2 Americai
Law Register, 144.

Dec. 1872.]

TAYLOR v. TAINTOR.
Opinion of the court.

-State upon the governor of another, the duty to surrender
is not absolute and unqualified. It depends upon the circumstances of the case. If the laws of the latter State have
been put in force against the fugitive, and he is imprisoned
there, the demands of those laws may first be satisfied. The
duty of obedience then arises,*and not before. In the case
of Troutman, cited supra, the accused was imprisoned in a
civil case. It was held that he ought not to be delivered
up until the imprisonment had legally come to an end. It
was said that the Constitution and law refer to fugitives at
large, in relation to whom there is no conflict of jurisdiction.
The law which renders the performance impossible, and
therefore excuses failure, must be a law operative in the
State where the obligation was assumed, and obligatory in
after the instrument is
its effect upon her authorities. If,
executed, the principal is imprisoned in another State for
the violation of a criminal law of that State, it will not avail
to protect him or his sureties. Such is now the settled rule.*
When bail is given, the principal is regarded as delivered
to the custody of his sureties. Their dominion is a continuance of the original imprisonment. Whenever they choose
to do so, they may seize him and deliver him up in their
discharge; and if that cannot be done at once, they may imprison him until it can be done. They may exercise their
rights in person or by agent. They may pursue him into
another State; may arrest him on the Sabbath; and, if necessary, may break and enter his house for that purpose.
The seizure is not made by virtue of new process. None
is needed. It is likened to the rearrest by the sheriff of an
escaping prisoner.t In 6 ModernJ it is said: "The bail
W
Withrow v. The Commonwealth, 1 Bush. (Kentucky), 17; United States
v. Van Fossen, 1 Dillon, 406; Devine v. The State, 5 Sneed, 625; United
States v. French, 1 Gallison, 1; Grant v.Fagan, 4 East, 190.
-t 8 Blackstone's Commentaries, 290; Nicolls v.Ingersoll, 7 Johnson, 152;
Ruggles v. Corry, 3 Connecticet, 84, 421; Respublica v. Gaoler, 2 Yeates,
263; 8 Pickering, 140; Boardman & Hunt v . Fowler, 1 Johnson's Cases, 413;

Commonwealth v.- Riddle, 1 Sergeant & lRawle, 311; Wheeler v. Wheeler,
7 Massachusetts, 169.
* Page 231, Case 339, Anon.

TAYLOR V. TAINTOR.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

have their principal on a string, and may pull the string
whenever they please, and render him in their discharge."
The rights of the bail in civil and criminal cases are the
same.* They may doubtless permit him to go beyond the
limits of the State within which he is to answer, but it is
unwise and imprudent to do so; and if any evil ensue, they
must bear the burden of the consequences, and cannot cast
them upon the obligee.t
In the case of Devine v. The State,T the court, speaking of
the principal, say, "The sureties had the control of his person; they were bound at their peril to keep him within
their jurisdiction, and to have his person ready to surrender
when demanded. . . . In the case before us, the failure of
the sureties to surrender their principal, was, in the view of
the law, the result of their own negligence or connivance,
in suffering their principal to go beyond the jurisdiction of
the court and from under their control." The other authorities cited are to the same effect.
The plaintiffs in error were not entitled to be exonerated
for several reasons:
When the recognizance was forfeited for the non-appearance of McGuire, the action of the governor of New York,
pursuant to the requisition of the governor of Maine, had
spent its force and had come to an end. McGuire was then
held in custody under the law of Maine to answer to a
criminal charge pending there against him. This, as already
stated, cannot avail the plaintiffs in error. The shortness
of the time that intervened between the arrest in New York
and the imprisonment in Maine on the one hand, and the
failure and forfeiture in Connecticut on the other, are entirely immaterial. Whether the time were longer or shorterone year or one day-the legal principle involved is the same,
and the legal result must be the same.
If McGuire had remained in Connecticut he would proba* Harp v. Osgood, 2 Hill, 218.
t Devine v. The State, 5 Sneed, 625; United States v. Von Fossen, I Dillon, 410; Respublica v. Gaoler, 2 Yeates, 265, cited supra.
1 5 Sneed, 625.

:Dec. 1872.]

TAYLOR V. TAINTOR.

Opinion of the court.

bly not have been delivered over to the authorities of Maine,
and would not, therefore, have been disabled to fulfil the
condition of his obligation. If the demand had been made
upon the governor of Connecticut, he might properly have
declined to comply until the criminal justice of his own
State had been satisfied. This right, it is not to be doubted,
he would have exercised. Had he failed to do so, the obligation of the recognizance would have been released. The
plaintiffs in error are in fault for the departure from Connecticut, and they must take the consequences. But their
fault reached further. Having permitted their principal to
go to New York, it was their duty to be aware of his arrest
when it occurred, and to interpose their claim to his custody.*
We have shown that when McGuire was arrested in New
York the original imprisonment, under the information in
Connecticut, was continued; that the bail had a right to
:seize him wherever they could find him; that the prosecution in Connecticut was still pending, and that the Superior Court having acquired jurisdiction, it could neither be
arrested nor suspended in invitum by any other tribunal.
Though beyond the jurisdiction of Connecticut, he was still
through his bail in the hands of the law of that State, and
.eld to answer there for the offence with which he was
-cbarged. Had the facts been made known to the executive
-c.f New York by tbe sureties at the proper time; it is to be
aesumed he would have ordered McGuire to be delivered
:o them and not to the authorities of Maine. The result is
due, not to the Constitution and law of the United States,
but to their own supineness and neglect. Under the circumstances they can have no standing in court to maintain this
objectiou.
The act of the governor of New York, in making the
surrender, was not "the act of the law" within the legal
meaning of those terms; but in the view of the law was
tte act of McGuire himself. He violated the law of Maine,
ia~id thus put in motion the machinery provided to bring
-

* A guire v. The Commonwealth, 3 Ben. Monroe, 349, 851.

TAYLOR

v.

TAINTOR.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

him within the reach of the punishment denounced for his
offence. But for this that machinery, so far as he was concerned, would have remained dormant. To hold that the
surrender was the act of the law, in the sense contended for,
would be as illogical as to insist that the blow of an instrument used in the commission of a crime of violence, is the
act of the instrument and not of the criminal. It is true
that in one case there would. be a will and purpose as to the
result in question, which would be wanting in the other, but
there would be in both, the relation of cause and effect, and
that is sufficient for the purposes of the analogy. The principal in the case before us, cannot be allowed to avail himself of an impossibility of performance thus created; and
what will not avail him cannot avail his sureties. His contract is identical with theirs. They undertook for him what
he undertook for himself.
The act of the governor of INew York was the act of a
stranger.
It is true that the constitutional provision and the law of
Congress, under which the arrest and delivery were made,
are obligatory upon every State and a part of the law of
every State. But the duty enjoined is several and not joint;
and every governor acts separately and independently for
himself. There can be no joint demand and no joint neglect or refusal. In the event of refusal, the State making
the demand must submit. There is no alternative. In the
case of McGuire no impediment appeared to the governor
of New York, and he properly yielded obedience. The
governor of Connecticut, if applied to, might have rightfully postponed compliance. If advised in season he might
have intervened and by a requisition have asserted the claim
of Connecticut. It would then have been for the governor
of INew York to decide 'between the conflicting demands.
Whatever the decision-if the proceedings were regularit would have been conclusive. There could have been no
review and no inquiry going behind it.* We cannot hold
* The matter of Clark, 9 Wendell, 221; Ex parte Jenkins & Orosson.
aupia,p. 370, note ]j.

:Dec. 1872.]

TAYLOR V. TAINTOR.

Opinion of Field, Clifford, and Miller, JJ., dissenting.

that Connecticut was in any sense a party or consenting to
what was done in New York.- It follows that if McGuire
had been held in custody in New York, at the time fixed for
his appearance in Connecticut, it would not in anywise have
affected the obligation of the recognizance.
A different doctrine would be fraught with mischief. It
could hardly fail, by fraud and connivance, to lead frequently
to abuses, involving the escape of offenders of a high grade,
with pecuniary immunity to themselves and their sureties.
Every violation of the criminal laws of a State is within the
meaning of the Constitution, and may be niade the foundation of a requisition.* Hence the facility of escape if this
instrumentality could be used to effect that object. The
rule we have announced guards against such results.
The supposed analogy between a surrender under a treaty
providing for extradition and the surrender here in question,
has been earnestly pressed upon our attention., There, the
act is done by the authorities of the nation-in behalf of the
nation-pursuant to a National obligation. That obligation
rests alike upon the people of all the States. A National
exigency might require prompt affirmative action. In making the order of surrender, all the States, through their constituted agent, the General Government, are represented and
concur, and it may well be said to be the act of each and
all of them. Not so here.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Errors of Connecticut is
AFFIRMED.

Mr. Justice DAVIS and Mr. Justice HUNT did not sit.
Mr. Justice FIELD (with whom concurred Mr. Justice
CLIFFORD and Mr. Justice MILLER), dissenting.
I am unable to concur in the judgment rendered by the majority of the court in this case. I agree with them that sure* Kentucky v. Dennison, 24 Howard, 66; Certain Fugitives, 24 Law
Magazine, 226.

TAYLOR V. TAINTOR.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinicn of Field, Clifford, and Miller, JJ., dissenting.

ties on a recognizance can only be discharged from liability
by the performance of the condition stipulated, unless that
become impossible by the act of God, or of the law, or of
the obligee. But I differ from them in the application of
their term act of the lawv. If I understand correctly their
opinion they limit the term to a proceeding authorized by a
law enacted by the State where the recognizance was executed. I am of opinion that the term will also embrace a
proceeding authorized by any law of the United States. A
proceeding sanctioned by such law, which renders the performance of the condition of the recognizance impossible,
ought, in my judgment, upon plain principles of justice and
according to the authorities, to release the sureties.
The Constitution of the United States declares its own
supremacy, and that of the laws made in pursuance of it,
and of treaties contracted under the authority of the United
States. As the supreme law of the land they are, of course,
to be enforced and obeyed, however much they may interfere with the law or constitution of any State.
Now the Constitution provides that "a person charged in
any State with treason, felony, or other crime, who shall flee
from justice and be found in another State, shall, on demand
of the executive authority of the State from which he fled,
be delivered up to be removed to the State having jurisdiction of the crime."
The act of Congress of February 12th,
1793, was passed to carry into effect this provision, and has
made it the duty of the executive of the State or Territory
to which a person charged with one of the crimes mentioned
has fled, upon proper demand to cause the fugitive to be
arrested and delivered up. In pursuance of this act the
principal on the recognizance in suit was arrested by order
of the governor of New York, and delivered up as a fugitive from justice to the officers of the State of Maine. By
them he was taken to that State, and having been previously
indicted for a felony, was there tried, convicted, and sentenced to the penitentiary for fifteen years. Thus in the
* Article 4, section 2.

Dec. 1872..]

TAYLOR V. TAINTOR.

Opinion of Field, Clifford, and Miller, JJ., dissenting.

execution of a valid law of the United States, passed to carry
out an express constitutional provision, the prisoner was
taken against his will from the custody of his bail, and
placed in the custody of officers of another State, from whom
the bail could not recover him to make a surrender pursuant
to the condition of their recognizance. It is no answer to
say that the prisoner, when called in Connecticut, was detained by the State of Maine, and not by any proceeding or
order under an act of Congress, because that proceeding or
order had been executed, and was no longer operative. He
was taken out of the custody and placed beyond the reach
of his bail by ar proceeding under the act, and therefore to
such proceeding their inability to surrender him must be
attributed.
The case is not essentially different from a surrender of
a fugitive from justice under an extradition treaty. The
United States have such treaties with several European nations, and whatever may have been the extravagant doctrines
respecting the rights of the States, at one time in some parts
of the country, it will not now be pretended that with the
enforcement of such treaties any State, by her laws or judicial proceedings, can interfere. If the fugitive, after hisarrival in this country, should commit a crime and be held
to bail, it would be a question with the authorities of the
General Go vernment whether he should be surrendered under the treaty; but if surrendered it would be -manifestly
unjust to the bail to hold them to the performance of the
conditions of the recognizance.
It seems to me that it would be a more just rule to hold,
that whenever sureties on a recognizance are rendered unable to surrender their principal, because he has been taken
from their custody without their assent, in the regular execution of a law or treaty of the United States, their inability
thus created should constitute for their default a good and
suflicient excuse. The execution of the laws and treaties of
the United States should never be allowed in the courts of
the UniteA States to work oppression to any one.

