Dec. 1872.]

SMITH v. ADSIT.
Statement of the case.

witnesses of the respondents, but they have no actual knowledge upon the subject, as is clear from their own statement.
They infer that the canal-boat continued to float down the
river for some time after she received the injuries because
they saw, as they suppose, a light floating upon the water,
which it is quite as probable was a light on the shore or the
light in the galley of the canal-boat, as that, not having been
fastened to the deck, might not have been submerged in the
disaster to the canal-boat and her cargo.
Suffice it to say that the evidence that the canal-boat sunk
in two or three minutes from the time she received the injuries described is such as to convince the court that it
is true, and that the statements of the other witnesses, not
being founded upon actual knowledge, are not sufficient to
support the allegations of the answer.
Nothing further need be remarked in respect to the charge
that the master of the canal-boat was guilty of mismanagement, as it is clear that the charge is without any support,
and it is quite clear that the exceptions are not of a character
to enable the court to review the findings of the master.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

SMITH v. ADSIT.
1. *Where a complainant setting out a case in the highest State court, for
equitable relief against a sale, which a third party had undertaken to
make of land, alleged that the party in making the sale had violated
an act of Congress, and that the sale was therefore null and void, and
the State court dismissed the bill for want of jurisdiction; held, that
although the question whether the sale was not a nullity might have
been presented, yet that the case having been dismissed below for want
of jurisdiction, it did not appear that a Federal question had been decided, much less that it had been decided adversely to the complainant.
2. Independently of this, whatever might have been the reasons for the decision, the question whether the State court had jurisdiction of the case,
was a question exclusively for the State tribunals.
8 Held, accordingly, that no jurisdiction existed here in such a case under
the 25th section of the Judiciary Act of 1789, or the act of February
5th, 1867, amendatory of it.

ON motion to dismiss, for want of jurisdiction, a writ of

186

SMITH

v.

ADSIT.

[Sup. CL

Statement of the case.

error to the Supreme Court of the State of Illinois; the case
being thus:
An act of Congress of February 11th, 1847, providing for
raising a military force for a limited time, enacted that a
bounty in the form of one hundred and sixty acres of land,
to be located by the warrantee, should be given to soldiers
honorably discharged, but provided "that all sales, mortgages, powers, or other instruments of writing going to affect
the title or claim to any such bounty right, made or executed prior to the issue of the warrant or certificate, should
be null and void to all intents and purposes whatsoever."
With this statute in force Smith filed a bill in one of the
inferior State courts of Illinois, against Adsit, Wright,
Rourk, and the trustees of schools of township thirty, in
range six, in Grundy County, charging that in 1850, by conveyance from one Holmes, he became the owner of certain
lands in the county of Grundy, particularly described. The
bill averred that Holmes had been a soldier in the Mexican
war, that he received a certificate of service and of honorable discharge, entitling him, under the acts of Congress, to
a land warrant, and that he applied to Adsit to procure the
warrant for him; that Adsit prepared the necessary papers,
and at the same time made out a power of attorney for
Holmes, authorizing the assignment of the land warrant
about to be obtained, with blank spaces for its date, for the
number and date of the warrant, and for the name of the
attorney, and that he fraudulently induced Holmes to sign
it; that this power of attorney was filled up subsequently, and
after the land warrant was obtained, with the name of one
Hoard as the attorney, with the number and date of the
warrant issued (No. 23,129, date August 18th, 1848), and
with August 30th, 1848, as the date of the power. The bill
further charged that Adsit then procured the attorney to
assign the warrant to him, that he located it and obtained
for the land a patent inhis own name, as assignee of Holmes.
It further charged that at the date of the power Holmes was
a minor, and that the defendants, Wright, Rourk, and the
school trustees, hold the land under conveyances from Adsit,

Dec. 1872.]

SmiTH v. ADSIT.
Argument in favor of the dismissal.

with notice of the plaintiff's rights. It further charged that
the power of attorney was a nullity because obtained by
fraud, and because of the minority of Holmes; and it
averred that if any sale was made by him to Adsit of the
land warrant, it was in fact made before the warrant was
issued, that it was therefore null by force of the act of Congress, and that consequently- Adsit held and located the
warrant as a trustee for Holmes, and that the purchasers
from him were chargeable with the same trust.
The prayer of the bill was that Adsit might be decreed to
have acquired the lands in trust for Holmes; that the other
defendants might be decreed to have purchased them, and
to hold them charged with the same trust; that an account
should be directed, and also a conveyance, to the plaintiff
as assignee of Holmes. There was also a prayer for general
relief.
The answer of Adsit denied the fraud charged, and averred
that he purchased the land warrant from Holmes, without
any agreement to act as his agent; and the other defendants
set up that they were bond fide purchasers from Adsit, without notice of any equity in Holmes.
The court in which the bill had been filed entered a de.
cree against Adsit for $6829, and dismissed the bill as to
the other defendants. Adsit then appealed to the Supreme
Court of the State, where the decree against him was reversed, and the bill dismissed as to him, for want of jurisdiction. From that decree Smith, the complainant, appealed to
this court, under an assumption that the case came within
the 25th section of the Judiciary Act of 1789, or the act of
February 5th, 1867, amendatory of it, and that a title, right
or privilege under a statute of the .United States, had been
specially set up and claimed by him and decided against by
the Supreme Court of the State.*
Mr. George -Payson,for the defendant in error, adverting to
the fact that the bill had been dismissed as to Adsit, in the
* For the exact language of the acts referred to, and in the main suffi.

ciently familiar to the profesion, see Appendix.

SMITH

v.

ADSIT.

[Slip. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Supreme Court, for want of jurisdiction, now moved the court
to dismiss the writ in this court, because it nowhere appeared in the record that the decision of the court below
was against any statute of the United States specially set up
by the complainant, 'but, on the contrary, that the record, so
far as it showed anything, showed that the decree had been
based on independent grounds.
.Mr. W. T. Burgess, contra,against the dismissal:
The injury sustained springs from the violation of an act
of Congress. This act lies at the foundation of the whole
case made. The relief must be applied for, in the first instance, in a State court having, under the laws of the State,
jurisdiction to grant it, and it has been denied by the Supreme Court of the State when it ought to have been allowed.
Now the case at. bar upon all these questions is so clearly
within the jurisdiction imposed upon this court, that it needs
only to be stated to be seen.
Mr. Justice STRONG, having stated the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.
A decree was entered in the State court where the bill
was filed, against Adsit for $6829, and the bill dismissed as
to the other defendants. He then appealed to the Supreme
Court of the State, where the decree against him was reversed, and the bill was dismissed as to him, as the record
shows, for want of jurisdiction.
In view of this we do not perceive that we have any authority to review the judgment of the State court. Plainly,
if there be any Federal question in the case it is because the
plaintiff claimed some title, right, privilege, or immunity
under the act of Congress to which reference was made in
his bill, and because the decision of the court was against
the title, right, privilege, or immunity thus set up or claimed.
Such a claim and such a decision must appear in the record.
But we think this does not appear. It must be admitted
that the question whether the sale of the land warrant by
Holmes to Adsit, if made before the warrant issued, as

Dec. 1872.]

SMITH v. ADSIT.

Opinion of the court.

charged in the bill, was not a nullity, may have been pre.
sented, but it does not appear that such a question was decided, much less that it was decided adversely to the plaintiff
in error. Nothing is more certain than that to give this
court jurisdiction to review the judgment of a State court,
the record must show, either expressly or by necessary intendment, not only that a Federal question was raised, but
that it was decided adversely to the party who has caused
the case to be removed here.
The doctrine was plainly stated in Crowell v. Bandell,* an'd
it has been repeated in numerous later decisions. Indeed
it is the express requirement of the twenty-fifth section of
the Judiciary Act, and of the act of February 14th, 1867.
And the rulings of this court have gone further. In -Parmelee v. Lawrence,t it was said it must appear that the question must have been necessarily involved in the decision,
and that the State court could not have given a judgment
without deciding it. In Williams v. Norris,T it was held not
to be enough that the construction of an act of Congress was
drawn in question, and that the decision was against the
title of the party, but that it must also appear that the title
depended on that act. And in Rector v. Ashley,ยง it was laid
down that if the judgment of the State court can be sustained on other grounds than those which are of Federal
cognizance, this court will not revise it, though a Federal
question may also have been decided therein, and decided
erroneously. These decisions go much further than is necessary to sustain our judgment now.
As we have seen, the bill was dismissed for want of jurisdiction. The judgment of the court respecting the extent
of its equitable jurisdiction is, of course, not reviewable
here. The record does not inform us what other questions,
if any, were decided. It nowhere appears that the sale from
Holmes to Adsit was ruled to be valid, notwithstanding the
act of Congress which declared that sales of bounty-rights,
made or executed prior to the issue of land warrants there* 10 Peters, 368.

12 Wheaton, 117.

t 11 Wallace, 86.
6 Wallace, 142.

BANK V. TURNBULL & Co.

[-sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

for, shall be null and void. Nor was it necessary to the decree that was entered that such a decision should have been
made. After the land had been sold by Adsit to bond fide
purchasers without notice, which had been decreed in the
court below, from which decree there was no appeal-after
it had thus been settled that there was no continuing trust
in the land-it may well have been determined that the
plaintiff's remedy against Adsit was at law, and not in
equity, even if the sale from Holmes to him was utterly void.
But whatever may have been the reasons for the decision,
whether the court had jurisdiction of the case or not, is a
question exclusively for the judgment of the State court.
We need not pursue the subject further. It is enough
that it does not appear the claim of the plaintiff, that the sale
of Holmes to Adsit was a nullity because of the act of Congress, was necessarily involved in the decision, or that the
sale was decided to be valid, or that the same decree would
not have been made if the invalidity of the sale had been
acknowledged.
WRIT DISMISSED.

BANK V. TURNBULL & CO.
Where a proceeding in a State court is merely incidental and auxiliary to
an original action there-a graft upon it, and not an independent and
separate litigation-it cannot be removed into the Federal courts under
the act of 2d of March, 1867, authorizing under certain conditions the
transfer of "suits" originating in the State courts.
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of Virginia;
the case being thus:
By the statute law of the State just named, it is enacted,
that when an execution has been levied, and a party other
than the defendant asserts a claim to the property levied on,
the sheriff, before proceeding to sell, may require of the
plaintiff an indemnifying bond, upon the delivery of which
the claimant of the property may execute "a suspending

