DECISIONS
IN

TEl

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
DECEMBER TERM, 1872.

DAIR V. UNITED STATES.
A bond, perfect upon its face, apparently duly executed by all whose namit
appear thereto, purporting to be signed and delivered, and actually de.
livered without a stipulation, cannot be avoided by the sureties upon
the ground that they signed it on a condition that it should not be delivered unless it was executed by other persons who did not execute itwhere it appears that the obligee had no notice of such condition, ani
there was nothing to put him upon inquiry as to the manner of its execution, and that he had been induced upon the faith of such bond to act
to his own prejudice.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of Indiana.
The United States brought an action of debt on a distiller's
bond, executed by Jonathan Dair and William Sauks as;
principals, and by James Dair and William Davison as sureties. There was no dispute as to the right to recover against
the principals, but the sureties, who pleaded separately, denied their liability upon the bond, and upon the issue thus;
raised by them, there was the following special finding by
the court:
"That the said James Dair and William Davison signed the
said writing obligatory upon the day of its date, as sureties, at.
the instance of Jonathan Dar, one of the principals, but that it
was signed by them upon the condition that said writing obligatory was not to be delivered to the plaintiff until it should ber
executed by one Joseph Cloud as co-surety, that the said writing obligatory, upon its signing by them upon the condition
IIVOL. XVL
1
(I )

DAIR V.

UNITED STATE[

[Sup. Ot.

Argument for the sureties.

aforesaid, was placed in the hands of the said principal, Jonathan Ijair, who afterwards, without the performance of that
condition, and without the consent of the said James Dair and
William Davison, delivered the same to the plaintiff. And, that
when the bond was so delivered, it was in all respects regular
upon its face, and that the plaintiff had no notice of the condition."
As a conclusion of law upon these facts, judgment was
rendered in favor of the United States, against all the parties to the bond, for the amount which it was conceded the
principals owed the government. This writ of error was
prosecuted by them to reverse that decision.
Messrs. J. . McDonald and . M. Butler,for the plaintiffs
in error:
This court, in Pawling et al. v. The United States,* held that
parol evidence might be introduced to establish the fact that
a bond which on its face purported to have been delivered,
absolutely, had been delivered in violation of the conditions
upon which it had been signed, by some of the parties, and
that if such defence should be made out, it was sufficient to
defeat the suit on this bond as to those who had signed it
thus conditionally.
The same doctrine is laid down in a leading case in New
York, People v. Bostwick el al.,t where most of the leading
cases on both sides of the question are cited, and the questions are treated upon the legal principles involved, as well
as in the light of adjudicated cases, and such conclusions
are reached as make it impossible to disregard them without
a departure from well-established propositions of law relating to the execution of instruments like the one under consideration.
But Pawling et al. v. The United States binds this court as
an authority.
It is an axiom of the law that a bond speaks from the
time of its delivery, and it makes no difference how perfect
it may le in form, it is, unless it has actually been delivered,
* 4 Cranch, 219.

t- 32 New York, 445.

Dec. 1872.]

DAIR V. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the court.

no bond. To constitute a delivery it must pass out of the
hands of the obligors with their consent,-and must be received by the obligee or his agent in that behalf, for the
purpose for which it was intended.
Mr. G. Hf. Williams, Attorney-General, and Mr. C. H. Hill,
Assistant Attorney- General, contra, relied on State v. Peck,* a
case, they said, directly in point for the government; the
principle involved being, after all, they argued, only that
plainly just one, long ago declared by Lord Holt,t when he
said in a case somewhat similar in principle:
"Seeing somebody must be a loser by this deceit, it is more
reason that he that employs and puts a trust and confidence in
the deceiver should be a loser than a stranger."
Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
It is important that the question involved in this case
should be settled, on account of the various interests connected with the administration of governmental affairs, requiring official bonds to be taken, which, as a general thing,
are rarely executed in the presence of both parties. It is
easy to see, if the obligors are at liberty, when litigation
arises and loss is likely to fall upon them, to set up a condition, unknown to the person whose duty it was to take the
bond, and which is unjust in its result, that the difficulties
of procuring satisfactory indemnity from those who are required by law to give it, will be greatly increased. Espe-cially is that so, since parties to the action, are permitted to
testify.
In Green v. The United States,t the cause of action and defence were the same as in this suit, but as the judgment was
reversed on another ground, and the merits of the defence
were not discussed, they were not decided. As the case
* 53 Maine, 284.

t Hem v. Nichols, 1 Salkeld, 289; and see in rze.eot times. Pickard w,
Sears, 6 Adolphus & Ellis, 469, per Denman, 0. T.
: 9 Wallace, 658.

DAIR V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Or.

Opinion of the court.

was sent back for a new trial, the court thought proper to
call the attention of the court below and of counsel to the
subject, and took occasion to say that it had grave doubts
whether the facts set up were a valid defence to the action.
Subsequent reflection has confirmed the views then entertained, and we are now prepared to say that the position of
the defendants cannot be maintained. The ancient rules of
the common law in relation to estoppels in pais have been
relaxed, and the tendency of modern decisions is to take a
broader view of the purpose to be accomplished by them,
and they are now applied so as to reach the case of a party,
whose conduct is purposely fraudulent or will effect an unjust result.
It must be conceded that courts of justice, if in their
power to do so, should not allow a party who, by act or admission, has induced another with whom he was contracting.
to pursue a line of conduct injurious to his interests, to
deny the act or retract the admission in case of apprehended
loss. Sound policy requires that the person who proceeds
on the faith of an act or admission of this character should
be protected by estopping the party who has brought about
this state of things from alleging anything in opposition to
the natural consequences of his own course of action. It
is, accordingly, established doctrine that whenever an act is
done or statement made by a party, which cannot be contradicted without fraud on his part and injury to others,
whose conduct has been influenced by the act or admission,
the character of an estoppel will attach to what otherwise
would be mere matter of evidence.*
Why should not this principle of estoppel, on every reason
of justice and good faith, be applied to the covenant on
which this action is founded. The bond was in all respects
regular, executed according to prescribed forms, and accepted by the officer whose duty it was to take it, as a completed contract. There was nothing on the face of the paper
or in the transaction itself to put the officer on inquiry, or
* 2 Smith's Leading Cases, 7th edition, note to the Duchess of Kingston's
Case, 424.

Dec. 1872.1

DAIR v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the court.

to raise even a suspicon in his mind that a condition was
annexed to the delivery of the instrument The transaction
was one of ordinary occurrence in the administration of the
revenue laws, and if the officer was satisfied of the sufficiency of the indemnity, there being no circumstances to
create distrust that the principal obligors who tendered the
bond were not upright men, there was nothing left for him
to do but to take it and issue the license. This was done,
and the government will be greatly prejudiced if the sureties
who were relied on to perform the conditions in case of the
failure of the principals, can defeat a recovery on the ground
that they did not intend to be bound unless another shared
the responsibility, and so told the principal obligors who
solicited their signatures. But they did not inform the
revenue oflicer of this condition, and their omission to do
so then estops them from setting it up now. The silence
which they imposed upon themselves at the time makes
their present conduct culpable, for it is not to be doubted
that the officer in charge of this business would have acted
differently if the information which the principals received
had been communicated to him. In the execution of the
bond the sureties declared to all persons interested to know
that they were parties to the covenant and bound by it, and
in the belief that this was so they were accepted and the
license granted. They cannot, therefore, contravene the
statement thus made and relied on without a fraud on their
part and injury to another, and where these things concur
the estoppel is imposed by law. As they confided in Dair
it is more consonant with reason that they should suffer for
his misconduct than the government, who was not placed
in a position of trust with regard to him.
The case of -Pauldinget al. v. The United Slates, has been
cited as an authority against the position taken in this
case; but it is not so, because the additional securities to be
procured in that case were named on the face of the bond,!
and this fact is stated in the plea. If the name of Joseph
Cloud appeared as a co-surety on the face of this bond, the
estoppel would not apply, for the reason that the incomplete-

LYNDE v. THE COUNTY.

[Sup. Cu_

Syllabus.

ness of the instrument would have been brought to the
notice of the agent of the government, who would have
been put on inquiry to ascertain why Cloud did not execute
it, and the pursuit of this inquiry would have disclosed to
him the exact condition of things.
In any case, if the bond is so written that it appears that
several were expected to sign it, the obligee takes it with
notice that the obligors who do sign it can set up in defence
the want of execution by the others, if they agreed to become bound, only on condition that the other co-sureties
joined in the execution.
We are aware that there is a conflict of opinion in the
courts of this country upon the point decided in this case,
but we think we are sustained by the weight of authority.
At any rate, it is clear on principle that the doctrine of
estoppel in pais should be applied to this defence.
It would serve no useful purpose to review the authorities.
This work has been performed in several well-considered
cases in Maine, Indiana, and Kentucky, and although these
courts do not rest their decisions on the same ground, yet
they all agree that the facts pleaded in this suit do not constitute a bar to the action.*
JUDGMIENT AFFIRMED.

LYNDE

v.

THE COUNTY.

1. The submission to the voters of a county, under the Code of Iowa, of
the question "whether the county judge at the time of levying the annual
taxes shall levy a special tax of a specified number of mills on a dollar of valuation, for the purpose of constructing a court-house in the county ; the tax to
be levied from year to year until a sufficient amount is raised for said purpose,

not to exceed," &c., is (by implication) a submission of the question
whether money shall be borrowed to build the court-house, and nego-

tiable bonds be sold as the means of borrowing; this, though the same
section of the code enacts that the county judge may submit to the
voters the question "whether money may be borrowed to aid in the
* State v. Peck, 53 Maine, 284; State v. Pepper, 31 Indiana, 76; Millett
v. Parker,2 Metcalfe (Ky.), 608.

