Dec. 1872.]

WALBRUN V. BABBITT.

Syllabus.

matter contracted to be done, and arises indirectly in the
course of the performance of the work, the employer is not
liable, because he never authorized the work to be done.*
It would be monstrous, said Lord Campbell, if a party causing another to do a thing were exempted from liability for
the act merely because there was a contract between him,
and the person immediately causing the act to be done,
which may be accepted as correct if applied in a case wherethe work contracted to be done will necessarily, in its prog-ress, render the street unsafe and inconvenient for public'
travel.t More than one party may be liable in such a case,.
nor can one who employs another to make such an excavation relieve himself from liability for such damages as thosir.
involved in the case before the court by any stipulation wit!
his employe, as both the person who procured the nuisance
to be made and the immediate author of it are liable.1
Apply these rules to the case before the court, and it is
clear that they are sufficient to dispose of all the exceptions
and to show that there is no error in the record.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

WALBRUN

v.

BABBITT.

1. When on the undisputed parts of a case a verdict is clearly right, so that.
if a new venire were awarded the same verdict would have to be given,.
a court will not reverse because on some disputed points a charge may'
have been technically inaccurate.
2. A sale by a retail country merchant then insolvent of his entire stockt
suddenly, is a sale "1not made in the usual and ordinary course ' of his,
business; and, therefore, primafacieevidence of fraud, within the 35th
section of the bankrupt law.
* Hole v. Railway Co., 6 Hurlstone & Norman, 497.

- Ellis v. Gas Cons. Co., 2 Ellis & Blackburne, 770; Newton v. Ellis, ,
Id. 124; Lowell v. Railroad, 23 Pickering, 31.
$ Storrs v. Utica, 17 New York, 108; Creed v Hartmann, 29 Id. 591; Same,
Case, 8 Bosworth, 123; Congreve v. Smith, 18 New York, 79; Same v. Morgan, 18 Id. 84; Shearman & Redfield on Negligence, 423; Mayor v. Furze,
8 Hill, 616; Milford v. Holbrook, 9 Allen, 21.
VOL. XVI.

87

578

WALBRUN V. BABBITT.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
8 The presumption of fraud arising from the unusual nature of such a sale
can be overcome only by proof on the part of the buyer that he pursued

in good faith all reasonable means to find out the pecuniary condition
of the vendor.
4. One purchasing in such a case from a vendee who he knows has used no
such means, but on the contrary has bought under other suspicious circumstances, takes with full knowledge of the infirmity of the title. And
as against either or both purchasers the assignee in bankruptcy may set
the sale aside if made within six months before a decree in bankruptcy,
even though a fair money consideration have been paid by each.

to the Circuit Court for the District of Missouri.
Babbitt, assignee in bankruptcy of Marks Mendelson,
brought trover against Walbrun & Co. in the court below,
to recover the value of a stock of merchandise sold by the
bankrupt to one Summerfield, and by the latter to the said
-defendants. The ground of the action was that the several
transfers were frauds on the bankrupt law under the 35th
section thereof-a section in these words :*
ERROR

"'If any person, being insolvent or in contemplation of in,solvency or bankruptcy, within six months before the filing of
the petition by or against him, makes any payment, sale, assignment, transfer, conveyance, or other disposition of any part of
his property to any person who then has reasonable cause to
believe him to be insolvent, or to be acting in contemplation
of insolvency, and that such payment, sale, assignment, transfer, or other conveyance, is made with a view to prevent his
property from coming to his assignee in bankruptcy, or to prevent the same from being distributed under this act, or to defeat
the object of, or in any way impair, hinder, impede, or delay the
operation and effect of,or to evade any of the provisions of this
act, the sale, assignment, transfer, or conveyance shall be void,
and the assignee may recover the property or the value thereof
as assets of the bankrupt; and if such sale, assignment, transfer,
or conveyance is not made in the usual and ordinary course of
business of the debtor, the fact shall be prima facie evidence of
fraud."
The facts of the case which were undisputed, were thus:
In November, 1868, Mendelson, doing business in Kings* 14 Stat. at Large, 534.

Dec. 1872.]

WALBRUN

v.

BABBITT.

Statement of the case.

ville, a small town in the interior of Missouri, as a retail
country merchant, wrote to one Summerfield, who was his
brother-in-law, living in St. Louis and engaged there in the
furniture business, to bring some money and come and buy
him out. Summerfield at once went to Kingsville, and
took, in currency, money enough for the purpose. On his
arrival there Mendelson told him he was desirous of selling
his stock, because he could not succeed in the business in
which he was engaged, and wished to deal in furniture and
hardware. An account of stock was taken, and Summerfield paid Mendelson for it after deducting 25 per cent. off
the cost price. Soon after this purchase Summerfield, leaving Mendelson in possession of the store, went to Chillicothe, Missouri, and told Walbrun & Co., a firm there with
which he had some acquaintance, of his purchase of the
stock of goods at 25 per cent, below cost, because the owner
wanted to go into the furniture business, and that, as he
,only desired to make 5 per cent., he would resell to them at
20 per cent. below cost. They agreed to take the goods at
his offer, as they needed some of the articles to replenish
their stock, if they came up to the account that was given
,of them. Accordingly, one Ritter, a member of the firm,
went back to Kingsville with Summerfield. They found
Mendelson still in charge of the store. Some of the goods
were boxed up and some on the shelves. In making his
purchase, Ritter made no inquiry of the pecuniary condition
,of either Mendelson or Summerfield. Both parties lodged
at Mendelson's house. The morning after arriving they
commenced examining the goods at the store, And found
some of them in bad condition, of which Ritter complained.
After measuring several pieces, to see if the stock conformed
to the inventory, Summerfield excused himself fi-om further
service on the ground that he had to return to St. Louis, as
he had just learned of the sickness of his wife, and told
Ritter to take the goods home with him, and if the inventory
was defective he would make it right. Ritter replied that
he thought that if they would work hard -they could soon
get through, but finally yielded to Summerfield's persua-

WALBRUN

V. BABBITT.

[Sup. Cit

Opinion of the court.

sions, and, with the assistance of Mendelson, boxed the
goods up and shipped them to Chillicothe. Ritter paid the
full inventory price at the agreed rate, and both parties left
Kingsville that night for their respective homes. Mendelson's debts at the time of this sale were about $9000. This
stock of goods was all the property worth naming that he
had. The price given by Summerfield for it was $5373.
On the 24th of December, 1868, on petition of his creditors, Mendelson was adjudicated a bankrupt. The money
received by him from Summerfield for the goods did not
reach his creditors, as, according to his own statement, he
lost it.
There were other facts and circumstances connected with
the transactions which invited inquiry, but, as they were
represented differently in the sworn testimony of the different witnesses, they are not given as any part of the case.
All the witnesses agreed in the case as stated above, and as
this court considered, there was no necessity, for the purposes of this suit, of going beyond it.
The court below gave several instructions bearing, some
of them, on these disputed parts of the case. These instructions were assigned for error, though in several points not
unfavorable to the defendant. But on the whole case, embracing the undisputed parts of the suit (the case as above
given), the court directed the jury to find for the plaintiff.
Verdict and judgment went accordingly. The defendants
now brought the case here.
Mr. T. J. -Durant,for the plaintiff in error; Mr. Nathaniel
Myers, contra.
Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
In the view we take of this case it is not necessary ta
notice the assignments of error upon the instructions to the
jury by the court below. In some respects they may be
technically inaccurate, and in others they were far too favorable to the defendants. But, in any event, they did not materially affect the merits of the action, and, as there were na

Dec. 1872.]

WALBRUN

v.

BABBITT.

Opinion of the court.

-.isputed facts bearing on the real matter in controversy, the
court could have properly told the jury to find, as they did,
for the plaintiffi.* Indeed, the verdict was so obviously
right that the court would not set aside the judgment when
the record shows that no other result could be obtained on
a new trial.
That Mendelson intended to defraud his creditors in the
,course which he pursued is too plain for controversy; but
the inquiry is, has he succeeded in diverting his property
from the payment of his debts to the injury of his creditors?
The 85th section of the bankrupt law condemns fraudulent sales equally with fraudulent preferences, and declares
that if such sales are not made in the usual and ordinary
,course of the business of the debtor that fact shall be primd
facie evidence of fraud. The usual and ordinary course of
Mendelson's business was to sell at retail a miscellaneous
,stock of goods common to country stores in a small town in
the interior of the State of Missouri. It was to conduct a
business of. this character that the goods were sold to him,
und, as long as he pursued the course of a retailer, his creditors could not reach the property disposed of by him, even
if his purpose at the time were to defraud them.
But it is wholly a different thing when he sells his entire
stock to one or more persons. This is an unusual occurience, out of the ordinary mode of transacting such a busi.iess, is priml facie evidence of fraud, and throws the burden
of proof on the purchaser to sustain the validity of his pur-chase.t
Summerfield seeks to overthrow the legal presumption
that Mendelson intended to commit a fraud on his creditors
by showing that he paid full value for the goods in ignorance*
of the condition of Mendelson's affairs. But the law will
not let him escape in this way. The question raised by the
* Bevans v. The United States, 13 Wallace, 56.

t Scammon, Assignee, v. Cole, 5 National Bankruptcy Register, 257;
Graham v. Stark et al., 3 Id. 95; Kingsbury et al. v. Hale, Ib. 84; Driggs
V. M!oore, lb. 149; Tattle v. Truax; 1 Id. 169.

WALBRUN

v.

BABBITT.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

statute is not his actual belief, but what he had reasonable
cause to believe. In purchasing in the way and under the
circumstances he did, the law told him that a fraud of some
kind was intended on the part of the seller, and he was put
on inquiry to ascertain the true condition of Mendelson's
business. This he did not do, nor did he make any attempt
in that direction. Indeed, he contented himself with limiting his inquiries to the object Mendelson had in selling out,
and to his future purposes. Something more was required
than this information to repel the presumption of fraud
which the law raised in the mere fact of a retail merchant
selling out his entire stock of goods. If this sort of information could sustain the sale, the provision of the bankrupt law
we are considering would be no protection to creditors, for
any one in Mendelson's situation, and with the purpose he
had in view, would be likely to give the party with whom
he was dealing a plausible reason for his conduct.
The presumption of fraud arising from the unusual nature
of the sale in this case can only be overcome by proof on
the part of the buyer that he took the proper steps to find
out the pecuniary condition of the seller. All reasonable
means, pursued in good faith, must be used for this purpose.
If Summerfield had employed any means at all directed to
this end he would have discovered the actual insolvency of
Mendelson.
In choosing to remain ignorant of what the necessities of
his case required him to know, he took the risk of the impeachment of the transaction by the assignee in bankruptcy,
in case Mendelson should, within the time limited in the
statute, be declared a bankrupt.
The defendants are in no better condition than Summerfield would be if he had not transferred the stock to them,
because they took his title with full knowledge of its infirmity, and must blame their own folly for the result. Ritter,
the active agent of the firm ili the transaction, was fully informed by Surnmerfield of the circumstances attending his
purchase, and this information was confirmed on his arrival
at Kingsville. He there found Mendelson in charge of the

Dec. 1872.]

WALBRUN

v.

BABBITT.

Opinion of the court.

store, with some of the goods boxed up and some on the
shelves, sure indications that the sale was recent and that
there had been no actual. change of possessiou. These
things, in connection with the residence of Summerfield in
St. Louis, and his occupation there, ought to have excited
the fears of a reasonable man that the sale by Mendelson
was not for an honest purpose, and prompted him to make inquiry upon the subject. Ritter, instead of doing this, treated
the transaction as one of ordinary occurrence and as not imposing on him the duty of ascertaining the pecuniary status
of either the vendor or vendee. Without learning anything,
or seeking to learn anything, beyond the facts that the goods
suited him and Mendelson wanted to change his business,
he completed the purchase and immediately transferred the
stock to the store of the defendants in Chillicothe. If this
sale can be upheld, the law which declared the title of Summerfield primdfacie fraudulent could be easily rendered of
no benefit, for all that would be necessary for a person buying property out of the ordinary course of business of the
seller, to place it out of the reach of creditors, would be, as
soon as he had consummated his purchase, to sell to another,
who would acquire a good title, no matter how presump-:
tively invalid the title of his vendor might be. It needs no
argument to prove that if the law against fraudulent sales
could be evaded in this way, it would furnish no sort of protection to creditors. Ritter, when he purchased, knew the
nature of Summerfield's title, because he knew, or ought to
have known, that a retail dealer like Mendelson, in selling
out his entire stock, was presumptively guilty of intending
to defraud his creditors, if it should turn out that he had
any. Of this the bankrupt law gave him distinct notice,
and as he chose, like Summerfield, to remain ignorant of
Mendelson's affairs, he took the hazard of Summerfield's
inability to prove the fairness of his title. It follows that if
the sale to Summerfield cannot be supported, neither can
the sale by him to the defendants.
It is unne.essary to notice the exceptions taken to the admission or rijection of testimony, because our decision is

Z84

WAGER

v

HALL.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

based on the evidence which was received without objection,
and about which there is no controversy.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.
[See the next following case, and also Smith v. Buchanan, supra, p. 277.]

WAGER ET AL. V. HALL.
1. The transfer by a debtor who is insolvent, of his property, or a considerable portion of it, to one creditor as a security for a pre-existing debt,
without making any provision for an equal distribution of its proceeds
to all his creditors, operates as a preference to such transferee, and must
be taken as primd facie evidence that a preference was intended, unless
the debtor or transferee can show that the debtor was at the time ignorant of his insolvency, and that his affairs were such that he could reasonably expect to pay all his debts.
2. Such a transfer, if made within four months before the filing by the party
of a petition in bankruptcy, is in fraud of the Bankrupt Act, and void.

from the Circuit Court for the Western District
of Wisconsin.
Hall, assignee of Lakin, a trader in Brodhead, Green
County, Wisconsin, filed a bill in the court below against
Wager & Fales, merchants, of Troy, New York, to set aside
a mortgage on lands in the said Brodhead, given by the said
bankrupt to them for $3000, to secure five payments, of $600
each, payable in six, twelve, sixteen, twenty, and twenty-four
months, which mortgage and notes were executed December
15th, 1869, being twenty-four days prior to his filing his petition in bankruptcy, on the ground that it was given in violation of the Bankrupt Act. That act, in its 35th section,
thus enacts :*
APPEAL

"If any person, being insolvent, or in contemplation of insolvency, within four months before the filing of the petition by
or against him, with a view to give a preference to any creditor or
* 14 Stat. at Large, 534.

