BRADWELL

v.

THE STATE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

I earnestly hope that the consequences to follow may
prove less serious and far-reaching than the minority fear
they will be.

BRADWELL

v.

THE STATE.

1. The Supreme Court of Illinois having refused to grant to a woman a
license to practice law in the courts of that State, on the ground that
females are not eligible under the laws of that State; Held, that such a
decision violates no provision of the Federal Constitution.
2. The second section of the fourth article is inapplicable, because the plaintiff was a citizen of the State of whose action she complains, and that
section only guarantees privileges and immunities to citizens of other
States, in that State.
8. Nor is the right to practice law in the State courts a privilege or immunity of a citizen of the United States, within the meaning of the first
section of the fourteenth article of amendment of the Constitution of
the United States.
4. The power of a State to prescribe the qualifications for admission to the
bar of its own courts is unaffected by the fourteenth amendment, and
this court cannot inquire into the reasonableness or propriety of the
rules it may prescribe.

IN error to the Supreme Court of the State of Illinois.
Mrs. Myra Bradwell, residing in the State of Illinois, made
application to the judges of the Supreme Court of that State
for a license to practice law. She accompanied her petition
with the usual certificate from an inferior court of her good
character, and that on due examination she had been found
to possess the requisite qualifications. Pending this application she also filed an affidavit, to the effect "that she was
born in the State of Vermont; that she was (had been) a
citizen of that State; that she is now a citizen of the United
States, and has been for many years past a resident of the
city of Chicago, in the State of Illinois." And with this
affidavit she also filed a paper asserting that, under the foregoing facts, she was entitled to the license prayed for by
virtue of the second section of the fourth article of the Constitution of the United States, and of the fourteenth article
of amend ment of that instrument.

Dec. 1872.]

BRADWELL

v. THE

STATE.

Statement of the case.

The statute of Illinois on the subject of admissions to the
bar, enacts that no person shall be permitted to practice as
an attorney or counsellor-at-law, or to commence, conduct,
or defend any action, suit, or plaint, in which he is not a
party concerned, in any court of record within the, State,
either by using or subscribing his own name or the name
of any other person, without having previously obtained a
license for that purpose from some two of the justices of the
Supreme Court, which license shall constitute the person
receiving the same an attorney and counsellor-at-law, and
shall authorize him to appear in all the courts of record
within the State, and there to practice as an attorney and
-counsellor-at-law, according to the laws and customs thereof.
On Mrs. Bradwell's application first coming before the
court, the license was refused, and it was stated as a sufi-cient reason that under the decisions of the Supreme Court
-of Illinois, the applicant-" as a married woman would be
bound neither by her express contracts nor by those implied
-contracts which it is the policy of the law to create between
attorney and client." After the announcement of this decision, Mrs. Bradwell, admitting that she was a married
woman-though she expressed her belief that such fact did
not appear in the record-filed a printed argument in which
her right to admission, notwithstanding that fact, was earnestly and ably maintained. The court thereupon gave an
-opinion in writing. Extracts are here given:
"Our statute provides that no person shall be permitted to
practice as an attorney or counsellor at law without having
previously obtained a license for that purpose from two of the
justices of the Supreme Court. By the second section of the
act, it is provided that no person shall be entitled to receive a
license until he shall have obtained a certificate from the court
of some county of his good moral character, and this is the only
express limitation upon the exercise of the power thus intrusted
to this court. In all other respects it is left to our discretion to
establish the rules by which admission to this office shall be determined. But this discretion is not an arbitrary one, and must
be held subject to at least two limitations. One is, that the

132

BRADWELL V. THE STATE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

court should establish such terms of admission as will promote
the proper administration of justice; the second, that it should
not admit any persons or class of persons who are not intended
by the legislature to be admitted, even though their exclusion
is not expressly required by the statute.
"The substance of the last limitation is simply that this important trust reposed in us should be exercised in conformity
with the designs of the power creating it.
"Whether, in the existing social relations between men and
women, it would promote the proper administration of justice,
and the general well-being of society, to permit women to engage in the trial of cases at the bar, is a question opening a.
wide field of discussion, upon which it is not necessary for us
to enter. It is sufficient to say that, in our opinion, the other
implied limitation upon our power, to which we have above
referred, must operate to prevent our admitting women to the
office of attorney at law. If we were to admit them, we should
be exercising the authority conferred upon us in a manner
which, we are fully satisfied, was never contemplated by the
legislature.
"It is to be remembered that at the time this statute was
enacted we had, by express provision, adopted the common law
of England, and, with three exceptions, the statutes of that
country passed prior to the fourth year of James the First, sa
far as they were applicable to our condition.
"It is to be also remembered that female attorneys at law
were unknown in England, and a proposition that a woman
should enter the courts of Westminster Hall in that capacity,
or as a barrister, would have created hardly less astonishment
than one that she should ascend the bench of bishops, or be
elected to a seat in the House of Commons.
"It is to be further remembered, that when our act was passed,
that school of reform which claims for women participation in
the making and administering of the laws had not then arisen,
or, if here and there a writer had advanced such theories, they
were regarded rather as abstract speculations than as an actual
basis for action.
"That God designed the sexes to occupy different spheres of
action, and that it belonged to men to make, apply, and execute
the laws, was regarded as an almost axiomatic truth.
"In view of these facts, we are certainly warranted in saying

'Dec.1872.]

BRADWELL

v. THE STATE.

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

that when the legislature gave to this court the power of grant
ing licenses to practice law, it was with not the slightest expectation that this privilege would be extended to women."
The court having thus denied the application, Mrs. Bradwell brought the case here as within the twenty-fifth section
of the Judiciary Act, or the recent act of February 5th, 1867,
amendatory thereto; the exact language of which may be
seen in the Appendix.
Mr. Matthew Hale Carpenter,for the plaintiff in error:
The question does not involve the right of a female to
vote. It presents a narrow matter:
Can a female citizen, duly qualified in respect of age,
character, and learning, claim, under the fourteenth amendment,* the privilege of earning a livelihood by practicing
at the bar of a judicial court ?
The original Constitution said:
"The citizens of each State shall be entitled to all privileges
and immunities of citizens in the several States."
Under this provision each State could determine for itself
what the privileges and immunities of its citizens should be,
i. citizen emigrating from one State to another carried with
him, not the privileges and immunities he enjoyed in his
itative State, but was entitled, in the State of his adoption,
I o such privileges and immunities as were enjoyed by the
.lass of citizens to which he belonged by the laws of such
adopted State.
But the fourteenth amendment executes itself in every
State of the Union. Whatever are the privileges and immunities of a citizen in the State of New York, such citizen,
emigrating, carries them with him into any other State of
the Union. It utters the will of the United States in every
State, and silences every State constitution, usage, or law
which conflicts with it. If to be admitted to the bar, on attaining the age and learning required by law, be one of the
* See the Amendment, supra, pp. 43, 44.

BRADWELL V. THE STATE.

[Sup. Ot.

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

privileges of a white citizen in the State of New York, it is
equally the privilege of a colored citizen in that State; and
if in that State, then in any State. If no State may "make
or enforce any law" to abridge the privileges of a citizen, it
must follow that the privileges of all citizens are the same.
Does admission to the bar belong to that class of privileges which a State may not abridge, or that class of political rights as to which a State may discriminate between its
citizens ?
It is evident that there are certain "privileges and immunities" which belong to a citizen of the United States as
such; otherwise it would be nonsense for the fourteenth
amendment to prohibit a State from abridging them. I concede that the right to vote is not one of those privileges.
And the question recurs whether admission to the bar, the
proper qualification being possessed, is one of the privileges
which a State may not deny.
In Cummings v. Missouri,* this court say:
"The theory upon which our political institutions rest is,
that all men have certain inalienable rights-that among these
are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness; and that in the
pursuit of happiness all avocations, all honors, all positions, are
alike open to every one, and that in the protection of these rights all
are equal before the law.

Any deprivation or suspension of any

of these rights for past conduct is punishment, and can be in no
otherwise defined."
In Ex parte Garland,t this court say:
"The profession of an attorney and counsellor is not like an
office created by an act of Congress, which depends for its continuance, its powers, and its emoluments upon the will of its
creator, and the possession of which may be burdened with any
conditions not prohibited by the Constitution. Attorneys and
counsellors are not officers of the United States; they are not
elected or appointed in the manner prescribed by the Constitution for the election and appointment of such officers. They
are officers of the court, admitted as such by its order, upon
4 Wallace, 321.

t lb. 378.

Dec. 1872.]

BRADWELL

v. THE

STATE.

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

evidence of their possessing sufficient legal learning znd fair private
character. . . .The order of admission is the judgment of the
court, that the parties possess the requisite qualifications as
attorneys and counsellors, and are entitled to appear as such
and conduct causes therein. From its entry the parties become
officers of the court, and are responsible to it for professional
misconduct. They hold their office during good behavior, and
can only be deprived of it for misconduct, ascertained and declared
by the judgment of the court, after opportunity to be heard has been
offered."*
It is now settled by numerous cases,t that the courts in
admitting attorneys to, and in expelling them from, the bar,
act judicially, and that such proceedings are subject to review on writ of error or appeal, as the case may be.
From these cases the conclusion is irresistible, that the
profession of the law, like the clerical profession and that
of medicine, is an avocation open to every citizen of the
United States. And while the legislature may prescribe
qualifications for entering upon this pursuit, they cannot,
under the guise of fixing qualifications, exclude a class of
citizens from admission to the bar. The legislature may
say at what age candidates shall be admitted; may elevate
or depress the standard of learning'required. But a qualification, to which a whole class of citizens never can attain,
is not a regulation of admission to the bar, but is, as to such
citizens, a prohibition. For instance, a State legislature
could not, in enumerating the qualifications, require the
candidate to be a white citizen. This would be the exclusion of all colored citizens, without regard to age, character,
or learning. Yet no sound mind can draw a distinction between such an act and a custom, usage, or law of a State,
which denies this privilege to all female citizens, without
regard to age, character, or learning. If the legislature
may, under pretence of fixing qualifications, declare that no
Ex parte Heyfron, 7 Howard's Mississippi, 127; Fletcher v. Daingerfield, 20 California, 430.
- Ex parte Cooper, 22 New York, 67; Strother v. Mi-so iri,
1 Missouri
605; Ex parte Seconi6, 19 Howard, 9; Ex parte Gar'and, 4 Wallace, 378.

BRADWELL V. THE STATE.

ESup. Ct.

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

female citizen shall be permitted to practice law, it may as
well declare that no colored citizen shall practice law; for
the only provision in the Constitution of the United States
'which secures to colored male citizens the privilege of admission to the bar, or the pursuit of the other ordinary avocations of life, is the provision that "no State shall make
or enforce any law which shall abridge the privileges or
immunities of a citizen." And if this provision does protect the colored citizen, then it protects every citizen, black
or white, male or female.
Now, Mrs. Bradwell is a citizen of the United States, and
of the State of Illinois, residing therein; she has been judicially ascertained to be of full age, and to possess the
requisite character and learning.
Still admission to the bar was denied her, not upon the
ground that she was not a citizen; not for want of age or
qualifications; not because the profession of the law is not
one of those avocations which are open to every American
citizen as matter of right, upon complying with the reasonable regulations prescribed by the legislature; but first upon
the ground that inconvenience would result from permitting
her to enjoy her legal rights in this, to wit, that her clients
might have difficulty in enforcing the contracts they might
make with her, as their attorney, because of her being a
married woman; and, finally, on the ground of her sex,
merely.
Now, the argument ab inconvenienti, which might have
been urged with whatever force belongs to it, against adoptinq the fourteenth amendment in the full scope of its language, is futile to resist its full and proper operation, now
that it has been adopted. But that objection is really without force; for Mrs. Bradwell, admitted to the bar, becomes
an officer of the court, subject to its summary jurisdiction.
Any malpractice or unprofessional conduct towards her
client would be punishable by fine, imprisonment, or expulsion from the bar, or by all three. Her clients would, therefore, not be ompelled to resort to actions at law against
her. The objection arising from her coverture was in fact

Dec. 1872.]

BRADWELL v. THE STATE.
Opinion of the court.

abandoned, in its more full consideration of the case, by the
court itself; and the refusal put upon the fact that the statute
of Illinois, interpreted by the light of early days, could not
have contemplated the admission of any woman, though
unmarried, to the bar. But whatever the statute of Illinois
meant, I maintain that the fourteenth amendment opens to
every citizen of the United States, male or female, black or
white, married or single, the honorable professions as well
as the servile employments of life; and that no citizen can
be excluded from any one of them. Intelligence, integrity,
and honor are the only qualifications that can be prescribed
as conditions precedent to an entry upon any honorable pursuit or profitable avocation, and all the privileges and immunities which I vindicate to a colored citizen, I vindicate to
our mothers, our sisters, and our daughters. The inequalities of sex will undoubtedly have their influence, and be
considered by every client desiring to employ counsel.
There may be cases in which a client's rights can only be
rescued by an exercise of the rough qualities possessed by
men. There are many causes in which the silver voice of
woman would accomplish more than the severity and sternness of man could achieve. Of a bar composed of men and
women of equal integrity and learning, women might be
more or less frequently retained, as the taste or judgment
of clients might dictate. But the broad shield of the Constitution is over them all, and protects each in that measure
of success which his or her individual merits may secure.
No opposing counsel.
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
The record in this case is not very perfect, but it may be
fairly taken that the plaintiff asserted her right to a license
on the grounds, among others, that she was a citizen of the
United States, and that having been a citizen of Vermont at
one time, she was, in the State of Illinois, entitled to any
right granted to citizens of the latter State.
The court having overruled these claims of right founded
,n the clauses of the Federal Constitution before referred

BRADWELL v. THE STATE.

[Sup. Ot

Opinion of the court.

to, those propositions may be considered as properly before
this court.
As regards the provision of the Constitution that citizens
of each State shall be entitled to all the privileges and immunities of citizens in the several States, the plaintiff in her
affidavit has stated very clearly a case to which it is inapplicable.
The protection designed by that clause, as has been repeatedly held, has no application to a citizen of the State
whose laws are complained of. If the plaintiff was a citizen
of the State of Illinois, that provision of the Constitution
gave her no protection against its courts or its legislation.
The plaintiff seems to have seen this difficulty, and attempts to avoid it by stating that she was born in Vermont.
While she remained in Vermont that circumstance made
her a citizen of that State. But she states, at the same
time, that she is a citizen of the United States, and that she
is now, and has been for many years past, a resident of
Chicago, in the State of Illinois.
The fourteenth amendment declares that citizens of the
United States are citizens of the State within which they
reside; therefore the plaintiff was, at the time of making
her application, a citizen of the United States and a citizen
of the State of Illinois.
We do not here mean to say that there may not be a temporary residence in one State, with intent to return to another, which will not create citizenship in the former. But
the plaintiff states nothing to take her case out of the definition of citizenship of a State as defined by the first section
of the fourteenth amendment.
In regard to that amendment counsel for the plaintiff in
this court truly says that there are certain privileges and
immunities which belong to a citizen of the United States
as such; otherwise it would be nonsense for the fourteenth
amendment to prohibit a State from abridging them, and he
proceeds to argue that admission to the bar of a State of a
person who possesses the requisite learning and character is
one of those which a State may not deny.

Dec. 1872.]

BRADWELL

v.

THE STATE.

Opinion of Justices Bradley, Swayne, and Field.

In this latter proposition we are not able to concur with
counsel. We agree with him that there are privileges and
immunities belonging to citizens of the United States, in
that relation and character, and that it is these and these
alone which a State is forbidden to abridge. But the right
to admission to practice in the courts of a State is not one
of them. This right in no sense depends on citizenship of
the United States. It has not, as far as we know, ever been
made in any State, or in any case, to depend on citizenship
at all. Certainly many prominent and distinguished lawyers
have been admitted to practice, both in the State and Federal courts, who were not citizens of the United States or of
any State. But, on whatever basis this right may be placed,
so far as it can have any relation to citizenship at all, it
would seem that, as to the courts of a State, it would relate
to citizenship of the State, and as to Federal courts, it would
relate to citizenship of the United States.
The opinion just delivered in the Slaughter-House Cases*
renders elaborate argument in the present case unnecessary;
for, unless we are wholly and radically mistaken in the principles on which those cases are decided, the right to control
and regulate the granting of license to practice law in the
courts of a State is one of those powers which are not transferred for its protection to the Federal government, and its
exercise is in no manner governed or controlled by citizenship of the United States in the party seeking such license.
It is unnecessary to repeat the argument on- which the
judgment in those cases is founded. It is sufficient to say
they are conclusive of the present 6ase.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

Mr. Justice BRADLEY:
I concur in the judgment of the court in this case, by
which the judgment of the Supreme Court of Illinois is
affirmed, but not for the reasons specified in the opinion
just read.
* Supra, p. 36.

BRADWELL v. THE STATE.

[-Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Justices Bradley, Swayne, and Field.

The claim of the plaintiff, who is a married woman, to be
admitted to practice as an attorney and counsellor-at-law, is
based upon the supposed right of every person, man or
woman, to engage in any lawful employment for a livelihood. The Supreme Court of Illinois denied the application on the ground that, by the common law, which is the
basis of the laws of Illinois, only men were admitted to the
bar, and the legislature had not made any change in this
respect, but had simply provided that no person should be
admitted to practice as attorney or counsellor without having previously obtained a license for that purpose from two
justices of the Supreme Court, and that no person should
receive a license without first obtaining a certificate from
the court of some county of his good moral character. In
other respects it was left to the discretion of the court to
establish the rules by which admission to the profession
should be determined. The court, however, regarded itself
as bound by at least two limitations. One was that it should
establish such terms of admission as would promote the
proper administration ofjustice, and the other that it should
not admit any persons, or class of persons, not intended by
the legislature to be admitted, even though not expressly
excluded by statute. In view of this latter limitation the
court felt compelled to deny the application of females to
be admitted as members of the bar. Being contrary to the
rules of the common law and the usages of Westminster
Hall from time immemorial, it could not be supposed that
the legislature had intended to adopt any different rule.
The claim that, under the fourteenth amendment of the
Constitution, which declares that no State shall make or enforce any law which shall abridge the privileges and immunities of citizens of the United States, the statute law of
Illinois, or the common law prevailing in that State, can no
longer be set up as a barrier against the right of females to
pursue any lawful employment for a livelihood (the practice
of law included), assumes that it is one of the privileges and
immunities of women as citizens to engage in any and every
profession, occupation, or employment in civil life.

Dec. 1872.]

BRADWELL

v.

THE STATE.

Opinion of Justices Bradley, Swayne, and Field.

It certainly cannot be affirmed, as an historical fact, that
this has ever been established as one of the fundamental
privileges and immunities of the sex. On the contrary, the
civil law, as well as nature herself, has always recognized a
wide difference in the respective spheres and destinies of
man and woman. Man is, or should be, woman's protector
and defender. The natural and proper timidity and delicacy
which belongs to the female sex evidently unfits it for many
of the occupations of civil life. The constitution of the
family organization, which is founded in the divine ordinance, as well as in the nature of things, indicates the domestic sphere as that which properly belongs to the domain and
functions of womanhood. The harmony, not to say identity,
of interests and views which belong, or should belong, to
the family institution is repugnant to the idea of a woman,
adopting a distinct and independent career from that of her
husband. So firmly fixed was this sentiment in the founders
of the common law that it became a maxim of that system
of jurisprudence that a woman had no legal existence separate from her husband, who was regarded as her head and
representative in the social state; and, notwithstanding some
recent modifications of this civil status, many of the special
rules of law flowing from and dependent upon this cardinal
principle still exist in full force in most States. One of these
is, that a married woman is incapable, without her husband's
consent, of making contracts which shall be binding on her
or him. This very incapacity was one circumstance which
the Supreme Court of Illinois deemed important in rendering a married, woman incompetent fully to perform the
duties and trusts that belong to the office of an attorney and
counsellor.
It is true that many women are unmarried and not affected
by any of the duties, complications, and incapacities arising
out of the married state, but these are exceptions to the
general rule. The paramount destiny and mission of woman
are to fnlfil the noble and benign offices of wife and mother.
This is the law of the Creator. And the rules of civil society

BRADWELL V.

THE STATE.

ESup. Ct.

Opinion of Justices Bradley, Swayne, and Field.

must be adapted to the general constitution of things, and
cannot be based upon exceptional cases.
The humane movements of modern society, which have
for their object the multiplication of avenues for woman's
advancement, and of occupations adapted to her condition
and sex, have my heartiest concurrence. But I am not prepared to say that it is one of her fundamental rights afid
privileges to be admitted into every office and position, including those which require highly special qualifications and
demanding special responsibilities. In the nature of things
it is not every citizen of every age, sex, and condition that
is qualified for every calling and position. It is the prerogative of the legislator to prescribe regulations founded on
nature, reason, and experience for the due admission of
qualified persons to professions and callings demanding
special skill and confidence. This fairly belongs to the
police power of the State; and, in my opinion, in view of
the peculiar characteristics, destiny, and mission of woman,
it is within the province of the legislature to ordain what
offices, positions, and callings shall be filled and discharged
by men, and shall receive the benefit of those energies and
responsibilities, and that decision and firmness which are
presumed to predominate in the sterner sex.
For these reasons I think that the laws of Illinois now
complained of are not obnoxious to the charge of abridging
any of the privileges and immunities of citizens of the
United States.
Mr. Justice SWAYNE and Mr. Justice FIELD concurred in the foregoing opinion of Mr. Justice BRADLEY.
The CHIEF JUSTICE dissented from the judgment of
the court, and from all the opinions.

