Dec. 1871.]

EX

PARTE UNITED STATES.
Statement of the case.

Ex PARTE: IN THE MATTER OF THE UNITED STATES.
1. The power of the Court of Claims, under the second section of the act of
June 25th, 1868, to grant a new trial in favor of the United States, if
moved for within two years next after the final disposition of the suit,
is not taken away by the affirmance of the judgment on appeal, and the
filing in that court of the mandate of affirmance.
2. Where a court is, like the Court of Claims, composed of five judges, and
a motion for a new trial of a case is argued before, and submitted to,
four of them, who, in conference, are equally divided in opinion; but
the majority do not order any judgment to be announced in open court
based upon such equal division, and none is so announced; and afterwards a majority of the whole court remand the motion to the law
docket for reargument; the fact that two of the judges, at the time of
such remanding, file their decision that the motion be denied upon the
merits, does not decide the question involved in the motion, nor take
away the jurisdiction of the court to hear and decide the motion upon
reargument.
8. In such a case a peremptory mandamus issues, commanding the court to
proceed to hear and decide the motion.

ON motion by the Attorney-General, for an alternative
writ of mandamus directed to the Court of Claims, commanding the said court to hear and decide certain motions
for a new trial in the case of Russell v. The United States*
(in which case the said Russell setup a claim for services of
the steamer J. H. Russell, which he alleged had been impressed into the service of the United States during the rebellion), and for stay of payment of a judgment given by
the said court against the United States in that case; or in
default thereof to show cause to the contrary.
[This case was a continuation in another form of -Ex parte
1ussell,t where this court had occasion to consider the meaning'of the act of June 25th, 1868, which enacts that the
Court of Claims, at any time while any suit is pending before or on appeal from it, or within two years after "the
final disposition" of any such suit, "may, on motion, on
behalf of the United States, grant a new trial . . . and stay
the payment of any judgment;" and where, on the same
* See 13 "Wallace,623.

t Ib. 664.

Ex

PARTE UNITED STATE,.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

facts as are hereinafter stated, the Supreme Court held that
the words "final disposition" extend to a final disposition
of any case before it, and that mandamus and not appeal was
the proper remedy. The points involved in this case will
be better understood by reading the report of that one.]
The rule nisi being granted, the chief justice and judges
of the Court of Claims, in answer to the rule, submitted to
this court the following statement of the facts connected
with the motions specified in the rule, and the action of the
Court of Claims and the judges thereof, in reference to the
first named of the said motions; the said statement by them
being dated April 24th, 1872, and signed by the whole five
judges of the court.*
" On the 1st of June, 1871, the Assistant Attorney-General
of the United States filed in the said Court of Claims, on behalf of the defendants, a motion for a new trial in the case of
Bussell v. The United States, and assigned as a ground for the
motion that fraud, wrong, and injustice had been done in the
premises, in this: that for a part of the amount for which judgment had been rendered by this court in favor of the said Russell, his receipt in full had been found in the office of the Third
Auditor of the Treasury, which receipt had come to the knowledge of the Attorney-General after the rendition of said judgment.
"On the 18th of September, 1871, he filed in the clerk's office
of the court a specification of additional reasons for a new trial
in support of the motion filed by him on the 1st of June, 1871,
as aforesaid; one of which specifications indicated that, owing
to a variance between the original depositions filed in the cause
by the claimant and the printed copies thereof, upon which the
judgment was rendered in favor of Russell, the said judgment
was largely in excess of the amount which Russell should have
recovered, as appeared from the actual evidence in the case,
which variance had come to the knowledge of the AttorneyGeneral after the rendition of the judgment in favor of Russell ;
and the other of the specifications averred that it appeared,
from original receipts on file in the office of the Third Auditor
of the Treasury, and from original reports on file in the office
* Drake, 0. J., and Loring, Peck, Nott, and Milligan, JJ.

Dec. 1871.]

EX PARTE UNITED STATES.

Statement of the case.
of the Quartermaster-General (copies of which receipts and
reports were filed with the said specifications), that the steamer
J. H. Russell was not seized or impressed into the service of the
United States, as alleged by Russell, and as this court found,
but was employed by the United States simply as a common
carrier; and that Russell had been paid in full for the services
of the boat during the time covered by the judgment; and that
the said receipts and reports first came to the knowledge of the
Attorney-General after the rendition of the judgment in favor
of the said Russell.
"On the 22d of November, 1871, the said motion for a new
trial having been argued on behalf of the defendants in support
of it, and on behalf of the *said Russell against it, before the
court composed of Drake, Chief Justice, and Loring, Peck, and
Nott, Judges, was submitted to the court.
"In conference thereon the said judges were equally divided
in opinion; but the majority of them did not authorize any
judgment to be entered in open court upon the motion; nor
was any such judgment rendered.
"On the 11th of December, 1871, while the said motion was
still pending in conference before the judges to whom it had
been submitted, the Assistant Attorney-General filed a motion
in open court to remand the said motion for a new trial to the
law docket for a reargument;* and on the 13th day of the said
month, it was ordered by the majority of the courtt that a reargument of the motion for a new trial should be granted;
whereupon Judges Peck and Nott dissented, and Judge Nott
read in open court and placed on file the following opinion, giving reasons for their dissent:

' 'The defendants' motion for a new trial in this case was argued before
and submitted to four of the judges of this court for their decision. It was
also stated on the argument by the counsel for the claimant, and conceded
by the counsel for the defendants, that the Supreme Court had affirmed the
judgment of this court. Subsequently, and while the motion was still under
advisement, an oral suggestion was made by the Assistant Attorney-General
* The Court of Claims has a "1General Docket" on which all cases coming
into the court are entered in their numerical order, and a "Law Docket"
on which questions of law, such as the validity of demurrers, &c., are entered.-REP.
t Milligan, J., had now taken his seat on the bench; thus making a court
of. five p 3rsons.-REP,

Ex

PARTE UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
that the case be remanded and heard before a full bench, the only legal
reason assigned being the decision of the Supreme Court affirming the judgment of this court. The counsel for the claimant objected, on the ground
that the decision of the Supreme Court had been known and was announced
on the hearing. The suggestion of the Attorney-General was not a motion,
according to the rules of the court, but it was subsequently reduced to writing
and filed.
" ' We are of the opinion on these facts that the final judgment of :his
court, affirmed by the Supreme Court, is property which cannot be taken
away except by proceedings in due form of law, and that it should be protected by the full discharge of our judicial duty ; that the four judges who
heard the motion constitute a tribunal which can alone decide it, and that it
is the right of the parties to have it decided by them; that the fifth member
of the court, who did not hear it, and to whom it was not submitted, can
take no part in its disposition ; that the suggestion of the Assistant AttorneyGeneral presents no legal or just ground for ordering a reargument; and
that the defendants' motion for a new trial is unjust, inequitable, and contrary to the intent of both the statute and the common law, and it must be
denied.
' 1 We are also of the opinion that this decision, by a moiety of the four
judges constituting the tribunal that heard the motion, and to which it was
submitted, does, ipso facto, deny the motion, according to the constant and
invariable practice of this court and of the Supreme Court; and that on its
rendition an order should be entered by the court denying the motion.'
"On the 12th of December, 1871, the attorney of the said Russell produced in open court the mandate of the Supreme Court
of the United States, affirming the judgment rendered by this
court in favor of said Russell, and the same was ordered by this
court to be placed on file.
"On the 29th of January, 1872, the said motion for a new trial
came up before a full bench of this court for reargument, when
a majority of the court decided, for the reasons stated in the following order entered on the record of the court, that the said
motion should be dismissed, the Chief Justice and Loring, J.,
dissenting:
' 1In this case it was ordered that the defendants' motion for a new trial
be dismissed for want of jurisdiction, because, since the same was made, the
mandate of the Supreme Court has been filed affirming the judgment of the
court in this case, and because two of the four judges before whom the motion was argued, and to whom it was submitted on the 21st of November,
1871, have heretofore rendered and filed their decision that the motion be
denied upon the merits.'
"Since the making of this order no action has been taken by
this court in reference to said motion for a new trial.

Dec. 1871.]

EX PARTE UNITED STATES.

Judgment of the court.
"The reasons assigned in said order against the jurisdiction of
this court to hear and determine said motion, are the only cause
-whichthe majority of the court have to show why the alternative
mandamus should not issue from the Supreme Court in this case.
"In regard to the motion for stay of payment of judgment in
the case of said Russell, which was filed by the Assistant Attorney-General, on behalf of the defendants, on the 11th of Novembdr, 1871, no action has at any time been taken by this
court in relation thereto, and it is now on the files of this court
undecided. It was a motion to stay payment of the judgment
pending the said motion for a new trial, and the Assistant Attorney-General has not heretofore called it up for hearing."
Justices Peck and Nott, for themselves, gave these additional reasons against the rule:
"That the defendants, by voluntarily arguing their appeal in
the Supreme Court, after having made their several motions in
the Court of Claims, which they did not proceed to argue in apt
time, and by allowing the Supreme Court to proceed to judgment thereon while their motions in the Court of Claims were
still pending, were guilty of experimenting upon the decisions
of both courts, in a manner prejudicial to the ends of public
justice; and that the course pursued by them in the Supreme
Court while their motions in the Court of Claims were still pending, must be deemed a withdrawal of those motions from the
latter court. And that it was against the course of justice for
the defendants to subject the claimant to the expense and risk
of a needless trial in the Supreme Court."
After argument by Mr. G. IT Williams, Attorney- General,
for the motion, and Mr. William Penn Clarke, contra, the court,
on the 6th of May, 1872, ordered a PEREMPTORY MANDAMUS
to issue, commanding the Court of Claims to hear and decide the motions for a new trial.
On the 31st of August following, the claimant, Russell,
filed in the Court of Claims a remittitur of $4000 of his
judgment, being one of the sums on account of the allowance of which in the judgment of that court, the defendants
moved for a new trial; and the remainder of his claim was
paid at the Treasury.

