402

HUNTINGTON

v.

TEXAS.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

But we pursue this branch of the case no further. We
have already said enough to show that, in our opinion, there
was no error in the decree of the court below.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

HUNTINGTON

v.

TEXAS.

TEXAS v. HUNTINGTON.
1. Statement of the points adjudged in Texas v. White - Chiles (7 Wallace,
700), and Texas v. Hardenberg (10 Id. 68).
:2. The State of Texas provided in an act of December 16th, 1851, authorizing the comptroller of public accounts to receive five thousand bonds,
issued, of $1000 each, to the State by the United States, and payable to
bearer, that "no bond issued as aforesaid . . . payable to bearer, shall be
available in the hands of any holder until the sante shall have been indorsed...
hy the governor of the State of Texas."

The legislature of the State, when

in rebellion, by an act of January 11th, 1862, repealed this act of December 16th, 1851. Held, that notwithstanding what may have been
said in Texas v. White 4 Chiles, and in Texas v. Hardenberg, the repealing act was valid as to bonds issued and used for a lawful purpose,
and that the title of the State to such bonds, without indorsement,
passed to the holder unaffected by any claim of the State.
S. No presumption can arise from the absence of such indorsement on the
bonds that they had been issued without authority, and for an unlawful
purpose, and the presumption that they had been issued with authority
and for a lawful purpose is in favor of the holders of the bonds, especially after payment by the United States.
4. It was primarily the duty of the government, as the United States were
the obligors in the bonds, and the rebellion was waged against them, to
ascertain and decide whether bonds presented to and paid by it had or
had not been issued and used in aid of the rebellion; and after such decision the presumption must be that the parties who held the bonds were
entitled to payment as against the reconstructed State of Texas.
5. Whether an alienation of the bonds by the usurping government divested
the title of the State, depends on other circumstances than the quality
of the government. If the object and purpose of it were just in themselves and laudable, the alienation was valid; but if, on the contrary,
the object and purpose were to break up the Union and overthrow the
constitutional government of the Union, the alienation was invalid.

Dec. 1872. ]

D UNTINGTON v. TEXAS.
Statement of the case.

6. No other than a holder of the bonds, or one who, having held them, has received the proceeds with notice of the illegal transfer for an illegal purpose, can be held liable to the claim of the reconstructed State. After
presentment, recognition, and order of payment, any one never having
held or controlled the bonds, may receive the proceeds on a proper
order.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the District of Cqlumbia;
the case being thus:
The United States, on the 1st of January, 1851, issued to
the State of Texas for the sale of a portion of her northwestern territory, five thousand coupon bonds of $1000 each,
numbered successively from No. 1 to No. 5000, and "redeemable after the 31st day of December, 1864." They were
made on their face all payable "to bearer," and declared to
be transferable on delivery. The coupons, which extended
to December 31st, 1864, and no farther, were equally payable "to bearer." These bonds were known as Texas indemnity bonds.
On the 16th of December, 1851, in anticipation of the
bonds being delivered to it, the State of Texas passed an act,
authorizing their governor to receive them from the United
States,

"And when received, to deposit them in the treasury of the
State of Texas, to be disposed of as may be provided by law; pro-

vided, that no bond issued as aforesaid, as a portion of the said
$5,000,000 of stock, payable to bearer, shall be available in the
hands of any holders until the same shall have been indorsed in the
city of Austin, by the governor of the State of Texas."

After this act of December 16th, 1851, and between that
day and the 11th of February, 1860, the State of Texas
passed thirteen different acts providing for the sale or disposal of these same bonds; for lawful State purposes; as ex
gr., paying the public debt of the State; the erection of a
State capitol; to establish a system of schools, &c., &c.; none
-of these acts requiring in terms an indorsement of the bonds
by the governor, as required in the above-quoted act of De,cember 16th,.1851, nor any of them designating by num-

HUNTINGTON V. TEXAS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

bers on them the particular bonds to be appropriated to the
particular objects authorized. Subsequently to this again,
the rebellion having broken out, and the State having gone
over to the rebel side, and there being a large number of these
bonds still undisposed of in the State treasury, the legislature
of Texas, by an act of January 11th, 1862, repealed the act
of December 16th, 1851 (making an indorsement necessary),
and the then authorities of Texas, in January, 1865, sold or
transferred certain of the bonds to two persons, White and
Chiles, for the purpose of aiding the rebellion. In the cases.
of Texas v. White 4- Chiles,* and Texas v. Hardenberg,t in
this court, it was determined that as against the true, that
is to say, the loyal State of Texas (citizens of which had.
stopped payment of them at the Federal treasury), no title
had passed to bonds which had been thus transferred; and
that notwithstanding the transfer, the reconstructed State
might reclaim the bonds or their proceeds.
How many bonds were transferred to White and Chiles,.
or what were their exact numbers, was not perfectly ascertained; but it was well known that the bonds transferred
to White and Chiles did not comprise the whole issue for
$5,000,000, and that some of them had been transferred.
under one of the thirteen enactments already mentioned.t
In this state of things the State of Texas brought suit in
the court below against one Huntington, cashier of the First
National Bank of Washington, for the alleged conversion
of thirty-seven of the five thousand bonds, originally issued.
to the State.
Of these thirty-seven bonds, ten had been held by one Haas,
and were presented and filed at the Treasury Department in
July, 1865, by him. After payment of them had been officially recommended by the first comptroller of the treasury,.
Huntington, at the request of Haas and his attorney, Mr. F.
P. Stanton, advanced to them the money on the warrant
expected to be issued. Haas accordingly, by letter, dated.
t 10 Id. 68.
7 Wallace, 700.
1 See Report of Mr. Comptroller Taylor, submitted to Mr. Secretary
McCulloch, August 15th, 1865.

Dec. 1872.]

HUNTINGTON V. TEXAS.
Statement of the case.

September, 1866, addressed through his attorney to the Secretary of the Treasury, requested that payment should be
made to Huntington; and a few days afterwards, that _'Eto
say in September, 1866, payment was so made.
As to thirteen others, they were presented and filed in
October, 1865, by Huntington himself, and paid to him on
the 25th of January, 1866.
The remaining fourteen had like the ten been held by
Haas, and were presented and filed by him, and after payment of them had been officially recommended, &c., as in
the case of the ten, Huntington, at the request of Haas And
his attorney, advanced to them the money on the warrant
expected to be issued, and Haas by letter, dated January 1st,
1866, addressed through his attorney to the Secretary of the
Treasury, requested that payment should be made to Huntington, who, in regard to these fourteen also, had advanced
the money to be paid on them. A few days afterwards payment of these fourteen was so made.
The reader will thus understand that thirteen bonds were
presented by and paid to Huntington himself, while the remaining twenty-four had never come in any way into his
fands; his only relation to them whatever having been that
4,fter the presentation of them by others and the official rec. mmendation of payment of them, he had advanced the
himount of the warrant expected to be issued, to the former
.folders of the bonds, now surrendered to the treasury, and
aken from them a request to the Secretary of the Treasury
khat the amounts due should be paid to him.
When the first ten (of Haas's) bonds were paid, the claim
of the State of Texas in relation to bonds said to have been
illegally transferred, in January, 1865, to White and Chiles,
had not been made known to the Treasury Department;
but the fact that the State had a claim in relation to such
bonds had been communicated to Huntington before the
295th of January, 1866, the date of the payment of the thirteen bonds which he had himself presented and received
payment of. Huntington then stated that he had bought
the bonds in October, 1865, before hearing of that claim, and

HUNTINGTON

v.

TEXAS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

on the faith of the payment in September of the bonds presented in the name of Haas by Mr. Stanton.
In the absence of knowledge whether or not the bonds
presented by Huntington were affected by the claim of the
State referred to, the comptroller recommended their payment.
It also appeared-or at least the defendant's evidence
tended to show this-that before purchasing the thirteen
bonds presented for payment in October, 1865, Huntington
made inquiries at the Treasury Department for the purpose
of ascertaining whether it had any objection to the payment
of them; that he was informed by the officers to whom he
applied of no objection to their payment, and that they
thought they would have to be paid; and that he accordingly purchased them at 96 cents in gold.
It appeared that during the rebellion the Secretary of the
Treasury had decided not to pay the coupons of Texas indemnity bonds, except where the bonds were indorsed by
some loyal governor of the State. When the rebellion terminated, the question as to the payment of these bonds, as
they reappeared, became so urgent that it was taken into
consideration by the First Comptroller of the Treasury at
the request of the Secretary of the Treasury; and, on August
15th, 1865, that officer furnished the secretary with an elaborate opinion, recommending the payment of unindorsed
bonds to holders who received them in good faith. In accordance with this opinion the department commenced the
redemption of these bonds, and payments were made as
rapidly as the cases which had accumulated could be examined. After notice reached the department of the discovery of the White & Chiles transactions, there was a temporary suspension of the redemption of bonds, which it was
suggested might have passed through their hands. The department made efforts to ascertain the numbers of the bonds
involved in that transaction, and all practicable endeavors
to protect any interest which the State of Texas might have
in the premises; and after finding it impossible to determine
the numbers and description of the bonds involved in that

'Dec.
1872.]

HUNTLNGTON V. TEXAS.

407r

Statement of the case.

transaction, the department proceeded as before with the
redemption of indemnity bonds, under the opinion of the.
comptrollei of August, 1865; the comptroller, in each particular case, examining the bonds and recommending their
payment. Huntington made occasional inquiries at the department with reference to the indemnity bonds, and was
informed from time to time as to the condition of the question there. He was informed of the determination of the
department to delay the redemption of bonds long enough
to ascertain whether it was possible to do anything to protect the interests of the State of Texas in the bonds issued
to White & Chiles, and subsequently that it was impossible
for the department to give any information relative to the
numbers and description of the White & Chiles bonds.
In compliance with a request of the plaintiffs, the court
below instructed the jury that the goveifnment of Texas,
from August, 1861, to July, 1865, was a usurping government, incapable of performing any act which could legally
divest the title to property of the State, and that if the jury
should find that the bonds in question were alienated by
that government or its agents, that such alienation passed
no title; also, that the defendants could acquire no title to
the bonds without the indorsement of them by a governor
of Texas loyal to the United States; also, that if the defendants took the bonds after maturity, they took them subject to the right of property in them of the State of Texas;
and finally, that if the bonds were transferred after maturity
by persons exercising authority in Texas and at war with
the United States, then no matter how or from whom re
ceived by the defendants, they were still the property of the
plaintiff, and that the act of defendants in procuring payment of them from the United States Treasury, if that was
done, was a conversion, and niade the defendants liable for
their value with interest.
And in compliance with a request of the defendants, the
court instructed the jury, in effect, that if the bonds were
presented to the Treasury Department by holders other than
the defendants, and payment was ordered, and afterwards

IUNTINGTON

v.

TEXAS.

[Sup. C%.

Argument in support of the payment.

by the then holders the proceeds were directed to be paid
to the defendants and were received by them without ever
having had possession or control of the bonds, or having
claimed title to them, such receipt of the proceeds did not
amount to a conversion by the defendants.
The defendants excepted to the first instruction (their exception being a tenth exception taken by them), and the
plaintiff excepted to the second instruction.
In accordance with the first of the above instructions, the
jury found for the plaintiffs the value of the thirteen bonds,
paid on the 25th of January, 1866, and in accordance with
the second for the "defendants as to the other twenty-four.
The case was now here on the cross-exceptions.
Messrs. J. .Hubley Ashton and W. S. Cox, for Huntington,
cashier of the bank:
1. As to the tenth (the defendant's) exception. These bonds
were negotiable, and by the decisions of this court are to be
put on the footing of negotiable paper.* The title, therefore, is not affected by anything short of actual notice. They
are presumed, also, to have been received before maturity;t
and even if proved to have been taken by their last holders
when overdue, these may protect themselves under one who
took it before maturity,J and protect themselves, even though
they hd notice of an infirmity in the title, if they derive their
title to the instrument from a prior bond fide holder for
value.ยง
2. Now, although the defendants purchased the bonds
which they deposited for redemption, after they were redeemable, there is no evidence that the party from whom
they purchased had not received them before maturity.
The presumption is the other way; and defendants, standing in their place, are to all legal intents, primr facie the
holders before maturity, in good faith, and for a valuable
consideration, of these negotiable securities.
* Murray v. Lardner, 2 Wallace, 110.

-f Byles on

191.
1 Story on Notes,
Bills, 165; 2 Parsons on Bills, 9.
$ Dudley v. Littlefeld, 8 Shepley, 418; Smith v. Hliscock, 14 Maine, 451.

Dec. 1872.]

D

.UNTINGTONV.

TEXAS.

Argument in support of the payment.

8. We are met with the objection, however, that by the
act of the legislature of Texas, of December 16th, 1851, the
bonds ceased to be negotiable unless they were indorsed by
the governor of the State, and that this court has held in
Texas v. White . Chiles, and Texas v. llardenberg,that the act
of the rebel legislature of January 11th, 1862, repealing the
act of December 16th, 1851, is wholly void. To this we
reply, that as far as this act of January 11th, 1862, wag in
aid of the rebellion, it has been declared by this court to be
void. But, it is submitted, that with this exception only, it
was valid; and it fully authorized a transfer of the bonds
unindorsed, if issued for any lawful and innocent object.
It appears from various acts of the legislature of Texas,
thirteen in number, passed from January 81st, 1852, to February 11th, 1860, that the State had authorized the sale or
disposal of quantities of these bonds, exceeding in the aggregate, in fact, the whole $5,000,000 in the treasury of the
State. For all the objects and uses contemplated by this
series of acts passed prior to the rebellion, and, therefore, of
unquestionable validity, the repeal of the act of December
16th, 1851, was not a nullity; and bonds issued and put into
circulation under these acts, were negotiable and available
in the hands of holders, without the indorsemeut of the
governor. A large amount of the bonds may have passed
from the treasury of Texas into circulation under these acts,
long before their maturity, without the governor's indorsement, and the title of the holders of such bonds would unquestionably be good. If any of the bonds remained in the
treasury of the State, whether to the general account, or to
special accounts, they may thus have been lawfully put into
circulation, unindorsed, long before the White . Chiles transaction.
Thus, the purchaser of bonds would see that by a series
of laws, covering the whole amount of these bonds, they
might have been lawfully put into circulation before matu.
rity, without the governor's indorsement. As these several
laws did not designate any particular bonds, any of them
m'ght have been issued under any of the laws, without

HUNTINGTON

V. TEXAS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

regard to these particular numbers. The purchaser would
discover that, under any one of more than a dozen different
laws enacted prior to the rebellion, the bonds offered to him
might have lawfully issued before maturity. He would,
therefore, buy bonds of the United States expressed on their
face to be transferable by delivery without notice of anything affecting the negotiability of the particular bonds.
This series of enactments was not brought to view in the
arguments in Texas v. White & Chiles, or Texas v. .ardenberg,
and was not, therefore, considered by the court.

The instruction excepted to by the plaintf. This related to
the bonds that were not owned or controlled by the defendants. As to these bonds, the facts show no case of conversion. The defendants never had possession, use, or control

of them. They simply took an assignment of the debt of
the United States for the bonds, after they had been delivered
up to the government by the holder.
Messrs. R. T. Merrick and T. ".Durant,for the State, contra,
relied upon the cases of Texas v. White d Chiles, and Texas v.
.[fardenberg, as deciding all the questions in this case as to
the bonds purchased by the bank.

They contended that,

under those decisions, Texas indemnity bonds, in the condition of the present ones, unindorsed, and taken after maturity, could not be validly transferred, so as to convey title,
even to an innocent purchaser for value.
Upon the question as to the conversion of the bonds never
owned by the bank, they cited MeCombie v. Davis,* and Snow
v. Leathern.t
The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
We have held in Texas v. While & Chiles,t and Texas v.
.Hardenberg,ยง
1. That when a State by public statute requires the indorsement of its governor as a prerequisite to the valid

transfer of bonds belonging to it, and payable to itself or
* 6 East, 538.

7 Wallace, 700.

t 2 Carrington & Payne, 314.
10 Id. 68.

Dec. 1872.]

e1UNTINGTON v.

TEXAS.

Opinion of the court.

bearer, the holder of such bonds, without such indorsement,

will have no title as against the State, unless he can show
the consent of the State otherwise given to the transfer.

2. That an act repealing the statute requiring the indorsement of the governor, passed by the legislature when the
State is in rebellion against the United States, is a nullity
as to bonds issued without such indorsement, and for the
purpose of aiding the rebellion.
3. That such bonds remain the property of the State and
nay be reclaimed, or the proceeds thereof recovered in a
proper action by that State when the rebellion has ceased,
against any one in possession of the same, with notice of the
intent with which they were issued and used.
4. That the existence of the rebellion at the time of the
repealing act, was a public fact with notice of which all persons were charged, and that when the bonds were purchased
after they had become payable, the purchaser took them
subject to all the equifable rights of the State when its relations to the Union had been restored.
But it must be observed that we have not held that such
a repealing act was absolutely void, and that the title of the
State could in no case be divested. On the contrary, it may
be fairly inferred from what was said in Texas v. White, that
if the bonds were issued and used for a lawful purpose, the
title passed to the holder unaffected by any claim of the
State. Title to the bonds issued to White & Chiles was held
not to be divested out of the State, because of the unlawful
purpose with which they were issued, and because the
holders were, in our opinion, chargeable with notice of the
invalidity of their issue and of their unlawful use.
If, in that case, there had been proof that a large portion
of the bonds issued without the indorsement of the governor, were in fact issued for legitimate objects, and were
applied to legitimate purposes, no presumption could have
arisen from the absence of that indorsement that the particular bonds which were the subject of controversy in that
case, had been issued without authority and for an unlawful
purpose. If, for example, it had appeared that bonds to a

HUNTINGTON V. TEXAS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

large amount bad been issued unindorsed, and applied to
the support of schools, or to the maintenance of asylums for
the insane, for the deaf mute, or the blind, or to other purposes equally legitimate, the presumption, especially after
payment by the United States, would have been in favor of
the holders of bonds and not against them. We say especially after payment by the United States, for the United States
were the obligors in the bonds, and it was against the United
States that the rebellion had been waged, and it was primarily the duty of the government to ascertain and decide
whether the bonds had or had not been issued and used in
aid of rebellion, and had, therefore, presumptively passed
into the hands of holders not entitled to payment as against
the reconstituted State of Texas.
The action of the government in refusing payment, during the war, of the coupons of the unindorsed bonds, increased the significance of its action in paying not only the
coupons, but the bonds themselves, after the war had terminated. The bonds and coupons could only have been paid
on proof, satisfactory to the government, that the title of the
State had been divested by its actual authorities for some
legitimate purpose, or if otherwise, then to parties not
chargeable with notice of the unlawful issue and use. Any
other payment would have been a wrong to the reconstituted State.
There was no such proof in either of the cases formerly
decided. Whether there was evidence in the present case
establishing the fact of unlawful issue and use, and the
further fact of notice to the defendants, within the principles heretofore laid down, as now explained and qualified, is
for the jury.
We think it unnecessary to examine all the exceptions
taken in this case. We shall confine ourselves to the tenth
exception taken by the defendants, and to the one taken by
the plaintiffs.
We think that the instruction, embodied in this tenth exception, was calculated to mislead the jury. Indeed it could
hardly fail to do so. Whether the alienation of the bonds,

Dec. 1872.]

HUNTINGTON

V.

TEXAS.

Opinion of the court.

by the usurping government, divests the title of the State,
depended, as we have said, upon other circumstances than
the quality of the government. If the government was in
actual control of the State, the validity of its alienation must
depend on the object and purpose of it. If that was just in
itself and laudable, the alienation was valid; if, on the contrary, the object and purpose were to break up the Union
and to overthrow the constitutional government of the Union,
the alienation was invalid. So the most that could be said
of the absence of the indorsement of the governor, was that
it raised a presumption against the validity of the alienation,
not that no title to the bonds could be obtained without
such indorsement. So, too, it cannot have been correct to
say without qualification that the defendants took the bonds,
if originally transferred by persons exercising authority in
Texas, at war with the United States, subject to all the equities existing against the usurping government. That would
depend upon the character and object of the original transfor. And the final proposition of the instruction must be
qualified according to these principles, to make it conform
to the law as we understand it.
But in our judgment, the instruction given upon the request of the defendants and excepted to by the plaintiff, was
quite correct. We are entirely satisfied with it. We think
it clear that no one other than a holder of the bonds, or one
who, having held them, has received the proceeds, with notice of the illegal transfer for an illegal purpose, can be held
liable to the claim of the reconstituted State. After presentment, recognition, and order of payment, any one, never
having held or controlled the bonds, may receive the proceeds upon a proper order. In such a case the State must
look to the United States, if bonds still belonging to her
have been paid to third parties, after presentment and allowance, in favor of holders without good title.
But while we sustain this ruling, the judgment, for erroneous instructions in other respects, must be REVERSED, and
the cause must be remanded for further proceeding
IN

ACCORDANCE WITH THIS OPINION.

