IIANRICK

v.

BARTON.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

Where the record shows that the answer of the respondent
was stricken out by the court, in a case in which the respondent was entitled to a trial by jury, and judgment was rendered against him as upon default, the court will not presume that the order was passed for good cause, unless
enough is shown in the record to warrant such a conclusion.
JUDGMENT REVERSED, and the cause remanded with directions to permit the claimants to answer, and to award
A VENIRE.

HANRICK V. BARTON.
1. In Texas titles, before the adoption of the common law, a title of possession issued to an attorney in fact of the original grantee for the latter's
use, vested the title in such grantee, and not in the attorney.
2. The original grant by the government was regarded as the foundation of
the title; and the extension of that title upon specific lands, if made for
the benefit of the original grantee, vested title in him.
3. The papers of the original title, from the government grant to the title
of possession (called the espediente), properly belong to the archives
of the General Land Office, and include a power of attorney from the
grantee to obtain the possessory title.
4. Certified copies of such papers from the General Land Office are admissible in evidence, and are then evidence for all purposes for which the
originals could be adduced.
5. Under the Mexican-Spanish law formerly prevailing in Texas, a power
of attorney to sell and convey land was properly executed by the attorney in his own name, specifying that he executed the deed as attorney
for his principal.
6. In order to render a certified copy of a deed admissible in evidence in
Texas, it must be filed with the papers in the cause at least three days
before the commencement of the trial; but the affidavit of loss of the
original deed need not be filed until the trial.
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Western District of
Texas.
Edward Hanrick, a citizen of Alabama, in December,
1860, brought two actions of trespass to try title, in the
nature of actions of ejectment, in the District Court of the
United States for the Western District of Texas, for the re-

Dec. 1872.]

EANRICK
. .
V.

BARTON.

Statement, in the opinion, of the case as to the first part of the third bill.

covery of eleven leagues of land in Falls County, in that
State, alleged to have been granted by the proper officers of
the State of Coahuila and Texas to one Atanacio de la Serda,
and claimed by the plaintiff as owner in fee. The original
plaintiff having died, the present plaintiff was admitted to
prosecute the action as his administrator and only heir.
The defendants pleaded:
1st. The general issue;
2d. Title under one Thomas J. Chambers; and
3d. The statutes of limitation of three and ten years.
A jury being waived, the two causes were consolidated
and tried by the court as one cause, in July, 1870, and the
court found and decided that the plaintiff had failed to make
out legal title to the land in controversy in Edward Han,
rick, and gave judgment for the defendants, without passing
upon the issues raised on the statutes of limitation. The
case was brought here by the plaintiff upon certain bills of
exception taken during the trial of the cause, showing rulings of the court adverse to the plaintiff, which were material
to the result, and which, he alleged, were erroneous.
Mr. Conway -Robinson, with whom was Mr. W. G. -Hale,for
the plaintiff in error; Mr. G. F. More, contra.
Mr. Justice BRADLEY stated the case in its different
parts, as it arose on the exceptions, in their order, and delivered the opinion of the court.
The first and second bills relate to certain rulings upon
replications proffered by the plaintiff to the pleas of the
statute of limitations. As these became immaterial from
the final view which the court below took of the case, which
relieved the defendants from relying on the statutes of limitation, we will consider the other bills.
The plaintiff produced in evidence a properly certified
and translated copy from the General Land Office of the
following title-papers, on which he relied for showing a
grant of the land in controversy to Atanacio de la Serda.
1st. A petition 'y La Serda, described as a native and

H ANRICK

v.

:BARTON.

[Sup. Ct

Statement, in the oI inion, of the case as to the first part of the third bill.

resident of Nacogdoches, to the governor, dated October
29th, 1830, praying for a grant of eleven leagues of land in
the department.
2d. A grant by Governor Letona to La Serda, dated at
Leona Vicario, March 11th, 1831, for eleven leagues of
vacant land of the State, subject to the usual conditions of
colonization then in force.
3d. A blank unsigned application to the alcalde of Aus1833, purporting to be made by
tin, dated Austin, -,
Matthew R. Williams, attorney in fact of Atanacio de la
Serda, stating the grant made to him, and praying that title
of possession of the same might be made for eleven leagues
of land on the left bank of the river Brazos, within the colony of Austin and Williams.
4th. An order of Lesassier, alcalde of Austin, dated October, 1833, referring the application to Austin and Williams
for their approval, and if they approved it, referring it to the
principal surveyor, to survey the land.
1833.
5th. Consent of Austin and Williams, dated -,
6th. Survey by F. W. Johnson of the eleven leagues in
controversy for the attorney in fact of Atanacio de la Serda;
the survey being addressed to the alcalde.
7th. A grant or title of possession, purporting to be made
by Luke Lesassier, alcalde of Austin, acting as a commissioner under authority of the government, by which (as the
grant recites) in consideration of the sale made to Atanacio
de la Serda (referring to the particulars of the same), exhibited by the citizen Matthew R. Williams, attorney in fact
of said La Serda, he, Lesassier, declared as follows, to wit:
"I grant to and put the aforesaid attorney in fact of citizen
Atanacio de la Serda into real, actual, corporal, and virtual possession of eleven leagues of land, the same which he prayed for
and which the government sold him, situate on the left margin
of the river Brazos, &c."
Describing the eleven leagues in controversy; and after
specifying the terms and conditions to be complied with,
concluding thus:

Dec. 1872.']

c1ANRIC.K v.

BARTON.

Opinion of the court as to the first part of the third bill.

"Therefore, by virtue of the authority in me vested by the
before-mentioned decree, &c., I issue this present title, and do
ordain that an authentic copy thereof be taken and delivered
to the party interested, for the purp~ose that he may own, use,
and enjoy the land -which has been sold to him, for himself,.for
his children, his heirs, or successors, &c."
The plaintiff then offered in evidence a deed, dated the
8th day of July, 1838, which, it is conceded, was sufficiently
authenticated, and by which the said Matthew R. Williams,
as attorney in fact of La Serda (but in his own name as such
attorney), conveyed or attempted to convey the land in queslion to Asa Hoxey and R. M. Williamson, from whom the
plaintiff deduced title to himself. To the admission of this
-deed in evidence the defendants objected, and it was excluded by the court, which ruling constitutes the ground of
the first part of the third bill of exceptions.
The principal objections urged against this deed were,
first, that the plaintiff had not shown any valid and legal
authority from La Serda to Williams to sell and convey the
land; secondly, that the deed was not a valid execution of
the power, if such a power existed. Other objections were
assigned, from which it appears that the defendants had
contended that the title of possession was a grant to Williams, the alleged attorney, and not to La Serda, but that
the court had overruled the objection, and had held that it
was a grant to La Serda. If the grant enured to Williams
he would have needed no power from La Serda to make the
,deed in question; but if it enured to La Serda, of course
such a power was necessary. It is essential, therefore, to
-determine the effect of the title of possession issued by the
alcalde, Lesassier.
This grant, if judged by common-law methods of assurance, is not expressed in the most apt terms. At first blush
it seems to convey the land to the attorney in fact of La
Serda, and not to La Serda himself. But it seems to be in
the usual form used in such cases.* In construing Mexican
See Hancock v. McKinney, 7 Texas Reports, 884, where the same form

is used.

HANRICK

v.

BARTON.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court as to the first part of the third bill.

titles in Texas much greater stress seems to be laid on the
original grant made by the governor than is laid by us on
the ordinary land-warrant in government titles. In the land
system of the United States the final patent is the all-controlling document as to the legal title. But in Texas titles
the final " extension of title," as it is called, which is usually
issued by a local commissioner appointed for that purpose
(in this case the alcalde of Austin), is regarded more as a
certificate of location, issued for the purpose of designating
the particular land on which the original grant is to take
effect than as an independent grant. In Clay v. .Holbert,*
the court, speaking of a title very similar to that under consideration, says: "It is believed that, this being a sale of
laud, not made by the commissioner, but by the executive,
so far as the right of the purchaser is concerned, the commissioner's duty did not begin until after the right had been
acquired by purchase from the State; and it relates then
mainly to the reference to a surveyor, approval of the survey, and putting the purchaser in possession; and his [the
commissioner's] title was only evidence of the right acquired
by the purchaser, and did not give or convey the right, because the right bad accrued by the act of the State executive." It is true, the title of possession is necessary to render the original title perfect; for until it issues the original
grant does not attach itself to any specific land. But when
it is issued the original title is said to be extended upon the
particular land designated.
When, therefore, a grant from the governor to La Serda
is produced, together with a survey made at the instance of
a person who assumes to act as his attorney in fact; and a
title of possession is then shown, professing to put the attorney in fact, as such, in possession of the land surveyed, and
declaring that said title was issued in order that the party
interested might own and enjoy the land which had been
sold to him, for himself, his children, his heirs and successors or assigns, such title must be deemed to be issuel for
14 Texas Reports, 202.

Dec. 1872.]

8HANRICK V. BARTON.

Opinion of the court as to the first part of the third bill.

the benefit of, and to enure to, the original grantee. Its
legal effect must be to perfect title in him. And in so holding, we think that the court below was right. We do not
mean to say that the original grantee, if not prohibited by
law, might not have assigned his inchoate title to a third
person; nor that the title might not, by a grant in proper
form, have been perfected in such assignee; but we think
that the legal effect of the extension of title in this case, by
the document offered in evidence, was to perfect La Serda's
title, and not to vest title in Williams.
This conclusion renders it necessary that Williams should
have had a power of attorney from La Serda, in order that
a deed executed by him should have any efficacy in transferring the title to another. But no such power was among
the papers previously offered in evidence, at least so far as
appears by the bill of exceptions now under consideration.
But there was attached to the deed offered in evidence,
and offered with it, a document, consisting of a copy of the
original title-papers in Spanish, accompanied with an English translation, duly certified by the translator and tho
Commissioner of the General Land Office to be a true and
correct translation from the original Spanish title-papers in
said office. The papers thus certified were the title-paper&
previously given in evidence, and two other documents in
addition thereto, namely: first, a power of attorney from
La Serda to one J. S. Roberts, dated July 20th, 1832, authorizing Roberts to obtain possession and title of the eleven
leagues granted to La Serda, as before stated, and to sell
and convey the same, and to appoint one or more substitutes
in his place; secondly, the other additional document was
an act executed by J. S. Roberts, and dated December 10th,
1832, whereby he substituted Matthew R. Williams in his
rlace as attorney of La Serda.
It is apparent that if this power of attorney and act of
substitution were properly authenticated, they gave Williams full power to sell and convey, as well as acquire possession. The counsel of the defendants contends that they
were not properly authenticated; that they were private

HANRICK V. BARTON.

[Sup. CIL

Opinion of the court as to the first part of the third bill.

documents and no part of the original title; and, therefore,
did not properly belong to the archives of the Land Office,
but to the officer before whom, or clerk of the county in
which they were executed (in this case Nacogdoches), and
therefore that the certificate of the General Land Office
could not give authenticity to the copies. His proposition
is, "that copies of papers in the Land Office are not evidence
unless said papers properly form a part of the said archives
of said office." This general proposition is undoubtedly
correct. Private deeds, conveyances, or mortgages executed
before a notary between citizens, and having only a private
effect and operation, could not be regarded as belonging to
the public archives, but the originals or protocols would be
preserved by the notary, or officer acting as such, or turned
over to the county clerk having custody of the county records. But the set of documents which make up the original
title-papers of any tract of land, from the original petition
of the grantee to the final extension of title (usually called
in Mexico the " espediente"), do belong to the public archives. They either have to pass under the examination
and approval of the different officials concerned in granting
out the public lands as the basis of their acts, or they are
the very acts themselves of those officials, constituting the
preliminary and final acts of title, demonstrating for all
future time the alienation of a specific portion of the public
domain. Now, although some of these documents may contain private stipulations between the parties concerned, yet
their proper place of custody is the General Land Office,
and not private or local offices; and, if they belong to the
archives, certified copies of them are evidence. The original
act of 1836 establishing the General Land Office declares
(sec. 6) that the Commissioner of the General Land Office
shall be entitled to the custody of all the records, books, and
papers in any way appertaining to the lands of the Republic,
and that may now be in the care or possession of all empresarios, political chiefs, commissarios, or commissioners for
issuing land-titles, or any other person; and that the said
records, books, and papers shall become and be deemed the

Dec. 1872.]

HANRICK V. BARTON.

Opinion of the court as to the first part of the third bill.

books and papers of the said office. The fifteenth section
required all local registers, after recording powers of attorney, or any other instrument of writing connected with
the grant of orders of survey, to forward them to the Commissioner of the General Land Office, showing that such instruments were regarded as belonging to that office. The
power of attorney in the present case was specially referred
to and acted on in the final grant of title, as appears by its
recitals, and became a paper necessary for the Land Office to
have in its possession in order to see the ground for extending the title to Williams as the attorney in fact of La Serda.
Being thus an integral part of the original title, and belonging to the archives of the General Land Office, it was properly authenticated for all purposes by the certificates of the
translator and commissioner. The Land Office Act of December 14th, 1837, declared that certified copies of any records, books, or papers belonging to the office, should be
competent evidence in all cases where the originals could be
evidence.* The subsequent acts on the subject are equally
explicit.t
The next objection made by the defendants is, that although the power should be deemed sufficient, the deed was
not a valid execution of the power, being a conveyance by
Williams in his own name as attorney-of La Serda, and not
a conveyance in the name of La Serda by his attorney, Williams. The defendants' counsel is correct in saying that
this would have been defective at common law.t But in
Texas, at the time when this deed was executed, the Spanish
law with respect to transfers of title still prevailed. The
common law was adopted in its application to juries and
evidence on December 20th, 1836, but was not generally
adopted as the rule of decision in other respects until January 20th, 1840.ยง By the Mexico-Spanish law, prevailing in
Texas in 1838, the deed was framed and executed in the
ordinary legal form for transferring the title of the con.
* Paschal's Digest, Art. 4086.

$ Story on Agency,

147, 148.

t lb., Arts. 4088, 3715.
Paschal's Digest, Arts. 8706, 978

JIANRIOK

v.

BARTON.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case as to the second and third parts of the third bill.

stituent or party who executed the power of attorney. Sev.
eral instances of such deeds are to be found in the Texas
reports, and passed without objection. The form of a deed
to be executed by an attorney, as prescribed by the Spanish
Partidas, L. 61, Tit. 18, Partidas 3d, is given in 16 Texas, 68,
as follows:
" Know all men who may see these presents, that A. B., as
attorney of C. D., specially authorized by him to sell, &c., to
receive the purchase-money, and in his name to covenant, &c.,
does sell, &c."
Such instruments are deemed the act of the principal and
not of the agent. This being the law of Texas when the
deed was executed, it was sufficient, in form and mode of
execution, to pass a perfect title at that time from La Serda
to the grantees, for it is well settled that if a title once becomes vested no subsequent change of laws as to forms or
solemnities of conveyance will divest it.
The other objections raised to the admission of the deed
are all involved in those already noticed, and need no further examination.
The position so elaborately argued by the defendants'
counsel, to the effect that the title-papers appear never to
have been completed, no evidence having been given to
show that a teslimonio was ever issued, or that the final title
of possession ever became an executed instrument, cannot
be considered on this writ of error. We have no means of
knowing what evidence may have been offered to sustain
the title-papers admitted in evidence, except from the defendants' bill of exceptions, and that is not now properly
before us.
Our conclusion on the first part of the third bill of exceptions is, that there was error in rejecting the deed of 8th
July, 1838, executed by Matthew R. Williams, as attorney
in fact of La Serda.
In the second and third parts of the same bill, the plaintiff, after satisfactorily proving, by affidavits, the loss of a
certain deed executed by Matthew R. Williams, as attorney

Dec. 1872.]

7HANRICK V.

BARTON.

Statement of the case as to the second and third parts of the thirL bill.

in fact, and in the name of La Serda, dated 18th of May,
1850, whereby La Serda, by his said attorney, conveyed the
land in controversy to Edward I-anrick, the original pla'ntiff in this action, and after putting in evidence the titlepapers of La Serda, as stated in the first part of the bill,
and after the rejection of the deed of 8th July, 1838, and
the documents thereto attached, offered in evidence a duly
certified copy of the said deed of May 18th, 1850, from the
records of Falls County, Texas, which copy exhibited an
acknowledgment before a notary public of the execution of
the deed by Williams, as well as proof of its execution by
one of the subscribing witnesses. The certified copy was
objected to because the plaintiff did not file among the papers of the suit, three days before the trial, an affidavit of
the loss of the deed; and the court excluded it on this
ground.
The statute on this subject, passed 18th May, 1846 (omitting words immaterial to this case), is as follows :*
โข "Every instrument permitted or required to be recorded in
the office of the clerk of the county court, and which has been
so recorded after being proven or acknowledged in the manner
provided by law, shall be admitted in evidence without proving
its execution. Provided that the party who wishes to give it
in evidence shall file the same among the papers of the suit
three days before the commencement of the trial, and give notice to the opposite party. And whenever any party to a suit
shall file among the papers of the suit an affidavit stating that
any instrument recorded as aforesaid has been lost, or that he
cannot procure the original, a certified copy of the record of
such instrument shall be admitted in like manner as the original could be."
The plaintiff had duly filed among the papers of the suit
more than three days before the commencement of the trial,
the certified copy of the deed now offered; but did not file
any affidavit of the loss of the original deed; and this was the
Paschal's Digest, Article 8716.

HANRICK

v.

BARTON.

[Sup. Ot

The fourth and fifth bills stated and passed on.

ground of objection.

It is sufficient to say that the statute

does not require the proof of loss to be filed beforethe trial.
It declares that "whenever" a party shall file an affidavit
stating that an instrument has been lost, a certified copy
shall be admitted the same as the original could be. It
seems to us, that if the certified copy is filed three days before the commencement of the trial, with notice that the
party intends to offer it in evidence (as was done in this
case), it is a sufficient compliance with the statute. It is
conceded that the Texas reports do not furnish any authority
directly on the point; but it is understood that the practice
corresponds to the course followed in this case. At all
events, the statute seems to require nothing more. We
think, therefore, that the certified copy of this deed was improperly excluded, on the ground assigned for its exclusion.
Of course it could not be sustained as evidence in the cause,
unless it was proven that Williams had authority to act for
La Serda.
The fourth bill of exceptions is essentially the same as the
first part of the third, showing a renewed offer of the deed
of 1838, after proving the signature of the magistrate before
whom it was acknowledged, and tracing title from Hoxey
and Williamson to Hanrick. It needs no further discussion.
The fifth bill does not show any erroneous ruling. It
presents an offer by the plaintiff from the Land Office, of a
document purporting to be an agreement by La Serda to
sell the eleven leagues of land to Roberts as soon as possession should be obtained, under a penalty of $10,000, with a
mortgage of the grant, in case of failure to perform; and
also an offer of another document whereby Roberts assigned
this agreement to one Peebles; and, thirdly, a release from
Peebles to Edward Hanrick.
A conclusive objection to these documents (which was
made by the defendants) was, that they transferred no title.
They were mere agreements. Other objections were raised
against their admission, which it is not necessary to discuss.

Dec. 1872.]

THE OAYUGA.
Statement of the case.

The conclusion to which we have come is, that the judgment must be REVERSED, with directions to award a
VENIRE DE WOVO.

THE CAYUGA.
1. Where, on a reference by a District Court sitting in admiralty to asses
the damages done by a collision, the master after taking depositions re
ports a certain sum as due, but is not requested by the respondents it.
the case to return the testimony or his finding of facts into court, aniq
though returning certain parts of the testimony, does not return th i
whole, nor any finding of facts, and the court confirms his report an I
enters a decree accordingly-a decree affirmed by the Circuit Court- this court cannot, in the absence of the testimony and where the recoid
does not afford any satisfactory statement of facts to enable it to determine that there is any error in the report of the commissioner, review
that matter.
2. A steamer condemned in damages for an accident occurring to her tow,
which she was taking round a dangerous point with a very long hawser.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the Southern District
of New York; the case as appearing from the weight of testimony being thus:
The Cayuga, a steamer engaged in towing canal-boats
upon the Hudson River, took, on the 25th of May, 1867, the
canal-boat Floating Battery, loaded with sand, in tow at
Albany, to be brought to New York. The whole tow of
the steamer consisted of thirty canal-boats and two barges,
the latter being from .150 to 200 feet astern of the former.
The canal-boats were placed in six tiers, each consisting of
five boats, the Floating Battery being the starboard boat
of the hindmost tier, bringing her the nearest to the west
shore.
The distance from her to the Cayuga was about 1000 feet.
Upon the first night out, the Floating Battery was brought
in contact with a lighthouse near Coxsackie, with such force
that her lines parted and she was separated from the tow.
She was replaced, however, in her old position by the aid
VOL.

xvI.

12

