Dec. 1872.]

PLANTERS' BANK V. UNION BANK.
Syllabus.

transportation beyond it. It was with reference to this feature of the business that the tax was, in part, imposed; but
it was no more a tax upon interstate commerce than a general tax on drayage would be because the licensed drayman
might sometimes be employed in hauling goods to vessels
to be transported beyond the limits of the State.
We think it would be going too far so to narrow the
limits of State taxation.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Alabama is, therefore
AyFIRMED.

PLANTERS' BANK V. UNION BANK.
UNION BANK V. PLANTERS' BANK.
1. A military commander commanding the department in which the city of
New Orleans was situate, had not the right, on the 17th of August, 1863,
after the occupation of the city by General Butler, and after his proclamation of May 1st, 1862, announcing that "1all the ri&hts of property
of whatever kind will be held inviolate, subject only to the laws of the
United States," to seize private property as booty of war, or, in face of
the acts of Congress of 6th of August, 1861, and July 17th, 1862, make
any order as commander confiscating it.
2. Where after judgment for a certain sum a Temii itur is entered as to part,
the emititur does not bind the party making it, if the judgment be
vacated and set aside.
8. Where after judgment for a certain sum, execution is allowed, during a
motion for a new trial, to issue for a part of the sum, which part is admitted to be due, this, though anomalous, is not a ground for reversal,
where no objection appears to have been made, and where it may fairly
be presumed that the defendant assented to what was done; and where,
a new trial being afterwards granted, it was limited to a trial as to the
excess of the claim above the amount for which the execution was issued.
4 A promise to pay in "1Confederate notes" in consideration of the receipt
of such notes and of drafts payable by them, is neither a nudum pacturm
nor an illegal contract.
6. Though an illegal contract will not be enforced by courts, yet it is the
doctrine of this court that where such a contract has been executed by
the parties themselves, and the illegal object has been accomplished, the
money cr thing which was the price of it may be a legal consideration
betwees the parties for a promise express or implied, and that the court

484

PLANTERS' BANK V. UNION BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
will not unravel the transaction to discover its origin. The doctrine
applied to the case of money received for the sale of " Confedet tte
bonds."
6. Although, where money has been deposited with a bank, or drafts, &c., to
be collected in money, and there has been no contract or understanding
that a different rule should prevail, the bank where the deposit is made
ordinarily becomes the owner of the money and consequently a debtor
for the amount collected, and under obligation to pay on demand, not
the identical money received, but a sum equal in legal value, yet this
does not apply where the thing deposited was not money, but a commodity, such as "Confederate notes," and it was agreed that the collections should be made in like notes. The fact that the collecting bank
used the notes in their business does not alter the case. The case distinguished from Marine Bank v. Fulton Bank (2 Wallace, 252).

ERitot to the Circuit Court for the District of Louisiana;
the case being this:
On the outbreak of the rebellion of 1861, both the States
of Tennessee and Louisiana joined in that movement; and
while those two States were both under the control of the
rebel powers, the Planters' Bank of Tennessee (at Natchez)
remitted to the Union Bank of Louisiana (at New Orleans),
large sums of "Confederate treasury notes," and also forwarded to it drafts and other claims for collection (and a few
Confederate bonds for sale), it having been understood between the two banks that the drafts and claims thus forwarded for collection and the price of the bonds sent for
sale were payable only in such Confederate currency, and
all the collections made on account of the Planters' Bank
having been made in that currency, with its knowledge and
authority. In this way entirely a large balance was made
up in favor of the Planters' Bank. There was no controversy as to these facts.
About the 1st of May, 1862, New Orleans was recaptured
by the government forces and passed into their control. A
large balance, in the course of dealings already mentioned,
was at this time due the Planters' Bank.
On entering New Orleans, General Butler, the general
who took possession of it for the United States, issued a
proclamation, in which he declared:

Dec. 1872.]

PLANTERS' BANK V. UNION BANK.
Statement of the case.

"All the rights of property, of whatever kind, will be held
inviolate, subject only to the laws of the United States."
On the 6th of August, 1861, Congress passed "An act to
confiscate property used for insurrectionary purposes,' &c.,
and on the 17th of July, 1862, "An act to suppress insurrection, to punish treason and rebellion, and for other purposes." These acts designated certain agents for seizing
the property of rebels and prescribed certain judicial pro4ceedings for the condemnation of it in the courts of the
United States, when belonging to natural persons who
were rebels, to persons who aided, abetted, and gave comfort to the rebellion, or who held office under the so-called
Confedvrate States, or any State assisting to form them.
But neither of the acts gave authority to military commanders to seize such property, nor did either make the property
of any incorporated banks liable to such seizure.
In this state of things, an order was issued on the 17th of
August, 1863, by command of Major-General Banks, then
in command of the department, requiring the several banks
and banking associations of New Orleans to pay over with-out delay to the Chief Quartermaster of the army, or to such
officer of his department as he might designate, all money
in their possession belonging, to, or standing upon their
books to the credit of, any corporation, association, or prelended government in hostility to the United States, and all
Inoneys belonging to, or standing on their books to the
&ureditof, any person registered as an enemy of the United
States, or engaged in any manner in the military, naval, or
-civil service of the so-called Confederate States, or who
should have been or who might thereafter be convicted of
rendering any aid or comfort to the enemies of the United
States. The order declared that such funds would be held
and accounted for by the "quartermaster's department, subject to the future adjudication of the government of the
United States. Under this order the Union Bank, as the
evidence tended to show, on the 10th day of September,
1863, paid to the acting quartermaster the balance standing
to the credit of the Planters' Bank on their books, being the

486

PLANTERS' BANK V.

UNIoN

BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

whole balance due. The payment was made in Confederate
notes ($211,774) and the quartermaster accepted them indischarge of the balance.
On the 15th of the same September, 1863, the Planters'
Bank drew on the Union Bank for $86,646, the sum in Federal money which it conceived to be due to it. The Union
Bank refused to pay, alleging the seizure by General Banks
and payment over accordingly. Thereupon-on the 11th
of September, 1866-the Planters' Bank sued the Union
Bank in the court below, to recover its alleged balance, with
interest from the date of the demand. The defendant set
up the facts of the case as above given, and that the Confederate moneys sent to the defendant by the Planters'
Bank were issued and put in circulation by the said Confederate States during the rebellion for the purpose of
maintaining and prosecuting the war, &c.; that the dealings of the plaintiff in the said currency were designed on
its part to give, and did contribute to give circulation and
credit to such unlawful issues, and that it, the defendant,
was therefore not liable, on account of the receipt of such
currency, to the plaintiff in manner and form as by it alleged.
The case came to trial in February, 1868, and the jury
returned a verdict for the plaintiff for the amount claimed
in full, with interest, $113,296.01, and a judgment was entered accordingly.
A motion for a new trial was then made, and while the
same was undetermined and held under advisement, the following order was entered:
"6On motion of the attorneys for plaintiff it is ordered that a
remittitur of interest allowed in the judgment in this case be entered, except what is claimed as follows, &c."
On the same day the attorneys of the plaintiff, on the suggestion that the attorneys of defendant had, during the trial,
admitted in presence of the jury that there was due to plaintiff $26,752.63, with interest from 25th Iovember, 1863,
asked that an execution be issued for this sum; and the

Dec. 1872.]

PLANTERS' BANK V. UNION BANK.

487

Statement of the case.

motion was granted "without prejudice to the plaintiff's
right to recover the balance under the judgment in the
case."
The motion for a new trial was ordered to be reargued,
and after the reargument a new trial was granted, "excepting as regards the sum of $26,752.63, admitted by the defendant to be due to the plaintiff."
"
On the 24th of January, 1871, two years and ten months
after this, the case was again submitted to the jury, and
they being sworn to try the issues, the court, against the
defendant's objection, permitted the plaintiff to withdraw

his remittitur.
On this trial
the jury-

THE DEFENDANT

requested the court to charge

"That the generals commanding the army of the United
States, engaged in military operations against the rebels in the
late civil war, had the legal power to seize and take possessiqn
of the property or effects of rebels, whenever in their judgment
necessary or conducive to the successful prosecution of the war;
that the commanding generals were the sole judges [subject
alone to the control of their military superiors] of the necessity
or expediency of such seizures, and that if the jury find from
the evidence that the military authorities exacted payment of
the balance on the books of the defendant to the credit of the
Planters' Bank and its branches, then that the military authorities thus exacting payment were invested, as regards said payments, with all the rights of a creditor.
"That if the demand of the plaintiff arose from the receipt
of the so-called Confederate notes, with the authority of the
plaintiff, and the military authorities of the United States exacted payment of said demand [and accepted payment in Confederate treasury notes], and if the said payment was made accordingly to the said authorities under compulsion, and a receipt
in fuli given for the amount so paid to them, then that the said
payment and receipt are a valid acquittance and discharge of
the defendant from any liability to the extent of such part of
the demand of the plaintiff as arose from the receipt of the so.
called Confederate treasury notes for account of the plaintiff
with its authority."

488

PLANTERS' BANK V. UNION BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

The court did so charge, with the exception that it left
.out the important words in [ ]. It said:
"The jury will determine what the payment ought to have
-been. I consider that the military authorities had no right to
transact with the defendant in this case; Confederate money
was then almost worthless in the discharge of the debt due by
,the defendant to the Planters' Bank."
The defendant also asked the court to charge further:
"That if the balance of account sued for is composed, wholly
or in part, of direct remittances from the plaintiff to the defendant of Confederate treasury notes to be placed to credit of
the plaintiff, and of collections for their account of drafts, actually and in effect and intent, payable in Confederate treasury
notes, remitted for collections by plaintiff to defendant, and by
the latter collected for account of plaintiff in Confederate treasary notes, and that the banks Were necessary instruments of
the Confederate government in putting its issues of Confederate
treasury notes in circulation and forcing them upon the country,
and that the plaintiff, as one of the banks, willingly lent itself
as the instrument of the Confederate government to put those
issues in circulation, then, that the plaintiff cannot recover such
samount of the balance thus composed of treasury notes and
collections.'
"That no lawful or valid obligation can arise from the sale
of bonds or securities of the Confederate government, and no
action lies for the proceeds of such bonds."
But both these last two charges the court refused to give.
THE PLAINTIFF asked the court to charge"That if the jury find that the defendant received ' Confederate currency' on behalf of the plaintiff and entered the same
to the credit of the plaintiff on the books of his bank, and used
the same in its general business, the defendant thereby became
the debtor of the plaintiff, and the measure of the indebtedness
is the value of ' Confederate currency' in the lawful money of
the United States, at the time the credit was entered as aforesaid and the collections were made."
But the court refused thus to charge, and charged:
"That the measure of indebtedness for receipts or collections

Dec. 1872.]

PLANTERS' BANK V. UNION BANK.
Argument for the Union Bank.

made by the defendant in ' Confederate currency,' and used by
it in its general business, was the value of such currency at the
date of demand of payment made by the plaintiff, and not at
the date when such currency was received and used by defendant in its business."*
The jury found in favor of the plaintiff for $24,718, with
interest from the 15th of Septdmber, 1863, and judgment
was entered accordingly.
Both parties excepted,The defendant to the refusals of the court to charge as requested, to the allowance of a withdrawal of the remittilur,
and to the order of the court ordering execution for the
$26,752.63, before the motion for a new trial was determined;
The plaintiff to the refusal to charge as requested and to
the charge as given.
[It should be added (in order to explain a part of the argument, and of the dissenting opinion in this case), that by
acts of March 3d, 1863,t and the 11th of May, 1866,1 Congress enacted that it should be "a defence in all courts, to
any action pending or to be commenced," against any one
for "a seizure" of property when it was shown that such
seizure had been made under any "order . . . of any military officer of the United States holding the command of
the department, district, or place in which such seizure was
made."]
Messrs. P. Phillips and Conway Robinson for the Union Bank,
and in support of its assignment of errors:
1. Had General Banks authority to issue the order under
which the payment was made? If he had, it would clearly
follow that he had the right to place his own construction
on it, and to determine when and in what manner the debt
should be paid, and his receipt for the amount would oper* The reader will, of course, understand that between the two dates mentioned here "Confederate currency" had largely diminished in market
value.
14 Id. 46.
t 12 Stat. at Large, 756, 4.

490

PLANTERS' BANK V. UNION BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the Union Bank.

ate as complete a discharge of the debtor, as if it had been
executed by the creditor himself.
He had the power to issue the order. He was n command of the department, and the only representative of the
constitutional commander-in-chief. The order was issued
while the war was flagrant. In the absence of any prohibitory act of Congress, or order from his superior, he was
vested with the full power of doing all that the laws of war
permitted. Whatever the chief executive could do in those
portions of the country which had fallen by conquest under
his dominion, he could do.
In a case before Lord Tenterden, in 1830, on appeal from
the judgment of the Supreme Court of Bombay, it was shown
that the property was seized in a recently conquered province, long after it had been conquered, at a distance from
actual hostilities, and when courts of justice were exercising
their authority.
His lordship said:
"We think the proper character of the transaction was that
of hostile seizure made, if not flagrante,yet, nondum cessante bello,

and consequently the municipal court had no jurisdiction to adjudge upon the subject; but if' anything had been done amiss,
recourse could only be had to the government for redress."*
The right of the conqueror to acquire title to possess and
alienate both immovable and incorporeal property is treated
of by Dr. Phillimore.t Speaking of the case of payment of
a debt to a conqueror, subsequently to which the former
sovereign is restored, he puts these questions:
"Has the restored government the right to demand of the
debtor the payment which he has discharged during the interregnunt? Does it follow that if this government had the right
to exact the debt, it was the debtor's duty to pay it? Are the
two propositions convertible? Or, if so, may not the original
creditor demand a second payment?"
The author then quotes Bynkershoek, to the effect that
* Elphinstone v. Bedreechund, 1 Knapp, Privy Council, 360-1.

Vol. 3, p. 396.

Dec. 1872.]

PLANTERS' BANK V. UNION BANK.
Argument for the Union Bank.

the debt is satisfied and extinct; and this, he says, is unquestionably the opinion of the greater number of the most
able jurists; the conclusion from the analogies to be drawn
from the Roman law, and the international practice as
shown by treaties.
The order o~f General Banks has been approved by his
government; his receipts have of course been accounted for
by him. If, in the exercise of his power, "anything has
been done amiss" (we use the language of Lord Tenterden),
"recourse could only be had to the government for redress."
The government has passed laws protecting its military
officers for acts done during the war. It has thus interposed
itself in this case between the parties to the controversy.
If the order was originally illegal, the government has protected the officer from suit. It has made his acts its own,
and if wrong has been inflicted, the creditor can look only
to the good faith of Congress.
The question whether private debts are properly subjected
to seizure, has created much discussion. The case is often
provided for by treaty. The 10th article of the treaty of
1794, with Great Britain,* declares they shall not be "confiscated or sequestered." The articles of" Camillus," written by Hamilton in vindication of this article,t show the
violence with which the provision of the treaty had been
attacked.
His vindication of the principles involved proceeds on the
ground that whenever a government grants permission toa
foreigner "to bring his property within its territory, it tacitly promises protection." How, he asks, can it be reconciled
with the idea of a trust, to take the property from its owner,
when he has personally given no cause for the deprivation?
Again,
"Where the persons or goods of an enemy are found in our
country, there is a reliance upon our hospitality and justice;
there is an express or implied safe conduct; the individuals and
*.8 Stat. at Large, 122.
f Works of Hamilton, vol. 7, pp. 232, 233, 335.

PLANTERS' BANK V. UNION BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the Union Bank.

their property are in the custody of our faith. To make them
a prey is therefore to infringe every rule of generosity and
equity; it is to add cowardice to treachery."
The reason, therefore, for the denial of the right of such
seizure between two independent governments on the breaking out of war, would seem to have no application to a war
waged for the suppression of a rebellion, and we may further add that notwithstanding the strong language of " Camillus," the decisions of this court are decidedly in favor of
the right, even as between fbreign nations.*
Payment to a usurped government such as that of the
Confederates is held good on the principle of irresistible
force.
This court lately decidedt that the United States could
not recover against one of its officers who had paid over to
the Confederate authorities the amount due to the former,
for the payment had thus extinguished the debt.
In the case before us it can make no difference whether
the defendant held the plaintiff's funds on special or general
deposit; in other words, whether as bailee or debtor. The
order was not directed to obtain any property or funds of
the defendant, but to obtain the property or funds of the
plaintiff
To enforce now by judicial sentence a second
payment from the defendant, is to shield him intended to
be wounded, and wound the party intended to be shielded.
2. The order for a remittitur entered on the application of
the plaintiff, was a confession of record, that the amount
thus renounced was not due by the defendant. It was in
the nature of a judgment, and the court had no power after
the lapse of the term at which it was entered to set it aside.
It is like a judgment on retraxit, which is as complete a bar
as a judgment on verdict.1
3. It was equally erroneous to order an execution for a
part of the first judgment rendered while the motion for a
new trial was pending and uudisposed of. The defendant
* Brown v. United States, 8 Oranch, 110.
t United States v. Thomas, 15 Wallace, 337.
$ Thomason v. Odum, 31 Alabama, 108.

Dec. 1872.]

PLANTERS' BANK V. UNION BANK.
Argument for the Planters' Bank;

was thus deprived of his writ of error and supersedeas, and
was forced to pay the amount of this execution, as this was
not a final, judgment.
14. Can the dealing of these banks in Confederate
notes
and bonds, thus stimulating their circulation and enhancing
their value, be the foundation of a valid contract enforceable
in the courts of the United States?
The grounds of necessity which induced the court to declare that this currency constituted a sufficient consideration for a note in the case of Thorington v. Smith* do not
cover this case. There was certainly here no necessity for
the purpose of maintaining social existence in the South, to
deal in bonds given for the purpose of carrying on the rebellion, as there might have been in using the only money
there, the Confederate notes.
Mr. T. JT. Durant,for the Planters' Bank, and in support of
its assignment of error:
The court below erred in charging the jury that the
measure of indebtedness of the Union Bank to the Planters' Bank was the value of Confederate currency in National
currency at the time the Planters' Bank demanded payment
from the Union Bank, and not the value at the time the
Union Bank received the Confederate currency and passed
the amount thereof on its books to the credit of the Planters' Bank.
The exact matter was decided by this court in Marine
-Bankv. Fulton Bank.t There the latter bank, one of New
York, bad remitted to the former, a bank of Chicago, two
notes for collection, which was made. About a year after
the collection was made the New York bank made a demand of payment from the Chicago bank, which was refused unless the former bank would accept Illinois currency,
at the time of demand of payment sunk in value to 50 per
cent. below par.
In speaking of this collection, this court said:
"It was used by the bank in the same manner that it used
* 8 Wallace, 13.

t 2 Id. 256.

494

PLANTERS' BANK V. UNIoN BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

the money deposited with it that day by city customers, and
the relation between the two banks was the same as that be.
tween the Chicago bank and its city depositors. It would be
a waste of argument to attempt to prove that this was a debtor
and creditor relation."
The features of this case are so analogous to the case now
before us, and the reasoning of the court is so applicable
throughout, that we only refer to other cases* to the same
effect.
Mr. Justice STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
Whether the payment inConfederate notes, and the quartermaster's acceptance of them in discharge of the balance,
was a satisfaction of the claim of the plaintiffs upon the defendants is a controlling question in the case. The Circuit
Court instructed the jury that it was not, because payment
was made to the quartermaster in Confederate notes, which
the court was of opinion he had no authority to receive,
though holding that the military authorities thus exacting
payment were invested with all the rights of a creditor.
It might be difficult to maintain, if the military authorities
were clothed with the rights of creditors, that is, if they had
succeeded to the position and title of the plaintiffs, that they
could not determine what funds they would receive in payment of the balance on the defendants' books to the credit
of the plaintiffs. It is not perceived why they could not accept Confederate notes in discharge of a debt which had
become due to them. But a grave question lies back of
this. Did the order of General Banks justify any payment
of the balance to the military authorities? If it did not, it
is immaterial in what currency the payment was made.
Payment in any currency was no protection to the debtors.
The validity of the order is, therefore, the first thing to be
considered. It was made, as we have seen, on the 17th of
Commercial Bank of Albany v. Hughes, 17 Wendell, 100; Foley v.
Hill, 2 House of Lords Cases, 86; Carr v. Carr, 1 Merivale, 541, note; Sims
v.Bond, 5 Barnewall & Adolphus, 389.

Dec. 1872.]

PLANTERS' BANK V. UNION BANK.
Opinion of the court.

August, 1863. Then the city of New Orleans was in quiet
possession of the United States forces. It bad been captured
more than fifteen months before that time, and undisturbed
possession was maintained ever after its capture. Hence
the order was no attempt to seize property "ifagrante bello,"
nor was it a seizure for immediate use of the army. It was
,simply an attempt to confiscate private property which,
though it may be subjected to confiscation by legislative
authority, is, according to the modern law. of nations, exempt from capture as booty of war. Still, as the war had
not ceased, though it was not flagrant in the district, and as
General Banks was in command of the district, it must be
conceded that he had power to do all that the laws of war
permitted, except so far as he was restrained by the pledged
faith of the government, or by the effect of Congressional
legislation. A pledge, however, had been given that rights
of property should be respected. When the city was surrendered to the army under General Butler, a proclamation
was issued, dated May 1st, 1862, one clause of which was as
follows: "All the rights of property of whatever kind will
be held inviolate, subject only to the laws of the United
States." This, as was remarked in the case of The Venice,*
"only reiterated the rules established by the legislative and
executive action of the National government in respect to
the portions of the States in insurrection, occupied and controlled by the troops of the Union." That action, it was
said, indicated the policy of the government to be, not to
regard districts occupied and controlled by National troops
as in actual insurrection, or their inhabitants as subject, in
most respects, to treatment as enemies.
Substantial, complete, and permanent military occupation.
and control was held to draw after it the full measure of
protection to persons and property consistent with a necessary subjection to military government. We do not assert
that anything in General Butler's proclamation exempted
property within the occupied district from liability to confis* 2 Wallace, 258.

PLANTERS' BANK V. UNION BANK.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

cation as enemies' property, if in truth it was such. All
that is now said is that after that proclamation private property in the district was not subject to military seizure as
booty of war. But admitting, as we do, that private property remained subject to confiscation, and also that the proclamation applied exclusively to inhabitants of the district, it
is undeniable that confiscation was possible only to the extent and in the manner provided by the acts of Congress.
Those acts were passed on the 6th of August, 1861, and on
the 17th of July, 1862. No others authorized the confiscation of private property, and they prescribed the manner in
which alone confiscation could be made. They designated
government agents for seizing enemies' property, and they
directed the mode of procedure for its condemnation in the
courts. The system devised was necessarily exclusive. No
authority was given to a military commandant, as such, to
effect any confiscation. And under neither of the acts was
the property of a banking institution made confiscable.
Both of them had in view the property of natural persons
who were public enemies, of persons who gave aid and comfort to the rebellion, or who held office under the Confederate government, or under one of the States composing it.
In no one of the six classes of persons whose property was
by the act of 1862 declared subject to confiscation was an
artificial being included. It is, therefore, of little importance to inquire what, under the general laws of war, are
the rights of a conqueror, for during the recent civil war the
government of the United States asserted no general right
in virtue of conquest to compel the payment of private debts
to itself. On the contrary it was impliedly disclaimed, except so far as the acts of 1861 and 1862 asserted it. Those
enactments declaring that private property belonging to certain classes of persons might be confiscated, in the manner
particularly described, are themselves expressive of an intent
that the rights of conquest should not be exercised against
private property except in the cases mentioned, and in the
manner pointed out. And it is by no means to be admitted
that a conquering power may compel private debtors to pay

Dec. 1872.]

PLANTERS' BANK V. UNION BANK.

49"7,

Opinion of the court.

their debts to itself, and that such payments extinguish the
claims of the original creditor. It does indeed appear to be
a principle of international law that a conqiering state, after
the conquest has subsided into government, may exact payment from the state debtors of the conquered power, an&
that payments to the conqueror discharge the debt, so that
when the former government returns the debtor is not compellable to pay again. This is the doctrine stated in Phillimore on International Law,* to which we have been referred
But the principle has no applicability to debts not due t.
the conquered state. Neither Phillimore nor Bynkershoecln,
whom he cites, asserts that the conquering state succeeds tv
the rights of a private creditor.
It follows then that the order of General Banks was on e
which he had no authority to make, and that his direction
to the Union Bank to pay to the quartermaster of the army
the debt due the Planters' Bank was wholly invalid. This
makes it unnecessary to consider in detail the exceptions
taken by the defendants to the rulings of the Circuit Court,
respecting the order and the alleged payment under it; for
if the order was invalid, payment to the quartermaster didnot satisfy the debt.
It is further assigned for error by the defendants, that the
court allowed the plaintiffs to withdraw a remittitur entered
by them of part of a verdict obtained on a former trial of
the case. The only objection made in the -court below tY
the allowance was, that the remittitur was an acknowledg.
ment of record that the amount remitted was not due.
There had been a former trial in which the plaintiffs had obtained judgment for $113,296.01, with five per cent. interest
from November 25th, 1863. This was a larger amount of
interest than the petition of the plaintiffs had claimed, and
they entered on the judgment a remitlitur of the excess, expressly reserving their rights to the balance of the judgment.
Subsequently a new trial was granted, and it is now con* Vol. 3, part 12, ch. 4.

VOL.

XVI.

32

498

PLANTERs' BANK V. UNION BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

tended that the remittitur had the effect of a retraxit. As
it was entered after judgment, such would perhaps be its
effect if the judgment itself had not been set aside and a
new trial had not been granted.* But such cannot be its
operation now. If it takes effect at all it must in its entirety, and the plaintiffEs must hold their first judgment for
the balance unremitted. As that judgment no longer exists, there is no reason for holding that the remission of a
part of it is equivalent to an adjudication against them. This
assignment of error is, therefore, not sustained.
Another error assigned by the defendants is, that the
court ordered execution to issue on the judgment first recovered for the sum of $26,752.63, without prejudice to the
plaintiffs' rights to recover the balance, that amount having
been admitted to be due, and that this was done before the
motion for a new trial was disposed of. It must be admitted
that though there was a judgment in existence, the order of
an execution at the time it was made was anomalous. But
there does not appear to have been any objection to it, and
it is not shown that the defendants have sustained any injury in consequence of its issue. It may fairly be presumed
that the defendants assented to the order, and admitted that
the sum for which the execution was directed was due. The
new trial afterwards granted was limited to the controversy
respecting the excess of the claim over $26,752.63, which, as
the order stated, "was admitted by the defendants to be due
the plaintiffs."
The only remaining errors assigned by the defendants
which require notice, grow out of the refusal of the court to
charge the jury as requested, that if they found the balance
of account sued for was composed wholly or in part of direct remittances from the plaintiffs to the defendants of Confederate treasury notes, and of collections of drafts payable
and paid in such notes, and if they found that the banks
were necessary instruments of the Confederate government
* Bowden v. Horne, 7 Bingham, 716.

Dec.

1872.]

PLANTERS' BANK V. UNION BANK.
Opinion of the court.

for putting its issues of Confederate notes in circulation and
forcing them upon the country, and that the plaintiffs, as
one of the banks, willingly-lent itself as an instrument of
that government, then the plaintiffs could not recover such
amount of the balance thus composed of treasury notes and
collections. The point, it will be observed, does not assume
that the plaintiffs were willing agents, or agents at all of the
Confederate government in putting into circulation the notes
which went to make up the balance of account standing to
their credit. It assumes only that they had, as such agents,
put some of the issues of the government into circulation, at
some time, in some transaction with some person, not necessarily the defendants. That assumption, had it been sustained by the finding of the jury, was wholly impertinent,
and therefore the only relevant question presented by the
point was, whether Confederate treasury notes had and received by the defendants for the use of the plaintiffs were a
sufficient consideration for a promise, express or implied, to
pay anything. After the decision in Titorington v. Smith the
point could not have been affirmed. A promise to pay in
Confederate notes, in consideration of the receipt of such
notes and of drafts payable by them, cannot be considered a
vudum pactum or an illegal contract.
Nor should the court have charged that, in the circum.
stances of this case, no action would lie for the proceeds of
the sales of Confederate bonds which had been sent by the
plaintiffs to the defendants for sale, and which had been sold
by them, though the proceeds had been carried to the credit
of the plaintiffs and made a part of the accounts. It may be
that no action would lie against a purchaser of the bonds, or
against the defendants on any engagement made by them to
sell. Such a contract would have been illegal. But when
the illegal transaction has beeki consummated; when no
court has been called upon to give aid to it; when the proceeds of the sale have been actually received, and received
in that which the law recognizes as having had value; and
when they have been carrieod to the credit of the plaintiffs,
the case is different. The court is there not asked to enforce

PLANTERS' BANK v. UNIoN BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

an illegal contract. The plaintiffs do not require the aid
of any illegal transaction to establish their case. It is enough
that the defendants have in hand a thing of value that belongs to them. Some of the authorities show that, though
an illegal contract Will not be executed, yet, when it has been,
executed by the parties themselves, and the illegal object of
it has been accomplished, the money or thing which was the
price of it may be a legal consideration between the parties
for a promise, express or implied, and the court will not
unravel the transaction to discover its origin. Thus, in
_ailcney v. Reynous,* a plaintiff was allowed to recover in an
action on a bond given by a partner to his copartner for differences paid in a stockjobbing transaction prohibited by
act of Parliament. This was the case of an express agreement to pay a debt which could not have been recovered of
the firm. Petrie v. llannayt was a similar case, except that
the partner plaintiff had paid the differences by a bill on
which there had been a recovery against him, and his action
against his copartner for contribution was sustained. This.
was an action on an implied promise. Ex parle Bulmert
goes much farther, and perhaps farther than can now be,
sustained. We are aware that Faikney v. Reynous and Petriev. Hannay have been doubted, if not overruled, in England,
but the doctrine they assert has been approved by this court.ยง
Lestapies v. Ingrahaml is full to the same effect. We think,
therefore, the court was not in error in refusing to affirm the
defendants' points.
No more need be said respecting the exceptions taken
and errors assigned by the defendants below. None of them
are sustained.
A single assignment of error made by the plaintiffs belowremains to be considered. At the trial they asked for the,
following instruction: "If the jury should find from the
* 4 Burrow, 2069.

t 3 Term, 419.

$ 13 Vesey, 816.

Armstrong v. Toler, 11 Wheaton, 258; McBlair v. Gibbes, 17 Howard,
236; Brooks v. Martin, 2 Wallace, 70.
116 Barr, 71 ; see also Farmer v. Russell, 1 Bosanquet & Fuller, 296.

Dec. 1872.]

PLANTERS' BANK V. UNION BANK.
Opinion of the court.

evidence that the defendants received Confederate currency
on behalf of the plaintiffs, and entered it to the credit of the
plaintiffs on the books of the bank, and used it in their general business, the defendants thereby became the debtors of
the plaintiffs, and that the measure of the indebtedness was
the value of Confederate currency in the lawful money of
the United States at the time the credit was entered and the
collections were made." This instruction the court declined
giving, but in lieu thereof charged the jury that the measure
of indebtedness for receipts, or collections, made by the defendants in Confederate currency and used by them in their
general business, was the value of such currency at the date
of demand of payment made by the plaintiffs, and not at the
date when such currency was received and used by the defendants in their business. This refusal to instruct the jury
as requested and the instructions actually given are now
complained of as erroneous. We think, however, they were
correct in view of the assumed and conceded facts. We do
not controvert the position that generally a bank becomes a
debtor to its depositor by its receipt of money deposited by
him,, and that money paid into a bank ceases to be the
money of the depositor and becomes the money of the bank
wyhich it may use, returning an equivalent when demanded,
by paying a similar sum to that deposited. Such is undloubtedly the nature of the contract between a depositor
ind his banker. So also a collecting bank ordinarily beOomes the owner of money collected by it for its correspondent, and consequently a debtor for the amount collected,
under obligation to pay on demand, not the identical money
received, but a sum equal in legal value.
But it is to be observed this is the rule where money has
been deposited, or collected, and when there has been no
contract or understanding that a different rule should prevail. The circumstances of the present case are peculiar.It seems to have been conceded in the court below that the
deposits were made in Confederate currency, and that the
collections were made in like currency with the assent of the
plaintiffs. The instructions asked of the court assume this.

PLANTERS' BANK V. UNION BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

The Union Bank then became the agent of the plaintiffs to
receive and to collect, not money, but Confederate notes, or
promises, and the obligation it assumed was to pay Confederate notes when they should be demanded. The subject of
the contract was a commodity, not money, and there was no
default in the Union Bank until a demand was made and
refused. And from the nature of the transaction it is to be
inferred that the intent of the parties was that the one should
impose and the other assume only a liability to return to the
plaintiffs notes of the Confederate government like those
received, or collected; notes promising to pay a like sum.
And it is not perceived that the effect of the assumption is
changed by the fact that the defendants used the notes received in their general business, if they did use them, prior
to any demand for the fulfilment of their undertaking. Such
use was in contemplation of the parties from the beginning.
In Robinson v. lNoble's Administrators,* a promise to pay in
Cincinnati at a certain time, "in the paper of the Miami
Exporting Company, or its equivalent," was held by this
court to impose upon the promisor only a liability to make
good the damages sustained through his fiilure to pay at the
day, and that those damages were measured by the market
value of the paper at the time when payment should have
been made. The promise was assimilated to an engagement to deliver a certain quantity of flour, or any other
commodity, on a given day. A loan for consumption to be
returned in kind contemplates a restoration not of the identical thing loaned, but of a similar article equal in quantity,
and if no return be made, all that the lender can require is
the value of the thing which should have been returned at
the time when the contract was broken. The value at the
time of the loan is not to be considered. Both parties take
the risk of appreciation or depreciation. Why should not
a similar rule be applied to the present case? Ought the
plaintiffs to recover more than the damages they have sustained from the breach of the contract? Ought they to be
* 8 Peters, 181.

Dec. 1872.]

PLANTERS' BANK V. UNION BANK.

503

Opinion of the court.

placed in a better position than that they would occupy if
the defendants had paid them the right quantity of Confederate notes when they were demanded? We think not.
Clearly if the notes had appreciated after they were received
by the defendants, and before the demand 'was made, the
plaintiffis would have been entitled to the benefit of the appreciation. This is because of the nature of the transaction,
and it would seem, for the same reason, the risk of depreciation was necessarily theirs.
This case differs very materially from MarineBank v. Fiaton Bank.* There, it is true, the collecting bank received
depreciated currency of the Illinois banks, and, it may be
assumed, with the assent of its correspondent. But there
were positive instructions to hold the avails of the collections subject to the order of the bank which had sent the
notes for collection; and the proceeds of the collections
were an authorized lawful currency. The two banks, therefore, stood to each other in the relation of debtor and creditor, and the collecting bank acknowledged that relation
immediately on the payment of the notes which had been
sent to it for collection. Not so here. The collections were
not made in money, and it was not the understanding of the
parties that money should be paid. We hold, therefore,
that the Planters' Bank ought not to be permitted to recover
more than the damages sustained by it in consequence of
the defendant's failure to deliver Confederate notes when
they were demanded, and those damages are measured by
the value of those notes in United States currency at the
time when the de Imand was made and when the notes should
have been delivered; and in so holding we do not intend to
deny or qualify the doctrine asserted in Marine Bank v. Fulton Bank, or in Thompson v. .Biggs.t It *follows that the
charge given to the jury was correct.
There is, then, nothing in the record complained of by
either party which would justify our ordering a new trial.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.
* 2 Wallace, 252.

t 5 WVallace, 663.

504

TWEED'S CASE.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

Mr. Justice BRADLEY, dissenting.
I dissent from the judgment of the court in this case.
The officer in command of the armies of the United States,
after the possession of New Orleans had been secured, required debtors in New Orleans of creditors in the enemy's
lines to pay such debts to the proper receiving officer of the
army. That the debts due from the citizens of a belligerent
state to the citizens of the state with whom the former is at
war may be confiscated is undoubted international law. If
such confiscation is, in fact, made by the military authorities,
and if the action of those authorities is assumed or confirmed
by the sovereign authority, the confiscation is perfect.
In this case the acts of the military authorities have been
substantially adopted and confirmed by the Federal government in passing a law exempting military officers from all
actions and suits for any acts done in their military capacity.
By this act, if any wrong was done, the government assumes it and holds itself responsible to the injured party, if
any illegality occurred.
One party must suffer in this case, either the debtor or
the creditor; and, as the debtor was compelled to pay the
debt to the military authorities it ought not to be compelled
to pay it over again to the creditor. Let the creditor apply
to the Federal government for relief, by which the acts of
the military authorities have been, in effect, assumed and
confirmed.
In my judgment, such a disposition of the case would
better accord with the principles of international law and
the mutual rights and relations of all the parties concerned.

TWEED'S CASE.
A person having entered, January 23d, 1866, into a contract with the government to purchase, as its agent, "cotton which formerly belonged to
the so-called ' Confederate States ' now in the possession of individuals
in the Red River country (concealed)," was not precluded by the fact
of such agency and during it from buying other cotton in that region

