WALKER V.

WHITEHEAD.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

that decision. She was accordingly sold, and the net proceeds paid into the treasury. Slawson insists that he is entitled to these proceeds under the act to provide for the
collection of abandoned property, even if there had been a
valid capture, but the proviso to the first section of this act
expressly excludes from its operation property which, like
this, has been used for the purpose of carrying on war
against the United States. Congress did not think proper
to become the trustee for the owner of a steamboat engaged,
with his consent, in the military service of the enemy at the
very time Charleston was taken. It will not do to say that
Slawson acted under compulsion after his purchase. In the
first place the Court of Claims do not find this to be the
case, and, besides, his conduct is inconsistent with any such
theory, for he purchased the steamer while under charter in
the Confederate service, and necessarily must have known
that he could not recover her from that service. It needs
no argument to show that the purchaser under such circumstances consents that the boat shall be continued in the same
business in which she had been engaged from the commencement of the rebellion. The claimant is, therefore, excluded
from the benefit of the Captured and Abandoned Property
Act, and as the Court of Claims has no jurisdiction to try a
case growing out of the appropriation of property by the
army or navy, it follows that its judgment must be
AFFIRMED.

WALKER V. WHITEHEAD.

1. The laws which exist at the time of the making a contract, and in the
place where it is made and to be performed, enter into and make part
of it. This embraces those laws alike which affect its validity, ccnstruction, discharge, and enforcement. The remedy or means of erforcing
a contract is a part of that "obligation " of a contract which the Constitution protects against being impaired by any law passed by a State.
2. Held, accordingly, when, on the 1st of January, 1870, suit was brought
on a promissory note given in March, 1864, payable in March, 1865, that

Dec. 1872.],

WALKER V. WHITEHEAD.
Case stated in the opinion.

a law passed in October, 1870, which enacted (by one section) %hatin
all suits pending on any contract made before June 1st, 1865, it should
not be lawful for the plaintiff to have a verdict unless he made it appear
that all taxes chargeable by law on the same had " been duly paid for
each year since the making of the same;" and enacted (by another section) that it should be a condition precedent to such recovery that "the
said debt has been regularly given in for taxes and the taxes paid," and
(by other sections) made other retrospective enaectments,-impaired the
obligation of a contract, and was accordingly unconstitutional.

1w error to the Supreme Court of the State of Georgia.
Mr. P. Phillips,for the plaintiff in error; no opposing counsel.
Mr. Justice SWAYNE stated the case, and delivered the
opinion of the court.
The case, as it appears in the record, is as follows: On
the 1st of January, 1870, the plaintiff in error instituted
this suit against the defendant in error upon a promissory
note, made by the latter to the former, dated March 28th,
1864, for $7219.47, payable on the 19th of March then next
ensuing. The defendant interposed two pleas:
1st. That after the maturity of the note he had tendered
payment in Confederate treasury notes.
2d. That he was a loser by the result of the late war
against the -United States of one hundred negroes worth
$50,000, and of Confederate securities of the value of $20,000;
that he was a citizen of the Confederate States who waged
and carried on that war, and that he pleads those losses as
an offset to the demand of the plaintiff to the amount of the
principal and interest of that demand.
When the case was called on the calendar the defendant
moved the court to dismiss it, because the plaintiff had not
filed an affidavit of the payment of the taxes upon the note
as required by the act of the legislature of Georgia of the
13th of October, 1870. The plaintiff objected upon several
grounds. The court overruled his objection, and dismissed
the case. The plaintiff thereupon removed it to the Supreme Court of the State. That court affirmed the judgment of the court below.

WALKER V.

\WHITEHEAD.

[Sup. Ct.

Case stated in the opinion.

The first and second sections of the act referred to are as
follows:
"SECTION 1. That in all suits pending, or hereafter brought,
in or before any court of the State, founded upon any debt or
contract or cause of action made or implied before the 1st June,
1865, or upon any other debt or contract in renewal thereof, it
shall not be lawful for the plaintiff to have a verdict or judgment
in his favor, unless he has made it clearly to appear before the
tribunal trying the same that all legal taxes chargeable by law
upon the same have been duly paid for each year since the making
or implying of said debt or contract.
"SECTION 2. In any suit now pending, or hereafter brought,
it shall be the duty of the plaintiff, within six months after the
passage of this act, if the suit be pending, and at the filing of
the writ, if the suit be hereafter brought, to file with the clerk
of the court of justice an affidavit, if the suit was founded on
any debt or contract as described in section one, that all legal
charges chargeable by law upon such debt or contract have been
duly paid, or the income thereon for each year since the making
of the same, and that he expects to prove the same upon the
trial; and, upon failure to file such affidavit as herein required,
said suit shall, on motion, be dismissed."
The fourth section declares it to be a condition precedent
to a recovery that "the said debt has been regularlygiven in
for taxes, and the taxes paid."
The fifth section provides, in respect of judgments already
rendered, that' no levy or sale shall be made unless an affidavit be made that all taxes "have been duly paid from the
time of making said contract to the time of attaching the
affidavit."
The sixth section provides that in all cases of indebtedness
of this class the defendant may offset "any losses he may
have suffered by, or in consequence of, the late war against
the United States," whether the said losses "be from the
destruction or depreciation of property."
The seventh section declares that these damages shall not
be considered as "too remote or speculative, if it appear that
they were fairly and legitimately produced, directly or indirectly, by said war or the results thereof."

Dec. 1872.]

8VALKER V. WHITEHEAD.
Opinion of the court.

The ninth section provides that these losses by the war
may be offset against judgments already rendered.
The fourteenth section provides that, as to such debts due
to widows and minors, they are to be settled "upon the
principles of equity, taking into consideration the relative loss of
property sustained by the plaintiff and defendant."
The fifteenth section provides that the provisions of the
fourteenth are not to apply where the defendant is in possession of the property, for the purchase of which the said
contract was entered into, with this proviso: that "the defendant may elect to give up the property in his possession
for which such contract was entered into, and such election
shall be the full discharge of such indebtedness."
The contract here in question is within the predicate of
this act. It was made more than six years before the act
was passed. The act was retrospective-denounced a penalty not before prescribed for the non-payment of taxesand, if such delinquency had existed for a single year, confiscated the debt by making any remedy to enforce payment
impossible. The denunciation and the penalty came together. There was no warning and there could be no escape.
The purpose of the act was plainly not to collect back taxes
-that was neither asked nor permitted as a means of purgation-but to bar the debt and discharge the delbtor.
The act is not an expostfacto law only because that phrase
in its legal sense is confined to crimes and their punishment.
The Constitution of the United States declares that no
State shall pass any "law impairing the obligation of contracts."
These propositions may be considered consequent axioms
in our jurisprudence:
The laws which exist at the time and place-of the making
of a contract, and where it is to be performed, enter into
and form a part of it. This embraces alike those which
affect its validity, construction, discharge, and enforcement;
Nfothing is more material to the obligation of a contract
than the means of its enforcement. The ideas of validity

318

RAILROAD CO. V. MANUFACTURING

Co.

[Sup.

Ct.

Syllabus.

and remedy are inseparable, and both are parts of the obligation which is guaranteed by the Constitution against impairment;
The obligation of a contract "is the law which binds the
parties to perform their agreement;"
Any impairment of the obligation of a contract-the degree of impairment is immaterial-is within the prohibition
of the Constitution;
The States may change the remedy, provided no substantial right secured by the contract is impaired. Whenever
such a result is produced by the act in question, to that extent it is void. The States are no more permitted to impair
the efficacy of a contract in this way than to attack its vitality
in any other manner. Against all assaults coming from that
quarter, whatever guise they may assume, the contract is
shielded by the Constitution. It must be left with the same
force and effect, including the substantial means of enforcement, which existed when it was made. The guarantee of
the Constitution gives it protection to that extent.*
The effect of these propositions upon the judgment before
us requires but a single remark. A clearer case of a law
impairing the obligation of a contract, within the meaning
of the Constitution, can hardly occur.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Georgia is REVERSED, and the cause will be remanded to that court with
directions to enter a judgment of reversal, and then to proceed
IN

RAILROAD

COMPANY V.

CONFORMITY TO THIS OPINION.

MANUFACTURING

COMPANY.

i. When goods are delivered to a common carrier to be transported over his
railroad to his depot in a place named, and there to be delivered to a
second line of conveyance for transportation further on, the commonlaw liability of common carriers remains on the first carrier until he has
*

Von Hoffman v. The City of Quincy, 4 Wallace, 535.

