644

ST. JOSEPH TOWNSHIP V. ROGERS.

[Sup. Ot.

Syllabus.

this fiction (for it is only a ficio juris) can be extended to
such a case as this. When it does apply it applies wherever
the ship may be, whether on the high seas or within the
limits of a foreign country. It would apply to a ship in
New York harbor as well as to a ship on the high seas. But
whether that rule can be applied at all, as between the different States of the Union, to vessels belonging to citizena
of the United States, which are properly vessels of the United
States, and not of particular States, need not be decided in
this case.

ST. JOSEPH TOWNSHIP v. ROGERS.
A statute of Illinois, by a twelfth section, authorized any township along
the route of a railroad named, to subscribe to its stock;
But enacted by a thirteenth, that no subscription should be made until notice had been given to the legal voters, to meet for the purpose of voting
on the matter. " Provided" that where elections had been already held
"and a majority of the legal voters of any township" were in favor of a
subscription, no further election should be necessary to be held.
A fourteenth section enacted that "if it shall appear that a majorityof all
the legal voters of such townships voting at such election, shall have voted
' For Subscription,' it shall be the duty of the supervisor to subscribe to.
the capital stock, &c., the amount so voted to be subscribed, and to receive from the company the proper certificates therefor."
A fifteenth section enacted that it should be " the duty of the clerk of any
township in which a vote should be given in favor of subscription,
within ten days thereafter, to transmit to the county clerk of the respective counties a transcript of the vote given and the amount so subscribed, and the rate of interest to be paid. Provided, that where elections may have been held as aforesaid, it shall be the duty of the town
clerks to file with the county clerks, &c., within ten days after the issuing of said bonds certificates of the votes of their towns, the amount of
stock voted to be subscribed, the amount of bonds issued, and the rate
of interest payable thereon."
Of a minority of the legal voters of St. Joseph Township voting before thq
act was passed, at an election called and held, a majority voted in favor
3f subscription, and the supervisor and clerk professing to act for tha
township, issued bonds to the amount voted; but no record of any kind
was ever kept of the election, nor was any record or transcript ever
transmitted to the county clerk.
After this an act was passed -eciting that "t a wnshi -; officers along the line

Deo. 1872.]

ST. JOSEPH

TOWNSHIP

V. ROGERS.

645

Statement of the case.
of the road had failed to keep a full and perfect recoid of elections called
and held, and township clerks had failed to file with the county clerk
certificates as required" by the above-quoted act, and enacting that where
such informalities and neglect may have occurred, and bonds have been
issued, to aid in the construction of said railroad, that no such neglect or
omission on the part of township officers shall in any way invalidate or
impair the collection of said bonds:
'On this case in favor of a bondfide holder for value of the bonds, held1. That even in the case of an election held priorto the passage of the firstmentioned act, a majority of the legal voters of the township voting at
an election, was sufficient to authorize a subscription, although all the
voters voting on both sides were together but a minority of all the legal
voters of the township.
72. That if this were not so, yet the second act 1entirely obviated all the
mistakes and irregularitieg in the prior proceedings."
-3. That, in addition, the fourteenth section of the original act made it the
duty of the supervisor who executed the bonds to determine the question whether an election was held, and whether a majority of the votes
cast were in favor of the subscription, and inasmuch as he passed upon
that question and subscribed for the stock and subsequently executed
and delivered the bonds, it was clearly too late to question their validity
where they were in the hands of an innocent holder.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Southern District of
Illinois.
Rogers brought assumpsit in the court below against St.
.roseph Township, Champagne County, Illinois, to recover
interest on certain railroad bonds alleged to have been issued
1)y said township. The township set up that the bonds were
,?ot properly issued, and void.
The case was thus:
On the 28th of February, 1867, the legislature of Illinois
-passed "an act to amend the articles of association of the Danville, Urbana, Bloomington, and Pekin Railroad Company,
.and to extend the powers of and confer a charter upon the
-ame." In its material parts the act read thus:
"SECTION 12. To further aid in the construction of said road
by said company, any incorporated town or townships, along
the route of said road, may subscribe to the capital stock of
said company in any sum not exceeding $250,000.
"SE cION 13. -No such subscription shall be made until the
question has been submitted to the legal voters of such incorpo-

646

ST. JOSEPH TOWNSHIP V. ROGERS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
ration, town or township in which the subscription is proposed
to be made. And the clerk of each of said towns or townships
is hereby required, upon the presentation of a petition signed
by at least ten citizens who are legal voters, to post up notices,
&c., notifying the legal voters of such town or township to
meet at the usual place of holding elections in such town or
township, &c., for the purpose of voting for or against such subscription, Provided,that where elections may have alreadybeen held,
and a majority of the legal voters of any township or incorporated
town were in favor of a subscription to said railroad,then, and in
that case, no other election need be had; and the amount so voted for
shall be subscribed as in this act provided; and such elections are
hereby declared to be legal and valid, as though this act had been in
force at the time thereof; and all the provisionshereof had been complied with.
" SECTION 14. If it shall appear that a majority of all the legal
voters of such towns or townships, voting at such election, have
voted ' For Subscription,' it shall be the duty of the president
of the board of trustees, or other chief executive officer, if in
incorporated towns, and of the supervisor in townships, to subscribe to the capital stock of said railroad company, in the name
of such town or township, the amount so voted to be subscribed,
and to receive from said company the proper certificates therefor. He shall also execute to said cempany, in the name of such
town or townships, bonds bearing interest at ten per cent. per
annum, which bonds shall run for a term of not more than
twenty years, and the interest on the same shall be made payable annually; and which bonds shall be signed by such president, executive officer, or supervisor, and be attested by the
clerk of the town or township in whose name the bonds are
issued, and it shall be his duty to make out a record of the issuing of said bonds. Said bonds shall be delivered to the president or secretary of said company, for the use of said company.
And when any citey or county shall hereafter vote to make subscription, as aforesaid, the chairman of the board of supervisors
of such county and the mayor of such city shall be required to
subscribe to the capital stock of said company the amount so
voted.
"SEcTIoN 15. It shall be the duty of the clerk of any such
town or township in which a vote shall be given in favor of sub.
scription, within ten days thereafter, to transmit to the county

Dec. 1872.]

ST. JOSEPH TowNsHIP v. ROGERS.

647

Statement of the case.

clerk of their respective counties a transcript or statement of
the vote given, and the amount so voted to be subscribed, and
the rate of interest to be paid, Provided that where elections
may have been held as aforesaid, it shall be the duty of the town
clerks to file with the county clerks of their respective counties,
within ten .days after the issuing of said bonds, certificates of
the votes of their towns, the amount of stock voted to be subscribed, the amount of bonds issued, and the rate of interest
payable thereon."
On the 25th of February, 1869, the same legislature passed
an act entitled "An act to amend articles of association of

the Danville, Urbana, Bloomington, and Pekin Railroad
Company, and to extend the powers of and confer a charter
upon the same."

It was thus:

"WHEREAS, certain township officers along the line and through
which the Danville, Urbana, Bloomington, and Pekin Railroad
passes, have failed to keep a full and perfect record of elections
called and held, and township clerks have failed to file with the
county clerk, certificates, as required by sectionfifteen of the amended
articlesof association of said railroad,therefore,
"SECTION 1. Be it enacted, where such informalities and neglect
may have occurred, and bonds have been issued to aid in the
construction of said railroad, that no such neglect or omission on
the part of township officers, shall in any way invalidate or impair the collection of said bonds, both principal and interest, as
they may respectively fall due," &c.
So far as to the legislation in the case.
On the trial the plaintiff gave in evidence different bonds,
dated October 1st, 1867, issued by the supervisor and clerk of
the township, purporting that the township acknowledged
itself to owe so much money, which it promised to pay the
bearer, with interest, at ten per centum per annum, yearly
on the 1st of October.
The bond recited that it was issued by virtue of a law of
the State of Illinois, entitled:
"'An act to amend the articles of association of the Danville,
Urbana, Bloomington, and Pekin Railroad Company, and to
extend the powers of and confer a charter upon the same,' ap.

ST. JOSEPH TOWNSHIP V. ROGERS.

[SUp. Ct.

Argument for the township.

proved February 2fth, 1867, and in accordance with the vote of

the electors of said township at the special election held August
fourteenth, 1866, in accordance with said act."

On the other hand evidence was given by the township,
tending to show that the election held for the purpose of
deciding whether the township would subscribe stock, was
held on the fourth of August, 1866, and, of course, before
the passage of the act of February 28th, 1867, incorporating
the company, and that at the time of the election there were
three hundred legal voters in St. Joseph Township, of whom
only seventy-five persons voted at the election; a majority
of the seventy-five only voting in favor of the issuing of the
bonds; that no poll-book or record of any kind was made or
kept of the election, and that no record or transcript of the
proceedings at it was ever transmitted to the county clerk.
The plaintiff in reply relied on the recitals in his bonds,
on the fourteenth section of the act, and on the amendatory
or curative act.
The question of course was, whether under the two acts
above quoted, and the facts of the case, the bonds were valid.
The court gave these instructions:
"'1st. The election held in August, 1866, as declared in the
evidence, was validated by the act of February 28th, 1867, so as
to authorize the defendant to subscribe for stock in the Danville,
Urbana,Bloomington, and Pekin Railroad, and to issue the bonds
in question; and when the stock was subscribed and the bonds
issued, the bonds are binding on the defendant in the hands of
a bond fide holder.
"2d. The recitals in the bond estop the defendant from denying the fact of a valid election as against a bond fide holder of
the bonds or coupons attached thereto."
Verdict and judgment having gone accordingly, the township brought the case here.
Messrs. William Lawrence and C. -B. Smith, for the plaintiff
in error:
Negotiable bonds issued by a municipal corporation,

Dec. 1872.]

ST. JOSEPH Tow sHIP v. ROGERS.

649

Argument for the township.

without any authority of law, are void even in the hands of
an innocent purchaser.* - This all will admit.
2. A statute which authorizes township officers to issue
bonds only wheu an election "may have already been held,
and a majority of the legal voters of the township were in favor"
thereof, does not authorize the issue of bonds when less than
a "majority of the legal voters" were in favor thereof, although there were "a majority of all the legal voters voting
at such election."
If bonds are issued in such case they are issued without
authority of law, and are void even in the hands of a bond
fide holder.
The act of February 28th, 1867, confers power on incorporated townships in two classes of cases.
In one, the power is given to be exercised after the question "has been submitted to the legal voters of the township," and when "it shall appear that a majority of all the
legal voters of such township, voting at such election," have
voted therefor, &c.
In the other class-the class provided for by the provisono future vote is to be had, but townships are authorized to
issue bonds only in cases "where elections may have already
been held (without authority, of law before the statute was

passed), and (only in those cases when) a majority of the legal
voters of any township were in favor of a subscription." This
class is sui generis.
The bonds now in controversy recite that they were issued
under this statute, "and in accordance with the vote of the
electors of said township, at the special election, held August 14th, 1866, in accordance with said act." This, of
course, was prior to the date of the act, and the bonds now in
controversy belong to the second class.
The charge held that a majority of those voting, though those
voting were a minority of the legal voters of the township,
was sufficient if they voted in favor of bonds to authorize
their issue.
* ]Iarsh v. Fulton County, 10 Wallace, 676.

650

ST. JOSEPH TOWNSuIP v. ROGERS.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the township.

This we deny, and insist that a majority of all the legal voters
of the township was requisite, because:
1. The language of the proviso to section fourteen, of the
act of February 28th, 1867, upon every principle of interpretation clearly so requires. There is no room, therefore,
for construction.
2. There is a manifest reason why the legislature would, in
this class of cases, require a majority of all the voters, since
the vote, when had, was unauthorized, and voters had no
motive to attend and indicate their wishes.
3. The language employed as to elections to be held after
the statute was passed, when contrasted with that as to past
elections, clearly indicates that the legislature intended in one
class, as the statute says, to require only "a majority of all
the legal voters voting at such election," while in the other,
as the statute declares, "a majority of (all) the legal voters
of the township" is requisite.
Nor can the opening language of the fourteenth section
apply to the case provided for by the proviso to the thirteenth, and cure an omission to comply with its directions in
the case for which it provides. It refers, of course, to that
part of the section prior to the proviso. Otherwise we have
two contradictory enactments for the same case.
4. Where a legislative act confers authority on a municipal corporation to issue negotiable bonds only in cases where
a past fact exists, a false recital of the existence of such fact
in bonds issued neither estops the corporation from denying
it, nor raises a presumption of its existence, even in favor of
an innocent holder of such bonds, nor excuses him from the
duty of ascertaining if such fact exists.
The false recital of such fact cannot make applicable and
operative a legislative act otherwise inapplicable and inoperative. The charge to the jury as made in the court below
goes much further than to assume that if a majority of those
voting at an election voted in favor of bonds, then bonds
issued would be vaiid in the hands of an innocent holder.
The charge was given on evidence tending to show that no
vote was taken on the question of issuing the bonds now in

Dec. 1872.]

ST. JOSEPH TOWNSHIP V. ROGERS.
Argument for the township.

controversy, and certainly none on the 14th of August, 1866,
the date recited in the bonds. Yet the charge was that
"The recitals in the bonds estop the defendant from denying the fact of a valid election as against a bond fide holder
of the bonds or coupons attached thereto." The effect of
this is that if a minority vote of all the electors of the township, or if no vote at all was had, bonds issued reciting a vote
are valid in the hands of a bond fide holder. But this, as
has been shown, cannot be so, if the want of a vote, or the
want of the requisite majority vote, goes to the question of
power to issue the bonds, as it does in this case.
There is not much difficulty in distinguishing between
negotiable securities executed ultra vires, and those issued
within the power of municipal corporations.
The cases on this subject fall within two classes:
One class is where a power is given to a corporation in
prosend, but the power is to be exercised "on certain conditions," as it is said in Knox County v. Aspinwall;* or as
it is elsewhere expressed,t where there are "qualifications
coupled with the grant of power." There is a large class of
such cases, but they relate to the question of the regularity of
the exercise of power, and of votes taken, &c. Here it has
been held by some courts, and denied by others, that when
bonds are issued reciting the proper vote, or even without
the recital, but when a vote has in fact been had, that bonM
fide purchasers of bonds have a right to presume that the
corporation has regularly complied with "the conditions,"
because this is a fact within their peculiar knowledge, and
on grounds of justice the corporation is estopped from denying it, and upon the principle that they may not take advantage of their own wrong. But in this class "the conditions" to be performed are all subsequent to the grant of
power, mere qualifications coupled with the grant, and none
of them hold that where the power is by law made dependent on a vote of electors, and no vote, or only a minority
vote, is had, that a recital in the bonds can supply the want
of power to issue them.
* 21 Howard, 546.

t Gelpeke v. Dubuoue, I Wallace, 203.

652

ST. JOSEPH TOWNSHIP V. ROGERS.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the township.

But there is another class of cases where there is a total
absence of any power to issue bonds by a municipal corporation. One of these is where a power is given only when a
past fact happens to exist, as the foundation of the power. If
there be no foundation on which the power can rest, it cannot exist. Here there are no "certain conditions" which
accompany the power to be performed. Here there are no
"qualifications coupled with the grant of power," for no
power has ever been granted, and none ever existed under
"any circumstances,"* because as the power is only to be
given in case a certain past fact exist, the non-existence of
the fact carries with it the non-existence of the power.
Now, in this class of cases, the fact on which the power
depends is not "peculiarly within the knowledge of the corporation," and there can be no estoppel, and in such case
there is no presumption that officers have regularly performed
any duty, because it is not a question of official duty to be
performed, but a question of the existence of a past fact,

which, in the case now under consideration, was a voluntary, unofficial, unauthorized act. Such facts can be as
readily ascertained by bondholders as by corporate authori-

ties. There is no question in such case either as to the directory character of the provisions of the statute, for the
essential fact on which the power depends for its existence
is past, not in futuro, and is vital to the power itself.

The case now under consideration falls within this class.
In Gould v. Town of Slerling,t it was held that where a
town had issued negotiable bonds, which could only be
issued when the written assent of two-thirds of the resident

persons taxed in the town had been obtained and filed in the
county clerk's office, the bonds issued without such assent
were invalid; and that the purchaser of them could not rely
upon the recital in the bonds that such assent had been obtained: and Cooley in his Constitutional Limitations, in commenting on this and other cases, says:
"The doctrine in the case of Gould v. Town of Sterling appears
* I WTallace, 175.

t 23 New York, 458.

Dec. 1872.]

ST. JOSEPH TOWNSHIP V. ROGERS.

653

Argument for the township.

to us to be sound, and that wherever a want of power exists a
purchaser of the securities is chargeable with notice of it, ifthe
defect is disclosed by the corporate records, or as in that case by
other records where the power is required to be shown."
5. A statute which attempts to create a municipal debt
where none existed before, as by attempting to validate void
bonds, is unconstitutional and void.
This principle, and the application of it to this case, are
perhaps sufficiently shown in what has already been said.
The curative act of February 25th, 1869, in fact cannot be
construed as applicable to the bonds now in controversy.
Its preamble relates more especially to the omission to
"keep a full and perfect record of electors," and "to file
with the county clerk certificates as required by section
fifteen of" the act of February 28th, 1867. It enacts that
if such informality and neglect may have occurred they shall
not invalidate bonds. But if it can apply to the proviso of
section fifteen of the act of 1867, and the duty of town clerks
to file certificates of votes had prior to the act, so far as it
attempts to give validity to what was invalid before, it is an
attempt by legislative act to create a debt.*
6. Bonds issued by municipal authorities reciting a vote
on the 14th of August, cannot be sustained on a vote taken
,on the 4th of August, when the law under which they are
issued requires a vote of electors to authorize their issue.
There is evidence tending to show that a vote was had
August 4th, but no evidence tending to show there was
any vote August 14th. There was no' vote August 14th.
Now if the vote taken August 4th authorized any bonds to
be issued, it is fair to presume they were issued. On that
hypothesis the power existed, and could be used to issue
bonds reciting a vote of that date. Nothing in the record
shows bonds were not so issued.
7. The fifth section of the ninth article of the constitution
of Illinois, of 1848, provides that:
* Marshall v. Silliman, Supreme Court of Illinois, January, 1872; see
McDaniel z. Correll, 19 Illinois, 228; 11 Id. 54; 14 Id. 223; 15 Id. 125-481;
85 Id. 868 ; 37 Id. 88; 48 Id. 212; Cooley's Constitutional Limitations, 882.

654

ST. JosEPH TOWNSHIP v. ROGERS.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the township.

"The corporate authorities of counties, townships, school districts, cities, towns, and villages, may be vested with power to
assess and collect taxes for corporate purposes; such tax to be
uniform in respect to persons and property within the jurisdiction of the body imposing the same."
In Howard v. St. Clair and M. L. and D. Company, it was
held that this section
"Was to be construed as a limitation upon the power of the
legislature to delegate the right of corporate or local taxation
to any other than the corporate or local authorities, and that by
the phrase ' corporate authorities' must be understood those municipal officers who are either directly elected by the people to be
taxed, or appointed in some mode to which they have giver
their assent."*

By the township organization law, in force in St. Joseph
Township, the "corporate authorities," or municipal officers
"elected by the people," were, when the vote was had and
bonds issued in this case, "one supervisor, one town clerk,
one assessor, one collector," &c.t
The township cannot be made liable on bonds issued only
by the supervisor and clerk, in favor of a railroad company
in payment of a subscription'by such officers, made in the
name of the township, to the capital stock of such company,
without the consent of a majority of the qualified voters of
such township, given in favor of such subscription and issue
of bonds, after the enactment of a law authorizing them.
8. It is error for the judge in charging a jury in the trial
of an issue of fact, to assume the existence of a disputed
material fact in issue.
The record shows that one of the disputed questions of
fact on the trial in the Circuit Court was whether an election
was held in August, 1866, yet the judge charged the jury
that "the election held in August, 1866, as detailed in the
evidence, was validated by the act of February 28th, 1867,"
&c. This charge assumes a controverted fact, and instructs
-Peopleex rel. v. Mayor, &c., 51 Illinois, 30.
t Act of February 20th, 1861, Gross's Laws, 744.

Dec. 1872.]

ST. JOSEPH TOWNSHIP V. ROGERS.
Argument for the bondholder.

the jury accordingly. The objection now taken, though
technical, is good, and one on which courts have reversed
judgments.*
Mr. H C. Burchard,contra:
The point mainly relied on by the counsel of the plaintiff
in error is, that the majority of all the legal voters of the
township did not vote in favor of the election. But independently of the impossibility of the supervisors knowing
otherwise than by-the election who all the legal voters were,
it is to be observed,
I. That the counsel, in point of fact, would completely
change the order of the provision as found in the act. They
transfer the proviso of the thirteenth section from that section where it occurs, and apply it to the fourteenth section
following, as though it read,
"The supeivisor shall subscribe if it shall appear that a majority of the legal voters voting at such election have voted for
subscription, provided that where elections may have already
been held and a majority of the legal voters of any township
were in favor of a subscription to said railroad, then and in that
case no other election need be had."
By what authority do counsel thus treat an act of the
legislature ?
II. That the phrase "a majority of the legal voters of any
township," as used in the thirteenth section, is no broader
than the phrase "a majority of all the legal voters of such
townships voting at such election," used in section fourteen, but the latter expression only states more fully what
the former implies. This appears in various ways.
1st. It is apparent from the provisions of section fifteen
of the act which required the town clerks to file with the
county clerks "certificates of the votes of their towns." If
a majority of all the voters residing in the townships were
necessary, whether voting or not, the certificate of votes
* Tracy v. Swartwout, 10 Peters, 80; United States v,. Laub, 12 Id. 1;
Games v. Stiles, 14 Id. 322.

656

ST. JOSEPH TOWNSHIP v. ROGERS.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the bondholder.

cast at the election would be valueless without some provision for ascertaining the number of actual legal voters in
the township.
2d. Phraseology, almost identical with that of this statute,
occurs in section five, article seven, of the constitution of
the State of Illinois, which forbids the removal of a county
seat "until the point to which it is proposed to be removed
shall be fixed by law, and a majority of the voters of the county
shall have voted in favor of its removal to such point;" yet
the Supreme Court of Illinois, in construing this section and
the phrase "voters of the county," held
"That the voters of the county referred to were the voters who
should vote at the election authorized by it. We hold, therefore,
that a majority of the legal votes cast at this election is sufficient
to determine the question of a relocation of the county seat."*
Similar language is used in section six of the same article
of the constitution of the State of Illinois, which, in People v.
Garner,t received a similar construction from the Supreme
Court of the State. The same construction has been given
by the Supreme Court of Tennessee.
"A majority of the voters of the county," says the court
in -Louisville and Nashville -Railroadv. County Court of Davidson County,J "means a majority of those who actually vote."
It equally prevails in Missouri. In State v. Mayor of St. Joseph,§ an act of the legislature required a proposition to create
a city debt to be submitted "to a vote of the qualified voters
of said city," and two-thirds of such qualified voters to sanction the same, and an election had been held at which three
hundred and thirty-six votes were for and fifty-eight against
the proposition; but the mayor declined to sign the bond,
because he was in doubt whether the matter was to be determined by two-thirds of all the votes polled at the special
election called to vote on the question, or by two-thirds of
all the voters resident in the city absolutely, whether vofing
v. Warfield, 20 Illinois, 159.
*People
t 47 Illinois, 246; and see People v. Wiant, 48 Id. 263.
37 Missouri, 270.
1 1 Sneed, 637.

Dec. 1872.]

ST. JosEPH TOWNSHIP v. ROGERS.
Argument for the bondholder.

or not. The court ordered a peremptory mandamus, and it
the opinion said:
"We think it was sufficient that two-thirds of all the qualified
voters who voted at the special election authorized for the express purpose of determining that question on public notice
duly given, voted in favor of the proposition. This was the
mode provided by law for ascertaining the sense of the qualified
voters of the city upon that question. There would appear to
be no other practicable way in which the matter could be determined."
These decisions, and none contrary can be found, over
throw the main defence interposed to the collection of thAt
bonds.
EE. The fact as to whether an election had been held, an I
a majority of the voters were in favor of subscription, was
by the fourteenth section to be passed upon and decided by
the supervisor.
"If it shall'appear," says that section. Appear to whom?
Evidently to the officer or officers upon whom the statute
imposed the duty of subscribing for the stock and executing
the bonds. If it appeared to the supervisor of the township
that an election had been held, and a majority of the legal
voters were in favor of subscription to the railroad, then he
had to act on behalf of the town. Some one had to decide
when it had become his duty, and no one else-no other
officer-was authorized to determine this for him. The supervisor not being authorized or required to execute the
bonds until it should "appear" that a majority had voted for
subscription, it was proper that he should find and recite in
the bond the fact that must appear to him before he could
legally act. Such finding and recital on the bond of his
conclusion would conclude the township for which he was
authorized to act, as well as himself, as to whether the required majority had voted.
In Commissioners v. Nichols,* it is said:
"A statute, in providing that county bonds should not be de* 14 Ohio (N. S.), 260.
VOL. XVi.

42

-

ST. JOSEPH TowNsHIP V. ROGERS.

[Sup. Ot

Argument for the bondholder.

livered by the commissioners until a sufficient sum had been
provided by stock subscriptions, or otherwise, to complete a
specified railroad, and imposing upon them the duty of delivering the bonds, when said provision has been made, without indicating any person or tribunal to determine that fact, necessarily delegates that power to the commissioners, and, if delivered
improvidently, the bonds will not be invalidated."
I 7r . The act of February 28th, 1867, validated the election and cured any irregularities in holding it.
V. The issue of township bonds could be authorized by the
legislature without the vote of the electors of the township.
I [This point was largely examined on the constitution and
laws of Illinois.]
VI. The plaintiff in error is estopped from attempting to
impeach the validity of the bonds, not only by the circumstances under which they were issued, and the action of the
officers and citizens of the township, but by the recitals in
the bonds.
The second instruction does not assert that the plaintiff in
error is estopped from showing that no election was held,
but from denying the fact of a valid election. In the cases
where bonds have been held by this or other courts void, an
election being required by the statute authorizing their issue,
no election was held, or the election was as to issuing bonds
to a different corporationfrom the one to which they were issued,
as in Marsh v. Fulton County, which was no election, or where
the power to issue the bonds was denied or prohibited, and,
therefore, any election illegal. The instruction presents the
proposition that the recitals in the bond protect the bondfide
bolder for value, against irregularities or erroneous conclusions of the officers in regard to the election held, which
might impeach the bonds in the hands of parties, with
notice. Whether the word "valid" intends this qualification or not, the authorities fully sustain the instruction.*
* Knox v. Aspinwall, 21 Howard, 545; Moran v. Miami County, 2 Black,
722; Mercer County v. Hacket, 1 Wallace, 83; Gelpcke v. City of Dubuque,
1b. 175; Van Hostrup v. Madison City, Ib. 291; Meyer v. Muscatine, lb.
884; Supervisors v. Schenck, 5 Id. 772; Mayor v. Lord, 9 Id. 414.

Dec. 1872.]

ST. JOSEPH

TOWNSHIP V. ROGERS.

659

Restatement of the case in the opinion.

VII. The objection that the election was held on the 4th,
instead of the 14th, as recited in the bond, seems sufficiently
answered by referring to the law. It was immaterial on
what day the election was held, and it was not necessary to
state it in the bond. It is one of the facts which the.recital
should make conclusive.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Bonds, payable to bearer, issued by a municipal corporation to aid in the construction of a railroad, if issued in pursuance of a power conferred by the legislature, are valid
commercial instruments; but if issued by such a coiporation
which possessed no power from the legislature to grant such
aid, they are invalid, even in the hands of innocent holders.
Such a power is frequently conferred to be exercised in a
special manner, or subject to certain regulations, conditions,
or qualifications, but if it appears that the bonds issued show
by their recitals that the power was exercised in the manner
required by the legislature, and that the bonds were issued
in conformity with those regulations and pursuant to those
conditions and qualifications, proof that any, or all, of those
recitals are incorrect will not constitute a defence to the corporation in a suit on the bonds or coupons, if it appears that
it was the sole province of the municipal officers who executed the bonds to decide whether or not there had been an
antecedent compliance with the regulation, condition, or
qualification which it is alleged was not fulfilled.
On the 28th of February, 1867, the legislature amended
the articles of association of the Danville, Urbana, Bloomington and Pekin-Railroad Company, and enacted that any
incorporated town or township, in counties acting under the
township organization law, along the route of said railroad,
may subscribe to the capital stock of said company in any
sum not exceeding $250,000.* No such subscription, however, it was enacted shall be made until the question has
been submitted to the legal voters of such town or township
* 2 Private Laws (1867), 761.

ST. JosEPH TOWNSHIP V. ROGERS.

[Sup. Ct.

Restatement of the case in the opinion.

in which the subscription is proposed to be made., Regulations are also enacted for taking the sense of the legal voters&
upon such a proposition, which provide that the clerk of the
town or township, upon the presentation to him of a petition
stating the amount proposed to be subscribed, signed by at
least teh citizens who are legal voters and taxpayers -therein,.
shall post up notices in at least three public places in the
municipality, not less than thirty days before the day of
holding such election, notifying the legal voters thereof to
meet at the usual place of holding elections, or some other
convenient place named in the notice, for the purpose of
voting for or against such subscription. Prior to the passage of that act, however, an election was held in that town-

ship to determine whether the municipality would subscribe$25,000 to the capital stock of that railroad company, and
the proofs show that a majority of all the legal voters of thetownship voting at the election voted for the subscriptionsixty-two votes being cast in favor of the subscription and
seventeen against the proposition. Pursuant to the vote at
that election the supervisor of the township subscribed, ia
the name of the municipality, $25,000 to the capital stock
of that railroad company, and executed, in the name of thetownship, the bonds held by the plaintiff; bearing interest
at ten per cent. per annum, payable in ten years from date,
which bonds were signed by the party issuing the same as,
such supervisor, and were attested by the clerk of the township
Objection is made to the preliminary proceedings becausethe election approving the subscription was held before the
act was passed giving such authority to such municipalities,
but two answers are made to that objection, either of which

is decisive:
1. By the act conferring that authority it is provided that
where elections may have already been held, and a majority
of the legal voters of the township were in favor of a subscription to said railroad, then and in that case no other
election need be had, and the amount so voted for shall be

.Dec. 1872.]

ST. JOSEPH TOWNSHIP V. ROGERS.

661

Restatement of the case in the opinion.

subscribed as in the act is provided; and the provision is
that such elections are legal and valid as if the act had been
in force at the time thereof, and that all the provisions had
been fulfilled.*
2. Because the legislature passed a subsequent act declaring sucli subscriptions legal and obligatory. Some of the
township officers, it seems, failed to keep a full and perfect
record of elections called and held to authorize such sub-scriptions, and that the clerks of the townships failed in
-some instances to file the necessary certificate with the
,county clerk, as required by the fifteenth section of the
prioir act. Omissions and defects of the kind becoming
known, the legislature, on the 25th of February, 1869, enacted that where such informalities and neglect may have
-occurred and bonds have been issued, or may hereafter be
issued, to aid in the construction of said railroad, that no
such neglect or omission shall in any way invalidate or impair the collection of said bonds, principal or interest, as
they may respectively fall due, and that all assessments that
are now made for the payment of the principal or interest
rce
hereby legalized, and the township collectors and county
treasurers are hereby authorized and empowered to enforce
ihe collection and payment of said tax as is now provided
•by law for the collection of all other taxes.
Bonds to the amount of the subscription were accordingly
issued, bearing date October 1st, 1867, signed by the supervisor and countersigned by the clerk, and each bond contains the recital that it is issued under and by virtue of the
aforesaid law of the State, entitled an act to amend the articles of association of the said railroad company, and to extend the powers of and confer a charter upon the same, and
in accordance with the vote of the electors of said township
at the special election held August 14th, 1866, pursuant to
said act, and pledges the faith of the township for the payment of the said principal sum and interest as stipulated in
the instrument.
*

2 Private Laws (1867), 762.

662

ST. JOSEPH TOWNSHIP v. ROGERS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Evidence was introduced by the defendants showing that
there is no record of the supposed election, when it is alleged
that the question of the proposed subscription was submitted
to the legal voters of the township, and that no such certificate as that required by the act conferring the authority to
subscribe for the stock of the said company is on file in the
office of the county clerk, but the plaintiff proved that the
alleged meeting was notified, called, and held, and that
sixty-two votes were given in favor of the subscription and
seventeen against it, as announced at the election.
Two instructions were given by the court to the jury, to
which the defendants excepted: (1.) That the election held
as described in the evidence was validated by the act of the
28th of February, 1867, so as to authorize the defendants to
subscribe for the stock of the railroad company and to issue
the bonds in question, and that the bonds having been issued
for the stock subscribed, are binding on the defendants in
the hands of a bondfide holder. (2.) That the recitals in the
bonds estop the defendants from denying the fact of a valid
election as against a bondfide holder of the bonds or coupons
thereto annexed.
Under the instructions of the court the jury returned a
verdict for the plaintiff, and the court rendered judgment
on the verdict.
Repeated decisions of the State courts have established
the rule that the legislature has the constitutional right to
authorize municipal corporations to subscribe for the stock
of a railroad company, and to issue their bonds to aid in the
construction of such an intended improvement; that the
supervisors of the municipality have the power, in case such
a subscription is authorized, to subscribe for the stock of the
railroad company, and to call an election to ascertain the
will of the legal voters in that behalf.* Such corporations
are created by the legislature and they derive all their powers
* Prettyman v. Supervisors, 19 Illinois, 406; Robertson v. Rockford, 21
Id. 451; Perkins v. Lewis, 24 Id. 208; Johnson v. Stark, Ib. 85; Keithsburg v. Frick, 34 Id. 405; Commissioners v. Nichols, 14 Ohio State, 260.

Dec. 1872.]

ST. JOSEPH TOWNSHIP

V. ROGERS.

663

Opinion of the court.

from the source of their creation, and those powers are at
all times subject to the control of the legislature. Every
-where the construction and repair of highways within theii
limits are regarded as among the usual purposes of their
creation, and the expenses of accomplishing those objects
are among their usual and ordinary burdens. Railways
also, as matter of usage founded on experience, are so far
considered by the courts as in the nature of improved highways and as indispensable to the public interest and the
successful pursuit, even of local business, that the legislature
may authorize the towns and counties of a State through
which the railway passes, to borrow money, issue their
bonds, subscribe for the stock of the company, or purchase
the same to aid the railway company in constructing or completing such a public improvement. Legislation of the kind
may be prohibited by a State constitution, but it is settled
everywhere that such an act is not in contravention of any
implied limitation of the power of a State to pass laws to
promote the usual purposes of municipal corporations.*
Argument to show that defective subscriptions of the kind
may in all cases be ratified where the legislature could have
originally conferred the power is certainly unnecessary, as
the question is authoritatively settled by the decisions of the
Supreme Court of the State, and of this court, in repeated
instan.ces.Suppose that is so, still it is insisted by the defendants
that the election held to ascertain whether the legal voters
of the township would authorize the subscription, was irregular and a nullity: (1.) Because a majority of the legal voters
of the township did not vote at the meeting notified and
held for that purpose. (2.) Because the meeting was notified and held before the act was passed providing for such
an election.
* Rogers v. Burlington, 3 Wallace, 663; Freeport v. Supervisors, 41 Illinois, 495; Butler v. Dunham, 27 Id. 474.
t Cowgill v. Long, 15 Illinois, 203; Keithsburg v. Frick, 84 Id. 405;
Thomson v. Lee County, 3 Wallace, 327; City v. Lamson, 9 Id. 477; Wat.
son v. M-rcer, 8 Peters, 111; Bissell v. Jeffersonville, 24 Howard, 295.

664

ST. JOSEPH TOWNSHIP V. ROGERS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Responsive to the first objection, it is insisted by the plainfiff that the legislature in adopting the phrase "a majority
,of the legal voters of the township," intended to require
,only a majority of the legal voters of the township voting at
the election notified and held to ascertain whether the
proposition to subscribe for the stock of the company should
be adopted or rejected, and the court is of the opinion that
such is the true meaning of the enactment, as the question
would necessarily be determined by a count of ballots.*
Tested by these considerations, it is clear that an election
was held within the meaning of the act of the legislature,
and that a majority of the legal voters of the township did
vote in favor of the subscription, as the proofs show that a
meeting was called and held, and that the majority of the
legal voters voting at the meeting, voted in favor of the
proposition.
Sufficient has already been remarked to show that the
second objection cannot avail the defendants, as the same act
provided to the effect that if the election had already been
held and a majority of the legal voters had voted in favor of
-thesubscription, no other election need be held, and that the
amount so voted shall be subscribed, as provided in the same
act. Mistakes and irregularities are of frequent occurrence
in municipal elections, and the State legislatures have often
'had occasion to pass laws to obviate such difficulties. Such
laws, when they do not impair any contract or injuriously
affect the rights of third persons, are never regarded as objectionable, and certainly are within the competency of the
legislative authority.
Even if the legislature may by a subsequent act validate
-and confirm previous acts of a municipal corporation otherwise invalid, still the defendants insist that a prior legislative
act will not have any such effect, which cannot be admitted,
Peoplev. SWarfield, 20 Illinois, 163; Peoplev Garner, 47 Id. 246; People
,. Wiant, 48 Id. 263; Railroad v. Davidson County, 1 Sneed, 692; Angell
& Ames on Corporations, 9th ed.,
499-500; Bridgeport v. Railroad, 16
C0onnectizut, 475; Talbot v. Dent, 9 B. Monro, 526; State v. The Mayor, 37
WJiasouri, 272.

Dec. 1872.]

ST. JOSEPH Tow-NsHIP v. IRoGERS.

665

Opinion of the court.

as it would be competent for the legislature to authorize a
municipal corporation to make such a subscription without
requiring any such preliminary election.
Concede, bowdver, that a prior act is insufficient to dispense with the preliminary election,, still the concession
cannot benefit the defendants, as it is clear that the subsequent act entirely obviates all the mistakes and irregularities
in the prior proceedings, as it provides that where such informalities and neglect may have occurred, and bonds have
been issued, or may hereafter be issued, to aid in the construction of said railroad, no such neglect or omission on the
part of township officers shall in any way invalidate or impair the collection of said bonds, principal or interest, as
they may respectively fall due.* Authorities to support that
proposition are hardly necessary, but another answer may
be given to the objection quite as satisfactory as either of the
others, which is that the fourteenth section of the act makes
it the duty of the supervisor who executed the bonds to determine the question whether an election was held, and
whether a majority of the votes cast were in favor of the
subscription, and inasmuch as he passed upon that question and subscribed for the stock and subsequently executed
and delivered the bonds, it is clearly too late to question
their validity where it appears, as in this case, that they are
in the hands of an innocent holder.t
Knox County v. Aspinwall.. Non-compliance with one of
the conditions was clearly shown in that case, as the notices
of the election as required by law had not been given in any
form, but the decision was that the question as to the sufficiency of the notice and the ascertainment of the fact whether the majority of the votes had been cast in favor of the
subscription was necessarily left to the inquiry and judgment
of the county board, as no other tribunal was provided for
the purpose, and the court held that after the authority had
been executed, the bonds issued, and they had passed into
* 3 Private Laws (1869), 274; Thomson v. Lee County, 3 Wallace, 327;

Gelpeke v. Dubuque, 1 Id. 220; People v. Mitchell, 35 New York, 551.
$ 21 Howard, 514.
t Private Laws (1867), 762.

'666

ST.

JOSEPH

TOWNSHIP V. ROGERS.

LSuP. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

the hands of innocent holders, it was too late, even in a diret proceeding, to call the power in question, and that it
was beyond all doubt too late to call the power in question
to the prejudice of a bond fide holder of the bonds in a collateral way, which is attempted to be done in the case before
the court.*
Exactly the same principles were applied in the case of
Royal British Bank v. Turquand,t in which the opinion was
given by the chief justice. He said the bond sued upon in
the case is allowed to be under the seal of the company and
to be their deed, consequently a primnfacie case is made for
the plaintiff, as the defendants having executed the bond
have no defence under the plea of non est factum, and consequently the onus is cast upon them of showing that the
bond is unlawful and void. No illegality appears on the
face of the bond or condition, which shows that the plea, in
order that it may be supported, must allege facts to establish illegality, but the plea makes no charge of fraud against
the plaintiff and states no facts fr-om which fraud may be
inferred. Want of authority to execute the bond, it was
conceded, would be an answer to the action, but it was denied that a mere excess of authority by the directors would
have that effect, unless it appeared that the plaintiff had
knowledge of that fact, as the presumption would be, from
what appeared on the face of the bond, that it was issued
by lawful authority, and the court held that the plaintiff was
entitled to recover, as he had advanced his money in good
faith for the use of the company, giving credit to the representations of the directors that they had authority to execute
the instrument. Dissatisfied with the judgment the defendant brought a writ of error in the Exchequer Chamber, where
the case was reargued, but the Court of Errors unanimously
affirmed the judgment.1
Viewed in any reasonable light the court is. of the opinion
that the plaintiff is an innocent holder for value, and that
the loss, even if the supervisor failed in his duty to his con*

Supervisors v. Schenck, 5 Wallace, 783.

J Same Case, 6 Ellis & Blackburne, 331.

t 5 Ellis & Blackburne, 269.

Dec. 1872.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. COUNTY OF OToE.

667

Statement of the case.

stituents, cannot be cast upon the bond fide creditors of the
township.*
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

Mr. Justice MILLER and Mr. Justice FIELD did not sit
in this case.

RAILROAD COMPANY V. COUNTY OF OTOE.
1. Unless restrained by a constitutional prohibition of some sort, the legislature of a State may properly authorize a county to aid, by issuing its
bonds, and giving them as a donation to a railroad company, the construction of a road outside of the county and even outside of the State,
if the purpose of the road be to give to the county a connection which
is desirable with some other region.
2. There is no such prohibition on the legislature in the constitution of Nebraska.
8. A legislative act prescribing the mode in which counties shall issue their
bonds, is but the act of one legislature; and accordingly a special act
giving to a county a right to issue their bonds in disregard of the ordi.
nary legislative provisions, authorizes such last-named sort of issue.

ON certificate of division from the Circuit Court of Nebraska; the case being thus:
An act of the Territorial legislature of Nebraska, approved
January 1st, 1861, enacted:
"That the commissioners of any county should have power
to submit to the people of any county at any regular or special
election, the question whether the county will aid or construct
any road; and said commissioners may aid any enterprise designed for the benefit of the county as aforesaid, whenever a
majority of the people thereof shall be in favor of the proposition as provided in this section.
"When the question submitted involves the borrowing or
expenditure of money, the proposition of the question must be
accompanied by a provision to lay a tax for the payment thereof,
in addition to the usual taxes under section sixteen of this chap* Maclae v. Sutherland, 25 English Law and Equity, 114.

