SPECHT

v.

HOWARD.

[Sup. ot,

Syllabus.

been, specially pleaded.* This must have taken the defendant by surprise, and been very harsh in its effect. It
would, doubtless, have tended to defeat rather than promote
the ends of justice. The ruling of the court which required
the plaintiff to prove the heirship aliunde subjected him to
no hardship. If the fact were as found by the special verdict there could be no difficulty in his proving it, as it was
proved before. If the fact were otherwise, to admit the
estoppel would have involved the sacrifice of truth and justice to a technicality, and have subjected the defendant to a
grievous loss, which he ought not to be required to bear.
The parties were properly allowed to stand in the second
action in all respects upon a footing of equality, as they
stood in the first.
Upon the whole case we are of opinion that the learned
judge decided correctly in rejecting the evidence. There
are other grounds disclosed in the record, upon which, in
the view of some members of the court, a judgment of
affirmance might well be placed; but as we are unanimous
in the views expressed, it has been deemed unnecessary
fully to consider them.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

SPECHT V. HOWARD ET AL.
1. Where improper evidence has been suffered by the court to get before the
jury, it is properly afterwards withdrawn from it.
2. On a suit by the indorsee of a negotiable note which has no place of payment specified in it, against the indorser who relied on a confessedly defective demand on the maker, of payment; that is to say, on a fruitless
effort at demand, in the place where the note was dated, but in which
place the maker did not live, parol evidence that at the time when the
note was drawn, it was agreed between the maker and the indorsee that.
it should be made payable in the place where the effort to demand payment had been made, and that this place of payment had been omitted
* Dame v. Wingate, 12 New Hampshire, 2P1.

Dec. 1872.]

SPECHT V.

HOWARD.

Statement of the case in the opinion.
by the mistake of the draughtsman-being evidence to vary or qualify
the absolute terms of the written contract-would be improperly let in
to the jury and would be properly withdrawn.

ERROR

to the Circuit Court for the Western District of

Tennessee.
Mr. D. . MclRae, for the plaintiff in error; Messrs. R. At.
Corwine and Quinton Corwine, contra.
Mr. Justice SWAYNE stated the case, and delivered the
opinion of the court.
The defendants in error were the plaintiffs in the court
below. The action was upon a promissory note made by
Jehl & Brother to Specht, and by him indorsed to Howard,
Sanger & Co., the plaintiffs. The makers and indorser lived
in Memphis. The indorsees lived in the city of New York,
and the note was made and indorsed there. No place of
payment was mentioned in the note. At its maturity the
makers were sought in the city of New York, and not being
found, the note was protested for non-payment, and notice
was given by mail to the indorser. Upon the trial, after
proof of the protest and notice, the plaintiffs offered to prove
that at the time the note was drawn, it was agreed between
ihe makers, and Howard, Sanger & Co., that it should be
nade payable in the city of New York, and that the place
)f payment was omitted by the mistake of the draughtsman.
1.pecht objected to.the admission of the testimony. The
)bjection was overruled and he excepted. The agreement
.and mistake were proved. Specht then offered to prove
that he had not consented that the note should be made
payable in New York. The testimony was rejected and he
,excepted. He then asked the court to rule that the plaintiffs' evidence showed such a change in his contract of indorsement as discharged him from liability. The court
refused so to rule; and he excepted. The court then withdrew from the jury the evidence relating to the parol agreement, and ruled that the proof of demand and notice was
insufficient to create any liability on the part of the defend.

WATER COMPANY V.

WARE.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

ant. Specht excepted to the withdrawal of the evidence as
to the parol agreement. The plaintiffs then proved that,
after the maturity of the note, Specht, with a full knowledge
of the defective demand and notice, promised to pay the
note. No objection was made to the admission of this testimony, nor to the charge of the court upon the subject.
The jury found for the plaintiffs and judgment was rendered
accordingly.
The error complained of is, that the court withdrew from
the jury the evidence touching the parol agreement as to
the place of payment made contemporaneously with the
drawing and execution of the note. The plaintiff in error
insists that, being a surety, it altered and discharged his
contract.
The evidence was improperly admitted and was properly
withdrawn. The agreement was a nullity and could not in
any wise affect the rights of either of the parties. "It is a
firmly settled principle that parol evidence of an oral agreement alleged to have been made at the time of the drawing,
making, or indorsing of a bill or note, cannot be permitted
to vary, qualify, or contradict, to add to or subtract from
the absolute terms of the written contract."* An agreement between the creditor and principal must, to exonerate
the surety, be one "binding in law upon the parties."t
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

WATER

COMPANY V.

WARE.

Where an incorporated company undertook to lay water-pipes in a city,
agreeing that it would "protect all persons against damages by reason
of excavations made by them in laying pipes, and to be responsible for
all damages which may occur by reason of the neglect of their employ.s on

* Parsons on Notes and Bills, 501.
t XcLemore v. Powell, 12 Wheaton, 554.

