VOORHEES V. BONESTEEL AND WIFE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

in their action arising from want of power by any extent of
recitalk that they had the requisite authority. With great
deference to the opinions of my associates, this seems to me
to be a legal truism.
3d. When the bonds in suit were executed and issued the
county judge was i n the city of New York, and by express
provision of the statutes of Iowa his authority and functions
ceased when lie was without the State. At the time he put
his signature to these instruments another person was acting
as judge in his place and was invested with his authority,
and as such officer issued county warrants, held a term of
the County Court, and discharged.other duties devolved by
law upon the county judge.
It seems to me that the ruling of the majority of the court
in this case, holding that the bonds, issued under circumstances attending the issue of these, are valid obligations,
binding upon the county, goes further than any previous
adjudication towards breaking down the barriers which
State legislatures have erected against the creation of debts,
and consequent increase of taxation, by careless, ignorant,
or unscrupulous public officers.

VOORHEES

v.

BONESTEEL AND WIFE.

1. Affirmative rplief will not be granted in equity upon the ground of fraud
unless it be made a distinct allegation in the bill.
2. Nor will a trust alleged in a bill to exist, be considered as proved when
every material allegation of the bill in that behalf is distinctly denied
in the answer; and the proofs, instead of being sufficient to overcome
the answer, afford satisfactory grounds for holding that there was no
trust in the case.
8. Under the laws of New York, a married woman may manage her separate property, through the agency of her husband, without subjecting it
to the claims of his creditors; and when he has no interest in the business, the application of a portion of the income to his support will not
impair her title to the property.
APPEAL from the decree of the Circuit Court for the
Southern District of New York, dismissing a bill filed by

Dec. 1872.]

VOORHEES V. BONESTEEL

AND

WIFE.

17'

Statement of the case.

one Voorhees, assignee in bankruptcy of John Bonesteel,
against the said Bonesteel and Sophia his wife, to get possession of 1145 shares of the stock of the Nicolson Pavement Company, of Brooklyn, which, though standing in the
name of the wife, he, the assignee, asserted were held in
fact and truth for the husband, but which the husband and
wife asserted were not so held, but belonged, on the con.
trary, to the wife alone, and were her separate property.
The case was thus:
John Bonesteel, above named, at first resident in Chicagr.
and afterwards in New York, a man of active and scheming
turn of mind, but always embarrassed, and Mr. S. B. Chittenden, also first of Chicago but afterwards of Brooklyn, a
man of property and standing in that place, the second largest taxpayer in the place and editing or controlling the editorship of the Brooklyn Union, an influential paper there,
had married in 1848, or thereabouts, each of them, a daughter of one Hartwell, a person of property in Bridgeport. At
the date mentioned, Bonesteel was engaged in business in
Chicago, and dealing not unfrequently with his brother-inlaw, Ohittenden, who was also in business there, but who,
appears to have always rather distrusted Bonesteel's capacity
for the practical management of affairs. In 1853, or 1854,
said Mr. Chittenden, in giving testimony in the matter, "It
became apparent to me that he was insolvent, and, I told his
wife's father that I thought so. In 1855, perhaps, I told him
he had better do no business with me. From that time to
1859 Mr. Hartwell very frequently advanced money to him;
as often as twice a year. When he came to New York to
pay his debts he would advance money to him to help him
through the season. In 1859 he failed and made an assignment. A year or two later, I think in 1863, he came to
New York to reside, Mr. Hartwell furnishing him money
to pay his board. He had no occupation. After he had
been there boarding, Mr. Hartwell furnishing his daughter
money for the support of the family, a year or longer, he
began to do a brokerage dry goods business. He came and
bought goods of me. I knew that he was bankrupt, and we
VOL. xVI.

2

18

VooIIEES v. BONESTEEL AND WIFE.

[Sup.

Ct.

Statement of the case.
never delivered goods until he paid for them. He was my
brother-in-law, but I refused to allow my firm to sell him
goods on any other condition, because I thought somebody
might attach them. I think, within the last year, while
pursuing this business, his father-in-law wrote me a letter
stating that he had concluded, ' at the request of John's wife,
to advance him another $3000,' and he ordered me to pay
the money over to him. I paid him the $3000, but I wrote
to Mr. Hartwell that he would lose it; that I didn't think
Mr. Bonesteel would ever be able to return it. He said,
, I do it for my daughter.' "
In this condition of things, about the year 1865, one Taylor, who had also been a resident of Chicago, but had now
come to reside in New York-had purchased from Samuel
Nicolson, the patentee of that sort of pavement called by
his name, a license to furnish it to certain places, including
New York and Brooklyn, in the East, and was now seeking to get the pavement into general public use. He gave
this account of things:
"When I first came to New York, I was an entire stranger
in the city. Being intimately acquainted with Mr. Bonesteel,
and Mrs. Bonesteel, too, and desiring to get the influence of her
and her husband, and other influential parties, I made up my
mind to give Mrs. Bonesteel one-third interest of Brooklyn, at
that time; being satisfied that it was for my interest to give it
to her. I had a conversation with her, in the end of June or
beginning of July, 1866. The substance of the conversation
was; Mr. Bonesteel had been exerting himself with me, going
round and seeing parties for a month or more, in reference to
introducing the pavement. She felt uneasy about his neglecting his own business, and running round for me about 'the
Nicolson,' which, she was afraid, would amount to nothing.
I impressed upon her that it would be a good thing, provided I
could get certain influences-the influence of Mr. Chittenden,
the only person whose influence was wanted-to help me along.
She stated that she had let her husband have some money to
engage in business, and that by his neglecting that he would
lose what he had, and not make anything out of the pavement.
1 toll her I was satisfied that she would make four times as

Dec. 1872.]

VOORHEES

V. BONESTEEL AND WIFE.

19

Statement of the case.

much out of the pavement as Bonesteel would in trafficking in
goods."
Bonesteel, the bankrupt, gave an account of things not
dissimilar, as follows:
"Mr. Taylor was a stranger in the city, and was anxious to
introduce the pavement here, and, at the same time, had a large
contract at Elmira, New York; and, knowing that I had many
acquaintances and friends here who could be of assistance to me
in the obtaining of contracts for introducing the pavement,
wished me to secure them; showing me, at the same time, that
there was a good profit in the work; that if I would devote
and give my time to it, I should have all the profit, over
$1000, realized therefrom. . . . He was constantly coming to
me, at my place of business, and taking up my time in calling
upon influential parties and property owners. I said to him
that my wife bad furnished to me several thousand dollars in
money to use in the purchase and selling of merchandise, to
assist in the making of money to maintain the family, and that
I did not feel it was right or proper, under the circumstances,
to give up so much of my time. I called his attention fre,quently to his taking so much of my time. He said she should
not be made the sufferer by the misappropriationof my time."
The account given by Mr. Chittenden, as appearing in
interrogatories put to him and answers received, was thus:
Question. When did you first hear of the Nicolson pavement
in connection with Brooklyn?
Answer. Some time in the year 1866, standing in the subtreasury building, I saw Mr. Bonesteel. I asked him what he
was about. He spoke of a new pavement. I asked him where
the pavement came from, and what the merits of it were. He
told me about it, and I asked him to come to my office and talk
to me about it. After hearing his story, I said, "John, you
were always wild. I don't believe in it, but I will investigate
it." I sent to Chicago and Milwaukee, wrote to gentlemen to
whom he referred me, and made inquiries.
Q. Did you have any interview with Mrs. Bonesteel on the
subject?
A. I was in the habit of visiting her constantly, and talked
with her about it frequently.

20

VOORHEES V. BONESTEEL AND WIFE.

[Sup.

Ot.

Statement of the case.

Q. What did she propose to you about it, if anything?
A. I don't know that she proposed absolutely anything to me
in the early part of it.
Q. At any time, about introducing it?
A. According to my recollection, I said, if I can ascertain that
this is a good pavement for Brooklyn, I will do all I can for it;
and I also said, if I do it, Mr. Taylor ought to give you at least
a half interest in it.
Q. Had she then expressed a desire to have you aid her in
the matter?
A. She at first expressed a strong disinclination to have her
husband have anything to do with it, because she had no faith
in it.
Q. Later, was her opinion changed?
A. When I became satisfied it was a good pavement, she was
very glad to have my assistance.
Q. You did finally assist in introducing the pavement into.
this city ?
A. I laid it in front of my own property, and in front of my
neighbor's property, both sides of the street, at my own expense.
Q. Why?
A. Because I believed that it was the best pavement that
could be possibly devised for Brooklyn.
Q. How, in your mind, was that to benefit Mrs. Bonesteel?
A. I told her husband and told her that, in consideration of
the advocacy which I could give it, and which the newspaper
which I had the management of could give-as it was a good
pavement-the least he could do, if he was a reasonable man,
was to give her half. I urged and insisted on this. But I did
not make this a condition of my advocating the pavement. I
had a double object: I knew it was a good pavement and I desired to benefit Mrs. Bonesteel.
Q. You knew she was embarrassed somewhat by her husband's difficulties?
A. I knew perfectly well that her family were living at the
expense of her father.
Q. You knew that they were living at her father's house ?
A. In her father's house, and I had reason to suppose that he
had never returned any of the money that he had received from

De.' 1872.]

VooRHEES V. BONESTEEL AND WIFE.

21

Statement of the case.

him many years, which I think he once said to me had amounted
to $30,000.
Q. Did Mrs. Bonesteel confer all along with you as her adviser in reference to the management of the business?
A. My impression is that nothing important was done in the
matter without consulting me. When she required money she
came to me.
Q. So that she took an active part in the matter herself?
A. She took an active part in it; as much as any lady would
who trusted in her husband and confided in his good intentions.
CROSS-EXAMINED.

Q. You say that you said to Mrs. Bonesteel that she ought to
have half; who did you suppose at that time was to have this
right for Brooklyn? Who was to have the other half?
A. I was asked to buy an interest in it, and refused to give
$100 for the whole of it. I had a doubt whether it was worth
$100. I was well aware of the difficulties of introducing matters of this kind into a city like Brooklyn.
Q. You say that you said that Mrs. Bonesteel, you thought,
ought to have half. Who was to have the other half?
A. Mr. Taylor owned the whole. My argument was this to
Air. Bonesteel: 11Mr.Taylor owns the whole; by your industry
you may possibly work up something; if you do it is fair that
ke should give your wife a half interest."
Q. Then you expected that Mr. Taylor and Mrs. Bonesteel
,vould go on together?
A. I presumed that Mr. Taylor would sell out if he could, and
as quick as he could.
Q. How many conversations did you have with Mr. Taylor,
and to what effect?
A. Two conversations perhaps. We talked on various subjects. I told him I believed it was a good pavement, but I
doubted whether there was any money to be made in it. I told
him I was willing to advocate it, and I did advocate it. I gave
instructions to the editor of the Brooklyn Union to get all the information he could on the subject, and to advocate it as strongly
as the facts would admit of.
Q. Was there anything ever said by you, or in your presence,
relative to this interest being transferred to Mr. Bonesteel?

VOORHEES v. BONESTEEL AND WIFE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

A. Not a word?
Q. Or to Mrs. Bonesteel, in preference to being transferred to
him?
A. It was distinctly understood that Mr. Bonesteel was a
bankrupt, and it would be of no use to put it in his name, and
if it was transferredat all, I understood that Mr. Taylor gave it to
Mtrs. Bonesteel as he would a silver cup to her child.
After Mr. Chittenden had laid the pavement in front of
his own house, as described, and after it was advocated in
the Brooklyn Union, one-half the license for Brooklyn was
sold largely through the efforts of Mr. Bonesteel (acting, as
his wife testified, as her agent), to Messrs. Page, Kidder &
Co., for $10,000; and by the same instrument of conveyance by which this was done the other half was transferred
to Mrs. Bonesteel herself.
Bonesteel, the husband, testified that he considered that
the transfer was thus made to her, in consequence of what
he had told Taylor about taking up his time away from
business that he was carrying on as his wife's agent, and
with her money; more especially since by his not attending
to her business, he let the right season for selling pass, and
so caused a loss to his wife of several thousand dollars.
How a half came now to be transferred to Mrs. Bonesteel
instead of a third, which Taylor by that part of his testimony already quoted, stated that he meant originally to give
her, was thus explained or sought to be by himself.
When so good a sale as the one to Page, Kidder & Co.
for $10,000 had been made, Bonesteel, it seemed, had urged
upon Taylor that he ought to be content with such a good
sum of money, and give the remaining half to him or his
wife. Taylor knew that Bonesteel had failed; and in regard
to the whole matter stated thus:
"I said to Mr. Bonesteel when he insisted upon my giving
the interest between the third and the half,that I wanted to
keep it myself, and should not let his wife have it, but upon his
urging matters I told him that I would not give it to him, but
to his wife, as I did the other, for he was in debt, and if I did,
his creditors would get it, and that I had nothing to give them.

Dec. 1872.]

VOOICHEES V. BONESTEEL AND WIFE.

21

Statement of the case.

I had not previously conveyed the one-half to his wife, but had.
made up my mind to give it to her as promised, and therefore
considered it as given. He claimed that it was through Chittenden's influence that I sold the half of Brooklyn for what I got,
and I thought it was, and I conveyed it. . . . I would not have
conveyed the half if I had not thought thus of Mr. Chittenden's
influence. I thought his influence of great importance, as he
was rich and a prominent man in Brooklyn."
Page, Kidder & Co., being thus owners of one-half the
licenses, and Mrs. Bonesteel holding the other half, they
two-Bonesteel, the husband, acting for her, and as she testified as her agent-organized under the general law of New
York, the Kicolson Pavement Company of Brooklyn; and
transferring each their half of the license to the company
received in return stock in its capital; this capital being
fixed in the charter at $500,000.
As the result proved, Bonesteel was not "always" wild.
This particular project, at least, proved a good one. Mrs.
Bonesteel soon sold to a certain W. Smith & Co. one-half
of her stock (a quarter of the capital) for $10,000, receiving
the purchase-money and using it as her own; she left 356
shares in the company as working capital; sold 44 other
shares for $2000, and used the money; gave her husband 5
shares, enough to enable him to become a trustee and president of the company, which he, now was, at a salary of
$4000, and had 1145 shares, charged to be worth $30,000,
and impliedly admitted to be worth about $10,000, remaining in her own name.
It was these 1145 shares which her husband's assignee in
bankruptcy, by the bill filed against him and her, now
sought to recover for his creditors.
The bill set forth debts to the amount of $30,000, and
assets, one worthless note; charged that the one-half interest
vested in Mrs. Bonesteel was in truth conveyed to her in
consideration of her husband's services, in negotiating and
selling the other half; that the stock was, therefore, in fact
the property of her husband, the now bankrupt. It charged
further, that since the organization of the company, Bone-

24

VOORHEES

v. BONESTEEL AND WIFE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

steel had participated in its management, and had no other
business; that many very profitable contracts had been since
made with the city of Brooklyn for paving, &c. The bill
prayed an account and transfer of the stock to the complainant, the assignee.
Both husband and wife answered, each denying every
material allegation in the bill; her answer specially averring, that when the Nicolson pavement was brought forward, her husband was acting with her knowledge and
approval as her agent, with money owned by her, advanced
to her by her father, and with other sums used in support
of the family and advanced by her, to be charged on any
distribution of his property at his death as advances; that
her husband continued to act as her agent in the matter of
the pavement; that she had laid out large sums of her own
money in advancing and protecting her interests in the
company; and setting up generally a history such as the
reader can readily infer from the case as already stated.
The reader will thus perceive that the question was really
one of evidence on the facts; and one where the evidence
was pretty much one way.
The court below dismissed the bill; and from that decree
it was that the present appeal was taken.
Hr. J. P. C. Cottrill,.for the appellants; Messrs. J. Winslow
and J M. Van Cott, contra.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Assignees of the estate of the debtor, in a proceeding in
bankruptcy, may be chosen by the creditors, or if they make
no choice, at their first meeting, the judge, or, in case there
is no opposing interest, the register, may make the appointment, subject to the approval of the judge.* Section fourteen also provides that as soon as an assignee is appointed
and qualified, the judge, or where there is no opposing interest, the register, shall, by an instrument under his hand.
* 14 Stat. at Large, 522.

Dec. 1872.]

VOORHEES

v.

BONESTEEL AND

WIFE.

25

Restatement of the case in the opinion.

assign and convey to the assignee all the estate, real and
personal, of the bankrupt, and that the title to all such
estate, with the deeds, books, and papers of the bankrupt
relating thereto, shall, by operation of law, vest in such
assignee. Such assignments, it was foreseen, might give
rise to controversies, and the second section of the act, in
view of that contingency, provides that Circuit Courts shall
have concurrent jurisdiction with the District Courts, of the
same district, of all suits at law or in equity which may or
shall be brought, by the assignee in bankruptcy, against
any person claiming an adverse interest, or by such person
against such assignee, touching any property or rights of
property of said bankrupt, transferable to or vested in such
assignee.
Voorhees, the complainant, is the assignee in bankruptcy
of the first-named respondent, and he alleges in the bill of
complaint that the schedule of debts, filed by the bankrupt,
shows that he owed debts to an amount exceeding thirty
thousand dollars; that the schedule exhibits no assets except a certain note believed to be worthless; that the other
respondent is the wife of the bankrupt; that she has standing in her name, upon the books of the Kicolson Pavement
Company, a corporation organized under the general laws
of the State of New York, eleven hundred and forty-five
shares of the capital stock of said company, of the par value
of one hundred and fourteen thousand five hundred dollars,
and that she holds stock certificates of the said company for
the said shares, which are believed to be of a value exceeding thirty thousand dollars. Apart from those matters the
complainant also alleges that he, as such assignee, has received the required instrument, duly executed, assigning
and conveying to him all the estate, real and personal, of
the bankrupt, and that the said stock, as he believes, is in
fact and truth the property of the bankrupt, and as such
that it should have been included in the inventory of his
property, and that it should be applied to the payment of
the debts due to his creditors. All of said shares, it is ad-

26

VOORHEES

v.

BONESTEEL AND WIFE.

[Sup. Ct.

Restatement of the case in the opinion.

mitted, are standing in the name of the wife of the bankrupt, but the complainant alleges that the facts and circumstances under which the title was acquired, as confirmed by
the conduct of the respondents since that time, affords satisfactory evidence that the property of the shares is in the
bankrupt, and he states what the facts and circumstances
attending the acquisition were, as he is informed and believes, with great fulness and particularity. Appended to
that statement are eleven interrogatories to the respondents,
designed to elicit evidence to establish the truth of the
alleged circumstances.
Service was made and the respondents appeared and filed
separate answers. Among other things the last-named respondent admits that she is the wife of the bankrupt, that
the shares mentioned in the bill are standing in her name
upon the books of the pavement company, and that she holds
the stock certificates therefor, but she alleges that the value
of the stock is less than one-third of the sum alleged in the
bill. Oil the other hand she denies that the stock is or ever
was the property of the bankrupt, or that he ever had any
interest therein, or that the shares should have been included
in his inventory, or be applied to the payment of the debts
due to his creditors, and she denies that the circumstances
under which she became possessed of the stock are correctly
set forth in the bill, and each and every allegation in that
behalf, so far as the same are different from, or inconsistent
with, the statement as set forth in her answer. What she
alleges is, that prior to that time she was engaged in the dry
goods business, her husband acting as her agent and attorney
in fact in carrying on the business; that the business was
conducted in her name and for her account, upon capital
furnished to her by her father; that he made advances to
her exceeding twenty thousand dollars, which she employed
in carrying on that business or expended in paying the
expenses of their family; that the assignee of the patent
described in the bill desired to secure her services and
influence, and through her the influence of her friends,
in the interest of that improvement, and proposed if she

Dec. 1872.]

VOORHEES V. BONESTEEL AND WIFE.

27

Restatement of the case in the opinion.

would render such services and procure the aid and influ
ence of her friends for the same purpose that he would give'
her a one-half interest and right in his assignment or license
to lay such pavement in that city, and would also give her
husband employment in promoting the enterprise and accomplishing the undertaking; that she accepted the proposition and rendered the promised service in all proper ways
in her power, and that the other contracting party, in consideration thereof, conveyed a one-half interest in the enterprise to her as he had proposed, and that such conveyance
was made and received in good faith and without amy intent
of defrauding the creditors of the bankrupt; that none of
the money, assets, or property of the bankrupt was used to
procure such conveyance, nor is the same in any way represented in the shares of the capital stock of the pavement
company now held and owned by the respondent. Suffice
it to say, without reproducing the further details of her answer, that she claims and averg that she is legally and equitably entitled to hold, and that she does hold the shares in
question as her separate and individual estate.
Substantially the same defences are set up in the answer
of the other respondent. He admits that the first-named
respondent is his wife, that the stock stands in her name,
and that she holds the stock certificates; but he denies that
the stock is or ever was his property; that he has or ever
had any interest in the same, or that it should have been
included in his inventory, or that it should be applied to the
payment of his debts as alleged in the bill. Concurring
with the other respondent he also denies that the circumstances under which she acquired the shares are such as are
alleged in the bill, and avers that the shares mentioned are
the individual and separate property of his wife, as alleged
in her answer.
Proofs were taken on both sides, and the court having
heard the parties, entered a decree for the respondents, dismissing the bill of complaint, and the complainant appealed
to this court.
Before proceeding to examine the errors assigned it be-

28

VOORHEES v. BONESTEEL AND

WIFE.

[Sup. Ct.

Restatement of the case in the opinion.

comes necessary to make some farther reference to the circumstances of the transaction, in order that the questions
presented for decision may be fully understood. Both parties agree that the title to the shares in question came from

the owner of the license, granted by the patentee of the
pavement invention, to lay that pavement in the city of

Brooklyn, and the pleadings and proofs show that the bankrupt, acting as the agent of his wife, negotiated a sale to the
firm therein mentioned of one-half of the right for the sum
of ten thousand dollars, and that the owner of that license,
in consideration of those services and the services in the
same behalf rendered by the wife, agreed to assign the other
half of the license to the wife, who is the present holder of
the shares. Pursuant to that agreement the owner of the
license, on the seventh of December, 1866, made an assignment of the whole license, conveying one-half to the lastnamed respondent, and the other half to the firm by whom
it had previously been purchased; and it appears that the
sale and transfer were ratified by the patentee on the tenth
of May following. By this arrangement the last-named
respondent became the owner of one-half of the license in-

terest, but she subsequently sold to William Smith & Co.
one-half of her interest so acquired for the sum of ten thousand dollars, and received the consideration to her own use,
and expended the money for the support of herself and
family.
All the parties interested came together on the fifth of
November, subsequent to the execution of the confirmatory
license by the patentee, and organized the pavement company, and in consideration of the transfer of that license to
the company, the several parties received certificates in due
form for their respective proportions of the same, the lastnamed respondent receiving eleven hundred and fifty shares
of the stock, being one-fourth, less four hundred shares reserved for the working capital of the corporation. Fortyfour of the reserved shares were subsequently transferred to
the same respondent, and the proofs show that she sold the
same as her own property and appropriated the avails to

Dec. 1872.]

VOO HEES

v. BONESTEEL AND WIFE.

29

Opinion of the court.

pay her family expenses. Five of the shares first allotted to
her she gave to her husband that he might be qualified to
act as a trustee in the company, leaving the eleven hundred
and forty-five shares standing in her name.
It is elaimed by the assignee that the half-interest in the
license right was transferred to the wife of the bankrupt at
a time when he was insolvent, in consideration of the services rendered by the bankrupt, and that the avails belonged
to his creditors, and that the ownership vested in the wife is
simply a cover and a fraud. Accusations of fraud may well
be dismissed, as nothing of the kind is alleged in the bill of
complaint, and it is well-settled law that affirmative relief
will not be granted in equity upon the ground of fraud
unless it be made a distinct allegation in the bill, so that it
may be put in issue by the pleadings.*
Suppose, however, the rule was otherwise, and that the,
complainant may prove fraud, and be entitled to relief upon
that ground, even if he has not alleged anything of the kind,
still the result must be the same, as he has not introduced
any sufficient proof to establish the charge or to warrant the
court in adopting that theory, even if the charge was made'
in the bill. Instead of that, the theory of the bill is that the
half-interest in the pavement license was conveyed to the
wife in trust for her husband, and that the shares in question are now held by her to his use, as representing to that
extent the one-half interest of the pavement license, which,
as the complainant alleges, was purchased for the benefit of
the bankrupt.
Confessedly the claim in that view is distinctly alleged in
the bill, but the difficulty which the complainant has to encounter in attempting to support that theory is that every
material allegation of the bill in that behalf is distinctly
denied in each of the answers, and that the proofs, instead
Noonan v. Lee, 2 Black, 508; Moore v. Greene, 19 Howard, 69; Beaubien v. Beaubien, 23 Id. 190; Magniac v. Thomson, 15 Id. 281; Same Case, 2
Wallace, Jr., 209; Eyre v. Potter, 15 Howard, 42; Fisher v. Beody, 1 Cur
tis, 206.

80

VOORHEES v.

BONESTEEL AND WIFE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

of being sufficient to overcome the answers, afford satisfactory grounds for holding that the theory of the respondents
is correct.
Courts of equity cannot decree against such denials in the
answer of the respondent, on the testimony of a single witness. Where the denial is distinct the rule is universal that
the complainant under such circumstances must have two
witnesses, or one witness and corroborative circumstances,
or he is not entitled to relief, as he cannot prevail if the balance of proof be not in his favor, and he must have circumstances in his favor in addition to his single witness in order
to turn the balance.*
Evidence is entirely wanting to show that the holder of
the shares in dispute, or her grantor, or her husband, ever
intended or supposed that the conveyance of the one-half
interest in the license was made to the wife in trust for her
husband. Taken as a whole, the proofs, instead of supporting that theory, show very satisfactorily that the property
was conveyed to the holder of the shares, in pursuance of a
prior agreement between her and her grantor that she
should have such an interest as her own, and that it was
received by her without any suggestion from any source
that the title was in any manner qualified, or that it was not
to be her own separate property.t Confirmation of that view
is derived from the conduct and declarations of all the parties, during the negotiations and at the time of the transfer
Throughout she always treated the property as her own, and
the husband constantly acquiesced in that claim. She sold
a part of the interest and received the purchase-money, and
disposed of it as her own, and when the pavement company
was organized, she joined with the others interested in the
enterprise, and transferred her remaining interest to the
company and became a stockholder, accepting the eleven
hundred and fifty shares as her proportion of the stoek to
be divided at that time among the shareholders. All agreed
* Clark's Ex'r v. Van Riemsdyk, 9 Cranch, 160; Hughes v. Blake, 6

Wheaton, 468; Delano v. Winsor, 1 Cliff6rd, 505.
t Voorhees, Assignee, v. Bonesteel, 7 Blatchford, 498.

Dec. 1872.]

VOORHEES V. BONESTEEL AND 'WIFE.

81

. Opinion of the court.

in treating her as the owner of a quarter interest in the
license, and they assigned the shares to her as her separate

property, and the evidence shows that she has always dealt
with the interest in the license and in the stock as her own.
Attempt is made in argument to show that the conveyance of the one-half interest in the pavement license was
made, in part at least, in consideration of the services of the
bankrupt, and it must be conceded that some of the proofs
tend strongly to support that theory, but the answer to the
suggestion made by the respondents, deduced from the same
proofs, is satisfactory and conclusive. Those same proofs
also show that in rendering those services the bankrupt was
acting as the agent and attorney in fact of his wife, that for
some time previously he had been engaged in transacting
her business, using the money furnished to her by her father,
and that the respondent in rendering the services which it
is urged constituted a part of the consideration for the sale
of the half interest in the pavement license, he was acting
in her behalf and to promote her interest.
Under the laws of New York a married woman may
manage her separate. property, through the agency of her
husband, without subjecting it to the claims of his creditors,
and it is held that she is entitled to the profits of a mercantile business, conducted by the husband in her name, if the
capital is furnished by her and he has no interest but that
of a mere agent.* Where the husband has no interest in
the business it is also held that the application of a portion
of the income to the support of the husband will not impair
the title of the wife to the property.t Married women, at
common law, could take title to real or personal property
by conveyance from any person except the husband, but
where no trust was created her personal property vested absolutely in her husband when reduced to his possession, and
he became possessed of her chattels real in her right with
* Abbey v. Deyo, 44 Barbour, 881.

t Buckley v. Wells, 83 New York, 520; Sessions Acts 1848, 807; Id. 1849,
528; Id. 1860, 157.

32

VOORHEES v.

BONESTEEL AND WIFE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

power to alien them at his pleasure during her life, and if
he survived her, they became his absolute property. Statutes, such as those above referred to, are intended to divest
the title of the husband, as such, during coverture, and to
enable the wife to take the absolute title as though she were
unmarried.* Laws of the kind have the effect to modify so
far the antecedent disabilities incident to the conjugal relation, as to secure the wife in the beneficial enjoyment of the
new interests she is permitted by law to acquire, and it is
expressly held that she is at liberty to avail herself of the
agency of her husband as if they had not been united in
marriage.t Those laws vest in the wife the legal title to the
rents, issues, and profits of her real estate as against the
husband and his creditors, and it is held that the husband
cannot, as formerly, acquire title to such property in virtue
of his marital rights. Consequently it is held that where
the legal title to property is in the wife, as against her husband, it cannot be seized to satisfy his debts without proof
that in the given case her title is merely colorable and fraudulent as against his creditors, which is decisive of this case,
as nothing of the kind was either alleged in the bill or
established by any sufficient evidence.t
Apply that rule to the case and it is clear that the decision
of the Circuit Court is correct, and the decree is accordingly
AFFIRMED.

Draper v. Stouvenel, 35 New York, 512; Kelso v. Tabor, 52 Barbour,
127.
t Owen v. Cawley, 36 New York, 600.
$ Gage v. Dauchy et al., 84 New York, 298; Webster v. Hildreth, 88 Ver.
mont, 457.

