IRIBON V. RAILROAD

COMPANIES.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

making other provisions for these floating grants, and this
duty was performed by the Wyandotte treaty of 1855. This
treaty, among other things, allowed the reservees to locate
their floats on any government lands west of Missouri and
Iowa subject to pre-emption and settlement, and removed
the restraint upon the power of alienation, imposed in the
former treaty. This action of the government placed Long
and the defendants, as to the lands in question, on precisely the same grounds. Neither party could acquire any
right to them until they were thrown open to pre-emption
and settlement, and both, as soon as this was done, were
at liberty to take them up; Long, by means of his float,
the defendants by reason of their qualifications as pre-emptors; and whoever moved in the matter first would have
the better right. It required, however, positive affirmative action after the lands were declared to be public lands
before any title to them, legal or equitable, could be obtained, and all proceedings attempting to forestall the proclamation of the President were null and void, because in contravention of the treaty with the Shawnees. The defendants,
not relying on their prior settlement in February, 1857, to
protect them, took the proper steps after this proclamation
to perfect their pre-emption, and have performed all the
conditions to which they were subject by the law. They
have therefore a complete equitable title to the land, and as
the patent issued to Long was based on an unlawful entry
it ought to be transferred to the defendants.
There is, in our opinion, no error in the judgment of the
Supreme Court of Kansas, and it is accordingly
AFFIRMED.

IRIBON V. RAILROAD COMPANIES.
A.majority of the stockholders and creditors of a railroad company which
had several mortgages on the road, agreed to sell it for a price offered,
and to divide the proceeds among all the stockholders and creditors in a
way settled on by those agreeing to the plan. Other stockholders and

Dec. 1872.]

RIBON v. RAILROAD COMPANIES.

447

Statement of the case.
creditors refusing to agree, in order to get around their opposition a sale
.was effected through the action of the majority, by an amicable foreclosure of mortgage, the trustees in one of the mortgages being complainants, and those in other mortgages, with the corporation whose
road was intended to be sold, the defendants. The dissatisfied stockholders and bondholders then filed a bill against the purchaser and the
railroad corporation whose road had been sold, but not making any of the
truste6s or any of the consenting slockholders piarties, charging collusion
in this sale, and praying that it might be set aside, a resale made, and
the money arising from the sale be applied primarily to their benefit.
Held, that the bill was fatally defective for want of proper parties.

from the Circuit Court for the District of Iowa.
Ribon and several others, bondholders and stockholders
in the Mississippi and Missouri Railroad Company, filed a
bill against the Chicago, Rock Island, and Paciflc Railroad
Company, to set aside as collusive and fraudulent a sale
which had been made of the road of the former company
(one which had numerous stockholders, and also numerous
bond creditors, secured by five different mortgages) to the
latter company, through means of an amicable foreclosure
and decree, in which certain persons, trustees in one mortgage given by the latter company, were complainants, and
certain other persons, trustees in four other mortgages given
by the same company, along with the company itself, were
defendants.
The bill alleged an agreement between a company called
the Chicago and Rock Island Railroad Company, and a
majority of the bondholders and stockholders of the Mississippi and Missouri road, by which this latter road should be
sold to the former company, and the proceeds divided among
the bondholders and stockholders of the latter, in a way fixed
upon; that there being several stockholders and bondholders
in the latter company who dissented from this arrangement,
a scheme was devised by the majority of the stockholders, to
which the different trustees under the different mortgages were parties, to carry the thing out in the way above named, and so
cut off those who dissented; and the execution of the scheme
through a sale of the Mississippi and Missouri Railroad to
the old Chicago and Rock Island Company, with a someAPPEAL

RIBON V.

RAILROAD

COMPANIES.

[Sup. Ct.

Case stated in the opinion.

what different organization, and a name so far changed as
-to have the addition of "Pacific."
The bill was filed by the complainants for themselves and
such other dissenting bondholders and stockholders as should
choose to become parties and contribute; and it prayed, as
already stated, that the sale might be set aside; praying
further that the property might be resold under the decree;
that the money arising from the sale be applied, first, to the
payment of the bonds of the complainants and of any dissenters who might come in, and be afterwards applied upon
the stock of the complainants and of any dissenters who
might come in; and praying for other and further relief.
It made both the Chicago, Rock Island, and Pacific company (the company purchasing), and the Mississippi and
Missouri company (the company whose road had been sold),
defendants; but it did not make any of the stockholders through
whose assent the trustees had acted, nor the trustees through whose
act the scheme was charged to have been actually consummated,
parties.
For these omissions, as of indispensable parties, the defendants demurred; and the court below sustained the demurrer and dismissed the bill. Ribon and his co-complainants appealed.
Mr. J Grant, for the appellants, cited Dodge v Woolsey;*
Mr. T. F. Witherow, contra.
Mr. Justice SWAYNE stated particulars of the case, and
delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal in equity from the decree of the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Iowa. The
appellants are the complainants. A brief statement of the
case as presented in the record will be sufficient for the purposes of this opinion.
The Mississippi and Missouri Railroad Company was incorporated to construct a railroad from Davenport, on the
* 18 Howard, 331.

Dec. 1872.]

RiBoN V. RAILROAD COMPANIES.

449

Case stated in the opinion.

Mississippi River, to a point at or near Council Bluffs, on
the Missouri River. It executed five mortgages to secure
different sets of bonds, and issued stock in shares of $100
each, to the amount of $8,500,000. The company built a
part of its roadway, and became.greatly embarrassed. A
large majority in interest of the bondholders and stockholders decided to sell all the property of the company to
the Chicago and Rock Island Railroad Company, or to such
other corporation as that company might designate to receive
the transfer; and in order to pass the title it was determined
to have the mortgages foreclosed and a sale made under the
decree. The :Rock Island company entered into the ar
rangement, and agreed to pay $5,500,000 as the consideration of the sale. Payment was to be made in bonds as spe,
cified in the contract. The majority in interest of the bond
and stockholders of the Mississippi company agreed among'
themselves as to the distribution of the fund. Such proceedings were subsequently had that under a decree in a suit
in equity, wherein the trustees in one of the five mortgages
were complainants, and the trustees of the other four and
the Mississippi company were defendants, a sale was made to
the Chicago, Rock Island, and Pacrfie Railroad Company for
the sum of $2,100,000. Five and a half millions of the bonds
of the purchasing company were nevertheless paid over according to the prior contract, and have been distributed
according to the agreement among themselves, of the majority in interest of the stockholders and bondholders of the
Mississippi company. The Chicago, Rock Island, and Pacific company is in possession of the property so sold to them,
and operating the finished part of the road. It is not denied that the proceedings touching the sale are upon their
face regular and valid.
The-holders of the bonds of the Mississippi company, to
the amount of $185,000 and of six thousand shares of the
stock, refused to become parties to the arrangements and
proceedings of the majority in interest-never assented to
the sale, and did not participate in the distribution of the
proceeds.
VOL. XV1

29

450

RIBON V. RAILROAD COMPANIES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

The complainants are dissenting bond and stockholders.
They filed this bill for themselves and such other dissenters
as might choose to become parties and contribute to the
,costs of the litigation. The prayer of the bill is that the
sale may be declared fraudulent and void; that the property
may be resold under the decree; that the money arising
from the sale be applied, first, to the payment of the bonds
of the complainants and of the other dissenting bondholders
who may become parties, and that the residue be applied
upon the stock of the complainants and of such other dissenters as may become parties, and for other and further
relief.
The appellees demurred to the bill, and assigned for cause,
among others, the want of indispensable parties. The demurrer was sustained, and the complainants not electing to
amend, the court dismissed the bill.
The want of parties is the only point we have found it
necessary to consider.
The rule in equity as to parties defendant is that all whose
interests will be affected by the decree sought to be obtained
must be before the court; and if any such persons cannot
be reached by process-do not voluntarily appear, or from a
jurisdictional objection going to the person in the courts of
the United States, cannot be made parties-the bill must be
dismissed. Where a decree can be made as to those present,
without affecting the rights of those who are absent, the
court will proceed. But if the interests of those present and
of those absent are inseparable, the obstacle is insuperable.
The act of Congress of 1839 and the rule of this court upon
the subject give no warrant for the idea that parties whose
presence was before indispensable could thereafter be dispensed with. The subject was fully considered in Shields v.
Barrow.* What is there said need not be repeated.
The rule that all to be affected by the result must be before the court is subject to certain exceptions. But they
* 17 Howard, 130.

Dec. 1872.]

RIBON v. RAILROAD COMPANIES.
Opinion of the court.

have no application to the case before us, and need not,
therefore, be considered. The rule, as we have stated it, is
well settled in equity jurisprudence.*
In the case before us the two railroad companies were properly made defendants-the Mississippi and Missouri company because it was the mortgagor and the owner of the
mortgaged premises up to the time of the sale, and because
if the sale were annulled its title would be.restored; the
Chicago, Rock Island, and Pacific company, because it was
the purchaser and is in possession of the property under a
claim of title. But the Mississippi and Missouri company
has nothing at stake. It is without means, present or prospective. It has been stripped of all its property and effects,
and only cumbers the ground.
The trustees in the five mortgages which were foreclosed
ahould have been made parties. Their presence as such was
indispensable. If the sale should be annulled they might
be in the situation of the plaintiff who collects a judgment
which is afterwards reversed. He may be called upon to
refund and compelled to do so. A question would also arise
whether the consideration of the agreement under which
the five and a half millions of bonds were paid had not
failed, and whether all the bondholders and stockholders
who participated in the distribution of the proceeds of the
sale should not be required to refund. If either or both
were too numerous for all to be brought before the court,
some might have been made parties in their own behalf and
as the representatives of the, others.t
.Dodqe v. Woolsey et al.,J to which our attention was called
by the learned counsel for the appellants, presents no material points of analogy to the case before us, and affords no
support to this bill in the particular under consideration.
The bill in this respect is fatally defective. We do not deem
* Caldwell v. Taggart, 4 Peters, 190; Story v. Livingston, 13 Id. 359;
Marshall v. Beverley, 5 Wheaton, 313; Coy v. Mason, 17 Howard, 680; Russell v. Clark's Ex'rs, 7 Cranch, 69.
. Story's Equity Pleadings, 7th ed., H 120-121, 128, 131, 132, and notes.
4 18 Howard, 331.

452

KENICOTT V. THE SUPERVISORS.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

it necessary to pursue the subject further. The demurrer
was properly sustained and the bill properly dismissed.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

]KENICOTT

v.

THE SUPERVISORS.

1. A legislative act chartering a railroad company and authorizing the construction of a railroad between certain points, authorized, by its 7th,
8th, and 9th sections, the company to borrow money, and authorized
also a county through which the road chiefly ran to issue its bonds and
provide for their payment by the sale of its swamp and overflowed landsA 10th section proceeded :
"Any county through which said road may run, and every county through
which any other railroadmay run with which this road may lejoined, connected,
or intersected, may, and are hereby authorizedand empowered to aid in the conother road with which it may so connect ; and
struction of the same, or of suchs

for this purpose the provisions of the seventh, eighth and ninth sections of this
act shall extend, include, and be applicableto every such county and every such

railroad."
Held, that this section did not require that the road to be aided should be
actually built before a county was authorized to mortgage its lands'
but, contrariwise, that the aid was intended to be given before the road
was built, and that the counties giving the aid were expected to take
the ordinary risk of the success of the undertaking in which they embarked their property.
2. Where another company was subsequently chartered to build a road, whose
course ran up to one terminus of the road of the company previously
chartered, and thence onwards completely through another county adjoining the county in which the former road lay, and the railroad company first chartered undertook the construction of the new road from
the terminus above mentioned onwards, completely through the other
and adjoining counties; held, that the authority to construct the connecting road, and the entering into a contract for its construction,
formed a "connection" within the meaning of the above-quoted 10th
section.
8. In a bill to foreclose a mortgage given to secure negotiable railroad bonds
with the bonds transferred to a bond fide holder for value, no other or
further defences are allowed as against the mortgage than would be allowed were the action brought in a court of law upon the bonds. Carpenler v. Longan (supra, 271) affirmed.

4. The 7th and 10th sections of the act of the Illinois legislature, of February, 1855, chartering the Mount Vernon Railroad Company, authorized

