284

PIERCE V. CARSKAD0.

LUp. Ct.

Statement of the case.

PIERCE ET AL. V. CARSKADON.
By a statute of West Virginia passed in September, 1863, where a judgment
was rendered against a non-resident in an action in which an attachment was issued, without personal service of a copy of such attachment
upon the defendant, or of process in the suit, and without his appearance therein, such defendant had a right upon returning, or openly
appearing in the State, to have, upon his petition, the proceedings in
the action reheard, and to make his defence as if he had appeared in the
case before judgment. Under this statute a judgment was thus recovered against the defendants in this case in December, 1864, and within
one year thereafter they applied by petition to the State court for a rehearing, but they were not allowed to file their petition because it did
not conform to a statute of the State passed in February, 1865, amending the statute of 1863, and requiring a defendant applying to appear
and defend an action where judgment was rendered, as in this case, upon
publication without personal service of attachment or process, to state
in his petition and verify the same by his oath as a condition of being
permitted thus to appear and defend, that he had not committed certain
designated public offences. Held, on the authority of Cummings v. The
State of Missouri (4 Wallace, 320), and Ex parte Garland(1b. 333), that
the court erred in refusing to receive the petition; that the act of February, 1865, in thus depriving the defendants for past misconduct, and
without judicial trial, of an existing right, partook of the nature of a
bill of pains and penalties, and was subject to the constitutional inhibition against the passage of bills of attainder, under which general designation bills of pains and penalties are included; and, also, that the
statute in question, in thus depriving the defendants of the right they
possessed, for acts to which such deprivation was not previously affixed
by law as a punishment, came within the inhibition of the Constitution
against the passage of an ex post facto law.
ERROR to the Supreme Court of Appeals of West Virginia; the case being thus:
In August, 1864, one Carskadon brought an action of
trespass de bonis asportalis against Pierce, Williams, and
others, in one of the State courts of West Virginia, and at
the same time sued out an attachment against their real
estate; and on the 20th of December, 1864, recovered a
judgment against Pierce and WilliaMs tor $690.
The attachment which gave the court jurisdiction, was
sued out under an act of West Virginia, passed 25th Sep-

Dec. i872.]

:PIERCE V.

OARSKAD01N.

235 .

Statement of the case.

tember, 1863,* which provided in its first section as follows,
viz.:
"When any suit is instituted for any debt, or for damages for
breach of any contract, on affidavit stating the amount and justice of the claim, that there is present cause of action therefor;
or where it is to, recover damages for any wrong, stating a certain sum which, at the least, the affiant believes the plaintiff is
entitled to or ought to recover; that the defendant or one of
the defendants is not a resident of this State, and that the affiant
believes he has estate or debts due him within the county in
which the suit is, or that he is sued with a defendant residing
therein, the plaintiff may forthwith sue out of the clerk's office
an attachment against the estate of the non-resident defendant
for the amount so stated."
The act also provided that when an attachment was returned executed, an order of publication should be made
against the defendant unless he bad been served with a copy
of the attachment, or with a process in the suit; that the right
to sue out the attachment might be contested, and that when
the court was of opinion that it was issued on false suggestions, or without sufficient cause, it should be abated. That
when the attachment was properly sued out and the case
was heard upon the merits, if the court was of opinion that
the claim of the plaintiff was not established, final judgment
should be given for the defendant; but if established, such
judgment should be given for the plaintiff, and the court
should proceed to dispose of the property attached as provided.in the act. The act also provided that if the defendant, against whom the claim was, had not appeared, or been
served with a copy of the attachment sixty days before the
judgment or decree, the plaintiff should not have the benefit
thereof, unless he should give bond with sufficient security,
in such penalty as the court should approve, with condition
to perform such future order, as might be made upon the
appearance of the defendant, and his making a defence.
The attachment sued out in the case was levied on the
Acts of West Virginia, 1863, p. 47-8.

PIERCE V. CARSKADON.

[[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

lands of the defendants, Pierce and Williams; but neither
any copy of the attachment nor any process in the suit was
served on either of them, nor did either of them appear in
the case.
Pursuant to the order of the court made in October, 1864,
publication was made for four weeks of the suit, with notice
requiring the defendants to appear therein within one month
after publication. iNo appearance being had, and proof of
publication being made, the case was, on the 20th of December, 1864, tried before a jury, who assessed against the
defendants, Pierce and Williams, the plaintiff's damages at
$690. The other defendants were found not guilty of the
trespasses alleged. Upon this verdict, judgment was on the
same day rendered by the court for the amount of the damages allowed, with interest until paid, and for a sale of the
attached real property, subject however to the proviso that
before the sale should take place, the plaintiff, or some one
for him, should give bond, with sufficient security, in the
penalty of $1500, conditioned to perform such future order
as might be made upon the appearance of the said defendants and their making defence.
At this time, December 20th, 1864, the act under which
the attachment was issued and the above proceedings were
had, provided in its twenty-seventh section, as follows:
"If a defendant against whom, on publication, judgment or
decree is rendered under any such attachment, or his personal
representative shall return to or appear openly in this State, he
may, within one year, after a copy of such judgment or decree
shall be served on him at the instance of the plaintiff, or within
five years from the date of the decree or judgment, if he be not
so served, petition to have the proceedings reheard. On giving
security for costs, he shall be admitted to make defence against
such judgment or decree as if he had appeared in the case before the same was rendered, except that the title of any bond
fide purchaser to any property, real or personal, sold under such
attachment, shall not be brought in question or impeached. But
this section shall not apply to any case in which the petitioner
or his decedent was served with a copy of the attachment, or

Dee. 1872.]

PIERCE V.

CARSKADON.

Statement of the case.
with process in the suit wherein it issued more than sixty days
before the date of the judgment or decree, or to any case in
which he appeared and made defence."
Within one year from the date of the judgment, the defendants did petition the court to allow them a rehearing of
the cause, but the court refused to allow their petition to be
filed, because the affidavit to the petition did not conform to
the provisions of an act of the legislature of West Virginia,
passed on the 11th day of February, 1865,* amending the
twenty-seventh section, above cited, so as to read as follows:
"rIf a defendant, against whom, on publication, a judgment or
decree has been or shall hereafter be rendered in an action or
suit in'which an attachment has been or may be sued out, and
levied, as provided in this chapter, or his personal representatives, shall return to or openly appear.in this State, he may,
within one year, after a copy of such judgment or decree shall
be served on him, at the instance of the plaintiff, or within five
years from the date of such judgment or decree, if he be not so
served, petition to have the proceedings reheard. Such petition
shall be presented to the Circuit Court of the county in which
the judgment or decree was rendered, and, unless it be presented on behalf of a corporation, shall state the residence of
the defendant at the commencement of the present rebellion,
and at the time such judgment or decree was rendered, the
State of which he claims to be a citizen, and also his ground of
defence against such judgment or decree, and shall be verified
by the affidavit of the party presenting the same. The said petition, when not presented on behalf of a corporation, shall be
accompanied by the affidavit of such defendant or his personal
representative, stating the following facts: First. That such defendant never voluntarily bore arms against the United States,
the reorganized government of Virginia, or the State of West
Virginia. Second. That such defendant never voluntarily gave
aid or comfort to persons engaged in armed hostility against
the United States, the reorganized government of Virginia, or
the State of West Virginia, by countenancing, counselling, or
encouraging them therein. Third. That such defendant never
* Acts of West Virginia, 1865, pp. 20, 21, 22.

PIERCE V. CARSKADON.

[S ap. Ct.

Statement of the case.

sought, accepted, nor attempted to exercise any office or appointment whatever, civil or military, under any authority or
pretended authority hostile to the United States, the reorganized government of Virginia, or the State of West Virginia.
Fourth. That such defendant never yielded any voluntary support to any government, or pretended government, power, or
constitution, within the United States, hostile or inimical
thereto, or hostile or inimical to the reorganized government
of Virginia, or the State of West Virginia; provided, nevertheless, that if the judgment or decree be against several defendants, upon a demand founded on contract, the court may order
a rehearing and permit defence to be made on behalf of all tbe
said defendants, if the petition be accompanied by the affidavit
of any one of them stating the facts above mentioned. If the
petitioner claims to be a citizen of this State, he shall also make
and file an affidavit that he will support the Constitution of the
United States and the constitution of West Virginia, and that
he takes such obligation freely and of choice, without any mental
reservation or purpose of evasion. Upon the filing of such petition and affidavit, a summons shall be awarded by the said
court against the plaintiff or his personal representatives, commanding him to show cause, if any he can, at the next term of
such court, why the defendant, or his personal representative,
shall not be permitted to make defence to such decree, which
summons shall be issued by the clerk of such court, and served
upon the plaintiff, or his personal representative, at least thirty
days before the return day thereof. Upon the return of such
summons., executed, the plaintiff, or his personal representative,
may fle his own affidavit, or that of any other person, denying
any one or more of the facts stated in the affidavit of the defendant, or his personal representative, filed with his petition as
aforesaid, and showing wherein such defendant may have done
or committed any of the acts mentioned in his said affidavit,
and thereupon an issue shall be made by said court and tried
by a jury, as to whether the said defendant has been guilty of
the acts charged against him in said affidavit filed by the plaintiff, or his personal representative, upon which issue the plaintiff shall have the affirmative. If the jury find that the defendant has been guilty of any of the acts so charged against
him, such defendant, his personal representative, and all others,
in any way claiming under, by, or through him, shall forever

Dec. 1872.]

PIERCE V.

CARSKADON.

Opinion of the court.-Opinion of Bradley, J., dissenting.

be precluded from appearing in or making defence against such
judgment or decree or in any manner questioning the validity
thereof; but the court may grant new trials as in other cases."
To the judgment of the court refusing a rehearing the defendants excepted, and the case was removed to the Supreme
Court of Appeals of West Virginia, by a writ of error, upon
the question of the invalidity of the said act of February 11th,
1865, because it was repugnant to the Constitution of the
United States; the ground of the alleged repugnance being
that the act, in depriving the defendants for past misconduct,
and without judicial trial, of an existing right, partook of
the nature of a bill of pains and penalties, and was subject to
the constitutional inhibition against the passage of bills of
attainder, under which general designation bills of pains and
penalties are included; and, also, that the statute in question, in depriving the defendants of the right they possessed,
for acts to which such deprivation was not previously affixed
by law as a punishment, came within the inhibition of the
Constitution against the passage of an ex post facto law. The
Court of Appeals, the highest one in the State in which a
decision in the suit could be had, decided in favor of the validity of the act; and the judgment was now brought here
for review.
Mr.Caleb Bogess, for the plaintiff in error; Mr.B. Stanton,
contra.
Mr. Justice FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.
This case is covered in every particular by the decisions
of this court in Cummings v. The State of Missouri, and in x
parte Garland,reported in 4th Wallace. Upon the authority
of those decisions the judgment of the Supreme Court of
West Virginia must be REVERSED, and the cause remanded
for further proceedings; and it is
SO ORDERED.

BRADLEY, J., dissented from the judgment, on the

PEABODY V. STARK.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

ground that the test oath in question was one which it was
competent for the State to exact as a war measure in time
of civil war.

PEABODY, COLLECTOR, V. STARK.
1. In the absence of a clear, common conviction on the part of all the
members of the court as to the meaning of a direction relating to distillers in one of the internal revenue acts, the court-not holding such
construction as in general obligatory on it-expressed itself content to
adopt, and did adopt accordingly, what was shown to have been the unvarying practical construction given to the direction by the office of the
Commissioner of Internal Revenue from the time that the act went into
effect; such construction being obviously fair to both the distiller and
the government.
2. Held accordingly, that under the 80 per cent. clause in the 20th section
of the act of July 20th, 1868, the distiller is not liable until a survey in
which the tax is assessed has been delivered to him as provided in the
10th section.
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Middle District of
Tennessee.
Stark brought an action in the court just named against
Peabody, collector of internal revenue, to recover back as
illegal a tax. The tax complained of as illegal was a reassessment upon the plaintiff as a distiller, in which he was
assessed to the amount of 80 per cent. of the producing
capacity of his distillery (in pursuance of section 20 of the
Internal Revenue Act of July 20th, 1868),* though he had
not actually made that amount of spirits, and notwithstanding the fact that no copy of the survey of his distillery fixing
its producing capacity had been filed with him, or delivered
to him, as required by section 10 of that same act.
The section of the internal revenue law thus last referred
to requires assessors to make, or cause to be made, surveys
of all distilleries registered or intended to be registered, and
* 15 Stat. at Large, 129.

