WVALKER V. IIENSHAW.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

judgment or decree for the plaintiff or improperly decreed
affirmative relief to a claimant. In such a case the judgment or decree in the court below must be reversed, else
the party which prevailed there would have the benefit of
such judgment or decree, though rendered by a court which
had no authority to hear and determine the matter in controversy.
DECREE IN ALL THINGS REVERSED for the want of jurisdiction in the court below, and the cause remanded with directions to dismiss the case, including the original and amended
informations, and the claims of all the claimants.

WALKER V. HENSHAW.
Prior to the 9th of July, 1858, when the President set apart the surplus of
land which remained after the Shawnee Indians had obtained their complement under the treaty of the United States with them, ratified November 2d, 1854, and opened such surplus to pre-emption and settlement, an Indian of the Wyandotte tribe could not locate "a float" held
by him under the treaties of the United States made with his tribe October 5th, 1842, and 1st of March, 1855.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of Kansas; the case being
thus:
Walker and others brought an action under the civil code
of Kansas to try title to and get possession of a section of
land in Douglas County, Kansas, being "parcel of the lands.
ceded to the United States by the Shawnee tribe of Indians,
by treaty ratified November 2d, 1854,* and lying between
the Missouri State line and a line parallel thereto and west
of the same thirty miles distant."
The condition of these lands, as gathered from the provisions of certain Indian treaties and the laws of Congress,
was as follows:
* 10 Stat. at Large, 1056.

Dec. 1872.]

WALKER V. HENSHAW.

Statement of the case.

By articles of convention, made between William Clark,
Superintendent of Indian Affairs, and the Shawnees, of
Novembdr 7th, 1825, in exchange for their lands near Cape
Girardeau, on the Mississippi, held under the authority of
the Spanish government, the Shawnees had the right to
select 1,600,000 acres of land (a tract equal to fifty miles
square) on the Kansas River, to be "laid off either south or
north of that river, and west of the boundary of Missouri."
By act of Congress of May 28th, 1830, the President was
authorized to make the exchange,* and§ 3. "To assure the tribe or nation .... that the United

States will forever secure and guarantee to them, their heirs or
successors, the country so exchanged with them," and
§ 6. "To cause such tribe or nation to be protected, at their
new residence, against all interruption or disturbance from any
other tribe or nation of Indians, or from any other person or persons whatsoever."
By articles of agreement and convention of August 8th,
1831, the United States agreed to grant, by patent in fee
simple, 100,000 acres of land, to be located under direction of the President, within the limits of the fifty miles
square reserve, provided for by the said treaty of 1825,t and
to guarantee that said lands
"Shall never be within the bounds of any State or Territory,
*

.

and cause said tribe to be protected .

against all inter-

-uption or disturbance from any other tribe or nation of Indians,or
)rin any other person or persons whatever."I
[This fifty miles square reserve was located so as to include the lands in question.]
These arrangements and this treaty, the reader will observe, were with the Shawnee.Indians; and thus things with
that tribe and the United States remained A.D. 1842.
On the 17th of March in the year just named, a treaty
was concluded between the Wyandot Indians and the United
States.§ The 14th article of it was thus:
t

4 Stat. at Large, 412,
7 Id. 857, art. 10.

2.

f 7 Id. 356, art. 2.
11 Id. 583.

WALKER V.

HENSIIAW.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
"The United States agree to grant, by patent in fee simple, to
each of the following named persons [Irwin Long among others]
and their heirs, all of whom are Wyandottes, one section of land,
. . . out of any lands west of the Mississippi [afterwards changed
by amendment to Missouri] River, set apart for Indian use, not
already claimed or occupied by any person or tribe. The lands
hereby granted to be selected by the grantees, . . . but never to
be conveyed by them, or their heirs, without the permission of
the President of the United States."
We now come back to the Shawnees.
The 1,600,000 acres of land granted to them by the treaty
of 1825, subject to the provisions of the treaty of August
8tb, 1831, including the lands in question, remained the
property of the Shawnees until November 2d, 1854.* A
new treaty was then ratified between them and the United
States, by which the Shawnees ceded to the United States
this 1,600,000 acres, and the United States ceded back to the
Shawnees 200,000 thereof, "to be selected between the Missouri State line and a line parallel thereto, and west of the
same thirty miles distant," including the lands in question.
Out of these 200,000 acres, east of the thirty mile line,
were to be carved certain head rights, and set off certain
tracts to be occupied by Shawnees in common and for the
protection of certain absentees; the residue was to be
"Set apart in one body of land, in compact form, under the
direction of the President of the United States, and all such
Shawnees as return to and unite with the tribe within FIvE
years from the proclamation of this treatyt shall be entitled to
the same quantity of land" as their brethren, &c.. ....
"and
whatever portion of said surplus remains unassigned, after the
expiration of said five years, shall be sold as hereinafter provided," &c., the selections to conform to the legal subdivisions
of the survey provided for in article 5.
The fifth article also
"No white person or citizen shall be permitted to make locations
or settlements within the thirty mile limits until after all of the
- 10 Star. at Large, 1053.

t This gave until November 2d, 1859.

Dec. 1872.]

WALKER- V.

HENSHAW.

Statement of the case.

lands shall hav been surveyed, and the Shawnees shall have
made their selections and locations, and the President shall have
set apartthe surplus."
On the 22d of July, 1854, Congress passed an act extending the pre-emption laws over "all the lands to which the
Indian title has been, or shall be, extinguished" within the
Territories of Nebraska and Kansas.*
We now pass back again to the Wyandottes, with whom
the treaty had been made October 5th, 1842.
By a new treaty, now made March 1st, 1855, it was thus
provided in a tenth article:
"That each of the individuals to whom reservations were
granted by the fourteenth article of the treaty of March 17th,
1842, or their heirs or legal representatives, shall be permitted
to select and locate said reservations on any government lands
west of the States of Missouri and Iowa, subject to pre-emption
and settlement, said reservations to be patented by the United
States-in the name of the reservees as soon as practicable after
the selections are made; and the reservees, their heirs or proper
representatives, shall have the unrestricted right to sell an.
convey the same whenever they may think proper."
The lands in question were first opened for settlement, pre-emp.
tion, and sale on the 9th of July, 1858.
So far as to treaties and the date of opening of these
lands to pre-emption, &c. Now as to the facts of this particular case.
The plaintiffs claimed under Irwin Long, the Wyandotte
Indian mentioned in the treaty of 1842, who held a patent
from the United States. In support of this title it appeared
that on the 8th of May, 1857, one Stover, a white man, as
agent for Long, filed in the office of the Surveyor-General
of Kansas and Nebraska a written notice that as such agent
of Long he had on that day selected and located a reserve
of land to which Long was entitled, in pursuance of the two
treaties made by the United States with the Wyandottes on the 5th
of October, 1842, and the 1st of .March, 1855. On this pro* 10 Stat. at Large, 309.

WALKER

V. HENSHAW.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

ceeding a patent-this being the patent under which the
plaintiffs claimed-purporting to convey the lands in pursuance of the said treaties, was issued and duly delivered.
The defendants claimed title by virtue of a pie-emption
settlement of the 28th of July, 1858. In support of this title
it appeared that in February, 1857, one Whaley, being personally qualified, entered upon and made settlement in person, and commenced to improve with intent to pre-empt
and purchase the land; that after making such settlement,
and within thirty days thereafter, he went to the proper
local land office, with intent to file notice of his said settlement and intention to pre-empt, and offered to make such
filing; but that the register of the land office refused to
allow such filing, on the ground that the said land was not
pre-emptable; that in April of the same year he went to the
same office and made the same offer, which was refused by
the register on the same grounds; that on the 30th day of
July, 1858, he duly filed in the office of the register of the
said land office a notice of his settlement on said land, and
of his intention to pre-empt the same, dating the time of his
settlement July 28th, 1858; that on the 5th day of May, 1859,
he purchased the said land, and paid for the same, and took
the usual certificate of such purchase and payment; that on
the 10th day of August, 1860, the said pre-emption and purchase was approved by the Commissioner of the General
Land Office of the United States, and the register of the
local land office was duly notified, by letter of said commissioner, of such approval.
That afterward the said Whaley applied to the register
of said local land office, at his office, for a patent from the
United States to him for said land, and was informed by
said register that said patent had been sent from Washington to said office, and afterwards recalled.
As already said, the land in question was first opened for
settlement, pre-emption, and sale, on the 9th of July, 1858.
The suit being referred to a referee to try the action, he
found as matter of law that up to the 9th of July, 1858, when,
as just mentioned, the lands were first opened for settlement,

Dec. 1872.]

WALKER V. HENSHAW.

Opinion of the court.

pre-emption, and sale, and indeed up to May 5th, 1859, when
Whaley made his payment and purchase, neither plaintifi'q
nor defendants had acquired any title; but that by the purchase and payment then made, an equitable title was vested
in Whaley.

He accordingly found that the defendants were entitled
to judgment, and found further that the plaintiffs should
convey the title to the defendants, &C.
This decision was declared to be right by the Supreme
Court of the State, and the case was now brought here for
review.
Messrs. W. T. Otto and J. P. Usher, for the plaintiffs in error;
Messrs. Thacher and Banks, contra.
Mr. Justice DAVIS .delivered the opinion of the court.
If the land in controversy was iubject to the location of
the Wyandotte float before it was proclaimed open to preemption and settlement, the title of the plaintiffs cannot be
divested by any supposed equity growing out of the preemption of the defendants. If, on the contrary, neither the
plaintiffs' grantor nor the defendants could take any steps
towards acquiring title to the land until the 9th day of July,
1858, when it was first opened to pre-emption settlement,
the defendants having since that date complied with all the
requirements of the pre-emption law, and obtained the usual
certificates of purchase, and the grantor of the plaintiffs
having taken no action on the subject after the 8th day of
May, 1857, are equitably entitled to the land, and the legal
title enures to their benelit.
Whether the one or the other of these categories be true,
depends on the construction to be given several Indian
treaties, which we will proceed to notice.
By the fourteenth article of the treaty with the Wyandotte
nation of Indians, ratified on the 5th day of October, 1842,*
the United States agreed to grant to each of several named
* 11 Stat. at Large, 583.

WALKER V. HENSHAW.

[-Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

persons (among the number Irwin Long), Wyandottes by
blood or adoption, a section of land out of any lands west
of the Missouri River, set apart for Indian use, not already
claimed or occupied by any person or tribe. The privilege
of selecting the lands was conceded to the grantees, but the
power of alienation was denied them, except with the permission of the President.
Another treaty was made with this same tribe of Indians
on the first day of March, 1855,* which conferred on the
reservees, under the treaty of 1842, the right to select and
locate their lands on any government lands west of the
States of Missouri and Iowa, subject to pre-emption and settlement, and the restriction upon alienation imposed in the
first treaty was withdrawn, except as to certain incompetent
persons. The reserve of Long, through whom the plaintiffs
claim title, was located upon the land in dispute, in May,
1857, and the question is, was the location authorized by
either of these treaties? It is contended that the lands were
not, at the time of the attempted location, subject to be
taken under the Long float, because they were then claimed
or occupied by the Shawnee Indians, and this presents the
most important subject of inquiry.
It had been, for a long time prior to the Wyandotte treaty
of 1842, the well-defined policy of Congress to remove the
Indians from organized States, and in execution of this
policy, territory supposed at the time to be too remote for
white settlement, was set apart exclusively for the use of
Indian tribes. It was this policy that dictated the removal
of the Shawnees from Missouri and Ohio, in 1825 and 1831,
to a tract of country in Kansas of large area, ceded to them
by the United States, and embracing the lands in controversy. They held this large tract of land under the protec-.
tion of treaties and acts of Congress, from 1825 to 1854,
when the rapid decrease in their numbers, and the encroachments of the white population, induced the government to
conclude another treaty with them, essentially lessening
* 10 Stat. at Large, 1162.

Dec. 1872.]

WALKER V. HENSHAW.

443

Opinion of the court.

their territorial limits. During this time they were, by express stipulation, assured of protection, not only against interruption or disturbance from any other tribe of Indians,
but from everybody else. In recognition of this guarantee,
the reservees, under the Wyandotte treaty of 1842, although
in pursuance of the policy of the government, confined in
their selections to lands west of the Missouri River set apart
for Indian use, could not appropriate the lands already
claimed or occupied by any person or tribe.
It is apparent, therefore, that Long had no right to locate
his float on the land in dispute, from 1842 to 1854, because
during all this time it was claimed or occupied by the Shawnees. Did the treaty of 1854 with them so alter the condition of things as to render valid the location of this float
in 1857? By this treaty the Shawnee nation ceded to the
United States all the large domain granted to them by the
treaty of 1825, with the exception of two hundred thousand
acres reserved as homes for the Shawnee people, to be
selected within certain defined limits, which included the
lands in dispute. It was contemplated that even this reservation might be more than the wants of this people required,
on account of the paucity of their numbers and the limited
quantity of land assigned to each individual member of the
tribe. Accordingly, piovision was made that the surplus
which remained unassigned after the expiration of five years,
unless sooner ascertained, should be sold by the government
and the proceeds appropriated to the use of the Indians.
During this time the privilege was conceded to the Shawnees of selecting their lands wherever they chose, within the
limits of the reservation. Indeed, until this privilege was
exhausted, the land, in any proper seuse, belonged to them.
In surrendering the larger part of their immense possessions to relieve the government from the predicament in
which it was placed by the advancing tide of white population, they did not part with any right in the lesser part reserved by them as long as the claim of any single member
of the tribe, according to the terms of the treaty, was unsatisfied. If one person could acquire a right to any portion

WALKER

v.

HENSHAW.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

of the lands thus reserved so could another, and in this way
the privilege of free and unrestricted selection would be frittered away. It needed no special provision to secure this
freedom of choice, for without it the treaty could not be
executed. By virtue of the treaty itself these lands were
appropriated to a specific purpose, and whatever interfered
with the accomplishment of this purpose was necessarily forbidden.
It is easy to see that the purpose for which the Shawnees
retained in their own hands the entire reservation could not
be effected, if an entry for location and settlement by any
one else were permitted, for the part thus taken was subject at any moment of time to be chosen for the use and
occupation of the Shawnees. In effect the retrocession by
these Indians of the lands granted to them in 1825 was on
the condition that they should be allowed to select, within a
limited time, out of two hundred thousand acres set apart
for this purpose, a quantity of land equal tb two hundred
acres for each individual member of the tribe. The performance of this condition required, until this time expired,
absolute non-interference by any outside party. On any
other theory of interpretation these Indians, on account of
their helpless state, could not have obtained the lands they
desired. If these views be correct the exclusion, in section
five, of white persons and citizens from making locations or
settlements was not required by the necessities of the case.
They were excluded without it. The clause was doubtless
inserted out of superabundant caution and to satisfy the
misgivings of the Indians, who, from experience, had good
reason to dread the encroachments of this class of people,
notwithstanding treaty stipulations. This experience had
given them no ground to apprehend interference from the
Indians on account of the direct control exercised by the
government over the affairs of all the Indian tribes.
If, however, the government had been able, without difficulty, to protect them against their own race, it had not,
with every effort, been always able to hold in restraint the
ceaseless activity of the white race. It was therefore natural

Dec. 1872.]

WALKER V. HENSHAW.

445

Opinion of the court.

that on this occasion the Sha~wnees should want, although
wholly unnecessary, apositive stipulation against the inlawful intrusion. upon their rights by our own citizens. Indeed, this very case affords an illustration of the quarter
from which trouble has always arisen, for Stover, a white
man located the reserve, and it is a reasonable presumption,
in the absence of any proof on the subject, that he was interested in the location. It is enough to say, without pursuing this branch of the case further, that we agree with the
learned Supreme Court of Kansas, that the latter clause of
the fifth article of the treaty "conferred no right or made
no prohibition which the law would not raise on the treaty"
without it.
If so, the location of Long's float, under the treaty of
1842, was an illegal act, because inconsistent with the existing rights of the Shawnees. These rights were in full force
at the time of the attempted location, and remained in this
condition until the proclamation of the President of the 9th
of July, 1858, setting apart the surplus of lands which remained after the Shawnees had obtained their full complement and opening the lands thus segregated for pre-emption
and settlement.
In no respect has the United States failed to discharge
the obligation incurred by the treaty of 1842 with the Wyandotte reservees. The Indian country to which- they were
invited to go had been defined by Congress,* and they were
told to locate their reserves anywhere within it, provided
they did not encroach on the rights of others. This limitation was not only reasonable in itself, but essential to preserve the faith of the government in its several treaties with
the different Indian tribes. Why thirteen years were suffered to pass without these reserves being located does not
appear, but it is obvious in 1855 they had materially lessened
in value, as before that time the limits of the Indian country,
by legislation and treaty, had been very much restricted.
This restriction imposed on the government the duty of
See 4 Stat. at Large, 729, and acts extending the same.

IRIBON V. RAILROAD

COMPANIES.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

making other provisions for these floating grants, and this
duty was performed by the Wyandotte treaty of 1855. This
treaty, among other things, allowed the reservees to locate
their floats on any government lands west of Missouri and
Iowa subject to pre-emption and settlement, and removed
the restraint upon the power of alienation, imposed in the
former treaty. This action of the government placed Long
and the defendants, as to the lands in question, on precisely the same grounds. Neither party could acquire any
right to them until they were thrown open to pre-emption
and settlement, and both, as soon as this was done, were
at liberty to take them up; Long, by means of his float,
the defendants by reason of their qualifications as pre-emptors; and whoever moved in the matter first would have
the better right. It required, however, positive affirmative action after the lands were declared to be public lands
before any title to them, legal or equitable, could be obtained, and all proceedings attempting to forestall the proclamation of the President were null and void, because in contravention of the treaty with the Shawnees. The defendants,
not relying on their prior settlement in February, 1857, to
protect them, took the proper steps after this proclamation
to perfect their pre-emption, and have performed all the
conditions to which they were subject by the law. They
have therefore a complete equitable title to the land, and as
the patent issued to Long was based on an unlawful entry
it ought to be transferred to the defendants.
There is, in our opinion, no error in the judgment of the
Supreme Court of Kansas, and it is accordingly
AFFIRMED.

IRIBON V. RAILROAD COMPANIES.
A.majority of the stockholders and creditors of a railroad company which
had several mortgages on the road, agreed to sell it for a price offered,
and to divide the proceeds among all the stockholders and creditors in a
way settled on by those agreeing to the plan. Other stockholders and

