OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Syllabus.

214 U. S.

ters are more remote from the water front, and that many
women and children spend the day in that section, and the
opinion is not strained that an undiscovered fire at night might
cause great loss of life in a very high apartment house in that
district. These are matters which it must be presumed were
known by the legislature, and whether or not such were the
facts was a question, among others, for the legislature to
determine. They are asserted as facts in the brief of the
counsel for the City of Boston. If they are, it would seem
that ample justification is therein found for the passage of
the statutes, and that the plaintiff in error is not entitled to
compensation for the reasonable interference with his property rights by the statutes. That in addition to these sufficient facts, considerations of an Tsthetic nature also entered
into the reasons for their passage, would not invalidate them.
Under these circumstances there is no unreasonable interference with the rights of property of the plaintiff in error, nor
do the statutes deprive him of the equal protection of the
laws. The reasons contained in the opinion of the state
court are in our view sufficient to justify their enactment.
The judgment is therefore
Affirmed.

GRAY v. NOHOLOA.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME

COURT

OF THE TERRITORY

OF

HAWAII.

No. 174.

Submitted April 20, 1909.-Decided May 17, 1909.

Which is the correct English translation of a will written in the Hawaiian language is a pure question of fact, and in this case this
court follows its usual course in regard to the findings of fact of both
the lower courts and adopts the translation which both found to be
correct.
The will of a childless testatrix, who lived with her husband in the

GRAY v. NOHOLOA.
214 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

leper colony of Hawaii leaving all her property to her husband, was
rightfully construed as relating to all property whether situated in
that colony or outside thereof, it not being presumed that she died
intestate as to any of her property or that she would limit her
bounty to her husband by omitting any of her property.
18 Hawaii, 265, affirmed.

THE appellant herein appeals from the decree of the Supreme
Court of the Territory of Hawaii. The facts relating to the
case are as follows:
Hikaalani Hobron Noholoa was a resident of the island of
Molokai, Territory of Hawaii, which is called the leper settlement, and was a leper, about seventy-five years of age, at the
time of her death, on or about the twenty-ninth of June, 1906.
Deceased left a husband, who was also a resident of the settlement and a leper, and a niece, the appellant, Kaimiola Nakookoo Gray, also residing on the island, and two grandnieces,
being minors, residing in Honolulu. She left a will, written in
the Hawaiian language, of which the following was taken as
a translation by the courts below:
"I, the undersigned, a leper residing at Kalaupapa, Island
of Molokai, Territory of Hawaii, do make this my Last Will for
all property known belonging to me and appearing in my
name situate at Kalaupapa aforesaid, with good will (or intention,) do hereby bequeath the same as hereinafter described:
One gray horse, one bay mare; one black mare; one frame
wooden house and other houses owned by me, as well as all
other property owned by me, to my husband David Noholoa,
residing at Kalaupapa aforesaid, to him and to his heirs, administrators and executors forever. Renouncing all claims
that my relatives may set up in law to this."
The above will was duly admitted to probate in the Circuit
Court of the Second Circuit of the Territory on the twelfth day
of December, 1906, and, upon petition duly made, the court
granted letters of administration with the will annexed to
Enoch Johnson, who thereupon received such letters and entered upon his duties as such administrator,

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Statement of the Case.

214 U. S.

After the application on the part of the husband for the probate of the will of his wife, and after the filing of the same with
the clerk of the Circuit Court, but before the granting of letters
of administration to Enoch Johnson, as prayed for by the
husband, a petition was filed with the same court by Kaimiola
Nakookoo Gray, the appellant herein, and a niece of the deceased testatrix, in which petition it was averred that the will
of the testatrix, which was offered for probate, did not dispose
of any property other than which was within and at the leper
settlement, and that the testatrix at the time of her death
owned other property outside of the settlement of the assessed
value of several thousand dollars, and it was averred that there
was no person who could lawfully demand settlement of the
people who had possession of the property outside of the
settlement, and therefore the petitioner asked for the appointment of some suitable person as administrator of the estate of
which decedent died intestate, and that due notice might be
given thereof.
Subsequently to the filing of this petition the probate court
duly admitted the will as translated by the court to probate,
and also denied the petition of the niece for letters of administration upon that portion of the land of deceased which she
asserted was not included in the will. The translation of the
will which she put in evidence in her proceeding, was the same
one that was made by the court in the proceeding to admit the
will to probate.
Kaimiola Nakookoo Gray duly appealed from the order or
decree of the probate court refusing to grant letters of administration, as petitioned for, and the appeal was duly argued,
without objection, in the Supreme Court of the Territory upon*
the same translation of the will, and the decree was affirmed.
A motion was then made for a rehearing of the case, and
upon that motion, for the first time, ex parte affidavits were
used on behalf of the appellant in regard to the translation of
the will of testatrix. These affidavits asserted that the translation adopted, and most of it made, by the probate court, and

GRAY v. NOHOLOA.
214 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

adopted by the Supreme Court upon the hearing, without protest or question on her part, was not an accurate translation,
and the following was asserted to be the true translation:
"I, the undersigned, a leper residing at Kalaupapa, Island
of Molokai, Territory of Hawaii, make this my last testament
concerning all chattels known as mine and in my possession, being in Kalaupapa aforementioned; with sane mind I bequeath
all those said goods of mine described as follows, to wit,
"1 Creamed colored horse,
"1 Bay mare,
"1 Black mare,
"1 Wooden house together with certain other houses, and
all other chattels belonging to me, to my husband, David Noholoa, residing at said Kalaupapa and to his heirs and assigns
forever. My heirs shall not have any right to claim these at
law.
"In witness whereof I hereunto subscribe my name this
18th day of November, 1901."
The court refused to accept such translation or to set aside or
correct the translation already made and adopted by it, and
thereupon denied the motion for a rehearing, Frear, Chief
Justice, dissenting.
From the decree of affirmance, Kaimiola Nakookoo Gray
has appealed to this court.
Mr. David L. Withington, Mr. J. Alfred Magoon and Mr. J.
Lightfoot for appellant.
Mr. William L. Stanley, Mr. Clarence H. Olson and Mr.
Henry Holmes for appellee.

Mn. JUSTICE PECKHAM, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
The sole question in this case is whether property which
belonged to testatrix in her lifetime, and was situated outside

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

214 U. S.

of the leper island, or settlement, at the time of her death
passed by her will.
The appellant asserts that the translation of the will, although made by one and adopted by both courts below
without opposition, and offered on her part in this proceeding,
both in the trial court and upon review, is, nevertheless, inaccurate; that the translation which she submitted in her motion for a rehearing, as contained in certain ex parte affidavits,
is the more accurate of the two, and if it were adopted the
original will in such case, as so translated, would not dispose
of any property which belonged to the testatrix at the time of
her death, situated outside of the leper settlement; and, as no
executor was appointed in the will, the petition of the appellant for the appointment of an administrator with the will
annexed as to all outside property of which the testatrix died
intestate should, as she claims, have been granted, and to that
end the order should be reversed.
What is the correct English translation of the original will
in this case, written in the Hawaiian language, is a pure question of fact.
The record shows that Judge Kepoikai, judge of the probate
branch of the Circuit Court, Second Circuit, himself translated,
at least in part, the will now before us for construction. The
record discloses no objection or opposition to such translation,
or any criticism of its accuracy at that time. The Supreme
Court, on appeal, used the same translation, without criticism
or opposition, as had been used by the trial court, and, upon
that translation, affirmed the decree. Mr. Justice Hartwell,
in writing the opinion of the Supreme Court, said: "The original of the will shows more clearly than does the evidently
defective translation that the intention was to dispose of 'also
all the other property known to be mine.' The decedent evidently knew well what her property at Kalaupapa was, and
there is no reason to suppose she did not know of the property
in Honolulu." So that whether the translation adopted by the
court below and the Supreme Court was defective or not, the

COLLINS v. O'NEIL.
214 U. S.

Syllabus.

view of the latter court was that a correct translation showed
the intention of the testatrix to dispose of all her property, or,
as the court said, "also all the other property known to be
mine."
As the two courts below have determined the question of
fact, we follow our usual course in such cases and adopt the
translation of the will which they have adopted.
The legal question then arising is, what did the testatrix
mean by her will? Her intention is to be derived from her
language, and we are of opinion that the lower court was correct in its construction as given to us.
A perusal of the will as translated and adopted by the courts
below leaves us in no doubt that the testatrix's intention was
to give to her husband, not only the property which she left
situated at Kalaupapa, but also all other property owned by
her, wherever it might be situated and whatever it might be.
We do not think she intended to die intestate as to any portion of her property, or to limit her bounty to her husband to
such property only as was situated at Kalaupapa.
The decree of the Supreme Court of the Territory is there-

fore

Affirmed.
COLLINS v. O'NEIL, SHERIFF.

C-

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.

SAME v. THE SHERIFF OF THE CITY AND COUNTY OF
SAN FRANCISCO.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.

Nos. 241, 320.

Argued April 5, 1909.-Decided May 17, 1909.

Where a provision in a treaty or convention is plain it must receive a
reasonable and sensible construction, and not one which it is impossible to conceive that the representatives of civilized countries
would enter into.
VOL. CCXIV-8

