OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Syllabus.

214 U. S.

of the damages, 9,000 Mexican pesos, added to the value of
the land in controversy with any of the defendants, does not
make a sum exceeding $25,000. We think, therefore, that
the writ of error must be dismissed.
It may not be improper to say that if we had jurisdiction on
this writ of error we should find grave difficulty in sustaining
the joint judgment for damages against all the defendants,
if, indeed, we have properly construed it to be joint. But we
have no such jurisdiction, and therefore refrain from deciding
that point. Doubtless, if there is anything in it, some way

may be found, by application to the Supreme Court of the
Philippine Islands, to correct the error, if any exists.
Writ of errordismissed.

WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH COMPANY v. CHILES.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF
VIRGINIA.

No. 168.

Argued April 20, 1909.-Decided May 24, 1909.

Where plaintiff in error, defendant below, in a suit for penalty under a
state law asks and the court refuses an instruction that if the jury
find that the default occurred within a navy yard, over which the
United States had exclusive jurisdiction, the recovery could not be
had under the state law, this court has jurisdiction to review the
judgment.
The Norfolk Navy Yard is one of the places over which, under Art. I,
ยง 8, par. 17 of the Constitution, Congress possesses exclusive power
of legislation, and that exclusive power necessarily includes exclusive
jurisdiction; and it is of the highest importance that the jurisdiction
of the State should be resisted at the border of such places. Fort
Leavenworth R. R. Co. v. Lowe, 114 U. S. 525.
The State cannot inflict a penalty for the non-delivery of a telegram
within the limits of a place under the exclusive jurisdiction of the
United States; and so held that under the statute of Virginia in that
regard the penalty cannot be collected for the non-delivery of a tele-

WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH CO. v. CHILES. 275
214 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

gram to an addressee within the limits of the Norfolk Navy Yard.
Congress alone can prescribe penalties in such a case.
107 Virginia, 60, reversed.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr Francis Raymond Stark, with whom Mr. George H.
Fearons,Mr. Robert M. Hughes and Mr. Rush Taggartwere on
the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr W. D. Stoakley for defendant in error, by special leave.
MR.

JUSTICE MOODY

delivered the opinion of the court.

The defendant in error, a gunner in the Navy, was stationed
on board the U. S. S. Abarenda, which was lying at the Norfolk Navy Yard. A telegram addressed to him aboard the
ship was received for transmission at Richmond, Va., thence
transmitted, so far as appears with due dispatch, to Portsmouth, Va., which adjoins the Norfolk Navy Yard, and is the
place to which telegrams directed to the navy yard are commonly sent. The message was never received by the defendant
in error. He brought this action in the Court of Hustings of
the city of Portsmouth against the plaintiff in error, the telegraph company, to recover a penalty imposed by the laws of
Virginia. The Virginia Code, 1904, pp. 696, 697, after providing for a penalty for failure duly to transmit a message, contains the following provision:
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
"(6)
"It shall be the duty of every telegraph company, upon the
arrival of a dispatch or message at the point to which it is to be
transmitted, to cause the same to be forwarded by a messenger
to the person to whom the same is addressed or his agent, and
upon the payment of any charges due on this dispatch or message to deliver it; provided, such person or agent reside within
the city or incorporated town in which such station is, or that
at such point the regulations of the company require such
delivery.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

214 U. S.

"It shall also be the duty of such company to forward a
dispatch or message promptly, as directed, where the same
is to be forwarded. For every failure to deliver or forward a
dispatch or message as promptly as practicable the company
shall forfeit one hundred dollars to the person sending a dispatch or message or the person to whom it was addressed."
The plaintiff's declaration contained two counts; the first
for failure to transmit the telegram in conformity with the law
of Virginia, and the second for failure to deliver it in accordance with the part of the law just quoted. As there was no
proof in support of the first count, and it was apparently not
submitted to the jury at the trial, it may pass out of view.
The second count, after alleging the receipt of the message
at the point of origin, and its transmission, and receipt at the
office at Portsmouth, avers that it was the duty of the telegraph company to deliver it to the plaintiff on the U. S. S.
Abarenda at the navy yard as promptly as practicable, and
that the defendant failed to perform its duty in that regard,
wherefore it became indebted to the plaintiff for the amount
of the statutory penalty. There was a demurrer to the declaration, and one of the reasons alleged was "that the place
at which the message was to be delivered was on board a
Government vessel, at a yard which is under the jurisdiction
and control of the United States, and neither the State nor
this honorable court has jurisdiction to impose any penalty
for failure to deliver a message at such place." The demurrer
was overruled, and the case was tried before a jury. There
was testimony in behalf of the defendant that seasonably after
the message was received at Portsmouth it was entrusted to
a messenger boy for delivery to the plaintiff on board the ship;
that it was taken to the gangway of the ship, and there, in accordance with the practice in such cases, delivered to the man
on duty at that place, who receipted for it. With the weight
of this testimony we have no concern. It also appeared that
the message never reached the plaintiff. The defendant requested the presiding Judge to instruct the jury, in substance,

WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH CO. v. CHILES. 277
214 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

that if the default in delivery occurred within the limits of
the territory of the Norfolk Navy Yard, plaintiff could not
recover by virtue of the Virginia law, which had no authority
within those limits. The court declined, under exception,
to give this instruction, and the jury returned a verdict for the
plaintiff for the amount of the penalty. There was judgment
for the plaintiff, which, upon writ of error duly raising the
questions which have been stated, was affirmed by the Supreme Court of Appeals of the State. Thereupon a writ of
error from this court was allowed.
Part of the land composing the Norfolk Navy Yard, formerly
known as the Gosport Navy Yard, was once owned by the
State of Virginia. Title to the 'remainder of it was acquired
by the United States by purchase from the owners. Title to
the land owned by the State was acquired by the United
States under the provisions of an act of Assembly, passed
January 25, 1800, which authorized the Governor of the Commonwealth to convey by deed the title to the State land and
"all the jurisdiction which this Commonwealth possesses over
the public lands commonly called and known by the name of
Gosport," reserving only the right of the officers of the State
to execute process within the jurisdiction authorized to be
ceded. The files of the Department of the Navy contain a
deed of Governor James Monroe, dated June 15, 1801, executing in precise conformity with the act the authority which
it conferred. The United States had purchased from the owners other land for the purpose of extending the navy yard.
That purchase was recognized by the State of Virginia by an
act of Assembly, passed February 27, 1833, and the Governor
of the Commonwealth was authorized to cede the same jurisdiction, with the same reservation. The files of the Department of the Navy contain also a deed by Governor Littleton
W. Tazewell, dated April 1, 1835, fully executing the provisions of the last-named act.
The case does not call for the consideration of the effect of
a contract made within the State of Virginia for the seasonable

OCTOB.ER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

214 U. S.

transmission and delivery of a telegram. The record presents
the single question, whether a law of the State of Virginia imposing a penalty has any effect or operation within the limits
of the navy yard. This question, if not fully raised by the demurrer, was distinctly raised by the request for instructions,
which was refused. On one aspect of the evidence it might
have been found that the only default of the defendant was
entirely within the limits of the navy yard, and the defendant
was entitled to an appropriate instruction on the issue thus
raised. By the refusal to give the instruction requested the
jury in effect was permitted to find for the plaintiff, even if the
default was entirely within the navy yard. We think this was
clearly erroneous. By the terms of the Constitution, Congress
is given the power "to exercise exclusive legislation in all cases
whatsoever

.

.

.

over all places, purchased by the con-

sent of the legislature of the State in which the same shall be,
for the erection of forts, magazines, arsenals, dock yards and
other needful buildings." Article I, ยง 8, par. 17, of the Constitution.
It is apparent from the history of the establishment of the
Norfolk Navy Yard, already given, that it is one of the places
where the Congress possesses exclusive legislative power. It
follows that the laws of the State of Virginia, with the exception referred to in the acts of Assembly, cannot be allowed any
operation or effect within the limits of the yard. The exclusive power of legislation necessarily includes the exclusive
jurisdiction. The subject is so fully discussed by Mr. Justice
Field, delivering the opinion of the court in Fort Leavenworth
R. R. Co. v. Lowe, 114 U. S. 525, that we need do no more than
refer to that case and the cases cited in the opinion. It is of the
highest public importance that the jurisdiction of the State
should be resisted at the borders of those places where the
'power of exclusive legislation is vested in the Congress by the
Constitution. Congress already, with the design that the places
Under the exclusive jurisdiction of the United States shall not
be freed from the restraints of the law, has enacted for them

BRYANT v. SWOFFORD BROS.
214 U. S.

Syllabus.

(Revised Statutes, LXX, chapter 3) an extensive criminal
code ending with the provision (ยง 5391) that where an offense is not specially provided for by any law of the United
States, it shall be prosecuted in the courts of the United States
and receive the same punishment prescribed by the laws of the
State in which the place is situated for like offenses committed
within its jurisdiction. We do not mean to suggest that the
statute before us creates a crime in the technical sense. If it
is desirable that penalties should be inflicted for a default in
the delivery of a telegram occurring within the jurisdiction
of the United States, Congress only has the power to establish
them.
Judgment reversed.

BRYANT, TRUSTEE OF NEWTON & CO., BANKRUPTS,
v. SWOFFORD BROS. DRY GOODS CO.
.APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH
CIRCUIT.

No. 172.

Argued April 22, 23, 1909.-Decided May 24, 1909.

In this case, held, that the sale of a stock of dry goods under a contract
by which the articles sold remained the property of the vendor until
paid for, with provision for substitution of other goods and that proceeds of goods sold also belonged to the vendor, was a conditional
sale.
The validity of conditional sales depends upon the law of the State
where made, and in bankruptcy the construction and validity of such
a contract must be determined by the local law of the State, York
Manufacturing Co. v. Cassell, 201 U. S. 344, and the contract in this
case as tested by the law of Arkansas is a conditional sale and is
valid without record.
The trustee has no higher rights in regard to property sold to the bankrupt under conditional sale than the bankrupt had, and in this case
held that the vendor was entitled to the goods unsold and the identified proceeds of those which had been sold.
Where the vendor of goods, sold to the bankrupt under conditional

