OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Syllabus.

214 U. S.

SANTIAGO v. NOGUERAS.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
PORTO RICO.

No. 127.

Submitted April 7, 1909.-Decided May 24, 1909.

By the ratifications of the treaty of peace of 1898 with Spain, Porto
Rico ceased to be subject to that country and became subject to the
legislative power of Congress; but, pending the action of Congress,
and the necessary delay in establishing civil government, there was
no interregnum, and the authority to govern the territory ceded by
the treaty was, by the law applicable to conquest and cession, under
the military control of the President as Commander-in-Chief. Cross
v. Harrison,16 How. 164.
The military authority in control of ceded conquered territory at the
time of a treaty of peace continues, if not dissolved by the Commander-in-Chief, until legislatively changed; nor is there any presumption of a contrary intention from the inaction of the legislature. Whatever the cause of delay in legislation it must be
presumed that the delay was consistent with the true policy of the
Government. Cross v. Harrison, 16 How. 164.
The authority of a military government continued after treaty of peace
ceding the conquered territory, though not unlimited, is of large extent, and includes the power to establish courts of justice. Leitensdor/er v. Webb, 20 How. 176.
The military government in Porto Rico at the time of the ratification
of the treaty of peace continued until superseded by the organic act;
and it had power to establish the United States Provisional Court,
and that court had jurisdiction to render the judgment involved in
this case.
Under the provision of the order establishing the Provisional Court of
Porto Rico that it have jurisdiction of controversies between different states and of foreign states, it had jurisdiction of a controversy between a subject of Spain and a resident of Porto Rico.
The service of the summons in this case by delivering the same at defendant's usual place of abode into the hands of his wife being
strictly in accord with the procedure established by the court, the
court had jurisdiction to enter judgment by default.

SANTIAGO v. NOGUERAS.
214 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

Whether the court lost jurisdiction, after having properly obtained it,
by disregarding rules of procedure is not open in a collateral attack.
2 Porto Rico, 467, affirmed.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. FrancisH. Dexter for plaintiffs in error:
Plaintiffs in error challenge the power of the Provisional
Court and maintain that under the circumstances then existing, considering the. institutions and laws of the United States
and the condition of peace then prevailing, the President had
no power to create such a court. The treaty of peace had been
ratified and the courts of the Island were being conducted regularly and normally, in accordance with the local laws, which
had been ratified and sanctioned by the military government.
Magoon's Reports, p. 13.
Even if the military government had the power on June 27,
1899, to create courts for the trial of all kinds of cases, civil or
criminal, in addition to, or substitution of, ordinary courts
then in existence in the Island, General Orders, No. 88, Series
of 1899, creating the Provisional Court, cannot be construed
to sustain the jurisdiction of said court over the original cases
against which relief is sought. By such order (although vague
in itsterms) the only construction to be reasonably made thereof
is that with respect to civil cases the jurisdiction of the Provisional Court was limited to such jurisdiction as Circuit and District Courts of the United States at the time possessed under
the Constitution and laws of the United States then in force.
The Provisional Court did not have jurisdiction of the cases
complained of, because they were not such as a Circuit Court or
District Court of the United States should have had jurisdiction over. In all of the cases complained of it appears that the
plaintiff was a subject of the King of Spain and that the defendant was a citizen and resident of Porto Rico.
The proceedings in the Provisional Court were in complete
disregard of and in opposition to the Code of Civil Procedure
then in force, and that court had no power to make arbitrary

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

214 U. S.

rules of procedure different from those provided for in the
general law.
Mr. Charles Hartzell and Mr. Manuel Rodriguez-Serra for
defendants in error:
The Provisional Court created by the military governor of
Porto Rico was properly and legally established. See General
Order 101, issued by the President of the United States,
July 13, 1898; General Orders No. 1, issued by the commanding
general of the American army in Porto Rico, October 18, 1898;
The Organic Act for Porto Rico, §§ 8, 33; Glenn on International Law, p. 218; New Orleans v. Steamship Co., 20 Wall. 387;
Downes v. Bidwell, 182 U. S. 244.
The President of the United States, as the Commander-inChief and by virtue of his other attributes of authority, and as
the representative of the will of the Government of the United
States, was in supreme control of, and the authority over, the
Island of Porto Rico from the time of the establishment of the
military occupation in 1898, until the time when Congress, by
means of the organic act, provided the first civil government
for the Island. If this is not true, then where did the authority
lie for governing the Island during that period of time? The
treaty of peace concluded between the United States and
Spain in December, 1898, and ratified and promulgated in
April, 1899, made no provision for the temporary government
of the Island pending the action of Congress in the premises,
the only reference to judicial proceedings being contained in
art. 18, the second paragraph of which provided that civil
suits pending and undetermined at the date of the treaty
shall be prosecuted to judgment before the court in which they
may be pending or in the court that may be substituted therefor. This paragraph of the treaty demonstrates that it was
even then contemplated that new courts might be substituted
by the United States for the determination of actions which
had already been brought and were then pending in the courts
of Porto Rico.

SANTIAGO v. NOGUERAS.
214 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

No power or authority existed for the Government of Porto
Rico after the American occupation, and prior to the passage
of the organic act, except the military power, which had supreme authority in accordance with the authority which we
have quoted, and that the direct recognition of the Provisional
Court by the organic act, and the mandatory provision for
the continuance of pending proceedings in the Provisional
Court to be carried out by the United States District Court for
Porto Rico, which was established by said organic act, must
definitely determine the legal existence and validity of the
acts of the Provisional Court within the scope of its jurisdiction as provided in the general order creating it.
MR.

JUSTICE

MOODY delivered the opinion of the court.

The plaintiffs in error brought in the District Court of the
United States for Porto Rico an action for the recovery of certain parcels of land held by the defendants in error. There was
judgment for the defendants in the court below, and the case
is here upon writ of error. We need pay attention only to such
facts as will make clear the question which we think is decisive
of the case.
One of the plaintiffs once owned the lands in dispute, but
they were sold upon an execution issued upon a judgment
rendered against him by the United States Provisional Court.
The defendants, by mesne conveyances, hold the title conveyed by the execution sale. The plaintiffs attack that title
solely upon the grounds that the United States Provisional
Court had no lawful existence, and if lawfully constituted was
entirely without jurisdiction to render the judgment which it
did, and that for the one reason or the other the judgment is a
nullity everywhere.
The ratifications of the treaty of peace by which Porto Rico
was ceded to the United States were exchanged April 11, 1899.
30 Stat. 1754. The act of Congress establishing a civil government in Porto Rico, passed April 12, 1900, 31 Stat. 77, c. 191,
took effect on May 1 of that year. Between these two dates,

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

214 U. S.

on June 27, 1899, the United States Provisional Court, here in
question, was established by military authority, with the approval of the President, by General Order, No. 88, series of
1899. The parts of the order material here follow:
"I. In view of the existing and steadily increasing legal
business requiring judicial determination, which does not fall
within the jurisdiction of the local insular courts, such as
smuggling goods in evasion of revenue laws, larceny of United
States property, controversies between citizens of different
States and of foreign States, violation of the United States
postal law, etc., etc., and pursuant to authority from the
President of the United States, conveyed by endorsement of
April 14, 1899, from the Acting Secretary of War, and after
full conference with the Supreme Court and members of the
Bar of the Island, a United States Provisional Court is hereby
established for the Department of Porto Rico.
"II. The judicial power of the Provisional Court hereby
established shall extend to all cases which would be properly
cognizable by the Circuit or District Courts of the United
States under the Constitution, and to all common law offenses
within the restrictions hereinafter specified."
"X. In civil actions when the amount in controversy is
fifty dollars ($50.00) or over, and in which any of the classes of
persons above enumerated in paragraph VIII are parties, or in
which the parties litigant by stipulation invoke its jurisdiction,
shall be brought in the Provisional Court: Provided, That in
the determination of all suits to which Porto Ricans are parties,
or of suits arising from contracts which have been or shall be
made under the provisions of Spanish or Porto Rican laws, the
court shall, as far as practicable, conform to the precedents
and decisions of the United States courts in similar cases which
have been tried and determined in territory formerly acquired
by the United States from Spain or Mexico. In all other civil
actions the case shall lie within the jurisdiction of the proper
insular court as now provided by local law."
By paragraph XI, the losing party is afforded an opportunity

SANTIAGO v. NOGUERAS.
214 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

to apply to this court for a "writ of certiorari or other suitable
process to review such judgment or decree." At the time this
order was issued peace prevailed in Porto Rico and the courts
established under Spanish sovereignty were open.
The plaintiffs contend that the military power, acting by the
authority of the President as Commander-in-Chief, does not
warrant the creation of the United States Provisional Court.
By the ratifications of the treaty of peace, Porto Rico ceased
to be subject to the crown of Spain and became subject to the
legislative power of Congress. But the civil government of the
United States cannot extend immediately and of its own force
over conquered and ceded territory. Theoretically, Congress
might prepare and enact a scheme of civil government to take
effect immediately upon the cession, but, practically, there
always have been delays and always will be. Time is required
for a study of the situation and for the maturing and enacting
of an adequate scheme of civil government. In the meantime,
pending the action of Congress, there is no civil power under
our system of government, not even that of the President as
civil executive, which can take the place of the government
which has ceased to exist by the cession. Is it possible that,
under such circumstances, there must be an interregnum?
We think clearly not. The authority to govern such ceded
territory is found in the laws applicable to conquest and cession. That authority is the military power, under the control
of the President as Commander-in-Chief. In the case of
Cross v. Harrison, 16 How. 164, a situation of this kind was
referred to in the opinion of the court, where it said: "It (the
military authority) was the government when the territory was
ceded as a conquest, and it did not cease, as a matter of course,
or as a necessary consequence of the restoration of peace. The
President might have dissolved it by withdrawing the army
and navy officers who administered it, but he did not do so.
Congress could have put an end to it, but that was not done.
The right inference from the inaction of both is, that it was
meant to be continued until it had been legislatively changed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

214 U. S.

No presumption of a contrary intention can be made. Whatever may have been the causes of delay, it must be presumed
that the delay was consistent with the true policy of the Government," pp. 193, 194. And see Leitensdorfer v. Webb, 20
How. 176, and opinion of Mr. Justice Gray in Downes v.
Bidwell, 182 U. S. 244, 345.
The authority of a military government during the period
between the cession and the action of Congress, like the authority of the same government before the cession, is of large,
though it may not be of unlimited, extent. In fact, certain
limits, not material here, were put upon it in Dooley v. United
States, 182 U. S.222, and Lincoln v. United States, 197 U. S.
419, though it was said in the Dooley case, p. 234: "We have no
doubt, however, that, from the necessities of the case, the
right to administer the government of Porto Rico continued in
the military commander after the ratification of the treaty,
and until further action by Congress," citing Cross v. Harrison,
supra.
But whatever may be the limits of the military power, it
certainly must include the authority to establish courts of
justice, which are so essential a part of any government. So,
it seems to have been thought in Leitensdorfer v. Webb, supra.
With this thought in mind, the military power not only established this particular court in Porto Rico, but as well a system
of courts, which took the place of the courts under Spanish
sovereignty, and were continued by the organic act. The same
course was pursued in the Philippine Islands.
By § 34 of the organic act (31 Stat. 77), a District Court of
the United States for Porto Rico was created, and it was provided that the same "shall be the successor to the United
States provisional court established by General Orders numbered Eighty-eight, promulgated by Brigadier General Davis,
United States Volunteers, and shall take possession of all records of that Court, and take jurisdiction of all eases and proceedings pending therein, and said United States provisional
court is hereby discontinued."

SANTIAGO v. NOGUERAS.
214 U, S.

Opinion of the Court.

The record shows that in conformity with this provision the
newly-created District Court of the United States for Porto
Rico issued an execution upon this judgment of the United
States Provisional Court, and the property was sold upon that
execution.
A further contention of the plaintiffs is, that the United
States Provisional Court was without jurisdiction, because the
diversity of citizenship made requisite by the order did not
exist. Assuming, without deciding, that this question is open
at this time, we are of the opinion that the citizenship of the
parties to the action in the United States Provisional Court
was such as to give that court jurisdiction. The plaintiff there
was a Spanish subject and the defendant a citizen and a resident of Porto Rico. Taking the second and the tenth paragraphs into consideration and the classes of persons enumerated
in paragraph 8, which included "foreigners," there can be no
doubt that the case was within the jurisdiction which the order sought to confer. In view of the whole order, we think
that a controversy between a Porto Rican and a Spaniard furnished the diversity of citizenship which the order made jurisdictional. Undoubtedly, one of the main purposes of the establishment of this court was to afford a court where Spanish
subjects could obtain justice against Porto Ricans at a time
when it might be feared that the embers of the old disputes
between Spaniards and Porto Ricans were still aflame.
The plaintiffs, one of whom was the defendant in the action before the United States Provisional Court, further suggest that defendant was not served with process and never
appeared, and that the judgment rendered against him by
default was a nullity. This point does not appear to be pressed
and there is nothing in it. The service was in strict accordance with the procedure established by the court and by delivering a summons at the usual place of abode of the defendant
into the hands of his wife.
The plaintiffs further contend that if the United States
Provisional Court had jurisdiction of the case and the parties,

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Syllabus.

214 U. S.

in some way it had lost it, because in the course of its proceedings it disregarded certain provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure which were binding upon it. But clearly no such question is open on a collateral attack, such at this is, and we need
delay no further upon that point.
There were other questions in the case, which the view we
have taken of it render it unnecessary to consider.
We are of the opinion that the judgment of the United
States Provisional Court was not a nullity and that the sale on
execution, under which the defendants claim, conveyed to
them a good title. As the court below took the same view, its
judgment is
Affirmed.
By agreement No. 128, Santiago v. Gonzalez y Rodriguez;
No. 129, Santiago v. Moscoso; No. 130, Santiago v. Ana Semidey, widow of Antonio Costa, abide the result of this case,
and corresponding judgments will be entered in them.

TUPINO v. LA COMPANIA GENERAL DE TABACOS DE
FILIPINAS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE PHILIPPINE ISLANDS.

No. 148.

Argued April 14, 15, 1909.-Decided May 24, 1909.

Distinct judgments in favor of or against distinct parties, though in
the same record, cannot be joined to give this court jurisdiction.
While in case of joint entry and ouster, where the answer of all defendants takes issue without setting up separate claims to distinct
parcels, and the judgment for recovery of possession is against all
defendants jointly, the measure of appellate jurisdiction is the value
of the whole land, Friend v. Wise, 111 U. S. 797, where there is no
allegation of joint ownership or joint possession, and the controversy
with each defendant relates to a separate and distinct parcel, and
judgment is rendered separately, the measure as to each defendant
is the value of his separate parcel. Tupper v. Wise, 110 U. S. 398.
Nor does this court have jurisdiction in such a case if the judgment

