SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION v. ST. JOHN.
214 U. S.

Syllabus.

White made claim to the entire tract and exercised rights of
ownership over the same. It was necessary for him to adjust
his settlement claim to the lines of the public survey, and in
so doing to include the legal subdivision on which his improvements were placed."
Notwithstanding some conflict in the testimony, there was
abundant to support the findings of the Secretary of the Interior, and, as heretofore stated, such findings of facts are to
be regarded as conclusive in any controversy in the courts.
There was no error in the decision of the Supreme Court of
Idaho, and its judgment is
Affirmed.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION v. ST. JOHN, EXECUTOR

OF WALLACE C. ANDREWS, DECEASED.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.

No. 613.

Argued April 5, 6, 1909.-Decided May 17, 1909.

Qucere: Where a petition to the highest court of the State for rehearing asserts that a Federal question had been set up in the brief and
arguments is simply denied with the statement that no Federal
question had been raised in that court, whether this court has
jurisdiction to review the judgment on writ of error.
This court cannot decline jurisdiction when it is plain that the fair result of a decision of the state court is to deny a constitutional right.
Rogers v. Alabama, 192 U. S. 226.
It is as obligatory upon the courts of a State to give the same full
force and effect to the constitution of another State as it must give
to its judicial proceedings. Chicago & Alton Railroad v. Wiggins
Ferry Co., 119 U. S. 615.
The mere construction, even if erroneous, by a state court of the
statute or, as in this case, of a provision of the constitution of
another State does not deny to it the full faith and credit demanded
by the Federal Constitution,

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Statement of the Case.

214 U. S.

The decision of the Court of Appeals of New York that a statute of
Ohio authorizing the formation of corporations general in terms,
but applicable to a special situation, did not contravene the prohibition of the constitution of Ohio against the general assembly passing
any special act conferring corporate powers, and that a corporation
organized under such a statute could take as legatee, held, not to
question the validity of the constitutional provision and, even if erroneous, such decision did not repudiate the obligations of the full
faith and credit clause of the Federal Constitution and is not reviewable by this court under § 709, Rev. Stat.'
Writ of error to review 191 N. Y. 254, 192 N. Y. 382, 583, dismissed.

THIS is in effect a controversy between the Smithsonian Institution of Washington, D. C., and the Andrews Institute
for Girls, a corporation of the State of Ohio, concerning a will
made by Wallace C. Andrews, a resident of the city, county
and State of New York, who died in that city on April 7, 1899.
Both Mr. Andrews and his wife perished on that day in a fire
in their dwelling house in New York city. Whether husband
or wife died first, is not known. She was twelve years younger
than he. They had no children. The will was executed on
November 12, 1891. After some special gifts, which need not
be noticed, the will provides:
"Fourth: Upon the death of my said wife, I devise and bequeath to the corporation hereinafter directed to be formed,
all the excess and residue of my estate over the sum of five
hundred thousand dollars specified in the third paragraph
hereof.
"Fifth: I direct my executor and executrix as soon as practicable after my decease and during the lives of my said wife
and her said brother or the life of the longest liver of them, to
I In this ease the New York court held: Whether an act general in
form is a mere device to evade a wholesome constitutional provision
[against special acts conferring corporate powers] is largely dependent
upon the special circumstances. If the act relates to persons and things
as a class, and is neither local nor temporary, the mere fact that its
practical effect is special and private does not necessarily prove that
it violates constitutional provisions against special legislation.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION v. ST. JOHN.
214 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

procure under the laws of the State of Ohio, an incorporation
to be formed with proper powers, for the purpose of establishing an institution on the farm known as the Williams Farm,
formerly owned by me and now owned by my wife, fronting
on Erie street, in the town of Willoughby, Lake county, Ohio,
or if said farm be for any cause not available, then on other
suitable premises in the said town of Willoughby, for the free
education of girls and for their support in proper cases during education, with a special view toward rendering them selfsupporting.
"Said institution shall contain, among others, a Sewing
Department, Cooking Department, Designing Department
and Departments of Phonography and Typewriting and other
useful work that would afford the pupils employment in life,
including such new discoveries and inventions as may be made
from time to time tending to enlarge the opportunities for
useful and honorable employment for women, and such as
will aid them in obtaining honorable and independent positions
in life. Such school to be open only to girls between the ages
of ten and sixteen, both inclusive.
"Not exceeding one-tenth of the sum devoted to the said
institution by the fourth paragraph hereof may be used for
the erection of suitable buildings therefor on the said farm, or
in the contingency above specified, for the purchase of suitable
premises in said town and the erection of such buildings
thereon, and the income of the remaining nine-tenths shall be
devoted to the support and maintenance of said institution.
"If, when the said sum shall be received by the said corporation, the one-tenth thereof shall not, in the judgment of the
directors, be sufficient for such erection or such purchase and
erection as the case may be, the whole sum may, in their discretion, be allowed to accumulate until the one-tenth thereof
with its accumulation shall be so sufficient, when such onetenth may be used therefor, while the income of the remaining nine-tenths of said sum and accumulations shall be devoted to the support and maintenance of said institution.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Statement of the Case.

214 U. S.

"The charter of the said corporation shall also provide, if
and so far as may be consistent with law and practicable, for
the management of the said corporation by a board of five
directors, to consist of the Governor for the time being of the
State of Ohio, the Member of Congress for the time being for
the Congressional district embracing said Town of Willoughby,
the Treasurer for the time being of said County of Lake, the
Mayor for the time being of Willoughby, and the said Gamaliel
C. St. John, and for the choice of a resident of Willoughby by
the said Governor as successor to the said St. John as often as
the fifth place shall become or be vacant.
"Sixth: If my said wife shall die before me, then the dispositions provided for in the third and fourth paragraphs
hereof shall take effect upon my death.
"Seventh: I direct my said executor and executrix as soon
as they may deem advisable, but within two years after my
decease, to sell all my real estate and invest the proceeds in
interest paying securities, and as to all my estate I give them
and my trustees power to invest and re-invest the same or any
part thereof, having regard both to income and safety.
"Eighth: In case my intention with respect to the said institution for girls shall because of illegality fail, or become impossible of realization, I then devise and bequeath the sum
intended for it to the Smithsonian Institution at Washington,
District of Columbia, to be devoted to the purposes for which
it was established.
"Ninth: I appoint my said wife executrix and my said
brother-in-law executor of this my will, and neither as such
nor as trustees shall they be required to give security. All the
powers herein granted to them may be exercised by the survivor of them and unless limited to their lives, by their successor or successors in the administration of my estate."
Mrs. Andrews, dying at the same time her husband did, his
brother-in-law, Mr. St. John, duly qualified as executor and
trustee under the will. Thereafter he commenced this suit
in the Supreme Court of New York County, seeking a con-

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION v. ST. JOHN.
214 U. S.

23

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

struction of the will and a determination of the rights of the
Andrews Institute for Girls, the Smithsonian Institution and
the heirs at law and next of kin of the deceased. The Andrews
Institute for Girls, the Smithsonian Institution, Chief Justice
Melville W. Fuller as Chancellor thereof, the Attorney-General
of the State of New York, and the heirs and next of kin of the
deceased, were made parties defendant. At a hearing in a
special term of the Supreme Court of the county of New York
it was held that "the defendant, the Andrews Institute for
Girls, is entitled to the residuary estate of the said Wallace C.
Andrews, deceased, together with the income thereof which
has accrued since the death of said deceased, after paying
the expenses of administration," and also that the defendant,
the Smithsonian Institution, has no interest in the estate of the
said Wallace C. Andrews, deceased. This decision was sustained by the Appellate Division of the First Department,
and thereafter with a slight modification by the Court of Appeals of the State, which remitted the record of the Supreme
Court of New York city, where the final judgment was entered.
Thereupon that judgment was brought here on a writ of error
by the Smithsonian Institution and its Chancellor.
The defendants filed a motion to dismiss, which was postponed until the final hearing and, the case is now before us on
such final hearing and motion to dismiss.
Mr. Frank W. Hackett and Mr. Edmund Wetmore for plaintiffs in error:
The Federal question herein was properly and seasonably
raised.
That a state court holds that the Federal question was not
raised is not conclusive. This court will look into the record
and judge for itself what was the fact. It may find that the
state court has ignored a claim of constitutional right. Such
action is the equivalent of denying the Federal right. Des
Moines Nay. Co. v. Homestead Co., 123 U. S. 552; Chapman v.
Goodnow, 123 U. S. 540; Rogers v. Alabama, 192 U. S. 230.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

214 U. S.

Our affidavit forming a part of the papers upon which the
Court of Appeals deliberated sets forth in detail the circumstances of our claiming the right in our brief as well as upon
the oral argument. There can be no question that the character of the constitutional right asserted was brought to the
knowledge of the court and it is obvious that the court denied
it. Although the court says that no Federal question was
raised, it is apparent that this can be nothing more than the
expression of a view entertained by the court of the facts as
they had occurred. It is enough to say that even had the court
failed to perceive the true character of our claim at the hearing,
it was later fully explained in our affidavit, so that there would
appear to be no justification for the conclusion announced by
the court as to the fact of our raising a Federal question.
This court must judge for itself of the true nature and effect
of the order relied upon. Great West. Tel. Co. v. Purdy, 162
U. S. 335.
A right may be specially set up and claimed, though not in
terms stated to be a right claimed under the Constitution.
Tilt v. Kelsey, 207 U. S. 51.
Where the Federal question is raised for the first time in the
Supreme Court of a State and that court takes no notice of it,
in its opinion, if this court sees that the question was in fact
raised, it will take jurisdiction. Arrowsmith v. Harmoning,
118 U. S. 194.
The settled practice of this court is to look into the record
in order to ascertain whether in fact there was presented to the
State court a claim of a constitutional right. McCullough v.
Virginia, 172 U. S. 117.
The benefit of claiming the protection of the Constitution is
not dependent upon an adherence to technical form. It is
sufficient if it appear from the record that the right was especially set up or claimed in such a manner as to bring it to the
attention of the court. Chicago & Burlington R. R. v. Chicago,
166 U. S. 231; Mo., Kan. &c. Ry. Co. v. Elliott, 184 U. S. 534.
The New York Court of Appeals denied a right claimed by

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION v. ST. JOHN.
214 U. S.

Argument for Defendants in Error.

the Smithsonian Institution under the Constitution of the
United States. It gave no faith and credit to the prohibition
in the Ohio constitution against passing special acts conferring corporate powers.
Had the Court of Appeals heeded that prohibition it must
necessarily have found that the gift to the Andrews Institute
had failed for illegality and by the operation of the alternative
bequest, went to the Smithsonian Institution.
That court sustained the constitutionality of the act of 1902
against the objection of plaintiffs in error that it fixed an arbi-trary standard in order to suit this Andrews will. The Federal
question was raised upon a further and different point as follows:
The testator required certain restrictions to go into the charter. Plaintiffs in error contended that the Andrews Institute
as now incorporated is not the incorporation the testator intended, because these restrictions are not in the charter. Anticipating a holding that the effect of copying the will into the
articles was to give efficacy to such restrictions, plaintiffs in
error contended that if the court should so hold it would convert the act into a special act conferring corporate powers.
The court did so hold without paying attention to the Ohio
constitution and thus denied full faith and credit to that constitution.
Mr. James W. Hawes, Mr. Virgil P. Kline and Mr. Harold
Nathan for defendants in error. Mr. Hawes for defendant in
error St. John:
Where the record discloses that if a question has been raised
and decided adversely to a party claiming the benefit of a proVision of the Constitution or laws of the United States, another
question, not Federal, has also been raised and decided against
such party, and the decision of the latter question is sufficient,
notwithstanding the Federal question, to sustain the judgment, this Court will not review the judgment. Jenkins v.
Loewenthal, 110 U. S. 222; Crescent City Co. v. Butcher's Union, 120 U. S. 141, 156, 157; Eustis v. Bolles, 150 U. S. 361;

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

214 U. S.

Hammond v. Conn. Life Ins. Co., 150 U. S. 633; Mo. Pac. Ry.
Co. v. Fitzgerald, 160 U. S. 556; Harrisonv. Morton, 171 U. S.
38; Leathe v. Thomas, 207 U. S. 93; Arkansas So. R. R. Co. v.
German Bank, 207 U. S. 270; Vandalia R. R. Co. v. South
Bend, 207 U. S. 359; Elder v. Wood, 208 U. S. 226, 233.
Assuming that a Federal question was involved in this case,
no Federal question was raised by plaintiffs in error prior to
their motion for a reargument; and as the Federal question was
not considered and acted upon by the Court of Appeals upon
that motion, the raising of the Federal question came too late.
McMillan v. Ferrum Mining Co., 197 U. S. 343; Disconto Gesellschaft v. Umbreit, 208 U. S. 570; Paraisov. United States,
207 U. S. 368; Harding v. Illinois, 196 U. S. 78, 84.
No Federal question is involved in this case.
The courts of New York nowhere denied or questioned the
validity of the constitutional provision of Ohio, but recognized
its existence and force in their opinions, admitted it in evidence
and expressly found it as a matter of fact.
It is only when the power to enact a statute, as it is by its
terms or is made to read by construction, is fairly open to denial and denied, that the validity of such statute is drawn in
question. Balt. & Pot. R. R. Co. v. Hopkins, 130 U. S. 210,
224; United States v. Lynch, 137 U. S., 280, 285.
When in the courts of a State the validity of a statute of
another State is not drawn in question, but only its construction, no Federal question arises. Allen v. Alleghany Co.,
196 U. S. 458; Glenn v. Garth, 147 U. S. 360. See also: Johnson v. New York Life Ins. Co., 187 U. S. 491; Hamblin v.
Western Land Co., 147 U. S. 531; New Orleans Water Works
Co. v. Louisiana, 185 U. S. 336; Sawyer v. Piper, 189 U. S.
154; Lloyd v. Matthews, 155 U. S. 222, 228.
In addition to the above, the following separate briefs were
filed herein: By Mr. Harold Nathan in behalf of defendants
in error Norman C. Andrews et al.; by Mr. Henry M. Earle in
behalf of defendant in error Edith A. Logan; by Mr. Virgil P.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION v. ST. JOHN.
214 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Kline, Mr. Henry Wollman and Mr. Sheldon H. Tolles on behalf of the Andrews Institute for Girls; and by Mr. William S.
Jackson, Attorney-General of the State of New York. Mr.
Edward R. O'Malley, who succeeded Mr. Jackson as AttorneyGeneral of the State of New York, also filed a brief herein.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER, after making the foregoing state-

ment, delivered the opinion of the court.
It is difficult to spell out from the record in this case the
decision of any question arising under the Constitution and
laws of the United States. Neither in the pleadings nor in the
opinions is there a direct reference to any special provision of
the Federal Constitution. It is true that after the decision
by the Court of Appeals an affidavit was filed by one of the
counsel for plaintiffs in error in support of a petition for a
rehearing, stating that in the brief, as well as upon the oral
argument in that court, a Federal question (describing it)
had been presented and discussed, which petition was denied
by the Court of Appeals in these words:
"Ordered, that the said motion be and the same hereby is
denied, with ten dollars costs, no Federal question having
been raised in this court."
It is unnecessary to determine whether this of itself is sufficient to give jurisdiction to this court. The language of the
Court of Appeals may be construed as denying that any such
matter was brought to its attention as stated in the affidavit,
or as holding that it presented no Federal question. Mallett v.
North Carolina,181 U. S. 589; M., K. & T. Ry. Co. v. Elliott,
184 U. S. 530; Leigh v. Green, 193 U. S. 79; McKay v. Kalyton,
204 U. S. 458.
Counsel further contend that there was necessarily involved
in the decision of the case the determination of a question
arising under the Constitution and laws of the United States,
and that hence this court has jurisdiction of this writ of error,
even if the question was not formally referred to by counsel

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

214 U. S.

or the state courts. Chapman v. Goodnow, 123 U. S. 540-548;
Navigation Company v. Homestead Company, 123 U. S. 552;
McCullough v. Virginia, 172 U. S. 102, 117; M., K. & T. Ry.
Co. v. Elliott, 184 U. S. 530, 534; Rogers v. Alabama, 192 U. S.
226, 230, in which last case it is said:
"It is a necessary and well-settled rule that the exercise of
jurisdiction by this court to protect constitutional rights cannot be declined when it is plain that the fair result of a decision
is to deny the rights. . . . There can be no doubt that
if full faith and credit were denied to a judgment rendered in
another State upon a suggestion of want of jurisdiction, without evidence to warrant the finding, this court would enforce
the constitutional requirement. See GermanSavings Society v.
Dormitzer, ante, p. 125."
The question upon which counsel rely arises upon Article
IV, § 1, of the Federal Constitution, which reads:
"Full faith and credit shall be given in each State to the
public acts, records, and judicial proceedings of every other
State. And the Congress may by general laws prescribe the
manner in which such acts, records and proceedings shall be
proved, and the effect thereof."
It is not pretended that any judgment of the State of Ohio
was disregarded by the courts of New York, but it is contended
that full force and effect was not given to the constitution of
the State of Ohio. This duty is as obligatory as the similar
duty in respect to the judicial proceedings of that State. Town
of South Ottawa v. Perkins, 94 U. S. 260, 268; Chicago & Alton
Railroad Company v. Wiggins Ferry Company, 119 U. S. 615,
622, in which Mr. Chief Justice Waite said:
"Without doubt the constitutional requirement, art. IV,
sec. 1, that 'full faith and credit shall be given in each State
to the public acts, records, and judicial proceedings of every
other State,' implies that the public acts of every State shall
be given the same effect by the courts of another State that
they have by law and usage at home. This is clearly the logical result of the principles announced as early as 1813 in Mills

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION v. ST. JOHN.
214 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

v. Duryee, 7 Cranch, 481, and steadily adhered to ever since."
Hancock National Bank v. Farnum, 176 U. S. 640, 642.
On the other hand, it is settled that the mere construction
by a state court of the statute of another State, without
questioning its validity, does not deny to it the full faith and
credit demanded by the constitutional provision. Glenn v.
Garth, 147 U. S.360; Lloyd v. Matthews, 155 U. S. 222; Banholzer v. New York Life Insurance Company, 178 U. S. 402;
Johnson v. New York Life Insurance Company, 187 U. S.491;
Finney v. Guy, 189 U. S. 335; Allen v. Alleghany Company,
196 U. S.458.
In the light of these decisions we pass to consider the particular question presented. Sections 1 and 2 of article 13 of the
Ohio constitution read:
"SEc. 1. The general assembly shall pass no special act
conferring corporate powers.
"SEC. 2. Corporations may be formed under general laws;
but all such laws may, from time to time, be altered or repealed."
By § 3235, 2 Bates's Ann. Ohio Statutes (6th ed.), p. 1836,
it is provided: "Corporations may be formed in the manner
provided in this chapter for any purpose for which individuals
may lawfully associate themselves, except for carrying on
professional business;" and immediately following this section
are those naming the conditions and methods of incorporation.
After the death of the testator, and on March 19, 1902, the
general assembly of the State of Ohio passed an act (Laws
1902, p. 61), the first section of which is as follows:
"SEC. 1. Whenever, by the last will and testament of anyperson which has heretofore been, or shall hereafter be, duly
admitted to probate in this State or elsewhere, any decedent
has devised or bequeathed, or may devise or bequeath, his
or her property, or any portion thereof, for charitable uses
within this State, or for the establishment and maintenance
of any industrial or educational school or institution to be
located at any place within this State; and whenever, in any

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

214 U. S.

such will and testament it has been, or may be, provided that
the executor or executors thereof shall organize a corporation
under the laws of this State for the purpose of receiving the
property so devised or bequeathed, and carrying out the charitable purposes in such will expressed, or establishing and
maintaining the institution or school therein provided for, and
such will further provides for the management of such corporation by a board of trustees or directors, consisting, in part, of
officials of this State, of the county in which such charities
are to be administered or such institution or school located, the
officials of any municipal incorporation in said county, and
the member of Congress for the district of which said county
forms a part, or any of such officials, and names any other
person or persons to be associated with said officials or any of
them, and provides for the appointment of a successor or
successors to the person or persons so appointed to act with
such officials in any manner specified in said will, such executor
or executors, or his or their successors in office, and the persons
hereinafter named, may constitute themselves a body corporate, with the general powers of benevolent incorporations."
The second section requires that a copy of the will or testament, for the carrying out of the provisions of which the corporation is organized, shall be set forth in the articles of incorporation. Thereafter the Andrews Institute for Girls was
incorporated, containing, as required by § 2, the will of the
testator. Now it is contended by counsel for the plaintiffs in
error that this act was a special act conferring corporate
powers, and that therefore it and the incorporation made under
it was in conflict with the constitution of Ohio. It is not
suggested that there has been any decision of the courts of
Ohio in reference to the validity of the act or subsequent incorporation of the Andrews Institute, but it is insisted that it
is so obvious that the act is a special act conferring corporate
powers, inasmuch as the terms of the will of an individual are
the basis of the act and the incorporation that the courts of

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION v. ST. JOHN.
214 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

New York could not have given force and effect to the prohibitions of the constitution of Ohio. Nevertheless, whether
rightly or wrongly, the New York courts held that there was
no violation of the constitution of Ohio, the Court of Appeals
saying in its opinion:
"At the death of the testator the general statutes of Ohio
provided that corporations might be formed for any purpose
for which individuals might lawfully associate themselves,
except for carrying on professional business. 2 Bates's Ann.
Ohio Statutes (6th ed.), p. 1836.
"Subsequent to the death of the testator and in March,
1902, an act was passed by the general assembly of the State
of Ohio entitled 'An act to provide for the administration of
charitable trusts in certain cases.' If we assume that such act
was passed to aid in the incorporation of the Andrews Institute for Girls, it is not necessarily unconstitutional for that
reason. It is not an uncommon thing in any State for questions to arise making it desirable or perhaps necessary for
further general legislation to enable persons interested to
carry out desired and desirable measures. The fact that
such further general statute is passed to aid a particular person for the time being does not make the act a special, as
distinguished from a general one. Whether an act, general in
form, is a mere device to evade a wholesome constitutional
provision is largely dependent upon the special circumstances
of each case. If the act relates to persons, places and things
as a class, and is neither local nor temporary, the mere fact
that its practical effect is special and private does not necessarily prove that it violates constitutional provisions against
special legislation. Matter of N. Y. El. R. R. Co., 70 N. Y.
327-344; In the Matter of Church, 92 N. Y. 1; Matter of Henneberger, 155 N. Y. 420, 426; People v. Dunn, 157 N. Y. 528;
Kittinger v. Buffalo Traction Co., 160 N. Y. 377; People ex Tel.
Clauson v. Newburgh & S. Planc Road Co., 86 N. Y. 1; Matter
of N. Y. & L. I. Bridge Co., 148 N. Y. 540; Waterloo W. M.
Co. V. Shanahan, 128 N. Y. 341; Ferguson v. Ross, 126 N. Y.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

214 U. S.

459; Sun P. & Pub. Association v. Mayor &c. of N. Y., 152
N. Y. 257.
"The act so passed by the general assembly of the State of
Ohio in 1902 would not seem to be in violation of the constitution of that State. Platt v. Craig, 66 Ohio St. 75; State ex rel.
v. Spellmire, 67 Ohio St. 77; Gentsch v. State of Ohio, 71 Ohio
St. 151; Cinn. Street R. R. Co. v. Horstman, 72 Ohio St. 93;
State of Ohio v. Sherman, 22 Ohio St. 411.
"Subsequent to the death of the testator, and on the 8th
day of May, 1902, 'The Andrews Institute for Girls' was incorporated pursuant to the laws of the State of Ohio 'for the
purpose of receiving the property devised and bequeathed in
and by the wills of Wallace C. Andrews and Margaret M. St.
John Andrews, late of the city and State of New York, to the
corporation therein directed to be formed and for the purpose
of carrying out the charitable purposes in such wills expressed,
and of establishing and maintaining the institution therein
provided for.'
"The articles of incorporation include a complete copy of
the will of the testator and also of the will and codicil of
Margaret M. St. John Andrews. They also provide that the
corporation shall be located in the town of Willoughby, Ohio,
and name as members of the corporation the persons proposed
in the will of said testator, together with two other persons in
the State of Ohio, which persons so named constitute the
board of directors for the administration and management of
the property and trust or other funds of the corporation, and
for the control and management of said institution. Said act
of the general assembly of the State of Ohio among other
things provides: 'The attorney-general of the State of Ohio
shall in his official capacity have power to bring proceedings
in any court of record and enforce any such devise or bequest
whenever he deems such action necessary for the protection
and carrying out of the purposes named in said last will and
testament without waiting for the organization of such corporation.'"

MERCHANTS NAT'L BANK
214 U. S.

v. UNITED STATES.

33

Syllabus.

That there is some foundation for the conclusion reached
by the Court of Appeals is obvious from the opinions of the
Supreme Court of Ohio, cited in the foregoing quotation. It
is unnecessary to hold that there was no error in the ruling
of the Court of Appeals. It is enough for the purposes of this
case to hold that that court did not question the validity of
any provision of the constitution of the State of Ohio, and
did not sustain any act or incorporation which it held to be in
conflict with such provision. At most, there was simply a
matter of error and not a repudiation of the obligations of the
Federal Constitution.
We do not see that any provision of the Federal Constitution
has been violated, and the writ of error is
Dismissed.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE

did not hear the arguments and took no

part in the decision of this ease.

MERCHANTS NATIONAL BANK OF BALTIMORE v.
UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 20.

Argued March 12, 15, 1909.-Decided May 17, 1909.

Where two sections of the Revised Statutes when taken together are
not free from ambiguity and cannot be harmoniously applied,
recourse may be had to legislation prior to the Revised Statutes
from which the provisions of those sections were drawn in order to
arrive at the correct meaning. Hamilton v. Rathbone, 175 U. S. 418,

and

Bate Refrigerating Co. v. Sulzberger, 157 U. S. 1, distinguished.

Sections 5214 and 3411, Rev. Stat., cannot be so construed together,
and effect given to both, as to leave a national bank liable to the
duty imposed by § 5214 and yet entitle it to the exemption provided by § 3411 under the contingency stated therein.
The provisions in § 3411, Rev. Stat., exempting banks from taxation

voL. ccxIv-3

