OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Syllabus.

214 U. S.

EXPANDED METAL COMPANY v. BRADFORD.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE THIRD
CIRCUIT.

GENERAL FIREPROOFING COMPANY v. EXPANDED
METAL COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SIXTH
CIRCUIT.

Nos. 66, 606.

Argued March 18, 19, 1909.-Decided June 1, 1909.

The writs of certiorari in these cases bring conflicting decisions of the
Circuit Courts of Appeal to this court for review.
The patent involved in this case shows a method for expanding metal
consisting of two operations, which when combined produce a new
and useful result covered by the claim allowed; and this result,
when read in connection with the specifications, shows substantial
improvement in the art of making expanded metal work.
A new combination of elements, though old in themselves, which produces a new and useful result, entitles the inventor to the protection
of a patent. Loom Co. v. Higgins, 105 U. S. 580.
While the mere function or effect of the operation of a machine cannot
be the subject-matter of a patent, a method of doing a thing so
clearly indicated that those skilled in the art can avail themselves of
mechanism to carry it into operation can be the subject-matter of a
patent. Cochranev. Deener, 94 U. S. 780.
A process and an apparatus by which it is performed are distinct things.
They may be found in one patent; they may be the subject of different patents. Leeds & Catlin v. Victor Talking Machine Co., 213
U. S. 301.
An invention or discovery of a process or method involving mechanical operation and producing a new and useful result, such as expanding metal, may, and in this case does, entitle the inventor to a patent,
and such a process is not limited to those showing chemical action
or elemental changes. Risdon Locomotive Works v. Medart, 158
U. S. 68, distinguished.

EXPANDED METAL CO. v. BRADFORD.
214 U. S.

Argument for the Expanded Metal Co.

In this case, held, that the Golding patent No. 547,242 for the process
of expanding metal was a substantial improvement of the art involving mechanical operations and producing a new and useful result
independently of particular mechanisms for performing such process,
and is valid.
157 Fed. Rep. 564, reversed; 164 Fed. Rep. 849, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the validity of certain letters
patent of the United States, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Ernest Howard Hunter for the Expanded Metal Co.,
petitioner in No. 66 and respondent in No. 606:
The general question involved in these cases is that of the
patentability of processes which consist of mechanical steps
or operations only; the specific question is whether the improvement in the art or method of making expanded sheet
metal described and claimed in Golding's patent No. 527,242,
dated October 9, 1894, is a new and useful invention, and
susceptible as such of protection under the patent laws. "Expanded sheet metal," or "expanded metal," as first suggested, as a possibility, and described in earlier patents was
merely an idea of the possibility and desirability of such material as a commercial article, and the method of production,
which the earlier patents disclosed, was commercially impracticable, and such metal was never practically or commercially
produced according to it.
"Expanded metal," as a commercial product, capable of
use in the industrial arts, was originated by the complainant's
patentee, Golding, and one Durkee, under the process described in letters patent No. 320,242, dated June 16,,1885. It
was then first commercially and practically produced, became
known as "expanded metal" and became extensively used
and recognized as a new commercial article; but although
commercially successful to some extent it was limited and restricted in its uses by the inherent defects of the process by
which it was produced. So great were these defects that some
of the companies, both here and abroad, where Golding had

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for the Expanded Metal Co.

214 U. S.

introduced his method, failed to achieve commercial success
for about ten years until the improvement in the art described
in the patent in suit. This improvement was a radical departure from the former method employed by the patentee.
By it the deficiencies and limitations were entirely removed,
and the character of the metal was so greatly improved that
its adaptability and availability for commercial use were
greatly extended. In fact this new process as described in the
patent in suit, revolutionized the art of expanding sheet metal,
and resulted in its being widely and generally adopted for industrial purposes throughout the world.
The patentee's invention consisted in a combination of certain operations in a certain relation to one another and to the
material acted upon, by which a new result might be accomplished. The instrumentalities, which might be employed to
carry out that invention commercially, were no part of the invention. What the patentee gave to the world was a new
method of manipulating or cutting, bending and stretching
sheet metal, to produce the thing known as expanded metal.
That new method did not depend upon any particular instruments, it could be carried out by anyone by such instruments
as might be found best adapted to the purpose. A dozen
different machines might be created for carrying out the process; in fact, several different machines have been created.
Old machines might be reorganized and made to do the work.
Instruments must be used to apply it to practice, but the
invention must reside in the method and not in the instruments.
The patent laws require that a patentee shall explain his invention in a manner sufficiently clear to enable those skilled
in the art to understand it. If the invention is a machine,
then the machine must be described sufficiently to enable those
skilled in the art to build and operate the machine; if the invention is a process, consisting, as a process must, merely in
the performance of certain operations upon an article or substance, independently of the particular instruments employed,

EXPANDED METAL CO. v. BRADFORD.
214 U. S.

Argument for the Expanded Metal Co.

then the patentee must describe the performance of those
operations sufficiently to enable those skilled in the art to practice them, leaving to such persons the choice of the instruments used for the purpose.
The real defense is: that, even though Golding had invented
a new and useful method which was not a machine or a manufacture or a composition of matter, it was not susceptible of
protection under the patent laws, because it was a process or
method which consisted of mechanical operations and did not
involve chemical reactions or elemental changes, relying on
Risdon Iron & Locomotive Works v. Medart, 158 U. S. 68, but
that case is not in point. As to this see Westinghouse v. Boyden
Power Brake Co., 170 U. S. 537; Carnegie Steel Co. v. Cambria
Iron Co., 185 U. S. 403; Simonds Rolling Machine Co. v.
Hathorn Mfg. Co., 90 Fed. Rep. 201; Melvin v. Thos. Potter
Sons & Co., 91 Fed. Rep. 151; Kahn v. Starrells, 135 Fed. Rep.
532; Thomas & Sons Co. v. Electric Porcelain Co., 111 Fed.
Rep. 923; Baker Lead Mfg. Co. v. National Lead Co., 135 Fed.
Rep. 546; Kirchberger v. American Acetylene Burner Co., 124
Fed. Rep. 764; American Tube Works v. Bridgewater Iron Co.,
132 Fed. Rep. 16; Shepard v. Excelsior Furnace Co., 137 Fed.
Rep. 399; J. R. Williams Co. v. Miller DuBrul & Peters, 107
Fed. Rep. 290; Peters v. Union Biscuit Co., 120 Fed. Rep. 679;
In re Weston, 94 0. G. 1786; S. C., 17 App. D. C. 431; In re
Wagner, 105 0. G. 1783; S. C., 22 App. D. C. 267; Ex parte
Patterson, 116 0. G. 2533.
The doctrine that processes involving mechanical operations,
as distinguished from chemical reactions or elemental changes,
are unpatentable, is foreign to the patent jurisprudence of
other nations. Boulton v. Bull, Davies' Pat. Cases, 162; King
v. Wheeler, 3 Barn. & Ald. 350; Boulton & Watt v. Bull, 2 H.
Bl. 493; Jones v. Pearce, 1 Web. Pat. Cases, p. 123; Russell v.
Cowley, 1 Web. Pat. Cases, 459; Walton v. Potter, 1 Web. Pat.
Cases, 585; Gibson v. Brand, 1 Web. Pat. Cases, 627; Reynolds
v. Amos, 3 Pat. Off. Rep. 215; Dowling v. Billington, 7 Pat.
Off. Rep. 191; Tubes, Limited, v. Perfecta Seamless Steel Co.,
VOL. ccxiv-24

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Bradford and Fireproofing Co.

214 U. S.

20 Pat. Off. Rep. 77; Gammons v. Battersby, 21 Pat. Off. Rep.
322.
The doctrine that processes are not patentable unless they
involve chemical reactions and elemental changes is unjust
and contrary to the spirit of the Constitution and the intent
of the patent laws. 1 Robinson on Patents, ยง 167, p. 250; Dowling v. Billington, 7 Pat. Off. Rep. 191; O'Rourke Engineering
Construction Co. v. McMullen et al., 160 Fed. Rep. 933, 938.
If it be conceded-and it cannot be logically denied-that
an exercise of the inventive faculties can be involved in the
discovery of a combination of functions, acts or operations, by
which a new and useful result is obtained, then to deny the
patentability of such inventions is to establish a false standard
of patentability, and to exclude a large class of meritorious
inventors from the protection of the patent laws. Such a false
standard is not recognized in other countries, it is not within
the spirit of the Constitution or the meaning of tlhe statutes,
and we believe it was never the intent of the Supreme Court to
create it.
Mr. Frederick P. Fish and Mr. Thomas W. Bakewell, with
whom Mr. E. Hayward Fairbanks was on the brief, for respondents in No. 66 and petitioner in No. 606:
The subject of the patent in suit is the manufacture of expanded metal. This product, expanded metal, was old and
the operations for making it were first disclosed and fully described in British specification, No. 2,125 of 1862, and other
patents earlier than the one in suit.
In 1885 Golding & Durkee patented a machine (patent
No. 320,241), which is still largely in use, for making this old
product, expanded metal. Their mode of operation was such
that they did not greatly strain the metal and they were consequently adapted to cut and expand thin sheets.
When, however, Golding came to treat thick sheets, he required cutters especially adapted for that purpose. He therefore devised a machine with knives arranged in a straight row

EXPANDED METAL CO. v. BRADFORD.
214 U. S.

Argument for Bradford and Fireproofing Co.

instead of a stepped row. In this machine the alternation in
the position of the cuts was effected by shifting the cutters or
the sheet itself between each stroke of the cutters. This alternate location of the cuts was old and the product of the machine was old. What is involved in the patent in suit is an
effort to claim the function or mode of operation of this subsequently invented machine of Golding, a machine which performs an old process and produces an old product. In performing the old process the machine works according to its
own peculiar manner or mode of operation; but almost all machines have distinctive modes of operation; and the rule of law
that such modes of operation are not patentable, and that results are not patentable, but only new processes and new mechanisms and new articles, renders the patent in suit invalid.
The only reason for the success which has attended the device of the patent in suit is that the machine indicated therein
was adapted to treat heavy metal, and in the modern art of
concrete reinforcement heavy expanded metal has had a large
use, and therefore that machines adapted to produce heavy
metal have been largely used. This does not argue any novelty
in method, but simply argues the adaptability of the machine
to produce the heavy metal which is now demanded.
The case at bar involves no new principle of law, but only
the rule of law that patents for methods or processes can only
be granted for methods or processes which are new as methods
or processes; that a new machine devised for the practice of an
old method does not entitle one to a patent for a method of
operation although it may have, as most machines have, a
distinctive mode of operation.
The Expanded Metal Company admits that the operation of
simultaneously cutting and bending metal so as to stretch the
strand was old. It claims that what Golding discovered or invented was the act of repeating that old operation in such a
way that the two operations would combine to produce a new
result by reason of their combination.
And the record contains statements that amount to an ad-

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Bradford and Fireproofing Co.

214 U. S.

mission that all the steps of the process recited in the claim of
the patent were old, and that the only alleged novelty is in the
application of the known and familiar step of stretching metal
strands to the known process of expanding sheet metal.
The exigencies of the case have driven the complainant into
the inconsistent position in the two suits now pending before this
court. In the case at bar, where the defendant's machine has
a guillotine-shape knife carrying a series of cutters arranged
in a single straight line and therefore necessarily operating at
each stroke in a straight line from end to end of the sheet, the
complainant, in order to sustain its contention of novelty in
the method, has found it possible, without at the same time
differentiating its patent from the defendant's machine, to
contend that a novel step of the method patented was the
forming of the cuts in the sheet of metal in a straight line and
then, in successive operations forming other parallel series of
cuts in alternate positions. This complainant contends in
No. 606.
In No. 66, the defendant's machine in this respect is substantially different from that of the defendant in No. 606. It
does not make a single line of cuts extending from end to end
of the sheet, but makes diagonal cuts arranged like the cuts
produced by the machine of the prior patent of Golding &
Durkee. The interpretation which the complainant puts upon
the claim of the patent in the case at bar is rendered impossible and untenable by the charge of infringement which it
makes in the Bradford case. In these two suits the complainant has assumed different and contradictory definitions of the
patented invention.
The alleged invention of the patent in suit is not patentable
as a method. The subject-matter of the claim being a method,
the patentee must be an original and first inventor of a method.
Tilghman v. Proctor,102 U. S. 707, 728.
Keeping in mind the distinction, both in fact and in law, between method and apparatus, there are three classes of decisions in "method " cases,

EXPANDED METAL CO. v. BRADFORD.
214 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Those in which the patentee is shown to be the first and
original inventor of the entire method, as in O'Reilly v. Morse,
15 How. 62; Eames v. Andrews, 122 U. S. 40 (the Driven
Well case); The Telephone Cases, 126 U. S. 1.
Those in which the patentee is the inventor of some new and
essential part of a method otherwise old, as in Mowry v.
Whitney, 14 Wall. 630; Cochrane v. Deener, 94 U. S. 780; New
Process FermentationCo. v. Maus, 122 U. S. 413.
In cases coming fairly within either of these two classes,
the patents have generally been sustained-and properly so.
In the third class are included those patents which include
no substantial novelty of operation, or those in which every
essential element of method is already well known in the same
art.
In such cases, the courts have uniformly held a method
claim to be void-and this for the reason that in respect of
method, the patentee has invented nothing. In fact, nothing
remains for him to invent except a machine by which to work
the method.
In a method claim, in order that it may be held patentable,
the patentee must have incorporated some novelty of operation which was previously unknown in the art to which his invention belongs, and this must be something different from
the mere mode of operation of apparatus with which an old
method is put into practice. Corning v. Burden, 15 How. 252;
Burr v. Duryee, 1 Wall. 570; Fuller v. Yentzer, 94 U. S. 288;
Knapp v. Morss, 150 U. S. 227; Wing v. Anthony, 106 U. S.
142, 146; Risdon Locomotive Works v. Medart, 158 U. S. 68;
Cochrane v. Deener, 94 U. S. 780; Busch v. Jones, 184 U. S.
589; McKay v. Jackman, 12 Fed. Rep. 615; Brainard v.
Cramme, 12 Fed. Rep. 621; Hatch v. Moffit, 15 Fed. Rep. 253.
MR. JUSTICE DAY

delivered the opinion of the court.

These cases involve opposing decisions as to the validity of
letters patent of the United States No. 527,242, dated Octo-

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court..

214 U. S.

ber 9, 1894, granted to John F. Golding for an alleged improvement in the method of making expanded sheet metal. In case
No. 66, here on writ of certiorari to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit, a decree of the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, sustaining the patent, was reversed, and the patent held invalid.
The opinion of the Circuit Judge sustaining the patent is found
in 136 Fed. Rep. 870. The case in the Court of Appeals is
found in 146 Fed. Rep. 984. After the decree in the Circuit
Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit, the Expanded Metal
Company having filed a bill against the General Fireproofing
Company in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Ohio, the case was heard and the patent
held invalid on the authority of the case in the Circuit Court
of Appeals for the Third Circuit. 157 Fed. Rep. 564. The
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit reversed the
United States Circuit Court for the Northern District of Ohio,
and held Golding's patent valid and infringed. 164 Fed. Rep.
849. These writs of certiorari bring these conflicting decisions
of the Courts of Appeal here for review.
The patent in controversy relates to what is known as expanded sheet metal. Expanded metal may be generally described as metal openwork, held together by uncut portions
of the metal, and constructed by making cuts or slashes in
metal and then opening them so as to form a series of meshes
or latticework. In its simplest form sheet metal may be expanded by making a series of cuts or slits in the metal in such
relation to each other as to break joints, so that the metal,
when opened or stretched, will present an open mesh appearance. It may be likened to the familiar woven wire openwork
construction, except that the metal is held together by uncut
portions thereof, uniting the strands, and the whole forms a
solid piece.
In the earlier patents different methods are shown for cutting the metal, which cuts were afterwards opened by a separate operation of pulling or stretching. These crude methods

EXPANDED METAL CO. v. BRADFORD.
214 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

are shown in the earlier American and English patents which
appear in the record. While nothing more than such methods
was accomplished in the art there was little general or commercial use for expanded metal.
It was apparent that if a method could be devised by which
the metal could be simultaneously cut and expanded, such
method would be a distinct advance in the art, and this record
discloses that the desirable result of simultaneously performing these operations was accomplished in the Golding and
Durkee patent No. 320,242. In that patent the operation was
performed by means of knives arranged in a step order, the
sheet to be fed obliquely. The inventors describe the Golding
and Durkee method as follows:
"The process consists in the employment of a flat piece of
metal of any desired size, and beginning at one side and corner
and making an incision within the side of the metal, thus forming a strand which is simultaneously pressed away from the
plane of the metal in a direction at or near a right angle, the
position the strand assumes depending upon the distance it is
moved from the plane of the metal. a in the drawing shows
the first cut made. The next step in this process is to make
additional incisions, as is shown at c, b, and d, further within
the plate of metal, and leaving uncut sections at the ends of
the cuts, and simultaneously with the cutting the strands are
pressed away from the plane of the metal at the angle and to
the desired position, as above described. Thus each row of
meshes is simultaneously cut and formed from a blank piece of
metal without buckling or crimping the blank. In the act of
cutting and forming the meshes, the finished article is contracted in a line with the cuts or incisions, and consequently
it is shorter in this direction than the piece from which it was
cut, but it is greatly lengthened in a line at an angle to the
plane of the original sheet, plate or blank."
The result was to produce expanded metal, as shown in this
figure:

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

214 U. S.

With this patent as the advanced state of the art, Golding
set about making further improvements and the result was the
patent in suit. The specifications of the patent in suit state:
"In the manufacture of what is now generally known as expanded sheet metal, it has been customary to first cut the slits
in the sheet metal at short distances apart, and to open the
metal at the cuts thus formed by bending the severed portions
or strands in a direction at right angles substantially to the
plane of the sheet. It has also been made by simultaneously
cutting and opening the metal by means of cutters set off or
stepped relatively so as to make the slashes or cuts in different lines in the manner set forth in patents No. 381,230 or
No. 381,231, of April 17, 1888. In both of these methods the
product is somewhat shorter and materially wider than the
original sheet, but practically no stretching or elongation of
the metal forming the strands is caused.
"In my present invention I seek to avail myself of the ability
of the metal to stretch or distend as well as of its ability to
bend under strain or pressure, and the invention consists in
the improved method of making expanded metal, viz., by
simultaneously cutting and opening or expanding the metal
at the cuts by stretching the severed portions."

EXPANDED METAL CO. v. BRADFORD.
214 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

In the method further described in the specifications the expanded metal is shown to be made by the use of knives making
a series of slits in a straight line at equal distances apart across
the sheet and at the same time carrying downward the severed
portions of the metal. And this operation is performed by
bending the severed portion at a time when its ends are securely attached to the main sheet, thereby expanding the
sheet without materially shortening it. The sheet is then fed
forward, and the slitting and stretching operation is repeated
in such a manner that the slits are in every case made back of
the portion unsevered by the preceding operation, or, in other
words, as the specification states, the slits and unsevered portions alternate in position in each successive operation, the
bends given to the severed portions or strands being in direction at right angles to the plane of the sheet, there is no contraction in the length of the metal, and the expansion is
obtained by the stretching, distension, or elongation of the
severed strand. This patent contains the single claim, which
is as follows:
"The herein described method of making open or reticulated
metal work, which consists in simultaneously slitting and bending portions of a plate or sheet of metal in such manner as to
stretch or elongate the bars connecting the slit portions and
body of the sheet or plate, and then similarly slitting and bending in places alternate to the first-mentioned portions, thus
producing the finished expanded sheet metal of the same
length as that of the original sheet or plate, substantially as
described."
It is thus apparent that the method covered by the claim of
the patent is accomplished by the two operations indicated
and performed in the manner pointed out in the specifications.
The first operation of cutting, bending and stretching the
strands simultaneously produces a series of stretched loops or
half diamonds. Thus:

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

214 U. S.

This series of half diamonds is then supplemented by the
second operation, which consists in making a second series of
cuts and expansions for stretching the strands back of and
opposite the parts of the metal left uncut by the first operation.
The result is that the series of one-half diamonds is converted
into the series of full diamonds and because of the manner in
which the stretching is done, while the ends of the strands are
still firmly attached to the sheet, there is no material shortening of the length of the sheet. Thus:

What has Golding accomplished by this alleged improvement? These records leave no doubt that there are substantial advantages in the method of the patent in suit. As
the sheet is not shortened, the completed product is regular

EXPANDED METAL CO. v. BRADFORD.
214 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

in form and ready for many uses to which the shortened sheet
of the old method could not be put. The metal worked upon
can be much heavier than that which could be successfully
manipulated by the old process. The meshes are formed in a
uniform and regular way, so that a line drawn through their
intersections in one direction is at right angles with a line
drawn through their intersections in the other direction. There
is no irregularity in the width of the strands. Put to the test
of actual use, this record discloses that while the method of
the Golding and Durkee patent is still in use in some places in
this country, the method disclosed in the patent in controversy
is largely in use in the United States, Great Britain and Continental Europe; that it has greatly increased the use of expanded metal in this country, and opened new fields for use
where sheets of a regular shape can be used to a greater advantage than they could be when made under the old process.
The learned Circuit Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit
seems to have regarded the invention as consisting merely of
the improvement of the process in the manufacture of expanded metal by stretching certain portions of the metal when
the slit is cut and the mesh is opened. A broad claim of that
character was made in the Patent Office, and the file wrapper
and contents show that it was disallowed by the examiner.
The claim in its present form, framed by the examiner as sufficient to cover the real invention of the patent, was accepted
by the applicant, and is now the claim of the patent.
If all that Golding did was to show a method of simultaneously cutting and stretching the metal, the examiner was
doubtless right in holding it to have been anticipated by former
inventions, notably the patent to Ohl, No. 475,700, and in a
degree in the previous patents to Golding and to Golding and
Durkee.
But the patent in suit, embraced in the claim allowed, shows
more than a mere method of making open meshes by simultaneously cutting and stretching the metal. It shows a
method by which the metal is first cut and stretched in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

214 U. S.

manner indicated to make the half diamond, and then a second
operation, co6rdinating with the first and completing the mesh
by the manner in which it is performed in connection with the
first. It is the result of the two operations combined which
produces the new and useful result covered by the claim allowed in the Patent Office, and, which, when read in connection with the specifications, shows substantial improvement
in the art of making expanded metal work.
But it is said that the patent in suit discloses no means of
practically operating the method shown, and therefore, as
said by the learned judge in the Third Circuit, "it is but the expression of a happy thought," but the requirement of the patent law, in order to make a method or process patentable, is
that the patent shall indicate to those skilled in the art the
adaptation of means to put it into practice.
We think this record amply discloses, while no complete
mechanism is pointed out in the specifications, enough to indicate to those skilled in such matters a mechanism whereby the
method of the patent can be put into operation. As said by
Judge Severens, delivering the opinion of the court in No. 606,
in the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit:
"But here the inventor has gone on to point out that the
slitting and bending is to be done by a stationary cutter under
the sheet, and upper cutters to codperate in shearing the slit.
These upper cutters are so constructed as to bend down the
strand to the proper distance. It is not stated just what the
form shall be, but only ordinary skill in mechanics would suggest that the outer side of the cutter might be bevelled or.a
shoulder might be formed thereon to carry down the strand
when severed.
"Mechanism for the shifting of the sheet and of the knives
was already in use in machines for expanding metal, and, indeed, was common in the mechanical arts. Moreover, experts
have here testified that these devices could be arranged by any
skillful mechanic, and we have no reason to doubt it."
Golding testifies that he at first executed his process by

EXPANDED METAL CO. v. BRADFORD.
214 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

hand. Other witnesses, skilled in the art, say that they could
do likewise from the information found in the patent.
The important thing in this patent is a method of procedure,
not the particular means by whch the method shall be practised. Golding's machine patent was not applied for for more
than a year and a half after the issue of the patent in suit.
It is suggested that Golding's improvement, while a step forward, is nevertheless only such as a mechanic skilled in the art,
with the previous inventions before him, would readily take;
and that the invention is devoid of patentable novelty. It is
often difficult to determine whether a given improvement is a
mere mechanical advance, or the result of the exercise of the
creative faculty amounting to a meritorious invention. The
fact that the invention seems simple after it is made does not
determine the question; if this were the rule many of the most
beneficial patents would be stricken down. It may be safely
said that if those skilled in the mechanical arts are working in a
given field and have failed after repeated efforts to discover a
certain new and useful improvement, that he who first makes
the discovery has done more than make the obvious improvement which would suggest itself to a mechanic skilled in the
art, and is entitled to protection as an inventor. There is
nothing in the prior art that suggests the combined operation
of the Golding patent in suit. It is perfectly well settled that a
new combination of elements, old in themselves, but which produce a new and useful result, entitles the inventor to the protection of a patent. Loom Company v. Higgins, 105 U. S. 580591.
To our minds, Golding's method shows that degree of ingenuity and usefulness which raises it above an improvement
obvious to a mechanic skilled in the art, and entitles it to the
merit of invention. Others working in the same field had not
developed it, and the prior art does not suggest the combination of operations which is the merit of Golding's invention.
It is lastly contended, and this is perhaps the most important question in the case, that in view of the former declara-

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

214 U. S.

tions and opinions of this court, what is termed a process patent relates only to such as are produced by chemical action,
or by the operation or application of some similar elemental
action, and that such processes do not include methods or
means which are affected by mere mechanical combinations,
and a part of the language used in Corning v. Burden, 15 How.
252, and Risdon Locomotive Works v. Medart, 158 U. S. 68, is
seized upon in support of this contention. We have no disposition to question the decision in those cases.
An examination of the extent of the right to process patents
requires consideration of the object and purpose of the Congress in exercising the constitutional power to protect for a
limited period meritorious inventions or discoveries. Section
4886 of the Revised Statutes provides:
"Any person who has invented or discovered any new and
useful art, machine, manufacture, or composition of matter,
or any new and useful improvement thereof
may obtain a patent therefor."
This is the statute which secures to inventors the right of
protection, and it is not the province of the courts to so limit
the statute as to deprive meritorious inventors of its benefits.
The word "process" is not used in the statute. The inventor of
a new and useful art is distinctly entitled to the benefit of the
statute as well as he who invents a machine, manufacture,
or composition of matter. The word "process" has been
brought into the decisions because it is supposedly an equivalent form of expression or included in the statutory designation of a new and useful art.
What then is the statutory right to a patent for a "process"
when the term is properly considered? Curtis, in his work on
the Law of Patents, says:
"A process may be altogether new, whether the machinery
by which it is carried on be new or old. A new process may be
invented or discovered, which may require the use of a newlyinvented machine. In such case, if both the process and the
machine were invented by the same person, he could take sepa-

EXPANDED METAL CO. v. BRADFORD.
214 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

rate patents for them. A new process may be carried on by
the use of an old machine, in a mode in which it was never used
before.

.

.

.

In such a case, the patentability of the proc-

ess in no degree depends upon the characteristic principle of
the machine, although machinery is essential to the process,
and although a particular machine may be required." Curtis,
4th ed. ยง 14.
In Robinson on Patents, vol. 1, ยง 167, it is said:
"While an art cannot be practiced except by means of
physical agents, through which the force is brought in contact
with or directed toward its object, the existence of the art is not
dependent on any of the special means employed. It is a legal,
practical invention in itself. Its essence remains unchanged,
whatever variation takes place in its instruments as long as
the acts of which it is composed are properly performed."
And Walker on Patents, 4th ed. ยง3, states that valid process patents may be granted for "operations which consist entirely of mechanical transactions, but which may be performed by hand or by any of several different mechanisms or
machines."
It is undoubtedly true, and all the cases agree, that the mere
function or effect of the operation of a machine cannot be the
subject-matter of a lawful patent. But it does not follow that
a method of doing a thing, so clearly indicated that those skilled
in the art can avail themselves of mechanism to carry it into
operation, is not the subject-matter of a valid patent. The contrary has been declared in decisions of this court. A leading
case is Cochrane v. Deener, 94 U. S. 780, in which this court sustained a process patent involving mechanical operations, and
in which the subject was discussed by Mr. Justice Bradley,
speaking for the court. On page 787 that learned justice said:
"That a process may be patentable, irrespective of the particular form of the instrumentalities used, cannot be disputed.

.

.

.

Either may be pointed out; but if the patent

is not confined to that particular tool or machine, the use of the
others would be an infringement, the general process being the

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

214 U. S.

same. A process is a mode of treatment of certain materials to
produce a given result. It is an act, or a series of acts, performed upon the subject matter to be transformed and reduced
to a different state or thing. If new and useful, it is just as
patentable as is a piece of machinery. In the language of the
patent law, it is an art. The machinery pointed out as suitable
to perform the process may or may not be new or patentable;
whilst the process itself may be altogether new, and produce an
entirely new result. The process requires that certain things
should be done with certain substances, and in a certain order;
but the tools to be used in doing this may be of secondary consequence."
This clear and succinct statement of the rule was recognized
and applied (Mr. Justice Bradley again speaking for the court)
in the case of Tilghman v. Proctor,102 U. S. 707. In the course
of the opinion the learned justice tersely says:
"A machine is a thing. A process is an act, or a mode of
acting. The one is visible to the eye-an object of perpetual
observation. The other is a conception of the mind, seen only
by its effects when being executed or performed. Either may
be the means of producing a useful result."
That this court did not intend to limit process patents to
those showing chemical action or similar elemental changes is
shown by subsequent cases in this court.
In Westinghouse v. Boyden Company, 170 U. S. 537, the opinion was written by the same eminent justice who wrote the
opinion in Risdon Locomotive Works v. Medart, 158 U. S. supra,
and, delivering the opinion of the court, he said (p. 557):
"These cases [158 U. S. 68, and 103 U. S. 461] assume, although they do not expressly decide, that a process to be patentable must involve a chemical or other similar elemental
action, and it may be still regarded as an open question
whether the patentability of processes extends beyond this
class of inventions."
And added these significant words:
"Where the process is simply the function or operative effect

EXPANDED METAL CO. v. BRADFORD.
214 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of a machine, the above cases are conclusive against its patentability; but where it is one which, though ordinarily and most
successfully performed by machinery, may also be performed
by simple manipulation, such, for instance, as the folding of
paper in a peculiar way for the manufacture of paper bags, or
a new method of weaving a hammock, there are cases to the
effect that such a process is patentable, though none of the
powers of nature be invoked to aid in producing the result.
Eastern PaperBag Co. v. StandardPaperBag Co., 30 Fed. Rep.
63; Union Paper Bag Machine Co. v. Waterbury, 39 Fed. Rep.
389; Travers v. Am. Cordage Co., 64 Fed. Rep. 771. This case,
however, does not call for an expression of our opinion upon
this point, nor even upon the question whether the function
of admitting air directly from the train pipe to the brake cylinder be patentable or not, since there is no claim made for an
independent process in this patent, and the whole theory of the
specification and claims is based upon the novelty of the mechanism."
And the same learned justice wrote the opinion of the court
in Carnegie Steel Co. v. Cambria Iron Co., 185 U. S. 403, and
sustained a process patent. If by any construction that process
could be said to involve a "chemical or other similar elemental
action," no stress was laid upon that fact. This court, speaking through Mr. Chief Justice Waite, sustained a patent in the
Bell Telephone Cases, 126 U. S. 1, for a method of transmitting
electrical undulations similar in form to the vibrations of the
air accompanying vocal sounds, and at the same time the patent for the apparatus by which the method was operated was
sustained.
In Leeds & Catlin v. Victor Talking Machine Company, decided at this term, 213 U. S. 301,318, this court said: "A process and an apparatus by which it is performed are distinct
things. They may be found in one patent; they may be made
the subject of different patents."
We therefore reach the conclusion that an invention or discovery of a process or method involving mechanical operations,
VOL. ccxiv-25

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
214 U. S.

Syllabus.

and producing a new and useful result, may be within the protection of the Federal statute, and entitle the inventor to a
patent for his discovery.
We are of opinion that Golding's method was a substantial
improvement of this character, independently of particular
mechanisms for performing it, and the patent in suit is valid
as exhibiting a process of a new and useful kind.
As to the infringement, little or no question was made in case
No. 606. In case No. 66 the Circuit Court held that there was
some evidence of infringement, enough at least to warrant the
decree sustaining the patent and awarding an accounting.
With this conclusion we agree. It follows that the decree of the
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit (No. 66) should
be reversed and that of the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Sixth Circuit (No. 606) should be affirmed, and the cases remanded to the Circuit Courts of the United States for the
Eastern District of Pennsylvania and the Northern District
of Ohio, respectively, for further proceedings consistent with
this opinion.
Decrees accordingly.

UNITED STATES v. SHIPP.
INFORMATION IN

No. 5, Original.

CONTEMPT.

Argued March 2, 3, 1909.-Decided May 24, 1909.

The court, having already held, 203 U. S. 563, that the information
sufficiently set forth a contempt of the court to punish which the
court has jurisdiction, now finds on the testimony taken under its
direction that certain of the defendants named were guilty of the
contempt as charged and directs that attachments issue against
them, and that the defendants not found guilty be discharged.
Where a riot and the lawless acts of those engaged therein are the
direct result of opposition to the administration of the law by this

