WEEMS STEAMBOAT CO. v. PEOPLE'S CO.
214 U. S.

345

Statement of the Case,

WEEMS STEAMBOAT COMPANY OF BALTIMORE v.
PEOPLE'S STEAMBOAT COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.

No. 181.

Argued April 26, 1909.-Decided June 1, 1909.

A wharf on a navigable stream is private property and subject to the
absolute control of the owner as other property is.
The rights of a riparian owner on a navigable stream are governed by
the law of the State in which the stream is situated, but subject to
the paramount public right of navigation.
One of the rights of a riparian proprietor is to build private wharves
out so as to reach the navigable waters of the stream, and this right
has been affirmed by the courts of Virginia; but a wharf obstructing
navigation or private rights of others or encroaching upon any public
landing may be abated.
A private wharf on a navigable stream is the exclusive property of the
owner of which he can only be deprived in accordance with established law, and, if taken for public use, on compensation being made.
A private wharf on a navigable stream is not held by the owner, as a
railroad is, subject to the public use, and a third person has no right
to demand its use even on tendering compensation therefor and even
though there may be no other wharf at the place. Munn v. Illinois,
94 U. S. 113, distinguished. Louisville & Nashville Railway Co. v.
West Coast Naval Stores Co., 198 U. S. 483, followed.
The public obtains no adverse right against the owner of a private
wharf by mere user; in the absence of an intent on the owner's part
to dedicate, and an acceptance by the public authority, the use is
mere license subject to withdrawal.
The remarks of Mr. Justice Bradley in TransportationCo. v. Parkersburg, 107 U. S. 691, as to the right of the owner of a private wharf to
make arbitrary charges are obiter and are not applicable to the
present case.
141 Fed. Rep. 454, and judgment of Circuit Court of Appeals, affirming
it, reversed.

THE complainant (the above-named petitioner) commenced
this suit in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Virginia against the defendant, the Peo-

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Statement of the Case.

214 U. S.

ple's Steamboat Company and its officers and agents, for the
purpose of obtaining an injunction restraining the corporation
defendant from using certain wharves on the Rappahannock
River, in the State of Virginia, of some of which the complainant was the owner in fee, and of others the lessee of the exclusive use from the owners. The complainant contended
that it had the exclusive right to the use of such wharves,
either as owner or lessee, and that the defendant illegally and
against the will of the complainant insisted upon using them to
carry on its business, although offering to pay the complainant
what was the reasonable value of the defendant's use of such
wharves.
The corporation and the individual defendants filed joint
and separate answers, setting up a claim of right to the use of
such wharves upon compensation being made therefor, and
the case came before the court on motion of complainant for a
temporary injunction, as prayed for in the bill of complaint.
The court, without then passing upon any other question,
ordered that the matter be referred to a special master for the
purpose of taking such evidence as might be submitted to him
by either party, or which he might find necessary to take,
bearing upon the title to the several wharves mentioned in
complainant's bill and claimed by complainant, and to ascertain what rights passed to complainant with the acquisition
of such wharves and whether or not the wharves were public or
private wharves. Pursuant to this order of reference, hearings
were had before the master, who returned the evidence taken
before him with his opinion in favor of granting the injunction
as prayed for by the complainant, on the ground that the
wharves in question were private wharves owned or leased by
the complainant, who had the exclusive right to their use.
The facts found by the master were not overruled, but his conclusions of law were not concurred in by the court, and the
preliminary injunction was refused. The case was then submitted to the court for trial upon all the evidence taken, and
the bill was dismissed with costs. 141 Fed. Rep. 454.

WEEMS STEAMBOAT CO. v. PEOPLE'S CO.
214 U. S.

347

Argument for Petitioner.

The complainant appealed from the decree of dismissal to
the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit, where it
was affirmed upon the opinion of the Circuit Court.
The complainant then applied to this court for a writ of
certiorari to bring the case here, which petition was granted,
and the case has been submitted to this court upon the briefs
of respective counsel.
Mr. St. George R. Fitzhugh and Mr. George Weems Williams,
with whom Mr. Nicholas P. Bond was on the brief, for petitioner:
The mere fact that property is owned by a common carrier
does not make such property subject to any and every public
use. Neither does the fact that property may be used by a
common carrier in its business as such subject it to any use
that may be of supposed or actual benefit or advantage to the
public, but the carrier fulfills its obligation if it permits the
public, without discrimination, to use such property in transacting business with it as such carrier. Donovan v. Pennsylvania Co., 199 U. S. 279; Pittsburg &c. Ry. Co. v. Bingham, 29
Ohio St. 364, 370; 1 Farnham on Waters and Water Rights,
§ 66, p. 297; Same, § 110, pp. 509, 510; Same, § 112, p. 523;
Same, § 113b, pp. 533, 534; King v. Russell, 6 Barn. & C. 566,
Yates v. Milwaukee, 10 Wall, 497; Weber v. Board of Harbor
Commissioners, 18 Wall. 57.
The right to maintain private wharves in a navigable river
was recognized again in Transportation Co. v. Parkersburg,
107 U. S.691, and in Ill. Cent. R. Co. v. Illinois, 146 U. S.387,
445, 446, and in Dutton v. Strong, 1 Black, 23.
The right of a riparian owner as to the erection of wharves in
Virginia under statute, and the decisions of Virginia courts,
is as follows:
Code of Virginia of 1887, § 998:
"Any person owning land upon a water course may erect a
wharf on the same, or pier or bulkhead in such water course
opposite his land, providedthe navigation be not obstructed,

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Petitioner. ,

214 U. S.

nor the private rights of any person be otherwise injured
thereby. But the court of the county in which said wharf,
pier or bulkhead is, after causing ten days' notice to be given
to the owner thereof of its intention to consider the subject, if
it be satisfied that such wharf, pier or bulkhead, obstructs the
navigation of the water course, or so encroaches on any public
landing as to prevent the free use thereof, may abate the same."
See Norfolk City v. Cooke, 27 Gratt. 430, 435; Railway Co. v.
Faunce, 31 Gratt. 761, 764, 765; McCready v. Commonwealth of
Virginia, 27 Gratt. 985; Hardy v. McCullough, 23 Gratt. 251,
262.
The statutes of Virginia and the decisions of its courts govern in the determination of the rights of a riparian owner in
the navigable waters of that State. Shively v. Bowlby, 152
U. S. 1, 24-26; Illinois Central Ry. Co. v. Illinois, 146 U. S.
387; St. Anthony Falls v. St. Paul, 168 U. S.349.
The plaintiff is not, because it is a common carrier, bound
to permit, upon any terms, vessels competing with its own for
the same business to make use of its wharves for the purpose of
such competition, and can exclude not only competitors, but
all persons, from the use of its wharves, except those who have
business to transact thereat with it as a common carrier.
The fact that public roads have been built to the shore ends
of certain of these wharves has no effect on their character as
private wharves or the plaintiff's rights to limit their use to its
own patrons or other persons having business with it as a common carrier.
The fact that nearly all these wharves are built in the open
country, along the banks of the river, and not in cities or
towns or harbors or places where there may be more than one
landing place, makes no difference in the real character of
these wharves, whether public or private.
The law does not declare that a wharf, which is public in the
sense that the owner thereof has permitted the public to use
it for any purpose upon payment of compensation, shall for all
time remain public, but allows the owner thereof to change the

WEEMS STEAMBOAT CO. v. PEOPLE'S CO.
214 U. S.

349

Argument for Respondents.

public character of such a wharf by a proper and reasonable
notice. See Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v. West Coast
Naval Stores Co., 198 U. S. 483; Exterkamp v. Covington Harbor Co., 104 Kentucky, 796; Brisbine v. St. Paul Railway Co.,
23 Minnesota, 114, 129, 130; CaliforniaNay. Co. v. Union Co.,
126 California, 433; Irwin v. Dixion, 9 How. 33; Coney v.
Brunswick St. Co., 42 S. E. Rep. 498; S. C., 116 Georgia, 222;
Mills v. Evans, 100 Iowa, 712. See also Bogert v. Haight, 20
Barb. 251.
The opinion of the Circuit Court complained of herein disregards the principles of the cases which hold that a common
carrier has the right to select its agencies for conducting its
business and to decline to allow other carriers the use of its
terminal facilities. Atchison &c. R. R. v. Denver & N. 0. R. R.,
110 U. S. 667; Express Cases, 117 U. S. 1; St. Louis Drayage
Co. v. Louisville & N. R. R., 65 Fed. Rep. 39.
That a wharf owner may revoke a license to use his property
is settled in the following cases: RailroadCompany v. Hanning,
15 Wall. 649; Ilwaco &c. Co. v. Oregon Short Line, 57 Fed. Rep.
673; Coney v. Brunswick &c. Co., 116 Georgia, 222; Bogert
v. Haight, 20 Barb. 251; Heaney v. Heaney, 2 Denio, 625;
Swords v. Edgar, 59 N. Y. 28, 31, 32. Compare O'Neill v.
Aunett, 27 N. J. L. 290: see also 29 Am. & Eng. Ency., 1st
ed., 64.
Mr. William D. Carter, with whom Mr. Ellerbe W. Carter
was on the brief, for respondents:
'he right to "wharf out," neither under the common law
nor by statute, is conferred upon any common carrier as such.
No common carrier takes such right by Magna Charta, nor has
it such "jus naturalis." The privilege of constructing pier
wharves, and duties which arise when the privilege is exercised, pertain only to riparian proprietors. If the "plaintiff"
owns a wharf, it is as a riparian proprietor, and not because it is
a common carrier, that it is permitted to hold, maintain, and
enjoy the same. Hunt v. Ill. Central R. R., 184 U. S. 77, 86;

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Respondents.

214 U. S.

S. C.,146 U. S. 387; Yates v. Milwaukee, 10 Wall. 497; Dutton
v. Strong, 1 Black, 23; Virginia Code, §§ 998, 999.
Equity and justice require that the appropriate rules of law
be made to apply to every riparian proprietor alike. One
riparian proprietor who has exercised his privilege of constructing a wharf may enjoy his structure in his own way, and
put the wharf to his own use alone, or to his own use collectively with others, provided the uses are restricted and the
location and surrounding circumstances permit such use without injury to the public. Dutton v. Strong, 1 Black, 23; L. &
N. R. R. Co. v. West Coast Naval Stores Co., 198 U. S. 483.
The title to navigable waters and to the soil under water in
navigable rivers, is and must be held in perpetual trust for the
public as beneficiary. Martin v. Waddell, 16 Pet. 410; Shepherd's Point Land Co. v. Atlantic Hotel, 44 S. E. Rep. 39;
Smith v. Maryland, 18 How. 71, 74.
Though his domain stops at low-water mark, the riparian
proprietor (and he alone) may build out a wharf structure in
aid of navigation. Mobile Transp. Co. v. Mobile, 13 L. R. A.
352; 1 Farnham on Waters, p. 227, § 113b; Dutton v. Strong,
1 Black, 23; Yates v. Milwaukee, 10 Wall. 497.
The legislature of Virginia has, by statutory enactment, declared this rule of law also. Code of 1887, §§ 998, 999.
In building a wharf under § 998, the riparian proprietor exercises an inherent privilege which he enjoys under the law.
Whether he makes of his wharf a private "staith" or a public
facility depends mainly on the use to which it is subsequently
put. He may charge for the use of his wharf, but the charge
must be "reasonable " if he serves the general public. Code of
Virginia, § 999; Transportation Co. v. Parkersburg, 107 U. S.
691; Riddiek v. Dunn, 58 S. E. Rep. 493; Mobile Transp. Co.
v. Mobile, 13 L. R. A. 352; and see Gibler v. St. Louis Terminal
Assn., 203 Missouri, 208, for an exposition of the duties owed
the public by a toll bridge owner, and what differentiates between such a public servant and a common carrier. Both
serve the public, but a common carrier furnishes transporta-

WEEMS STEAMBOAT CO. v. PEOPLE'S CO.
214 U. S.

351

Opinion of the Court.

tion. The duties of a wharf owner serving the public are the
same as those of a bridge owner, with added responsibilities
on the wharf owner to serve both the public or individual
patrons coming to his wharf to secure the services of a carrier,
and the carrier public coming to the wharf in the line of securing business or discharging traffic.
If the circuit court of a Virginia county permit any individual to build out a wharf from a "public landing" under
Code, § 999, supra, it needs no argument to show that the public is the riparian proprietor, and the licensee builds under the
power or privilege of the licensor-the county, or, in other
words, the public.
Every such wharf is irrevocably affected with a public interest "ab condide," no matter how often it may be conveyed
and pass from vendor to vendee. Weber v. Board of Harbor
Comrs., 18 Wall. 61.
Under the decision in Dutton v. Strong, 1 Black, 23, a private
wharf, when maintainable at all, must be devoted habitually
to private business. Even though built by a private proprietor opposite his own shore (a condition the record shows
does not exist as to at least some of the wharves in controversy
here), if devoted to purposes of public commerce for compensation, it is a public wharf. Lord Hale, "De Portibus Mars;
and cases, supra.
The riparian owner who has built a wharf from his shore
out into the navigable waters of the Rappahannock and invited the public to use his wharf, and who for hire has habitually so served the public, cannot burden that service with any
such "condition" as that the shipping public must take passage over his wharf, either upon sailing vessels or else patronize
exclusively the steamers of a single carrier. Munn v. Illinois,
94 U. S.5.
after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM,

It appears that the complainant herein is a corporation of

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

214 U. S.

the State of Maryland and the defendant is a corporation of
the State of Virginia, the individual defendants being officers
or agents of such corporation and citizens of the same State.
The complainant has been for a long time engaged in the business of transportation of passengers and freight between Baltimore and various landings or places on the Rappahannock
River, in the State of Virginia, and for many years has been
the owner or lessee of the wharves on that river mentioned in
the bill of complaint. Some time before the commencement
of this suit the defendant began the transportation of passengers and freight between Fredericksburg and Urbanna, in
Virginia, and along the Rappahannock River in that State,
stopping at the same wharves on that river as complainant
and engaged in the same business. In order to transact its
business it made use of the wharves owned or leased by the
complainant, in spite of the opposition of complainant and
against its protests, although defendant offered to make compensation for the reasonable value of the use which it made
of such wharves in the prosecution of its business, which offers
were refused by the complainant, and it notified the defendant to desist from the use of the wharves owned or leased by
it. The action of the defendant in making use of the wharves
of complainant was based upon the contention that the defendant had the legal right to do so, inasmuch as in many
cases there were no other wharves at such places where the
defendant desired to land, and that it was necessary to use
such wharves in order that defendant might prosecute its business of transporting passengers and freight to and from the
various landings on the river, and because the wharves had for
many years been used by the public.
It was proved before the master (and we take the facts in the
case, as found by him), that the complainant was the owner
in fee of five different wharves along the banks of the river and
of the land under the water where the wharves were built; also
that the complainant was the lessee of eight wharves owned by
different persons who had, prior to the commencement of this

WEEMS STEAMBOAT CO. v. PEOPLE'S CO.
214 U. S.

353

Opinion of the Court.

suit, leased their exclusive use to the complainant, and that
it was during the time of the existence of the leases that the
defendant entered upon and used the wharves for its own purposes. The master reported that there was no evidence of any
prior dedication of any of such wharves to the public, either
those owned by or leased to complainant, and, of course, none
of any acceptance thereof by the public authorities, nor was
there any evidence of any condemnation of any of such
wharves on the part or in behalf of any public authority; that
the wharves were private wharves, either owned by the complainant in fee or leased by it, for its exclusive use, from the
owners in fee of such wharves. The most that can be said is
that in some cases the former owners of the wharves now
owned by the complainant, as well as the lessors of the wharves
before they leased the same, and while owners thereof, had
built them and had permitted the public to use them, and had
frequently received compensation for such use, and in many
cases the use had been without compensation. After the sales
of the wharves and after the execution of the leases neither the
former owners nor the lessors made any claim to the use of the
wharves or to any right to permit others to use them, either
with or without compensation, and the complainant formally
notified the defendant that the complainant refused to permit
such use any longer. It appeared that public roads had been
made from the surrounding country to the places where these
private wharves had been built sometimes before the building
of the wharves and sometimes the roads had been laid out after
such wharves had been built. The use that had been made of
the wharves after they had been built and prior to the purchase or leasing by the complainant was nothing more than
such as was founded upon a mere license on the part of the
owners and without any dedication of the wharves to the public or any acceptance on the part of the public further than by
indiscriminate user, and with no taking or condemnation of
the right to use the wharves as public wharves, The title to
the wharves, as private property remained unaffected, in, any
voL. ccxiv-23

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

214 U. S.

way, and there was nothing to prevent the withdrawal of
license to use at any time. In some cases the wharves were
the only ones that had been built at the places where such
wharves existed and the use of such wharves was convenient
for the transaction of the defendant's business.
The complainant is in the actual possession of all the
wharves, those which it has purchased and those which it has
leased, and its title and right to the exclusive possession of all
of them is recognized and assented to by both grantors and
lessors, and not one of them makes any claim of any interest
in the wharves as against complainant.
The Circuit Court, in speaking of the facts as found by the
master, said, p. 455:
"While the said thirteen wharves involved in this proceeding by no means include all the wharves or stopping places for
vessels on the river, it may be said that they embrace the important wharves from which passenger and freight business
is chiefly procured in passing up and down the river, and that
the business from said wharves is large. With possibly a
single exception these wharves are at the termini of public
highways in the counties in which they are respectively built;
the character of the business consists of passenger travel, and
merchandise received over said wharves, consisting of the
general products of the country; and they are the usual stopping places of persons living in the immediate neighborhood
of the wharves, and of the inhabitants of the country for some
distance in the interior. That at said wharves United States
post offices are established, at which the mail of the people
for the surrounding country is procured; and that, as to the
wharves leased as aforesaid, the same were leased upon a rental
of a commission of ten per cent of all freight charges and passenger fares collected by the complainant on said wharves, the
owner of said wharves maintaining an agent there to assist in
mooring the vessels of the complainant making landings there,
and in receiving and forwarding freight therefrom, and at
some of the wharves sail vessels from time to time moor and

WEEMS STEAMBOAT CO. v. PEOPLE'S CO.
214 U. S.

355

Opinion of the Court.

lade and unlade, making proper compensation to the owners
of the wharves for their use."
With reference to these facts the Circuit Court said that
"While the special master is doubtless correct in his findings
as to the actual ownership of the property rights in said
wharves, namely, that they are the individual property of the
several owners thereof, and as such pass regularly by the laws
of descent and purchase, it by no means follows that said
wharves are private quoad the public; that is, either the citizens desiring to use the wharves to reach the means of transportation upon and over said river, or owners of such methods
of transportation plying the waters of said river; the obligation
upon each being to render and pay to such wharf owner reasonable wharfage and charges for the use of his property, under
such proper and reasonable regulations as might be imposed
either by law or by the owner of the property."
The rights of a riparian owner upon a navigable stream in
this country are governed by the law of the State in which the
stream is situated. These rights are subject to the paramount
public right of navigation. The riparian proprietors have the
right, among others, to build private wharves out so as to
reach the navigable waters of the stream. Dutton v. Strong,
1 Black, 23; Yates v. Milwaukee, 10 Wall. 497; Transportation
Co. v. Parkersburg,107 U. S. 691, 699; Illinois Central R. R.
v. Illinois, 146 U. S. 387, 445; St. Anthony Falls Water Power
Company v. St. Paul Water Commissioners, 168 U. S.349, 368.
The courts of the State of Virginia affirm the same rights of the
riparian proprietor. Norfolk City v. Cooke, 27 Gratt. 430, 435;
Alex. &c.Railway v. Faunce, 31 Gratt. 761, 765. If the wharf
obstructs navigation or the private rights of others, or if it
encroach upon any public landing, the wharf may be abated.
Code of Virginia (1887), § 998. A private wharf on a navigable stream is thus held to be property which cannot be destroyed or its value impaired, and it is property the exclusive
use of which the owner can only be deprived in accordance
with established law, and if necessary that it or any part of it

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

214 U. S.

be taken for the public use due compensation must be made.
The owner of a private wharf on a navigable stream does not,
on that account only, hold it by a different title from the
owner of any other property which he may use himself or permit others whom he may select to use, while at the same time
denying its use by any one else.
The case of Munn v. Illinois, 94 U. S. 113, 127, has, in our
judgment, no bearing upon the question before us. In that
case and in those cited therein the discussion was in regard to
the right of owners of property of the nature described to
charge what they pleased for the doing of the business in
which they were engaged. Their property was being used
with their consent by and its use devoted to the public to any
extent desired, and the only question was in regard to the
compensation which they were entitled to ask for the business
thus done. The complaint was that the charges were too great
and were a violation of a law of the State and were not reasonable, and the answer made by the owners of the property was
that it was their private property, and they had the right to
charge what they pleased. The court said, as you have devoted your property to a use in which the public has an interest, you have granted to the public an interest in that use
and the right, on the part of the State, to regulate charges
which you shall make, to the end that they shall be just and
reasonable. If the owner of one of these wharves had devoted
it to the public use and permitted the public to use it as it
desired, and demanded compensation for such use, the question as to the amount of such compensation might be raised
as in the Munn class of cases, to be determined with reference
to the reasonableness of the charge. But this is no such case.
The legislature has passed no law regarding rates, if that were
material, and the reasonableness of the charge is not under
consideration. The right to use the property has been withdrawn by the owner as to the public in general, including defendant. The only question is whether a third person has the
right to use a private wharf on tendering reasonable compensa-

WEEMS STEAMBOAT CO. v. PEOPLE'S CO.
214 U. S.

357

Opinion of the Court.

tion therefor, because there is no other wharf at the place, or
because it would be more convenient to such third person to
so use it or because the former owner of the wharf had permitted the public to use it, although the present owner refused to consent to such use. There is no more reason why
such property should be held subject to the right of others to
use it against the will of its owner than there is for any other
kind of property to be so held.
The question as to the right of the owner to exclude others
from the use of a private wharf on a navigable stream has been
very recently decided by this court in Louisville &c. Railway
Co. v. West Coast Naval Stores Co., 198 U. S. 483, and the right
of such owner to exclude any or all other persons from the use
of such wharves was affirmed. The owner was not, it was also
said, compelled to use the wharf exclusively for his own business or else to throw it open for the use of every one; that he
could not only use it himself and permit some others to use it,
but might at the same time exclude still others to whom he
did not choose to grant such right. The case was not decided
with reference to the existence of another wharf in the harbor.
No such matter was adverted to.
And so in regard to the use of a private wharf by the public,
with or without compensation to the owner. The public can
obtain no adverse right as against such owner by mere user.
To obtain it there must be an intention on the part of the
owner to dedicate the property to the use of the public, and
there must be an acceptance of such dedication on the part of
some public authority, which may sometimes be implied (but
not in such a case as this), and in the absence of such dedication and acceptance the use will be regarded as under a simple
license, subject to withdrawal at the pleasure of the owner.
Harrisv. The Commonwealth, 20 Gratt. 833; Gaines v. Merriman (1898), 95 Virginia, 660; Irwin v. Dixion, 9 How. 10, 32.
The rights of the public must have been obtained by an adverse
user so as to take away from the owner the ordinary rights of
ownership. In this case there was never anything but a mere

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

214 U. S.

license. The mere fact that there may be no wharf in the
particular place other than that owned by the complainant,
and also the fact that the use of such wharf is very convenient
or even necessary for the defendant in order to prosecute its
business as a competitor of complainant, together with the
fact that the former owners had permitted the public upon
occasions to use the wharf, furnish not the slightest reason
for holding that the wharf of complainant is held on the condition that it must continue to permit others to use it upon
compensation, when they desire to prosecute their own business of transporting passengers or freight on the river. It was
found by the master that there had never been any abandonment of the right of exclusive enjoyment of any of the wharves,
and they were assessed for taxation to the owners and taxes
paid on them by the owners.
Mr. Justice Bradley in Transportation Co. v. Parkersburg,
107 U. S. 691, 699, remarked (obiter) that whether a private
wharf might be maintained as such where it is the only facility
of the kind in a particular port or harbor, might be questioned.
He recognized the law to be that there might be a private
wharf in a navigable stream, and that the owner in permitting
its temporary use by another would be at liberty to make his
own bargain for such use. The remark was made with reference to the amount of the charges for wharfage, and the Justice
doubted the right, under the circumstances stated, of the
owner of a wharf to make such charges as he chose, without
reference to their being reasonable. It is another matter, however, to say that the owner of a private wharf must permit its
use by the public simply because the wharf he has built or purchased is the only wharf in the port, or because the public had
theretofore been permitted to use the wharf, with only the
rights of a licensee.
We see no sufficient reason for subjecting a private wharf to
the public use, which may frequently include that of a competitor with the owner, simply because there is no other wharf
at the place. A public wharf, it is presumed, may be built, or

ENGLISH v. ARIZONA.
214 U. S.

Syllabus.

if there be no place for one, the private wharf might be taken
by public authority for the public use, upon compensation
being made for the taking of the property.
We are of opinion that the decree of the court below is
erroneous, and it is therefore
Reversed, with directions to enter a decree for an injunction as
prayed for in the bill of complaint. So ordered.

ENGLISH v. TERRITORY OF ARIZONA ex rel. GRIFFITH, TREASURER OF PIMA COUNTY.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF
ARIZONA.

No. 180.

Submitted April 26, 1909.-Decided June 1, 1909.

Where there is doubt as to the construction of a statute of a Territory
this court leans towards the construction given by the Supreme
Court of the Territory, Copper Queen Mining Co. v. Arizona Board,
206 U. S. 474, and unless there is manifest error this court will not
disturb a decision of that court, Fox v. Haarstick, 156 U. S. 674, and
in this case this court accepts the decision of the Supreme Court of
Arizona in construing a revenue statute of that Territory.
The question of special benefit of assessment work and property to
which it extends is one of fact. Stanley v. Supervisors, 121 U. S.
535, 550.
Property owners who have been duly notified of the meeting of commissioners in regard to a public improvement and assessment therefor are bound to take notice of the subsequent presentation in conformity with law of the report of such commissioners. Lander v.
Mercantile National Bank, 186 U. S. 458.
One who promotes an improvement and appears before the commission to protest against the amount of the assessment on his property
is precluded from attacking the legality of the assessment on the
ground that he had no notice. Wight v. Davidson, 181 U. S. 371.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

