OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Appellants.

214 U. S.

any part of it. The property has in large part been sold or
otherwise disposed of in the course of the bankruptcy administration. Under these circumstances we are of opinion that
the trustee, the appellant in this case, was bound by the agreement of the receiver, that all the property in dispute should be
conclusively deemed that which passed under the original conditional contract or the proceeds thereof.
Judgment affirmed.

JOSEPH WILD & COMPANY v. PROVIDENT LIFE AND
TRUST COMPANY, TRUSTEE OF WATKINSON &
COMPANY, BANKRUPTS.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.
No. 190.

Argued April 29, 1909.-Decided May 24, 1909.

Where a creditor, who had no knowledge of the debtor's insolvency,
has a claim upon an open account for goods sold and delivered during the period of four months before the adjudication in bankruptcy, the account being made of debts and credits, leaving a net
amount due from the bankrupt estate, the payments made under
such circumstances do not constitute preferences which the creditor
is bound to surrender before proving his claim. Yaple v. DahlMillikan Grocery Co., 193 U. S. 526, followed; Piriev. Trust Co., 182
U. S. 438, distinguished.
153 Fed. Rep. 562, reversed.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Max L. Powell and Mr. Harris S. Sparhawk for appellants:
The appellants were wholly ignorant of the insolvency of
the bankrupts and there was no intent on the part of the bankrupts to prefer appellants. After insolvency and before bank-

WILD v. PROVIDENT TRUST CO.
214 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

ruptcy, the bankrupts' estate by reason of their dealings with
appellants was enriched to the amount of $2,565.92.
To this extent it presents exactly the same situation found
in Jaquith v. Alden, 189 U. S. 78, in which it was held that
where all the goods were sold and delivered after the bankrupt's property had actually become insufficient to pay his
debts, his estate was increased in value thereby to an amount
in excess of the payments made.
This was not the fact in Pirie v. Chicago Trust Co., 182 U. S.
438, in which case, the estate of the insolvent as it existed at
the date of insolvency was diminished by the payment.
The attention of the court is directed to the importance that
is given to the date of insolvency in these last two cases, as
the only method of determining whether or not a particular
creditor has obtained a greater percentage of his debt than
any other creditor of the same class is to ascertain if during a period of insolvency the bankrupts' estate has been enriched by reason of the transactions in their entirety. The
running account between the insolvent and the creditor may
be variable, and during insolvency may show at times a diminishing of the estate; but if in the entirety of the transactions the estate is enriched, then the payments are not preferential.
In the case now before the court no sale was made after the
payment. It must be remembered it was payment on a running account. The first payment by insolvents was followed
by sales, all were within a period of insolvency, and are to be
considered as parts of one continuous bona fide transaction
kept alive by extension of new credits.
The object of the bankrupt act, so far as creditors are concerned, is to secure equality of distribution among them of the
property of the bankrupt. Such object could not be secured
if there were no provisions against preferences. Pirie v. Chicago Title & Trust Co., supra. A preference is a transfer of
property which enables one of the creditors of a bankrupt to
obtain a greater percentage of his debt than any other creditors

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Appellees.

214 U. S.

of the same class. Where a running account, with no knowledge of insolvency on the part of the creditor, and no intent
to prefer, comprised within a period of insolvency, shows a net
gain to the estate and a consequent loss to the creditor, that
creditor has not been preferred, for that creditor does not receive a greater percentage of his debt than other creditors in
the same class.
Mr. Arthur G. Dickson for appellees:
The history of the subject shows that the return of the innocently received preference by subsequent credits was an essential part of the theory which permitted the retention of the
payments that had been received by the creditor during insolvency and within four months of bankruptcy. It is true
that, in Jaquith v. Alden, 189 U. S. 78, the sale which was the
last of the transactions was not large enough to be by itself a
return of the payment just previously received, but it was at
least a partial rethrn thereof. Furthermore, the payments
and sales were very closely inter-related, so that this court was
able to regard all of the transactions as one continuing course
of dealing, where payments had had the effect of inducing
new sales. In Jaquith v. Alden there were, first, two sales,
then two payments; next three sales, then a payment, and,
lastly, a sale. The payments, therefore, kept the account alive
and helped to increase the estate by inducing the extension of
additional credits.
In the present case, the first sale was paid for and then there
followed a number of sales. If the transactions had stopped
there, this case would not be before this court. There was,
however, a subsequent payment of a part of the account. This
payment did not induce any subsequent credits; it was not so
intermingled with other payments and sales as to entitle the
creditor to ask that it be taken as part of a continuing transaction by which the estate was benefited. Its only effect was to
reduce the estate, to take a part of the assets which then belonged to all of the creditors of the bankrupts and to give it to

WILD v. PROVIDENT TRUST CO.
214 U. S.

Argument for Appellees.

one of -them. No reasoning, however plausible, can rob this
payment of that effect and it was, therefore, under the bankruptcy act of 1898, a preference.
The decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals in this case was
in accord with its own previous opinion in the case of Gans v.
Ellison, 114 Fed. Rep. 734.
"If, then, a creditor innocently preferred has given return
credits afterwards, he has surrendered his preference to the
extent of such return credits. To effectuate justice, both sides
of the account are to be considered, in the case of a creditor
who innocently has received preferences, and afterwards in
good faith has given the debtor further credit, without security, for property which has become a part of the debtor's
estate." See also Kimball v. Rosenham Co:, 114 Fed. Rep.
85; In re Colton Export Co., 121 Fed. Rep. 663.
Although Circuit Judge Gray, in delivering the opinion in
this case, admitted "that the authorities are not harmonious
and do not satisfactorily dispose of the precise question here
presented, there is no real difference of opinion between the
judges of different circuits. In no case, with the exception of
In re Topliff, 114 Fed. Rep. 323 (District Court of Massachusetts), has there been a decision enabling a creditor, whose
last transaction with the bankrupt during insolvency and
within four months of bankruptcy, has been the receipt of a
payment, to retain such payment. In every other case in
which the creditor has been permitted to retain payments received during insolvency and within the four months' period,
those payments have been succeeded by new credits extended
to the bankrupt.
For a history of the question herein involved see the following cases: McKay v. Lee, 105 Fed. Rep. 923; In re Ryan, 105
Fed. Rep. 760; In re Southern Overall Mfg. Co., 111 Fed.
Rep. 518; Kahn v. Export & Com. Co., 115 Fed. Rep. 290;
In re E. 0. Thompson's Sons, 6 A. B. R. 663; aff'd in 7 A. B.
R. 214, and Gans v. Ellison, 114 Fed. Rep. 734; Peterson v.
Nash Brothers, 112 Fed. Rep. 311; In re Beswick, 7. A. B. R.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

214 U. S.

395; Dickson v. Wyman, 111 Fed. Rep. 726; Morey Mercantile
Co. v. Schiffer, 114 Fed. Rep. 447; Kimball v. Rosenham Co.,
114 Fed. Rep. 85; In re Sagor & Bro., 121 Fed. Rep. 658;
Jaquith v. Alden, 189 U. S. 78; Yaple v. Dahl-Millikan
Grocery Co., 193 U. S. 526.
MR. JUSTICE

MOODY delivered the opinion of the court.

The appellants, Joseph Wild & Company, offered for proof
against the estate of George Watkinson & Company, who had
been declared bankrupts, a claim of $2,565.92. The claim
was allowed by the referee but disallowed by the District
Court, except upon a surrender of an alleged preference of
$634.78, which was received within four months of the adjudication. The judgment of the District Court was affirmed
by the Circuit Court of Appeals.
The facts of the case are simple. The bankrupt became insolvent on or before January 1, 1901, but the claimants had no
knowledge of their insolvency during the running of the account hereafter referred to, and the merchandise therein specified was sold and delivered in the ordinary course of business.
The appellants sold and delivered merchandise in various
items, beginning February 14, 1901, and ending October 8,
1901. The total price of the merchandise thus delivered was
$3,377.28. There were payments on account on June 29 and
October 10, amounting to $811.36, leaving the net amount by
which the bankrupt estate was enriched $2,565.92. The last
payment, on October 10, was $634.78, and was two days after
the last sale and delivery of merchandise.
The single question in the case is whether that payment was
a preference. It is conceded that it would not be a preference,
in view of the other facts in the case, if it had been followed by
a sale and delivery of goods of any value, however small. This
concession is made necessary by the decision in Jaquith v.
Alden, 189 U. S. 78, which is, in all respects, like the present
case, except that two days after the payment, which was al-

SOUTHERN RY. CO. v. ST. LOUIS HAY CO.
214 U. S.

297

Syllabus.

leged to be a preference, merchandise of trifling value was sold
and delivered to the bankrupt. But the decision in that case
was not rested upon the fact of this slight sale subsequent to
the last payment. It was rather put upon the broader principle that all the dealings between the creditor and the bankrupt were after the bankrupt's insolvency, and that their net
effect was to enrich the bankrupt's estate by the total sales,
less the total payments. The majority of the court thought
these facts distinguished the case from Piriev. Trust Company,
182 U. S. 438, though there was a difference of opinion upon
that point. But all doubt was resolved in Yaple v. DahlMillikan Grocery Co., 193 U. S. 526, where the precise question,
which is now here, was decided by the court, and it was held,
where a creditor has a claim upon an open account for goods
sold and delivered during the period of four months before the
adjudication in bankruptcy, the account being made up of
debits and credits, leaving a net amount due from the bankrupt estate, that payments made under such circumstances
did not constitute preferences which the creditor was bound to
surrender before proving his claim in bankruptcy.
It follows that the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals
was erroneous, and it must be
Reversed.

SOUTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY v. ST. LOUIS HAY &
GRAIN COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SEVENTH
CIRCUIT.

No. 104.

Argued March 8, 9, 1909.-Decided June 1, 1909.

A carrier which is at service and expense in stopping goods in transit
for inspection and reloading for the benefit of the shipper is entitled
to compensation in addition to the actual expense incurred.
Where the Interstate Commerce Commission has held, and its order has

been affirmed by the Circuit Court and Circuit Court of Appeals, that

