ENGLISH v. ARIZONA.
214 U. S.

Syllabus.

if there be no place for one, the private wharf might be taken
by public authority for the public use, upon compensation
being made for the taking of the property.
We are of opinion that the decree of the court below is
erroneous, and it is therefore
Reversed, with directions to enter a decree for an injunction as
prayed for in the bill of complaint. So ordered.

ENGLISH v. TERRITORY OF ARIZONA ex rel. GRIFFITH, TREASURER OF PIMA COUNTY.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF
ARIZONA.

No. 180.

Submitted April 26, 1909.-Decided June 1, 1909.

Where there is doubt as to the construction of a statute of a Territory
this court leans towards the construction given by the Supreme
Court of the Territory, Copper Queen Mining Co. v. Arizona Board,
206 U. S. 474, and unless there is manifest error this court will not
disturb a decision of that court, Fox v. Haarstick, 156 U. S. 674, and
in this case this court accepts the decision of the Supreme Court of
Arizona in construing a revenue statute of that Territory.
The question of special benefit of assessment work and property to
which it extends is one of fact. Stanley v. Supervisors, 121 U. S.
535, 550.
Property owners who have been duly notified of the meeting of commissioners in regard to a public improvement and assessment therefor are bound to take notice of the subsequent presentation in conformity with law of the report of such commissioners. Lander v.
Mercantile National Bank, 186 U. S. 458.
One who promotes an improvement and appears before the commission to protest against the amount of the assessment on his property
is precluded from attacking the legality of the assessment on the
ground that he had no notice. Wight v. Davidson, 181 U. S. 371.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

214 U. S.

Mr. James Reilly, Mr. A. C. Baker and Mr. Marcus A.
Smith for appellants.
Mr. Samuel L. Kingan for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA

delivered the opinion of the court.

This suit was brought in the District Court of Pima County,
Arizona, by the Territory of Arizona to collect a delinquent
special assessment levied by the city of Tucson on the property of appellants for the payment of the improvement of Congress street in that city. The assessment was levied under the
provision of chapter 2 of title 11 of the Revised Statutes of the
Territory. The Territory obtained judgment for the amount
of the assessment, $12,533.75, which was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the Territory.
The contentions that appellants made in the Supreme Court
of the Territory as far as appears from its opinion were, (1)
That the Territory, at the relation of the treasurer and ex officio
tax collector of Pima County, had no right to bring this suit,
but that such right was in the city tax collector. (2) (a) That
the assessment was erroneous because the cost of the improvement was divided "by the arbitrary front foot rule," and that
the assessment was made upon that basis and not upon the
basis of benefits derived from such improvement; (b) the committee appointed under the act to make the assessment took
into consideration the value to appellants of a certain narrow
strip of land lying between the lot of appellants and Congress
street, left open and unoccupied in the widening and improvement of the street. (3) That the appellants had no notice, actual or constructive, when the common council would act upon
the report of the committee. (4) That the property was not
subject to special assessment because appellants' property was
not contiguous to the improvement made. The Supreme
Court of the Territory decided all of the contentions against
appellants, the last one on the ground that the complaint
alleged that appellants' property was contiguous to the im-

ENGLISH v. ARIZONA.
214 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

provement, which allegation was not denied by the answer.
That contention, therefore, we may take no further notice of.
The first contention is repeated here, and it invokes our
construction of the statutes of the Territory against that made
by the Supreme Court. If there were doubt we should certainly lean to the construction given by the Supreme Court.
Copper Queen Mining Co. v. Arizona Board, 206 U. S. 474, 479.
But we think there is no doubt. There is no dispute as to the
proceedings taken, so far as they could vest authority in the
relator Bogan as county tax collector to bring this suit. The
dispute turns upon the law. Paragraph 483 of the Revised
Statutes of the Territory as amended in 1897 provides that
"it shall be the duty of the collector of special assessments,
within such time as the common council may provide, but in
no event later than the 21st of December of the year in
which such assessment was made, to make a report in writing to the general officer of the county authorized by the general revenue law to sell for taxes due the county and Territory,
of all the lands, town lots and real property upon which he
shall be unable to collect special assessments, with the amount
due of special assessments and unpaid thereon, together with
his warrant or a brief description of the nature of the warrant
received by him authorizing the collection thereof; .
that he is unable to collect the same or any part thereof, and
that he has given notice required by law that said warrants
have been received by him for collection." It is further provided that the report when made shall be prima facie evidence
that all of the forms and requirements of the law have been
complied with, and that the special assessments mentioned in
the report are due and unpaid. "And in any action before any
court, wherein the question of the validity of such assessment
is an issue, no defense or objection shall be made or heard
which might have been interposed in the proceedings for the
making of such assessment or the application for the confirmation thereof." It is provided in the next section that the
county collector shall incorporate said list with the county

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

214 U. S.

delinquent list, and "shall sell such delinquent city property
at the same time and in the same manner for such city delinquent special assessment as real property is required to be
sold by law for county and Territorial delinquent taxes." The
Supreme Court said that "this section construed alone might
well be considered as excluding any other method of collecting
delinquent special assessments." But the court further said
that paragraph 488 should be considered. That paragraph
reads as follows:
"The general revenue laws of this Territory in reference to
proceedings for the collection of delinquent taxes on real property, the sale thereof, the execution of certificates of sale and
deeds thereon, the force and effect of such deeds and sales;
and all other laws in relation to the enforcement and collection
of delinquent taxes and redemption of tax sales, except as
herein otherwise provided, shall be applicable to proceedings
to collect such special assessments."
The court pointed out that the Act 92 of the Laws of 1903
repealed the general revenue law of the Territory in reference
to proceedings for the collection of delinquent taxes, and
substituted for a sale of the property by the tax collector a
suit by that officer in the name and for the use of the Territory.
The court said: "Unless, therefore, the act of 1903 applies to
delinquent special assessments there would be no method
provided by the existing statutes for the sale of delinquent
city property for delinquent special assessments." And the
court concluded that §§ 84 and 96 of the Acts of 1903 make
"the method of collecting delinquent taxes provided for in the
act applicable to all delinquent taxes which may appear on
the roll." Section 84 provides:
"Within sixty days after the taking effect of this chapter,
and every year thereafter, within thirty days after the settlement of the tax collector, the several clerks of the county
boards of supervisors in each county in this Territory shall
make in a book to be called the 'back tax book' a correct list
in numerical order of all tracts of land and town lots on which

ENGLISH v. ARIZONA.
214 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

back taxes shall be due in such county, city or town, setting
forth opposite each tract of land or town lot the name of the
owner," etc.
Section 96 reads as follows:
"All back taxes, of whatever kind, appearing due upon
delinquent real estate shall be extended in the 'back tax
book' made under the chapter and collected by the tax collector under authority of this chapter."
Appellants contest the construction made by the Supreme
Court of the Territory, but we have said that, unless in a case
of manifest error, this court will not disturb a decision of the
Supreme Court of a Territory construing a local statute.
Fox v. Haarstick, 156 U. S.674, 679. There is certainly not
manifest error in the ruling in the present case. Indeed, we
see no reason to doubt its correctness.
Of the second contention of appellants, that the assessment
was made according to the "arbitrary front foot rule," and
not upon the basis of benefits derived from the improvement,
the Supreme Court said that even if the record showed that the
committee in the respects named had improperly assessed the
property, that appellants, not having followed the remedy given
by the statutes for a revision of the assessments, were precluded
from complaint, citing Stanley v. Supervisors, 121 U. S.550.
But be this as it may, it was certainly decided in Stanley v.
Supervisors that the question of special benefit and the property to which it extends is of necessity a question of fact, and
the Supreme Court found that the commissioners appointed
examined the locality of the improvement, ascertained to
what extent the public would be benefited and to what extent
there would be benefits to property, and found also the
amounts that the property would be benefited, "apportioned
and assessed such amounts so found to be a benefit to the
property upon the several lots, plots, tracts and parcels of
land, in the proportion of which they were severally benefited by such improvements." It was further found that no
lot was assessed for a greater amount than it was actually

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

214 U. S.

benefited. It may be that it is an answer to appellants' contention, and counsel recognize that it may be an answer, that
appellants did not avail themselves of the remedy afforded
by the law, that is, did not appeal from the order of the city
council confirming the assessment. The finding of the court,
however, is undoubtedly an answer to the contention if the
commissioners were legally appointed. Of this there is a
diversity of views between appellants and appellee, the appellants contending that paragraph 471 (§ 7) of the Revised
Statutes of the Territory controls. It provides that the common council shall appoint three of its members, or any three
competent persons, to "make examinations of the premises
to be affected and make an assessment of the improvements
contemplated." The appellee contends that paragraph 471 is
not applicable, but that paragraph 467 controls. By that
paragraph, when the improvements contemplated "require
the taking or damaging of property, the proceedings for making just compensation therefor shall be the same as provided
in title 21" of the Revised Statutes. Such proceedings were
taken and in course of them the court appointed commissioners who, we have seen, examined the locality of the improvements and assessed the amount due from the property
benefited. That this was the legal course to pursue was the
view of the officers concerned with the administration of the
law, including the court in which the proceedings for condemnation of the property were conducted, and, it may be inferred,
was also the view of the Supreme Court of the Territory. The
statute will bear that construction, and even if plausible objections can be urged against it, under the authorities which we
have cited, we would not be justified in pronouncing itincorrect.
It is assigned as error that the trial court erred in not finding that no notice was given of the meetings of the common
council upon the confirmation proceedings. The statute does
not provide for notice of the meeting of the common council.
It does provide for a notice of the meeting of the commissioners, and this notice was given, and it is found by the Su-

ENGLISH v. ARIZONA.
214 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

preme Court that Allen H. English appeared, through his
attorney or agent, and made a formal protest against his assessment, but did not produce any witnesses nor did he specify. any ground of objection. The law charged appellants with
notice that the report would be presented to the common council and the report was actually filed with the common council
.a few days after the hearing. We think they were bound to
take notice of this action. Lander v. Mercantile National
Bank, 186 U. S. 458. See Weyerhaueser v. Minnesota, 176
U. S. 550. The record shows besides that English was a promoter of the improvement. It is true that he appeared before
the commissioners and protested against his assessment, but
he not only gave no reason for the protest, but his attorney
expressly stated that the "protest was made for the sole purpose of saving the question of review," and that he "did not
wish to intimate that he had any objection, but wanted to
save his right in case he should have any." And it is found by
the court that he knew of the enactment of the ordinance providing for the collection of the assessments and the issuing of
bonds to pay for the improvement, that he interested himself
in the sale of the bonds, and assisted in disposing of the same.
There is, therefore, ground for the contention that such conduct constituted a waiver of all objections to the assessments.
It certainly precludes him from saying that he had no notice
of the proceedings before the common council. Wight v.
Davidson, 181 U. S. 371.
Appellants pleaded that there was another action pending
for the collection of the assessment against them, brought by
the city of Tucson, and though conceding that the pleas were
defective, urge that they were sufficient to put the court upon
notice that the pending suit was not brought by the real party
in interest, and that such party was the city of Tucson. The
contention, however, is but a phase of the question that the
general revenue law of the Territory was not repealed. There
are other contentions, but they are without substantial merit.
Judgment affirmed.

