OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Syllabus.

214 U. S.

BONG, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, v. ALFRED S. CAMPBELL ART COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND
CIRCUIT.

No. 150. Argued April 15, 1909.-Decided May 24, 1909.
Under § 4952, Rev. Stat., as amended by the act of March 3, 1891,
c. 565, 26 Stat. 1106, the assignee of an author of a painting is not
entitled to copyright unless the author is a citizen of a country to the
citizens of which reciprocal copyright privileges have actually been
extended by proclamation of the President in conformity with § 13
of the act of March 3, 1891. The fact that the assignee is a citizen of
such a country does not entitle him to copyright.
An assignee within the meaning of the copyright statute is one who receives a transfer not necessarily of the painting but of the right to
multiply copies thereof, and such right depends not only upon the
statute but is derived also from the painter, who must have the
right to copyright in order to assign it.
A citizen of a country not in copyright relations with the United States
under § 13 of the act of 1891 is not entitled to avail of the copyright
because his country is a member of the Montevideo Union.
The provision in § 13 of the act of 1891, providing that the President
on determining certain conditions extend the privileges of copyright
to citizens of countries which are parties to a copyright union to
which the United States may become a party is not directory and
confers no rights independent of the President's proclamation.
Where a statute contemplates reciprocity of rights the President is the
best fitted officer to determine whether the conditions on which
reciprocity depends exist; and this court approves the construction
given by the State Department and the Librarian of Congress to the
copyright statutes as denying copyright protection to Peru, no proclamation extending copyright to the citizens of that country having
ever been made by the President.
Where the head of a department of the Government is authorized
to make regulations in aid of a law, he cannot make regulations
which defeat it. Williamson v. United States, 207 U. S. 425.
The practice of disposing of cases on the opening of counsel is generally
an unsafe method of procedure; the case should be developed by the
evidence. Hoffman House v. Foote, 172 N. Y. 348, approved.
155 Fed. Rep. 116, affirmed.

BONG v. CAMPBELL ART CO.
214 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

THE facts, which involve the construction of the international and reciprocity provisions of the Copyright Act, are
stated in the opinion.

Mr. Max J. Kohler for plaintiff in error:
The plain and unambiguous language of the act of March 3,
1891, confers copyright where the person applying for the same
as proprietor or assign of the author or proprietor is a subject
of a country with which we have copyright relations, whether
the author be a subject of one of those countries or not.
Section 13 of the act of 1891 is satisfied if the "proprietor"
or "assign" taking out the copyright is a citizen of a country
with which we have copyright relations.
Section 4952, as amended in 1891, authorizes either the
"author" or "proprietor" of a work or his "assigns," to copyright the same. The only limitation is in § 13, which provides
that this shall only "apply to a citizen or a subject of a foreign state" as to which the President has issued his proclamation. There is no suggestion of any limitation to citizenship
of country of production, and the only statute that had contained any such limitation, § 4971, was expressly repealed.
The limiting of statutory copyright to work of Americans
(Yuengling v. Schile, 12 Fed. Rep. 97) was expressly abandoned by Congress. Werciomeister v. Pierce, 63 Fed. Rep. 445;
Merriam Co. v. Dictionary Co., 146 Fed. Rep. 354; aff'd 208
U. S. 260; Oliver Ditson Co. v. Littleton, 62 Fed. Rep. 597.
The only case which seems to have considered the branch of
the statute here involved is BritannicaCo. v. Werner Co., 135
Fed. Rep. 841, where Judge Lanning, in a case involving a
book, paraphrased the statute as here contended for.
Since § 4952 was first enacted in the revision of July 8, 1870,
the "proprietor " or "assign" of the author, as well as the
author himself, has been permitted to take out a copyright in
his own name. The act of 1870, expressly interpolated the
word "proprietor" when paintings were first made copyrightable. 16 Stat. 212; Solberg on Copyright, 46; Am. Tobacco

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

214 U. S.

Co. v. Werckmeister, 207 U. S. 284, 296, 299; affi'g 146 Fed.
Rep. 375; Werckmeister v. Pierce, 63 Fed. Rep. 445, 449;
Werckmeister v. Springer Co., 63 Fed. Rep. 808; Werckmeister
v. Am. Lith. Co., 142 Fed. Rep. 827,830; aff'd 146 Fed. Rep.
377; Miffin v. White Co., 190 U. S. 260; Lawrence v. Dana, 4
Cliff. 1; Partonv. Prang, 3 Cliff. 537; Callaghanv. Myers, 128
U. S. 617, 658.
The copyright law contains at present no limitation as to
country of production of the work and § 13 has nothing to
apply to except the provisions of § 4952, amended at the same
time this statute was adopted, and establishing the rights of
persons to take out copyrights, either as "author," "proprietor" or "assign," and it seems obvious that the law requires
merely that the person taking out the copyright must be a
citizen of such country, irrespective of the nationality of the
author.
The experience and legislation of the rest of the civilized
world, antedating the framing of this act, led to the adoption
by them of a policy protecting works published in a country,
as well as those by native authors or artists, and it was undoubtedly the purpose of Congress to adopt such policy.
Public policy does not require a strict construction of our
copyright protection to citizens or "proclaimed" authors. In
fact it is the consensus of opinion abroad that it is unwise to
pursue a retaliatory policy in copyright matters and certainly
the United States cannot afford to welcome such policy. The
British copyright commission of 1878 advised against such
course with particular reference to the United States.
Something was said on the trial as to an alleged construction
by the Librarian of Congress of our copyright laws against recognizing rights based upon assignments from authors who are
citizens of countries not covered by proclamations. The fact
of such construction is challenged; to counsel's own knowledge a copyright was granted after consideration of this question in 1901, some years before the copyright proclamation as
to China, for a work by a Chinese author, the manuscript of

BONG v. CAMPBELL ART CO.
214 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

which had been assigned to an American, A. S. Taylor. The
copyright bureau in fact has stated that the question is a
doubtful one requiring determination. (Report on copyright
legislation by the Register of Copyrights for the year ending
June 30, 1903, pp. 10, 11). If there be any such construction
it is obviously wrong and is not uniform, long established nor
reasonable, so as to be entitled to any weight as an alleged
departmental construction. United States v. Graham, 110
U. S. 219; United States v. Tanner, 147 U. S. 661. Nor, as he
himself conceded, is the Librarian of Congress given any discretionary power, but he is a mere ministerial officer (Report
cited, supra, pp. 31, 32).
Even before the international copyright law amendment of
1891, the proprietor of a painting who was himself a citizen or
resident of the United States, could have secured a copyright,
even though the artist may have been a non-resident alien,
but the rule was different as to books and other articles enumerated in § 4971, because of the express provisions of that
section.
But defendant argued below, chiefly on the assumption that
Mr. Hernandez's assignment to Mr. Bong passed nothing, because Mr. Hernandez himself could not have secured a copyright under our statutes, under the act of March 3, 1891, because a Peruvian, and such is the reasoning of the Circuit
Court of Appeals.
In the light of the laws of foreign countries and the Berne
convention, which were carefully studied by the lawmakers,
it seems obvious that the removal of an alien's lack of capacity
to copyright was cured by assignment or descent from the
alien; disability by assignment was expressly intended by
Congress in the international copyright act, just as had been
done in terms in foreign countries, where the limitation to
native "authors" had been abolished.
The language of our copyright law is unmistakable and
unambiguous in making right to copyright turn simply on the
citizenship of the person taking out the copyright.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

214 U. S.

Mr. Bong, before he sought his Federal copyright, and published the painting under those limitations in photogravure
reproductions, could have enjoined defendant's infringement
as a violation of his common-law copyright rights, and in the
Federal court, because of jurisdiction based on his alienage.
The copyright act in exchange for publication, gave him a
statutory copyright for a limited period, upon compliance
with its terms.
The common-law copyright rights, before publication, of
the painter or owner of a painting or other copyrightable objects, are of course well established. Werckmeister v. Am.
Lith. Co., 134 Fed. Rep. 321; aff'd 207 U. S. 284; Parton v.
Prang, 3 Cliff. 537; Werckmeister v. Am. Lith. Co., 142 Fed.
Rep. 827; aff'd 146 Fed. Rep. 377; Turner v. Robinson, 10 Ir.
Ch. Rep. 121, 510; Oertel v. Wood, 40 How. Pr. 10; Prince Albert v. Strange, 2 De Gex & Smale, 652; Press Pub. Co. v. Monroe, 73 Fed. Rep. 196; appeal dismissed, 164 U. S. 105; Palmer v. De Witt, 47 N. Y. 532; Thomas v. Lennon, 14 Fed.
Rep. 849; Iolanthe Case, 15 Fed. Rep. 439; Mikado Case, 25
Fed. Rep. 183; Globe Co. v. Walker, 210 U. S. 356.
See also Mansell v. Valley Printing Co. (1908), 1 Ch. 198;
aff'd (1908) 2 Ch. 441, in which the English court has held
that as to paintings, the common-law copyright subsisted until
publication, unlike printed books.
This rule of law as to common-law copyright is not limited
in any way under the American authorities, to productions by
American authors or painters. 7 Am. & Eng. Ency. of Law,
519; Palmer v. De Witt, 47 N. Y. 532; Crowe v. Aiken, 2
Biss. 208; Keene v. Wheatly, 14 Fed. Cas. 7,644; Thomas v.
Lennon, 14 Fed. Rep. 849; Tompkins v. Halleck, 133 Massachusetts, 32; French v. Maguire, 55 How. Pr. 471; Shook v. Daly,
49 How. Pr. 366.
The convention with Germany referred to in the President's
proclamation, specified in the complaint, requires a liberal
construction in favor of the German assignee's rights.
The court's argument below that because colorable assign-

BONG v. CAMPBELL ART CO.
214 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

ments might be resorted to, the statute should be construed
to deny copyright to works produced by citizens of countries
outside the President's copyright proclamation, is untenable.
Carte v. Evans, 27 Fed. Rep. 861; Black v. Allen Co., 42 Fed.
Rep. 618.
The direction of a verdict was not based, nor is it sustainable, on the theory that plaintiff, apart from the alienage question, had no copyrightable interest in the painting
A transfer of common-law copyright in a painting entitles
the transferee to take out a copyright, though he does not own
the physical painting. This question was still doubtful when
this case was tried below. Am. Tobacco Co. v. Werckmeister,
207 U. S. 284, 296-299; aff'g 146 Fed. Rep. 375.
An assignee of the American copyright rights is entitled in his
own behalf to copyright the painting. Cases cited, supra, and
Goldmark v. Kreling, 35 Fed. Rep. 651; Merriam Co. v. United
Dictionary Co., 146 Fed. Rep. 354; Werckmeister v. Springer
Co., 63 Fed. Rep. 808; Palmerv. De Witt, 47 N. Y. 541.
Such is the usual course with respect to transfer of American
rights. Even if the copyright were held in part by him for the
benefit of persons other than plaintiff, he would be entitled to
take out the copyright in his own name. Press Pub. Co. v.
Folk, 59 Fed. Rep. 324; Lawrence v. Dana, 15 Fed. Cas.
8,136; Wooster v. Crane 147 Fed. Rep. 515; Goldmark v. Kreling, 35 Fed. Rep. 661; 7 Am. & Eng. Ency. of Law, 2d ed.,
545; Miffin v. White Co., 190 U. S. 260; Ford v. Blaney Co.,
148 Fed. Rep. 642; Harper v. Donohue & Co., 144 Fed. Rep.
491, 494; Osgood v. Felsenheld (Imperial Court of Germany).
The construction placed by the State Department on § 13 of
the act of March 3, 1891, is erroneous, and even Hernandez,
as a subject of Peru, which country belongs to the Montevideo
International Copyright Union, was entitled to a statutory
copyright in his own right. Morrill v. Jones, 106 U. S. 466;
Campbell v. United States, 107 U. S. 407, 410; United States v.
Dominci, 78 Fed. Rep. 334; Buttfield v. Stranahan, 192 U. S,
470, 496; Williamson v. United States, 207 U. S. 425, 461,
VOL, CcxIv-16

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

214 U. S.

Mr. George Ryall for defendant in error:
Hernandez, being a citizen and subject of Peru, could not
have obtained a copyright in this country, and most assuredly
he could not assign a right which never existed. Werclkmeister
v. Springer Lith. Co., 63 Fed. Rep. 808; Werckmeister v. Am.
Lith. Co., 142 Fed, Rep. 827.
The Librarian of Congress has always construed our statute
as denying to citizens of Peru copyright protection, and that
the assignee of one who could not obtain a copyright could not
obtain one; and it is respectfully submitted that this construction of the statute is most reasonable, well established, and
entitled to great weight as a departmental construction.
United States v. Graham, 110 U. S. 219; United States v. Tanner, 117 U. S. 661.
In answer to the first point on the brief of the plaintiff in
error, the defendant calls attention again to the fact that the
artist, Hernandez, when he assigned to the plaintiff Bong, had
no assignable interest and that consequently the assignee Bong
took nothing by the assignment. This position stands out
clearly in Werckmeister v. Pierce& Bushnell, 63 Fed. Rep. 445449.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action under the copyright statutes to recover
penalties and forfeitures for the infringement of a copyright
of a painting.
The complaint shows the following facts: Plaintiff in error
(as he was plaintiff in the trial court we shall refer to him hereafter as plaintiff, and to defendant in error as defendant) was
a citizen and subject of the German Empire and resident of the
city of Berlin, that nation being one which permits to citizens
of the United States the benefit of copyright on substantially
the same basis as its own citizens. It is a party to an international agreement which provides for reciprocity in the granting of copyright, by the terms of which agreement the United
States may at its pleasure become a party, the existence of

BONG v. CAMPBELL ART CO.
214 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

which condition has been determined by the President of the
United States by proclamation duly made. April 15, 1892, 27
Stat. 1021. The defendant is a New Jersey corporation doing
business in New York under the laws of the latter State.
In 1899 one Daniel Hernandez painted and designed a painting called "Dolce far niente," he then being a citizen and subject of Spain, which nation permits the benefit of copyright to
citizens of the United States on substantially the same basis
as its own citizens, as has been determined by the proclamation of the President of the United States. July 10, 1895, 29
Stat. 871. Prior to November 8, 1902, plaintiff became the sole
proprietor of said painting by due assignment pursuant to law.
About said date plaintiff applied for a copyright, in conformity
with the laws of the United States respecting copyrights, before
the publication of the painting or any copy thereof. Plaintiff
inscribed, and has kept inscribed, upon a visible portion of the
painting the words "Copyright by Rich Bong," and also upon
every copy thereof. By reason of the premises, it is alleged,
plaintiff became and was entitled for the term of twenty-eight
years to the sole liberty of printing, reprinting, publishing and
vending the painting. A violation of the copyright by defendant is alleged by printing, exposing for sale and selling copies
of the painting under the name of "Sunbeam," by Hernandez,
and that defendant has in its possession over 1,000 copies. By
reason of the premises, it is alleged, and under § 4965 of the
Revised Statutes of the United States, as amended by the act
of March 2, 1891, defendant has forfeited the plates on which
the painting is copied and every sheet thereof copied or
printed, and $10 for every copy of the same in its possession
and by it sold or exposed for sale, not more, however, than
$10,000, whereof one-half shall go to plaintiff and the other
half to the United States. Judgment of forfeiture is prayed.
Defendant answered, admitting that it was a corporation as
alleged, and was doing business in New York. It denied,
either absolutely or upon information and belief, all other
allegations,

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
214 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The court directed a verdict for the defendant, counsel for
the plaintiff having stated in his opening, as it is admitted,
that he would offer no evidence to establish the citizenship of
Hernandez, and would not controvert the statement made by
the defense that he was a citizen of Peru (it was alleged in the
complaint that he was a citizen of Spain), as to which country
the President had issued no copyright proclamation. It is
also admitted that plaintiff never owned the "physical painting." There was introduced in evidence a conveyance of the
right to enter the painting for copyright protection in America
and the exclusive right of reproduction in colors and of engraving, etching, lithography, in black and in colors. The
right of photography and reproduction by all photographic
monochrome processes was reserved.
The ruling of the District Court, and that of the Court of
Appeals sustaining it, were based on the ground that Hernandez, being a citizen of Peru and not having the right of copyright in the United States, could convey no right to plaintiff.
Plaintiff attacks this ruling and contends that the act of
March 3, 1891, "confers copyright where the person applying
for the same as proprietor or assign of the author or proprietor
is a subject of a country with which we have copyright relations, whether the author be a subject of one of those countries
or not."
Whatever strength there is in the contention must turn upon
the words of the statute conferring the copyright. Section 4952
of the Revised Statutes, as amended by the act of March 3,
1891 (c. 565,26 Stat. 1106, 1 Sup. Rev. St. 951),reads as follows:
"The author, inventor, designer or proprietor of any book,
map, chart,

.

.

.

painting

.

.

.

and the executors,

administrators and assigns of any such person shall, upon complying with the provisions of this chapter, have the sole liberty of printing, reprinting, publishing, completing, copying,
executing, finishing and vending the same," etc.
Other sections prescribe the proceedings to be taken to secure copyright, and § 13 provides as follows (26 Stat. 1110):

BONG v. CAMPBELL ART CO.
214 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

"That this act shall only apply to a citizen or subject of a
foreign state or nation when such foreign state or nation permits to citizens of the United States of America the benefit of
copyright on substantially the same basis as its own citizens,
or when such foreign state or nation is a party to an international agreement which provides for reciprocity in the granting
of copyright, by the terms of which agreement the United
States of America may at its pleasure become a party to such
agreement. The existence of either of the conditions aforesaid shall be determined by the President of the United States
by proclamation made, from time to time, as the purposes of
this act may require." 1 Sup. Rev. St. p. 954.
Plaintiff urges that he is "the 'assign' of the author and
proprietor of the painting . . . and being himself a 'citizen or subject of a foreign nation' with which we have copyright relations," the condition of the statute is satisfied, and
his copyright is valid, though Hernandez was not such citizen
or subject. In other words, though the author of a painting
has not the right to copyright, his assignee has if he is a citizen
or subject of a foreign state with which we have copyright
relations, these being, it is contended, the conditions expressed
in § 13. Counsel's argument in support of this contention is
able, but we are saved from a detailed consideration of it by
the decision of this court in American Tobacco Company v.
Werciomeister, 207 U. S.284. In that case we said that "the
purpose of the copyright law is not so much the protection
and control of the visible thing, as to secure a monopoly, having a limited time, of the right to publish the production, which
is the result of the inventor's thought." In considering who
was entitled to such right under the statute we defined the
word "assigns," as used in the statute. We said: "It seems
clear that the word 'assigns' in this section is not used as descriptive of the character of the estate which the 'author,
inventor, designer or proprietor' may acquire under the statutes, for the 'assigns' of any such person, as well as the persons themselves, may, 'upon complying with the provisions

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

214 U. S.

of this chapter, have the sole liberty of printing, publishing
and vending the same.' This would seem to demonstrate the
intention of Congress to vest in 'assigns,' before copyright, the
same privilege of subsequently acquiring complete statutory
copyright as the original author, inventor, dealer or proprietor," and there was an explicit definition of the right transferred as follows: "While it is true that the property in copyright in this country is the creature of the statute, the nature
and character of the property grows out of the recognition of
the separate ownership of the right of copying from that which
inheres in the mere physical control of the thing itself, and the
statute must be read in the light of the intention of Congress to
protect these intangible rights as a reward of the inventive
genius that has produced the work." In other words, an assignee within the meaning of the statute is one who receives a
transfer, not necessarily of the painting but of the right to multiply copies of it. And such right does not depend alone upon
the statute, as contended by plaintiff, but is a right derived
from the painter and secured by the statute to the assignee of
the painter's right. Of this the opinion leaves no doubt, for it
is further said: "We think every consideration of the nature of
the property and the things to be accomplished support the
conclusion that this statute means to give to the assignees of
the original owner of the right to copyright an article [italics
ours], the right to take out the copyright secured by the statute independently of the ownership of the article itself." The
same idea was repeated when the court came to consider
whether the exhibition of the painting, which was the subjectmatter of the case, in the Royal Gallery, constituted a general
publication which deprived the painter, as the owner of the
copyright, of the benefit of the statutory provision. It was
said: "Considering this feature of the case, it is well to remember that the property of the author or painter in his intellectual
creation is absolute until he voluntarily parts with the same."
And the painter had the right of copyright, he being a subject
of Great Britain, that country having copyright relations with

BONG v. CAMPBELL ART CO.
214 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the United States. His assignee, Werckmeister, was also a
citizen of a country having copyright relations with us. But
it was the right of the painter which was made prominent in
the case and determined its decision.
It was not an abstract right the court passed on, one that
arose simply from ownership of the painting. It was the right
given by the statute, and which, when transferred, constituted
the person to whom it was transferred an assignee under the
statute and of the rights which the statute conferred on the
assignor. "It is the physical thing created, or the right of
printing, publishing, copying, etc., which is within the statutory protection." It is this right of multiplication of copies
that is asserted in the case at bar, and it is not necessary to
consider what right plaintiff might have had under the common law "before he sought his Federal copyright and published the painting." See White-Smith Music Co. v. Apollo
Co., 209 U. S. 1.
It is next contended that Hernandez, as a subject of Peru,
was entitled to a statutory copyright in his own right, because,
as it is further contended, Peru belongs to the Montevideo International Union. This contention is based on the words of
§ 13, supra, which gives the right of copyright to a citizen or
subject of a foreign state or nation when such state or nation
"is a party to an international agreement which provides for
reciprocity in the granting of copyright, by the terms of which
agreement the United States of America may, at its pleasure,
become a party to such agreement." If this were all there
were in the statute, the contention of the plaintiff might have
some foundation. The statute, however, provides that the
existence of such condition "shall be determined by the President of the United States by proclamation, made from time
to time, as the purposes" of the "act may require." It is insisted, however, that this provision is directory and a right is
conferred independent of the action of the President, his proclamation being only a convenient mode of proving the fact.
We cannot concur in this view, nor do the cases cited by plain-

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

214 U. S.

tiff sustain it. In Morrill v. Jones, 106 U. S. 466; Campbell v.
United States, 107 U. S. 407; Williamson v. United States, 207
U. S. 425, this court decided that where the Secretary of the
Treasury or Secretary of the Interior is authorized to make
regulations in aid of the law, he cannot make regulations
which defeat the law. In Buttfiteld V. Stranahan, 192 U. S.
470, a regulation of the Secretary of the Treasury fixed the
primary standard of imported tea, and was sustained as an
"executive duty to effectuate the legislative policy declared
in the statute."
It is admitted that the decision of the State Department is
adverse to the contention, and, it is asserted by defendant and
not denied by plaintiff, that the Librarian of Congress has
always construed the statutes as denying to citizens of Peru
copyright protection. We think, besides, the statute is clear
and makes the President's proclamation a condition of the
right. And there was reason for it. The statute contemplated
a reciprocity of rights, and what officer is better able to determine the conditions upon which they might depend than
the President?
On the record, we think there was no error in directing a
verdict on the opening statement of counsel. We agree, however, with plaintiff that it is better to let a case be developed
by evidence. In Hoffman House v. Foote, 172 N. Y. 348, it
was pertinently said: "The practice of disposing of cases upon
the mere opening of counsel is generally a very unsafe method
of deciding controversies where there is or was anything to
decide."'
Judgment affirmed.

