WHITCOMB v. WHITE.
214 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

viewed by proceedings in mandamus. In re Pollitz, 206 U. S.
323, 331; In re Winn, 213 U. S. 458.
The rule is discharged and the writ of mandamus denied.

WHITCOMB v. WHITE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF IDAHO.
No. 185.

Argued April 28, 29, 1909.-Decided May 17, 1909.

Where a decision of the Land Department rests on the priority of
equitable rights of a contestant it is conclusive upon the courts so
far as it involves questions of fact; and on a mixed question of law
and fact it is conclusive unless the court can so separate the question
that the mistake of law is clearly apparent.
Where the controversy in the Land Department involves the question
of whether the first occupant occupied the land for homestead or
town-site entry, and there is evidence to support the Secretary's
finding, that finding is conclusive on the courts even though the
evidence be conflicting.
13 Idaho, 490, affirmed.
THIS was an action brought by John E. White and Roberta
B. White, his wife, in the District Court of the First Judicial
District of the State of Idaho, in and for the county of Kootenai, to recover the possession of the "northwest quarter of the
southwest quarter and lots five (5), six (6) and seven (7), of
section two (2), township fifty-five (55) north of range two
(2), east Boise meridian."
The defendants' answer was in the nature of a cross bill in
equity, admitting that the legal title to the premises was in
the plaintiffs, and seeking to charge them as holders of that
title in trust for the use and benefit of the defendants. A
trial before the court without a jury resulted in a judgment
for the plaintiffs for the recovery of possession and damages

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

214 U. S.

for the detention. On appeal to the Supreme Court of the
State the award of damages was set aside but the judgment
for the recovery of possession was affirmed. Thereupon the
case was brought here on error.
The plaintiffs' title was a patent from the United States to
plaintiff John E. White based upon a homestead entry. The
defendants claimed to have been occupants of the premises as
a townsite, and that therefore the land was not subject to
entry as a homestead. The application for the homestead
entry was formally made at the land office a few hours before
that of the probate judge of the county, acting under the
statutes as trustee for the occupants of the townsite. A contest was had in the local land office, which resulted in a finding in favor of the plaintiff John E. White. This decision
was sustained by the Commissioner of the General Land Office and affirmed by the Secretary of the Interior.
Mr. Albert Allen, for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. George H. Lamar, with whom Mr. H. M. Stephens was
on the brief, for defendants in error.
MR.

JUSTICE BREWER,

after making the foregoing state-

ment, delivered the opinion of the court.
The decision of the Land Department was not rested solely
upon the fact that White's formal application was filed a few
hours before that of the trustee for the occupants of the townsite, but rather chiefly upon the priority of the former's
equitable rights. So far as such decision involves questions
of fact it is conclusive upon the courts. Johnson v. Towsley,
13 Wall. 72, 86; Shepley v. Cowan, 91 U. S. 330, 340; Marquez
v. Frisbie, 101 U. S. 473, 476; Quinby v. Conlan, 104 U. S. 420,
425, 426; Burfenning v. C., St. P., M. & 0. Ry., 163 U. S. 321,
323; De Cambra v. Rogers, 189 U. S. 119, 120.
And this rule is applied in cases where there is a mixed

WHITCOMB v. WHITE.
214 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

question of law and fact, unless the court is able to so separate
the question as to see clearly what and where the mistake of
law is. As said by Mr. Justice Miller in Marquez v. Frisbie,
supra, p. 476:
"This means, and it is, a sound principle, that where there
is a mixed question of law and of fact, and the court cannot so
separate it as to see clearly where the mistake of law is, the
decision of the tribunal to which the law has confided the matter is conclusive." Quinby v. Conlan, supra, 426.
Further, the thirty-eighth and thirty-ninth findings of the
trial court, which were not disturbed by the Supreme Court in
its opinion, were:
"38. That the officers of the Interior Department did not
exclude any testimony, and there was in said Land Office and
said department a full, fair and complete hearing.
"39. That the officers of said Interior Department, of said
Land Office, or any or either of them, were not guilty of any
fraud or any unlawful conduct."
Clearly the findings of the Land Department cannot be disregarded, especially since they are reinforced by the judgment
of the State courts. This court ought not to reverse such
judgment except upon the clearest and most convincing evidence of mistake or injustice.
These are among the matters shown by the testimony and
upon which the decisions of the Land Department and the
State court were based: While the entire quarter-section was
public land, and before settlement by any individual, the
Northern Pacific constructed its road, crossing Clark's Fork
of the Columbia River near the tract. At that time the public
surveys had not been extended over this region; indeed, were
not so extended until 1893, and the approved plat of the township was not filed in the local land office until November 27,
1895, the day the formal applications of these parties were
made. Between 1884 and 1890 some four or five persons settled on the tract, who, with others, at the time of the application for the townsite entry, in 1895, claimed to be then 0cVOL. CCXIV-2

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

214 U. S.

cupying it for the purposes of trade and business, and to have
established a town, which they called Clark's Fork. The right
of way of the Northern Pacific was 400 feet in width (13 Stat.
365), and, at first, the houses were upon this right of way, the
settlers believing that it was only 200 feet in width. The original occupants were not seeking to establish a town, but to
enter the land as a homestead. The first attempt to obtain
title to the tract in controversy under the town-site laws was
made on October 29, 1895, when a petition signed by ten persons was filed with the probate judge of the county, asking
him to secure the tract as a town site. 28 L. D. 412, 415. In
1890 the plaintiff White was the station agent of the Northern
Pacific at that place, and in 1891 settled upon the land, making his home outside the right of way, and intending to enter
it as a homestead. There was talk between him and some of
the other occupants in reference to an apportionment of the
quarter-section between them, but no agreement was reached.
In other words, the occupation at first was with no thought of
a town, but by parties contemplating securing homes under
the homestead law. After it had been ascertained that the
railroad right of way was 400 feet in width, and in 1893, the
settlers were notified by the railroad company of its title.
Thereupon some leased from the company while others moved
their houses off the company's ground. Under those circumstances questions of fact arose as to the first occupant,
and for what purpose he occupied it. In deciding the contest
the Secretary of the Interior held (28 L. D. 412, 421):
"In the case at bar, at the time of the survey in the field,
White was the only settler on this subdivision except Whitcomb, the other parties at that time being located on the right
of way, and as to them White's right, as a prior settler, attached to the entire tract from such time. Any right Whitcomb may have had as a homestead settler by reason of his
settlement before survey in the field is lost by his failure to
assert the same Under the homestead law.
"The evidence shows that after the survey in the field

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION v. ST. JOHN.
214 U. S.

Syllabus.

White made claim to the entire tract and exercised rights of
ownership over the same. It was necessary for him to adjust
his settlement claim to the lines of the public survey, and in
so doing to include the legal subdivision on which his improvements were placed."
Notwithstanding some conflict in the testimony, there was
abundant to support the findings of the Secretary of the Interior, and, as heretofore stated, such findings of facts are to
be regarded as conclusive in any controversy in the courts.
There was no error in the decision of the Supreme Court of
Idaho, and its judgment is
Affirmed.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION v. ST. JOHN, EXECUTOR

OF WALLACE C. ANDREWS, DECEASED.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.

No. 613.

Argued April 5, 6, 1909.-Decided May 17, 1909.

Qucere: Where a petition to the highest court of the State for rehearing asserts that a Federal question had been set up in the brief and
arguments is simply denied with the statement that no Federal
question had been raised in that court, whether this court has
jurisdiction to review the judgment on writ of error.
This court cannot decline jurisdiction when it is plain that the fair result of a decision of the state court is to deny a constitutional right.
Rogers v. Alabama, 192 U. S. 226.
It is as obligatory upon the courts of a State to give the same full
force and effect to the constitution of another State as it must give
to its judicial proceedings. Chicago & Alton Railroad v. Wiggins
Ferry Co., 119 U. S. 615.
The mere construction, even if erroneous, by a state court of the
statute or, as in this case, of a provision of the constitution of
another State does not deny to it the full faith and credit demanded
by the Federal Constitution,

