COLLINS v. O'NEIL.
214 U. S.

Syllabus.

view of the latter court was that a correct translation showed
the intention of the testatrix to dispose of all her property, or,
as the court said, "also all the other property known to be
mine."
As the two courts below have determined the question of
fact, we follow our usual course in such cases and adopt the
translation of the will which they have adopted.
The legal question then arising is, what did the testatrix
mean by her will? Her intention is to be derived from her
language, and we are of opinion that the lower court was correct in its construction as given to us.
A perusal of the will as translated and adopted by the courts
below leaves us in no doubt that the testatrix's intention was
to give to her husband, not only the property which she left
situated at Kalaupapa, but also all other property owned by
her, wherever it might be situated and whatever it might be.
We do not think she intended to die intestate as to any portion of her property, or to limit her bounty to her husband to
such property only as was situated at Kalaupapa.
The decree of the Supreme Court of the Territory is there-

fore

Affirmed.
COLLINS v. O'NEIL, SHERIFF.

C-

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.

SAME v. THE SHERIFF OF THE CITY AND COUNTY OF
SAN FRANCISCO.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.

Nos. 241, 320.

Argued April 5, 1909.-Decided May 17, 1909.

Where a provision in a treaty or convention is plain it must receive a
reasonable and sensible construction, and not one which it is impossible to conceive that the representatives of civilized countries
would enter into.
VOL. CCXIV-8

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Statement of the Case.

214 U. S.

The rule that a person extradited under treaty provisions cannot be
tried for an offense other than that for which he was extradited until after he has had opportunity to leave the country to which he
was surrendered does not apply to an offense committed after he arrives in the latter country. United States v. Rauscher, 119 U. S. 407.
Whether a person extradited and who thereafter commits a crime in
the country to which he is surrendered shall be first tried for the
earlier or later crime is a matter wholly within the jurisdiction of the
country to which he is surrendered and is of no interest to the surrendering country.
A fugitive from justice has no inherent right of asylum; his rights in
that respect depend wholly upon the treaty between the countries
demanding and surrendering him.
Under the treaty of 1842 and convention of 1889 with Great Britain
a surrendered person can be tried for an offense committed in this
country after his arrival; and the trial for such offense does not have
to await the conclusion of the trial of the offense for which he was
surrendered; and so held that one who, on the trial of the offense for
which he was surrendered and which resulted in a disagreement,
committed perjury could be indicted and tried for that offense without being allowed an opportunity to leave this country and without waiting for the final conclusion of the trial for the crime for
which he was surrendered.
151 California, 340, and 154 Fed. Rep. 980, affirmed.
IN No. 241, the plaintiff in error, being imprisoned in the
county jail of San Francisco, in the State of California, by the
sheriff, applied to the Supreme Court of that State in bane for
a writ of habeas corpus to obtain his discharge from imprisonment. The writ was granted, and after hearing was dismissed,
and the petitioner remanded to the custody of the sheriff.
151 California, 340. A writ of error was then sued out from
this court and the case brought here.
In No. 320 the appellant applied to the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Northern District of California for a
similar writ, which was issued, and a hearing had and the writ
dismissed by the court. 149 Fed. Rep. 573; and see 151 Fed.
Rep. 358; 154 Fed. Rep. 980. From the order of dismissal an
appeal was allowed to this court. The two cases have been
heard here as one.

COLLINS v. O'NEIL.
214 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

The material facts are these: On July 13, 1905, an indictment was found by the grand jury of San Francisco county,
California, against the plaintiff in error, charging him with the
crime of perjury, alleged to have been committed in San Francisco on June 30 of that year. The plaintiff in error not being
found within the State, it was subsequently discovered was in
Victoria, British Columbia, and proper demand, under the
treaty between the United States and Great Britain, being
made for his surrender upon that indictment for trial, he was,
on October 7, 1905, duly surrendered, and removed from
Victoria by one Gibson, the agent designated in the Canadian
extradition warrant, to San Francisco, where he was placed
in the custody of the then sheriff, who also had a bench warrant issued from the Superior Court on the perjury indictment against the plaintiff in error.
His trial upon the indictment upon which he had been extradited began in San Francisco in December, 1905, and resulted in the disagreement of the jury on the twenty-third of
December of that year, and the case was then continued, to
be thereafter reset for trial. Upon the trial of the indictment
for which plaintiff in error was extradited he was himself
sworn, and testified as a witness, and on the twenty-ninth of
December, 1905, after he had given such evidence, he was indicted again by the grand jury of San Francisco county, the
indictment charging him with perjury committed on December 12, 1905, while testifying on his own behalf on the trial, as
already stated. He was arraigned on this indictment in
January, 1906, and after he had made all objections to his
being arraigned or placed on trial on this second indictment
until the conclusion of the first, and until he had then been afforded opportunity to return to Victoria, he was, nevertheless, brought to the bar and the trial proceeded with, resulting in a verdict of guilty on February 27, 1906, upon which
judgment was entered that he be imprisoned in the state
prison for the term of fourteen years.
From that judgment he appealed to the District Court of

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error and Appellant.

214 U. S.

Appeals of California, where it was affirmed, and 'thereafter
he applied to the state Supreme Court for a rehearing by that
court, which was denied. People v. Collins, 6 California App.
492; S.C., 92 Pac. Rep. 513.
Thereupon the plaintiff in error, being restrained of his
liberty, as well under the judgment of conviction, as otherwise under the extradition warrant, applied to the state
Supreme Court for a writ of habeas corpus, as above stated,
contending that his conviction and sentence were void and in
excess of the jurisdiction of the state court, as being in contravention of his extradition rights under the treaty between
the United States and Great Britain, and § 5275 of the United
States Revised Statutes, set forth in the margin.1
The writ was issued and a return made, denying many of
the allegations of the petition, and, after hearing, it was finally
dismissed, and the plaintiff in error remanded to the custody
of the sheriff. 154 Fed. Rep. 980.
Mr. George D. Collins, plaintiff in error and appellant, pro
se, submitted:
The accused has the legal right, by virtue of the treaty, to a
trial to a final conclusion of the extradition case. This right
is supreme, paramount and exclusive. It imposes an obligation which the State must first obey and perform, and to which
all its laws and process and judicial power are necessarily in1 Section

5275, Rev. Stat.; 3 U. S. Compiled Statutes, page 3596.

"Whenever any person is delivered by any foreign government to an
agent of the United States, for the purpose of being brought within
the United States and tried for any crime of which he is duly accused,
the President shall have power to take all necessary measures for the
transportation and safekeeping of such accused person, and for his
security against lawless violence, until the final conclusion of his trial
for the crimes or offenses specified in the warrant of extradition, and
until his final discharge from custody or imprisonment for or on account
of such crimes or offenses, and for a reasonable time thereafter, and
may employ such portion of the land or naval forces of the United
States, or of the militia thereof, as may be necessary for the safekeeping and protection of the accused."

COLLINS v. O'NEIL.
214 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error and Appellant.

ferior and subordinate. It is incompatible with this right
and obligation, and in violation of the treaty, to arrest the
accused, put him to trial and prosecute him on a charge of
committing another offense subsequently to the extradition
surrender, and do this while the extradition case is pending
and awaiting trial to a final conclusion. Nothing in article 3
of the convention of 1889, authorizes any such nullification of
the supremacy of the extradition process and of the supremacy
of the extradition jurisdiction in its exclusive authority and
control over the person of the accused.
The extradition jurisdiction over the person of the accused,
is special and limited, and extends no farther than the charge
on which he has been extradited. It is a jurisdiction derived
entirely from the treaty; and consequently is supreme and exclusive until it has wrought its function by securing to the
accused a trial to a final conclusion of the specific charge on
which his extradition was granted, and he has been afforded
reasonable time and opportunity after his final release on that
charge, to return to the country of asylum.
To conserve and enforce the fundamental and paramount
right to a trial to a final conclusion of the extradition case,
the law of the treaty prohibits the arrest or trial of the accused
upon any other charge, until he is first given a reasonable
time and opportunity after his final release from custody or
imprisonment in the case where his extradition was granted,
to return to the country of asylum. This principle also maintains in exclusive and supreme control of the person of the
accused, the extradition jurisdiction, until the extradition case
is ended. The well-settled law on this point deems the accused
to be present and actually resident within the territory of the
nation granting the asylum; thus necessitating a new extradition to authorize the subsequent trial and prosecution on the
subsequent extraditable offense. There is absolutely nothing
in article 3 of the convention of 1889, that can by any possibility be construed to the contrary. It simply fails to prohibit,
and it would be very ridiculous if it did prohibit, the prosecu-

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error and Appellant.

214 U. S.

tion for the subsequent offense. It certainly does not authorize
a prosecution for a subsequent extraditable offense, without the
necessity of a new extradition. It does not and could not deal
with the subject of subsequent offenses; it is entirely foreign
in its scope and purpose to all such matters. Above all else
it does not permit a trial and prosecution for the subsequent
offense, while the extradition case is pending, and while the
extradition jurisdiction extends its supreme and exclusive
authority over the person of the accused; the treaty would
clearly be self-stultifying and self-contradictory if it did.
By § 5275, Rev. Stat., the extradited prisoner is invested
with the legal right to a trial to a final conclusion of the
charge specified in the warrant of extradition. The statute
no more than the treaty, nor than the well-settled principle of
international law, makes any distinction whatever, between
such prosecutions for subsequent offenses and such prosecutions for prior offenses; nor is it possible for any such distinction to find support in reason or authority. It can make no
difference at all and is entirely irrelevant to the point, that
there exists an absolute immunity as to prosecutions for prior
offenses, and none as to prosecutions for subsequent offenses.
By the treaty, the statute, and the principle of international
law, the extradited person is entitled as a matter of right to
have his trial to a final conclusion, in the extradition case,
within a reasonable time. What is a reasonable time will
usually be determined by analogy to the lexfori. In California
the period is sixty days and is held by the Supreme Court of
the State to apply as much to a case where there has been a
mistrial as it does to a case where no trial has taken place at
all. Ex parts Begerow, 133 California, 349.
Holding the accused in custody for years on the extradition
charge, against his constant protest, without a trial to a final
conclusion of the charge on which he was extradited, is extremely and oppressively unreasonable; and, in law, operates
to terminate the jurisdiction over his person, and he is entitled
to his discharge on habeas corpus. Ex parte Begerow, 133

COLLINS v. O'NEIL.
214 U. S.

Argument for Defendants in Error and Appellees.

California, 349; Hughes, Crim. Law. and Proc., § 2567; Hawley
on Int. Extr., p. 12.
The extradition warrant gives the sheriff of San Francisco
no authority to imprison the appellant and plaintiff in error;
nor has the sheriff been vested with any such power by the
United States. So that, even if the warrant were now in full
force and effect, the sheriff is not authorized by it to hold the
custody of the accused.
See, in support of the foregoing propositions: Ex parte
Rauscher, 119 U. S. 407; Johnson v. Browne, 205 U. S. 309;
Pomeroy on International Law, § 199; 2 Wharton's Digest of
International Law, § 270; United States v. Watts, 8 Sawyer,
370; Adriance v. Lagrave, 59 N. Y. 114.
Mr. William Hoff Cook, for defendants in error and appellees.
After a fugitive criminal is surrendered by the agent designated in the extradition warrant to the sheriff, who is the
person designated by law as the proper party to receive him,
where a state law has been violated instanter the provisions
of such warrant have been complied with, and the warrant
itself becomesfunctus officio. United States v. Watts, 8 Sawyer,
383; State v. Vanderpool, 39 Ohio St. 273; Ex parte Collins,
151 California, 340, and cases there cited.
The manifest scope and object of the treaty was to deal with
the present and past offenses, and the future was only considered in relation to the return of such fugitive to the surrendering country, after an acquittal, and in connection with his
status as a criminal at the time of extradition. It was never
for a moment considered, by the treaty making powers, that
a fugitive criminal was to be clothed with all the immunity
from arrest or punishment with which a minister, ambassador
or consul is vested while domiciled as a representative of his
government.
It was never contemplated by the treaty makers, nor will
any court declare that there shall be ingrafted on to the treaty,
by implication, an absolute carte blanche to an extradited

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

214 U. S.

fugitive criminal to commit, with impunity, any number of
extraditable or non-extraditable crimes, while awaiting trial
for the extradition crime.
If Collins had no right to demand an asylum in Canada for
offenses which he had already committed, a fortiori, he had
no prospective right to demand such asylum or security in
relation to any other crime which he subsequently might, or
intended, to commit in California. As to the subsequent offense which he did commit, he never became a fugitive to
Canada. He committed the offense in the California jurisdiction and never departed therefrom. Nor does the treaty
direct that such jurisdiction by California over his person
should be temporarily surrendered, and he be allowed to depart, and seek a new asylum and domicil, either in Canada,
Honduras, or any other foreign country. United States V.
Rauscher, 119 U. S. at page 411; Ker v. Illinois, 119 U. S. 436.
MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM,

after making the foregoing state-

ment, delivered the opinion of the court.
The objections which the plaintiff in error urges to his further imprisonment are founded upon what he insists is implied
from the provisions of the treaties between the United States
and Great Britain (1842-1889), and he contends that under
those treaties the State of California had no right or jurisdiction to try him for any offense whatever other than the one
for which he was extradited and delivered to the Government
of the United States for trial, even though he committed an
offense subsequently to the extradition, and he further asserts
that after a trial has been had for the offense for which he was
extradited, he is entitled to be afforded reasonable time and
opportunity after his final release on that charge to return to
the country of asylum, and that the trial of the crime for which
he was extradited must be had within a reasonable time after
his extradition, or he is for that reason entitled to his discharge. In other words, the plaintiff in error claims immunity,
under the treaties, from arrest or detention for any crime com-

COLLINS v. O'NEIL.
214 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

mitted by him after he has been brought back upon the extradition warrant until he has been allowed a reasonable time to
return to the place from which he was taken. He contends
that the duty originally resting upon the demanding country
to try him only for the offense for which he was extradited
and to then afford him reasonable opportunity to return, is
unaffected by the fact that he committed another crime after
his extradition.
The treaty of 1842, August 9 (8 Stat. 576, § 10), is the one
in regard to which discussions as to its meaning have arisen.
United States v. Rauscher, 119 U. S. 407. Subsequently to the
treaty, Great Britain passed the extradition act of 1870 (32
and 33 Victoria, chapter 52); and also in 1873 an act to amend
the extradition act of 1870 (36 and 37 Victoria, chapter 60).
Both these acts are cited as the extradition acts of 1870 and
1873. See 1 Moore on Extradition (1891), pages 741, 755. In
subdivision 2 of § 3 of the act of 1870 it is provided: "(2) A
fugitive criminal shall not be surrendered to a foreign State
unless provision is made by the law of that State, or by arrangement that the fugitive criminal shall not, until he has
been restored or had an opportunity of returning to Her Maj-

esty's dominions, be detained or tried in that foreign State for
any offense committed prior to his surrender, other than the
extradition crime proved by the facts on which the surrender
is grounded."
Article 3 of the treaty or convention of 1889, July 12, between
Great Britain and the United States is to be found in 26 Stat.
1508-9, and is also, among others, set out in Johnson v. Browne,
205 U. S. 309, 319, as follows: "Article III. No person surrendered by or to either of the high contracting parties shall be triable or be tried for any crime or offense, committed prior to his
extradition, other than the offense for which he was surrendered,
until he shall have had an opportunity of returning to the
country from which he was surrendered." The treatment of
the criminal for all acts committed or said to have been committed by him prior to extradition is thus fully provided for.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

214 U. S.

The contention of the plaintiff in error that the duty to
afford opportunity to return after a trial or other termination
of the case upon which he was extradited is unaffected by any
subsequent crime he may have committed, is not even plausible. Nothing in the Rauscher case (supra) is authority for
any such contention. The duty to afford opportunity to return after trial, as stated, is limited to matters which happened before extradition, and in the nature of things such
duty cannot be extended by implication so as to cover a
totally different state of facts. Because, in some cases, in construing the treaty, it has been stated that a person extradited
can be tried only for the offense for which he was surrendered
for trial until he has had an opportunity of returning, it is
assumed by the plaintiff in error that such language prohibits
the trial of a person so extradited for any crime committed by
him subsequently as well as prior to the surrender, without an
opportunity for his return to the other country. The whole
question is simply one as to the meaning of the treaty, and we
cannot doubt for a single moment what that meaning is.
Much is said by the plaintiff in error as to his right to an
asylum as if it inhered in himself. The right is, however,
simply provided for by treaty, and must be found therein, so
far alone as the criminal is concerned.
The question then is, does either the treaty or convention,
by express provision or by inference, provide for a return of
the criminal to the surrendering country after his surrender
and after a subsequent commission of a crime in the country
to which he was surrendered? To ask the question is to answer it. The plaintiff in error contends for the treaty right to
leave the country, notwithstanding his commission of the subsequent crime. This we cannot assent to. It is impossible to
conceive of representatives of two civilized countries solemnly
entering into a treaty of extradition, and therein providing
that a criminal surrendered according to demand, for a crime
that he has committed, if subsequently to his surrender he is
guilty of murder or treason or other crime is, nevertheless, to

COLLINS v. O'NEIL.
214 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

have the right guaranteed to him to return unmolested to the
country which surrendered him. We can imagine no country,
by treaty, as desirous of exacting such a condition of surrender or any country as willing to accept it. When a treaty or
statute contains a provision that the party surrendered shall
be tried for no other offense until he has had an opportunity
to leave the country, the meaning of such a provision is perfectly plain, and must receive a reasonable and sensible construction. The party proceeded against must not be tried for
any other offense existing at the time when he was extradited
(whether at the time of such extradition it had or had not been
discovered), until he shall have had a reasonable time to return to the country from which he was taken, after his trial
or other termination of the proceeding. That such privilege
should be accorded to one who commits a crime after his surrender to a demanding government lacks all semblance of
reason or sense.
Spear in the second edition of his work on the Law of Extradition says, at page 84, that the party extradited is not
"protected against trial for any offenses which he may commit against the receiving government subsequently to his
extradition, and while in its custody, or after his discharge
therefrom

.

.

."

Such a criminal has no asylum, because

he never had an asylum within the jurisdiction of the government delivering him, with regard to the crime which he committed since such delivery.
The contention is also without merit that he has, at any rate,
the right to a trial to a conclusion of the case for which he was
extradited, before he can be tried for a crime subsequently
committed. The matter lies within the jurisdiction of the
State whose laws he has violated since his extradition, and we
cannot see that it is a matter of any interest to the surrendering government.
There is nothing in section 5275, Rev. Stat., supra, which
gives the least countenance to the claims of the plaintiff in
error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Syllabus.

214 U. S.

The other objections made by him in regard to the person
who now has him in custody under the various warrants and
processes, copies of which are returned in the record, we regard as unimportant.
As soon as the judgments herein are affirmed the plaintiff
in error will, of course, pursuant to the judgment entered upon
the verdict of conviction against him, be taken to the state
prison in California, provided for in the sentence, and there
confined according to law. The orders and judgments in the
two cases are
Affirmed.

UNITED STATES ex rel. PARISH v. MAcVEAGH,
SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

No. 111.

Argued March 11, 12, 1909.-Decided May 17, 1909.

If the reference by Congress to the Secretary of the Treasury to ascertain the amount due to a claimant and pay the same requires the
exercise of discretion the courts cannot control his decision, Riverside Oil Company v. Hitchcock, 190 U. S. 316; but where the statute
simply requires him to ascertain the amount, according to certain
prescribed rules, the duty is administrative; and, the amount being
ascertained according to those rules, the courts can by mandamus
compel the Secretary to issue his warrant therefor.
The statute involved in this case, referring the ascertainment of the
amount due a claimant to the Secretary of the Treasury, construed
on the supposition that Congress regarded the controversy as over
and that only the amount remained for ascertainment, as any in-

tricate judicial problem would naturally be referred to the judicial
tribunals.

The history of the litigation and legislation in regard to the claim of
Parish against the United States for damages on contract for ice
made in 1863 for use of armies in the field reviewed and held that

