CEBALLOS & CO. v. UNITED STATES.
214 U. S.

Syllabus.

to § 3411 the restrictive significance we have adopted is to
render § 3416 superfluous. It is indeed true that the effect of
the construction in an extremely narrow and technical sense
might be considered as operating a redundafcy. But the asserted redundancy is more seeming than real, as § 3416 was
plainly not enacted in order to reiterate what was expressly or
impliedly embodied in § 3411, but was to declare the obligation
of a national bank in a stated contingency to make return and
payment on the outstanding circulation of a state bank which
was subject to taxation.
The elaborate argument made at bar, to the effect that Congress at the time of the revision must have contemplated the
non-existence of state banks and the extinguishment of their
circulation, and, therefore, must be considered as having intended to make § 3411 applicable to the outstanding circulation of national banks, is, we think, so clearly in conflict with
the plain manifestation of the purpose of Congress, as shown
by the reenactment in the revision of the provisions as to
state banks and their circulation, as to require no further
notice.

Affirmed.

J. M. CEBALLOS & COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 108.

Argued March 10, 1909.-Decided May 17, 1909.

Where a contract requires construction as to the mode of its performance, a similar contract in writing between the same parties which
had been fully performed prior to the execution of the contract to

be construed, serves, within proper limitations, to throw light upon
the construction of the later contract and may be referred to for
that purpose.
A contract having been made by the United States with Ceballos & Co.
for the repatriation of the Spanish prisoners in Cuba after the
Spanish war, similar in terms to another contract subsequently made
with the same parties for the repatriation of the Spanish prisoners

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

214 U. S.

in Manila, providing certain accommodations for officers and steerage
accommodations for men and other persons designated by the Secretary of War, the fact that in the performance of the Cuban contract
the wives and children of the officers were given similar cabin accommodations to those of their respective husbands and fathers,
and the United States had paid therefor the higher rate, held to be
material in construing the Philippine contract and also held that
Ceballos & Co. were entitled to payment for the transportation of
the wives and children of officers at cabin rates.
The same contract construed as entitling Ceballos & Co. to half rates
of cabin transportation for children under ten, and steerage rates
for the "other persons designated by the Secretary of War," that expression not embracing wives and children of officers, but embracing all designated persons other than officers and their wives and
children. A contract carrying out treaty obligations should be
liberally construed so as to effectuate the purposes intended by the
treaty.
In the light of all the surrounding circumstances it will not be asumed that the United States in carrying out its stipulations for
the capitulation of Manila would commit an act of inhumanity
such as separating the surrendered officers from their wives and
children by furnishing the former with cabin, and the latter with
steerage, accommodations on the voyage to Spain under the repatriation provision of the treaty of peace.
42 C. Cl. 318, reversed.
facts, which involve the construction of the contract
between Ceballos & Co. and the United States for the repatriation of the prisoners of war and other persons from the Philippine Islands to Spain, are stated in the opinion.
THE'

Mr. William V. Rowe and Mr. John J. Hemphill for appellants.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General John Q. Thompson, with
whom Mr. Franklin W. Collins was on the brief, for the
United States.
MR. JUSTICE WRITE delivered the opinion of the court.

Speaking in a general sense, this case involves determining
how much, if anything, is due by the United States to J. M.

CEBALLOS & CO. v. UNITED STATES.
214 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Ceballos & Co., the appellants, for services rendered in pursuance of oral and written contracts for the repatriation of
certain persons from the Philippine Islands to Spain. Before
coming to the case as made by the record it is necessary to
dispose of a preliminary consideration which may throw light
upon one of the questions arising for decision.
Ceballos & Co.-who here assert their rights as arising from
contracts made, as we have said, concerning transportation
of persons from the Philippine Islands to Spain-after the
surrender of the Spanish forces at Santiago, made a contract
with the United States for the repatriation from Cuba to Spain
of the prisoners of war resulting from that surrender. That
contract was performed, and it is conceded that all obligations
of the United States under the same were discharged. It is
admitted, however, that at the trial below the Cuban contract,
as it is termed, was offered and the mode of execution thereof
was established by competent evidence, upon the assumption
that such facts were proper to be taken into view in the elucidation of the particular contracts which are here involved.
No finding was made by the lower court on the subject, although one was requested. After the filing of the record in
this court a motion was made praying that the lower court be
directed to find whether or not the Cuban contract had been
made as stated, and whether or not the wives and children of
Spanish officers transported thereunder were also transported
under the contract, and, if they were, the rate paid for such
transportation. The motion was resisted, and action thereon
was postponed until the hearing on the merits. In the discussion at bar it was conceded by the Government that the Cuban
contract had been offered in evidence below, that the contract
was correctly printed in one of the briefs, and that it had been
performed in a particular manner. It was, however, insisted
that the Philippine contracts here involved were unambiguous, and therefore the Cuban contract was irrelevant. It was
conceded, if it was deemed that there was such ambiguity in
the Philippine contracts as to require construction, and that
VOL. ccxiv-4

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

214 U. S.

the construction might be elucidated by the Cuban contract
and the mode of its performance, that contract and the admission as to the manner in which it had been performed might be
treated as part of the record for the purposes of the case before
us without the necessity of directing findings on the subject.
As we are clearly of opinion that the contracts which are here
involved require construction, and that the previous contract
between the parties as to the movement of the prisoners of
war from Cuba to Spain, and the construction which obtained
in the execution thereof, may serve within proper limitations
to throw light upon the construction of the contracts here involved we treat the Cuban contract and its mode of performance as embraced in the record, and review the case in the
light thereof.
In the month of July, 1898, and from that time until the
commencement of this litigation, the members of the appellant firm were the American operators and agents of the Compaftia Transatlhntica, a steamship line engaged in the transportation of freight and passengers between the ports of Spain
and the Philippine Islands. As such agents Ceballos & Co.
executed a contract with the United States, a copy of which
is in the margin I to safely transport from Cuba to Spain the
'Cuban Contract.
Sealed proposals having been invited for the transportation of the
Spanish prisoners of war who surrendered to the United States forces
in Cuba, from Santiago de Cuba to Cadiz, or such port of same as might
thereafter be designated, and the proposal submitted by J. M. Ceballos
& Company of New York, having been duly accepted:
It is hereby, on this twenty-first day of July, 1898, agreed, by and between the Secretary of War of the United States and said J. M. Ceballos
& Company, that said company shall transport well and safely all of
the troops of Spain that were surrendered by General Toral to the Army
of the United States in Cuba, in the capitulation entered into by him
at Santiago de Cuba, from said Santiago de Cuba to such port in Spain
as the Secretary of War of the United States may designate, and that
the Government of the United States will pay for such transportation,
and for the subsistence and delivery on shore of the prisoners, the sum

CEBALLOS & CO. v. UNITED STATES.
214 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

troops of Spain surrendered at Santiago de Cuba. Under this'
contract the wives and children of Spanish officers were carried in the cabins, and without question, the first-class rate
was paid for the transportation.
The city of Manila surrendered the thirteenth of August,
of twenty dollars ($20) for each enlisted man or private soldier, and the
sum of fifty-five dollars ($55) for each officer so delivered.
The said company further stipulates that said subsistence furnished
by the company shall be equal to United States Army garrison rations;
that cabin accommodations are to be supplied for the said officers,
and third-class or steerage accommodations, having suitable galley
accommodations with ample space and ventilation for the enlisted
men or privates; that for the purpose aforesaid it will have at Santiago
de Cuba within seventeen (17) calendar days from this day (that is to
say, on or before the seventh day of the month now next following)
seven (7) steam vessels with a total capacity for the conveyance of at
least ten thousand (10,000) prisoners in conformity with the foregoing
stipulations, and ready to take them on board and proceed immediately
to Spain; and the remaining vessels, in number and capacity as the
Secretary of War may notify the company, within twenty-one (21)
days from the date of such notice.
The Secretary of War stipulates that the United States will give
safe conduct as against the Army and Navy of the United States to the
vessels of the company engaged in the business aforesaid while proceeding to Santiago and from there to Spain, such safe conduct not to
apply to ships already seized or in blockaded ports, and the ships
employed as aforesaid to have only such armament as is customarily
carried by merchant ships. Such safe conduct is to extend to foreign,
West Indian, Cuban and Spanish ports, and to remain in effect until
the prisoners are unloaded in a Spanish port designated, and is expressly made applicable to steamers of the Spanish Transatlantic Line,
under the Spanish flag.
For the bebter security of such safe conduct a document in the following form and duly signed will be furnished to the company for each
ship, which shall be exhibited on demand, together with a copy of this
contract, to any officer of the Army or Navy of the United States
visiting the vessel:
"The President of the United States to all whom it may concern,
greeting: This is to certify that the
is employed under
contract with the Government of the United States in the business of

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

214 U. S.

1898, and August 14 the United States and Spanish authorities agreed upon written terms of capitulation, of which article 5 is as follows:
"All questions relating to the repatriation of officers and
men of the Spanish forces and of their families and of the expenses which said repatriation may occasion, shall be referred
to the Government of the United States at Washington."
The following statement as to the situation at Manila and
the making of an oral contract and subsequently of a written
contract are taken from findings made below.
There was surrendered to the United States forces at Manila
on August 13, 1898, a large number of civil, naval, and military officers and their families, and a much larger number of
enlisted men, together with the wives and children of some of
these enlisted men. Many of these were in a pitiable condition
physically, exhausted with exposure and disease-1,200 being
sick at one time-all of them fed, guarded and attended at
transporting from Santiago dc Cuba to a port in Spain Spanish prisoners
heretofore surrendered to the Army of the United States in Cuba; that
the Government of the United States has guaranteed safe conduct for
in going to and from Santiago de
this purpose to the
Cuba and until the disembarking of said prisoners in a Spanish port.
"All persons under the jurisdiction of the United States are required
to respect such guarantee.

The company further stipulates that it will furnish the bond of
-- for the proper and faithful performance of this contract.
The Secretary of War agrees that the United States will deliver the
prisoners aforesaid on board at Santiago within a reasonable time after
the vessels are ready, and to the number of at least ten thousand
men (10,000) men, five hundred (500) officers, and that the payment
of the said twenty ($20.00) dollars and fifty-five ($55.00) dollars for
each man and officer to the numbers last aforesaid shall be made when
satisfactory evidence that the prisoners have been transported and delivered in accordance with this contract is presented to him.
Witness our hands and seals this twenty-first day of July, 1898.
R. A. ALGER, Secy. of War.
J. M.

CEBALLOS & Co.

CEBALLOS & CO. v. UNITED STATES.
214 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the expense of the United States. Smallpox had been prevalent and infection was apprehended. The civil prisoners included Spanish civil officers on duty in the Philippine Islands
under the government of Spain. Many of these had wives
and children with them. There were besides a number of
civilians, such as nurses, nuns, monks, friars, sisters of charity
and lady pensioners. The United States treated all of these
classes as prisoners of war, and had supreme control of them
after the surrender of Manila until they were delivered aboard
plaintiff's ships for transportation, at which time the supervision of the United States ceased. Spanish officers had in
the meantime only such supervision over their troops as the
United States permitted.
General Otis, commanding the United States forces in
Manila, considered that an emergency existed requiring immediate action, and on October 7 and October 24, 1898, cabled
the War Department at Washington the request of the Spanish general at Manila for permission to allow sick Spanish
officers and soldiers to depart for Spain. Permission being
granted, these officers and soldiers were shipped on vessels of
the Compafhia Transatlhntica by the Spanish authorities in
Manila, acting under the supervision and control of the United
States authorities, but under an oral agreement with Ceballos
& Co., as hereinafter stated.
In the emergency deemed existing by the commanding general, and communicated to the War Department, the Secretary of War, in October or November, 1898, entered into an
oral agreement with Ceballos & Co., by which the latter agreed
to transport such of the Philippine prisonars as the United
States desired to return to Spain, the price to be paid for such
transportation to be the price fixed after the United States
should advertise for bids for such transportation, under contract expected thereafter to be entered into under the terms
of a treaty of peace between the United States and Spain.
Under this oral agreement, Ceballos & Co. immediately
began furnishing vessels, and the transportation of the Phil-

OCTOBER TERM, 1908
Opinion of the Court.

214 U. S.

ippine prisoners commenced by a vessel which sailed from
Manila, November 7, 1898, and continued until another and
a written contract was entered into for the transportation of
those prisoners not transported under the oral agreement.
The shipments under the oral contract were five in number,
and the wives and children of officers were carried in the cabin,
as under the Cuban contract.
On December 10, 1898, by the treaty of peace it was stipulated in paragraph 1, article 5, that"The United States, will, upon the signature of the present
treaty, send back to Spain, at its own cost, the Spanish soldiers taken as prisoners of war on the capture of Manila by the
American forces."
And in article 6, that"Spain will, upon the signature of the present treaty, release all prisoners of war, and all persons detained or imprisoned for political offenses, in connection with the insurrection
in Cuba and the Philippines and the war with the United
States.
"Reciprocally, the United States will release all persons
made prisoners of war by the American forces, and will undertake to obtain the release of all Spanish prisoners in the hands
of the insurgents in Cuba and the Philippines.
"The Government of the United States will, at its own cost,
return to Spain, and the Government of Spain will, at its own
cost, return to the United States, Cuba, Porto Rico, and the
Philippines, according to the situation of their respective
homes, prisoners released or caused to be released by them,
respectively under this article."
On January 20, 1899, the Quartermaster General, U. S.
Army, by direction of the Secretary of War, invited sealed
proposals "for the transportation of the Spanish prisoners of
war now in the Philippine Islands . . . to Cadiz or such
other ports of Spain as may hereafter be designated." Among
other things it was stated in the advertisement as follows:
"Their number is estimated as about 16,000 officers and

CEBALLOS & CO. v. UNITED STATES.
214 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

enlisted men. Cabin accommodations are. to be supplied for
the officers and third-class or steerage accommodations, having suitable galley accommodations, conforming to the United
States requirements as to space and ventilation, for the enlisted men.
"Proposals will state the price per capita for transporting
officers and for transporting enlisted men and for their subsistence and delivering them on shore at the Spanish port, or
ports to be designated, and will be accompanied by a guarantee that the prisoners will be comfortably cared for and
subsisted while on the journey.
"Payment for the service will be made when evidence is
furnished that the ship has arrived with her passengers at
point of destination. The number of officers and men counted
aboard at place of embarkation by the quartermaster is to
determine the number to be paid for.
.
The following bid was submitted:
"Sir: In accordance with the advertisement of Gen. M. I.
Luddington, quartermaster general, U. S. Army, copy of
which is hereto attached, I propose, on behalf of Messrs. J. M.
Ceballos & Co., agents of the Compaffia Transatlfntica, de
Barcelona, to furnish transportation for the Spanish prisoners
now in the Philippine Islands to any port or ports in Spain.
Their number estimated at 16,000 officers and enlisted men. I
propose to use in this service the steamers named in the annexed list, which fully sets forth the classification of each,
the tonnage capacity of each, their speed, the berth accommodations upon each, and the approximate length of time
required by each vessel to make the voyage to Spain. (The
length of time is estimated from Manila.) Said list gives the
time at which each vessel will arrive in or off the harbor of
Manila for orders, the act of God and all dangers of the sea
excepted.
"It is proposed not to load the steamers beyond two-thirds

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

214 U. S.

of their steerage capacity. This is considered not only advisable as an act of humanity, but absolutely necessary, owing
to climatic conditions and length of voyage.
"I further propose to call at any port of the Philippine
Islands that the U. S. Government may designate, provided
the vessels can safely lay afloat.
"The charge for this service is dependent on the ports of
call in the Philippines, and also on the quarantine regulations in Spain, but I propose and hereby agree to do this
service at a price not to exceed in any case:
For each officer ............................. $215 00
For each enlisted man ........................ 73 75
"It is proposed to furnish subsistence equal to the United
States garrison rations, or, if preferred, the usual rations furnished under Spanish regulations.
"I will furnish a satisfactory bond for the faithful fulfillment
of this service."
This bid was accepted, and on March 4, 1899, a contract
was executed between the Secretary of War and Ceballos & Co.,
by their attorney in fact, which, omitting the attestation
clause and signatures, is as follows:
"Whereas, under the terms of the treaty of peace entered
into by and between the representatives of the Governments
of the United States and of Spain, signed at Paris on December 10, 1898, it is mutually agreed and stipulated in the first
paragraph of Article V that" 'The United States will, upon the signature of the present
treaty, send back to Spain, at its own cost, the Spanish soldiers
taken as prisoners of war on the capture of Manila by the
American forces.'
"'And in Article VI, which reads as follows:
"'Spain will, upon the signature of the present treaty, release all prisoners of war, and all persons detained or imprisoned for political offenses, in connection with the insurrection in Cuba and the Philippines and the war with the United
States.

CEBALLOS & CO. v. UNITED STATES.
214 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

"'Reciprocally, the United States will release all persons
made prisoners of war by the American forces, and will undertake to obtain release of all Spanish prisoners in the hands of
the insurgents in Cuba and the Philippines.
" 'The Government of the United States will, at its own cost,
return to Spain, and the Government of Spain will, at its own
cost, return to the United States, Cuba, Porto Rico and the
Philippines, according to the situation of their respective
homes, prisoners released or caused to be released by them,
respectively, under this article.'
"And whereas sealed proposals having been invited for the
transportation of the Spanish prisoners from Manila or such
other port in the Philippine Islands as may be designated to
Cadiz or such other port in Spain as may be designated, and in
response thereto the proposal of J. M. Ceballos & Company,
of New York, having been duly accepted by the Secretary
of War of the United States:
"Therefore this article of agreement is made and entered
into this 4th day of March, 1899, by and between the said
J. M. Ceballos & Company for the transportation of the said
prisoners of war, from the Philippine Islands to Spain, as are
designated in the terms of the treaty of peace, referred to and
quoted herein.
"The said J. M. Ceballos & Company hereby agree to furnish good and safe transportation for such number of prisoners
of war and persons as may be designated by the Secretary of
War, from the Philippine Islands to such port in Spain as may
be designated by the Secretary of War, and to furnish to them
subsistence while en route and on board the ships, and to deliver them on shore in Spain.
"The said company further agrees that for the purpose
herein stipulated they will provide a sufficient number of
steamships for the safe and comfortable transportation of the
prisoners of war and such other persons as may be designated
by the Secretary of War, with cabin accommodations for all
officers, and third-class or steerage accommodations, space

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

214 U. S.

and ventilation for the enlisted men and other persons on
board each ship; that the subsistence furnished by the company shall be equal in every respect to the United States
army garrison rations.
"The company further agrees to provide a sufficient number
of steamships in the harbor of Manila to perform the entire
service as herein stipulated, so that the embarkation of the
last of the prisoners of war and the other persons may be made
not later than May 1st, 1899; that the ships to be used for the
purpose are named and described in the list submitted with
their proposals, copy of which is hereto attached as a part of
this agreement, and the company agrees that no troops shall
be transported upon any one of said ships in excess of twothirds of the steerage capacity of each ship as shown in the
list referred to.
"In consideration of the faithful performances of the foregoing stipulations and in compensation therefor, the Secretary
of War hereby agrees on behalf of the United States to pay to
the said J. M. Ceballos & Company, for the transportation,
subsistence, and delivery on shore of each commissioned officer, the sum of two hundred and fifteen dollars ($215.00),
and for each enlisted man, private soldier, or other person
designated by the Secretary of War for transportation the
sum of seventy-three dollars and seventy-five cents ($73.75),
the said sums to be due and payable upon evidence that said
officers, enlisted men, or persons have been transported, subsisted, and delivered on shore in Spain.
"It is further agreed that the prisoners of war and all other
persons to be transported shall be delivered by the United
States on board the ships at such ports in the Philippine
Islands as may be designated by the Secretary of War, within
five (5) working days after the vessel or vessels are ready to
receive them. Demurrage, if any, earned by any such steamer
or steamers to be paid by the United States at the rate fifteen
cents (15e.) per gross ton register per day, and for any prisoners on board at the rate of $1.50 for each officer per day and

CEBALLOS & CO. v. UNITED STATES.
214 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

forty cents for each enlisted man per day. An account of the
number of officers, enlisted men, or other persons to be taken
at the time of embarkation by a representative of the Government of the United States and a representative of the said
J. M. Ceballos & Company, and payment to the said company
shall be made upon the basis of the number of officers, enlisted
men, and persons counted on each ship.
"It is further agreed that all steamers shall call at the port
of Manila for orders, and should the Secretary of War elect to
deliver prisoners to any steamer or steamers at any other port
in the Philippine Islands, orders to that effect must be given
within twenty-four hours after the steamer or steamers have
reported to the commanding officer at the port of Manila.
"No member or delegate to Congress, nor any person belonging to, or employed in, the military service of the United
States, is or shall be admitted to any share or part of this
contract, or to any benefit which may arise therefrom."
The findings show that the vessels which were supplied to
perform this contract, like those which were supplied to perform the Cuban contract and the subsequent Philippine oral
contract, were furnished with cabin and steerage accommodations, and that the officers, civil and military, with their respective families, were carried in the cabin, and in the steerage
were carried the enlisted men and their families and other
persons entitled to third-class passage.
For the first twenty-five shipments payment was made by
the United States upon certificates of the masters of the respective ships on which said prisoners of war and other persons were transported, certified to be correct at the place of
landing, showing the different classes of passengers.
The court below also found as follows:
The obligation of this country to repatriate any other persons or classes of persons than those who were actually prisoners of war or political prisoners was questioned by the
Secretary of War.
On December 18, 1899, the Secretary of War addressed an

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

214 U. S.

official letter to the Attorney General, stating that under the
terms of the treaty of peace the obligation of the United States
to send to Spain at its own cost the wives and children of officers and soldiers and civil prisoners designated as officials and
their wives and children was not clearly defined, and that the
rates of compensation for the transportation of such persons
were not set forth in the contract. But in that connection the
Secretary requested an opinion as to the construction of the
treaty of peace in regard to the scope of the description of
Spanish prisoners, whether and to what extent the treaty included the repatriation of non-combatants at the cost of the
United States. The Secretary further requested a construction of the contract rate of compensation which might be allowed and paid per captia for each class of persons charged
for under the terms of the contract with Ceballos & Co. On
January 6, 1900, the Attorney General answered this official
communication of the Secretary of War and construed the
contract substantially as follows: That it was questionable
whether all the persons tendered and transported were not
within the purview of the treaty, but that this was a question
for the United States authorities and not for the carrier, who
would have been guilty or might have been guilty of a breach
of his contract in refusing to carry persons designated to be
carried by the United States. The Attorney General further
informed the Secretary of War that the contract related to the
transportation of prisoners; that as between the contracting
parties it rested alone with the United States to say whom it
would send back to Spain, and in doing so to alone determine
who were prisoners and who came within the purview of the
treaty or the contract. That the words "other persons" were
included within "enlisted men," and that as to all enlisted
men and all persons other than officers, military and civil,
$73.75, and no more, was payable by the United States under
the contract.
On January 19, 1900, the Secretary of War notified one of
the firm of Ceballos & Co. that he had, on January 17, cabled

CEBALLOS & CO. v. UNITED STATES.
214 U. S.

61

Opinion of the Court.

General Otis at Manila that civil officials, prisoners' wives
and children were entitled to passage to Spain, and that the
contract provided for shipment of civil officials as officers on
the basis of $215 per capita; that wives and children of officers,
soldiers and civil officials were entitled to transportation to
Spain on the basis of $73.75 per capita.
As shown on statement, copied in the margin,' the United

States paid to Ceballos & Co., under the Philippine oral and
written contracts, the sum of $1,544,595. It will be seen that
no payments were made in respect of the transportation of
other persons than officers and enlisted men until after the
Attorney General had rendered the opinion above referred to.
Of the various classes of persons specified, all but "officers"
1 Payments.

Sundry Checks Received by J. M. Ceballos & Co.-Payments on 4c by
United States Government.

e

'

.5
June 20-99...
Nov. 28-99..

1019
131

1198

16
.19

Nov.

3,

M'ch 7-1903.......
Sup. Bill No .
22 ..........

Totals..,

..................
1302
53

406 ......
............
393

..................
...... .....
......

a
......

1,401.25

442.50

............ ......
..................

L::: ....
lO ....
....
...
.

51 .......................

ree'd

and 26-1903,
r 'd...
Feb.
deposited...

($74,028.62,
10%
retained by Government.)
190,545.12 (inclu.
previous
10% as above.)
447,853.75
140,822.50
28,983.75
9,746.25 (315 Civ.)
34,747.50 (Off. @
$141.25,
diff. bet. 1st and
3d class.)
1,180.00

............ ...

Nov6.
1

*0
.

7067.....................$666,247.62

Oct.31-102..

Nov. 3-1902.

Warrants.

.5

o,
0

July 30-1900..
288
3728
Oct. 6-1900.
148
1425
Apr. 11-1902 ...........................
Apr. 21-1902 .................................
July 3-1902 .................................

Ot 1

0)0

8
1
• 5
9

17
6 ......
......
1
2 ......
......
......
......
91 ......
......
...
. .......
.....
.....
....
18
..........
8 ......
2
..........
.
.....
3
1 ...... ......
.. . ... ...
less
1 .............
not
all'd
1613

13583

1392

406

416

510.00
215.00

737.50

73.75
3,416.25
436.25
7,786.25
1,935.00
4,755.00
1,020.00
1,308.75
73 .7 5
356.25

$1,544,595.00

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

214 U. S.

were paid for at steerage or third-class rates, and this regardless of whether cabin or steerage accommodations were
furnished. Minor children, that is, those under the age of ten
years, were paid for at half the adult rate.
On August 15, 1908, Ceballos & Co. commenced this action
in the Court of Claims to recover a balance alleged to be due
under the Philippine contracts for the carriage of 3,445 cabin
passengers at $215 each; 415 minor children, carried in cabin
at half rate, $107.50; 13,647 steerage passengers at $73.75 each,
and 20 minor children carried in steerage at half steerage rate,
$36.75 each. For this service it was averred $1,792,491.25
had been earned, and after deducting payments of $1,544,595
there was still due Ceballos & Co. $247,896.25. Subsequently
an amended petition was filed, in which full adult cabin and
steerage rates were demanded for minor children, increasing
the alleged indebtedness of the United States to the sum of
$293,246.25.
A counterclaim, contained in three numbered paragraphs,
was filed on behalf of the United States. In paragraph first it
was in substance averred that the United States was entitled
to recover back from the claimants the sum of $371,988.75,
paid for the transportation of persons under the alleged oral
contract in November and December, 1898, and January, 1899,
because the same was paid without authority of law prior to
the execution of any contract, expressed or implied, between
the United States and Ceballos & Co., or any one in its behalf.
In paragraph second an indebtedness from Ceballos & Co. of
$12,788.75 was alleged, because of moneys paid to the firm for
the transportation of persons who were not actually landed in
Spain as required by the contract. In paragraph third it was
averred that as to two shipments made on November 25, 1899,
and December 18, 1899, the claimants by means of a supplemental bill had collected a second time transportation charges
for fourteen military officers (at the rate of $215 each) and 91
enlisted men (at the rate of $73.75 each), whereby $9,721.25
had been overpaid by the United States to Ceballos & Co.

CEBALLOS & CO. v. UNITED STATES.
214 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

There was contention then in the court below in regard to the
number of persons carried from the Philippines to Spain and
as to the compensation to be paid. For the Government it
was urged that, deducting the overcharge covered by the third
counterclaim for the transportation of 105 persons, payment
in full had been made for all persons legally shbwn to have been
transported, viz., 17,305 persons. On the other hand, the
appellants contended that 17,527 persons had been carried, a
difference of 222 persons. As to such excess the Government
alleged it had refused payment as to 198 persons, because it
had not been shown by the evidence stipulated for in the contract that such persons had embarked and been carried to
Spain, and that it had refused payment as to the remaining
24, because twice counted.
The dispute as to compensation arose from the contention
by Cebalos & Co. that it had carried the wives and children
of Spanish military officers and civil officials in the cabin and
the cabin rate was properly chargeable, while the Government
insisted that the steerage rate applied and had been paid. Ceballos & Co. also contended that for the carriage of other noncombatants, who were entitled to be considered prisoners of
war, the cabin rate applied, whereas the Government contended that all non-combatants were embraced within the
category of "other persons," who under the contract were
to be carried in the steerage and paid for at the steerage
rate.
The court rejected the first and second counterclaims of the
Government and allowed the third. It sustained the contention of the United States as to the number of persons carried
to Spain and the rate of transportation which governed, except it was held that Ceballos & Co., instead of being paid
half adult steerage rate for the transportation of minor children, should have been allowed the full adult rate for each
child, and judgment was entered on that basis, in favor of
Ceballos & Co., for the sum of $5,391.25. 42 Ct. Clms. 318.
Without hereafter reproducing the findings verbatim, we

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

214 U. S.

shall state, in a condensed form such of the facts found as we
think material to be recited.
Ceballos & Co. alone have appealed and the argument at bar
on their behalf has been confined to two questions. 1, the
construction of the contract in respect to the persons entitled
to be carried at'cabin rates; 2, the correctness of the action of
the court below in disallowing the claim for the alleged transportation of 198 persons, asserted to have been actually carried under the contracts.
The court below substantially followed the construction of
the contract adopted by the Attorney General, and decided
that the "higher rate" specified in the contract related to one
class and the lower rate to another class, and within the second
class the contract embraced priests, nuns, sisters of charity,
all women and children and every other person designated
within the term "prisoners" by the United States, and
whether carried in the cabin or steerage. Civil officials were
held entitled to be classified with military officers and their
transportation properly chargeable at the cabin rate.
In disposing of the questions arising for consideration we
will first consider that relating to the 198 persons claimed by
the appellants to have been transported to Spain, but for
whose transportation the United States refused to make payment. As already mentioned, for the first twenty-five shipments of prisoners of war from the Philippine Islands to Spain
payment was made by the Government of the United States
upon the certificates of the masters of the respective ships on
which said prisoners of war and other persons were transported,
showing the different classes of passengers certified to be correct at the place of landing.
The method of determining the persons entitled to transportation under the written contract was, however, changed
as to the last fifteen shipments-running from February 20,
1900, to July 14, 1901, during which time it is claimed said
198 persons were carried to Spain-so that requests for transportation with reference to available space were required to

CEBALLOS & CO. v. UNITED STATES.
214 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

be made upon the appellants. Thereupon the United States
quartermaster at Manila made demand upon the appellants in
writing to furnish transportation "to the following Spanish
prisoners," separately enumerating, as the case might be, the
number of commissioned officers, the number of enlisted men,
the number of civil officials, the number of wives of officers and
officials, the number of children under three years of age, the
number of children between three and ten years of age, the
number of children over ten years of age, etc.
Pursuant to the requisition of the Quartermaster General
all the men who were placed on the list of passengers for each
shipment were required to be at a particular place at a certain
time in the morning, and they were counted by an officer of
the Quartermaster's Department and taken aboard launches
and carried out to the Spanish vessel ready to sail; and as they
went on board the persons mentioned in the requisitions were
counted by another United States officer, accompanied with
the officer who represented the steamship company. Occasionally permission was given to officers of considerable rank
to go aboard in their own conveyances, and these were checked
off when they went aboard by an officer representing the Government and an officer representing Ceballos & Co., and were
thereby included in the numbers called for by the requisitions.
No objections were offered by Ceballos & Co. at the time of
the change in the method of computing the number of persons
to go aboard.
The 198 persons in question were not embraced in the requests sent by the quartermaster for transportation nor were
they included in the count at the time and place of 6mbarkation. The accounts presented to the Treasury for payment
asked compensation for the transportation of such persons,
based upon certificates signed by the American consul at the
landing place in Spain, to the effect "that the following Spanish prisoners," classifying the persons substantially as in the
requisitions above referred to, had been "furnished transportation from Manila, P. I., to Spain," by the appellants on a
VOL. ccxiv-5

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

214 U. S.

named steamship. For the reason that the method prescribed by the contract for determining the initial fact that the
persons had been taken on board in the Philippine Islands by
the appellants had not been pursued, and further because the
evidence did not establish to the satisfaction of the court that
said 198 persons, although certified by the consul to have been
landed in Spain, were entitled to transportation under the contract, the Court of Claims refused to make any allowance for
the transportation of such persons. The passages of the contract relating to this branch of the controversy are as follows:
"An account of the number of officers, enlisted men, or
other persons to be taken at the time of embarkation by a
representative of the Government of the United States and a
representative of the said J. M. Ceballos & Co., and payment to
the said company shall be made upon the basis of the number
of officers, enlisted men, and persons counted on each ship."
After reciting the compensation to be paid, the contract
recited:
"The said sums to be due and payable upon evidence that
said officers, enlisted men, or persons have been transported,
subsisted, and delivered on shore in Spain."
In refusing to make any allowance for the asserted transportation of these 198 persons, we cannot say, in view of the
findings of the court below, that error was committed.
We come to consider the remaining subject of contention,
which is thus succinctly stated in the third specification of
error made in the brief of counsel for Ceballos & Co.: "The
court erred in holding that the wives and children of Spanish
officers, civil and military, and other non-combatant prisoners
of war, although transported as first-class passengers and afforded cabin accommodations aboard ship, were to be paid for
at the third-class rate specified in the contract, to wit, $73.75."
The principal question involved in this assignment is
whether the United States shall pay cabin rates for the transportation of the wives and children of Spanish officers, and
other officials of equal rank, who were in fact returned to

CEBALLOS & CO. v. UNITED STATES.
214 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Spain with such officers as cabin passengers. As stated in the
findings the oral agreement made in October or November,
1898, between Ceballos & Co. and the Secretary of War was
"to transport such of the Philippine prisoners as the United
States desired to return to Spain," the compensation therefor
to be fixed by the written contract which was expected to be
thereafter entered into. There was no substantial change in
the method of carrying out this oral contract from that pursued with respect to the Cuban contract. In the Philippines,
as in Cuba, the United States tendered with the military officers and civil officials which it desired carried to Spain their
wives and children. The proposals invited as the basis of a
written contract, were couched in similar phraseology to that
employed in the Cuban contract, and called for proposals for
the transportation "of the Spanish prisoners of war now in
the Philippine Islands

.

.

.

in number estimated as about

16,000 officers and enlisted men." When, therefore, Ceballos & Co. submitted a bid for furnishing such transportation,
in reason they held themselves out as ready if the United
States tendered for transportation the wives and children of
the officers and enlisted men of the Spanish forces to regard
them as entitled to the same treatment required by the Government for the head of the family. We cannot impute to the
parties to the contract an intention to condemn and refuse to
give effect to the practice which had been pursued in carrying out the oral agreement, that is, the treating the wives and
children as entitled to transportation and as being for the
purpose of the accommodations to be furnished, of the class
to which the Government had in effect assigned their male
relatives. That the classification referred to as "such other
persons as may be designated by the Secretary of War" was
not intended to embrace the wives and children of officers, is,
it seems to us, manifest from the entire text. The Government was concerned not only with the furnishing of safe but
of comfortable accommodation to those who were to be carried
on the long voyage from Manila to Spain. It exacted from

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

214 U. S.

Ceballos & Co. a stipulation that it should provide "safe and
comfortable transportation" for those to be carried; the officers with "cabin accommodations," and "third-class or steerage accommodations, space and ventilation to be supplied for
the enlisted men and other persons on board each ship." It
is to be presumed that the agents of the United States in
the Philippines saw to it that this stipulation of the contract
was observed. It is inconceivable, however, that the Government or the appellants intended to commit such an act of inhumanity as would necessarily have arisen if the written contract required that the family of an officer should be separated
from the husband and father on shipboard and be relegated
to the discomforts of the steerage and the society of enlisted
men and other persons. Clearly the spirit of the contract is
opposed to any such conception. The wives and children of
the officers and enlisted men were associated with them in the
written terms of capitulation of the Spanish forces at Manila,
signed August 14, 1898, the fifth article which, again reproduced, is as follows:
"All questions relating to the repatriation of officers and
men of the Spanish forces and of their families, and of the expenses which said expatriation may occasion, shall be referred
to the Government of the United States at Washington."
Under the Cuban contract the wives and children of officers
were treated as entitled to be classed with the head of the
family in respect to the accommodation to be supplied, and
in the performance of the Philippine oral contract a like
practice was pursued. In effect, therefore, by a course of
conduct the United States had associated the wives and children of the officers and enlisted men with such officers and men
for the purpose of the transportation to be furnished and the
treatment to be accorded them on the homeward voyage.
Just as in the opinion rendered by the Attorney General, civil
officials of equal grade with military officers were assimilated
to such officers in construing the terms of the contract, so
we think an enlarged meaning must be taken as intended by

CEBALLOS & CO. v. UNITED STATES.
214 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the terms officers and enlisted men where employed in the
written contract. As observed by the Attorney General, in
the light of the purpose of the contract, which was to carry
out the engagements made by this Government with Spain, a
liberal construction should be accorded to the terms employed
in order to effectuate to the fullest extent the purposes intended by the treaty. Construing the written contract of
March 4, 1899, according to its manifest spirit, and looking to
the prior conduct of the parties, we are of opinion that such
contract and the oral contract which was dependent upon it, so
far as the wives and children of officers and enlisted men were
concerned, should receive the same construction as under the
Cuban contract, viz., that the wives and children of Spanish
officers tendered by the United States for transportation were
to be classed with such officers and the wives and children of
enlisted men were to receive like accommodations as were
given to enlisted men.
As it is not questioned by the United States that civil officials representing the Spanish government in the Philippines
were entitled, both under the oral and written contracts, to
cabin accommodations, we have assumed that construction
to be well founded. It follows from the reasoning heretofore
employed that the wives and children of such officials were
likewise entitled when tendered by the agents of the United
States for transportation to receive cabin accommodations,
and Ceballos & Co. on furnishing such accommodations were
entitled to compensation at the rate stipulated for cabin
service. In view, however, of the distinction shown to have
been made in the requisitions for space between adults and
minor children, the practice shown as to payments made under
the contract and the original demand of Ceballos & Co. in the
court below, we think it results that the parties in actual practice treated the full rate for children under ten years as but
half the adult rate specified in the contract, and we think that
rate ought to have been applied by the court below for each
minor child, whether carried in the cabin or in the steerage.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

214 U. S.

We are unable to yield our assent to the contention that
other non-combatants than the wives and children of officers,
enlisted men, and officials of the government of Spain should
be embraced in the class entitled as of right to cabin accommodations for which appellants were entitled to be compensated at cabin rates. The mere circumstance that a particular
person, although a non-combatant, was a constructive prisoner, did not-at least in the absence of evidence that the
United States tendered such person as a cabin passengerserve to take the person out of the category of persons whom
the Secretary of War might designate to receive transportation in the steerage at third-class rates.
From finding XIV it appears that the wives and children
above the age of ten years of military officers and civil officials
aggregated 1,327, and that the appellants were paid for the
transportation of each the steerage rate of $73.75, instead of
the cabin rate of $215 each. The appellants are, therefore,
entitled to a further payment on account of the transportation
of such persons of $141.25 each, in all, $187,438.75. It is also
shown in such finding that the number of children of Spanish
military officers and civil officials who were carried to Spain
and were under the age of ten years aggregated 395, and that
Ceballos & Co. were paid for their transportation $36.871
each, one-half the adult steerage rate, instead of $107.50 each,
one-half the adult cabin rates. Ceballos & Co. were, therefore,
entitled for such service to a further payment as to each child
of $70.621-, aggregating for the 395 children $27,896.87. From
the total of these sums, viz., $215,335.62, must, however,
be deducted the overpayment recited in the third counterclaim (which counter-claim the court below sustained), viz.,
$9,721.25, leaving due to Ceballos & Co. the sum of $205,614.37.
It results that the judgment of the Court of Claims must be
reversed, with instructions to enter a judgment in favor of the
appellants for the sum of $205,614.37, and
It is so ordered.

