CHESAPEAKE & OHIO RY. CO. v. McDONALD. 191
214 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

CHESAPEAKE AND OHIO RAILWAY COMPANY v.
McDONALD, ADMINISTRATOR.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF KENTUCKY.

No. 158.

Argued April 19, 1909.-Decided May 17, 1909.

The Federal question must be properly and seasonably set up in the
state court in order to give this court jurisdiction to review under
§ 709, Rev. Stat.
Where the state statute provides that an appeal from an order refusing
to remove a cause to the Federal court must be taken within two
years, and no appeal is taken, and the highest court of the State
decides that an appeal from the judgment in the case taken more
than two years after entry of the order refusing to remove does not
bring up that order for review, the Federal question has not been
properly preserved, and this court has no jurisdiction.
A Federal constitutional objection may be waived so far as having
the right of review of a judgment in the state court is concerned
where the question is not made in the state court by proper procedure. Harding v. Illinois, 196 U. S. 78.
31 Ky. L. R. 500, affirmed.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. E. L. Worthington, with whom Mr. W. H. Wadsworth,
Mr. W. D. Cochran and Mr. LeWright Browning were on the
brief, for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. A. D. Cole, with whom Mr. T. R. Phister, Mr. R. D.
Wilson and Mr. W. T. Cole were on the brief, for defendant in
error.
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.

The defendant in error, J. W. McDonald, as administrator
of Nancy J. Wilson, deceased, on March 23, 1900, brought

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

214 U. S.

suit in the Lewis Circuit Court of Kentucky against the Chesapeake and Ohio Railway Company and the Maysville and Big
Sandy Railroad Company, and certain employ6s of the former,
to recover damages for the alleged wrongful death of Nancy J.
Wilson. On May 29, 1900, the Chesapeake and Ohio Railway
Company, a corporation of Virginia, filed a petition for removal
of the case to the United States Circuit Court for the Eastern
District of Kentucky, and an order of removal was made accordingly. On September 3, 1902, the case having been remanded by the United States Circuit Court, it was redocketed
in the state court. On January 19, 1903, the plaintiff discontinued the action as against the five individual defendants. On
January 21, 1903, the Chesapeake and Ohio Railway Company
filed another petition to remove the case to the United States
Circuit Court on the ground of separable controversy. This
motion for removal was overruled by the Lewis Circuit Court,
and, thereafter, on May 19, 1904, the case went to trial in the
Lewis Circuit Court, and that court directed a verdict for the
railroad companies. Upon appeal to the Court of Appeals of
Kentucky that judgment was reversed. 27 Ky. L. R. 778.
A second trial of the case in the Lewis Circuit Court, on
September 27, 1906, resulted in a verdict and judgment for the
defendant in error. From that judgment an appeal was taken
to the Kentucky Court of Appeals and it was there affirmed.
31 Ky. L. R. 500.
The Federal question attempted to be presented grows out
of the alleged error in refusing, upon the second application,
to remove the cause from the Lewis Circuit Court to the United
States Circuit Court for the Eastern District of Kentucky.
The right to review a judgment of a state court by error
proceedings in this court is regulated by § 709 of the Revised
Statutes of the United States. To lay the foundation for such
right of review it is necessary to bring the Federal question in
some proper manner to the consideration of the state court
whose judgment it is sought to review; if this is not done, the
Federal question cannot be originated by assignments of error

CHESAPEAKE & OHIO RY. CO. v. McDONALD. 193
214 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

in this court. The Federal right asserted in this case comes
within the third class named in § 709 of the Revised Statutes,
wherein a right, title, privilege or immunity is claimed under
the United States, and the decision is against such right, title,
privilege or immunity. In this class of cases the statute requires that such right or privilege must be specifically set up
and claimed in the state court, and in any of the classes of
cases mentioned in § 709 it is essential that the record disclose
that the Federal question involved was decided, or that the
judgment necessarily involved the Federal right and decided
it adversely to the claim of the plaintiff in error. Columbia
Water Power Co. v. Columbia Street Ry., 172 U. S. 475;
Fowler v. Lamson, 164 U. S. 252; Clarke v. McDade, 165 U. S.
168, 172; Capital City Dairy Co. v. Ohio, 183 U. S. 238, 248.
In the latter case this court said:
"It is well settled that this court, on error to a state court,
cannot consider an alleged Federal question, when it appears
that the Federal right thus relied upon had not been by adequate specification called to the attention of the state court
and had not been by it considered, not being necessarily involved in the determination of the cause. Green Bay & Miss.
Canal Co. v. Patten Paper Co., 172 U. S. 52, 67; Oxley Stave
Co. v. Butler Co., 166 U. S. 648, 654, 655, and cases cited."
In the opinion of the Kentucky Court of Appeals in this case
the question of the correctness of the order of removal is not
considered, nor is there anything in the record to indicate that
the alleged error in refusing to remove the case on the second
application was brought to the attention of the Kentucky
Court of Appeals. In this court the assignments of error concern the alleged error in refusing to remove the case upon the
second application, and avers that the Kentucky Court of
Appeals erred in holding, in substance and effect, that the
plaintiff in error had no such right of removal. But, as we
have said, the assignments of error in this court cannot enlarge the right of review. Moreover it is apparent that if the
question of the right of removal was brought before the KenVOL. ccxiv-13

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

214 U. S.

tucky Court of Appeals upon the judgment to which this writ
of error is prosecuted, it would not have considered the question. The refusal to remove upon the second application was
in January, 1903. The judgment, which was taken to the
Court of Appeals for review in the present case was rendered
on September 27, 1906.
The Kentucky Civil Code of Practice provides that an appeal from judgments and final orders, which includes such
orders as the one now under consideration (Hall & Long v.
Ricketts, 9 Bush [Ky.], 366, 370), shall not be granted except
within two years after the right of appeal first accrued. No
appeal was taken from the order refusing to remove within
two years. At the time when the appeal in the present case
was made to the Kentucky Court of Appeals it was too late to
review the order refusing to remove. In the case of Ml. & B. S.
R. R. Co. v. Willis, 104 S. W. Rep. 1016, 1018, the Court of
Appeals of Kentucky, dealing with the question, said:
"It is further insisted that it was error not to grant the request of appellant to remove the action to the Federal court.
This motion was based upon the ground that the original petition did not state a good cause of action either against the
Chesapeake and Ohio Railway Company, which is a foreign
corporation, or the resident defendant, the Maysville and Big
Sandy Railroad Company. . . . The action of the lower
court refusing to transfer the action was made and entered in
July, 1903, and it is now too late to raise any question as to the
regularity of this ruling. In fact, this appeal is prosecuted
alone from the judgment rendered in October, 1906, and under
no state of case could this court review the error of the character complained of committed in 1903."
It is contended, however, that if the case were a removable
one the effect of filing a petition and bond was to divest the
jurisdiction of the state dourt, and this has been said in decisions of this court upon the subject. This does not mean, how,ever, that the right to review the judgment of a state court
only by proper proceedings under § 709 of the Revised Statutes

CHESAPEAKE & OHIO RY. CO. v. McDONALD.
214 U. S.

195

Opinion of the Court.

is in anywise altered or modified. When the state court upon
the second application refused to remove the case it was the
privilege of the railroad company to take a transcript of the
record and make an application to file it in the Federal Circuit
CoArt, and if that court sustained its jurisdiction it might have
protected the same by injunction against further proceedings
in the state courts, or, if the latter court refused to surrender the record, a writ of certiorari could issue to require
its transfer to the Circuit Court of the United States, Chesapeake & Ohio R. R. Co. v. McCabe, 213 U. S. 207 or remaining in the state court after that court refused to remove,
it might, after final judgment, have brought the case here for
review, but this does not mean that it could have a review of
the judgment of the state court when it has failed to invoke
the judgment of that court within the time prescribed by the
statute of the State for the review of such orders. Under the
statute in Kentucky the review of the order refusing to remove
could only be had within two years. Within that time the
plaintiffs in error could have taken the question to the Kentucky Court of Appeals, and, if the ruling was against it, after
final judgment, could have brought the case here for review.
But it could not remain in the state court, without any attempt
to have the order refusing the removal reviewed within the
statutory period, and escape its judgment on the ground that
it was void, if against it, because the case was a removable one.
In Harding v. Illinois, 196 U. S. 78, it was held that a Federtal constitutional objection might be waived, so far as having
the right of review of a judgment in a state court was concerned, where the record in the case disclosed that the question was not made in the state court by proper procedure or
argument in support of the assertion of the Federal question,
and the state court had for that reason held the right to review the Federal question waived.
We are of opinion that this case presents no valid exception
to the ruling of the state court upon a Federal question duly
reserved by some proper form of procedure, as is required by

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Statement of the Case.

214 U. S.

§ 709 of the Revised Statutes of the United States, in order to
be reviewable here.
It 'follows that the writ of error must be dismissed.
Dismissed.

ROGERS v. JONES.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSISSIPPI.
No. 196.

Submitted April 27, 1909.-Decided May 24, 1909.

Where the disposition of a Federal question is not necessary to the determination of the cause and the judgment is based on a distinct nonFederal ground broad enough to sustain it the writ of error cannot
be maintained.
Where an act of Congress providing for sale of real estate by a marshal
does not define a good and valid description, the question of sufficiency of description is one of general law; and so held in regard to
§ 4 of the act of February 16, 1839, c. 27, 5 Stat. 317, referring to
time and place for making judicial sales in Mississippi; and further
held that even if the time and place of sale were wrong under the
statute, this court had no jurisdiction as the judgment rested on
plaintiff's failure to deraign a title and other non-Federal questions
sufficient to sustain it.
THIS was a bill in equity brought by Rogers and others,
plaintiffs in error, November 11, 1903, in the Chancery Court
for Harrison County, Mississippi, to remove certain alleged
clouds from the title to lands situated in that county, and to
be put in possession of said lands, against J. T. Jones, Harrison County, and the persons constituting the board of supervisors of the county, as individuals and as composing that
board.
Defendants demurred, and the demurrer was overruled by
the Chancellor. An appeal was taken from this decree to the
Supreme Court of Mississippi, where the decree of the lower
court was reversed and the cause remanded. Jones v. Rogers,

