LEECH v. LOUISIANA.
214 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

other case. Even if a suit still could be maintained against
the succession when there was no property left in the inheritance, the private property of the heirs could not be held to
answer the judgment. On the other hand, if this could be regarded as a suit to enforce personal liability of such heirs as
could be caught, it would fail for reasons stated in Ubarri v.
Laborde. In view of the disposition of that case we deem it
needless to say more.
Judgment affirmed.

LEECH v. STATE OF LOUISIANA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF LOUISIANA.

No. 152. Submitted April 15, 1909.-Decided May 17, 1909.
The Mississippi river is a boundary between Mississippi and Louisiana
from below the port of, Natchez as far north as Louisiana extends; but below Natchez all the river is wholly within Louisiana,
and that State, subject only to the paramount power of Congress,
has exclusive jurisdiction over pilotage in the river between points
south of Natchez.
Section 4236, Rev. Stat., act of March 2, 1837, c. 22, 5 Stat. 153, allowing the master of vessels coming in or going out of ports on
boundary rivers to employ any pilot licensed by either State, does
not apply to pilotage to ports on a river below the point where it
becomes a boundary river; and a pilot licensed only by Mississippi
has no right to pilot a vessel from the Gulf of Mexico to New Orleans.
Quwere whether under ยง 4236 a pilot licensed only by Mississippi
can pilot a vessel from the Gulf to Natchez.
Neither continuity of water nor identity of name will make a river a
boundary river except where it flows between the States it separates
for a part of its course; it ceases to be a boundary river wherever
it is wholly within one State.
119 Louisiana, 522, affirmed.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. George H. Terriberry for plaintiff in error:
A regulation of pilots is a regulation of commerce, within

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

214 U. S.

the grant of power to Congress in the Constitution of the United
States. Cooley v. Wardens of Philadelphia,12 How. 299.
The act of August 7, 1789, 1 Stat. 54, is not a grant of
power to the States to pass pilot laws, but a legislative recognition that the power is concurrent in the States and the
United States until exercised by the latter. The Panama,
Fed. Cas. No. 10,702; S. C., 1 Deady, 27.
The navigable waters of the former Territories of Orleans
and Louisiana are public waterways of the Nation, subject to
common use. Act of March 3, 1811, c. 46, 2 Stat. L. 666.
The provisions of a state law, regulating pilots and pilotage, which are in direct and manifest conflict with the act of
March 2, 1837, concerning pilots, are inoperative and void.
The South Cambria, 27 Fed. Rep. 525.
A pilot licensed by the State of Delaware is entitled to recover for services in piloting a vessel up the Delaware Bay and
river to Philadelphia, notwithstanding a law of Pennsylvania
prohibiting any one from acting as such pilot without a Pennsylvania license. The Clymene, 9 Fed. Rep. 164; S. C., 12
Fed. Rep. 346.
The act of March 2, 1837, authorizing the master of a vessel
bound to, or from, a port situate on waters which are the
boundary between two States, to employ a pilot licensed by
the laws of either State, applies to the laws of coterminous
States situate upon a navigable river which is not a separating
boundary between them. The Clymene, supra.
A statute of Louisiana purporting to give to that State absolute authority over the subject of pilots and pilotage on the
Mississippi River to the exclusion of other States bordering
thereon is inoperative and void for the reason that it conflicts
with the act of March 2, 1837. The Glenearne, 7 Fed. Rep.
604; The Clymene, 9 Fed. Rep. 164; S. C. 12 Fed. Rep. 346;
The Chas. A. Sparks, 16 Fed. Rep. 480; The Abercorn, 26 Fed.
Rep. 877; The South Cambria,27 Fed. Rep. 525; The Alcalde,
30 Fed. Rep. 133; Dryden v. Commonwealth, 55 Kentucky, 598;
Cribb v. State, 9 Florida 409.

LEECH v. LOUISIANA.
214 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Walter Guion, Attorney General of the State of Louisiana, Mr. J. R. Beckwith and Mr. N. H. Nunez for defendant in
error:
The act of March 2, 1837, does not apply to the case at bar,
where the pilotage held to be unlawful was done upon waters
wholly within the State of Louisiana and over which the State
of Mississippi has no rights whatever. To come within the
terms of the statute, the vessel must be coming into or going
out of a port of entry situated upon waters which are the
boundary line between two States at the point where the port
is situated, and the statute cannot be made by construction to
cover or relate to ports situated on waters which, at the locality where the port is located, have both banks or shores
within the body and dominion of a single State. Cases cited
by plaintiff in error discussed and distinguished.
MR. JUSTIcE HoLMEs

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an information charging the plaintiff in error with piloting a foreign vessel from the Gulf of Mexico to New Orleans,
the port to which she was bound, he not being a duly qualified
pilot under the laws of Louisiana. He was convicted after a
trial, and the Supreme Court of the State pronounced the
judgment correct. 119 Louisiana, 522. By demurrer, motion
to quash and motion in arrest of judgment he raised the objection that the power of Louisiana was not exclusive, and
that a license from the Board of Pilot Commissioners for the
Harbor of Natchez, Mississippi, was a sufficient authority under the act of Congress of March 2, 1837, c. 22, 5 Stat. 153.
Rev. Stat., ยง 4236.
The Mississippi River, it will be remembered, is a boundary
between Mississippi and Louisiana from below the port of
Natchez as far north as Louisiana extends. On the other
hand, all the southernmost portion of the river is wholly within
Louisiana. The destination of the vessel which the plaintiff
in error undertook to pilot was to a point within this southernmost portion, New Orleans, as the information clharged.
VOL. ccxlv-12

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

214 U. S.

For the purposes of decision it may be assumed, although it is
disputed, that the State of Mississippi has attempted to authorize the plaintiff in error to do what he did, while Louisiana
has made his conduct criminal if it has power to do so under
the United States law.
The section of the Revised Statutes reads as follows: "The
master of any vessel coming into or going out of any port
situate upon waters which are the boundary between two
States, may employ any pilot duly licensed or authorized by
the laws of either of the States bounded on such waters, to
pilot the vessels to or from such port."
The case for the plaintiff in error depends upon the assumption that the "waters which are the boundary between two
States" are, in this case, the whole Mississippi River so far as
navigable. We are of opinion that the assumption is wrong,
and that the limit of the waters referred to is the point at
which they cease to be a boundary between two States.
Neither continuity of water nor identity of name will carry
them beyond that point. If the plaintiff in error had undertaken to pilot from the Gulf to Natchez, a different question
would have been presented, and it may be that in that case the
Mississippi license would have been good. But New Orleans,
although upon the Mississippi, is not situate upon waters
which are the boundary between two States, and therefore the
section relied upon does not apply. That being out of the way,
Louisiana had power to pass her local regulations. Rev. Stat.,
ยง4235. Act of August 7, 1789, c. 9, ยง4. 1 Stat. 54.
Judgment affirmed.

