Oct. 1873.]

c

]ARTEMEYER V. IOWA.
Syllabus.

whether the facts disclosed therein required a stamp to be
affixed to the draft or not. To decide the question proposed,
therefore, would avail nothing. An imperfect verdict, or
one on which no judgment can be rendered, must be set
aside, and a venire de novo awarded.* The case must therefore be dismissed.
It is proper to observe that in the case of United States v.
Ishan,t recently decided by this court, we held that no
stamp is required on drafts of the kind above described,
when not exceeding ten dollars in amount.
CASE DISMISSED.

BARTEMEYER V. IOWA.
1. The usual and ordinary legislation of the States regulating or prohibiting
the sale of intoxicating liquors raises no question under the Constitution
of the United States prior to the fourteenth amendment of that instrument.
2. The right to sell intoxicating liquors is not one of the privileges and immunities of citizens of the United States which by that amendment the
States were forbidden to abridge.
8. But if a case were presented in which a person owning liquor or other
property at the time a law was passed by the State absolutely prohibiting any sale of it, it would be a very grave question whether such a law
would not be inconsistent with the provision of that amendment which
forbids the State to deprive any person of life, liberty, or property
without due course of law.
4. While the case before the court attempted to present that question, it
failed to do it, because the plea, which is taken as true, did not state, in
due form and by positive allegation, the time when the defendant became the owner of the liquor sold; and, secondly, because the record
satisfied the court that this was a moot case, made up to obtain the
opinion of this court on a grave constitutional question, without the
existence of the facts necessary to raise that question.
5. In such a case, where the Supreme Court of the State to which the writ
of error is directed has not considered the question, this court will not
feel at liberty to go out of its usual course to decide it.
Bacon's Abridgment, title " Verdict" (M.) ; Tidd's Practice, 922, 9th
ed. ; Holland v. Fisher, Orlando Bridgman, 187, 188.
t 17 Wallace, 496. [The case had not been decided when the plesent one
was argued.-REP.]
VOL. XVIII.

BARTEMEYER V.

IOWA.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
6. Per Justices BRADLFY and FIELD.
Slaughter-House Cases.

This case distinguished from the

EaaoR to the Supreme Court of Iowa; the case being
thus:
Bartemeyer, the plaintiff in error, was tried before a justice of the peace on the charge of selling intoxicating liquors,
on the 8th of March, 1870, to one Timothy Hickey, in Davenport Township, in the State of Iowa, and was acquitted.
On an appeal to the Circuit Court of the State the defendant
filed the following plea:
"And now comes the defendant, F. Bartemeyer, and for plea
to the information in this cause says: He admits that at the
time and place mentioned in said infbrmation he did sell and
deliver to one Timothy Hickey one glass of intoxicating liquor
called whisky, and did then and there receive pay in lawful
money from said Hickey for the same. But defendant alleges
that he committed no crime known to the law by the selling of
the intoxicating liquor hereinbefore described to said Hickey, for
the reason that he, the defendant, was the lawful owner, holder,
and possessor, in the State of Iowa, of said property, to wit, said
one glass of intoxicating liquor, sold as aforesaid to said Hickey,
prior to the day on which the law was passed under which these
proceedings are instituted and prosecuted, known as the act for
the suppression of intemperance, and being chapter sixty-four
of the revision of 1860; and that, prior to the passage of said
act for the suppression of' intemperance, he was a citizen of the
United States and of the State of Iowa."
Without any evidence whatever the case was submitted
to the court on this written plea, the parties waiving a jury,
and a judgment was rendered that the defendant was guilty
as charged, and he was sentenced to pay a fine of $20 and
costs. A bill of exceptions was taken, and the case carried
to the Supreme Court of Iowa, and that court affirmed the
judgment of the Circuit Court and rendered a judgment for
costs against the defendant, who now brought the case here
on' error.
There was sufficient evidence that the main ground relied
on to reverse the judgment in the Supreme Court of Iowa

Oct. 1873.]

BARTEMEYER

V.

IOWA..

Statement of the case.

was, that the act of the Iowa legislature on which the prosecution was based, was in violation of the Constitution of the
United States.
The opinion of that court was in the record, and, so fhr
as the general idea was involved, that acts for suppressing
the use of intoxicating drinks are opposed to that instrument, the court contented themselves with a reference to the
previous decisions of that court, namely: Our House, No. 2,
v. The Slate,* Zumhof v. The State,t Santo v. The Slate ; cases
in which the negative of the idea is maintained. But, referring to the allegation in the plea that the defendant was
the owner of the liquor sold before the passage of the act
under which he was prosecuted, they said that the transcript
fhiled to show that the admissions and averments of the plea
were all the evidence in the case, and that other testimony
may have shown that he did not so own and possess the
liquor. [This, however, rather seemed, as the Reporter understood it, to be a mistake; at least the record,ยง if he read
it correctly, stated, as he has already said, that the plea was
all the evidence given and received on the trial.]
The case was submitted on printed arguments some time
ago, and when the Slaughter-louse Cases, reported in 16th
Wallace, 36, were argued; the position of the plaintiff in
error in this case being, as it partly was in those, that the
act of the State legislature, the maintenance of which by
the courts below was the ground of the writ of error, was in
violation of the fourteenth amendment to the Constitution,
which runs thus:
"All persons born or naturalized in the United States, and
subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the United States,
and of the State where they reside.
"No State shall make or enforce any law which shall abridge the
privileges or immunities of citizens of the United States; nor shall
any State deprive any person of life, liberty, or property without
due process of law, nor deny to any person within its jurisdiction
the equal protection of' the laws."
4 G. Greene, 171.
j lb. 526.
See bottom of page 6 of the same.

2 IoWa,' 165.

.BARTEMEYER

V. IOWA.

[Sul). Ct.

Opinion of the court.

The judgment was announced at the present term.
Mr. W. T. Dittoe, for the plainatiff in error; Mr. H. O' Connor,
Attorney-General of Iowa, for the State, contra.
Mr. Justice MILLER, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court, as follows:
The case has been submitted to us on printed argument.
That on the part of the plaintiff in error has taken a very
wide range, and is largely composed of the arguments familiar to all, against the right of the States to regulate
traffic in intoxicating liquors. So far as this argument deals
with the mere question of regulating this traffic, or even its
total prohibition, as it may have been affected by anything
in the Federal Constitution prior to the recent amendments
of that instrument, we do not propose to enter into a discussion. Up to that time it had been considered as falling
within the police regulations of the States, left to their judgment, and subject to no other limitations than such ar were,
imposed by the State constitution, or by the general principles supposed to limit all legislative power. It has never
been seriously contended that such laws raised any question,
growing out of the Constitution of the United States.
But the case before us is supposed by counsel of the plaintiff in error to present a violation of the fourteenth amendment of the Constitution, on the ground that the act of the
Iowa legislature is a violation of the privileges and immunities of citizens of the United States which that amendment
declares shall not be abridged by the States; and that in his
case it deprives him of his property without due process of
law.
As regards both branches of this defence, it is to be observed that the statute of Iowa, which is complained of,
was in existence long before the amendment of the Federal:
Constitution, which is thus invoked to render it invalid.
Whatever were the privileges and immunities of Mr. Bartemeyer, as they stood before that amendment, under the
Iowa statute, they have certainly not been abridged by any

Oct. 1873.]

BARTEMEYER V. IOWA.
Opinion of the court.

action of the State legislature since that amendment became
a part of the Constitution. And unless that amendment
confers privileges and immunities which he did not previously possess, the argument fails. But the most liberal
advocate of the rights conferred by that amendment have
contended fir nothing more than that the rights of the citizen previously existing, and dependent wholly on State laws
fbr their recognition, are now placed under the protection
of the Federal government, and are secured by the Federal
Constitution. The weight of authority is overwhelming
that no such immunity has heretofore existed as would prevent State legislatures from regulating and even prohibiting
the traffic in intoxicating drinks, with a solitary exception.
That exception is the case of a law operating so rigidly on
property in existence at the time of its passage, absolutely
prohibiting its sale, as to amount to depriving the owner of
his property. A single case, that of Wynehamer v. The
People,* has held that as to such property the statute would
be void for that reason. But no case has held that such a
law was void as violating the privileges or immunities of citizens of a State or of the United States. If, however, such
a proposition is seriously urged, we think that the right to
sell intoxicating liquors, so far as such a right exists, is not
one of the rights growing out of citizenship of the United
States, and in this regard the case falls within the principles
laid down by this court in the Slaughter-ilouse Cases.t
But if it were true, and it was fairly presented to us,
that the defendant was the owner of the glass of intoxicating liquor which he sold to Iickey, at the time that the
State of Iowa first imposed an absolute prohibition on the
sale of such liquors, then we concede-that two very grave
questions would arise, namely: 1. Whether this would be
a statute depriving him of his property without due process
of law; and secondly, whether if it were so, it would be so
far a violation of the fourteenth amendment in that regard
as would call for judicial action by this court?
* 8 Kernan, 486.

t 16 Wallace, 86.

134

BARTEMEYER V. IOWA.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

Both of these questions, whenever they may be presented
to us, are of an importance to require the most careful and
serious consideration. They are not to be lightly treated,
nor are we authorized to make any advances to meet them
until we are required to do so by the duties of our position.
In the case before us, the Supreme Court of Iowa, whose
judgment we are called on to review, did not consider it.
They said that the record did not present it.
It is true the bill of exceptions, as it seems to us, does
show that the defendant's plea was all the evidence given,
but this does not remove the difficulty in our minds. The
plea states that the defendant was the owner of the glass of
liquor sold prior to the passage of the law under which the
proceedings against him were instituted, being chapter sixtyfour of the revision of 1860.
If this is to be treated as an allegation that the defendant
was the owner of that glass of liquor prior to 1860, it is insufficient, because the revision of the laws of Iowa of 1860
was not an enactment of new laws, but a revision of those
previously enacted; and there has been in existence in the
State of Iowa, ever since the code of 1851, a law strictly prohibiting the sale of such liquors; the act in all essential particulars under which the defendant was prosecuted, amended
in some immaterial points. If it is supposed that the averment is helped by the statement that he owned the liquor
before the law was passed, the answer is that this is a mere
conclusion of law. He should have stated when he became
the owner of the liquor, or at least have fixed a date when
he did own it, and leave the court to decide when the law
took effect, and apply it to his case. But the plea itself is
merely argumentative, and does not state the ownership as a
fact, but says he is not guilty of any offence, because of such
fact.
If it be said that this manner of looking at the case is
narrow and technical, we answer that the record affords to
us on its face the strongest reason to believe that it has been
prepared from the beginning, for the purpose of obtaining
the opinion of this court on important constitutional ques.

Oct. 1873.]

BARTEMEYER V. IOWA.
Opinion of Bradley, J., concurring.

tions without the actual existence of the facts on which such
questions can alone arise.
It is absurd to suppose that the plaintiff, an ordinary retailer of drinks, could have proved, if required, that he had
owned that particular glass of whisky prior to the prohibitory liquor law of 1851.
The defendant, from his first appearance before the justice
of the peace to his final argument in the Supreme Court,
asserted in the record in various forms that the statute under
which he was prosecuted was a violation of the Constitution
of the United States. The act of the prosecuting attorney,
under these circumstances, in going to trial without any
replication or denial of the plea, which was intended manifestly to raise that question, but which carried on its face
the strongest probability of its falsehood, satisfies us that a
moot case was deliberately made up to raise the particular
point when the real facts of the case would not have done
so. As the Supreme Court of Iowa did not consider this
question as raised by the record, and passed no opinion on
it, we do not feel at liberty, under all the circumstances, to
pass on it on this record.
The other errors assigned being found not to exist, the
judgment of the Supreme Court of Iowa is affirmed.
Mr. Justice BRADLEY, concurring:
Whilst I concur in the conclusion to which the court has
arrived in this case, I think it proper to state briefly and
explicitly the grounds on which I distinguish it from the
Slaughter-House Cases, which were argued at the same time.
I prefer to do this in order that there may be no misapprehension of the views which I entertain in regard to the application of the fourteenth amendment to the Constitution.
This was a prosecution for selling in'toxicating liquor, in
Iowa, contrary to a law of that State which prohibits the
sale of such liquor. The defendant pleaded that he was the
lawful owner of the liquor in Iowa and a citizen of the
United States prior to the day on which the law was passed,
being chapter sixty-four of the revision of 1860. Judgment

BARTEMEYER V. IOWA.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Bradley, J., concurring.

was given against the defendant on his plea. The truth is,
that the law in question was originally passed in 1851 and
was incorporated into the revision of 1860, in the chapter
referred to in the plea. Whether the plea meant to assert
that the defendant owned the liquor prior to the passage of
the original law, or only prior to its re-enactment in the revision, is doubtful, and, being doubtful, it must be interpreted most strongly against the pleader. It amounts, therefore, only to an allegation that the defendant became owner
of the liquor at a time when it was unlawful to sell it in
Iowa. The law, therefore, was not in this case an invasion
of property existing at the date of its passage, and the question of depriving a person of property without due process
of law does not arise. No one has ever doubted that a
legislature may prohibit the vending of articles deemed
injurious to the safety of ociety, provided it does not interfere with vested rights of property. When such rights
stand in the way of the public good they can be removed
by awarding compensation to the owner. When they are
not in question, the claim of a right to sell a prohibited
article can never be deemed one of the privileges and immunities of the citizen. It is loto ccelo different from the
right not to be deprived of property without due process of
law, or the right to pursue such lawful avocation as a man
chooses to adopt, unrestricted by tyrannical and corrupt
monopolies. By that portion of the fourteenth amendment
by which no State may make or enforce any law which shall
abridge the privileges and immunities of citizens of the
United States, or take life, liberty, or property, without due
process of law, it has now become the fundamental law of
this country that life, liberty, and property (which include
the pursuit of happiness") are sacred rights, which the
Constitution of the United States guarantees to its humblest
(itizen against oppressive legislation, whether national or
local, so that he cannot be deprived of them without due
process of law. The monopoly created by the legislature
of Louisiana, which was under consideration in the SlaughterHouse Cases, was, in my judgment, legislation of this sort

Ocet. 1873.]

BARTEMEYER V. IOWA.
Opinion of Field, J., concurring.

and obnoxious to this objection. But police regulations,
intended for the preservation of the public health and the
public order, are of an entirely different character. So
much of the Louisiana law as partook of this character was
never objected to. It was the unconscionable monopoly, of
which the police regulation was a mere pretext, that was
deemed by the dissenting members of the court an invasion
of the right of the citizen to pursue his lawful calling. A
claim of right to pursue an unlawful calling stands on very
different grounds, occupying the same platform as does a
claim of right to disregard license laws and to usurp public
franchises. It is greatly to be regretted, as it seems to me,
that this distinction was lost sight of (as I think it was) in
the decision of the court referred to.
I am authorized to say that Justices SWAYNE and FIELD
'concur in this opinion.
Mr. Justice FIELD, concurring:
I concur in the views expressed by Mr. Justice BRADLEY,
but will add a few observations.
I accept the statement made in the opinion of the court,
that the act of Iowa of 1860, to which the plea of the def ndant refers, was only a revision of the act of 1851, aind
agree that, for this reason the averment of the ownership of
the liquor sold prior to the passage of the act of 1860 did
not answer the charge for which the defendant was prosecuted. I have no doubt of the power of the State to regulate the sale of intoxicating liquors when such regulation
does not amount to the destruction of the right of property
in them. The right of property in an article involves the
power to sell and dispose of such article as well as to use
;and enjoy it. Any act which declares that the owner shall
neither sell it nor dispose of it, nor use and enjoy it, confis.cates it, depriving him of his property without due process
,of law. Against such arbitrary legislation by any State the
fourteenth amendment affords protection. But the prohibi+ion of sale in any way, or for any use, is quite a different

BARTEMEYER

V. IOWA.

[Sup. ct..

Opinion of Field, J., concurring.

thing from a regulation of the sale or use so as to protect
the health and morals of the community. All property,
even the most harmless in its nature, is equally subject to,
the power of the State in this respect with the most noxious.,,
No one has ever pretended, that I am aware of, that the
fourteenth amendment interferes in any respect with the
police power of the State. Certainly no one who desires to
give to that amendment its legitimate operation has ever
asserted for it any such effect. It was not adopted for any
such purpose. The judges who dissented from the opinion
of the majority of the court in the Slaugher-House Cases.,
never contended for any such position. But, on the contrary, they recognized the power of the State in its fullest
extent, observing that it embraced all regulations affecting,
the health, good order, morals, peace, and safety of society,
that all sorts of restrictions and burdens were imposed under
it, and that when these were not in conflict with any constitutional prohibition or fundamental principles, they could
not be successfully assailed in a judicial tribunal. But they
said that under the pretence of prescribing a police regulation the State could not be permitted to encroach upon any
of the just rights of the citizen, which the Constitution intended to guard against abridgment; and because, in their
opinion, the act of Louisiana, then under consideration, went
far beyond the province of a police regulation, and created
an oppressive and odious monopoly, thus directly impairing
the common rights of the citizens of the State, they dissented from the judgment of the court.
They could not then, and do not now, see anything in the.
act which fell under the denomination of a police or sanitary
regulation, except the provisions requiring the landing andi
slaughtering of animals below the city of New Orleans and
the inspection of the animals before they were slaughtered;
and of these provisions no complaint was made. All else
was a mere grant of special and exclusive privileges. And
it was incomprehensible to them then, and it is incompre.
hensible to them now, how, in a district of country nearly
as large as the State of Rhode Island, and embracing a pop,

Oct. 1873.]

BARTEMEYER V.

IOWA.

Opinion of Field, J., concurring.

ulation of over two hundred thousand souls, any conditions
of health or morals should require that the preparation of
animal food, a prime necessity of life, should be intrusted
to a single corporation for twenty-five years; or how in all
that vast district, embracing eleven hundred and fifty-four
square miles, there could be only one locality and one building in which animals could with safety to the public health
be sheltered and slaughtered. And with all the light shed
upon the subject by the elaborate opinion of the majority,
they do not yet understand that it belongs to the police
power of any State to require the owner of animals to give
to the butcher a portion of each animal slaughtered. If the
State can say the owner shall give the horns and the hoofs,
it may say he shall give the hide and the tallow, or any part
of the animal. It may say that the butcher shall retain the
four quarters and return to the owner only the head and
the feet. The owner may require the very portions he is
compelled to surrender for his own business-the horns, for
example, for the manufacture of combs, and the hoofs for
the manufacture of glue, and other portions for equally useful purposes.
It was because the act of Louisiana transcended the limits of police regulation, and asserted a power in the State to
farm out the ordinary avocations of life, that dissent was
made to the judgment of the court sustaining the validity
of the act.
It was believed that the fourteenth amendment had taken
away the power of the State to parcel out to favored citizens
the ordinary trades and callings of life, to give to A. the sole
right to bake bread; to B. the sole right to make hats; to C.
the sole right to sow grain or plough tie fields; and thus at
discretion, to grant to some the means of livelihood, and
withhold it from others. It was supposed that there were
no privileges or immunities of citizens more sacred than
those which are involved in the right to "the pursuit of
happiness," which is usually classed with life and liberty;
and that in the pursuit of happiness, since that amendment
became part of the fundamental law, every one was free to

140

BARTEMEYER V. IOWA.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Field, J., concurring.

follow any lawful employment without other restraint than
such as equally affects all other persons.
Before this amendment and the thirteenth amendment
were adopted, the States had supreme authority over all
these matters, and the National government, except in a
few particulars, could afford no protection to the individual
;against arbitrary and oppressive legislation. After the civil
war had closed, the same authority was asserted, and, in the
States recently in insurrection, was exercised to the oppres;sion of the freedmen; and towards citizens of the North
,seeking residence there, or citizens resident there who had
maintained their loyalty during the war for nationality, a
feeling of jealousy and dislike existed which could not fail
:soon to find expression in discriminating and hostile legislation. It was to prevent the possibility of such legislation
in future, and its enforcement where already adopted, that
the fourteenth amendment was directed. It grew out of
the feeling that a union which had been maintained by such
,costly sacrifices was, after all, worthless if a citizen could
-not be protected in all his fundamental rights everywhereNorth and South, East and West-throughout the limits of
the Republic. The amendment was not, as held in the
,opinion of the majority, primarily intended to confer citizenship on the negro race. It had a much broader purpose;
it was intended to justify legislation, extending the protection of the National government over the common rights
of all citizens of the United States, and thus obviate objections to the legislation adopted for the protection of the
,emancipated race. It was intended to make it possible for
all persons, which necessarily included those of every race
and color, to live in peace and security wherever the juris,diction of the nation reached. It, therefore, recognized, if
it did not create, a National citizenship, and made all persons citizens except those who preferred to remain under
the protection of a foreign government; and declared that
)their privileges and immunities, which embrace the fundamental rights belonging to citizens of all free governments,
should not be abridged by any State. This National citi-

Oct. 1873.]

SYKES

V. CHADWICK.

147

Syllabus.

zenship is primary, and not secondary. It clothes its pos
sessor, or would do so if not shorn of its efficiency by construction, with the right, when his privileges and immunities
are invaded by partial and discriminating legislation, to appeal from his State to his Nation, and gives him the assurance that, for his protection, he can invoke the whole power
of the government.
This case was considered by the court in connection with,
the Saughter-House Cases, although its decision has been so
long delayed. I have felt, therefore, called upon to point
out the distinction between this case and those cases, and as
there has been some apparent misapprehension of the views
of the dissenting judges, to restate the grounds of their dissent.
I concur in the judgment in this case.
JUDGMENT

AFFIRMED.

SYKES V. CHADWICK.
A woman's right of dower being a valuable right which she cannot be
compelled to resign, and which the law protects very carefully from
her husband's control, her release of it is a good consideration for a
promise to pay money to her separate use. Accordingly, where a husband and another, owning a piece of land in the District of Columbia,
which they wanted to sell, applied to the wife (all parties being residents of the District) to release her dower, which she did in consideration of the husband and the other executing to her directly a joint
promissory note for a sum of money; Held:
1st. That in virtue of the act of 10th April, 1869 (14 Stat. at Large, 45),
regulating the rights of property of married women in the District of
Columbia, by which it is enacted, "that the right of a married woman to
any property belonging to her at the time of marriage, or acquired during marriage, in any other way than by gift or oenveyance from her husband, shall be
as absolute as if she were a feme sole, and not subject to the disposal of her
u1n3band or liable for hi, debts ; and that she may convey or bequeath the same
as if she were unmarried ; also, that any married woman may contract and sue
and be sued in her own name in all matters having relation to her sole and sepaAnd in virtue
rate property in the same manner as if she were unmarried:"
of the further act, to amend the law of the District of Columbia in rela.

