.)ANDELET V.

SMITH.

[Sup. (".

Syllabus.

the right of the indorser, in the absence of the Bankrupt
law, to set up a tender by the debtor and a refusal of the
note-holder to receive payment, as a defence to a suit against
him as indorser, no court of law or equity could sustain
such a defence, while that law furnishes the paramount rule
of conduct for all the parties to the transaction; and when
in obeying the mandates of that law the indorser is placed in
no worse position than he was before, while by receiving
the money the holder of the note makes himself liable to a
judgment for the amount in favor of the bankrupt's assignee,
and loses his right to recover, either of the indorser or of
the bankrupt's estate.
We are of opinion, therefore, notwithstanding the hardship of the case, which is more apparent than real, that the
payment must be held to be a preference within the Bankrupt law, and that the judgment of the court below, that
the assignee should recover it, must be
AFFIRMED.

DANDELET V.

SMITH.

1. Under the twentieth section of the Internal Revenue Act of June 30th,
1864, as amended by the ninth section of the act of July 13th, 1866, it
is not necessary that an assessor, in making a reassessment for deficien-

cies, should make his reassessment coincide, month by month, in the

2

8

terms which it covers, with the monthly returns of the manufacturer;
that is to say, it is not requisite that he should make a separate specification of deficiency for each defective return.
Nor, under the terms of the act of 1866, when the reassessment was made
within fifteen months from the passage of the act, was it necessary
that the reassessment should have reference only to returns made within
fifteen months prior to the reassessment.
Nor, under the act of larch 2, 1867, conceding that since the act of 1866
brewers are taxable, in the first instance, by stamps per barrel, and not
on monthly returns, would a reassessment for deficiency be void, even
though it had been made out on the principle of an assessment for false
returns, under the previous act of July 13th, 1866.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of Maryland;
the case being thus:

Oct. 1873.j

DANDELET V. SMIT11.
Statement of the case.

By different Internal Revenue Acts a tax was laid on
brewers, by which they were made liable thus:
From September, 1862, to March 1st, 1863,
From March 1st, 1863, to March 31st, 1864,
From April 1st, 1864, .

.

$1 00 per bbl.*
60 per bbl.t
1 00 per bbl.:

And after the 30th of June, 1864, a penalty of 50 cents
was added where the return was erroneous because of refusal or neglect.
By the Internal Revenue Act of June 30th, 1864§ (section
20), the assessors were to make out lists containing the
names of persons residing in their respective districts, and
having property liable to tax, together with the sums payable
by each, which lists the assessors were to send to the collectors.
The Internal Revenue Act of July 13th, 1866,11 enacted
further (by its ninth section):
"The assessor may, from time to time, or at any time within
fifteen months from the time of the passage of this act, or from the
time of the delivery of the list to the collector as aforesaid, enter
on any monthly or special list, . . . the names of the persons
or parties, in respect to whose returns as aforesaid there has
been or shall be any omission, undervaluation, understatement,
or false or fraudulent statement, together with the amounts for
which such persons or parties may be liable, over and above the
amount for which they may have been, or shall be, assessed
upon any return, or returns made as aforesaid, and shall certify
or return said list to the collector as required by law."
This same act of 1866 changed the mode of assessing
and collecting the tax on malt liquors,
and made the tax on
them after the 1st of September, 1866, payable by stamps.

And an act of March, 1867, by its fifth section** enacted:
"That ifthe manufacturer of any article upon which a tax is
required to be paid by means of a stamp, shall have sold or removed for sale any such articles, without the use of the proper

*

12 Stat. at Large, 450.

t 1b. 723.

13 Stat. at Large, 229.
14 Stat. at Large, 472.

ii 14 Id. 104.

: 14 Id. 164.

Sections 52-58.

DANDELET

V. SMITH.

[Sul. Ct

Argument for the brewer.

stamp, in addition to the penalties now imposed . . . it shall be
the duty of the assessor . . . upon such information as he can

obtain, to estimate the amount of the tax which has been
omitted to be paid, and to make an assessment therefor, and
certify the same to the collector; and the subsequent proceedings for collection shall be in all respects like those for the collection of taxes upon manufactures and productions."
In this state of the law Dandelet, a brewer, in Baltimore,
from the year 1862 had made monthly statements or returns
to the assessor of what beer he admitted that he made, and
these were delivered to the collector. In August, 1867, the
assessor made an assessment for alleged deficiencies, the
same being in the following fbrm:
F. Dandelet'sAssessment.
.
Deficiency from Sept. 1, '62, to Feb. 28, '68, 522 bbls. ® $1,
Deficiency from March 1, '63, to March 31, '64, 922 bbls. @ 60 c.,
Deficiency from April 1, '64, to June 30, '64, 216 bbls. ® $1,
Deficiency from July 1, '64, to April 20, '67, 1425 bbls. ( $1,
Fifty cents penalty on $1425,

$522
555
216
1425
712

00,
00
00
00
50

$3480 50

This assessment was entered on the monthly list for August, 1867, delivered to one Smith as collector, and after
the remission of the penalty of $712.50, the balance was
paid under protest. An appeal was duly made by Dandelet
to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, and was dismissed, after which this suit was brought to recover back
the tax paid; and being tried by the court, judgment was
given for the defendant. That judgment it was which was
now brought here for review.
Messrs. G. C. Maunde and J. C. King, for the plaintiff in
error:

First. The assessment is void upon its face. Even if the
assessor had authority to reassess for the whole term intervening between September, 1862, and April 20th, 1867, he
had no right to divide the term arbitrarily, as he has done.
He should have reassessed month by month, indicating the

Oct. 1878.]

DANDELET V. SMITH.

645

Opinion of the court.

deficiency for each month, so as to make his reassessment
coincide in time with the monthly returns of the brewer.
The ninth section of the act of July 18th, 1866, was obviously designed to give to the brewer the privilege of knowing which one of his monthly returns was asserted by the
assessor to be deficient, and the amount of the deficiency.
The accusation of the assessor would then be so specific as
to admit of a defence; but how can the brewer defend himself against a reassessment so arbitrary and sweeping in
point of time as the one made in this case ?
Second. If the section referred to embraces brewers then
the reassessment is void, because it disregarded the fifteen
months limitation clause contained therein. Instead of confining himself, as he was bound by the law to do, to fifteen
months, the assessor in this case covered by his reassessment
a term of nearly five years.
Third. But the section does not refer at all to the tax
assessed upon brewers. This section only contemplates
those persons whose duty it was, under the law, to make returns of what they made. But after September 1st, 1866,
brewers were to pay by stamps, and as during that term
Dandelet made no returns, and was not required by law to
make them, but paid his tax by stamps, this reassessment
was unauthorized.

Mr. G. -H. Williams, Attorney-General,and Mr. S. F. Phillips,
Solicitor-General, contra.
Mr. Justice BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
The question in this case is whether the assessment for
alleged deficiencies was or was not illegal.
1. It is contended by the plaintiff in error that the assessment is void upon its face, because not made month by
month so as to indicate the deficiency for each month, and
to make the reassessment coincide in time with the monthly
returns of the plaintiftf It is sufficient to say that the law*
* Section 20, as amended by act of July 18th, 1866, 14 Stat. at Large, 104.

DANDELET V.

SMITH.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

does not require this to be done. All that the statute requires is a list of the names of parties whose returns have
been deficient, with the amounts for which they are liable
over and above the amount for which they may have been
assessed upon any return or returns. This language does
not, by its terms, require a separate specification of deficiency for each defective return. "The amount for which
a person has been assessed upon any return or returns," may
be an aggregate of many sums; and it is the deficiency of
this amount which is to be reassessed. It may frequently
happen that the assessor could not possibly tell in what particular month the deficiencies occurred, and yet he may have
demonstrative evidence of the deficiency of the aggregate
amount returned.
2. It is contended that, by the act, the assessor could only
go back fifteen months. We do not so understand it. The
language is: "The said assessor may, from time to time, or
at any time within fifteen months from the time of the passage of this act, or from the time of the delivery of the list
to the collector as aforesaid, enter in any monthly or special
list the names," &c. The first limitation, " within fifteen
months from the time of the passage of this act," evidently
relates to past deficiencies; the others to future. The reassessment in this case was made within fifteen months after
the passage of the act, and the assessor was justified in reviewing the past returns as he did.
3. It is lastly objected, that the law in question, namely,
the twentieth section of the Internal Revenue Act of June
30th, 1864, as amended by the ninth section of the act of
July 13th, 1866, does not refer at all to the tax assessed
upon brewers, inasmuch as they were required, by the same
act of 1866, to use stamps, instead of making monthly returns, from and after the 1st of September, 1866; whereas,
the amended twentieth section authorizing a reassessment,
only applied, by its terms, to defective "returns."
The
language refers to past as well as future returns; and, therefore, expressly covers all returns made prior to September
1st, 1866. The reassessment in this case is for deficiency

Oct. 1873.]

DANDELET

V.

SMITH.

Opinion of the court.

from September 1st, 1862, to April 20th, 1867, namely:
prior to March 1st, 1863, 522 barrels; thence to April 1st,
1864, 922 barrels; thence to July 1st, 1864, 216 barrels;
thence to April 20th, 1867, 1425 barrels. It is only the last
period which embraces a portion of time in which stamps
were used. But it embraced twenty-six months during
which assessments were made upon monthly returns, and
non constat, but that the deficiency of 1425 barrels arose in
that time. The reassessment does not show that any portion of that deficiency arose after September 1st, 1866.
But suppose that a portion of it did arise after that tine,
when stamps were required to be used. The brewer may
have made more beer than he stamped, and by the fifth section of the act of March 2d, 1867,* it is enacted that "if the
manufacturer of any article upon which a tax is required to
be paid by means of a stamp, shall have sold or removed for
sale any such articles, without the use of the proper stamp,
in addition to the penalties . . . imposed, . . . it shall be
the duty of the assessor, . . . upon such information as he
can obtain, to estimate the amount of the tax which has
been omitted to be paid, and to make an assessment therefor, and certify the same to the collector; and the subsequent proceedings for collection shall be in all respects like
those for the collection of taxes upon manufactures and productions."
Now, in what more proper form could the assessor make
a certificate of "the amount of the tax which has been
omitted to be paid," than he did in this case? If a more
proper form could be devised, still is not the form used by
the assessor in this case admissible ?
The exact truth always lies in the knowledge of the manufacturer. His books show, or ought to show, everything
that he has produced, and in an investigation of this kind,
if he shows that his returns or stamps fully equal the amount
of his production and sale, the burden will then be on the
government to show a deficiency. • The form of the assess* 14 Stat. at Large, 742.

HORtNBUCKLE V.

TOOMBS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

ment adopted in this case can neither mislead nor embarrass
an honest manufacturer who has kept true and exact books
of account.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

HORNBUCKLE

v.

TOOMBS.

1. The practice, pleadings, and forms and modes of proceeding of the Terri.
torial courts, as well as their respective jurisdictions, were intended by
Congress to be left to the legislative action of the Territorial assemblies
and to the regulations which might be adopted by the courts themselves.
In case of any difficulties arising out of this state of things, Congress
has it in its power at any time to establish such regulations on this, as
well as on any other subject of legislation, as it shall deem expedient
and proper.
2. The cases of Noonan v. Lee (2 Black, 499), Orchard v. Hughes (1 Wallace,
.77), and Dunphy v. Kleinsmith (11 Id. 610), reconsidered and not
approved.
ERROR to the Supreme Court of the Territory of Montana;
the case being thus:
The seventh amendment to the Constitution ordains:

"In suits at common law, where, &c., the right of trial by jury
shall be preserved ; and no fact tried by a jury shall be otherwise re-examined than according to the rules of the common
law."
An early statute of the United States, the statute com-

monly known as the Process Act of 1792,* an act still in
force, enacts:
"That the forms of writs, executions, and other process, .
and the forms and modes of proceeding in suits"In those of the common law shall be the same as are now
used in the said courts, respectively, in pursuance of the act en.
titled , An act to regulate processes in the courts of the United
States.'
* 1 Stat. at Large, 276.

