Oct. 1873.]

SUPERVISORS V. UNITED STATES.

71

Syllabus.

real property, unless her title or right has existed within a
prescribed time, or rents or profits have been received within
that period. She thus allows a presumption to arise in
favor of any occupant of her lands, and that presumption
to become absolute, that she possesses no title or interest
therein, if within that period no assertion of her title or interest is made. But this presumption is rebutted when such
assertion is made, and it may be made by her as well by
legislative act as by judicial proceeding.
In the present case, the act creating the harbor commissioners and authorizing them to take possession and improve
the water front, was a public act relating to a matter of
public concern, of which the complainant and all others
were bound to take notice. Hardly anything, which we can
readily conceive of, would be more expressive of the intention of the legislature that the State should conserve her title
and interest in the whole water front of the city. In our
judgment, it prevented the complainant from acquiring the
title of the State by operation of the statute of limitations,
as effectually as if that statute had not been in existence.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

SUPERVISORS V. UNITED STATES.

Section 3276 of the Code of Iowa, which says:
"In case no property is found upon which to levy, which is not exempted by
the last section (section 3274), or if the judgment creditor elect not to issue execution against such corporation (a municipal one), he is entitled to the amount
of his judgment and costs in the ordinary evidences of indebtedness issued by
that corporation. And if the debtor corporation issues no scrip or evidences of
debt, a tax must be levied as early as practicable, sufficient to pay off the judg.
ment with interest and costs"
confers no independent power to levy a specific tax in order to pay a
judgment recovered against a municipal corporation on warrants for
ordinary county expenditures issued by such corporation since 1863, in
which year (as repeatedly since) the Supreme Court of Iowa decided this

to be the true interpretation of the section, and that where the power
had not otherwise been conferred it was not given bv that section.

SUPERVISORS

V.

UNITED

STATES.

[Slip. Ct.

Statement of the case.
.Butz v. C-:ty of Muscatine, where some language tending perhaps to a
different conclusion was used, distinguished from this case, in that here
the judgment was obtained after 1863, when the meaning of the section had been passed on by the Supreme Court of Iowa, and that there
the bonds sued on were issued prior to 1863, and when no decision as to
the meaning of the section had been made by the Supreme Court of
Iowa, and when this court "felt at liberty to adopt its own construction
and apply it to the case of the holder of the bonds, though it was adverse to that announced by the State court years after the bonds had
been issued."

IN error to the Circuit Court for the District of Iowa; the
case being thus:
On the 18th of May, A.D. 1869, one Reynolds obtained in
the court just named a judgment against Carroll County,
Iowa, for the sum of $19,946. The judgment was for the
amount due upon sundry county warrants issued for the ordinary expenditures of the county; all issued after January 1st,
1865. An execution having been awarded upon the judgment and returned "nulla bona," Reynolds sued out a writ
of mandamus to compel the board of supervisors of the
county to levy a specific tax sufficient to pay the debt, interest, and costs, and to apply the same, when collected, to
the payment. To this writ the supervisors returned, in substance (after averring that the judgment had been obtained
upoin ordinary county warrants issued for the ordinary expendituresof the county), that they had levied a county tax for the
current year of four mills on the dollar of the taxable property of the county, and that they proposed to levy a similar
tax for each succeeding year until the judgment should be
paid. They further returned that they had no power to levy
a tax at any higher rate. A general demurrer to this return
was then interposed, and the Circuit Court sustained it.
Hence this writ of error.
The question was whether, under the laws of Iowa, the
board of supervisors had power to levy a special tax, beyond
fourn mills on the dollar of the county assessment, in order
to pay the relator's judgment.
The solution of this question and the consequent correctness of the action of the Circuit Court depended upon the

Oct. 1873.]

SUPERVISORS

V.

UNITED STATES.

73

Statement of the case.

fact whether that court had rightly interpreted certain sections in the Revised Code of Iowa.

Section 710, of the revision of 1860, is as follows:
" The board of supervisors of each county in this State shall

annually, as hereinafter provided, levy the following taxes upon
the assessed value of the taxable property in the county:
"1st. For State revenue, one and one-half mills on a dollar,
when no rate is directed by the census board, but in no case
shall the census board direct a levy to be made exceeding two
mills on the dollar.
"2d. For ordinary county revenue, including the support of the
poor, not more than four mills on a dollar, and a poll tax of fifty
cents.
"3d. For support of schools, not less than one nor more than
two mills on a dollar.
"4th. For making and repairing bridges, not more than one
mill on the dollar, whenever the board of supervisors shall deem
it necessary."
By an act of April 2d, 1860, which took effect on the 1st
of January, 1861, the board of supervisors became the financial agents in place of the county judge.
Section 250* is this:
"The county judge [or as in consequence of the abovementioned act it now was the board of supervisors] may submit to
the people of his county at any regular election, or a special one
,called for that purpose, the question whether the money may
be borrowed to aid in the erection of public buildings; whether
the county will construct or aid to construct any road or bridge
which may call for an extraordinary expenditure; whether
,stock shall be permitted to run at large, or at what time it shall
,be prohibited, and the question of any other local or police
regulation not inconsistent with the laws of the State. And
when the warrants of the county are at a depreciated value, he
may in like manner submit the question whether a tax of a
higher rate than that provided by law shall be levied, and in
all cases when an additional tax is laid in pursuance of a vote
* Revision of 1860, or

114 of the Code of 1851.

74

SUPERVISORS V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

of the people of any county, for the special purpose of repaying
borrowed money, or of constructing or aiding to construct any
road or bridge, such tax shall be paid in money and in no other
manner."
The sections following, to 260, contain the details for the
submission of questions, and provide for carrying into effect
the propositions mentioned in section 250, which may be
adopted by a vote.
Section 252 declares:

"When a question so submitted involves the borrowing or
the expenditure of money, the proposition of the question must
be accompanied by a provision to lay a tax for the payment
thereof in addition to the usual taxes, as directed in the fbllowing section, and no vote adopting the question proposed will be
of effect unless it adopt the tax also."
Sections 3274 and 3275, in a chapter entitled " ExEcUTION," are as follows:

" SECTION 3274. Public buildings owned by the State, or any
county, city, school district, or other civil corporation, and any
other public property which is necessary and proper for carrying out the general purposes for which any such corporation is,
organized, are exempt from execution. The property of a private citizen can in no case be levied upon to pay the debt of a
civil corporation.
"SECTION 3275. In ease no property is found on which to,
levy, which is not exempted by the last section, or if the judgment creditor elect not to issue execution against such corporation, he is entitled to the amount of his judgment and costs in,
the ordinary evidences of indebtedness issued by that corporation. And if the debtor corporationissues no scrip or evidences of
debt, a tax must be levied as early as practicable, sufficient to pay
off the judgment with interest and costs."

The Circuit Court in overruling the demurrer considered,
of course, that the provision in italic letters in the abovequoted section 3275 authorized a levy sufficient to pay the
judgment.

Oct. 1873.]

SUPERVISORS V. UNITED STATES.

75

Argument for the mandamus.

Mr. Isaac Cook, for the plaintfifs in error:
The Supreme Court of Iowa has held uniformly that section 8275 does not invest corporations with the power to levy
taxes. That court holds that this section directs duties to
be performed by the taxing officers, under powers given
elsewhere in the statute, but does not extend their powers
beyond the limits prescribed in other parts of the statutes,
where the power to levy taxes is expressly given, and the
limit fixed beyond which taxes cannot be levied. The de.
cisions of that court on this subject have been uniform, and
extend through a term of about ten years. This was the
point adjudged in Clark, Dodge & Co. v. The City of Davenport,* decided in 1863; and in The Iowa Railroad Land Cornpanp v. Sac County and Duffy, and in the case of the Same
Plaintif v. Sac County and Hobbs, decided in 1873, and not
yet officially reported.
In addition to the decisions of the Supreme Court of
Iowa above cited, attention must be called to the fact, of
which this court will take judicial cognizance, that the legislature by a code of 1873,t has re-enacted in the same language the material parts of section 3275 of the revision of
1860. The legislature has thus adopted the construction
given to that statute by the Supreme Court. The re-enactment of a previous statute operates as a legislative adoption
of the judicial constructionf of such statute. It is, therefore, as fully settled as legislative enactments and judicial
determination can settle anything, that by the laws of Iowa,
a special tax cannot be levied to pay a judgment against a
county rendered upon ordinary county warrants. And that
when the board of supervisors have levied an ordinary
county tax of four mills on the dollar, they have levied the
greatest tax which they have the power to levy for the payment of such judgment.
The construction given to a statute of a State by the
highest judicial tribunal of such State, is regarded as a part
* 14 Iowa, 494.

t Section 8049.

SUPERVISORS

V. UNITED

STATES.

[Sup. Ct

Argument against the mandamus.

of the statute, and is as binding upon the courts of the
United States as the text.*
Mr. James Grant, contra:
We are aware of the construction put by the Supreme
Court of the State of Iowa upon section 3275. But with
that construction full before it, this court, in Butz v. City of
Iuscatine,t has put an exactly opposite construction on it.
:Speaking by SWAYNE, J., this court there said that "the
limitation . . . touching the power of taxation by the city

council, applies to the ordinary course of their municipal
action ...
"But when a judgment has been recovered, the case is within
-the regulation of the code. .

.

. The extent of the necessity is

the only limitation expressed or implied in the code, of'the
amount to be levied."
The learned justice still speaking for the court says, in
words which apply directly to the present case:
"If these views be not correct the position of the judgment
,creditor is a singular one. All the corporate property of' the
-debtoris exempt by law from execution. The tax of 1 per cent.
is all absorbed by the current expenses of the debtor. There
is neither a surplus nor the prospect of a surplus, which can be
applied upon the judgment. The resources of the debtor may
be ample, but there is no means 6f coercion .... The judgment
though solemnly rendered is as barren of results as if it had no
,existence .... Nothing less than the most cogent considerations

-could bring us to the conclusion that it was the intention of the
law-making power of so enlightened a State, to produce by its
-action such a condition of things in its jurisprudence."
After such language as this, it is no answer to us to say
that the case of Butz v. City of Muscatine differed in some
,minor points of fact or date from this case.
So in respect to the obligation of this court to follow the
* Leflingwell v. Warren, 2 Black, 699; Christy v. Pridgeon, 4 Wallace,

t 8 Wallace, 575.

Oct. 1873.]

SUPERVISORS V. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the court.

decisions of the Supreme Court of Iowa, "more or less adverse" to the views above expressed, the learned justice
continues:
"Entertaining the highest respect for those by whom they

were made, we have yet been unable to concur in the conclusions which they announce. It is alike the duty of that court
and of this to decide the questions involved in this class of
cases as in all others when presented for decision. This duty
carries with it investigation, reflection, and the exercise of judgment. It cannot be peribrmed on our part by blindly following
in the footsteps of others and substituting their judgment for
our own. Were we to accept such a solution we should abdicate
the performance of a solemn duty, betray a sacred trust committed to our charge, and defeat the wise and provident policy
of the Constitution which called this court into existence."
This court accordingly-disregarding the construction put
upon the Code of Iowa by the Supreme Court of that Statereversed a judgment which refused a mandamus, and ordered a contrary judgment.
Mr. Justice STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
It is very plain that a mandamus will not be awarded to
compel county officers of a State to do any act which they
are not authorized to do by the laws of the State from
which they derive their powers. Such officers are the
creatures of the statute law, brought into existence for public purposes, and having no authority beyond that conferred
upon them by the author of their being. And it may be
observed that the office of a writ of mandamus is not to
create duties, but to compel the discharge of those already
existing. A relator must always have a clear right to the
performance of a duty resting on the defendant before the
writ can be invoked. Is it, then, the duty of the board of
supervisors of a county in the State of Iowa to levy a special
tax, in addition to a county tax of four mills upon the dollar,
to satisfy a judgment recovered against the county for its
ordinary indebtedness? The question can be answered only
by reference to the statutes of the State.

SUPERVISORS V.

UNITED

[Sup. Ct.

STATES.

Opinion of the court.

By an act of the legislature enacted on the 22d of March,
1860,* it was declared that in each organized county of the
State there should be a board of supervisors, the duties of
which were defined. Prior to that time the financial affairs
of the several counties had been, by the law, committed to
the charge of a county judge. But on the 2d of April,
1860, a further act was passed, to take effect on the first day
of January, 1861, which enacted that all laws in force at the
time of its taking effect, devolving any jurisdiction or powers
on county judges, should be held to apply to and devolve
such jurisdiction upon the county board of supervisors, in
the same manner and to the same extent as though the
words "county board of supervisors" occurred in said laws
instead of the words "county judge."t Whatever power,
therefore, the county judge possessed prior to that enactment to levy taxes for any purpose, was devolved upon the
county board, with all its limitations. They may levy those
taxes which be was empowered to levy, and no more, unless
larger authority has, by other statutes, been given to them.
By the act of April 3d, 1860 (Civil Code, section 710), they
are required to levy the following taxes annually upon the
assessed value of the taxable property in the county: 1st.
For State revenue one and one-half mills on a dollar when
no rate is directed by the census board, and that board is
prohibited from directing a rate greater than two mills on a
dollar. 2d. For ordinary county revenue, including the
support of the poor, not more than four mills on a dollar,
and a poll tax of fifty cents. 3d. For support of schools not
less than one and not more than two mills on a dollar. And,
4th, for making and repairing bridges not more than one
mill on the dollar, whenever they shall deem it necessary.
This act confers all the powers which the county board possess to levy a tax for ordinary county revenue. It is not
claimed that larger authority was ever given. And this, it
is to be observed, is expressly limited to the levy of a tax
of not more than four mills upon the dollar.
*Civil Code of 1860,

302, et seg.

t 1b.

380.

Oct. 1873.]

SUPERVISORS V.

UNITED STATES.

79

Opinion of the court.

The board, however, have authority, in certain specified
cases, to levy a special tax to defray certain extraordinary
expenditures. Succeeding, as they did, to the powers and
duties of the county judge, whatever he was authorized to
do in this behalf they may do. He had been empowered
by section 250 of the code to submit to the people of the
county at any regular election, or at a special one called for
that purpose, the questions whether money might be borrowed to aid in the erection of public buildings; whether
the county would construct, or aid to construct, any road or
bridge which might call for an extraordinary expenditure;
whether stock should be permitted to run at large, and, generally, any question of local or police regulation not inconsistent with the laws of the State. He was also empowered,
whenever the warrants of the county were depreciated in
Value, to submit the question whether a tax of a higher rate
than that provided by law should be levied, and the 252d
section enacted that when a question so submitted involved
the borrowing or expenditure of money, the submission of
the question should be accompanied by a provision to lay a
tax for the payment thereof, in addition to the usual tax,
-and that no vote approving the borrowing or expenditure
should be of any effect unless the tax was also adopted.
Thus it appears that the statutes of the State have made
provision for ordinary county taxes, limiting them to a rate
not exceeding four mills, and, also, for special taxes beyond
that limit, in certain defined contingencies. No statute was
in existence when this writ was sued out authorizing the
,county board to levy a special tax for ordinary revenue, or
for ordinary expenditure, or, indeed, for any purpose except
those we have noticed, unless it be found in section 3275 of
the code, to which we shall presently refer. And the legislature of the State has made a clear distinction between
-ordinary county taxation, which the board of county supervisors may, at their discretion, levy within prescribed limits,
.and special taxation for extraordinary emergencies, which
:can only be imposed in obedience to a popular vote.
In this case the warrants upon which the relator's judg.

SUPERVISORS V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct_

Opinion of the court.

ment was obtained were all ordinary warrants, drawn upon
the treasurer of the county, and, as is admitted by the demurrer, drawn for the ordinary expenses of the county.
None of them were issued in pursuance of a popular vote,
or for any extraordinary expenditure. They were such instruments as the legislature contemplated might be employed in conducting the current and usual business of the
county. The act which empowers the county board to levy
a tax for ordinary county revenue speaks of them and evidently intends that they shall be satisfied, either from the.
proceeds of that tax, or by their being received in payment
thereof. They are simply a means of anticipating ordinary
revenue.
But it has been argued on behalf of the relator, that seetion 8275 of the code confers upon the county board the
power, and makes it their duty to levy a special tax beyond
the tax authorized by section 710,,whenever a judgment has,
been recovered against the county, even though thatjudgrnent may be for ordinary county indebtedness. That section is found in a statute relating to executions, and it is as.
follows: " In case no property is found upon which to levy,,
which is not exempted by the last section (section 3274), or
if the judgment creditor elect not to issue execution against
such corporation (a municipal one), he is entitled to the
amount of his judgment and costs in the ordinary evidences
of indebtedness issued by that corporation. And if the.
debtor corporation issues no scrip or evidences of debt, a
tax must be levied as early as practicable, sufficient to pay
off the judgment with interest and costs." The next preceding section had enacted that public buildings owned by
the State or any municipal corporation, and any other publicproperty necessary and proper for carrying out the general!
purpose for which any such corporation is organized, should
be exempt from execution; and that the property of a private.
citizen should in no case be levied upon to pay the debt of
such a corporation. Neither of these sections declares that
a ,)pecial tax shall, or may be levied to pay any judgment
against a municipal body. All that is said is, that in certain,

Pet. 1873.]

SUPERVISORS ?). UNITED STATES.

81

Opinion of the court,

3ontingencies, a tax must be levied sufficient to pay off the
judgment. But whether this tax is to be a special one, or
the tax authority to levy which was given to the county
board by the 710th section, the act does not say. It is certainly remarkable, that if it was intended to grant a new
power to levy a tax for the payment of ordinary county indebtedness, when that indebtedness has been brought to
judgment, the power should be granted in a statute relating
solely to executions, without any direction by whom it should
be exercised, and that the additional grant should be left to
inference, instead of being plainly expressed. The powers
committed to the county board were declared in the statutes
relating to it and to its duties. If others were intended to
be given, it is strange, to say the least, that the gift was not
made when the legislature had the subject of the board and
its powers under consideration. And if a special tax to pay
a judgment was contemplated, it is hard to see why it was
not provided for when the legislature had the subject of
ipecial county taxes before it, and when provision was made
for levying such a tax to pay depreciated county warrants,
if approved by a popular vote. We do not propose, however,
to discuss the question now. It has already been answered,
and we must accept the answer. The Supreme Court of
Iowa has decided in several cases that section 3275 confers
no independent power to levy a specific tax in order to pay
a judgment recovered against a municipal corporation, and
'hat when the power has not otherwise been conferred, it is
-ot given by that act. This was decided in 1863, in the case
of Clark, Dodge & Co. v. The City of Davenport,* before any
of the warrants were issued upon which the relator's judgment was founded, and the construction then given to the
statute has been repeatedly asserted and consistently maintained. It is, therefore, and it always has been the settled
law of the State. That the construction of the statutes of a
State by its highest courts, is to be regarded as determining
their meaning and generally as binding upon United Statep
14 Iowa, 494
VOL. XVIII.

SUPERVISORS

V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct,

Opinion of the court.

courts, cannot be questioned. It has been asserted by us
too often to admit of further debate.* We have even held
that when the construction of a State law has been settled
by a series of decisions of the highest State court, differently
from that given to the statute by an earlier decision of this
court, the construction given by the State courts will be
adopted by us.t And we adopt the construction of a State
statute settled in the courts of the State, though it may not
accord with our opinion.t There is every reason for this in
the consideration of statutes defining the duties of State officers. It is true, that when we have been called upon to consider contracts resting upon State statutes, contracts valid at
the time when they were made according to the decisions
of the highest courts of the State, contracts entered into on
the faith of those decisions, we have declinted to follow later
State court decisions declaring their invalidity. But in
other cases we have held ourselves bound to accept the construction given by the courts of the States to their own
statutes.
It is insisted, however, that in Butz v. The City of Muscatine,ยง this court ruled that section 3275 of the code did give
power to the city councils of Muscatine to levy a special tax
beyond the statutory limit of ordinary city taxation, sufficient
to pay a judgment which had been recovered against the
city. * This is true. But the facts of that case must be considered. The judgment had been recovered upon bonds
issued by the city in 1854. At the time they were issued
no decision had been made by the Supreme Court of the
State to the effect that section 3275 was not an enabling
statute authorizing a tax beyond that allowed by other statutes. It was not until nine years afterwards that the Supreme Court of the State was called upon to determine its
meaning. Hence this court felt at liberty to adopt its own
* See numerous cases, Brightly's Federal Digest, 163.

t Green v. Neal's Lessee, 6 Peters, 291 ; Suydam v. Williamson, z4 now.
ard, 427; Leffingwell v. Warren, 2 Black, 699.
8 Wallace, 576.
1 McKeen v. Delaney, 6 Cranch, 22.

Oct. 1873.]

SUPERVISORS V.

UNITED

STATES.

83

Opinion of the court.

construction and apply it to the case of the holder of the
bonds, though it was adverse to that announced by the State
court years after the bonds had been issued. But at the
same time it was said, "if the construction given to the
statute by the State court had preceded the issuing of the
bonds, and become the settied law of the State before that
time, the case would have presented a different aspect."
In the case we have now in hand, it appears that the warrants upon which the relator recovered his judgment, not
only were for the ordinary indebtedness of the county, but
that they were issued after it had become the settled law of
the State, announced in the decisions of its highest court,
that the section of the statute relative to executions, now
under consideration, did not enlarge the authority of a county
board of supervisors, and did not authorize the levy of a tax
beyond that provided for in section 710; that is, a tax in excess of the rate of four mills on the dollar. The holders of
the warrants were, therefore, informed when they took them,
that by the laws of the State no special tax could be levied
for their payment, unless the question whether such a tax
might be laid should first be submitted to the people and by
them answered in the affirmative, according to the directions
of sections 250 and 252, to which reference has heretofore
been made. In this particular the case differs from Butz v.
The C(ily of MAscatine. Looking at the difference, we think
there is no sufficient reason why we should now depart from
the construction which the courts of the State have uniformly
given to its statutes.
It follows that, in our judgment, the return to the alternative mandamus was a sufficient return, that the respondents
had no power to levy the special tax called for, and as a writ
of mandamus can compel the performance only of some act
which the law authorizes, that the demurrer to the return
should not have been sustained.
Judgment reversed, and the record remitted with directions to give judgment on the demurrer
FOR

THE DEFENDANTS

BELOW.

STUART V. UNITED STATES.

84

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

Mr. Justice CLIFFORD, with whom concurred Mr. Justice SWAYNE, dissenting:
I dissent from the judgment of the court in this case,
holding that this court should adhere to its former decision,
as it appears that the State statute when the bonds in that
case were issued had not been construed by the State court.
Where the construction of a State statute is involved in a
case presented here for decision, and it appears that the
statute in question has not been construed by the State
court, I hold that it is the duty of this court to ascertain and
determine what is its true construction, and that this court,
under such circumstances, will not reverse its decision in
the same or a subsequent case, even though the State court
may afterwards give a different construction to the same
statute.

STUART

V. UNITED STATES.

1. A contractor with the government to transport from post to post, remote
from any seat of war, stores and supplies not forming any portion of
the stores or supplies of an advancing or retreating army, is not a person "in the military service of the United States" within the second
section of the act of March 3d, 1849, " to provide for the payment of
horses and other property lost" in that service.
2. A petition which represents that a party transporting, &c., was "attacked
by a band of hostile Indians," who, without any fault of the party trans-

porting or his agents, captured certain oxen part of the property in
transit, which had never been recovered, is not sufficiently full and specific to answer the requirement of the said section, which provides compensation for "damage sustained by the capture or destruction by an
enemy.)"

from the Court of Claims; the case being thus:
An act of March 3d, 1849,* entitled "An act to provide
for the payment of horses and other property lost or destroyed in the military service of the United States," makes
provision, in its first section, for payment for horses killed
APPEAL

9 Stat. at Large, 414.

