JONES V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup Ct.

Statement of the case.

JONES ET AL. V. UNITED STATES.
Oz- a suit by the government against the sureties of a postmaster on his official bond, it is no defence that the government, "through their agent,
the Auditor of the Treasury of the Post Office Department, had full
notice of the defalcation and embezzlement of funds of the plaintiff before them, and yet neglectfully permitted the said postmaster to remain
in office, whereby he was enabled to commit all the default and embezzlement, " &c.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Southern District of
Georgia.
Jones, Ramsay, and Lauterman, as sureties for one Quillian, were sued by the United States on a bond executed on
13th June, 1867, conditioned that the said Quillian should
faithfully discharge the duties of postmaster at Milledgeville, Georgia, and "faithfully, once in three months, or
oftener, if thereto required, render account of his receipts
and expenditures, and pay the balance of all moneys that
shall come to his hands, and keep safely all the public money
collected by him."
To the default under this bond the defendants put in the
plea:
"That as to any default of the said Quillian, their principal
in said bond in the declaration mentioned as postmaster aforesaid, within two years before the commencement of this action,
they are not liable in law therefor, but have been and are fully
discharged and released, by the acts and conduct of the plaintiff, through their agent, the Auditor of the Treasury of the
Post Office Department, of the said plaintiff, who had full notice
of the defalcation and embezzlement of funds of the plaintiff
before them; and yet neglectfully permitted said Quillian to remain in office as such postmaster, whereby he was enabled to
commit all the default and embezzlement aforesaid, within two
years before the commencement of this action."
To this plea (a plea of the Statute of Limitations having
been withdrawn) the plaintiff demurred, and his demurrer
was sustained.

Oct. 1873.]

JONES V.

UNITED STATES.

663

Opinion of the court.

The overruling of the plea, and sustaining the demurrer,
was now assigned for error.
Mr. P. Phillips, for the plaintiff in error:
Assuming that the government is subject to the same
occulegal obligation as would be imposed on an individual
recover.
to
allowed
be
to
pying the like position, it ought not
by
If A. becomes liable for the faithful discharge of duties
of
B.. as clerk for C., and it should come to the knowledge
C., that B. had embezzled his funds, but notwithstanding C.
continues him in his employment, it would be a fraud on
A., ignorant of this embezzlement, to hold him responsible
for any subsequent act of dishonesty. So we say, in this
case, that the knowledge of the government that Quillian
had embezzled its funds, should have caused his immediate
dismissal. This would have terminated the liability of his
sureties, and limited it to the amount then due. But when
the government chooses to continue in office an officer
known to have committed such an act, it takes upon itself
the trust of his future honesty.
Mr. S. F. Phillips, Solicitor-General, contra.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court,
to the effect that it was quite evident that the facts pleaded
did not constitute any defence to the action, and that such
being the settled law of the court it was not necessary to
enter into any discussion of the question.*
JUDGMENT

AFFIRMED.

of the United States
United States v. Vanzandt, 11 Wheaton, 184; Bank

I Pe.
v. Dandridge et al., 12 Id. 64; Dox et al. v. The Postmaster-General,
187
Id.
16
al.,
et
Boyd
v.
States
ters, 318; United

