UNIVERSITY v. FINCH.

[Sup. Ct,

Statement of the case.

And, so far as the operation ot the statutes of limitation in
the several States is concerned, to determine the period,
which must be deducted fbr the pendency of the war from
the limitation prescribed, it was held in the same case that
the war continued until proclamation was in like manner
officially made of its close. This is the extent of the decisions of this court.*
It is well known that before such official proclamation was
made courts of the United States were held in the several,
States which had been engaged in the rebellion, and their
jurisdiction to hear and determine the cases brought in
them, as well before as after such proclamation, is not open
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.
to controversy.
[See the next case.]

UNIVERSITY

V.

FINCH.

1. A sale of real estate made under a power contained in a deed of trust exe-

cuted before the late civil war is valid, notwithstanding the grantors in
the deed, which was made to secure the payment of promissory notes,
were citizens and residents of one of the States declared to be in insurrection at the time of the sale, made while the war was flagrant.
2. This court has never gone further in protecting the property of citizens

residing in such insurrectionary States from judicial sale than to declare
that where such citizen has been driven from his home by a special military order, and forbidden to return, judicial proceedings against him
were void.

8. The property of such citizens found in a loyal State is liable to seizure
and sale for debts contracted before the outbreak of the war, as in the

case of other non-residents.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court fbr the District of Missouri; the case being thus:
Daily and Chambers purchased of Elliott, in March, 1860,
certain real estate in St. Louis, Missouri. For the principal
part of the purchase-money they gave him their promissory
* Brown v. Hiatts, 15 Wallace, 184; Adger v. Alston, Lb. 560.

Oct. 1873.]

UNIVERSITY

v. FINCH.

Argument against the validity of the sale.

notes, and to secure the payment of these notes they made a
deed of trust to one Ranlett, conveying the property thus
purchased, with authority to sell it, on giving notice in a
newspaper of the sale, in satisfaction of these notes if they
were not paid as they fell due.
The notes were assigned by Elliott to the Washington
University, and the money being unpaid and due, the real
estate so conveyed was sold by Ranlett in accordance with,
the terms of the trust deed, to the University, on the 9th
day of December, 1862. The trustee made to the University,
which was a corporate body,'a deed for the land, and the
University afterwards sold it for value to one Kimball.
Daily and Chambers were both citizens of the State of
Virginia, residing in the county of Mecklenburg, when they
bought the land of Elliott, and have resided there ever since.
Daily having been declared a bankrupt, and one Finch having been appointed his assignee, Finch, along with Chambers, the other purchaser, filed a bill on the chancery side
of the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
Missouri to have the sale decreed void, and to have the proceeds of the sale of the land by the University to Kimball
declared a trust fund for their use; and the court decreed
accordingly. The ground of this decree was that the sale by
the trustees took place during the late civil war, and that
Daily and Chambers were citizens of the State of Virginia,
resident within that part of the State declared by the President to be in a state of insurrection. From the decree thus
made the present appeal was taken.

Mr. W. H. Letcher, in support of the decree, citing Hanger v.
Abbott,* and Dean v. Nelson,t argued that inasmuch as all
commercial intercourse was forbidden between the people
of the loyal States and those residing in the insurrectionary
districts, both by virtue of the act of Congress and by the
principles applicable to nations in a state of war, all processes for the collection of debts were suspended, and that the
* 6 Wallace, 532.

t 10 Id. 158.

UNIVERSITY v. FINCH.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

,complainants being forbidden by these principles to pay the
,debt, there could be no valid sale of the land for default of
;such payment. He also argued that the power iii the deed
to sell, which required a notice in a newspaper of the sale,
was intended to apprise the complainants of the time and
,place of sale; and that inasmuch as it was impossible for
,such notice to reach them, situated as they were, no valid
,sale could be made.
Mr. J. M. Krum, contra, for the appellant.
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
The case before us was not one of a sale by judicial pro'ceeding. No aid of a court was needed or called for. It
was purely the case of the execution of a power by a person
in whom a trust had been reposed in regard to real estate,
the land, the trustee, and the cestui que trust all being, as they
had always been, within a State whose citizens were loyally
-supporting the nation in its struggle with its enemies. The
,conveyance by the complainants to Ranlett vested in him
the legal title of the land, unless there was a statute of the
.State of Missouri providing otherwise, and if there was such
a statute it still gave him full control over the title for the
purposes of the trust which he had assumed. No further
act on the part of the complainants was necessary to transfer
the title and full ownership of the property to a purchaser
under a sale by the trustee.
The debt was due and unpaid. The obligation which the
trustee had assumed on a condition, had become absolute
.by the presence of that condition. If the complainants had
both been dead, the sale would not have been void for that
reason, if made after the nine months during which a statute
of Missouri suspends the right to sell in such cases. If they
had been in Japan it would have been no legal reason for
delay. The power under which the sale was made was
irrevocable. The creditor had both a legal and moral right
to have the power made for his benefit executed. The enfor(,ed absence of the complainants, if it be conceded that it

Oct. 1873.]

UNIVERSITY V. FINCH.
Opinion of the court.

was enforced, does not in our judgment afford a sufficient
reason for arresting his agent and the agent of the creditor
in performing a duty which both of them imposed upon him.
before the war began. His power over the subject was perfect, the right of the holder of the note to have him exercise,
that power was perfect. Its exercise required no intercourse,,
commercial or otherwise, with the complainants. No military transaction would be interfered with by the sale. The.
enemy, instead of being strengthened, would have been
weakened by the process. The interest of the complainants
in the land might have been liable to confiscation by the.
government, yet we are told that this right of the creditor
could not be enforced, nor the power of the trustee lawfully
exercised. No authority in this country or any other is
shown to us for this proposition. It rests upon inference'
from the general doctrine of absolute non-intercourse between citizens of States which are in a state of public war
with each other, but no case has been cited of this kind even,
in such a war.
It is said that the power to sell in the deed of trust required a notice of the sale in a newspaper, that this notice,
was intended to apprise the complainants of the time and
place of sale, and that inasmuch as it was impossible for'
such notice to reach the complainants no sale could be made.
If this reasoning were sound, the grantors in such a deed,
need only go to a place where the newspaper could never
reach them to delay the sale indefinitely, or defeat it altogether. But the notice is not for the benefit of the grantor
in the sense of notice to him. It is only for his benefit by
giving notoriety and publicity of the time, the terms, and'
the place of sale, and of the property to be sold, that biddersmay be invited, competition encouraged, and a fair price,
obtained for the pr:operty. As to the grantor, he is presumed to know that he is in default and his property liableto sale at any time; and no notice to him is required.
But the authority of certain cases decided in this court is
relied on, in which the effect of the state of the late civil war,

UNIVERSITY V. FINCH.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

is considered, in judicial proceedings, between parties residing on different sides of what has been called the line separating the belligerents.
The first of these is that of Hanger v. Abbott. That case
laid down the proposition that when a citizen of a State adhering during that war to the national cause brought suit
afterwards against a citizen residing during the war within
the limits of an insurrectionary State, the period during
which the plaintiff was prevented from suing by the state of
hostilities should be deducted from the time necessary to
bar the action under the statute of limitations. It decided
nothing more than this. It did not even decide that a similar
rule was applicable in a suit brought by the latter against the
former. And it decided nothing in the question now before
us, even if the sale here had been under ajudicial proceeding.
Another case is that of Dean v. _Nelson. If the present had
been a sale under judicial order, that case would bear some
analogy to this, and some expressions in the opinion more
general than was intended may, as this court has already
said, tend to mislead. That case was a proceeding within
an insurrectionary district, but held by our military forces,
in a court established by military orders alone. It was a
proceeding to foreclose a mortgage on personal property,
and it was instituted against parties who had been expelled
by military force from their residence, and who were forbidden absolutely by the order which expelled them, and
which was addressed to them by name, from coining back
again within the lines of the military authority which organized the court. Inasmuch as, without their consent and
against their will, they were thus driven from their homes,
and forbidden to return by the arbitrary though probably
necessary act of the military power, we held that a judicial
decree by which their property was sold during the continuance in force of this order was void as to them. To that
doctrine we adhere, and have repeated it at this term in the
case of Lasere v. Rochereau.*
17 Wallace, 487.

Oct. 1873.]

UNIVERSITY

V.

FINCH,

Opinion of the court.

But this court has never decided nor intentionally given
expression to the idea that the property of citizens of the
rebel States, located in the loyal States, was, by the mere
existence of the war, exempted from judicial process for
debts due to citizens of the loyal States contracted before
the war. A proposition like this, which gives an immunity
to rebels against the government not accorded to the soldier
who is fighting for that government, in the very locality
where the other resides, must receive the gravest consideration and be supported by unquestioned weight of authority
befbre it receives our assent. Its tendency is to make the
very debts which the citizens of one section may owe to another an inducement to revolution and insurrection, and it
rewards the man who lifts his hands against his government
by protection to his property, which it would not otherwise
possess, if he can raise his effbrts to the dignity of a civil
war.
The case of Mc Veigh v. United States,* holds that an alien
enemy may be sued though he may not have a right to
bring suits in our courts. And that when he is sued he
has a right to appear and defend. " Whatever," says the
court, " may be the extent of the disability of an alien enemy
to sue in the courts of the hostile country, it is clear that he
is liable to be sued, and this carries with it the right to use
all the means and appliances of defence."
And this proposition is supported by the authorities there
cited as well as by sound reason. If such be the rule in regard to alien enemies in a war between independent states,
it should be quite as applicable, if not more so, between citizens of the same government who are only enemies in a
qualified sense in a civil war.t
We are of opinion that the sale by the trustee in the case
under consideration was a lawful and valid sale, and that the
bill of the complainants should have been dismissed. The
decree of the Circuit Court is, therefore, REVERSED, with
directions to
DISMISS THE BILL.
11 Wallace, 259.

t See Masterson v. Howard, supra, 99.

