Oct. 1873.]

SNOW V. UNITED STATES.'

Statement of the case.

itself, made after the passage of the Donation Act, or after
his assertion of claim under it. Nor do we decide whether
the interest in the wife's share of the land which came to
him by survivorship, would be affected by any contracts of
his or hers, made before her death at any time.
But we hold that as to the portion of the land which was
allotted to him by the surveyor-general, and the title of
which vests in his heirs by the act of 1836, without which
the patent would be void, his contract of sale made before
the Donation Act was passed, and while he was the owner
of the possessory interest before described, was a valid contract, intentionally protected by the Donation Act itself, and
binding on the title which comes to his heirs by reason of
his death.
These considerations dispose of the case before us, and
the decree of the Circuit Court is accordingly
AFFIRMED.

SNOW V. UNITED STATES.
Under the organic act of September 9th, 1850, organizing the Territory of
Utah, the attorney-general of the Territory, elected by the legislature
thereof, and not the district attorney of the United States, appointed
by the President, is entitled to prosecute persons accused of offences
against the laws of the Territory.
ERROR to the Supreme Court for the Territory of Utah;
the case being thus:
By the organic act, passed September 9th, 1850, establishing the Territory of Utah, it was enacted:
"SECTION 6. The legislative power shall extend to all rightful
subjects of legislation consistent with the Constitution of the
United States and the provisions of this act."
By the ninth section, the judicial power was vested in a
supreme court, district courts, probate courts, and justices
of the peace, whose jurisdiction was to be limited by law;

SNOW V.

UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

provided, that justices should not try land titles, nor cases
exceeding $100 in amount; and that the Supreme and District Courts should possess chancery as well as common-law
jurisdiction. Each District Court was invested with the
same jurisdiction in cases arising under the Constitution and
laws of the United States as is vested in the Circuit and
District Courts of the United States; and the first six days
in each term were appropriated to such cases.
Another section thus enacted:
"An attorney-general shall be elected by the joint vote of the
legislative assembly, whose term of office shall be one year, unless sooner removed by the legislative assembly, or until his
successor is elected and qualified. It shall be the duty of the
attorney-general to attend to all legal business on the part of
the Territory before the courts where the Territory is a party,
and prosecute individuals accused of crime, in the judicial district
in which he keeps his office, in cases arising under the laws of the
Territory, and such other duties as pertain to his office."
Another section provided for the election of district attorneys, whose duty it was made to " attend to legal business
before the courts in their respective districts where the Territory is a party, prosecute individuals accused of crimes in
cases arising under the laws of the Territory, and do such
other duties as pertain to their office."
Then, following all, was:
"SECTION 10. There shall be appointed an attorney for said
Territory, who shall continue in office for four years, unless
sooner removed by the President, and who shall receive the
same fees and salary as the attorney of the United States for the
present Territory of Oregon. There shall also be a marshal."

The marshal's duties were defined, being declared to be
to execute all process issuing from the courts constituted by
the act, when exercising their jurisdiction as Circuit and
District Courts of the United States. But about the duties
of the district attorney of the United States, to be appointed
as above mentioned, nothing at all was said.
In this state of things the legislative assembly, by joint

40ct. 1873.]

SNOW V. UNITED STATES.

Opinion of the court.

,vote, on the 19th of January, 1869, elected Zerubbabel Snow,
"attorney-general of the Territory," and on the 3d of April,
1870, the President of the United States appointed C. H.
Hempstead, to be "the attorney of the United States" for
the same Territory.
Hereupon, Mr. Snow having undertaken to prosecute in
one of the District Courts of the Territory certain offenders " against the laws of said Territory," a quo warranto was
issued by the United States on the relation of Mr. Hempstead against him ; the purpose of the writ being to have it
judicially settled which of the two persons,-whether the
attorney of the United States for the said Territory, appointed by the President, or " the attorney-general of the
Territory," elected by its legislature,-was entitled to prose-cute in Utah persons accused of offences against the laws of
the Territory.
The Supreme Court of the Territory, assuming that the
Supreme Court and the District Courts of Utah were courts
of the United States, were of the opinion that the attorney
of the United States was the proper person; and adjudged
accordingly.
The attorney-general of Utah thereupon brought the case
here.
Messrs. C. J. Hillyer and T. Fitch, on his behalf, referred to
(Clinton v. Englebrecht,* in which this court decided that the
Supreme Court and the District Courts of the Territory
were not courts of the United States, but legislative courts
of the Territory. The base, therefore, on which the Supreme
Court of the Territory rested its judgment being removed,
the judgment, they argued, fell also.
Mr. G. H. Williams, Attorney-General, and Mr. C. H. Hill,
Assistant Attorney-General, contra, submitted the case.
Mr. Justice BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
The government of the Territories of the United States
* 18 Wallace, 434.

SNOW

V.

UNITED

STATES.

[Sup. Ct..

Opinion of the court.

belongs, primarily, to Congress; and secondarily, to such
agencies as Congress may establish for that purpose. During the term of their pupilage as Territories, they are mere,
dependencies of the United States. Their people do not
constitute a sovereign power. All political authority exercised therein is derived from the General Government.
It is, indeed, the practice of the government to invest:
these dependencies with a limited power of self-government
as soon as they have sufficient population for the purpose..
The extent of the power thus granted depends entirely upon,
the organic act of Congress in each case, and is at all times,
subject to such alterations as Congress may see fit to adopt.
The organic act establishing the Territorial government
of Utah constituted a governor, a legislative assembly, and'
certain courts, and judicial and executive officers. Amongst,
the latter are an attorney for the Territory and a marshal.
By the sixth section of the act, it is enacted that the legislative power shall extend to all rightful subjects of legislation consistent with the Constitution of the United Statesand the provisions of that act. By the ninth section, it is
enacted that the judicial power shall be vested in a supreme
court, district courts, probate courts, and justices of thepeace, whose jurisdiction shall be limited by law; provided,.
that justices shall not try land titles, nor cases exceeding onehundred dollars in amount; and that the supreme and dis.
trict courts shall possess chancery as well as common-law
jurisdiction; and each of the district courts is invested with,
the same jurisdiction in cases arising under the Constitutiont
and laws of the United States as is vested in the circuit and
district courts of the United States; and the first six days.
in each term are appropriated to such cases.
The duties of the attorney are not specified in the act.
The marshal is required to execute all processes issuing
from said courts when exercising their jurisdiction as circuit and district courts of the United States.
This recital shows that the business of these courts, when,
acting as circuit and district courts of the United States,
is to be kept distinct from their business as ordinary courts,

0OA. 18"73.1

SNOW

V. UNITED STATES.

Opinion of the court.

of the Territory; and gives countenance to the idea upon
which the Territorial legislature seems to have acted in appointing separate executive officers for attending the courts
when sitting as Territorial courts. By an act of that legislature, passed March 3d, 1852, it is, amongst other things,
provided that an attorney-general shall be elected by the
legislative assembly to attend to all legal business on the
part of the Territory before the courts where the Territory
is a party, and to prosecute individuals accused of crime in
the judicial district in which he shall keep his office, in cases
arising under the laws of the Territory; and that for the
other districts, district attorneys shall be elected in like
manner with like duties. This law, it is understood, has
always been acted upon until the recent decision of the Supreme Court of Utah, denying its validity. Similar laws
have been passed and acted upon in other Territories, organized under similar organic acts. The attorney appointed
by the President for the Territory has been accust6med to
attcnd to the business of the General Government, the same
as is done by United States district attorneys in the several
States; and the attorney-general and district attorneys of
the Territory have attended to the business of the latter,
and prosecuted crimes committed against the Territorial
laws.
It must be confessed that this practice exhibits somewhat
of an anomaly. Strictly speaking, there is no sovereignty
in a Territory of the United States but that of the United
States itself. Crimes committed therein are committed
against the government and dignity of the United States.
It would seem that indictments and writs should regularly
be in the name of the United States, and that the attorney
of the United States was the proper officer to prosecute all
offences. But the practice has been otherwise, not only in
Utah, but in other Territories organized upon the same
type. The question is whether this practice is legal; or, in
other words, whether the act of the Territorial legislature
was authorized by the organic act. If it was, the plaintiff
in error in this case was erroneously ousted from perform.
VOL.

XVIII.

21

WESTRAY V.

UNITED STATES.

[Sup. or.

Syllabus.

ing the duties of his office of attorney-general of the Territory.
The power given to the legislature is extremely broad.
It extends to all rightful subjects of legislation consistent
with the Constitution and the organic act itself. And there
seems to be nothing in either of these instruments which
directly conflicts with the Territorial law. If there is any
inconsistency at all, it is in that part of the organic act which
provides for the appointment by the President of an attorney
for the Territory. But is that necessarily an inconsistency?
The proper business of that attorney may be regarded as
relating to cases in which the government of the United
'States is concerned. The analogous case of the marshal,
and the separation of the business of the courts as to Govern.
ment and Territorial cases, seem to give some countenance
to this idea. At all events, it has sufficient basis for its
support to establish the conclusion that there is no necessary
conflict between the organic and the Territorial laws. The
"organic act is susceptible of a construction that will avoid
such conflict. And that construction is supported by long
usage in this and other Territories. Under these circumstances it is the duty of the court to adopt it, and to declare
the Territorial act valid. In any event, no great inconvenience can arise, because the entire matter is subject to
the control and regulation of Congress.
JUDGMENT REVERSED.

WESTRAY V.

UNITED STATES.

1. Under the "act to increase duties on imports," &c., passed June 30th,
1864, the collector is under no obligation to give notice to the importer
of his liquidation of duties on merchandise imported. The importer
who makes the entries is under obligation himself, if he wishes to appeal from it, to take notice of the collector's settlement of them.

2. The right of the importer to complain or appeal begins with the date of
the liquidation whenever that is made.

