0ct. 1873.]

GRANT

V.

STRONG.

Statement of the case.

GRANT V. OTRONG.
A builder's lien held not to have attached where a builder took a real
security for payment of the work which he was to do, and afterwards,
the work being all done, gave it up and took a mere note.
APPEAL from the Supreme Court of the District of Co.
lumbia.
Strong filed a bill in equity in the court below against
Grant to establish a mechanic's lien for the sum of $1547.
There was no denial that work was done, nor that it was of
the value alleged, nor that it was of that character for which
liens are allowed by the laws of the District.
The question was whether, under all the circumstances of
the case, such a lien ever attached.
The material facts were these:
On the 14th day of October, 1869, the parties jmade an
agreement that Strong should do the brickwork on sixteen
houses which Grant was building. The price of the work
per thousand bricks was agreed upon, and that Strong should
take one of the houses in payment for his work, the price of
which was also fixed; and this contract was reduced to writing. A conveyance was made by Grant of the lot which
Strong was to have, and the deed duly acknowledged and
recorded and placed in the hands of Enoch Totten, as an
escrow, to be delivered to Strong when the work was completed. During the progress of the work dissatisfaction
arose between the parties after the larger part of it had been
done, and on the 27th of November, a new written contract
was made. This, after reciting the former agreement, says
that it is agreed that Strong shall finish all the brickwork
up to the first floor joists without delay. The price was
,changed, but the old agreement was referred to for the mode
of measurement. It is then said that the same is to be paid
for in Grant's negotiable note, payable within three months
from the date of the completion of the work, and then the
agreement of October 14th shall be cancelled and declared

GRANT

V. STRONG.

[Sup. Ct.,

Opinion of the court.

null and void, and of no effect, and the escrow in the hand
of Totten be delivered up to Grant, otherwise said agree.
ment to remain in full force and effect.
Another paper, signed by both parties, dated January 1st,
1870, recites the former agreements, and that the work had
been finished and measured, and that Grant had given his
promissory note for the amount, according to the contract
of November 27th; and that, therefore, the escrow in Totten's hands is declared null and void, and is to be delivered
to Grant by Totten.
A good deal of evidence was found in the record as to,
what was said and done by the parties in the matter, and the
court below decreed that a lien existed. From that decree
this appeal was taken.
Messrs. W. A. Meloy and F. Miller,for the appellant, referred'
to Barrows v. Baughrnan,* Haley v. Prosser,t and numerous
other cases, to show that a builder's lien cannot exist where
the agreement provides for another sort of security.
Mr. W. A. Cook, contra, cited The Kim ball,t and many
cases, arguing from them, and on principle, that a lien is
never extinguished by a mere note, except on the plainest
evidence of an intention to extinguish it; but on the contrary, when a lien clearly exists, that a note is always regarded as but cumulative.
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
We have much argument in the case as to the effect of the
note as a negotiable security operating as a release of the
mechanic's lien. We think this has but little pertinency top
the case. We admit that when a lien has once attached, the
taking of such a note does not of itself operate as a release.
The question whether a lien is obtained, or is displaced when,
it once attaches, is largely a matter of intention to be inferred from the acts of the parties and all the surrounding
9 Michigan, 218.

t" 8 Watts & Sergeant, 188.

8 Wallace, 87

Oct. 1873.1

GRANT V. STRONG.

625

Opinion of the court.

circumstances. In the case before us, much conflicting testimony as to what was said and done by the parties, is fbund
in the record. We need not consider this, for in our view
the decision of the case must rest on the written agreements
we have mentioned, and from them we are forced to the con.
elusion that the appellee always relied wholly upon other
security than a mechanic's lien for his pay, which he deemed
sufficient, and which he voluntarily agreed to surrender.
It is very clear that under the first contract, the one under
which the larger part of the work was done, he was to take
his pay, not in money, but in the jot on which one of the
houses was built; and that to secure the completion by Grant
of the sale when the work was done, the deed was made and
placed in the hands of Totten. Under these circumstances
no lien could accrue for the work on that, or on the other
buildings. When the second contract of November 27th
was made, Strong did not give up this security, but still retained and relied on it, and it was made a part of the new
contract, that the escrow should remain in the hands of
Totten, and should be in full force until the work was completed, measured, and the sum due on it paid by the promissory note of Grant. Now with this security in Totten's
hands during all the time the work was going on, looked to
and relied upon by Strong, how can it be said that Strong
relied upon a mechanic's lien, or that Grant intended in addition to that deed for one lot to allow Strong to obtain a
lien upon all the others? And so much reliance was placed
on this escrow by Strong, that only after all was settled, the
work measured and paid for, as the parties had stipulated
by Grant's note, did Strong sign the order for the delivery
to Grant of the deed. During this time all the facts repel
the idea of a lien.
We do not think that the giving up of the escrow, and
the taking of the note in its place, according to the terms of
an agreement previously made, and which obviously did not
look to a mechanic's lien as part of the transaction, would
create a lien where none existed before.
In short, we are of opinion that these agreements show an
46
VOL. XVII.

DAVENPORT

v. Dows.

[Sup. Ot.

Statement of the case.

acceptance and reliance by Strong on another and very different security for the payment for his work, inconsistent
with the idea of a mechanic's lien, and that no such lien
ever attached in the case.
DECREE REVERSED, with directions to
DISMISS THE BILL.

Mr. Justice SWAYNE dissenting.

DAVENPORT

v. Dows.

Although a stockholder in a corporation may bring a suit when the corporation refuses, yet, as in such case the suit can be maintained only on the
ground that the rights of the corporation are involved, the corporation
should be made a party to the suit, and a demurrer will lie if it is not
so made.

from the Circuit Court for the District of Iowa.
Dows, a citizen of New York, in behalf of himself and all
other non-resident citizens of Iowa, who were stockholders
in the Chicago, Rock Island, and Pacific Railroad Company,
filed a bill in the court below against the city of Davenport,
and its marshal, to arrest the collection of a tax, alleged to
be illegal, levied by the said city for general revenue purposes, on the property of the company within its limits.
The bill assigned as a reason for its being filed by Dows, a
stockholder in the company, instead of by the company itself,
that the company neglected and refused to take action on the
subject. A demurrer was interposed to the bill, which was
overruled, and on the defendants refusing to answer over,
the Circ-iit Court ordered that the collection of the tax be
perpetually enjoined. From this, its action, the defendants
appealed, insisting that the Circuit Court erred in overruling
the demurrer, for three reasons:
First. Because the railroad company was not made a party
to the bill.
APPEAL

