COOK v.

TULLIS.

[Sup. CtL

Statement of the case.

COOK V. TULLIS.
t. The ratification by one of the unauthorized act of another operates upon
the act ratified precisely as though authority to do the act had been
previously given, except where the rights of third parties have intervened between the act and the ratification. The retroactive efficacy of
the ratification is only subject to this qualification, that intervening
rights of third persons are not defeated by the ratification.
2. An exchange of values may be made at any time, though one of the parties to the transaction be insolvent. There is nothing in the Bankrupt
Act which prevents an insolvent from dealing with his property-selling or exchanging it for other property-at any time before proceedings in bankruptcy are taken by or against him, provided such dealing be conducted without any purpose to defraud or delay his creditors
or to give preference to any one, and does not impair the value of his
estate.
8. Accordingly, where a depositary of certain government bonds used some
of them without the permission of the owner and substituted in their
place a bond and mortgage, and the owner of the bonds upon hearing
of the transaction ratified it, Held that the creditors of the depositary,
who had become insolvent when such approval was made, could not
complain of the transaction, there being no pretence that the property
substituted was less valuable than that taken, or that the estate of the
bankrupt was less available to his creditors.
4. The trustees of a bankrupt take his property subject to all legal and equitable claims of others. They are affected by all the equities which can
be urged against him.
6. Where property held upon any trust to keep, or use, or invest it in a particular way, is misapplied by the trustee and converted into different
property, or is sold and the proceeds are thus invested, the property
may be followed wherever it can be traced through its transformations,
and will be subject, when found in its new form, to the rights of the
original owner or cestui que trust. It does not alter the case that the
newly acquired property, instead of being purchased with the proceeds
of the original property, is obtained by a direct exchange for it.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the Southern District
of Ohio.
Cook and others, trustees in bankruptcy of the estate of

Honians, filed a bill in equity in the court below to set aside
the transfer of a certain note for $7000, secured by mortgage,

alleged to have been made by the said Homans to the de
fendant, Tullis, in violation of the provisions of the Bank.

Oct. 1873.]

QOOK

v. TULLIS.

Statement of the case.

rupt Act, and to compel an assignment of the note and
mortgage to them.
It appeared from the record that in August, 1869, and for
two years before, i-omans, the bankrupt, was engaged in.
business as a banker, in Cincinnati, in the State of Ohio;
that on several occasions during this period he had purchased bonds of the United States for the defendant, Tullis;
that these bonds were left with, him on special deposit for
safe keeping; that the bonds were inclosed in envelopes and
kept in a package by themselves, marked with the name of
Tullis, and placed in a separate box; that on one occasion,
about eighteen months before his failure, Homans had been
permitted by the defendant to use $20,000 of the bonds thus
purchased, upon condition of substituting for them in the
package an equivalent in amount in bills receivable, and
agreeing to replace the bonds when called for; that the.
bonds thus used were subsequently replaced; that on another occasion, about a year afterwards, in March, 1869, he
took, without any such permission, from the package and
used $6000 of the bonds, substituting in their place an equivalent amount in bills receivable; that in April following he
removed these bills receivable and substituted in their place,
for the bonds taken, a note and mortgage belonging to him,,
of one Hlardesty, for $7000, the note bearing date April 17th,.
1869, and payable in ninety days, and the mortgage being on
real property; that this note was not paid at maturity, and in
August following was placed by Homans, with the mortgage,
in the hands of attorneys, with instructions to give notice to,
the maker of the note that if it were not paid by the beginning of the next term of the court, proceedings by suit would
be taken for its collection; that Homans failed on the 26th
of August, 1869; that soon afterwards Tullis was infbrmed
of the substitution of the note and mortgage for his bonds;.
and that thereupon he signified his acceptance of the sameand his satisfaction with the transaction, and directed proceedings to be commenced by the attorneys, in whose handa
the papers had been placed, for the foreclosure of the mortgage.

_3,34

COOK

v. TULLIS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

It further appeared from the record that, on the 20th of
September following, Homans was adjudged a bankrupt
,.upon a petition in involuntary bankruptcy, filed on the 13th
,of the month, and that in December afterwards the coiplainants were appointed trustees of his estate.
The deposition of Homans was taken in the case, and he
stated in explanation of his conduct in appropriating the
bonds in question, that as-on a former occasion Tullis had
,consented to his using a much larger amount, he inferred
that there would be no objection to his using a smaller
amount if it could be done without risk to Tullis; that at
ihis time he was carrying on his business as usual, and did
;not apprehend insolvency or bankruptcy; that he did not
think it necessary when he placed the note and mortgage
"with his attorneys to give them notice that they belonged in
Tullis's package, and did not do so until the day of his
failure, when, remembering the omission, he gave them no,tice o that effect, and directed them to account to Tullis
for $6000 of the note, stating that this proportion of it belonged to him. It did not appear that Tullis had any knowl,edge lending him to suppose that ilomans, until the day of
his failure, was insolvent, or contemplated insolvency.
The trustees of Homans by this suit sought, as already
,said, to set aside the transfer to the defendant of the note
and mortgage, and to obtain possession of the same, on the
:alleged ground that the transfer was made for the purpose
-ofgilving the defendant a preference over the other creditors
'f tue bankrupt, and preventing a distribution of the proceeds if the note equally among his creditors, in violation
,of the provisions of the Bankrupt Act.
The proviaions relied on by the trustees are in the thirtieth section of the act (by the forty-third made applicable
to truste'e,,) and in these words :*
"If any person, being insolvent, or in contemplation of insol-vency, within four months befbre the filing of the petition by or
against him, with a view to give a preference to any creditor or
* 14 Stat. at Large, 684.

Oct. 1878.]

CooK v. TtLLIS.

335

Argument for the assignee.

person having a claim against him, . . . makes any payment,

pledge, assignment, transfer or conveyance of any part of his
property, either directly or indirectly, . . . the person resceiving
such payment, pledge, assignment, transfer or conveyance, or to
be benefited thereby, . . . having reasonable cause to believe
such person is insolvent, and that such . . . payment, pledge,

assignment or conveyance is made in fraud of the provisions of
this act, the same shall be void, and the assignee may recover
the property, or the value of it, from the person so receiving it
or so to be benefited."
The court below adjudged that the defendant was entitled
to $6000 of the proceeds of the note of Hardesty; and that
he held the balance of the proceeds as trustee for the complainants, and entered a decree to that effect. From that
decree the complainants appealed to this court.
Messrs. Georqe Hoadly and E. X. Johnson, for the appellants:
1. The Hardesty note and mortgage were part of Homans's
assets, procured by him, as we may reasonably
presume, by
means obtained from his general creditors. There is no evidence by which to apply the rule that the proceeds of a trust
estate may be followed by the cestui que trust as far as they
can be traced. We admit that property held in trust does
not pass to the assignee by the proceedings in bankruptcy,
but we assert that the trust must be such that the property
can be followed or distinguished. " When the trust property does not remain in specie, but has been made way with
by the trustee, the cestui que trust has no longer a specific
remedy against the estate, and must come in paripassu with
the other creditors."*
Homans took and used the bonds, but he does not suggest
that he applied their proceeds, or anything bought with such
proceeds, in obtaining this note and mortgage. For aught
that appears he lost the proceeds of these bonds in his business.
* In re Janeway, 4 Bankrupt Register, 26; and see Paley on Agency, 90,
by Dunlap, and cases cited.

COOK v. TULLIS.

(Sup. Ct.

Argument for the assignee.

2. The ratification could not retroact, for several reasons:.
First. The doctrine of relation is a fiction applicable only
when demanded by considerations of justice, and therefore
not required when it will defeat the intervening rights of
third persons, as here of Iomans's trustees, representing hiscreditors, whose rights, for the same reason, and by the express provision of the act, relate back four months, for thepurpose of avoiding preferences.*
Secondly. This fiction cannot apply to this case, because
its effect would be the evasion of a statute enacted in the,
interests of morality. "Directly or indirectly" shall no,
preference be permitted, says the Bankrupt Act. Now, with,
the ratification, a preference is achieved; without it, none.
The ratification is the consummation of an incomplete preference; and, as such, is itself forbidden by the act, and:
therefore to be treated as not having taken place at all, in
fact or in law.
Thirdly. A ratification is not allowed by law when the act
ratified is itself forbidden at the time of ratification. As
ilomans after he broke could not prefer Tullis directly,
neither could he prefer him by the indirect way of ratification. If an agent, without authority, assumes to do that
which is afterwards prohibited by law, it is too late to give
validity to the act by a ratification subsequent in date to the
prohibition. To permit this is to defeat the law.t
In Bird v. Brown,J Baron Rolfe discussing the effect of
ratification, says:
" But this doctrine must be taken with the qualification, that,
the act of ratification must take place at a time, and under circumstances, when the ratifying party might himself have lawfully done the act which he ratifies."
v. Bank of the United States, 8 Wheaton, 363; Stoddart v..
United States, 4 Court of Claims, 511 ; Taylor v. Robinson, 14 California,
396; Wood v. McCain, 7 Alabama, 806; Reed v. Powell, 11 Robinson's.
Louisiana, 98; Smith v. MeMicken, 12 Id. 663; Augusta Insurance Co. v&
Packwood, 9 Louisiana Annual, 83.
t McCracken v. City of San Francisco, 16 California, 691.
+ 4 Exchequer, 799.
*Fleckner

Oct. 1873.]

COOK v. TULLIS.
Opinion of the court.

He cites Lord Audley's Case,* reported alike by Croke,
Moore, and Popham, which seems in point, and is cited with
approval by Lord Coke in Margaret Podyer's Case.t
Fourthly. The alleged ratification amounts to nothing.
What was there to ratify? Nothing but the conversion of
the bonds, which made Tullis the creditor of ilomans. By
ratifying this Tullis could deprive the transaction of its tortious aspect, and make the liability one by contract also,
instead of sounding both in trover and assumpsit. But be
could do no more.
Mr. H. A. Morrill, contra.
Mr. Justice FIELD, after stating the facts of the case, de.
livered the opinion of the court, as follows:
It is evident from the statement of the transaction, that
the transfer by Homans to the defendant of the note and
mortgage of Hardesty does not present a case of preference
made by a bankrupt to one creditor over another, within the
meaning of the Bankrupt Act. It was not a transfer to
prefer a creditor. There was no debt at the time to the defendant to be preferred. The transaction was not one of
borrowing. There was no loan made nor credit given. It
was the case of an exchange of one species of property for
another, made by one party without authority from the
other, and subsequently ratified by the latter, or it was the
case of the conversion to his use by the depositary of property in his hands, and his substituting property equivalent
in value as the investment of the property converted.
This suit must proceed, therefore, if at all, not on the
ground of an alleged preference to a creditor in violation of
the Bankrupt Act, but upon the ground that the title to the
note and mortgage never passed from the bankrupt, because
the ratification of his unauthorized transaction was not made
until after the period when the rights of the trustees attached; or on the ground that the note and mortgage never
Croke, Eliz. 561; Moore, 457; Popham, 176.
VOL. xvIII.

22

t 9 Reports, 104a.

COOK

v. TULLIS.

[Sup. Ct.

. Opinion of the court.

became subject in the hands of the bankrupt to the claim of
the defendant as the investment of the latter's property, because the bonds appropriated were not first sold and their
proceeds used in the purchase of the note and mortgage.
Both of these grounds were urged by counsel of the appellants, and it is on their disposition that the case must be
determined.
The substitution of the note and mortgage in place of the
'bonds was approved by the defendant immediately upon
being made acquainted with the facts. This approval constituted a ratification of the transaction. The general rule
as to the effect of a ratification by one of the unauthorized
act of another respecting the property of the former, is
well settled. The ratification operates upon the act ratified
precisely as though authority to do the act had been previously given, except where the rights of third parties have
intervened between the act and the ratification. The retroactive efficacy of the ratification is subject to this qualification. The intervening rights of third persons cannot be
defeated by the ratification. In other words, it is essential
that the party ratifying should be able not merely to do the
act ratified at the time the act was done, but also at the time
the ratification was made. As said in one of the cases cited
by counsel, "the ratification is the first proceeding by which
he (the principal ratifying) becomes a party to the transaction, and he cannot acquire or confer the rights resulting from
that transaction unless in a position to enter directly upon a
similar transaction himself Thus, if an individual pretending to be the agent of another should enter into a contract
for the sale of land of his assumed principal, it would be
impossible for the latter to ratify the contract if, between its
date and the attempted ratification, he had himself disposed
of the property. He could not defeat the intermediate sale
made by himself, and impart validity to the sale made by
the pretended agent, for his power over the property or to
contract for its sale would be gone."* On the same prin* McCracken v. City of San Francisco, 16 California, 624.

Oct, 1873.]

CDOK

v. TULLIS.

Opinion of the court.

,iple liens by attachment or judgment upon the property of
a debtor are not affected by his subsequent ratification of a
previous unauthorized transfer of the property.*
The question, therefore, in this case is whether any rights
of third parties did thus intervene between the act of substitution made by Homans and its adoption and ratification
by Tullis, which defeated the retroactive efficacy of the ratification. And the test is, as already indicated, could the
parties have made the transaction at the time of the ratification without contravening the provisions of the Bankrupt
Act? It is asserted by the appellants that the rights of the
trustees extend not only to all property of the bankrupt in
his possession when proceedings in bankruptcy were instituted against him, but also to all property transferred by the
bankrupt within four months previously to a creditor in
order to give him a preference over other creditors, or transferred by the bankrupt within six months previously to any
one to defeat or evade the operation of the Bankrupt Act,
the grantee in both cases knowing or having reasonable
cause to believe that the grantor was at the time insolvent
or that he then contemplated insolvency. Admitting this to
be so, it does not follow that the trustees acquired any right
to the note and mortgage in question. They were not transferred to the defendant, as already stated, to give a preference to one creditor of the bankrupt over another, for the
defendant was not a creditor of Homans at the time, nor
were they transferred to him to evade or defeat any of the
provisions of the Bankrupt Act; the transaction was neither
designed nor calculated to have any such efiect. Homans
was not insolvent at the time, nor did he contemplate insolvency. But even if he had been then insolvent, the
transaction would not have been the subject of just complaint on the part of his creditors, if made with the approval
of the defendant whose bonds were taken. There is no
pretence that the property substituted was not equally valuTaylor v. Robinson, 14 California, 896; Wood v. McCain, 7 Alabama,
806; Bird v. Brown, 4 Exchequer, 799.

COOK

v. TULLIS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

able with that taken, or that the estate of the bankrupt was
any the less available to his creditors. A fair exchange of
values may be made at any time, even if one of the parties
to the transaction be insolvent. There is nothing in the
Bankrupt Act, either in its language or object, which prevents an insolvent from dealing with his property, selling or
exchanging it for other property at any time before proceedings in bankruptcy are taken by or against him, provided
such dealing be conducted without any purpose to defraud
or delay his creditors or give preference to any one, and does
not impair the value of his estate. An insolvent is not
bound, in the misfortune of his insolvency, to abandon all
dealing with his property; his creditors can only complain
if he waste his estate or give preference in its disposition to
one over another. His dealing will stand if it leave his
estate in as good plight and condition as previously.
We do not think, therefore, that the rights of the trustees,
though relating back four months so as to avoid preferences
to creditors, and six months to avoid transfers to others, in
fraud of the act, and thus going back of the ratification,
touched the transaction in question or prevented the ratification from having complete retroactive efficacy.
The position of counsel, that the ratification, if sustained,
only extended to the conversion of the bonds, and merely
operated to deprive the transaction of its tortious aspect, all
else consisting of dealings by Homans with his own property, is not tenable. The answer to it is, that the ratification was of the whole transaction taken together; that of
the appropriation of the bonds upon substituting an equivalent in value for them, not of a part without the rest, not of
the appropriation without the substitution.
Nor do we perceive the force of the objection to the
validity of the transaction, because Homans intended to
limit the transfer to the value of the bonds, to wit, six thou.
sand dollars. The transfer was in form of the whole note,
with a reservation to himself of the surplus over the amount
of the bonds received from its proceeds. The note being
indivisible, the legal title to a part could only be made by a

Oct. 1873.]

COOK v. TULLIS.
Opinion of the court.

transfer of the instrument itself. The reservation of the
surplus was not forbidden by any rule of law, and a court
of equity would, and, in this case has, given effect to it.
But if we lay aside the doctrine of ratification as inapplicable, and assume that the transaction could not have been
made by the parties after the failure of Homans, and, therefore, that the previous substitution could not then have been
ratified, and treat the case as one of simple misappropriation
of property of the defendant, still the trustees must fail in
their suit. They took the property of the bankrupt subject
to all legal and equitable claims of others. They were affected by all the equities which could be urged against him.
Now, it is a rule of equity jurisprudence, perfectly well settled and of universal application, that where property held
upon any trust to keep, or use, or invest it in a particular
way, is misapplied by the trustee and converted into different
property, or is sold and the proceeds are thus invested, the
property may be followed wherever it can be traced through
its transformations, and will be subject, when found in its
new form, to the rights of the original owner or cestui que
rusl.
In the case of Taylor, assignee of a bankrupt, against
Plumer,* this doctrine is well illustrated. There a draft for
money was intrusted to a broker to buy exchequer bills for
his principal, and the broker received the money and misapplied it by purchasing American stock and bullion, intending to abscond with them, and did abscond, but was
taken before he quitted England. Thereupon he surrendered the stock and bullion to his principal, who sold the
whole and received the proceeds. The broker became bankrupt on the day he received and misapplied the money, and
his assignees sued for the proceeds of the stock and bullion.
But the court decided that the principal was entitled to the
proceeds as against the assignees, holding that if property
in its original state and form is covered with a trust in favor
of the principal, no change of that state and form can divest
* 3 Maule & Selwyn, 562.

MULHALL

v.

KEENAN.

[Sup. CL

Syllabus.

it of such trust and give to the trustee, or those who represent him in right, any more valid claim in respect to it than
he previously had; and that it makes no difference in reason
or law into what other form, different from the original, the
change may have been made, for the product of, or substitution for, the original thing still follows the nature of the
thing itself, as long as it can be ascertained to be such, and
that the right only ceases when the means of ascertainment
fail.
It is contended that the doctrine of this case does not apply, because the note and mortgage were not purchased with
the proceeds of the bonds taken, but were substituted for
them. We do not think this fact takes the present case
from the principle upon which the other proceeds, that property acquired by a wrongful appropriation of other property
covered by a trust, is itself subject to the same trust. It
cannot alter the case that the newly acquired property, instead of being purchased with the proceeds of the original
property, is obtained by a direct exchange for it. The real
question in both cases is, what has taken the place of the
property in its original form ? Whenever that can be ascertained, the property in the changed form may be claimed by
the original owner or the cestui que trust, and assignees and
trustees in bankruptcy can acquire no interest in the property in its changed form which will defeat his rights in a
court of equity.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

Mr. Justice MILLER dissented.

MULHALL

V.

KEENAN ET AL.

1. Where, on a suit to recover a balance of a draft claimed because consignments of cattle against which the draft was drawn, have not proved adequate to protect it, the question is whether the draft was drawn under a
letter of instructions and in behalf of the doings of another person, one
T., an agent of the drawees, or whether it was drawn by the drawer iD

