4370

HICKS V. KELSEY.

[Sup. CL

Statement of the case.

duties. That office belongs to the quartermaster's department. What the commissary provides to feed the army it
is the duty of the quartermaster to transport to such points
as may be needed. Hence, in the case before us, it was in
the ordinary course of business, the contract for transportation being already made, and further supplies being needed,
that the purchase of the same should devolve on the commissary department.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

HICKS V. KELSEY.

The mere change in an instrument or machine of one material into anothe-as of wood, or of wood strengthened with iron, into iron alone-is nct
"invention" in the sense of the Patent Acts, and therefore is not the
subject of a patent; the purpose and means of accomplishment, and form
and mode of operation of each instrument-the new as of the old-being
each and all the same. The mere fact that the new instrument is a better
one than the old one-requiring less repair, and having greater solidity
than the old one, does not alter the case. It does not bring the case out
of the category of more or less excellence of construction.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the Northern District
of Illinois; the case being this:
Hicks obtained a patent for an improved wagon-reach,
and filed a bill against Kelsey, charging infringement and
praying the usual relief. The defendant answered, denying
the novelty of the alleged invention, and also denying infringement.
The thing called a " wagon-reach "-that is to say, a pole
or shaft connecting the front and rear axles of wagons or
carriages, and having an upward crook or curve in it, so as
to allow the front wheel, which, when a carriage is turned,
goes against the reach if straight, to pass under it-had confessedly long been made, and was public property. These
had been made of wood, necessarily for the sake of strength
of a certain thickness, and consisted of one piece, strengthened by straps of iron attached to each side of the reach.

Oct. 1873.]

HIICKS

v.

K ELSEY.

Statement of the case.

The supposed improvement of the plaintiff consisted precisely and only in leaving out the wood in the curve and bolting the iron straps together, whereby the curve became all'
iron and less bulky, but in all other respects having the
same shape and performing the same office as before. About
all this there was no dispute whatever. Instead of being
bolted together, the straps might be welded so as to make
the curve consist of solid iron.
The question was whether this change of material-making the curve of iron instead of wood and iron-was a sufficient change to constitute invention,-the purpose being
the same (namely, to turn the wheel under the body of
the wagon), the means of accomplishing it being the same
(namely, by a curved reach), and the form of the reach and
mode of operation being the same.
Witnesses were examined, whose testimony went to show
that the iron reach had advantages over those of mere wood,
or of wood and iron. One said that of thirty-five, which he
had made in about two years, none had come back broken, or
needing repairs; that this was not the case with the old sort.
Another said:
"My experience is that, in those made of wood and iron, the
wood between the iron plates in summer contracts and loosens
the bolts."
Another said:
"RHicks's reach being iron, the two plates come together as
-one whole substantially soldered. In the wooden one, the moment the shrinkage becomes such that the bolts become loose,
each has to take its own part, and the transit of the trucks,
moving from the right to the left, turning the friction from that,
takes each separate strain from one and throws it on to the
other, so it makes only the thickness of the one side-the one
piece of iron-where otherwise it would be two plates together.
The crooked part, right at the crook, would break, according to
that arrangement, because the other part is stronger. It will
'break whenever it gets so it will vibrate, at the weakest point."
The court below decided that plainly there was nothing

HIcKs V. KELSEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the patentee.

but a change of material, and that this-the purpose, means,
of accomplishment, form of the instrument, mode of operation, being all as in the old reach-was not a sufficient
change to constitute invention. It accordingly dismissed the,
bill. From its action herein this appeal was taken.
Mr. S. A. Goodwin, for the appellant:
This invention does not consist in the mere substitution of'
a particular material for other material which had been previously used for the same purpose and in the same way.
The invention consists in the production of a certain described article by a certain described mechanical process,,
which process, viewed as a whole, is new in itself That
process is, the making an ordinary wooden reach of two,
separate parts, in splicing those parts at the front and rear
ends by a particular and new mechanical arrangement to a
curved metallic intermediary splice, made substantially solid
in two plates, or one casting, so that a new article is produced by a new mechanical arrangement or device,-a new
curved reach. This article has added advantages and increased utility over the old wooden curved reach improved
upon. They are shown in the proofs. Indeed, the matter
is intelligible without proofs. The curved reach is indispensable, to prevent the wheel, when the carriage is turned and
one of the front wheels put under it, from rubbing against
the reach, lifting it up, and upsetting the carriage. But a
curved reach must be made. One is rarely found in the
natural growth of a tree. The curved part, when made, is
necessarily weak, being usually made of wood sawed across
the grain. To give strength the whole wooden reach has
iron plates along it, fastened on both its sides with spikes or
bolts. The wood and the iron shrink unequally, and the
bolts all become loose. But when the central part is all
made of iron alone, leaving the ends, for the sake of lightness, to be of wood alone, all this is obviated.
We say, then, that this new material in the crook or curve;
with the new method of attachment at each end (the splice) to
the two wooden parts; with the new construction of the reach

Oct. 1873.]

HICKS V. hKELSEY.
Opinion of the court.

as a whole; with the new operation in consequence of the
change; with the increased utility and beneficial results, thus
incontestably proved, bring this patent Within the principle
of all the cases as a patentable invention.
There are many cases in which the materiality of an invention, whether it be a machine or a process, can be judged of
only by its effect on the result, and this effect is tested by the
actual improvement in the process of producing an article,
or in the article itself introduced by the alleged invention.*
No opposing counsel.
Mr. Justice BRADLEY, having stated the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.
The question is whether the mere change of materialmaking the curve of iron instead of wood and iron-was a
sufficient change to constitute invention ; the purpose being
the same, the means of accomplishing it being the same, and
the form of the reach and mode of operation being the same.
It is certainly difficult to bring the case within any recognized rule of novelty by which the patent can be sustained.
The use of one material instead of another in constructing a,
known machine is, in most cases, so obviously a matter of
mere mechanical judgment, and not of invention, that it
cannot be called an invention, unless some new and useful
result, an increase of efficiency, or a decided saving in the
operation, is clearly attained. Some evidence was given to
show that the wagon-reach of the plaintiff is a better reach,
requiring less repair, and -having greater solidity than the
wooden reach. But it is not sufficient to bring the case out
of the category of more or less excellence of construction.
The machine is the same. Axe-helves made of hickory may
be more durable and more cheap in the end than those made
of beech or pine, but the first application of hickory to the
purpose would not be, therefore, patentable.
* Roberts v. Dickey, 4 Fisher, 532, per Strong, J.; and see McCormick
v. Seymour, 2 Blatchford, 243-definition of a patentable subject, by Nelson, J.
VOL. XVIII.

43

674

HICKS v. KELSEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Cases have frequently arisen in which substantially the
question now presented has been discussed. Perhaps, however, none can be cited more directly in point than that of
fotchkiss v. Greenwood,* in which it was held that the sub
stitution of porcelain for metal in making door-knobs of a
particular construction was not patentable, though the new
material was better adapted to the purpose and made a
better and cheaper knob-having been used for door-knobs,
however, before. So, in a case at the circuit, referred to by
Justice Nelson in the last-named case,t the substitution of
wood for bone as the basis of a button covered with tin was
held not patentable.
In Crane v. Price,j it is true, the use of anthracite instead
of bituminous coal with the hot-blast in smelting iron ore
was held to be a good invention, inasmuch as it produced a
better article of iron at a less expense. But that was a process of manufacture, and in such processes a different article
replacing another article in the combination often produces
different results. The latter case is more analogous to the
cases of compositions of matter than it is to those of machinery; and in compositions of matter a different ingredient
changes the identity of the compound, whereas an iron bar
in place of a wooden one, and subserving the same purpose,
does not change the identity of a machine.ยง
But the plaintiff's counsel alleges that his invention does
not consist of the mere substitution of a particular material
for another material which had been previously used for the
same purpose in the same way, but consists in the production of a certain described article by a certain described mechanical process, which process, viewed as a whole, is new
and useful; and then he describes what he supposes to be
such new mechanical process. This is his argument; but
the facts do not bear out such a view of the case.
In our judgment, the patent in this case is void for want
of novelty in the alleged invention.
DECREE AFFIRMED.
11 Howard, 248.
t 1b. 266.
See Curtis on Patents, 3d edition,

Webster's Patent Cases, 409.
70-73.

