GLENN V. JOHNSON.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case in the opinion.

GLENN ET AL. V. JOHNSON ET AL.
'The personal
State not
from her
cannot be

acquisitions of a wife, in Georgia, being by statute of that
subject to the debts of her husband, her separate earnings
individual labor and business, carried on with his consent,
reached by his assignees in bankruptcy.

APPEAL from the District Court for the Northern District

of Georgia.
Glenn and another, assignees in bankruptcy of George
Johnson, who, in 1868, in proceedings instituted on his own
petition, had been declared a bankrupt by the District Court
-of Georgia, filed a bill in the court below against the said
(George, his wife, and a certain Flynn, trustee of the wife, to
reach certain real property situated in the city of Atlanta,
,standing in the name of Flynn, as such trustee, and to subject it to the payment of his debts.
The court below dismissed the bill, and the assignees of
the bankrupt took this appeal.

Messrs. E. N. Broyles and R. Arnold, for the appellants; no
opposing counsel.
Mr. Justice FIELD stated the facts of the case, and delivered the opinion of the court, as follows:
It appears that in July, 1863, one Thomas S. Powell conveyed to the trustee the property in question, for the alleged
consideration of four thousand dollars; and that subsequently, in 1867, buildings and other improvements were
placed upon the property to the value of two thousand dollars. The deed recites that the consideration was paid by
.Mrs. Johnson, and declares that the property is conveyed to
the trustee in trust for her sole and separate use, and is not
to be liable for the debts or contracts of her husband.
The bill alleges, upon the belief of the complainants, that
the consideration was paid, and the improvements were
made, out of the funds of the husband, who, at the time the

Oct. 1873.]

GLENN V. JOHNSON.
Opinion of the court.

property was purchased, was greatly embarrassed by debts,
and at the time the improvements were made was wholly
insolvent. It, therefore, charges that the conveyance to the
wife and the improvements upon the property were made in
fraud of the creditors of the husband, and prays that the
conveyance may be declared fraudulent, and the property
decreed to be sold and the proceeds administered by the
complainants under the provisions of the Bankrupt Act; or,
if the conveyance be not thus declared fraudulent, that the
property be sold and the proceeds, to the extent of the value
of the improvements, be thus administered.
The husband, the wife, and the trustee separately answered
the bill, and all averred, the husband and wife positively,
and the trustee upon information and belief, that the consideration of the conveyance and the cost of the improvements were paid out of the earnings of the wife from her
individual labor and business carried on with the consent
of her husband. The answers are under oath, and their
averments in this particular were subsequently sustained by
the testimony of the parties as well as by the testimony of
other persons.
The position of the complainants that this fact constitutes
no defence to the suit, would be a sound one if the case were
to be determined independently of the statute of Georgia.
At common law, an agreement after marriage between husband and wife that the latter may carry on business on her
own account and retain her earnings, is invalid as against
his creditors, unless founded upon a valuable consideration ;
a voluntary agreement to that effect is only good as against
him.*
But the statute of Georgia comes to the aid of the wife
and protects her separate earnings fi'om his creditors. Section 1702, of the code of that State, whilst providing that all
property given to the wife during the coverture, or acquired
by her, shall vest in the husband, declares that "any words
2 Story's Equity, H 1885-1887.

478

STEAMBOAT COMPANY

v.

THE COLLECTOR.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

in the gift or bequest indicating a wish for the personal enjoynent thereof by the wife, such as a gift to the wife by
name, shall create a separate estate therein for her, and in
no case shall the personal acquisitions of the wife be subject
to the debts of the husband."*
The earnings of the wife are thus placed beyond the reach
of his creditors and of course of his assignees in bankruptcy.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

STEAMBOAT

COMPANY V. THE COLLECTOR.

1. Under the ninth section of the act of July 13th, 1866, laying on the
owners of steamboats a tax of " 21 per cent. of the gross receipts from
passengers," the owners of a night-boat which receives a certain sum for
the mere transportation of persons (that is to say, for their passage, or
barely being on the boat during its transit), and also a certain sum for
the use of berths and state-rooms (which berths and state-rooms it was
not obligatory on the passengers to take, or pay for, and which persons
who were willing to sit up all night did not take), is chargeable with 2j
per centum on the latter sort of receipts as well as on the former.
2. A .roviso to an existing act, held to have been repealed by an act which
"mended"
the former act, "by striking out all after the enacting
clause and inserting in lieu thereof, the following ;" this "following "
being in part an iteration of the words of the section amended, and in
part ziew enactments.
8. The proviso in the fourth section of the act of March 3d, 1865, exempting a certain class of steamboats from a tax of 2j per cent., which was
laid on ,.11 steamboats by the one hundred and third section of the act
of Jun, 30ih, 1864, fell by the enactment of the ninth section of the act
of Jul v 3.h, 1866, which "amended the first-named act by striking out
all af er the enacting clause and inserting in lieu thereof the following;"
this "following" being in part an iteration of the words of the section
of the ot of June 80th, 1864, amended, and in part new enactments.

ERROL to the Circuit Court for the Southern District of
New York.
The New Jersey Steamboat Company had a night-line of
steamboats which ran between New York and Albany, and
Code of Georgia in force in 1863, p. 338,

1701-2.

