TOWN OF OHIO V. MARCY.

[
[Sup.
Ct.

Statement of the case.

of the commissioners to accept any offer when not made by
the owner in person.
If so, the commissioners were not authorized to make the
sale in controversy, and the judgment must be
AFFIRMED.

TOWN OF OHIO V. MARCY.
A judgment affirmed because there was no question of law which this court
could consider, in a case where a trial by jury was waived in writing
and the case submitted to the court, where the finding of the court was
general; where the bill of exceptions embodied all the testimony in the
case, but where no exception was taken to the admission or rejection of
testimony or to any ruling of the court on the trial, and where no question was raised in the case on the pleadings.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Northern District of
Illinois.
Marcy brought assumpsit in the court below against the
town of Ohio, in Illinois, on the interest warrants of certain
bonds which the said town had issued, and which warrants
it neglected to pay. ' The parties waived a jury in writing
and submitted the case to the court. The finding of the
court was general, namely, " That upon the matters submitted, the court finds the issue for the plaintiff, and assesses
his damages at the sum of $4286.60." Judgment was rendered fbr this sum.
A bill of exceptions embodied all the testimony in the
case, but no exception was taken to the admission or rejection of evidence, or to any ruling of the court on the trial.
The town brought the case here on error. No question was
raised on the pleadings.

Messrs. X. T. Peters and J. B. Hawley, for the plaintiff in
error; Messrs. Paddock and Ide, contra.
Mr. Justice MILLER announced the judgment of the

Oct. 1878.] (CASE OF THE SEWING MACHINE COMPANIES.

553

Statement of the case.

court, AFFIRMING THE JUDGMENT below, because, upon the

case as above given, there was nothing in the record which
'raised any question of law which this court could consider.

CASE OF THE SEWING MACHINE COMPANIES.
A case in which the plaintiff is a citizen of the State where the suit is
brought and two of the defendants are citizens of other States, a third
defendant being a citizen of the same State as the plaintiff, is not removable to the Circuit Court of the United States under the act of
March 2d, 1867, upon the petition of the two foreign defendants.

ERROR to the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts.
The Florence Sewing Machine Company, a Massachusetts
-corporation, sued, in assumpsit, in the court just named,
three other sewing machine companies; one of them, like
itself, a Massachusetts corporation, another a Connecticut
-corporation, and the third a New York corporation. The
writ was returnable to April Term, 1871.
The purpose of the suit was to recover of the three de-

fendant corporations an alleged overpayment which the
plaintiff company alleged that it had made to them, under a

license agreement which they had granted to it. Service of
the writ was made upon all the defendants, according to the
laws of Massachusetts; upon the two foreign corporations
by attachment of the property of each within the State, &c.

The Massachusetts corporation which was thus sued appeared at the April Term, 1871, by counsel, and filed its
answer, and at the April Term, 1872, the Connecticut and
New York corporations did the same.
At the said April Term, 1872, and before the trial of the
case, the Connecticut corporation filed a petition, under the
act of March 2d, 1867, hereinafter particularly set forth,* for
the removal of the cause to the Circuit Court of the United
'

Infra, p. 557-8.

