156

DAY v. MIcou.

[Sup. Ct,

Statement of the case.

DAY v. MIcou.
1. Under the act of July 17th, 1862, known as the Confiscation Act, and the
Joint Resolution, of the same date, explanatory of it, only the life estate
of the person for whose offence the land has been seized, is subject to
condemnation and sale. The fact that the decree may have condemned
the fee does not alter the case.
2 When such person has, previously to his offence, mortgaged the land to
a bona fide mortgagee, the mortgage is not divested. His estate and
property in the land being but the land subject to the mortgage, any
sale made in pursuance of the act passes the life estate subject to the
charge.

to the Supreme Court of the State of Louisiana.
An act of Congress, commonly called the Confiscation
Act, passed July 17th, 1862,* during the rebellion, and entitled "An act to suppress insurrection, to punish treason
and rebellion, to seize and confiscate the property of rebels,
and for other purposes," after providing in its first section
that treason shall be punished with death, and in its second that
persons inciting, setting on foot, assisting, or engaging in
rebellion, &c., shall be punished with fine and imprisonment; in the third that every person guilty of either of the
offences described in the act shall be incapable to hold any
office under the United States; with a limitation in the
fourth section that the act should not affect those guilty before its date, &c., enacted further:
"SEc. 5. That to insure the speedy termination of the present
rebellion, it shall be the duty of the President to cause the seiz.
ure of all the estate and property of the persons hereinafter
named, and to apply and use the same and the proceeds thereof
for the support of the army of the United States."
ERROR

The section proceeded to name six classes of persons
whose property should be liable to seizure: officers of the
army and navy of the rebels in arms against the government,
or officers of the so-called " Confederate" States, and among
them any person thereafter acting as a " Cabinet officer" of
* 12 Stat. at Large, 589.

Oct. 1873.]

DAY V. MICOU.
Statement of the case.

such States, or agents of the same, or officers or agents of
some one of the rebel States, or persons who gave aid and
comfort to the rebellion.
The sixth section was thus:
"If any person within any State or Territory of the United
States, other than those named as aforesaid, being engaged in
armed rebellion against the government of the United States,
or aiding or abetting such rebellion, shall not within sixty days,
&c., cease to aid, countenance, and abet such rebellion, all the
estate and property, moneys, stocks, and credits of such person
shall be liable to seizure as aforesaid; and it shall be the duty
of the President to seize and use them as aforesaid or the proceeds thereof."
The seventh section provided:
"That to secure the condemnation of any such property after
the same shall have been seized, so that it may be made available for the purpose aforesaid, proceedings in rem shall be instituted in the name of the United States in any District Court
thereof or in any Territorial Court, or in any United States
District Court within which the property above described or any
part thereof may be found .....
.which proceedings shall conform as nearly as may be to proceedings in admiralty and revenue cases; and if said property . .

.

. shall be found to have

belonged to a person engaged in rebellion, or who has given aid
or comfort thereto, the same shall be condemned as enemies'
property, and become the property of the United States, and
may be disposed of as the court shall decree."
By a Joint Resolution, explanatory of this act, passed on
the same day with it, it was resolved by Congress that no
punishment or proceedings under the act should be "so
construed as to work a forfeiture of the real estate of the
offender beyond his natural life."*
This statute, thus explained, being in force, a libel of information was filed, in January, 1865, in the District Court
for the Eastern District of Louisiana, against " two squares
of ground [described], property of J. P. Benjamin," which
* See Forrest v. Bigelow, 9 Wallace, 341.

DAY 'v. MIcou.

ESup. Ct

Argument for the appellant.

property the said Benjamin had, in 1858, by proper instruinent duly inscribed, mortgaged to one Madame Micou. In
the libel of information Mr. Benjamin was charged to have
been owner of the property at the date of the act just named,
and the ground on which a forfeiture was claimed was that
subsequently to the passage of the act he had acted as a
Cabinet officer of the so-called Confederate States. An
order of publication was made, by which all persons interested in the property were required to appear on the 13th
of February, 1865, to answer and to show cause "why said
property and real estate, and the right, title, and interest therein
of the said J. P. Benjamin, should not be condemned and sold
according to law." There was no opposition, and on the
18th day of March, 1865, the judgment of condemnation
was entered; the decretal order describing the property as
belonging to J. P. Benjamin. The property was sold May
15th, 1865, and a deed was executed to the purchaser, Madison Day.
In this state of things Madame Micou or her representatives filed, in 1868, a bill of foreclosure of the mortgage
against Benjamin as mortgagor and Day as a " third possessor" or terre tenant. Benjamin made no opposition, but
Day set up a claim as owner of the property in fee simple,
discharged of all liens; the foundation of such his claim
being the already mentioned proceeding in rem in the District Court under the Confiscation Act.
The court in which the bill was filed held that under this
act no estate of any kind in fee simple passed, but at best
the life estate of Mr. Benjamin, and that this was subject to
the mortgage of Madame Micou, regularly created and in
existence before the rebellion began. The decree founded
on this view being affirmed in the Supreme Court of the
State, the case was now brought here.
Mr. Madison Day, appellant,proprid persond:
The court below erred, among other ways,
1st. In its view that no estate but the life estate of Mr.
Benjamin passed, and

Oct, 1873.]

DAY V. MIcou.
Argument for the appellant.

2d. In its view that the mortgage of Madame Micou was
,not discharged.
1. The Confiscation Act, as it is called, is an exercise of
both sovereign authority and the belligerent right of confiseating enemy property on land during a state of war.
The first four sections of the statute relate to the punishment of treason and rebellion. This is an exercise of sovereign authority, and constitutes alone the criminal portion
of the act. The other provisions of the act providing for
the seizure and condemnation of the property seized, "as
,enemies' property," is but an exercise of the belligerent right
,ofconfiscating enemy property in time of war.
These different provisions of the act are, therefore, to be
taken and regarded as distinct from each other, as if they
were embodied in two separate acts. The one relates to
.citizens and proceedings in time of peace; the other relates
to enemies and proceedings in time of war. And they also
,differ from each other as to the mode of procedure and the
rules of law which apply to and govern the same. A resolution or provision of law, therefore, which only embraces the
.one cannot be said to extend to and include the other. And
this being so, it follows, as a matter of course, that the joint
,resolution which says " nor shall any punishment or proceedings under the act be so construed as to work a forfeiture
-of the real estate of the offender beyond his natural life,"
.only applies to punishments and proceedings against offenders
under the criminal portion of the act, and does not extend
to or limit the confiscation of property under the other pro'visions of the statute, as enemies' property, to a mere life estate.
2. As it is provided in the Confiscation Act that the proceedings were to be in rem, and that if the property seized
was found to belong to a person named in the act, the same
was to be condemned as enemies' property, it follows as a
matter of course, that the operation and effect of the decree
of condemnation and sale must be the same as that which
attaches to other decrees and sales in a proceeding in rem.
Now what is the known and established operation and effect
,of a decree and sale in rem ?

DAY V. MICOU.

[Sup. Ct-

Opinion of the court.

In the Propeller Commerce,* the court says:
"Process in rem is founded on a right in the thing, and the ob-ject of the process is to obtain the thing itself, or a satisfaction,
out of it, for some claim resting on a real or quasi proprietary
right in it."

In such a proceeding there are no adversary parties-no
personal defendant. The thing itself is seized and impleaded
as the defendant. But all persons who have any claim upon,.
or right in or to the thing, may, if they choose, come in as,
claimants and propound their interest in the thing and beheard, and are, therefore, deemed parties and bound accordingly, whether any party actually appears or not. Hence
all persons who have this right may be, and are fairly considered as parties to the suit, and bound by the result
thereof. Every party in interest is, therefore, estopped by
a decree in rem from disputing the judgment, which, as is.
well said by the court in Parker v. Overmann,t "is conclusive against the absent claimant as well as the present contestant."
Mr. Thomas Allen Clarke (whom the court declined to hear),.
contra.
Mr. Justice STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
Most of the questions in this case were settled adversely
to the claims of the plaintiff in error by our decision of
Bigelow v. Forrest.T We then determined that under the
act of Congress of July 17, 1862, known as the Confiscation
Act, and the Joint Resolution of the same date explanatory
thereof, only the life estate of the person for whose offence,
the land had been seized was subject to condemnation and
sale. We also determined that nothing more was within
the jurisdiction or judicial power of the District Court, and
that consequently a decree condemning the fee could haveno greater effect than to subject the life estate to sale. This.
in effect disposes of the present case.
1 Black, 580-1.

+ 18 Howard, 140.

1 9 Wallace, 389.

Oct. 1873.']

DAY V.

MIcou.

Opinion of the court.

It is insisted, however, the Supreme Court of Louisiana
erred in holding that the property condemned and sold remained in the hands of the purchaser at the sale, subject to
the mortgage given in 1858 to the ancestor of the defendants in error. The argument rests upon a misconception of
the act of 1862. That act, for the purpose of insuring the
speedy termination of the rebellion, authorized the seizure of
all the estate and property, money, stocks, credits, and effects
of six classes of persons described in the fifth section. The
persons designated in those several classes were either offi.
cers in the army or navy of the rebels in arms against tho
government of the United States, or officers of the so-called
Confederate States, or agents thereof, or officers or agents
of some one of the States of that confederacy, or persons
who gave aid and comfort to the rebellion. So the sixth
section directed the seizure of all the estate and property of
the persons described in that section. It was not any property in which the persons described in these two sections
might have an interest that was made subject to seizure,
but it was their estate and property, their interest in it, whatever that interest might be. The act manifestly contemplated no seizure of anything more than that which belonged
to the offending person, and the thing seized, or its proceeds,
was by the fifth section directed to be applied for the use of
the army of the United States. If now we proceed to the
seventh section, it will appear plainly that only that which
was seized, seized lawfully in accordance with the directions
of the two preceding sections, was made the subject for condemnation and sale. That section commences thus: "That
to secure the condemnation and sale of any such property,
after the same shall have been seized, so that it may be
made available for the purpose aforesaid, proceedings in rem
shall be instituted in the name of the United States in any
District Court thereof, or in any Territorial Court, or in the
United States District Court for the District of Columbia,
within which the property above described or any part thereof
may be found," &c. What property is this thus brought
within the jurisdiction of the District Court?
Beyond
VOL. XVIII.

11

DAY V. MIooU.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

doubt the property which had been seized, that is, the estate and property of the offending person, and no other.
If it was a term, or an estate at will, or a life estate, or an
estate in joint tenancy, or in common, whatever it was, it
was the subject alike of seizure and of condemnation. It
is true proceedings in rem were ordered to be instituted in
the District Court, but the question remains, what was the
res against which the proceedings were directed ? The answer must be, that which was seized and brought within the
jurisdiction of the court. A condemnation in a proceeding
in rent does not necessarily exclude all claim to other interests than those which were seized. In admiralty cases and
in revenue cases a condemnation and sale generally pass the
entire title to the property condemned and sold. This is
because the thing condemned is considered as the offender
or the debtor, and is seized in entirety. But such is not the
case in many proceedings which are in rem. Decrees of
courts of probate or orphans' courts directing sales for the
payment of a decedent's debts or for distribution are proceedings in rent. So are sales under attachments or proceedings to foreclose a mortgage, quasi proceedings in rem, at
least. But in none of these cases is anything more sold
than the estate of the decedent, or of the debtor or the
mortgagor in the thing sold. The interests of others are
not cut off or affected.
If then, as we hold, the property and estate of J. P. Benjamin was all that was seized, or all that could be seized
and condemned in these confiscation proceedings, those who
held other interests in the land were not bound to come in
and assert their claims. Their interests did not pass to the
purchaser at the sale, and they remain unaffected by the
decree of condemnation and the sale thereunder.
There is, therefore, no error in the judgment of the Su.
preme Court, and it is
AFFIRMED.
(See the next case, infra, p. 177.]

