SHREWSBURY V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

SHREWSBURY V. UNITED STATES.
A quartermastercontracted at Fort Leavenworth with A. that he, A., should
transportto Fort Union, from Fort Leavenworth, all the military stores
and supplies for which the quartermaster's department might require
transportation from the one place to the other during the year 1865,
provided that their weight should not exceed a weight specified.
Within the year, and before A. had been offered for transportation supplies to the weight specified, the commissary of subsistence at the same
Fort Leavenworth, made a contract with B. and C., that they should
deliver at the same Fort Union, a certain quantity of supplies, these last
agreeing that the supplies should be of a certain sort and quality specified, and should be delivered within a certain time, and be subject to
inspection, acceptance, or rejection by the officer receiving the same :
Held, that the making of the second contract was no infringement of the
first.
Held, further, that the fact that B. and C. had borrowed from the quartermaster at Fort Leavenworth some of the corn which they delivered
at Fort Union, under their contract (they having afterwards repaid it
in kind), did not show that the government in making the second contract meant to evade its obligations under the first.

from the Court of Claims; the case as found by
that court being thus:
On the 27tb of March, 1865, one Shrewsbury entered, at
Fort Leavenworth, Kansas, into a contract with Colonel
Potter, a quartermaster of the army there, by which it was
agreed that he, Shrewsbury, should "receive" at any time
from May to September, 1865, from the officers of the
quartermaster's department, at Forts Leavenworth and
Riley, and town of Kansas, all such military stores and supplies, as might "be turned over to him for transportationby
the officer or agent of the quartermaster's department at
any or all of the above-named places, and transport the
same" to the officer of the quartermaster's department on
duty at Fort Union, in the Territory of New Mexico, or
any other depot that may be designated in that Territory.
In a subsequent article of the contract, Shrewsbury contracted to " transport all the military stores and supplies for
which the quartermaster's department may require transAPPEAL

Oct. 1878.]

SHREWSBURY V. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the case.

portation by contract, during the year 1865, provided that
the weight of such military stores and supplies should not
exceed in the aggregate 15,000,000 pounds." The article
contained a clause thus:
"Nothing herein shall be so construed as to forbid or prevent
the United States from using its own means of transportation
for such service, whenever it may be deemed advisable to do so."
Under this agreement stores were furnished to Shrewsbury by the quartermaster's department to the amount of
14,200,000 pounds, for the transportation of which he was
paid. He was prepared with the means of transportation,
and ready to transport the remainder of the 15,000,000
pounds, which, under the contract, he was bound to carry;
but it was not furnished to him for transportation.
On the 29th of September, 1865, Colonel Morgan, commissary of subsistence at Fort Leavenworth, entered into a
contract with Fuller & Tiernan to deliver "to the officer of
Mhe subsistence department" at this same Fort Union, 18,000
bushels (or about 1,000,000 pounds), of shelled corn, on or
before the 20th of December, 1865, the same to be "of the
best quality, well sacked in new gunny-sacks, securely
sewed with linen twine; free from dirt, cobs, or otheforeign matter, and to be either yellow or white, but not
mixed in the sacks." The contract proceeded:
" The parties of the second part agree that said corn shall be
-subject to the inspection, acceptance, or rejection of the officer
receiving the same, and that if default shall be made by the
said parties of the second part, or either of them, in the time
of delivery, or any of the terms of this contract, the party of
the first part, or any person acting for him on behalf of the
United States, shall have power to purchase the corn in open
market, and the said parties of the second part, and their
sureties, shall be charged with the difference between the cost
thereof and the price hereinafter stipulated to be paid to the
said parties of the second part.
"For and in consideration of the faithful performance of the
vtipulation- of this contract the said party of the first part

SHREWSBURY

V.

UNITED STATES.

[Stup. Ot.

Statement of the case.

agrees to pay, or cause to be paid, to the parties of the second
part, at the office of the commissary of subsistence at Fort
Leavenworth, Kansas, the sum of $8.54 for each and every
bushel of corn delivered and accepted in accordance with the
terms thereof, payment to be made on vouchers issued and certified by the officer receiving said corn."
This contract was entered into by Morgan with Fuller &
Tiernan, in pursuance of an order received by the former
from the commissary of subsistence at St. Louis, Missouri,
requiring Morgan to send corn to New Mexico to the
amount of about 1,000,000 pounds. It being too late in the
season for Morgan to advertise for proposals for the corn,
and to purchase it under advertisement in time to send it
out by the government freighter, and, having an offer from
Fuller & Tiernan, who were then furnishing corn to the
quartermaster's department at Fort Leavenworth, to deliver
the corn required for the subsistence department at Fort
Union, he entered into the said contract with them. This
corn was to be sent to the said fort, not for the army, but to feed
Mexicans or Indians. Morgan urging Fuller & Tierian to
send the corn off, they borrowed from the quartermaster of
Fort Leavenworth some corn which they were delivering to
him; the said quartermaster lending it to Fuller & Tiernan,
to accommodate the subsistence department, and to enable
Fuller & Tiernan to begin on their contract sooner than
they could do if they had to wait to get the corn from St.
Louis.
The quantity of corn so lent by the quartermaster's department to Fuller & Tiernan was about one-half of the
million pounds which they confracted to deliver at Fort
Union; and the amount lent to them was afterwards returned by them, in kind, to the quartermaster's department

at Fort Leavenworth. Fuller & Tiernan delivered at Fort
Union 858,000 pounds of corn, all of which was received by
the government on their contract. About 120,000 pounds
of the corn they shipped for Fort Union was stopped and
taken by the government at Fort Dodge.
Shrewsbury insisting that the making of this contract by

Oct. 1873.]

SHREWSBURY V. UNITED STATES

667

Opinion of the court.

an officer of the United States, in September, 1865, and its
performance, constituted a breach of his contract made with
Colonel Potter in March of the same year, filed a petition
in the court below, claiming as damages the profit on the
transportation of about 800,000 pounds of corn, which, he
insisted, should have been furnished for transportation on
his contract, instead of being purchased and delivered under
the contract with Fuller & Tiernan.
The Court of Claims held adversely to the petitioner and
dismissed his claim. He now appealed to this court.
Mr. Durant,for the appellant, contended that Shrewsbury,
by his contract, had an exclusive right to carry whatever
corn, up to 15,000,000 pounds, the military department of
the government sent from Fort Leavenworth to Fort Union;.
and that in making the new contract, by which the right to
deliver the same article at Fort Union was conceded to Fuller & Tiernan (he, Shrewsbury, not having yet carried the
15,000,000 pounds, nor so exhausted his right), the government had violated its contract with him ; that the arrangement with these parties just named was but a device to
evade the performance of their contract with him.
The learned counsel argued further, that any loan of supplies owned by the government to a private contractor, was
a matter against public policy and illegal ; and that the ftat
of such a loan in this case was a further proof of the truth
of the position already taken, that the contract with Fuller
& Tiernan was but a scheme to avoid the performance of
the contract made with Shrewsbury.
Mr. C. H. Hill, Assistant Attorney- General, contra.
Mr. Justice HUNT delivered the opinion of the court.
It can hardly be denied by the most zealous advocate that
the two contracts before us differ essentially in their nature
and form. The contract made with the claimant is a contract for the transportation of corn, at a price fixed, and in
quantity not to exceed 15,000,000 pounds. The sole duty

668

SHREWSBURY 0. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

of the claimant under this contract was to carry and deliver
the corn. He did not purchase it nor own it; he had nothing to do with its value or quality, and could neither make
nor lose by a fluctuation in the value of the corn.
The later contract with Fuller & Tiernan, on the other
hand, is strictly a contract for the purchase of 18,000 bushels
of corn, to be delivered at a place and within a time named,
and at a price specified, to be paid on the delivery and acceptance of the corn. In this case the corn is the property
of Fuller & Tiernan until delivered. They purchase it; they
own it. If the price of corn in the market varies essentially
they will make a profit or be losers, according as the direction of the variation shall be. Their contract is to furnish
the corn at Fort Union, New Mexico, and they are at liberty
to obtain it from any source they choose. They have no
claim for payment until delivery, and the United States have
no ownership of the corn until delivery and payment.
The foundation, however, of the claimant's demand rests
upon the identity of these dissimilar contracts. Having contracted to deliver to him for transportation all the corn of
which the quartermaster's department required transportation from Fort Leavenworth to Fort Union, he insists that
this contract is violated by a purchase by the subsistence
department of the United States, made at Fort Leavenworth,
of corn to be delivered by the seller of the same at Fort
Union. This view cannot be sustained. There is not only
not an identity, but there is not a similarity between the
contracts. The making of the latter contract, and its performance, was not a breach of the former.
It is suggested in the claimant's brief that the proceeding
of the United States in making the contract with Fuller &
Tiernan was a device unfairly to evade the performance of
the claimant's contract. No such fict is found by the Court
of Claims, and their findings of fact are taken by us to be
the facts in the case. We discover nothing in the case that
would have justified the Court of Claims in coming to such
conclusion. We should, at all times, be slow to sustain such
an imputation upon the good faith of the government.

Oct. 1873.]

SHREWSBURY

V.

UNITED STATES.

Opinion of the court.

The claimant makes complaint that the quartermaster
at Fort Leavenworth lent to Fuller & Tiernan a quantity of
corn to be used by them in performance of their contract of
sale with the commissary of subsistence; that the loan of
corn was illegal, the title still remaining in the United States,
and that this fact furnishes evidence that the second contract
was a device and a pretence only. We have only to say on
this branch of the case that the claimant is not invested with
authority to supervise the transactions of the different departments of the government. Whether the commissary of subsistence had authority to make the contract with Fuller,
whether there was an irregularity in the loan of corn to
Fuller, and what was the motive of these dealings, are matters to be investigated by the War Department. They cannot be challenged by the claimant. He rests his claim for
damages upon the making and performance of Fuller's contract. That contract has not been repudiated or objected to,
so far as we know, by the proper authority. The record
contains no evidence that any of the transactions are the
subject of censure by the government.
The supplies contracted to be transported by the claimant
were those of the quartermaster's department, that is, the
supplies to be used for and by the army. The corn purchased by the commissary of subsistence was sent to New
Mexico, not for the army, but to feed the Mexicans or
Indians. The duties of the quartermaster's department,
and of the department of subsistence, are separate and distinct. The departments are managed by different officers,
whose authority is confined to the matters connected with
their departments.
The contract to transport, in the case before us, relates to
supplies for the quartermaster's department. The arrangement which is set forth as a violation of that contract related
to supplies needed by the commissary of subsistence, a different subject entirely.
The duty of the commissary department, in general
terms, is to feed the army, to provide supplies for its subsistence. Transportation is not understood to be among it@

4370

HICKS V. KELSEY.

[Sup. CL

Statement of the case.

duties. That office belongs to the quartermaster's department. What the commissary provides to feed the army it
is the duty of the quartermaster to transport to such points
as may be needed. Hence, in the case before us, it was in
the ordinary course of business, the contract for transportation being already made, and further supplies being needed,
that the purchase of the same should devolve on the commissary department.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

HICKS V. KELSEY.

The mere change in an instrument or machine of one material into anothe-as of wood, or of wood strengthened with iron, into iron alone-is nct
"invention" in the sense of the Patent Acts, and therefore is not the
subject of a patent; the purpose and means of accomplishment, and form
and mode of operation of each instrument-the new as of the old-being
each and all the same. The mere fact that the new instrument is a better
one than the old one-requiring less repair, and having greater solidity
than the old one, does not alter the case. It does not bring the case out
of the category of more or less excellence of construction.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the Northern District
of Illinois; the case being this:
Hicks obtained a patent for an improved wagon-reach,
and filed a bill against Kelsey, charging infringement and
praying the usual relief. The defendant answered, denying
the novelty of the alleged invention, and also denying infringement.
The thing called a " wagon-reach "-that is to say, a pole
or shaft connecting the front and rear axles of wagons or
carriages, and having an upward crook or curve in it, so as
to allow the front wheel, which, when a carriage is turned,
goes against the reach if straight, to pass under it-had confessedly long been made, and was public property. These
had been made of wood, necessarily for the sake of strength
of a certain thickness, and consisted of one piece, strengthened by straps of iron attached to each side of the reach.

