478

STEAMBOAT COMPANY

v.

THE COLLECTOR.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

in the gift or bequest indicating a wish for the personal enjoynent thereof by the wife, such as a gift to the wife by
name, shall create a separate estate therein for her, and in
no case shall the personal acquisitions of the wife be subject
to the debts of the husband."*
The earnings of the wife are thus placed beyond the reach
of his creditors and of course of his assignees in bankruptcy.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

STEAMBOAT

COMPANY V. THE COLLECTOR.

1. Under the ninth section of the act of July 13th, 1866, laying on the
owners of steamboats a tax of " 21 per cent. of the gross receipts from
passengers," the owners of a night-boat which receives a certain sum for
the mere transportation of persons (that is to say, for their passage, or
barely being on the boat during its transit), and also a certain sum for
the use of berths and state-rooms (which berths and state-rooms it was
not obligatory on the passengers to take, or pay for, and which persons
who were willing to sit up all night did not take), is chargeable with 2j
per centum on the latter sort of receipts as well as on the former.
2. A .roviso to an existing act, held to have been repealed by an act which
"mended"
the former act, "by striking out all after the enacting
clause and inserting in lieu thereof, the following ;" this "following "
being in part an iteration of the words of the section amended, and in
part ziew enactments.
8. The proviso in the fourth section of the act of March 3d, 1865, exempting a certain class of steamboats from a tax of 2j per cent., which was
laid on ,.11 steamboats by the one hundred and third section of the act
of Jun, 30ih, 1864, fell by the enactment of the ninth section of the act
of Jul v 3.h, 1866, which "amended the first-named act by striking out
all af er the enacting clause and inserting in lieu thereof the following;"
this "following" being in part an iteration of the words of the section
of the ot of June 80th, 1864, amended, and in part new enactments.

ERROL to the Circuit Court for the Southern District of
New York.
The New Jersey Steamboat Company had a night-line of
steamboats which ran between New York and Albany, and
Code of Georgia in force in 1863, p. 338,

1701-2.

,Oct. 1873.]

STEAMBOAT COMPANY V. THE COLLECTOR.

479

Statement of the case.

which paid tonnage duty in conformity with the laws of the
United States. The boats were furnished with berths and
-state-rooms. But it was not obligatory on passengers going
on the boats to take either. They might pay for a passage
only, that is to say pay for the "bare right" to be on the
boat, while it was going from one place to the other, in
,which case they would have to sit up all night; or they
might pay in addition to the passage-money a certain sum,
in which case they had the privilege to occupy a berth or a
state-room. The accounts of passage-money received were
kept distinct from those of money received for berths or
state-rooms.
In this state of things, the collector of the United States
:at New York, asserting that he was justified by the ninth
section of an act of Congress of July 13th, 1866, hereinafter
set forth, demanded from the company the sum of $7972.66,
which he alleged to be a tax assessed at the rate of 21 per
.cent. on the company's "gross receipts from passengers"
,during the summer of 1869.
The sum just mentioned was thus made up:
For the transportation of passengers (passage-money), . $4831 99
3140 67
For berths or state-rooms,
$7972 66

If the government had a right to lay a tax on the company for passage-moneys, and the price of berths and staterooms let, it was not denied that the sums charged were the
right ones, but the company denied1st. That it was bound by the act relied on by the collector, or by any other act, to pay a tax on either item of its
%receipts.
2d. That, if it was bound by that act or any other act to
-pay the tax on the first item, it was bound to pay it on the
second.
Having, however, paid both on compulsion, and under
protest, it now, December, 1869, sued the collector to re,cover both, or at least the latter.
Whether the company was bound to pay any tax depended

430

STEAMBOAT COMPANY V. THE COLLECTOR.

ESup. CL

Statement of the case.

upon the fact whether the statute relied on by the collector
and giving generally a tax, had repealed a previous statute
relied on by the company, and discharging specifically from
tax all companies which paid a tonnage duty, which confessedly this company did pay.
The case as to these statutes was thus:
An act of July 14th, 1862,* entitled "An act increasing
temporarily the duties on imports and for other purposes,'
by its fifteenth section laid a tonnage tax of 10 cents per ton.
on all steamboats.
An act of June 30th, 1864,t to provide revenue to support the government, and to pay interest on the public debt
and for other purposes, by its one hundred and third section laid, in addition, "a tax of 2J per centum upon the;
gross receipts" of steamboats, "engaged or employed in,
transporting passengers or property for hire." It made certain other provisions about taxation.
An act of March 3d, 1865,1 by its fourth section increasedt
the tonnage duty on steamboats to 30 cents per ton, and by
a proviso to the section enacted,
" That the receipts of vessels paying tonnage duty shall not
be subject to the tax provided in section one hundred and three.
of 'An act to provide revenue,' &c., approved June 30th, 1864,
nor by any act amendatory thereof."ยง
12 Stat. at Large, 558.
j- 18 Id. 275.
1 Ib. 498.
As it is mentioned in the opinion of the court, infra, p. 491-2, that thissection four of the act of 1865, "contains other matters besides the proviso
in question," and as an argument is drawn from that fact, the whole section
is here given. It is thus:
"SEcTIoN 4. And be it further enacted, that section fifteen of an act entitled ' An.
act increasing temporarily the duties on imports, and for other purposes,' approved,
July 14th, 1862, be, and the same hereby is amended so as to impose a tax or tonnage.
duty of thirty cents per ton in lieu of ten cents, as therein mentioned.
"Provided, That the receipts of vessels paying tonnage duty shall not be subject
to the tax provided in section one hundred end three of an act to provide internal!
revenue to support the government, and to pay interest on the public debt, and for
other purposes, approved June 30th, 1864, nor by any act amendatory thereof.
"Provided further, That no ship, vessel, or steamer, having a license to trade between different districts of the United States, or to carry on the bank, whale, or other
fisheries, nor any ship, vessel, or steamer to or from any port or place in Mexico, the.
British Provinces of North America, or any of the West India Islands, or in all;
these trades, shall be required to pay the tonnage duty, contemplated by this aet,
more than once a year."

Oct. 1873.]

STEAMBOAT COMPANY V.THE COLLECTOR.

481

Statement of the case.

An act of July 13th, 1866, entitled "An act to reduce internal taxation, and to amend an act entitled, &c., approved
June 30th, 1864, and acts amendatory thereof," by its ninth
section,* amended the one hundred and third section of the
act of June 30th, 1864, "by striking out all after the enacting clause and inserting in lieu thereof the following."
It then inserted provisions laying the same tax of 21 per
centum of gross receipts on "steamboats, engaged or employed in the business of transporting passengers for hire,"
and made some other changes, more or less considerable, in
other matters provided for in this one hundred and third
section. Its seventieth section was thus:
"All provisions of any former act inconsistent with the provis.
ions of this act are hereby repealed."
I. The reader will perceive from what has been thus far
said that the question was whether this ninth section of the
act of July 13th, 1866, which "amended" the one hundred
and third section of the act of June 30th, 1864, " by striking
out all after the enacting clause and inserting in lieu thereof"
certain provisions in part identical with the old ones and in
part not so, did not only abrogate that section of that act,
but whether it swept away also with it, as something in its
nature inseparable from it, the proviso in the fourth section
of the act of March 3d, 1865, exempting steamers paying
tonnage from the tax.
The solution of this question requires a fuller exhibition
than that which, for the purpose of a general idea, is above
given, of the whole language of the two enactments; that
is to say, of the one hundred and third section of the act of
June 30th, 1864, and the ninth section of the act of the date
just given, which the collector contended had not only repealed this section of the act of June 30th, 1864, but annihilated-also the proviso in the fourth section of that of March
3d, 1865. The two sections of the two acts are here put in
parallel columns, words existing in one and not existing in
14 Stat. at Large, 185.
VOL. XVIII.

31

482

STEAMBOAT COMPANY V. THE COLLECTOR.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

the other being put in italics, and the parts of the two sec.
tions relating to the same matter being put as nearly opposite as may be to each other.
ACT OF JUNE 30, 1864.

ACT OF JULY 13, 1866.
SECTION 9. That section 103 (of act

of June 30, 1864) be amended by striking out all after the enacting clause,
and inserting in lieu thereof the folSECTION 103. That every person, lowing: That every person, firm,
firm, company, or corporation, own- company, or corporation owning or
ing or possessing, or having the care possessing, or having the care or
or management of, any railroad, ca- management of, any railroad, canal,
nal, steamboat, ship, barge, canal- steamboat, ship, barge, canal-boat,
boat, or other vessel, or any stage- or other vessel, or any stage-coach or
coach or other vehicle,
other vehicle, except hacks or carriages not running on continuous
routes,

engaged or employed in the business engaged or employed in the busiof transporting passengers or property ness of transporting passengers
for hire, or in transporting the mails
for hire, or in transport-of the United States,
ing the mails of the United States
upon contracts made prior to August
1st, 1866,
or any canal,
the water of which is used for mining
purposes, shall be subject to and pay shall be subject to and pay a tax of
a tax of two and one-half per centum two and one-half per cent. of the
gross receipts from passengers and
the gross receipts
mails
of such railroad, canal, steamboat, of such railroad, canal, steamboat,
.ship, barge, canal-boat, or other ves- ship, barge, canal-boat, or other vessel, or such stage-coach or other sel, or such stage-coach or other
vehicle: [" Provided, That this sec- vehicle:
tion shall not apply to those teams,
wagons, and vehicles used in the
transportation of silver ores from the
mines where the same are excavated
to the place where they are reduced
or worked: I*
Provided, That, the duty hereby im- Provided, That the tax hereby imposed shall not be charged upon re- posed shall not be assessed upon receipts for the transportation of per- ceipts for the transportation of persons or property, or mails between sons
or mails between
the United States and any foreign the United States and any foreign
* So amended March 3, 1866.

18 Stat. at Large, 478.

Oct. 1878.]

STEAMBOAT COMPANY V. THE COLLECTOR.

483

Statement of the case.
port; [" but such duty shall be assessed upon the transportation of persons and property from a port within
the United States through a foreign
territory to a port within the United
States, and shall be assessed upon and
collected from persons, firms, companies, or corporations within the
United States, receiving
such freight or transportation."]*

and any person or
persons, firms, companies, or corporations, owning, possessing, or having
the care or management of any tollroad, ferry, or bridge, authorized by
law to receive toll for the transit of
passengers, beasts, carriages, teams,
and freight of any description over
such toll-road, ferry, or bridge, shall
be subject to and pay a duty of three
per centem on the gross amount of
all their receipts of every description.
But when the gross receipts of any
such bridge or toll-road
shall not exceed
necessarily expended
to keep such bridge
or road in repair, no tax shall be
imposed on such receipts
the

amount

Provided,
That all such
persons, companies, and corporations shall,
have the right to add
the duty or tax imposed hereby to
their rates of fare whenever their
liability thereto may commence, any
limitations which may exist by law
or by agreement with any person or

port; but such tax shall be assess
ed upon the transportation of persons
from a port within
the United States through a foreign
territory to a port within the United
States, and shall be assessed upon
and collected from persons, firms,
companies, or corporations within
the United States, receiving hire or
pay for such
transportation
of persons and mails; and so much of
section 109 as requires returns to be
made of receipts hereby exempted from
tax when derived from transporting
propertyfor hire is hereby repealed:
Provided also, That any person or
persons, firms, companies, or corporations, owning, possessing, or having
the care or management of any tollroad, ferry, or bridge, authorized by
law to receive toll for the transit of
passengers, beasts, carriages, teams,
and freight of any description over
such toll-road, ferry, or bridge, shall
be subject to and pay a tax of three
per cent. of the gross amount of all
their receipts of every description.
But when the gross receipts of any
such bridge or toll-road, for and
during any term of twelve consecutive
calendar months, shall not exceed
the amount necessarily expended
during said term to keep such bridge
or road in repair, no tax shall be
assessed upon such receipts during the
month following any such term:
Provided further, That all such persons, companies, and corporations,
shall, until the 30th day of April,
1867, have the right to add the
tax imposed hereby to
their rates of fare whenever their
liability thereto may commence, any
limitations which may exist by law
or by agreement with any person or

* So amended March 3, 1865.

13 StaIt. at Large, 478.

484

STEAMBOAT COMPANY V. TIlE COLLECTOR.

[Sup.

Ct.

Statement of the case.
company which may have paid or be
liable to pay such fare to the contrary notwithstanding:

"And provided further, That no tax
under
this section shall be assessed upon
any person,
whose gross receipts do
not exceed one thousand dollars per
annum."I

company which may have paid or be
liable to pay such fare to the contrary notwithstanding.
And whenever the addition to any fare
shall amount only to the fraction of
one cent, any person or company liable
to the tax of two and a half per centum
may add to such fare one cent in lieu
of such fraction; and such person or
company shall keep for sale, at convenient points, tickets in packages of
twenty and multiples of twenty, to the
price of which only an amount equal
to the revenue tax shall be added:
And provided further, That no tax
under the foregoing provisions of this
section shall be assessed upon any
person, firm, company, or corporation, whose gross receipts do not
exceed one thousand dollars per annum:
And provided further, That all boats,
barges, andflats not used for carrying
passengers, nor propelled by steam or
sails, which are floated or towed by
tug-boats or horses, and used exclusively for carrying coal, oil, minerals,
or agricultural products to market,
shall be required hereafter, in lieu of
enrolment fees or tonnage tax, to pay
an annual special tax for each and
every such boat of a capacity exceeding
twenty-five tons, and not exceeding one
hundred tons, five dollars; and when
exceeding one hundred tons, as aforesaid, shall be required to pay ten dollars; and said tax shall be assessed
and collected as other special taxes
providedfor in this act.
SECTION 7.... Allprovisions of any

former act inconsistent with the provisions of this act, are hereby repealed.

The question was, did the proviso of the act of March 3d,
1865., exempting from the tax laid by section one hundred
and three of the act of 1864 (the act above, in the left-hand
column), on all steamers which paid a tonnage tax, remain

Oct. 1873.]

STEAMBOAT COMPANY V. THE COLLECTOR.

485

Argument for the appellant.

notwithstanding the ninth and seventieth sections of the
later act of July 13th, 1866 (the act above, in the right-hand
Column) ?
But the question was, perhaps, not dependent even upon
all that precedes; for finally came an act of Congress, of
July 14th, 1870,* which in its twenty-fifth section referred
to the proviso in the one hundred and third section of the
act of June 30th, 1864, as apparently then in force, and repealed it. This act ran thus:
" SECTION 25. And be it further enacted, that section fifteen
of the act approved July 14th, 1862, entitled ' An act increasing
temporarily the duties on imports, and for other purposes,' and section four of the act in amendment thereof, approved March 3d,
1865, be, and the same are hereby, so amended that no ship,
vessel, steamer, boat, barge, or fiat, belonging to any citizen of
the United States, trading from one port or point within the
United States to another port or point within the United States,
or employed in the bank, whale, or other fisheries, shall hereafter be subject to the tonnage tax or duty provided for in said
acts ; and the proviso in section one hundred and three of the
' act to provide revenue to support the government and to pay interest
on the public debt, and for other purposes,' approved June 30th,
1864, requiring an annual special tax to be paid by boats, barges,
and flats, is hereby repealed."

I. But if the act of 1866 was in force, unqualified by the
proviso, and if the company was "to be subject to and pay
a tax of 2J per cent. of the gross receipts from passengers,"
the next question was whether the $3140.67 came within
that enactment; this sum not having been received for passage, and being for another thing, to wit, for the right to
occupy and sleep in berths and state-rooms.
The court below was of opinion against the steamboat
company on both points, and, giving judgment for the collector, the company brought the case here.
Messrs. J. M. Carlisle and W. P. Prentice,for the appellant:
I. The proviso quoted in the act of March 3d, 1865, con.
16 Stat. at Large, 256.

486

STEAMBOAT COMPANY v. THE COLLECTOR.

[Sup. Ct

Argument for the appellant.

fessedly had not been repealed in express terms when this
cause of action arose. We assert that it had not been repealed by implication.
The general intention of the act of 1866, as expressed in
the title, was "to reduce internal taxation." This, as we
shall hereafter see, was also the real intention of the act.
It would have been very easy for Congress to repeal the
proviso in express terms. It did not do this. On the contrary, by its act of July 14th, 1870, it recognizes the existence and force of the proviso in section four of the act of
March 3d, 1865.
The act of July 13th, 1866 was amendatory of the act of
June 30th, 1864. But the act of March, 1865, had provided
that"The receipts of vessels paying tonnage tax shall not be subject to the tax provided in section one hundred and three of
'An act to provide internal revenue to support the government,
to pay interest on the public debt, and for other purposes,' approved June 30th, 1864, nor by any act amendatory thereof."
Did not the Congress of 1866 see the words which we
italicize? And if they did, why did they not expressly repeal the proviso if they meant to repeal it at all?
When Congress, in 1866, found the word "steamboat" in
the law written in the statute-book and simply left it there,
no change in the law was thereby intended or made.
After the passage of the act of 1866, as before, there were
only two statutes governing the subject, viz., the act of
1864, as amended, and the act of 1865. The act of 1864
laid the tax, and the act of 1865 exempted the plaintiff
from it. These statutes acted directly upon the taxpayer;
but the act of 1866 acted only upon the act of 1864, changing some of its provisions, but not affecting steamboat
companies.
The matter under consideration is one relating to the
revenue system, a great system, made up of many acts,
many amendments, many repeals, &c. The system is like a
fabric dovetailed, patched, and pieced all over. Peculiarly

Oct. 1873.]

STEAMBOAT COMPANY V. THE COLLECTOR.

487

Argument for the appellant.

applicable, therefore, to the matter in hand are certain rules,
which apply to cases of implied repeal generally, and where
there is less need of them. Some of them are these:
1. Wherever two acts of the legislature are susceptible
of a construction which will give effective operation to both
without doing violence to either, it is incumbent on the
court to search for some allowable means to give them such
construction.*
2. A repeal of all acts inconsistent with the repealing
statute does not affect a statute, not especially mentioned,
and which relates to the same subject-matter, and which is
not inconsistent with the repealing act.t
3. An express law, creating certain special rights and
privileges, is held never to be repealed by implication by
any subsequent law couched in general terms, nor by any
express repeal of all laws inconsistent with such general
law, unless the language be such as clearly to indicate the
intention of the legislature to effect such repeal.1
4. A statute amending a prior act does not repeal an intermediate statute, limiting the operation of such prior
statute, unless there is a new inconsistency between the
amended statute and that limiting its operation. There is
no new inconsistency between the amended statute, i. e., the
section one hundred and three of the act of 1864, as amended
in section nine of the act of 1866, and the act of March 3d,
1865. The tax is the same. Only one class, i. e., vessels
that have paid the tonnage tax, are exempted from it; other
vessels, not enrolled, are in another class; and the same
reason exists for the same law in the same language. Thus
only can the intention of Congress, expressed in the title to
the law of July 13th, 1866, to reduce internal taxation, be carried out.
Double taxes, such as were claimed of the steamboat company, are not favored.
Attorney-General v. Brown, 1 Wisconsin, 613; Harford v. United
States, 8 Craneh, 109.
t People v. Durick, 20 California, 94; Ely v. Holton, 15 New York, 696
$ The State v. Branin, 3 Zabriskie, 484; The State v. Minton, Ib. 629.

488

STEAMBOAT COMPANY V. THE COLLECTOR.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the appellant.

Look, too, in accordance with the canons of construction
in statutes, at "the occasion and necessity of the law, the
defect in former laws, and the designed remedy."
In 1861 and 1862, when we were just entering on the war
of the rebellion, the necessity was felt of increasing the revenue, and the titles of the various acts indicate this, but in
1866, when the rebellion was completely suppressed, the
government was in less need of money, and the act of July
18th expresses in its title its object, " to reduce taxation."
Again. The act of March 3d, 1865, with the proviso of
its section four, equalized the taxation of steamboats to that
on other property, and no intention to repeal it can be discovered in subsequent legislation, but the contrary. Thus,
in 1862, a tonnage duty of ten cents per ton was laid, and
in 1864 another tax on steamboats was laid, by the act of
June 30th, 1864, section one hundred and three, the section
in question, viz., on the receipts of vessels. It is apparent
that, as carriers, the steamboats had thus to pay double
taxes. On the 3d of March, 1865, by act of that date, this
double taxation was remedied. The tonnage duty was increased to thirty cents per ton, in section four; and vessels
paying tonnage duty were exempted from the tax under
section one hundred and three of the act of 1864.
II. The claim of the collector fbr $8140.67, the tax collected from the receipts from state-rooms and berths, is denied on independent grounds.
Whatever tax the statute does lay, it lays upon persons
owning steamboats "engaged in the business of transport.
ing passengers for hire." The statute says the tax shall
not be assessed upon "receipts for the transportationof persons between the United States and any foreign port," but
"shall be assessed upon the transportationof persons from a
port within the United States through a foreign territory to
a port within the United States." The entire section relates
solely to the subject of transportation. The tax is meant by
the statute to be assessed upon gross receipts from passengers;
that is, from passengers as such. In other words, it is assessed upon money paid for transportation. State-room re.

(Oct. 1873.]

STEAMBOAT COMPANY V. THE COLLECTOR.

489

Opinion of the court.

eipts are therefore not "receipts
the meaning of the act.

from passengers" within

Mr. G. H. Williams, Attorney- General, and Mr. C. H. Hill,
Assistant Attorney- General, contra.
Mr. Justice SWAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiffs in error instituted the suit to recover back
the amount of a tax which they allege was exacted from
them without warrant of law. They were the owners of a
night-line of steamers running between the cities of New
York and Albany. The tax was upon the gross receipts
from their passengers. Payment was required by the col'lector under the ninth section of the act of July 13th, 1866.*
The facts, agreed by the parties, make prima facie a clear
-case of liability within the language of this law. The tax
was exacted only to the amount prescribed and upon a subject specified. There is no complaint as to either of these
particulars. If this were the whole case there could be no
,controversy between the parties, and, doubtless, the case
'would not be here. But the plaintiffs in error insist that,
,by reason of certain provisions in the acts of June 30th,
1864, and of March 3d, 1865, the ninth section of the act of
1866 does not apply to receipts from passengers upon their
steamers.
The one hundred and third section of the act of 1864t
imposed a tax of 21 per cent. of the gross receipts from pas-sengers, freights, and the transportation of the mails, earned
by steamboats within the category of those of the plaintiffs
in error.
A proviso in the fourth section of the act of 18651 de.clared "that the receipts of vessels paying tonnage duty
shall not be subject to the tax provided in section one hun
dred and three of the act of 1864, nor by any act amendatory thereof."
The steamers of the plaintiffs in error paid such tonnage
* 14 Stat. at Large, 135.

t- 13 Star. at Large, 275.

$Ib. 498.

490

STEAMBOAT COMPANY

V. THE

COLLECTOR.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

duty. Under these acts they were entitled to the exemption,
claimed.
But the ninth section of the act of 1866 declared that the.
one hundred and third section of the act of 1864 should "be,
amended by striking out all after the enacting clause andi
inserting in lieu thereof the following." It then proceeds totax the receipts from passengers and for carrying the mails
under contracts made prior to the taking effect of the act,,
as was done by the section amended; but it wholly omits
the tax upon freights and upon receipts for carrying the,
mails under contracts thereafter made, to which they would
have been liable under that section, standing alone, before.
it was amended. Three things were taxed by the originalb
section, and but one of them, with the limited exception as
to the mails, by the section which superseded it and took its.
place. The seventieth section declares "that this act shall!
take effect, where not otherwise provided, on the 1st day of
August, 1866, and all provisions of any former act inconsistent with the provisions of this act are hereby repealed."
The one hundred and third section of the act of 1864 was
thus superseded and annulled. The proviso in the fourth
section of the act of 1865 fell with it. The latter referred to.
the former. When the former ceased to exist there wasnothing left for the latter to operate upon. The ninth section was much more limited in the taxes which it imposed'
than the one hundred and third. The two sections were the
same neither in letter nor substance.
The tonnage duty in question was imposed by the fifteenth,
section of the act of July 14th, 1862.* It was thirty cents,
per ton, and was to be paid once a year. The exemptions in
the ninth section must have exceeded it largely in amount.
It may well be that, by reason of these remissions, it was
deemed proper by Congress that the tax upon the receipts
from passengers, as well as the tonnage duty, should thereafter be paid, and that the exemption as to the former, given,
by the act of 1865, should no longer continue. Such, in our
12 Stat. at Large, 558.

Oct. 1873.]

STEAMBOAT COMPANY V. THE COLLECTOR.

491

Opinion of the court.

judgment, was the intent and effect of the ninth section of
the act of 1866. It is said that the proviso in the act of 1865
is not expressly repealed. There was no necessity for an
express declaration upon the subject. It was superseded by
the abrogation of the one hundred and third section. And
the seventieth section of the act of 1866 in terms repealed
"all the provisions in any former act inconsistent with the
provisions of this act." The ninth section of this act declares that the tax here in question shall be paid. The proviso in the act of 1865 declares that it shall not be paid.
Can there be a clearer inconsistency than that which subsists between these provisions? If Congress intended that
the exemption should continue under the act of 1866 as it
was under the act of 1864, it would have been easy to say so,
and, doubtless, this would have been done.
It is insisted that the twenty-fifth section of the act of July
14th, 1870,* recognizes the continuing existence and force
of the proviso in question. That section is as follows:
"1SECTION 25. And be it further enacted, that section fifteen of the act approved July 14th, 1862, entitled 'An act increasing temporarily the duties on imports, and for other
purposes,' and section four of the act in amendment thereof,
approved March 3d, 1865, be, and the same are hereby, so
amended that no ship, vessel, steamer, boat, barge, or flat,
belonging to any citizen of the United States, trading from
one port or point within the United States to another port
or point within the United States, or employed in the bank,
whale, or other fisheries, shall hereafter be subject to the
tonnage tax or duty provided for in said acts; and the proviso in section one hundred and three of the ' Act to provide
revenue to support the government and to pay interest on
the public debt, and for other purposes,' approved June 30th,
1864, requiring an annual special tax to be paid by boats,
barges, and flats, is hereby repealed."
This section suggests several remarks.
(1.) Section four of the act of 1865 contains other matters
16 Stat. at Large, 269.

492

STEAMBOAT COMPANY V. THE COLLECTOR.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Bradley, J., dissenting.

besides the proviso in question. There is a reference in the
twenty-fifth section to one of those other matters, but none
to the proviso.
(2.) The abrogation of the tonnage duty as thus declared,
may have been because of the imposition of the tax here in
question by the ninth section of the act of 1866, in addition
to tonnage duty. It was a return to the liberal spirit manifested by the act of 1865, but instead of remitting the tax
upon passengers and retaining the tonnage duty, it remits
the latter and retains the former. It is not to be supposed
that Congress intended to give up both. This legislation
gives no support to the views of the plaintiffs in error.
(3.) The reference to the one hundred and third section
of the act of 1864 involves an error of fact. That section
contains no such proviso or provision as is mentioned, and,
as before shown, it was wholly superseded by the act of
1866. The proviso referred to is in the ninth section of the
last-named act. The reference to it does not in any wise
affect the case before us.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

Mr. Justice BRADLEY, dissenting:
I dissent from the judgment of the court in this case.
The act of March 3d, 1865, exempted vessels which paid
tonnage duty from paying the 2 per cent. on gross receipts
imposed by the one hundred and third section of the Internal
Revenue Act of 1864. The act of 1866 amended this section
by exacting the 22 per cent. on receipts from passengers and
mails only, and not on receipts from freight. A few other
minor alterations were made. Such an amendment as this,
in my judgment, cannot have the effect of repealing the exemption granted to vessels paying tonnage duty. It is contended that the mode of making the amendment makes a
difference, namely, by striking out all after the enacting
clause of the one hundred and third section and re-enacting
it with the modification alluded to. It seems to me that the
substance rather than the form should govern the construetion. The several laws on the subject of internal revenue

Oct. 1873.]

CLARKE V. BOoRMAN'S EXECUTORS.

493

Syllabus.

constitute one system, all in pari materia; and if modifications of certain sections by amendment are to have the effect
of making those sections absolute law, discharged from all
qualifications and exemptions created by other parts of the
system, the result will be to derange the harmony of the!
system as a whole. If farm products generally are taxed
one per cent., but by a special law cotton is taxed ten dollars,
a bale, and by another special law wheat is taxed twenty
cents a bushel, can it be that an alteration of the section
taxing farm products generally, from one per cent. to two,
per cent., will abrogate the special tax on cotton and wheat ?
It is a rule that special laws are not abrogated by general
ones, unless the intent to do it be very clear. It seems to?
me that this rule is lost sight of in the judgment of the.
court.

CLARKE V. BOORMAN'S EXECUTORS.
1. The construction of a will on the question of estate in fee, or life estate.
with vested remainder, left undecided, with comments on the inefficiency
of rules of decision and decided cases as guides.
2. A violation of trust growing out of a mistaken construction of a will by
the executors, unaccompanied by fraudulent intent, is within the ten
years statute of limitation of the State of New York concerning actions
for relief in cases of trust not cognizable by courts of law.
8. The court expresses itself as inclined to the opinion that such a case is not
within the protection of the statute which allows bills for relief on the
ground of fraud, to be filed within six years after the discovery of thefraud.
4. Where the party interested in his lifetime had notice of all the facts.
which constituted the ground of fraud alleged in the bill, and for eight.
years that he lived after the cause of action accrued to him, with noticr
of his rights and of the whole transaction, brought no suit nor set up.
any claim, his heirs are not entitled to the benefit of this exemption
from the bar of the statute on the ground of recent discovery of the.
fraud.
6. When a trustee has closed his trust relation to the property and to the.
cestui que trust, and parted with all control of the property, the statute$,
of limitation run in his favor, notwithstanding it is an express trust.
6. The general doctrines of courts of equity concerning lapse of time, laches,.

