628

ST.

CLAIR COUNTY

V. LOVINGSTON.

[Sup. CL

Opinion of the court.

In this case the tax sought to be avoided was assessed
against the Chicago, Rock Island, and Pacific Railroad Company, and the decree rendered discharges the company from
the payment of this tax. The corporation, therefore, should
have been made a party to the suit, and as it was not, the
demurrer should have been sustained.
DECREE REVERSED, and the cause remanded for further
proceedings,
IN CONFORMITY WITH
THIS OPINION.

ST. CLAIR COUNTY V. LOVINGSTON.
No judgment is final which does not terminate the litigation between the
parties. A judgment reversing the judgment of an inferior court, and
remanding the cause for such other and further proceedings as to law
and justice shall appertain, does not do this. A writ of error to such a
judgment dismissed, on the authority of Moore v. Robbins, supra, p. 668.

to the Supreme Court of Illinois.
The county of St. Clair, in Illinois, sued Lovingston in the
Circuit Court of the county, and got judgment against him.
The Supreme Court of Illinois reversed this judgment, and
remanded the cause "for such other and further proceedings
as to law and justice shall appertain." To that judgment
the county took this writ of error.
ERROR

Mr. G. Koerner, for the plaintiff in error; Mr. W. H. Underwood, contra
Mr. Justice STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
The writ of error in this case must be dismissed on the
authority of Moore v. Robbins, decided at this term. The
judgment of the Supreme Court of the State cannot be regarded as a final judgment in the sense in which the term
was used in the Judiciary Acts. No judgment is final which
does not terminate the litigation between the parties to the

Oct. 1873 ]

GRAY v. ROLLO.
Statement of the case.

suit. The issue between the parties may be again tried in
the Circuit Court, and another judgment may be recovered
which may be removed to the Supreme Court for revision.
Consequently, then, there has been no final determination
of the case.
WRIT DISMISSED.

GRAY V. ROLLO.
1. Set-off is enforced in equity only where there are mutual debts or mutual
credits, or where there exists some equitable consideration or agreement
between the parties which would render it unjust not to allow a set-off.
2. Where a bankrupt owes a debt to two persons jointly, and holds a joint
note given by one of them and a third person, the two claims are not
subject to set-off under the Bankrupt Act, being neither mutual debts
nor (without more) mutual credits.
8. Where one of twojoint debtors becomes bankrupt, it seems that the creditor msy set-off the debt against his separate indebtedness to the bankrupt, because each joint debtor is liable to him in solido for the whole
debt; but, if this be conceded, it does not follow that if one of two joint
creditorsbecomes bankrupt, the common debtor may set-off against the
debt a separate claim which he has against the bankrupt, for this would
be unjust to the other joint creditor.
4. A. and B. were joint makers of certain notes, which were transferred to
an insurance company. B. and C. held policies in this company which
became due in consequence of loss by fire. The company being bankrupt, its assignee claimed the full amount of the notes from A. and B.
B. sought to set-off against his half of the liability the claim due to him
and C. on the policies of insurance, the latter consenting thereto. Held,
that this was not a case for set-off within the Bankrupt Act, the two
obligations having been contracted without any reference to each other.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the Northern District
of Illinois; the case being thus:
The Bankrupt Act enacts :*
"That in all cases of mutual debts or mutual credits between
the parties, the account between them shall be stated, and one
14 Stat. at Large, 626,

20.

