Oct. 1873.]

TACEY V. IRWIN.
Statement of the case.

TAOEY V. IRWIN.
Under the act of June 7th, 1862, "for the collection of the direct tax in insurrectionary districts," &c., as construed in Bennett v. Hunter (9 Wallace, 326), a tender by a relative of the owner of the tax due upon
property advertised for sale is a sufficient tender. And if the tax commissioners have, by an established general rule announced and a uniform
practice under it, refused to receive the taxes due unless tendered by the
owner in person, even a formal offer by another to pay is unnecessary.
It is enough if a relative of the owner " went to the office of the coinmissioners to see after the payment of the tax on the property, but
made no formal offer to pay because it was in effect waived by the commissioners, they declining to receive any tender unless made by the
owner in person."
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Eastern District of
Virginia; the case as found by that court being thus:
Under an act of Congress approved June 7th, 1862, and
entitled "An act for the collection of the direct tax in insurrectionary districts," &c., certain direct taxes which had
been laid by former law, were specifically charged on every
parcel of land in the rebellious States, according to divisions and valuations in the act prescribed. And in default
of payment of the tax the statute ordered the land to be advertised for sale and sold. The act, however, allowed "the
owner or owners of the land" to pay the tax to certain tax
commissioners mentioned, and to take a certificate therefor,
by virtue of which the lands should be discharged of the
tax.
In 1864, one Irwin owned a piece of land, subject to this
statute, in Alexandria, Virginia, he himself being away.
The taxes on it being unpaid, the commissioners gave notice
that they would be at theii uffice in Alexandria at certain
times named, to receive the direct tax assessed and fixed by
law on the lots and tracts of land in Alexandria, under and
by virtue of the act of Congress abovementioned. But the
commissioners adopted a rule not to receive the taxes due
on property advertised for sale, unless tendered by the owner
in person. This rule was adopted in pursuance of instruc-

550

TACEY V. IRWIN.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

tions from some officer of the Treasury Department, and
was so rigidly enforced that neither friend, relative, nor agent
was allowed to pay for the absent owner; their applicationis
to pay and save the property from sale being uniformly re7
fused by the commissioners, under the operations of the rule
in question. After the premises belonging to Irwin were
advertised for sale, one of his relatives went to the office of
the commissioners to see after the payment of the tax on
the property, but made no formal offer to pay because it was
in effect waived by the commissioners; they declining to
recognize any tender, unless made by the owner in person.
The land was accordingly sold by the commissioners as land
on which the taxes had not been paid, and was bought by
one Tacey. Hereupon Irwin brought suit against him to
recover it, and by judgment of the court upon the preceding case, did recover it. To reverse that judgment this writ
of error was taken.
Mr. Willoughby, in support of the ruling below, relied on Ben.
nett v. lHunter,* where a tenant of the owner went and tendered payment of the tax on certain lands sold, the owner
being away, which tender was held by this court in the case
cited to be sufficient.
Mr. S. F. Beach, contra, sought to distinguish this case
from that, since here there had been no tender at all; and no
specific refusal.
Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
The case is not distinguishable in principle from that of
Bennett v. Hfunter. In that case it was insisted in support
of the tax deed, that the right to pay the tax before sale was
limited to the owner in person, and could not be exercised
by the tenant in possession who had offered to pay it. This
position was not sustained, but the court held that the payment of the tax which the act requires to be made by the
* 9 Wallace, 326.

Oct. 1873.]

TACEY V. IRWIN.
Opinion of the court.

owner, need not, necessarily, be made by him in person. It
is enough, if it be made by any person for him, on the
ground that an act done by one for the benefit of another is
valid if ratified, either expressly or by implication, and that
such ratification will be presumed in furtherance of justice.
It is difficult to see how, upon the case as found here, the
sale can be sustained. The law does not require the doing
of a nugatory act, as would have been a formal tender of
payment, after the action of the commissioners, declining to
receive the taxes from any person in behalf of the owner.
Bennett v. Hunter decides that the owner has the right to
pay, either in person or through any one not disavowed by
him, who is willing to act for him. This right the commissioners, by the rule which they established and the uniform
practice under it, effectually denied. The friends and agents
of absent owners were informed that it was useless to interpose in their behalf, and that unless the owner appeared in
person and discharged the tax, the property would be sold.
This was equivalent to saying that a regular tender by any
other person would be refused. While the law gave the
owner the privilege of paying by the hands of another, the
commissioners confined the privilege to a payment by the
owner himself. This was wrong, and was a denial of the
opportunity to pay accorded to the owner by the act, and
the lands were, therefore, not delinquent when they were
sold.
If an offer in a particular case to pay the tax before sale,
and refused by the commissioners because not made by the
owner in person, renders a subsequent sale by the commissioners void,* surely a general rule anbounced by the commissioners, that in all cases such an offer would be refused,
must produce the same effect. Such a rule of necessity dispenses with a regular tender in any case. In the absence
of any proof to the contrary, it is a legal presumption that
the tax in this case, though not actually offered, would have
been offered and paid before sale but for the known refusal
Bennett v. Hunter, supra.

TOWN OF OHIO V. MARCY.

[
[Sup.
Ct.

Statement of the case.

of the commissioners to accept any offer when not made by
the owner in person.
If so, the commissioners were not authorized to make the
sale in controversy, and the judgment must be
AFFIRMED.

TOWN OF OHIO V. MARCY.
A judgment affirmed because there was no question of law which this court
could consider, in a case where a trial by jury was waived in writing
and the case submitted to the court, where the finding of the court was
general; where the bill of exceptions embodied all the testimony in the
case, but where no exception was taken to the admission or rejection of
testimony or to any ruling of the court on the trial, and where no question was raised in the case on the pleadings.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Northern District of
Illinois.
Marcy brought assumpsit in the court below against the
town of Ohio, in Illinois, on the interest warrants of certain
bonds which the said town had issued, and which warrants
it neglected to pay. ' The parties waived a jury in writing
and submitted the case to the court. The finding of the
court was general, namely, " That upon the matters submitted, the court finds the issue for the plaintiff, and assesses
his damages at the sum of $4286.60." Judgment was rendered fbr this sum.
A bill of exceptions embodied all the testimony in the
case, but no exception was taken to the admission or rejection of evidence, or to any ruling of the court on the trial.
The town brought the case here on error. No question was
raised on the pleadings.

Messrs. X. T. Peters and J. B. Hawley, for the plaintiff in
error; Messrs. Paddock and Ide, contra.
Mr. Justice MILLER announced the judgment of the

