Oct. 1873.]

HENSHAW v. BISSELL.
Syllabus.

HENSHAW ET AL. v. BISSELL.
1. In an action of ejectment, where both parties claim the premises in controversy under patents of the United States issued upon a confirmation
of grants of land in California made by the former Mexican government, both of which patents cover the premises, the inquiry of the court
must extend to the character of the original grants, and the controversy
,can only be settled by determining which of these two gave the better
Tight to the premises.
2. In determining such controversy a grant of land identified by specific
boundaries, or having such descriptive features as to render its identification a matter of absolute certainty, gives a better right to the premises than a floating grant, although such floating grant be first surveyed
and patented.
. Semble, that as between two floating grants of quantity within the same
general tract which is sufficiently large to satisfy both, where neither
grantee had received official delivery of possession under the former
government, and where, as a consequence, there was no measurement
or severance of the claim of either from the public domain, the party
whose claim is first surveyed and patented will hold the better right to
other party will be comthe land covered by his patent, and that the
of that patent.
pelled to have his claim located outside
4. The present case distinguished from cases in this court, and in the Supreme Court of California, in which imperfect or equitable claims, or
interests arising since the acquisition of the country, were set up against
the legal title held under patents.
6. A survey under a grant approved by the District Court of the United
States under the act of June 14th, 1860, is conclusive as against adverse
claimants under floating grants.
,6. Whilst proceedings are pending before the tribunals of the United States
for the confirmation of claims to land under grants of the former Mexican government, the statute of limitations of California does not run
against the right of the claimants to the land subsequently confirmed
to them. That statute only begins to run against the title perfected
under the legislation of Congress from the date of its consummation.
"7. For the application of the doctrine of equitable estoppel, such as will prevent a party from asserting his legal rights to property, there must be
some intended deception in the conduct or declarations of the party to
be estopped, or such gross negligence on his part as to amount to constructive fraud. Accordingly, when a claimant under a Mexican grant
located his claim on land different from that which was finally surveyed
and patented to him, and announced to others that his claim covered
the land thus selected, but the government interfered and located the
claim elsewhere, held, that he was not estopped from asserting a right to
-the premises surveyed and patented to him.

HENSHAW V. BISSELL.

[Slip. Ct.

Statement of the case.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of California.
Bissell brought ejectment in the court below against
Henshaw and others, to recover one league square of land,.
situated in the county of Butte, in the State of California.
The action was commenced May 15th, 1857, and was tried'
by the court without a jury by stipulation of the parties.
The material facts of the case were as follows:
On the 24th of March, 1852, one Larkin, pursuant to the
provisions of the act of Congress of March 3d, 1851, entitled"An act to ascertain and settle private land-claims in the'
State of California," filed a petition with the board of land
commissioners created under the act, praying a confirmation
of a claim made by him to a tract of land containing four
square leagues of land, situated in the county of Butte, in,
the State of California, his claim being founded on a Mexican
grant made by Governor Micheltorena to Charles William
Flugge on the 21st day of February, A.D. 1844, upon his
petition bearing date on the 22d of December, A. D. 1843.
Flugge, in his petition, described the land solicited as "situated on the western side of Feather River, and stretchingalong ('sobre') the said river from 390 33' 45" northern,
latitude, to 390 48' 45", and forming on this line a squareone league in breadth. It is called Boga, as it is rendered
manifest by the adjoining sketch." The grant described
the land granted as " consisting of five sitios ganado mayor
[square leagues], situate on the westerly side of Feather"
River, in the centre of which there is a piece of land called
Boga, the first boundary of the said land beginning at 390
33' 45" degrees north latitude, as appears from the corresponding plan." The grant was made subject to the approval
of the Departmental Assembly, and was approved by that
body June 13th, 1845. The map accompanying the petition,.
called " sketch " or "plan " in the translation, in the record,
lays down the line of latitude intended as the first boundary
of the tract, and designates it by the degree of latitude
specified in the petition and grant. The designation of this
line turned out to be inaccurate; the degree of latitude mentioned being several leagues farther north. There was,.

Oct. 1873.]

HENSHAW

v.

BISSELL.

Statement of the case.

however, no difficulty in fixing the line intended on the surface of the earth by measurement, from the junction of the
two rivers Sacramento and Feather, which was several
leagues south, and which junction was marked by a line
designated by a degree of latitude containing a similar
error.
The natural objects indicated on the map-Feather River,
which was the eastern boundary, and a creek called Ioncut,
emptying into Feather River, and three conspicuous peaks in
the immediate neighborhood called "The Three Buttes,"rendered the identification of the tract a matter easy to any
surveyor. Notwithstanding these natural objects Larkin,
the claimant, who had acquired the interest of the grantee,
contended that the parallel of latitude designated should
govern the location of the land, and accordingly he selected
the land he desired under the grant, several leagues farther
north than the line actually intended, and finally adopted by
the government. The surveyor-general of California made
a survey of the tract for the information of the land commission before confirmation, and in that survey he committed a similar error. Subsequent to the confirmation he
made another survey following substantially the preliminary
one. With both the surveys thus made Larkin was satisfied, and he stated to persons inquiring, that his claim under
the grant covered the land selected by him and thus surveyed. The grant was confirmed by the board on the 17th
of July, 1855; and an appeal from its decree having been
taken by the United States, the attorney-general gave notice
that the appeal would not be prosecuted; and on the 9th of
February, 1857, the appeal was dismissed by the District
Court, and the claimant allowed to proceed upon the decree
of the board as upon a final decree.
The survey of the tract made by the surveyor-general of
California, as above stated, under this decree, was set aside
by the Commissioner of the General Land Office, and a new
survey ordered. A new survey was accordingly made, and
being objected to was ordered into the District Court for
VOL. XVI1I.

17

HENSHAW

v. BISSELL.

(Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

examination under the act of June 14th, 1860.* This act
authorizes the court "to make an order requiring any survey
of a private land claim . . . to be returned into it for exanimation and adjudication," and makes it" the duty of the
surveyor-general to transmit said survey and plat forthwith
to said court." It requires " that before proceeding to take
the testimony or to determine on the validity of any objection so made to the survey and location as aforesaid, the said
courts shall cause notice to be given by public advertisement, or in some other form to be prescribed by their rules,
to all parties in interest, that objection has been made to such
survey and location, and admonishing all parties in interest to
intervene for the protection of such interest." It enacts further
that "on hearing the allegations and proofs the court shall
.render judgment thereon; and if, in its opinion, the location
and survey are erroneous, it is hereby authorized to set aside
and annul the same, or correct and modify it; and it is
hereby made the duty of the surveyor-general, on being
served with a certified copy of the decree of said court,
forthwith to cause a new survey and location to be made,
or to correct and reform the survey already made, so as to
conform to the decree of the District Court, to whiich it shall
be returned for confirmation and approval." An appeal is
given to the Supreme Court.
Under this act such proceedings were had that on the 15th
of January, 1863, a new survey was approved by decree of
the District Court, which became final, June 26th, 1865, by
dismissal of an appeal taken therefrom. A patent of the
United States was issued for the land, in accordance with
this survey, to the claimant, October 5th, 1865. The plaintiff deraigned by due conveyances from! the heirs of the
patentee an undivided three-fourths interest in the premises patented, which include the land in controversy.
On the 19th of March, 1852, Dionisio Fernandez, Maximo
Fernandez, J. Beeden, and W. R. Basham, filed a petition,
12 Stat. at Large, 88.

Oct. 18713. ]

O ENSIIAW v. BISSELL.
Statement of the case.

under the act of 1851, with the board of land commissioners,
praying a confirmation of a claim made by them to a tract
containing four square leagues of land situated in the county
of Butte, and State of California, their claim being founded
on a Mexican grant made by Pio Pico, governor of California, to Maximo and Dionisio Fernandez, on the 12th day
of June, A. D. 1846. The grant describes the land granted
as " a tract of unoccupied land, in the vicinity of the river
Sacramento, bounded on the north by the slopes [faldas] of
the Sierra Nevada; on the south by John A. Sutter's lands,
and on the east by Feather River," consisting of four square
leagues, and refers to a plan or map accompanying the petition of the grantees. This map represents the land as lying
on Feather River, with its northern boundary resting on the
faldas of the Sierra Nevada mountains, but with no other
descriptive features to indicate its northern or southern
boundary. The grant was subject to the approval of the
Departmental Assembly, but never received such approval.
The country passed into the possession of the United States
in the following month, July 7th, 1846. Between the slopes
or base of the mountains and the line of Sutter's land many
leagues intervened.
The grant was confirmed by the board of land commissioners July 17th, 1855, and its decree was affirmed by the
District Court on appeal March 2d, 1857. The attorneygeneral having given notice that no further appeal would
be prosecuted, the District Court entered an order, on the
ninth of the same month, that the claimants be allowed to
proceed under the decree of March 2d as a final decree.
A survey of the tract confirmed was made under the directions of the surveyor-general, and was approved by him
on the 29th of May, 1857. This survey was also approved
by the Commissioner of the General Land Office; and on
the 14th of October, 1857, a patent of the United States, in
accordance with it, was issued to the claimants. This patent
covers the premises in controversy, and the defendants have
acquired the interests of the patentees, and have been in
the open, continuous, exclusive, and adverse possession of

HENSHAW V.

BISSELL.

[SuAP. Ct.

Argument for the plaintiffs in error.

the premises since 1852, claiming title under the Mexican
grant, proceedings for confirmation, and patent of the United
States.
The statute of limitations of California, passed in 1863,
enacted that no action for the recovery of real property, or
its possession, should be maintained, unless the plaintiff, his
ancestor, predecessor, or grantor was seized or possessed of
the premises within five years before the commencement of
the action, with a proviso in substance to the effect that parties claiming real property under title derived from the
Spanish or Mexican governments, or the authorities thereof,
which had not been finally confirmed by the United States,
or its legally constituted authorities, should be limited to
five years after its passage, within which to bring an action
for the recovery of the property or its possession, but if the
title had been thus finally confirmed, the parties should be
subject to the same limitations as though they derived their
title from any other source, that is, they should have five
years from such final confirmation. The statute, in another
section, declared that by final eonfirmation was meant the
patent of the United States, or the final determination of
the official survey of the land under the act of Congress of
June 14th, 1860. The proviso has since then been repealed,
but before the repeal the present action was brought.
The Circuit Court gave judgment for the plaintiff for the
premises, and the defendants brought the case to this court
on writ of error for review.
Messrs. R. . and Q. Corwine, for the plaintiffs in error:
1st. The patent of the United States first issuing to Henshaw and the others gave to them paramount title, at law
and in equity, to the land in controversy. This is settled in,
Beard v. Federy,* Waterman v. Smith,t Moore v. Wilkinson,T
Stark v. Barrelt,ยง Estrada v. Murphy,1j Leese v. Clark, and
Biddle Boggs v. Merced Mining Co.**
3 Wallace, 479.
16 Id. 366.
14 Id. 862.

t 18 California, 407.
1119 Id. 260.

lb. 488.
18 Id. 587.

Oct. 1873.]

HENSItAW V. BISSELL.
Opinion of the court.

2d. The act of June 14th, 1860, providing as it does that
a citizen may be deprived of his property by a proceeding
to which he is not a party, is unconstitutional, and the proceedings of the District Court in the case of Larkin, after
the order dismissing the case, and remitting it and the parties to the board of land commissioners for final action, to
wit, on the 9th of February, 1857, were void and inoperative, and do not amount to an estoppel against the defendants. The whole subject of surveys is under the control of
the political department of the government, and not subject
to management by the courts.
3d. The statute of limitations of California, which was
pleaded by the defendants, is a complete bar to this action,
and should have been so found by, the Circuit Court.
4th. The conduct of Larkin, from whom the plaintiff deraigns title with respect to the land in controversy, prior to
and at the time the title to the same was confirmed in those
under whom the defendant claims, and subsequently, was in
fact and did in law amount to an estoppel of Larkin and
those claiming under him.
Messrs. M. Blair and R A. Dick, contra.
Mr. Justice FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an action of ejectment for the possession of certain
real property situated in the county of Butte, in the State
of California. Both parties claim the demanded premises
under patents of the United States, issued upon a confirnation of grants made by the Mexican government. The
plaintiff claims under the junior patent issued upon the
earlier grant; the defendants claim under the senior patent
issued upon the later grant. Both patents cover the premises in controversy, one square league of land, and the main
question in the case, as in all cases where patents founded
upon previously existing concessions overlap, is which of
the two original concessions carried the better right to the
premises.
The question, as here presented, arising upon conflicting

IHENSHAW V. BISSELL.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

patents issued upon confirmed Mexican grants, has not been,
heretofore,. before this court for consideration, but the principles which must govern its determination are neither new
nor difficult.
The grant to Flugge, upon the confirmation of which the
patent was issued, from which the plaintiff deraigns his title,
was made by the governor of California in February,' 1844,
and was approved by the Departmental Assembly in June,
1845. It in terms ceded to the grantee, subject to such approval and other conditions, five square leagues of land situated on the westerly side of Feather River, as represented
on a map which accompanied the petition of the grantee,
and designated as the first boundary of the tract a certain'
degree of north latitude. This designation afterwards provedl
to be erroneous, but the line intended was susceptible of
being accurately traced by measurement from the junction
of Feather and Sacramento Rivers, which was marked on
the same map by a degree of latitude containing a similar
error. The map represented a tract stated in the petition,
and thestatement was accepted and acted upon by the governor as correct, to be one league in breadth, and indicated
natural objects of such marked character as to make the
identification of the land a matter perfectly easy to any surveyor. Feather River, which constitutes the eastern boundary, with its meanderings, is traced; the position of Honcut
Creek entering the river is given, and the point on the river
where the erroneously designated line of latitude crosses,
constituting the commencement of the boundary, is plainly
shown by the 'bend of the river. With the breadth of the
tract stated, the quantity limited, the southern and easteri
lines designated, all the elements are given essential to the
complete identification of the land. A grant of land thus
identified, or having such descriptive features as to render
its identification a matter of absolute certainty, entitled the
grantee to the specific tract named. His title, it is true, was
imperfect in its character, and subject to various conditions,
but when approved by the Departmental Assembly it bethe language of the regulations of 1828, "defini.
came, imm

Oct. 1874.]

IENSHAW V. BISSELL.
Opinion of the court.

tively valid," and the estate granted was not afterwards liable
to be divested except by regular proceedings on denouncement.* The power of the governor over it had ceased. He
could neither revoke the grant nor impair the interest of the
grantee by any attempted transfer to others.
The grant to the Fernandez, upon the confirmation of
which the patent was issued, from which the defendants
trace their title, was made by the governor of California in
June, 1846, but was not submitted to the Departmental
Assembly for approval, although made subject to that condition. The country passed under the control of the United
States a few weeks afterwards, and the authority of that:
body ceased. The grant is for four square leagues of land,
which it designates as unoccupied land, in the vicinity of
the river Sacramento, and as bounded on the north by the
faldas of the Sierra Nevada, a term which is sometimes
translated slope and sometimes base of the mountains; on
the south by the lands of John A. Sutter, and on the east by
Feather River. As thus appears, there was no certainty or
precision in the boundaries designated. The term slope or
base Of the mountains, whichever may be the correct translation, is of the vaguest import. The point where the
mountains of the Sierra Nevada may be said to commence
was then, and always must be, one of great uncertainty.
No two persons would ever agree as to the precise point
where their slope commenced or ended. Between the base,
or any supposed slope, and the line of Sutter's land, many
leagues intervened, and no western boundary of the tract is
given. If we look at the map to which the grant refers we
find the land represented as lying on Feather River, with its
northern boundary on the "faildas" of the Sierra, with no
other descriptive features to indicate either its northern or
southern line. It is clear that no specific tract was intended
by the governor, but only that the quantity designated
should be selected on Feather River, at the base or along
the side of the mountains, the precise line of which was to
* Hornsby v. United States, 10 Wallace, 288.

HENSHAW v. BISSELL.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

be determined by the magistrate delivering possession to
the grantees. As a grant of quantity it required, under the
Mexican laws, such delivery of possession to attach it to any
particular tract, called, in the language of the country, juridical possession, and that proceeding was never had. But it
is immaterial for the disposition of the present case whether
the grant to the Fernandez be treated as one of specific
boundaries, or of quantity; it could not interfere with and
displace a prior grant of defined boundaries.
Oil the argument great stress was placed by counsel upon
the fact that the claim under the Fernandez grant, though
later in date, was first surveyed and patented. But this fact
is not a matter of any weight in this case. Both parties
holding under patents have a standing in a court of law, and
the court is thus compelled to look beyond the patents, to
the original source of title, and to the character of that title
as it existed under the former government. The protection
which by the treaty the United States promised to the
grantees extended to rights which they then held. The confirmation established the validity of the claims bf the parties
as they then existed; that is, it determined that their claims
were founded upon concessions of the former government,
which were genuine and entitled to recognition so far as
they did not interfere with previously existing rights of
others, which the government was also bound to respect.
Confirmation established nothing more; it did not change
the character of the grant to Flugge as one of specific boundaries, nor that to the Fernandez as one of quantity. The
surveyor in surveying the claim upon the first grant was
still under as great obligations to follow the boundaries
which it specified, repeated in the decree of confirmation,
as though the second grant had never been issued or confirmed.
It is true, as stated by counsel, that the whole subject of
surveys is under the control of the political department of
the government, and is not subject to the supervision of the
courts, except in those cases arising under the act of 1860,
to which we ihall presently refer. The courts must, how-

Oct. 1873.]

HENSHAW

v. BISSELL.

Opinion of the court.

,ever, determine, whenever the question arises, whether prior
.rights of other parties have been interfered with by the survey of a confirmed claim upon which a patent has issued.
'They cannot, in the action of ejectment, correct the survey
made, but they can determine its inconclusiveness to the
extent essential to the protection of the prior rights of other
parties. And whenever two surveys covering the same tract
are approved by the political department, and a legal controversy arises respecting the land between claimants under
the different surveys, the question which of the two surveys
appropriates the premises in dispute is necessarily transferred to the judiciary. The fact that two surveys embrace
the same land is itself proof that either one of the original
-concessions was improvidently issued and to the extent of
its interference with the other was inoperative, or that error
has intervened in one of the surveys.
There is nothing in the language of this court, or of the
:Supreme Court of California, in the several cases cited by
.counsel, which conflicts with this view.* Those cases were
all actions of ejectment, in which imperfect or equitable
claims, or interests arising since the acquisition of the country, were set up against the legal title held under patents;
and the subjects there considered were the effect of the
patent as a conveyance of the government, and as evidence
-of the validity of the patentee's claim, and of its confirnaition and survey, as against parties having such imperfect or
)mere equitable claims, or subsequently acquired interests.
The patent, treated merely as the deed of the government,
is held in those cases to have the operation of a quit-claim,
-or rather of a conveyance of such interest as the United
:States possessed in the land, and to take effect by relation at
the time when proceedings were instituted before the board
,of land commissioners. The patent is also held in those
cases to be record evidence of the action of the government
,upon the claim of the patentee under the Mexican grant,
* Beard v. Federy, 3 Wallace, 479; Waterman v. Smith, 13 California,
.407; Moore v. Wilkinson, Ib.488; Stark v. Barrett, 15 Id. 366; Teschema.
,cher v. Thompson, 18 Id. 26; Leese v. Clark, Ib. 537.

HENSHAW V. BISSELL.

[sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

establishing without other proof the validity of the claim,
and its rightful location as against all parties asserting, in,
the action of ejectment, merely imperfect or equitable titles,,
or interests acquired since the country passed under the ,
jurisdiction of the United States. Actions of ejectment are
founded upon the legal title, and parties contesting the titleof the patentee in a court of law, it is there said, must showa superior legal title.
But in this case both parties stand upon patents; both
have in these instruments the conveyance of the government,:
and a recognition of their respective concessions under theformer government. In a controversy founded upon either
patent as against imperfect or equitable claims or interests,
obtained since the acquisition of the country, the same language might be repeated which is used in the cases cited.
But in the present controversy between parties claiming,
under two patents, each of which reserves the rights of
other parties, the inquiry must extend to the character of
the original concessions. The controversy can only be settled by determining which of these two gave the better right,
to the demanded premises.
As between two floating grants of quantity within the

same general tract, which is sufficiently large to satisfy both,.
where neither grantee had received official delivery of possession under the former government, and where, as a consequence, there was no measurement or severance of the
claim of either from the public domain, it may be that theparty whose claim is first surveyed and patented will hold
the better right to the land covered by his patent, and that
the other party will be compelled to have his claim located!
outside of that patent. There would be great difficulty in,
finding any legal reason for invalidating the action of the.
government in locating the claim of the patentee in such,
case in any part of the general tract it might deem proper.
The language of this court in Fremont's case would seem
to justify the conclusion that the floating claim first surveyed,
and thus severed from the public domain, would carry the.
title to the premises. The grant to Alvarado, which was

Oct. 1873.]

HENSHAW

v. BISSELL.

Opinion of the court.

then under consideration, was for ten leagues lying within,
exterior boundaries embracing several times the quantity
designated; and the court, whilst holding that, as between
the government and the grantee, the grant passed to the
latter a right to the quantity of land designated, to be laid
off by official authority in the territory described, said: "It
is true that if any other person within the limits where the.
quantity granted to Alvarado was to be located had afterwards obtained a grant from the government, by specific
boundaries, before Alvarado had made his survey, the title
of the latter grantee could not be impaired by any subsequent
survey of Alvarado. As between the individual claimants
from the government, the title of the party who had obtained a grant for the specific land would be the superior
and better one. For by the general grant to Alvarado,
the government did not bind itself to make no other grant
within the territory described until after he had made his
survey."* A second floating grant, the claim under which
is first surveyed and patented, and thus severed from the
public domain, would seem to stand, with reference to an
earlier floating grant within the same general limits, in the
position which the subsequent grant with specific boundaries
mentioned in the citation would have stood to the general
grant to Alvarado.t
But it is unnecessary to decide definitely this point now.
The present is not a case of conflicting patents issued upon
a confirmation of two floating grants within exterior boundaries embracing land capable of satisfying both. It is a
case where one of the grants upon which a patent has issued,
and that the earlier one, has specific boundaries, or such descriptive features as to render its limits easily ascertainable.
With the right of the grantee to the land thus designated
the claim of the donee of the second and floating grant could
not interfere.
But there is another view of this case which is equally
* 17 Howard, 558.

t Ledoux v. Black, 18 Id. 475; Waterman v. Smith, 18 California,
d17.

416

,

HENSHAW

v.

BISSELL.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

conclusive in favor of the plaintiff. We have thus far treated
the survey of the two grants upon which the respective
patents were issued, as made and approved under the act of
March 3d, 1851. But the survey of the claim under the
Flugge grant possesses, with respect to the claim under the
Fernandez grant, greater force than any such approval could
give. It, has received judicial sanction under the act of June
14th, 1860, which makes it conclusive as against all adverse
claimants under floating grants. That act provided that the
surveyor-general, when he had completed and plotted the
survey of any confirmed claim, should give public notice of
the fact by publication in two newspapers once a week foi
the period of four weeks; that during this time the survey
and plat should be retained in his office subject to inspection ; that upon the application of any party having such an
interest in the survey and location of the land as to make it
Just and proper that he should be allowed to intervene for
its protection, or on motion of the United States, the District Court should order the survey and plat to be returned
into court for examination and adjudication; that when thus
returned notice should be given by public advertisement, or
in some other form prescribed by rule, to all parties interested, that objection had been made to the survey and location, and admonishing them to intervene for the protection
of their interests; that such parties having intervened, might
take testimony and contest the survey and location; and
that on hearing the allegations and proofs, the court should
render its judgment approving the survey, if found to be
accurate, and correcting it or ordering a new survey when
fbund to be erroneous. The act also provided for'an appeal
from the decree of the District Court to the Supreme Court.
By the proceedings thus authorized, the approval of the
survey brought before the court had, as against claimants
under floating grants, the force and conclusiveness of a judicial determination in a suit in rem, and all such claimants
were concluded by it.
The survey of the claim under the Flugge grant was,
InD(ler the act in question, brought before the District Court

Oct. 1873.]

HENSHAW V. BISSELL.
Opinion of the court.

and there subjected to judicial examination, and finally re.
ceived the approval of the court. If thedefendants or those
under whom they hold failed to appear and contest the survey, they cannot now be heard in this action to question ita
correctness.*
The objection to the authority of the court to pass upon
the survey, because ordered into court before the act of June
14th, 1860, is untenable. The act in terms applies to surveys which had been previously returned into court and in
relation to which proceedings were then pending, as well as
to surveys subsequently made.t
Nor does it matter that a different survey had been previously approved by the surveyor-general of California. The.
whole subject of surveys is under the control of Congress,
and until the patent issues thereon, any survey may be set
aside and a new one ordered by its authority.
But the defendants, to defeat a recovery by the plaintiff,
also insist that his right of action is barred by the statute of
limitations of California; and also that he is estopped from
asserting a claim to the demanded premises by the conduct
and declarations of his predecessor, the claimant beibre the
land commission, in claiming land under his grant situated
in a different locality.
The statute of limitations of California, passed in 1863,
provided in substance that no action for the recovery of real
property or its possession should be maintained, unless the
plaintiff, his ancestor, predecessor, or grantor was seized or
possessed of the premises within five years before the commencement of the action, or the property was claimed under
title derived from the Spanish or Mexican governments,
which had not been previously confirmed by the United
States or their legally constituted authorities; in which
latter case the parties were allowed five years after the passage of the act within which to bring their action. If the
title had been thus finally confirmed the parties were limited
to five years after such confirmation. The statute also dev. United States, 1 Wallace, 591.
t United States v. Halleck, Ib. 463.
*Rodrigues

270

HENSHAW V. BISSELL.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

dlared that by final confirmation was meant the patent of the
United States, or the final determination of the official survey of the land under the act of Congress of June 14th, 1860.
The provision of the statute relating to actions where the
property is claimed under title derived from Spanish or
Mexican authorities, has since then been repealed; but before the repeal and within the time designated after final
,onfirmation of the grant, the present action was commenced.
The repeal could not, however, have any efifect upon the
.rights of the plaintiff.
Whilst proceedings were pending before the tribunals of
the United States for the confirmation of the claim under
the Flugge grant, the statute did not run and could not run
against the right of the claimant to the land in controversy.
He was obliged by the legislation of Congress to present his
claim for investigation and determination, under pain of
being held to have abandoned it, and was subjected to
,numerous and expensive proceedings to establish its validity. As a result of the proceedings required, the government, in effect, promised, in case his claim was found to be
valid, to give him in its patent such evidence of title as
would secure to him the possession and enjoyment of his
land. The legislation of Congress imposing this burden
upon the claimant and promising this benefit to him, is not
the subject of any constitutional objection, and it is not,
therefore, within the power of the legislature of a State to
defeat its operation. It was adopted by the government in
the discharge of its treaty obligations, with respect to which
its authority is absolute and supreme. The action of the
government thereunder, and the rights which perfected title
insures to its possessor, cannot be impaired or defeated in
any respect by the statute of limitations of the State. That
statute can only begin to run against the title perfected
under the legislation of Congress from the date of its con,summation.*
The alleged estoppel of the plaintiffs is asserted from
the fact that Larkin, who prosecuted the claim under the
*

Montgomery v. Bevans, 1 Sawyer, 681).

Oct. 1873.]

HENSHAW

V. BISSELL.

Opinion of the court.

Flugge grant for confirmation, had previously located it on
land selected farther north than the tract finally surveyed
and patented to him, and had announced to others that his
claim covered the land thus selected. It was undoubtedly
his desire to have his claim located where he had placed it.
The survey made by the surveyor-general, both preliminary
and subsequent to the confirmation, placed the land in the
same locality. Both claimant and surveyor seem to have
acted on the supposition that the erroneously designated
parallels of latitude should govern the location, instead of
the natural boundaries indicated on the map. There does
not appear to have been any intention on the part of Larkin
to mislead any one as to the nature of his rights. He was
satisfied to keep the land originally selected by him; and he
contended, and those who succeeded to his interests contended fbr the correctness of his selection; but the government, through its appropriate officers, interfered and asserted that another and different location was required by
the grant.
There is, therefore, no case for the application of the doctrine of equitable estoppel. For its application there must
be some intended deception in the conduct or declarations
of the party to be estopped, or such gross negligence on his
part as to amount to constructive fraud.
An estoppel in pais is sometimes said to be a moral question. Certain it is that to the enforcement of an estoppel
of this character, such as will prevent a party from asserting
his legal rights to property, there must generally be some
degree of turpitude in his conduct which has misled others
to their injury. Conduct or declarations founded upon
ignorance of one's rights have no such ingredient, and seldom work any such result. There are cases, it is true,
where declarations may be made under such peculiar circumstances, that the party will be estopped from denying
any knowledge of his rights; but these are exceptional, and
do not affect the correctness of the general rule as stated.*
* Commonwealth v. Moltz, 10 Pennsylvania, 531; Copeland v. Copeland,
2A Maine, 629; Whitaker v. Williams, 20 Connecticut, 104; Delaplaine v

272

ATKINS V. THE DISINTEGRATING COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct-

Statement of the case.

We see no ground for interfering with the judgment of'
the Circuit Court, and it is, therefore,
AFFIRMED.

ATKINS

v. THE

DISINTEGRATING

COMPANY.

1. An entry on the record of an admiralty case, that on the return of a process of attachment Mr. B. "appears for the respondent, and has a week
to perfect an appearance and to answer," is an appearance, the entry
being followed by the execution by the respondent or his agents of different bonds, reciting "that an appearance in the case had been entered. "'
2. A District Court of the United States, when acting as a court of admiralty, can obtain jurisdiction to proceed in personam against an inhabi-

tant of the United States not residing within the district (within which
terms a corporation incorporated by a State not within the district is
meant to be included), by attachment of the goods or property of such,
inhabitant found within the district.

from the Circuit Court for the Eastern District
of New York.
Atkins filed a libel in the District Court for the Eastern,
District of New York, in a cause civil and maritime, against
the Fibre Disintegrating Company; styling it "a corporation duly incorporated," but not saying by what State incorporated, nor anything else about it; the company having in
faet been incorporated by the State of New Jersey, a State
not within the limits of any judicial district of New York,
but on the contrary forming in itself the judicial " district
of New Jersey."
The libel was on a charter-party of the ship Hamilton,.
executed in New York, and was to recover:
1. Freight due the ship for bringing a cargo from Kingston and Port Morant in the island of Jamaica.
2. For demurrage for the ship while getting a cargo.
3. For damage to the ship by getting on a reef at Port
Morant.
APPEAL

Hitchcock, 6 Hill, 16; Brewer v. Boston and Worcester Railroad Company,
6 Metcalf, 479; Biddle Boggs v. Merced Mining Company, 14 California,.
868 ; Davis v. Davis, 26 Id. 23.

