OASES ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1971
THE BREMEN

ET AL.

V. ZAPATA OFF-SHORE CO.

CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE FIFTH CIRCUIT

No. 71-322.

Argued March 21, 1972-Decided June 12, 1972

Petitioner Unterweser made an agreement to tow respondent's drilling
rig from Louisiana to Italy. The contract contained a forumselection clause providing for the litigation of any dispute in the
High Court of Justice in London. When the rig under tow was
damaged in a storm, respondent instructed Unterweser to tow the
rig to Tampa, the nearest port of refuge. There, respondent
brought suit in admiralty against petitioners. Unterweser inyoked the forum clause in moving for dismissal for'want of jurisdiction and brought suit in the English court, which ruled that it
had jurisdiction under the contractual forum provision. The District Court, relying on Carbon Black Export, Inc. v. The Monrosa,
254 F. 2d 297, held the forum-selection clause unenforceable, and
refused to decline jurisdiction on the basis of forum non conveniens.
The Court of Appeals affirmed. Held: The forum-selection clause,
which was a vital part of the towing contract, is binding on the
parties unless respondent can meet the heavy burden of showing
that its enforcement would be unreasonable, unfair, or unjust.
Pp. 8-20.
428 F. 2d 888 and 446 F. 2d 907, vacated and remanded.
BURGER, C. J., delivered the opinion
NAN, STEWART, WHITE, MARSHALL,

of the Court, in which BRNBLACKMUN, POWELL, and
REHNQUIST, JJ., joined. WHITE, J., filed a concurring statement,
post, p. 20. DOUGLAS, J., filed a dissenting opinion, post, p. 20.

OCTOBER TERM, 1971

Opinion of the Court

407 U.S.

David C. G. Kerr argued the cause for petitioners.
With him on the briefs was Jack C. Rinard.
James K. Nance argued the cause for respondent.
With him on the brief was Dewey R. Villareal, Jr.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE BURGER delivered the opinion of
the Court.
We granted certiorari to review a judgment of the
United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit
declining to enforce a forum-selection clause governing
disputes arising under an international towage contract
between petitioners and respondent. The circuits have
differed in their approach to such clauses.1 For the
reasons stated hereafter, we vacate the judgment of the
Court of Appeals.
In November 1967, respondent Zapata, a Houstonbased American corporation, contracted with petitioner
Unterweser, a German corporation, to tow Zapata's
ocean-going, self-elevating drilling rig Chaparral from
Louisiana to a point off Ravenna, Italy, in the Adriatic
Sea, where Zapata had agreed to drill certain wells.
Zapata had solicited bids for the towage, and several
companies including Unterweser had responded. Unterweser was the low bidder and Zapata requested it to
submit a contract, which it did. The contract submitted by Unterweser contained the following provision,
which is at issue in this case:
"Any dispute arising must be treated before the
London Court of Justice."
e. g., Central Contracting Co. v. Maryland Casualty
Co., 367 F. 2d 341 (CA3 1966), and Wm. H. Muller & Co. v.
Swedish American Line Ltd., 224 F. 2d 806 (CA2), cert. denied, 350
1 Compare,

U. S. 903 (1955), with Carbon Black Export, Inc. v. The Monrosa,

254 F. 2d 297 (CA5 1958), cert. dismissed, 359 U. S. 180 (1959).

THE BREMEN v. ZAPATA OFF-SHORE CO.
Opinion of the Court

1

In addition the contract contained two clauses purporting to exculpate Unterweser from liability for damages
2
to the towed barge.
After reviewing the contract and making several
changes, but without any alteration in the forumselection or exculpatory clauses, a. Zapata vice president executed the contract and forwarded it to Unterweser in Germany, where Unterweser accepted the
changes, and the contract became effective.
On January 5, 1968, Unterweser's deep sea tug
Bremen departed Venice, Louisiana, with the Chaparral
in tow bound for Italy. On January 9, while the flotilla was in international waters in the middle of the
Gulf of Mexico, a severe storm arose. The sharp roll
of the Chaparralin Gulf waters caused its elevator legs,
which had been raised for the voyage, to break off and
fall into the sea, seriously damaging the Chaparral.
In this emergency situation Zapata instructed the Bremen
to tow its damaged rig to Tampa, Florida, the nearest
port of refuge.
On January 12, Zapata, ignoring its contract promise
to litigate "any dispute arising" in the English courts,
commenced a suit in admiralty in the United States
2

The General Towage Conditions of the contract included the
following:
"1. . . . [Unterweser and its] masters and crews are not responsible for defaults and/or errors in the navigation of the tow.
"2....
"b) Damages suffered by the towed object are in any case for
account of its Owners."
In addition, the contract provided that any insurance of the
Chaparralwas to be "for account of" Zapata, Unterweser's initial
telegraphic bid had also offered to "arrange insurance covering
towage risk for rig if desired." As Zapata had chosen to be selfinsured on all its rigs, the loss in this case was not compensatedby insurance.

OCTOBER TERM, 1971
Opinion of the Court

407 U. S.

District Court at Tampa, seeking $3,500,000 damages
against Unterweser in personam and the Bremen in rem,
alleging negligent towage and breach of contract.3 Unterweser responded by invoking the forum clause of the
towage contract, and moved to dismiss for lack of jurisdiction or on forum non conveniens grounds, or in the
alternative to stay the action pending submission of the
dispute to the "London Court of Justice." Shortly thereafter, in February, before the District Court had ruled
on its motion to stay or dismiss the United States
action, Unterweser commenced an action against Zapata
seeking damages for breach of the towage contract in
the High Court of Justice in London, as the contract
provided.. Zapata appeared in that court to contest
jurisdiction, but its challenge was rejected, the English
courts holding- that* the contractual forum provision
conferred jurisdiction.4
sThe Bremen was arrested by a United States marshal acting
pursuant to Zapata's complaint immediately upon her arrival in
Tampa. The tug was subsequently released when Unterweser furnished security in the amount of $3,500,000.
4 Zapata appeared specially and moved to set aside service of
process outside the country. Justice Karminski of the High Court
of Justice denied the motion on the ground the contractual choiceof-forum provision conferred jurisdiction and would be enforced,
absent a factual showing it would not be "fair and right" to do
so. He did not believe Zapata had made such a showing, and held
that it should be required to "stick to [its] bargain." App. 206, 211,
213. The Court of Appeal dismissed an appeal on the ground that
Justice Karminski had properly applied the English rule. Lord
Justice Willmer stated that rule as follows:
"The law on the subject, I think, is not open to doubt .... It is
always open to parties to stipulate . . .that a particular Court

shall have jurisdiction over any dispute arising out of their contract. Here the parties chose to stipulate that disputes were to
be referred to the 'London Court,' which I take as meaning the
High Court in this country. Prima facie it is the policy of the
Court to hold parties to the bargain into which they have en-

THE BREMEN v. ZAPATA OFF-SHORE CO.
Opinion of the Court

In the meantime, Unterweser was faced with a dilemma in the pending action in the United States court
at Tampa. The six-month period for filing action to
limit its liability to Zapata and other potential claimants
was about to expire, " but the United States DistrictCourt in Tampa had not yet ruled on Unterweser's
motion to dismiss or stay Zapata's action. On July 2,
1968, confronted with difficult alternatives, Unterweser
filed an action to limit its liability in the District Court
in Tampa. That court entered the customary injunction against proceedings outside the limitation court,
and Zapata refiled its- initial claim in the limitation
action.'
tered ....
But that is not an inlexible rule, as was shown, for instance, by the case of The Fehmarn, [1957] 1 Lloyd's Rep. 511;
(C. A.) -[1957] 2 Lloyd's Rep. 551 ....
"I approach the matter, therefore, in this way, that the Court has
a discretion, but it is a discretion which, in the ordinary way and in
the absence of strong reason to the contrary, will be exercised in
favour of holding parties to their bargain. The question is whether
sufficient circumstances have been shown to exist in this case to make
it desirable, on the grounds of balance of convenience, that proceedings should not take place in this country

....

"

[1968] 2 Lloyd's

Rep. 158, i62-163.
546 U. S. C. §§ 183, 185. See generally G. Gilmore & C. Black,
Admiralty § 10-15 (1957).
6In its limitation complaint, Unterweser stated it "reserve[d]
all rights" under its previous motion to dismiss or stay Zapata's
action, and reasserted that the High Court of Justice was the
proper forum for determining the entire controversy, including
its own right to limited liability, in accord with the contractual
forum clause. Unterweser later counterclaimed, setting forth the
same contractual cause of action as in its English action and a
further cause of action for salfage arising out of the Bremen's
services following the casualty. In its counterclaim, Unterweser
again asserted that the High Court of Justice in London was the
proper forum for determining all aspects of the controversy, including its counterclaim.

OCTOBER TERM, 1971
Opinion of the Court

407 U. S.

It was only at this juncture, on July 29, after the
six-month, period for filing the limitation action had
run, that the District Court denied Unterweser's January motion to dismiss or stay Zapata's initial action.
In denying the motion, that court relied on the prior
decision of the Court of Appeals in Carbon Black Export, Inc. v. The Monrosa, 254 F. 2d 297 (CA5 1958),
cert. dismissed, 359 U. S. 180 (1959). In that case
the Court of Appeals had held a forum-selection clause
unenforceable, reiterating the traditional view of many
American courts that "agreements in advance of controversy whose object is to oust the jurisdiction of the
courts are contrary to public policy and will not be
enforced." 254 F. 2d, at 300-301.' Apparently concluding that it was bound by the' Carbon Black case,
the District Court gave the forum-selection clause little,
if any, weight. Instead, the court treated the motion
to dismiss under normal forum non conveniens doctrine
applicable in the absence of such a clause, citing Gulf
Oil Corp. v. Gilbert, 330 U. S. 501 (1947). Under that
doctrine "unless the balance is strongly in favor of the
defendant, the plaintiff's choice of forum should rarely
be disturbed." Id., at 508. The District Court concluded: "The balance of conveniences here is not strongly
in favor of [Unterweser] and [Zapata's] choice of forum
should not be disturbed."
Thereafter, on January 21, 1969, the District Court
denied another motion by Unterweser to stay the limitation action pending determination of the controversy
in the High Court of Justice in London and granted
Zapata's motion to restrain Unterweser from litigating
7The Carbon Black court went on to say that it was, in any event,

unnecessary for it to reject the more liberal position taken in Win.
H. Muller & Co. v. Swedish American Line Ltd., 224 F. 2d 806
(CA2), cert. denied, 350 U. S. 903 (1955), because the case before
it had a greater nexus with the United States than that in Muller.

THE. BREMEN v. ZAPATA OFF-SHORE CO.
1

Opinion of the Court

further in the London court. The District Judge ruled
that, having taken jurisdiction in the limitation proceeding, he had jurisdiction to determine all matters relating
to the controversy. He ruled that, Unterweser should
be required to "do equity" by refraining from also litigating the controversy in the London court, not only
for the reasons he had previously stated for denying
Unterweser's first motion to stay Zapata's action, but
also because Unterweser had invoked the United States
court's jurisdiction to obtain the benefit of the Limitation Act.
On appeal, a divided panel of the Court of Appeals
affirmed, and on rehearing en banc the panel opinion
was adopted, with six of the 14 en banc judges dissenting. As had the District Court, the majority
rested on the Carbon Black decision, concluding that
"'at the very least'" that case stood for the proposition
that a forum-selection clause "'will not be enforced unless the selected state would provide a more convenient
forum than the state in which, suit is brought.'" From
that premise the Court of Appeals proceeded to conclude that, apart from the forum-selection clause, the
District Court did not abuse its discretion in refusing
to decline jurisdiction on the basis of forum non conveniens. It noted that (1) the flotilla never "escaped
the Fifth Circuit's mare nostrum, and the casualty occurred in close proximity to the district court"; (2) a
considerable number of potential witnesses, including
Zapata crewmen, resided in the Gulf Coast area; (3) preparation for the voyage and inspection and repair work
had been performed in the Gulf area; (4) the testimony of the Bremen crew was available by way of
deposition; (5) England had no interest in or contact
with the controversy other than the forum-selection
clause. The Court of Appeals majority further noted
that Zapata was a United States citizen and "[t]he dis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1971
Opinion of the Court

407 U. S.

cretion of the district court to remand the case to a
foreign forum was consequently limited"--especially
since it appeared likely that the English courts would
enforce the exculpatory clauses.' In the Court of Appeals' view, enforcement of such clauses would be contrary to public policy in American courts under Bisso v.
Inland Waterways Corp., 349 U. S. 85 (1955), and Dixilyn
Drilling Corp. v. Crescent Towing & Salvage Co., 372
U. S. 697 (1963). Therefore, "[t]he district court was
entitled to consider that remanding Zapata to a foreign forum, with no practical contact with the controversy, could raise a bar to recovery by a United States
citizen which its own convenient courts would not
countenance." I
We hold, with the six dissenting members of the Court
of Appeals, that far too little weight and effect were given
to the forum clause in resolving this controversy. For
at least two decades we have witnessed an expansion of
overseas commercial activities by business enterprises
based in the United States. The barrier of distance that
once tended to confine a business concern to a modest
territory no longer does so. Here we see an American
8 The

record contains an undisputed affidavit of a British solicitor

stating an opinion that the exculpatory clauses of the contract would
be held "prima facie valid and enforceable" against Zapata in any
action maintained in England in which Zapata alleged that defaults
or errors in Unterweser's tow caused the casualty and damage to
the Chaparral.
In addition, it is not disputed that while the limitation fund
in the District Court in Tampa amounts to $1,390,000, the limitation fund in England would be only slightly in excess of $80,000

under English law.
9

The Court of Appeals also indicated in passing that even if it
took the view that choice-of-forum clauses were enforceable unless
"unreasonable" it was "doubtful" that enforcement would be proper
here because the exculpatory clauses would deny Zapata relief to
which it was "entitled" and because England was "seriously incon-

venient" for trial of the action.

THE BREMEN v. ZAPATA OFF-SHORE CO.
1

Opinion of the Court

company with special expertise contracting with a foreign
company to tow a complex machine thousands of miles
across seas and oceans. The expansion of American
business and industry will hardly be encouraged if, notwithstanding solemn contracts, we insist on a parochial
concept that all disputes must be resolved under our
laws and in our courts. Absent a contract forum, the
considerations relied on by the Court of Appeals would
be persuasive reasons for holding an American forum
convenient in the traditional sense, but in an era of expanding world trade and commerce, the absolute aspects
of the doctrine of the Carbon Black case have little place
and would be a heavy hand indeed on the future development of international commercial dealings by Americans.
We cannot have trade and commerce in world markets
and international waters exclusively on our terms, governed by our laws, and resolved in our courts.
Forum-selection clauses have historically not been
favored by American courts. Many courts, federal and
state, have declined to enforce such clauses on the ground
that they were "contrary to public policy," or that their
effect was to "oust the jurisdiction" of the court. ° Al10 Many decisions reflecting this view are collected in Annot.,
56 A. L. R. 2d 300, 306-320 (1957), and Later Case Service (1967).
For leading early cases, see, e. g., Nute v. Hamilton Mutual Ins.
Co., 72 Mass. (6 Gray) 174 (1856); Nashua River Paper Co. v.
Hammermill Paper Co., 223 Mass. 8, 111 N. E. 678 (1916); Benson
v. Eastern Bldg. & Loan Assn., 174 N. Y. 83, 66 N. E. 627 (1903).
The early admiralty cases were in accord. See, e. g., Wood &
Selick, Inc. v. Compagnie Generale Transatlantique, 43 F. 2d 941
(CA2 1930); The Ciano, 58 F. Supp. 65 (ED Pa. 1944); Kuhnhold
v. Compagnie Generale Transatlantique, 251 F. 387 (SDNY 1918);
Prince Steam-Shipping Co. v. Lehman, 39 F. 704 (SDNY 1889).
In Insurance Co. v. Morse, 20 Wall. 445 (1874), this Court broadly
stated that "agreements in advance to oust the courts of the jurisdiction conferred by law are illegal and void." Id., at 451.. But the
holding of that case was only that the State of Wisconsin could not by
statute force a foreign corporation to "agree" to surrender its federal

OCTOBER TERM, 1971
Opinion of the Court

407 U. S.

though this view apparently still has considerable acceptance, other courts are tending to adopt a more hospitable attitude toward forum-selection clauses. This view,
advanced in the well-reasoned dissenting opinion in
the instant case, is that such clauses are prima facie valid
and should be enforced unless enforcement is shown by
the resisting party to be "unreasonable" under the circumstances. 1 We believe this is the correct doctrine to
be followed by federal district courts sitting in admiralty.
It is merely the other side of the proposition recognized
by this Court in National Equipment Rental, Ltd. v.
Szukhent, 375 U. S. 311 (1964), holding that in federal
courts a party may validly consent to be sued in a jurisstatutory right to remove a state court action to the federal courts
as a condition of doing business -in Wisconsin. Thus, the case is
properly understood as one in which a state statutory requirement
was viewed as imposing an unconstitutional condition on the exercise of the federal right of removal. See, e. g., Wisconsin v. Philadelphia & Reading Coal Co., 241 U. S. 329 (1916).
As Judge Hand noted in Krenger v. Pennsylvania R. Co., 174 F. 2d
556 (CA2 1949), even at that date there was in fact no "absolute
taboo" against such clauses. See, e. g., Mittenthal v. Mascagni, 183
Mass. 19, 66 N. E. 425 (1903); Daley v. People's Bldg., Loan & Say.
Assn., 178 Mass. 13, 59 N. E. 452 (1901) (Holmes, J.). See also
Cerro de Pasco Copper Corp. v. Knut Knutsen, 0. A. S., 187 F
2d 990 (CA2 1951).
11E. g., Central Contracting Co. v. Maryland Casualty Co., 367
F. 2d 341 (CA3 1966); Anastasiadis v. S. S. Little John, 346 F. 2d
281 (CA5 1965) (by implication); Win. H. Muller & Co. v. Swedish
American Line Ltd., 224 F. 2d 806 (CA2), cert. denied, 350 U. S.
903 (1955); Cerro de Pasco Copper Corp. v. Knut Knutsen, 0. A. S.,
187 F. 2d 990 (CA2 1951); Central Contracting Co. v. C. E. Youngdahl & Co., 418 Pa. 122, 209 A. 2d 810 (1965).
The Muller case was overruled in Indussa Corp. v. S. S. Ranborg,
377 F. 2d 200 (CA2 1967), insofar as it held that the forum clause
was not inconsistent with the "lessening of liability" provision of the
Carriage of Goods by Sea Act, 46 U. S. C. § 1303 (8), which was
applicable to the transactions in Muller, Indussa, and Carbon Black.
That Act is not applicable in this case.

THE BREMEN v. ZAPATA OFF-SHORE CO.
Opinion of the Court

diction where he cannot be found for service of process
through contractual designation of an "agent" for receipt
of process in that. jurisdiction. In so holding, the Court
stated:
"[I]t is settled . . . that parties to a contract may
agree in advance to submit to the jurisdiction of a
given court, to permit notice to be served by the
opposing party, or even to waive notice altogether."
Id., at 315-316.
This approach is substantially that followed in other
common-law countries including England.'
It is the
view advanced by noted scholars and that adopted by
the Restatement of the Conflict of Laws."3 It accords
with ancient concepts of freedom of contract and reflects
an appreciation of the expanding horizons of American
contractors who seek business in all parts of the world.
Not surprisingly, foreign businessmen prefer, as do we, to
In addition to the decision of the Court of Appeal in the
instant case, Unterfveser Reederei G. m. b. H. v. Zapata Off-Shore
Co. [The Chaparral], [1968] 2 Lloyd's Rep. 158 (C. A.), see
e. g., Mackender v. Feldia A. G., [1967] 2 Q. B. 590 (C. A.); The
Fehmarn, [1958] 1 W. L. R. 159 (C. A.); Law v. Garrett, [1878] 8
Ch. D. 26 (C. A.); The Eleftheria, [1970] P. 94. As indicated by
the clear statements in The Eleftheria and of Lord Justice Wilmer
in this case, supra, n. 4, the decision of the trial court calls for
an exercise of discretion. See generally A. Dicey & J. Morris, The
Conflict of Laws 979-980, 1087-1088 (8th ed. 1967); Cowen &
Mendes da Costa, The Contractual Forum: Situation in England
and the British Commonwealth, 13 Am. J. Comp. Law 179 (1964);
Reese, The Contractual Forum: Situation in the United States,
id., at 187, 190 n. 13; Graupner, Contractual Stipulations Conferring Exclusive Jurisdiction Upon Foreigik Courts in the Law of
England and Scotland, 59 L. Q. Rev. 227 (1943).
" Restatement (Second) of the Conflict of Laws § 80 (1971);
Reese, The Contractual Forum: Situation in the United States, 13
Am. J. Comp. Law 187 (1964); A. Ehrenzweig, Conflict of Laws § 41
(1962). See also Model Choice of Forum Act (National Conference
of Commissioners on Uniform State Laws 1968).
12

OCTOBER TERM, 1971
Opinion of the Court

407 U. S.

have disputes resolved in their own courts, but if that
choice is not available, then in a neutral forum with expertise in the subject matter. Plainly, the courts of England
meet the standards of neutrality and long experience in
admiralty litigation. The choice of that forum was made
in an arm's-length negotiation by experienced and sophisticated businessmen, and absent some compelling and
countervailing reason it should be honored by the parties
and enforced by the courts.
The argument that such clauses are improper because
they tend to "oust" a court of jurisdiction is hardly more
than a vestigial legal fiction. It appears to rest at core
on historical judicial resistance to any attempt to reduce
the power and business of a particular court and has
little place in an era when all courts are overloaded and
when businesses once essentially local now operate in
world markets. It reflects something of a provincial attitude regarding the fairness of other tribunals. No one
seriously contends in this case that the forum-selection
clause "ousted" the District Court of jurisdiction over
Zapata's action. The threshold question is whether that
court should have exercised its jurisdiction to do more
than give effect to the legitimate expectations of the
parties, manifested in their freely negotiated agreement,
by specifically enforcing the forum clause.
There are compelling reasons why a freely negotiated
private international agreement, unaffected by fraud, undue influence, or overweening bargaining power,14 such
14

The record here refutes any notion of overweening bargaining

power. Judge Wisdom, dissenting, in the Court of Appeals noted:
"Zapata has neither presented evidence of nor alleged fraud or
undue bargaining power in the agreement. Unterweser was only
one of several companies bidding on the project. No evidence contradicts its Managing Director's affidavit that it specified English
courts 'in an effort to meet Zapata Off-Shore Company half way.'
Zapata's Vice President has declared by affidavit that no specific
negotiations. concerning the forum clause took place. But this was
not simply a form contract with boilerplate language that Zapata

THE BREMEN v. ZAPATA OFF-SHORE CO.
1 ,Opinion

of the Court

as that involved here, should be given full effect. In this
case, for example, we are concerned with a far from routine transaction between companies of two different nations contemplating the tow of an extremely costly piece
of equipment from Louisiana across the Gulf of Mexico
and the Atlantic Ocean, through the Mediterranean Sea
to its final destination in the Adriatic Sea. In the course
of its voyage, it was to traverse the waters of many jurisdictions. The Chaparral could have been damaged at
any point along the route, and there were countless
possible ports of refuge. That the accident occurred in
the Gulf of Mexico and the barge was towed to Tampa in
an emergency were mere fortuities. It cannot be doubted
for a moment that the parties sought to provide for a
neutral forum for the resolution of any disputes arising
during the tow. Manifestly much uncertainty and possibly great inconvenience to both parties could arise if
a suit could be maintained in any jurisdiction in which
an accident might occur or if jurisdiction were left to
any place where the Bremen or Unterweser might happen
to be found.15 The elimination of all such uncertainties
by agreeing in advance on a forum acceptable to both
parties is an indispensable element in international trade,
had no power to alter. The towing of an oil rig across the Atlantic
was a new business. Zapata did make alterations to the contract
submitted by Unterweser. The forum clause, could hardly be
ignored. It is the final sentence of the agreement, immediately preceding the date and the parties' signatures.... ." 428 F. 2d 888, 907.
"At the very least, the clause was an effort to eliminate all
uncertainty as to the nature, location, and outlook of the forum in
which these companies of differing nationalities might find themselves. Moreover, while the contract here did not specifically
provide that the substantive law of England should be applied, it is
the general rule in English courts that the. parties are assumed,
absent contrary indication, to have designated the forum with the
view that it should apply its own law. See, e. g., Tzortzis v. Monark
Line A/B, [1968] 1 W. L. R. 406 (C.A.); see generally 1 T. Carver,
Carriage by Sea 496-497 (12th ed. 1971); G. Cheshire, Private International Law 193 (7th ed. 1965); A. Dicey & J. Morris, The Conflict

OCTOBER TERM, 1971
Opinion of the Court

407 U. S.

commerce, and contracting. There is strong evidence
that the forum clause was a vital part of the agreement,"

and it would be unrealistic to think that the parties did
not conduct their negotiations, including fixing the monetary terms, with the consequences of the forum clause
figuring prominently in their calculations. Under these
circumstances, as Justice Karminski reasoned in sustaining jurisdiction over Zapata in the High Court of
Justice, "[t] he force of an agreement for litigation in this
country, freely entered into between two competent parties, seems to me to be very powerful."
of Laws 705, 1046 (8th ed, 1967); Collins, Arbitration Clauses and
Forum Selecting Clauses in the Conflict of Laws: Some Recent Developments in England, 2 J. Mar. L. & Comm. 363, 365-370 and
n. 7 (1971). It is therefore reasonable to conclude that the forum
clause was also an effort to obtain certainty as to the applicable
substantive law.
The record contains an affidavit of a Managing Director of
Unterweser stating that Unterweser considered the choice-of-forum
provision to be of "overriding importance" to the transaction. He
stated that Unterweser towage contracts ordinarily provide for
exclusive German jurisdiction and application of German law, but
that "[in this instance, in an effort to meet [Zapata] half way,
[Unterweser] proposed the London Court of Justice. Had this
provision not been accepted by [Zapata], [Unterweser] would not
have entered into the towage contract . . . ." He also stated that
the parties intended, by designating the London forum, that English
law would be applied. A responsive affidavit by Hoyt Taylor, a
vice president of Zapata, denied that there were any discussions
between Zapata and Unterweser concerning the forum clause or the
question of the applicable law.
IGSee nn. 14-15, supra. Zapata has denied specifically 'discussing
the forum clause with Unterweser, but, as Judge Wisdom pointed
out, Zapata made numerous changes in the contract without altering the forum clause, which could hardly have escaped its attention. Zapata is clearly not unsophisticated in such matters. The
contract of its wholly owned subsidiary with an Italian corporation covering the contemplated drilling operations in the Adriatic
Sea provided that all disputes were to be settled by arbitration in
London under English law, and contained broad exculpatory clauses.
App. 306-311.

THE BREMEN v. ZAPATA OFF-SHORE CO.
Opinion of the Court

Thus, in the light of present-day commercial realities
and expanding international trade we conclude that the
forum clause should control absent a strong showing that
it should be set aside. Although their opinions are not
altogether explicit, it seems reasonably clear that the
District Court and the Court of Appeals placed the burden on Unterweser to show that London would be a more
convenient forum than Tampa, although the contract
expressly resolved that issue. The correct approach
would have been to enforce the forum clause specifically
unless Zapata could clearly show that enforcement would
be unreasonable and unjust, or that the clause was invalid
for such reasons as fraud or overreaching. Accordingly,
the case must be remanded for reconsideration.
We note, however, that there is nothing in the record
presently before us that would support a-refusal to enforce the forum clause. The Court of Appeals suggested
that enforcement would be contrary to the public policy
of the forum under Bisso v. Inland Waterways Corp., 349
U. S. 85 (1955), because of the prospect that the English
courts would enforce the clauses of the towage contract
purporting to exculpate Unterweser from liability for
damages to the Chaparral. A contractual choice-offorum clause should be held unenforceable if enforcement
would contravene a strong public policy of the forum in
which suit is brought, whether declared by statute or by
judicial decision. See, e. g., Boyd v. Grand Trunk W.
R. Co., 338 U. S. 263 (1949). It is clear, however, that
whatever the proper scope of the policy expressed in
Bisso,1" it does not reach this case. Bisso rested on considerations with respect to the towage business strictly in
11Dizilyn Drilling Corp. v. Crescent Towing & Salvage Co.,
372 U. S. 697 (1963) (per curiam), merely followed Bisso and declined to subject its rule governing towage contracts in American
waters to "indeterminate exceptions" based on delicate analysis
of the facts of each case. See 372 U. S., at 698 (Harlan, J.,
concurring).

OCTOBER TERM, 1971
Opinion of the Court

407U. S.

American waters, and those considerations are not controlling in an international commercial agreement.
Speaking for the dissenting judges in the Court of Appeals, Judge Wisdom pointed out:
"[W]e should be careful not to over-emphasize the
strength of the [Bisso] policy.... [T] wo concerns
underlie the rejection of exculpatory agreements:
that they may be produced by overweening bargaining power; and that they do not sufficiently
discourage negligence. .

.

. Here the conduct in

question is that of a foreign party occurring in international waters outside our jurisdiction. Thei evidence disputes any notion of overreaching in the
contractuaJ agreement. And for all we know, the
uncertainties and dangers in the new field of transoceanic towage of oil rigs were so great that the
tower was unwilling to take financial responsibility
for the risks, and the parties thus allocated responsibility for the voyage to the tow. It is equally possible that the contract price took this factor into
account. I conclude that we should not invalidate
the forum selection clause here unless we are firmly
convinced that we would thereby significantly encourage negligent conduct within the boundaries of
the United States." 428 F. 2d, at 907-908. (Footnotes omitted.)
Courts have also suggested that a forum clause, even
though it is freely bargained for and contravenes no important public policy of the forum, may nevertheless be
"unreasonable" and unenforceable if the chosen forum is
seriously inconvenient for the trial of the action. Of
course, where it can be said with reasonable assurance
that at the time they entered the contract, the parties to
a freely negotiated private international commercial
agreement contemplated the claimed inconvenience, it is
difficult to see why any such claim of inconvenience
should be heard to render the forum clause unenforceable.

THE BREMEN v. ZAPATA OFF-SHORE CO.

17

Opinion of the Court

We are not here dealing with an agreement between two
Americans to resolve their essentially local disputes in a
remote alien forum. In such a case, the serious inconvenience of the contractual forum to one or both of the
parties might carry greater weight in determining the reasonableness of the forum clause. The remoteness of the
forum might suggest that the agreement was an adhesive one, or that the parties did not have the particular controversy in mind when they made their agreement; yet even there the party claiming should bear a
heavy burden of proof. 8 Similarly, selection of a remote
forum to apply differing foreign law to an essentially
American controversy might contravene an important
public policy of the forum. For. example, so long' as
BiS8o governs American courts with respect to the towage
business in American waters, it would quite arguably be
improper to permit an American t6wer to avoid that
policy by providing a foreign forum for resolution of his
disputes with an American towee.
This case, however, involves a freely negotiated international commercial transaction between a German and
an American corporation for towage of a vessel from the
Gulf of Mexico to the Adriatic Sea. As noted, selection
of a London forum was clearly a reasonable effort to
bring vital certainty to this international transaction and
to provide a neutral forum experienced and capable in
the resolution of admiralty litigation. Whatever "inconvenience" Zapata would suffer by being forced to litigate
in the contractual forum as it agreed to do was clearly
18See, e. g., Model Choice of Forum Act § 3 (3), supra, n. 13,
comment: "On rare occasions, the state of the forum may be a substantially more convenient place for the trial of a particular controversy than the chosen state. If so, the present clause would
permit the action to proceed. This result will presumably be in
accord with the desires of the parties. It can be assumed that they
did not have the particular controversy in mind when they made
the choice-of-forum agreement since they would not consciously have
agreed to have the action brought in an inconvenient place."

OCTOBER TERM, 1971
Opinion of the Court

407 U. S.

foreseeable at the time of contracting. In such circumstances it should be incumbent on the party seeking to
escape his contract to show that trial in the contractual
forum will be so gravely difficult and inconvenient that he
will for all practical purposes be deprived of his day in
court. Absent that, there is no basis for concluding that
it would be unfair, unjust, or unreasonable to hold that
party to his bargain.
In the course of its ruling on Unterweser's second
motion to stay the proceedings in Tampa, the District
Court did make a conclusory finding that the balance of convenience was "strongly" in favor of litigation
in Tampa. However, as previously noted, in making
that finding the court erroneously placed the burden
of proof on Unterweser to show that the balance of
convenience was strongly in its favor. 9 Moreover, the
finding falls far short of a conclusion that Zapata would
be effectively deprived of its day in court should it be
19 Applying the proper burden of proof, Justice Karminski in
the High Court of Justice at London made the following findings,
which appear to have substantial support in the record:
"[Zapata] pointed out that in this case the balance of convenience
so far as witnesses were concerned pointed in the direction of having
the case heard and tried in the United States District Court at
Tampa in Florida because the probability is that most, but not
necessarily all, of the witnesses will be American. The answer, as
it seems to me, is that a substantial minority at least of witnesses
are likely to be German. The tug was a German vessel and was,

as far as I know, manned by a German crew ....

Where they

all are now or are likely to be when this matter is litigated I do
not know, because the experience of the Admiralty Court here
strongly points out that maritime witnesses in the course of their
duties move about freely. The homes of the German crew presumably are in Germany. There is probably a balance of numbers
in favour of the Americans, but not, as I am inclined to think, a
very heavy balance." App. 212.
It should also be noted that if the exculpatory clause is enforced
in the English: courts, many of Zapata's witnesses on the questions
of negligence and damage may be completely unnecessary.

THE BREMEN v. ZAPATA OFF-SHORE CO.
I

Opinion of the Court

forced to litigate in London. Indeed, it cannot even
be assumed that it would be, placed to the expense
of transporting its witnesses to London. It is not unusual for important issues in international admiralty
cases to be dealt with by deposition. Both the District
Court and the Court of Appeals majority appeared satisfied that Unterweser could receive a fair hearing in
Tampa by using deposition testimony of its witnesses
from distant places, and there is no reason to conclude
that Zapata could'not use deposition testimony to equal
advantage if forced to litigate in London as it bound
itself to do. Nevertheless, to allow Zapata opportunity
to carry its heavy burden of showing not only that
the balance of convenience is strongly in favor of trial
in Tampa (that is, that it will be far more inconvenient for Zapata to litigate in London than it will
be for Unterweser to litigate in Tampa), but also that
a London trial will be so manifestly and gravely inconvenient to Zapata that it will be effectively deprived
of a meaningful day in court, we remand for further.
proceedings.
Zapata's remaining contentions do not require extended treatment. It is clear that Unterweser's action
in filing its limitation complaint in the District Court
in Tampa was, so far as Zapata was concerned, solely
a -defensive measure made necessary as a response to
Zapata's breach of the forum clause of the contract.
When the six-month statutory period for filing an action
to limit its liability had almost run without the District Court's having ruled on Unterweser's initial motion
to dismiss or stay Zapata's action pursuant to the forum
clause, Unterweser had no other prudent alternative
but to protect itself by filing for limitation of its liability." Its action in so doing was a direct consequence
20 Zapata has suggested that Unterweser was not in any way
required to file its '"affirmative" limitation complaint because it

OCTOBER TERM, 1971
DouGLAs, J., dissenting

407 U. S.

of Zapata's failure to abide by the forum clause of the
towage contract. There is no basis on which to conclude that this purely necessary defensive action by
*Unterweser should preclude it from relying on the forum
clause it bargained for.
For the first time in this litigation, Zapata has suggested to this Court that the forum clause should not
be construed to provide for an exclusive forum or to
include in rem actions. However, the language of the
clause is clearly mandatory and all-encompassing; the
language of the clause in the Carbon Black case was
21
far different.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals is vacated and
the case is remanded for further proceedings consistent
with this opinion.
Vacated and remanded.
MR. JUsTicF, WHITE, concurring.

I concur in the opinion and judgment of the Court
except insofar as the opinion comments on the issues
which are remanded to the District Court. In my view
these issues are best left for consideration by the District Court in the first instance.
MR. JUSTIcE DouGLAs, dissenting.

Petitioner Unterweser contracted with respondent to
tow respondent's drilling barge from Louisiana to Italy.
The towage contract contained a "forum selection clause"
could just as easily have pleaded limitation of liability by vay of
defense in Zapata's initial action, either before or after the sixmonth period.' That course of action was not without risk, however,
that Unterweser's attempt to limit its liability by'answer would
be held invalid. See G. Gilmore & C. Black, Admiralty § 10-15
(1957). We do not believe this hazardous option in any way
deprived Unterweser's limitation complaint of its essentially defensive character so far as Zapata was concerned.
21 See 359 U. S., at 182.

THE BREMEN v. ZAPATA OFF-SHORE CO.
I

DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting

providing that any dispute must be litigated before the
High Court of Justice in London, England. While the
barge was being towed in the Gulf of Mexico a casualty
was suffered. The tow made for Tampa Bay, the nearest
port, where respondent brought suit for damages in the
District Court.
Petitioners sued respondent in the High Court of Justice in London, which denied respondent's motion to
dismiss.
Petitioners, having previously moved the District Court
to dismiss, filed a complaint in that court seeking exoneration or limitation of liability as provided in 46 U. S. C.
§ 185. Respondent filed its claim in the limitation proceedings, asserting the same cause of action as in its
original action. Petitioners then filed objections to respondent's claim and counterclaimed against respondent,
alleging the same claims embodied in its English action,
plus an additional salvage claim.
Respondent moved for an injunction against petitioners' litigating further in the English case and the District Court granted the injunction pending determination
of the limitation action. Petitioners moved to stay their
own limitation proceeding pending a resolution of the
suit in the English court. That motion was denied.
296 F. Supp. 733.
That was the posture of the case as it reached the
Court of Appeals, petitioners appealing from the last two
orders. The Court of Appeals affirmed. 428 F. 2d 888,
446 F. 2d 907.
Chief Justice Taft in HartfordAccident Co. v. Southern
Pacific, 273 U. S. 207, 214, in discussing the Limitation
of Liability Act said that "the great object of the
statute was to encourage shipbuilding and to induce the
investment of money in this branch of industry, by
limiting the venture of those who build the ship to the
loss of the ship itself or her freight then pending, in cases
of damage or wrong, happening without the privity or

OCTOBER TERM, 1971
DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting

407 U.S.

knowledge of the ship owner, and by the fault.or neglect
of the master or other persons on board; that the origin
of this proceeding for limitation of liability is to be found
in the general maritime law, differing from the English
maritime law; and that such a proceeding is entirely
within the constitutional grant of power to Congress to
establish courts of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction."
Chief Justice Taft went on to describe how the owner
of a vessel who, in case the vessel is found at fault, may
limit his liability to the value of the vessel and may
bring all claimants "into concourse in the proceeding, by
monition" and they may be enjoined from suing the
owner and the vessel on such claims in any other court.
Id., at 215.
Chief Justice Taft concluded: "[T]his Court has by
its rules and decisions given the statute a very broad
and equitable construction for the purpose of carrying
out its purpose and for facilitating a settlement of the
whole controversy over such losses as are comprehended
within it, and that all the ease with which rights can
be adjusted in equity is intended to be given to the proceeding. It is the administration of equity in an admiralty court.... The proceeding partakes in a way of the
features of a bill to enjoin a multiplicity of suits, a bill
in the nature of an interpleader, and a creditor's bill.
It looks to a complete 'and just disposition of a many
cornered controversy, and is applicable to proceedings
in rem against the ship as well as to proceedings in
personam against the owner, the limitation extending to
the owner's property as well as to his person." Id., at
215-216.
The Limitation Court is a court of equity and traditionally an equity court may enjoin litigation in another
court where equitable considerations indicate that the
other litigation might prejudice the proceedings in the
Limitation Court. Petitioners' petition for limitation

THE BREMEN v. ZAPATA OFF-SHORE CO.
1

DOUGLAS, J., dissenting

subjects them to the full equitable powers of the Lim-

itation Court.
Respondent is a citizen of this country. Moreover, if
it were remitted to the English court, its substantive
rights would be adversely affected. Exculpatory provisions in the towage control provide (1) that petitioners,
the masters and the crews "are not responsible for defaults
and/or errors in the navigation of the tow" and (2) that
"[diamages suffered by the towed object are in any case
for account of its Owners."
Under our decision in Dixilyn Drilling Corp v. Crescent
Towing & Salvage Co., 372 U. S. 697, 698, "a contract
which exempts the tower from liability for its own negligence" is not enforceable, though there is evidence in the
present record that it is enforceable in England. That
policy was first announced in Bisso v. Inland Waterways
Corp., 349 U. S. 85; and followed in Boston Metals Co.
v. The Winding Gulf, 349 U. S. 122; Dixilyn, supra;Gray
v. Johansson, 287 F. 2d 852 (CA5); California Co. v.
Jumonville, 327 F. 2d 988 (CA5); American S. S. Co. v.
Great Lakes Towing Co., 333 F. 2d 426 (CA7); D. R.
Kincaid, Ltd. v. Trans-Pacific Towing, Inc., 367 F. 2d
857 (CA9); A. L. Mechling Barge Lines, Inc. v. Derby
Co., 399 F. 2d 304 (CA5). Cf. United States v.
Seckinger, 397 U. S. 203. Although the casualty occurred on the high seas, the Bisso doctrine is nonetheless applicable. The Scotland, 105 U. S. 24; The Belgenland, 114 U. S. 355; The Gylfe v. The Trujillo, 209 F. 2d
386 (CA2).
Moreover, the casualty occurred close to the District
Court, a number of potential witnesses, including respondent's crewmen, reside in that area, and the inspection and repair work were done there. The testimony of
the tower's crewmen, residing in Germany, is already
available by way of depositions taken in the proceedings.

OCTOBER TERM, 1971
DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting

407 U. S.

All in all, the District Court judge exercised his discretion wisely in enjoining petitioners from pursuing the
litigation in England.*

I would affirm the judgment below.
*It is said that because these parties specifically agreed to litigate
their disputes before the London Court of Justice, the District Court,
absent "unreasonable" circumstances, should have honored that
choice by declining to exercise its jurisdiction. The forum-selection
clause, however, is part and parcel of the exculpatory provision in
the towing agreement which, as mentioned in the text, is not enforceable in American courts. For only. by avoiding litigation in the
United States could petitioners hope to evade the Bisso doctrine.
Judges in this country have traditionally been hostile to attempts
to circumvent the public policy against exculpatory agreements. For
example, clauses specifying that the law of a foreign place (which
favors such releases) should control have regularly been ignored.
Thus, in The Kensington, 183 U. S. 263, 276, the Court held void an
exemption from liability despite the fact that the contract provided
that it should be construed under Belgian law which was more tol-"
erant. And see E. Gerli & Co. v. Cunard S. S. Co., 48 F. 2d 115,
117 (CA2);Oceanic Steam Nay. Co. v. Corcoran, 9 F. 2d 724, 731
(CA2); In re Lea Fabrics, Inc., 226 F. Supp. 232, 237 (NJ); F. A.
Straus & Co. v. Canadian P. R. Co., 254 N. Y. 407, 173 N. E. 564;
Siegelman v. Cunard White Star, 221 F. 2d 189, 199 (CA2) (Frank,
J., dissenting). 6A A. Corbin on Contracts § 1446 (1962).
The instant stratagem of specifying a foreign forum is essentially
the same as invoking a foreign law of construction except that the
present circumvention also requires the American party to travel
across an ocean to seek relief.- Unless we are prepared to overrule
Bisso we should not countenance devices designed solely for the purpose of evading its prohibition.
It is argued, however, that-one of the rationales of the Bisso doctrine, "to protect those in need of goods or services from being
overreached by others who have power to drive hard bargains"
(349 U. S., at 91), does not apply here because these parties may
have been of equal bargaining stature. Yet we have often adopted
prophylactic rules rather than attempt to sort the core cases from
the marginal ones. In any event, the other objective of the Bisso
doctrine, to "discourage negligence by making wrongdoers pay damages" (ibid.) applies here and in every case regardless of the relative
bargaining strengths of the parties.

