OCTOBER TERM, 1993
Syllabus

THOMAS JEFFERSON UNIVERSITY, DBA THOMAS
JEFFERSON UNIVERSITY HOSPITAL v. SHALALA,
SECRETARY OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE THIRD CIRCUIT
No. 93-120. Argued April 18, 1994-Decided June 24, 1994
Medicare reimburses provider hospitals for the costs of certain educational
activities, including the cost of graduate medical education (GME) services furnished by the hospital or its affiliated medical school, 42 CFR
§§413.85, 413.17(a). However, reimbursement of educational activities
is llrnted by (1) an "nti-rAdiftribution" principle, providing that the
Medicare program's intent is to support activities that are "customarily
or traditionally carried on by providers in conjunction with their operations," but that the program should not "participate in increased costs
resulting from redistributionof costs from educational institutions...
to patient care institutions," §413.85(c) (emphasis added); and (2) a "community support" principle, providing that Medicare will not assume the
cost for educational activities previously borne by the community, ibid.
Petitioner teaching hospital, a qualified Medicare provider, sought no
reimbursement for its nonsalary-related (administrative) GME costs
before 1984, and those costs were borne by its affiliated medical college.
In fiscal year 1985, the fiscal intermediary disallowed the hospital's
claim for reimbursement for such costs, but the Provider Reimbursement Review Board reversed in part, allowing reimbursement. Respondent Secretary reinstated the fiscal intermediary's ruling, concluding that reimbursement for the nonsalary GME costs borne in prior
years by the medical college would constitute an impermissible redistribution under §413.85(c). As an independent ground, she concluded that
the community support principle also barred reimbursement. The District Court and the Court of Appeals affirmed.
Held: The Secretary's interpretation of the anti-redistribution principle is
reasonable. Because its application suffices to deny reimbursement of
the disputed costs in this case, there is no need to decide the validity
of the Secretary's interpretation of the community support language.
Pp. 512-518.
(a) As petitioner's challenge is to the Secretary's interpretation of
her own regulation, the Secretary's interpretation must be given controlling effect unless it is plainly erroneous or inconsistent with the regulation. Broad deference is all the more warranted here because the

Cite as: 512 U. S. 504 (1994)
Syllabus
regulation concerns a complex and highly technical program in which
the identification and classification of relevant criteria require significant expertise and entail the exercise of judgment grounded in policy
concerns. Pp. 512-513.
(b) The meaning of § 413.85(c)'s relevant sentence is straightforward:
Its first clause defines the scope of educational activities for which reimbursement may be sought, and its second clause provides that the
costs of such activities will not be reimbursed if they result from a shift
of costs from an educational, to a patient care, facility. The Secretary's
interpretation of the anti-redistribution principle gives full effect to
both clauses, allowing reimbursement for costs of educational programs
traditionally engaged in by a hospital, while denying reimbursement
for costs previously incurred and paid by a medical school. It is not
only a plausible interpretation, but also the most sensible interpretation
the language will bear. The Secretary's reliance on a hospital's and
medical school's own historical cost allocations is a simple and effective
way of determining whether a prohibited redistribution has occurred.
Pp. 513-514.
(c) Petitioner's argument that §413.85(c) prohibits the redistribution
of activities, not costs, ignores the second clause of the critical sentence,
which refers on its face to the "redistribution of costs." Moreover, the
term "costs" is used without condition. Even if the Secretary's interpretation were not far more consistent with the regulation's unqualified
language, her construction is a reasonable one which must be afforded
controlling weight. Petitioner has presented no persuasive evidence to
support its second argument, that the Secretary has been inconsistent
in applying the anti-redistribution principle. Petitioner's argument
that the regulation's language is "precatory" or "aspirational" in nature,
and thus lacking in operative force, is also unpersuasive, since the antiredistribution clause lays down a bright line for distinguishing permissible from impermissible reimbursement. Pp. 514-518.
993 F. 2d 879, affirmed.
KENNEDY, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which REHNQUIST,
C. J., and BLACKMUN, SCALIA, and SOUTER, JJ., joined. THOMAS, J., filed
a dissenting opinion, in which STEVENS, O'CONNOR, and GINSBURG, JJ.,
joined, post, p. 518.

Ronald N. Sutter argued the cause for petitioner. On the
briefs were James M. Gaynor, Jr., and Amy E. Hancock.
Amy L. Wax argued the cause for respondent. With her on
the brief were Solicitor General Days, Assistant Attorney

506

THOMAS JEFFERSON UNIV. v. SHALALA
Opinion of the Court

GeneralHunger, Deputy Solicitor General Kneedler,Robert
V Zener, Robert D. Kamenshine, Harriet S. Rabb, DarrelJ
Grinstead,Henry R. Goldberg, and Thomas W. Coons.*
JUSTICE KENNEDY delivered the opinion of the Court.
Although Medicare reimburses provider hospitals for the
costs of certain educational activities, the program is forbidden by regulation from "participat[ing] in increased costs
resulting from redistributionof costs from educational institutions ... to patient care institutions." 42 CFR §413.85(c)
(1993) (emphasis added). In denying reimbursement for the
disputed costs in this case, the Secretary of Health and
Human Services interpreted this provision to bar reimbursement of educational costs that were borne in prior years not
by the requesting hospital, but by the hospital's affiliated
medical school. The dispositive question is whether the
Secretary's interpretation is a reasonable construction of
the regulatory language. We conclude that it is.
I
A
Established in 1965 under Title XVIII of the Social Security Act, 79 Stat. 291, as amended, 42 U. S. C. § 1395 et seq.
(1988 ed. and Supp. IV), Medicare is a federally funded
health insurance program for the elderly and disabled. Subject to a few exceptions, Congress authorized the Secretary
*Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were filed for the State of Ohio
et al. by Lee Fisher,Attorney General of Ohio, Diane M. Signoracci,Catherine M. Ballard, Richard A Cordray, and Simon B. Karas, and by the
Attorneys General for their respective States as follows: Winston Bryant
of Arkansas, Charles M. Oberly III of Delaware, Richard P. Ieyoub of
Louisiana, Hubert H. Humphrey III of Minnesota, John P Arnold of New
Hampshire, G. Oliver Koppell of New York, Ernest D, Preate,Jr., of Pennsylvania, Jan Graham of Utah, and James S. Gilmore III of Virginia; and
for the American Hospital Association et al. by Ronald N. Sutter, Mary
Susan Philp,and Joseph A Keyes, Jr.

Cite as: 512 U. S. 504 (1994)

Opinion of the Court

of Health and Human Services (Secretary) to issue regulations defining reimbursable costs and otherwise giving
content to the broad outlines of the Medicare statute.
§ 1395x(v)(1)(A). That authority encompasses the discretion
to determine both the "reasonable cost" of services and the
"items to be included" in the category of reimbursable services. Ibid. Acting under the statute, the Secretary, by regulation, permits reimbursement for the costs of "approved
educational activities" conducted by hospitals. 42 CFR
§ 413.85(a)(1) (1993). The regulations define "approved educational activities" as "formally organized or planned programs of study usually engaged in by providers in order to
enhance the quality of patient care." §413.85(b).
Graduate medical education (GME) programs are one category of approved educational activities. GME programs
give interns and residents clinical training in various medical
specialties. Because participants learn both by treating patients and by observing other physicians do so, GME programs take place in a patient care unit (most often in a teaching hospital), rather than in a classroom. Hospitals are
entitled to recover the "net cost" of GME and other approved
educational activities, a figure "determined by deducting,
from a provider's total costs of these activities, revenues it
receives from tuition." §413.85(g). A hospital may include
as a reimbursable GME cost not only the costs of services
it furnishes, but also the costs of services furnished by the
hospital's affiliated medical school. §413.17(a).
That brings us to the regulation here in question. Section
413.85(c) sets forth conditions governing the reimbursement
of educational activities.' In a sentence referred to by the
ITitle 42 CFR § 413.85(c) provides in full:
"Educational Activities. Many providers engage in educational activities including training programs for nurses, medical students, interns
and residents, and various paramedical specialties. These programs contribute to the quality of patient care within an institution and are necessary to meet the community's needs for medical and paramedical per-

508

THOMAS JEFFERSON UNIV. v. SHALALA
Opinion of the Court

parties as the "anti-redistribution" principle, the regulation
provides that "[a]lthough the intent of the [Medicare] program is to share in the support of educational activities customarily or traditionally carried on by providers in conjunction with their operations, it is not intended that this
program should participate in increased costs resulting from
redistribution of costs from educational institutions or units
to patient care institutions or units." Ibid. In a portion of
the regulation known as the "community support" principle,
§413.85(c) also states that the costs of educational activities
"should be borne by the community," but that "[u]ntil communities undertake to bear these costs, the [Medicare] program will participate appropriately in the support of these
activities." Ibid.
B
Thomas Jefferson University Hospital (Hospital) is a 700bed teaching hospital in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. The
Hospital has been a qualified Medicare provider since the
program took effect in 1966. Petitioner Thomas Jefferson
University (University) is a private, not-for-profit educational institution that operates the Hospital and other
entities, including the Jefferson Medical College (Medical
College). As a teaching facility, the Hospital provides
sonnel. It is recognized that the costs of such educational activities
should be borne by the community. However, many communities have
not assumed responsibility for financing these programs and it is necessary that support be provided by those purchasing health care. Until
communities undertake to bear these costs, the [Medicare] program will
participate appropriately in the support of these activities. Although the
intent of the program is to share in the support of educational activities
customarily or traditionally carried on by providers in conjunction with
their operations, it is not intended that this program should participate
in increased costs resulting from redistribution of costs from educational
institutions or units to patient care institutions or units."
The language in §413.85(c) has been in effect since the beginning of the
Medicare program, although it was formerly designated 42 CFR §405.421
(1977) and 20 CFR §405.421 (1967).

Cite as: 512 U. S. 504 (1994)
Opinion of the Court

Medicare-approved GME programs for postgraduate interns
and residents in numerous medical specialties. The programs are conducted at the Hospital by Medical College faculty.. Because of their common ownership by the University,
the Hospital and the Medical College are considered affiliated
or "related" organizations under Medicare regulations. 42
CFR §413.17(a) (1993). As a result, the Hospital is entitled
to reimbursement for all eligible patient-care, educational,
and administrative costs carried on the books of the Medical
College. Ibid.
Nevertheless, for reasons not clear from the record, the
Hospital did not seek reimbursement for any GME costs during the first eight years of the Medicare program's existence.
During the next 10 years, however, from 1974 through 1983,
the Hospital sought and received reimbursement for three
categories of salary-related GME costs: (1) salaries paid by
the Hospital to Medical College faculty for services rendered
to the Hospital's Medicare patients; (2) salaries paid by the
Hospital to residents and interns; and (3) funds transferred
internally from the Hospital to the Medical College as
payment for faculty time devoted to the Hospital's GME
program. The Hospital did not seek reimbursement during that period for its other, non-salary-related GME
costs (namely, the costs of administering the Hospital's
GME programs), and those costs were borne by the Medical College.
In 1983, Congress adopted a more restrictive method of
reimbursing hospitals for inpatient medical services, see 42
U. S. C. § 1395ww(d) (1988 ed. and Supp. IV), but it retained
the more lenient method of reimbursement for medical education costs. 42 U. S. C. § 1395ww(a)(4) (1988 ed., Supp. IV).
In 1984, when the new cost reimbursement regime was implemented, the Hospital reviewed its claim for costs associated with its GME programs to determine whether it was
identifying all costs eligible for reimbursement. This review resulted in an increased claim reflecting clerical costs

510

THOMAS JEFFERSON UNIV. v. SHALALA
Opinion of the Court

incurred by the Medical College for activities associated with
its GME programs. 2
The following year, in an effort to further refine its cost
allocation techniques, the Hospital retained an accounting
firm to compute the Hospital's total GME costs for fiscal year
1985, the year here in question. Fiscal year 1985 later became especially significant because, under a new reimbursement scheme enacted in 1986, it is considered the Hospital's
base period, to which all later claims for GME cost reimbursement will be tied. See 42 U. S. C. § 1395ww(h). After
completing the cost study, the accounting firm reported that
the Hospital had incurred GME program costs totaling $8.8
million, a figure that included direct and indirect administrative costs not previously claimed by the Hospital. The report was submitted to petitioner's assigned fiscal intermediary, whose function is to review petitioner's annual cost
reports and to calculate the appropriate level of reimbursement under applicable statutes and regulations. See 42
CFR §405.1803 (1993). Although petitioner sought reimbursement for the full $8.8 million, the fiscal intermediary
allowed only those salary-related costs that had been reimbursed earlier (after adjustment for inflation). The fiscal
intermediary disallowed reimbursement for all nonsalaryrelated GME costs that the report identified (amounting
to approximately $2.9 million). App. to Pet. for Cert. 10a.
Petitioner then appealed to the Provider Reimbursement
Review Board, an intermediate appellate tribunal within
the Department, which reversed the decision of the fiscal
intermediary in part and allowed reimbursement for all
of the GME costs documented in the cost study.
The Secretary, acting through the Administrator of the
Health Care Financing Administration, modified the Board's
decision and reinstated the fiscal intermediary's ruling. The
Secretary concluded that the anti-redistribution clause of
2The fiscal intermediary allowed these clerical costs at first, but later
determined that such allowance was in error.

Cite as: 512 U. S. 504 (1994)
Opinion of the Court

§ 413.85(c) prohibits the shift of approved educational costs
from an educational unit to a patient-care unit, even if the
educational activities for which reimbursement is sought are
the kind of activities traditionally engaged in by Medicare
providers. Id., at 35a. Since the nonsalary GME costs
here in issue were borne in prior years by the Medical College, the Secretary ruled that reimbursement of these costs
would constitute an impermissible "redistribution of costs"
under §413.85(c). Ibid.
The Secretary also relied on the community support language in § 413.85(c) as an independent ground for denying
the requested reimbursement. According to the Secretary,
this language prohibits Medicare reimbursement for educational activities that "have been historically borne by the
community." Ibid. That the Hospital had failed to seek
reimbursement for the disputed costs in previous years was,
in the Secretary's view, "evidence of the communit[y's] support for these activities." Ibid. "To allow the community
to withdraw that support and pass these costs to the Medicare program" would violate the community support principle and would "encourage the community to abdicate its
commitment to education to an insurance program intended
to provide care for the elderly." Ibid.
Petitioner filed a petition for review in the District Court
seeking reimbursement for the $2,861,247 in GME costs
that the Secretary had disallowed. Id., at 10a. On crossmotions for summary judgment, the court ruled in the
Secretary's favor, accepting her interpretation of the
anti-redistribution and community support clauses as a
reasonable construction of §413.85(c). Thomas Jefferson

Univ. v. Sullivan, CCH Medicare & Medicaid Guide 40,294,
p. 20,959 (ED Pa. 1992). The Third Circuit affirmed without
opinion, judgment order reported at 993 F. 2d 879 (1993),
thereby creating a conflict with the decision of the Sixth
Circuit in Ohio State Univ. v. Secretary, Dept. of Health
and Human Services, 996 F. 2d 122 (1993), cert. pending,

THOMAS JEFFERSON UNIV. v. SHALALA
Opinion of the Court

No. 93-696, concerning the validity of the Secretary's interpretation of the anti-redistribution clause. We granted certiorari, 510 U. S. 1039 (1994), and now affirm.
II
Petitioner challenges the Secretary's construction of
§413.85(c) under the Administrative Procedure Act (APA),
5 U. S. C. § 551 et seq. The APA, which is incorporated by
the Social Security Act, see 42 U. S. C. § 1395oo(f)(1), commands reviewing courts to "hold unlawful and set aside"
agency action that is "arbitrary, capricious, an abuse of discretion, or otherwise not in accordance with law." 5 U. S. C.
§ 706(2)(A). We must give substantial deference to an
agency's interpretation of its own regulations. Martin v.
OccupationalSafety and Health Review Comm'n, 499 U. S.
144, 150-151 (1991); Lyng v. Payne, 476 U. S. 926, 939 (1986);
Udall v. Tallman, 380 U. S. 1, 16 (1965). Our task is not to
decide which among several competing interpretations best
serves the regulatory purpose. Rather, the agency's interpretation must be given "'controlling weight unless it
is plainly erroneous or inconsistent with the regulation."'
Ibid. (quoting Bowles v. Seminole Rock & Sand Co., 325 U. S.
410, 414 (1945)). In other words, we must defer to the Secretary's interpretation unless an "alternative reading is compelled by the regulation's plain language or by other indications of the Secretary's intent at the time of the regulation's
promulgation." Gardebring v. Jenkins, 485 U. S. 415, 430
(1988). This broad deference is all the more warranted
when, as here, the regulation concerns "a complex and highly
technical regulatory program," in which the identification
and classification of relevant "criteria necessarily require
significant expertise and entail the exercise of judgment
grounded in policy concerns." Pauley v. BethEnergy Mines,
Inc., 501 U. S. 680, 697 (1991).

Petitioner challenges the Secretary's construction of both
the anti-redistribution language and the community support

Cite as: 512 U. S. 504 (1994)
Opinion of the Court

language of §413.85(c). Because we conclude that the Secretary's interpretation of the anti-redistribution clause is neither "'plainly erroneous [n]or inconsistent with the regulation,"' Tallman, supra, at 16-17, and because its application
suffices to deny reimbursement of the disputed costs in this
case, we need not pass upon the Secretary's interpretation
of the community support language.
The anti-redistribution clause is contained in the final sentence of § 413.85(c), which states:
"Although the intent of the [Medicare] program is to
share in the support of educational activities customarily or traditionally carried on by providers in conjunction with their operations, it is not intended that
this program should participate in increased costs resulting from redistributionof costs from educational institutions or units to patient care institutions or units."
(Emphasis added.)
The meaning of this sentence is straightforward. Its introductory clause defines the scope of educational activities for
which reimbursement may be sought: To be eligible for reimbursement, the activity must be one that is "customarily or
traditionally carried on by providers in conjunction with
their operations." It is the language that follows, however,
that imposes the relevant restriction on cost redistribution.

The second clause provides that, notwithstanding the activity for which reimbursement is sought, the Medicare program will not participate in the "redistribution of costs from
educational institutions or units to patient care institutions
or units."
The Secretary's interpretation gives full effect to both
clauses of the relevant sentence. The Secretary interprets
the regulation to allow reimbursement for costs of educational programs traditionally engaged in by hospitals, but,
at the same time, to deny reimbursement for "cost[s] previously incurred and paid by a medical school." Brief for

514

THOMAS JEFFERSON UNIV. v. SHALALA
Opinion of the Court

Respondent 26 (emphasis deleted); see also §413.85(b) (defining "approved educational activities" that are eligible for reimbursement as "programs of study usually engaged in by
providers in order to enhance the quality of patient care").
The Secretary's reading is not only a plausible interpretation
of the regulation; it is the most sensible interpretation the
language will bear.
The circumstance addressed by the anti-redistribution
clause is a hospital's submission of "increased costs" arising
from approved educational activities. The regulation provides, in unambiguous terms, that the "costs" of these educational activities will not be reimbursed when they are the
result of a "redistribution," or shift, of costs from an "educational" facility to a "patient care" facility, even if the activities that generated the costs are the sort "customarily or
traditionally carried on by providers in conjunction with
their operations." § 413.85(c). The Secretary's reliance on
a hospital's own historical cost allocations, along with those
of an affiliated medical school, is a simple and effective way
of determining whether a prohibited "redistribution of costs"
has occurred. Indeed, one would be hard pressed to come
up with an alternative method to identify the shifting of
costs from one entity to another.
Petitioner advances three separate arguments for not
deferring to the Secretary's interpretation of the antiredistribution clause. None is persuasive.
First, petitioner asserts that the "clear meaning" of the
anti-redistribution clause is to allow reimbursement for the
costs of activities traditionally carried on by hospitals (e.g.,
clinical training of residents and interns), but to deny reimbursement for costs incurred in activities traditionally carried on by educational institutions (e. g., classroom training).
Pet. for Cert. 14. In other words, according to petitioner,
the redistribution that is prohibited is the redistribution
of activities, not the redistribution of costs. Brief for Petitioner 20.

Cite as: 512 U. S. 504 (1994)
Opinion of the Court

This argument is mistaken, for it ignores the second clause
of the critical sentence, which refers, on its face, to the "redistribution of costs," not the "redistribution of activities."
The term "costs," moreover, is used without condition. Nothing in the plain language suggests that the prohibition on
"redistribution of costs" is limited to the costs of certain activities (such as classroom instruction) carried on by an educational unit. The clear inference from the language is that
the shift of any reimbursable costs from an "educational institutio[n] or uni[t]" to a "patient care institutio[n] or uni[t]"
is prohibited. The Secretary's interpretation of the antiredistribution principle is thus far more consistent with the
regulation's unqualified language than the interpretation
advanced by petitioner. But even if this were not so, the
Secretary's construction is, at the very least, a reasonable
one, and we are required to afford it "controlling weight."
Bowles v. Seminole Rock & Sand Co., 325 U. S., at 414.
Second, petitioner argues that the Secretary has been
inconsistent in her interpretation of the anti-redistribution
provision. While it is true that an agency's interpretation
of a statute or regulation that conflicts with a prior interpretation is "'entitled to considerably less deference' than a consistently held agency view," INS v. Cardoza-Fonseca,480
U. S. 421, 446, n. 30 (1987) (quoting Watt v. Alaska, 451 U. S.
259, 273 (1981)), that maxim does not apply here because
petitioner fails to present persuasive evidence that the Secretary has interpreted the anti-redistribution provision in an
3
inconsistent manner.
In an attempt to find an inconsistency, petitioner points to
a 1978 internal operating memorandum issued by the Health
Care Financing Administration (HCFA) that addressed the

IThe dissent seeks to demonstrate that the Secretary has been inconsistent in her application of the community support principle. See post,
at 520-522. We see no need to dispute that proposition; as indicated
above, we express no view on the validity of the Secretary's interpretation
of the community support clause.

THOMAS JEFFERSON UNIV. v. SHALALA
Opinion of the Court

reimbursement of costs incurred by medical schools affiliated
with providers. Intermediary Letter No. 78-7 (Feb. 1978),
App. to Pet. for Cert. 64a-66a. The intermediary letter
detailed various categories and amounts of educational
expenses incurred by affiliated medical schools that might
be allowable to providers, but did not mention the antiredistribution limitation. Petitioner's attempt to infer from
that silence the existence of a contrary policy fails because
the intermediary letter did not purport to be a comprehensive review of all conditions that might be placed on
reimbursement of educational costs. By its own terms, the
intermediary letter attempted to review only a "number of
situations" relating to the reimbursement of educational
costs-namely, "situations rais[ing] questions about the reasonableness of [medical school faculty] costs as allowable
hospital costs and the appropriateness of the bases used in
allocating them to the hospital." Id., at 64a. It is not surprising, then, that the letter did not address the antiredistribution principle, and the mere failure to address it
here hardly establishes an inconsistent policy on the part of
4
the Secretary.
'Petitioner

further relies on an exchange of memoranda within HCFA

in 1982 regarding the University of Oregon's health training programs.

App. 22-26.

In response to an internal agency memorandum identifying

the antiredistribution clause and requesting additional clarification on
the scope of reimbursable educational activities, the Director of HCFA's
Division of Institutional Services responded, in part, that "[tihe alloca-

tion of costs to a hospital from a related medical school is governed by
Intermediary Letter 78-7," and failed to discuss the redistribution issue.

Id., at 25. This omission likewise fails to manifest a contrary policy. Indeed, a subsequent memorandum issued in 1985 from the Director of

HCFA's Division of Hospital Payment Policy stated that "[tlhe fact that
[the redistribution issue] is not mentioned in the subject memorandum
does not change the basic policy as espoused in 42 CFR [§413.85(c),]"
which provides "that where costs for items and services were previously
borne by a medical school, their allocation to a university hospital represents a redistribution of costs from an educational institution to a patient
care institution." Id., at 27.

Cite as: 512 U. S. 504 (1994)
Opinion of the Court

Likewise, contrary to the dissent's suggestion, post, at
520-522, the mere fact that in 1974 a fiscal intermediary may
have allowed reimbursement to petitioner for GME costs
that appear to have violated the anti-redistribution clause
does not render the Secretary's interpretation of that clause
invalid. For even if petitioner could show that such allowance was approved by--or even brought to the attention ofthe Secretary or her designate at the time, "[tihe Secretary
is not estopped from changing a view she believes to have
been grounded upon a mistaken legal interpretation." Good
Samaritan Hospital v. Shalala, 508 U. S. 402, 417 (1993).
And under the circumstances of this case, "where the
agency's interpretation of [its regulation] is at least as plausible as competing ones, there is little, if any, reason not to
defer to its construction." Id., at 417.
Finally, petitioner contends that we should ignore the
Secretary's interpretation of the anti-redistribution clause
because the language of the regulation is "precatory" and
"aspirational" in nature, and thus lacking in operative force.
See Brief for Petitioner 31-32. We do not lightly assume
that a regulation setting forth specific limitations on the reimbursement of costs under a federal program is devoid of
substantive effect. That is especially so when, as here, the
language in question speaks not in vague generalities but
in precise terms about the conditions under which reimbursement is, and is not, available. Whatever vagueness
may be found in the community support language that precedes it, the anti-redistribution clause lays down a bright line
for distinguishing permissible from impermissible reimbursement: Educational costs will not be reimbursed if they
are the result of a "redistribution of costs from educational
institutions or units to patient care institutions or units."
§413.85(c). The Secretary was well within her discretion to
interpret this language as imposing a substantive limitation
on reimbursement.

THOMAS JEFFERSON UNIV. v. SHALALA
THOMAS, J., dissenting

In sum, the Secretary's construction of the antiredistribution principle is faithful to the regulation's plain
language, and the application of this language suffices to bar
reimbursement of the costs claimed in this case. For these
reasons, we affirm the judgment of the Court of Appeals.
It is so ordered.
JUSTICE THOMAS,

with whom JUSTICE

STEVENS, JUSTICE

O'CONNOR, and JUSTICE GINSBURG join, dissenting.

The Court's opinion reads as if this were a case of model
agency action. As the Court views matters, 42 CFR
§413.85(c) (1993) is "unambiguous," ante, at 514, and respondent Secretary of Health and Human Services (Secretary) has always been "faithful to the regulation's plain language," ante this page. That plain language, according to
the Court, required the Secretary to disallow the reimbursement petitioner sought. The Court's account is hardly an
accurate portrayal of this case. When the case is properly
viewed, I cannot avoid the conclusion that the Secretary's
construction of § 413.85(c) runs afoul of the plain meaning of
the regulation and therefore is contrary to law, in violation
of the Administrative Procedure Act, 5 U. S. C. § 706(2)(A).
I therefore respectfully dissent.

I
The Court holds that § 413.85(c) has substantive content,
reasoning that "the language in question speaks not in vague
generalities but in precise terms about the conditions under
which reimbursement is, and is not, available." Ante, at
517. In my view, however, § 413.85(c) is cast in vague aspirational terms, and it strains credulity to read the regulation
as imposing any restriction on the reimbursability of the
costs of graduate medical education (GME) or other approved educational expenses. On the contrary, subsection
(c) appears to be nothing more than a precatory statement
of purpose that imposes no substantive restrictions.

Cite as: 512 U. S. 504 (1994)
THOMAS,

J., dissenting

Subsection (c), in stark contrast to the remainder of
reads more like a preamble than a law. See ante,
at 507-508, n. 1 (quoting § 413.85(c)).' In the community
support portion of §413.85(c), the Secretary praises the benefits of approved educational programs and expresses a belief
that communities "should" pay for such programs. The subsection then announces the Secretary's intention to support
such activities "appropriately," limited only by the vague
suggestion that at some point in the future a restructuring
of fiscal priorities at the "community" level may obviate the
need for federal support. The anti-redistribution principle
is no less precatory than the community support principle.
It states two "intent[ions]": first, to pay for the "customar[y]
and traditiona[l]" educational activities of Medicare providers, and, second, to avoid reimbursing expenses that should
be borne by educational institutions affiliated with teaching
hospitals. I would not permit the Secretary to transform
by "interpretation" what self-evidently are mere generalized
expressions of intent into substantive rules of reimbursability. Cf. Stinson v. United States, 508 U. S.36, 45 (1993)
(an agency's interpretation of its own regulation cannot be
sustained if "'plainly erroneous or inconsistent with the regulation' ") (quoting Bowles v. Seminole Rock & Sand Co., 325
U. S.410, 414 (1945)). See also Udall v. Tallman, 380 U. S.
1, 16-17 (1965).
We rejected a similar attempted transformation of preca-

§ 413.85,

tory language in Pennhurst State School and Hospital v.
Halderman,451 U. S.1 (1981). There, we addressed a claim
that the "bill of rights" of the Developmentally Disabled Assistance and Bill of Rights Act of 1975, 42 U. S. C. § 6010
(1976 ed. and Supp. III), created substantive rights in favor
of the mentally retarded. The bill of rights provided, in
part, that such persons "have a right to appropriate treat' Like the Court, ante, at 507-508, I refer to the last sentence of 42
CFR §413.85(c) (1993) as the "anti-redistribution principle," and to the
remainder of the subsection as-the "community support principle."

520

THOMAS JEFFERSON UNIV. v. SHALALA
THOMAS,

J., dissenting

ment, services, and habilitation" and that state governments
"have an obligation to assure that public funds are not provided to any [noncomplying] institutio[n]." §§6010(1), (3).
We held that the bill of rights did not have substantive effect:
"§ 6010, when read in the context of other more specific provisions of the Act, does no more than express a congressional
preference for certain kinds of treatment. It is simply a
general statement of 'findings' and, as such, is too thin a reed
to support the rights and obligations read into it by the court
below." 451 U. S., at 19. Even though Pennhurst did not
involve an agency regulation, its textual analysis suggests
that it is unreasonable to give substantive effect to precatory, aspirational language-as would the Secretary's construction of 42 CFR §413.85(c) (1993). Cf. EEOC v. Arabian American Oil Co., 499 U. S.244, 260 (1991) (SCALIA, J.,
concurring in part and concurring in judgment) (explaining
that "deference is not abdication, and it requires us to accept
only those agency interpretations that are reasonable in light
of the principles of construction courts normally employ").
Interestingly enough, for the first two decades of the Medicare program's operation, the Secretary's fiscal intermediaries, with her acquiescence (if not approval), gave §413.85(c)
precisely the same substantive effect as I would-none. During that entire period, the Secretary never invoked the subsection to deny reimbursement for previously unreimbursed
costs, and providers were actually reimbursed for such
costs despite §413.85(c). Indeed, contrary to the Court's
baffling assertion that "petitioner fails to present persuasive evidence that the Secretary has interpreted the antiredistribution provision in an inconsistent manner," ante, at
515, one need look no further than petitioner's brief, see
Brief for Petitioner 21-24, to find evidence of such interpretive inconsistency as to both the anti-redistribution and community support principles.
Petitioner received no Medicare reimbursement for any
GME costs from 1966 to 1973.. Even though the anti-

Cite as: 512 U. S. 504 (1994)

THOMAS, J., dissenting

redistribution and community support principles were in effect for that entire period, see ante, at 507-508, n. 1, petitioner was awarded reimbursement for the first time in 1974,
for salary-related GME costs. Because those GME costs
were not paid for by Thomas Jefferson University Hospital
(Hospital) prior to 1974, even the Secretary's opinion below
finds, as a matter of fact, that they were borne, to a large
extent, by Jefferson Medical College (Medical School) during
that period. Cf. App. to Pet. for Cert. 32a (identifying public educational grants to the Medical School and Medical
School tuition as sources for funding the Hospital's pre-1974
GME activities). Also, the funding for those costs that came
from sources other than the Medical School (namely, hospital
fees from charges to non-Medicare beneficiaries, see ibid.)
did not come from Medicare and therefore constituted "community support." See App. to Pet. for Cert. 18a (the Secretary "views community support as any source of funding
other than the Medicare program").
Yet under, the Secretary's present interpretation of
§ 413.85(c), petitioner should never have received any GME
cost reimbursement because it had not obtained such reimbursement from the beginning of the Medicare program.
/ To the extent the Hospital's GME costs were previously
borne by the Medical School, providing petitioner reimbursement for those costs violated the anti-redistribution principle, as presently construed. See ante, at 513 ("The Secretary interprets the regulation.., to deny reimbursement for
'costs previously incurred and paid by a medical school'")
(editorial revisions omitted). Indeed, the Provider Reimbursement Review Board (PRRB) explicitly recognized this
fact, finding that, on the fiscal intermediary's interpretation
of "redistribution" (adopted by the Secretary below), "[in
1974, the [Hospital] commenced shifting costs .. .to the
Medicare program" and that "[a]dditional cost shifting occurred in 1984 when certain clerical costs of the Medical
School were included in the [Hospital's] cost report." App.

THOMAS JEFFERSON UNIV. v. SHALALA
THOMAS,

J., dissenting

to Pet. for Cert. 50a. 2 Similarly, reimbursing petitioner for
GME costs violated the community support principle, to the
extent funding for such costs had been available previously
from non-Medicare sources. See ante, at 511 (where community support has been received, §413.85(c) "prohibits
Medicare reimbursement"). Thus, the Court's statement
that there is no "evidence that the Secretary has interpreted
the anti-redistribution provision in an inconsistent manner,"
ante, at 515, appears to be wishful thinking: Petitioner has
been routinely granted reimbursement which it should have
been denied under §413.85(c), if the Secretary's current interpretation is correct.
I think it reasonable to conclude that in reimbursing petitioner since 1974 for GME costs not reimbursed from the
inception of the Medicare program, the Secretary acted on
the basis of an interpretation of §413.85(c) that attached
no significance to a Medicare provider's failure in prior years
to be reimbursed for, or to carry on its books, eligible educational costs. This conclusion has significant support in
the Secretary's roughly contemporaneous pronouncements.
Cf. Lyng v. Payne, 476 U. S. 926, 939 (1986); M. Kraus &
Bros., Inc. v. United States, 327 U. S. 614, 622 (1946) (opinion
of Murphy, J.). In 1978, for example, the Secretary advised
fiscal intermediaries that reasonable GME costs incurred by
a related medical school are "allowable hospital costs," Intermediary Letter No. 78-7 (Feb. 1978), without even mentioning either the community support or the anti-redistribution
principle as potential limitations on its construction. App.
to Pet. for Cert. 64a. The letter's explicit statement that
the Secretary therein addressed the "appropriateness" of
"allocating [educational costs] to the hospital [in question],"
2Because

the Secretary, through the Health Care Financing Administration (HCFA), only modified rather than reversed the PRRB's decision, see App. to Pet. for Cert. 37a, the PRRB's opinion remains in force
to the extent consistent with the opinion of the HCFA. Cf 42 U. S. C.
§ 1395oo(f)(1).

Cite as: 512 U. S. 504 (1994)
THOMAS,

J., dissenting

ibid., demonstrates the inaccuracy of the Court's suggestion
that the letter addressed topics entirely unrelated to the
anti-redistribution principle, ante, at 515-516; the "appropriateness" of allocating costs from a medical school to its affiliated hospital is precisely what the anti-redistribution principle governs, to the extent it has substantive effect at all.
See 42 CFR §413.85(c) (1993).
Moreover, in 1982, the Secretary answered a query from a
fiscal intermediary concerning the relationship between the
anti-redistribution principle and Intermediary Letter 78-7
with the statement that "allocation of costs to a hospital
from a related medical school is governed by Intermediary
Letter 78-7." App. 25. The Court makes much of the fact
that the 1982 memorandum did not explicitly mention the
anti-redistribution principle. Ante, at 516, n. 4. In so
doing, however, the Court overlooks the fact that the fiscal
intermediary's inquiry presented the Secretary with a
specific binary choice: Are approved educational activities
previously paid for by an affiliated educational unit either
allowable (i. e., reimbursable) hospital costs (as Intermediary
Letter No. 78-7 advised) or a prohibited redistribution of
costs under § 413.85(c)? By answering the fiscal intermediary's pointed query with the statement that Intermediary
Letter No. 78-7 is controlling on the reimbursability of the
costs associated with such activities, see App. 25, the Secretary quite clearly (albeit implicitly) afforded the antiredistribution principle no substantive effect whatsoever.
To be sure, in 1985 the Secretary issued a memorandum
stating, without elaboration, that "[t]he fact that [the antiredistribution principle] is not mentioned in the [1982] memorandum does not change the basic policy as espoused in
[§ 413.85(c)]." Id., at 27. The 1985 memorandum's bare reference to the "policy" of §413.85(c), however, neither disavowed the Secretary's past interpretation of the regulation
nor set forth any alternative interpretation. The Court
thus considerably overstates matters in its suggestion that

THOMAS JEFFERSON UNIV. v. SHALALA
THOMAS, J., dissenting

the 1985 memorandum specifically confirmed the continued
vitality of the anti-redistribution principle. Ante, at 516,
n. 4.3

Based on a reading of the undeniably precatory language
used in §413.85(c), confirmed by two decades of consistent
agency practice, I would hold that subsection (c) imposes no
limit on the reimbursability of approved educational activities. Cf. M. Kraus & Bros., 327 U. S., at 622 ("Not even the
Administrator's interpretations of his own regulations can
... add

certainty and definiteness to otherwise vague lan-

guage"). Instead, the subsection seems intended merely
to explain the remainder of the regulation, which addresses
the reimbursability of approved educational costs in clear,
'Even less satisfactory is the Secretary's suggestion that her failure
to apply § 413.85(c) in prior fiscal years is of no relevance. See Brief
for Respondent 37. The prior inconsistent conduct of the agency is quite
relevant-not because her inconsistency "estop[s]" her from changing her
view, ante, at 517 (internal quotation marks omitted)-but rather because
agency conduct, no less than express statements, can effect a construction
of statutes or regulations. Cf, e. g., Motor Vehicle Mfrs. Assn. of United
States, Inc. v. State Farm Mut. Automobile Ins. Co., 463 U. S.29, 41-42
(1983) (holding that "[a] 'settled course of behavior embodies the agency's
informed judgment that, by pursuing that course, it will carry out the
policies [of applicable statutes or regulations]'") (quoting Atchison, T &
S. F R. Co. v. Wichita Bd.of Trade, 412 U. S.800, 807-808 (1973)). Two
decades of providing reimbursement in contravention of what is now
claimed to be the community support and anti-redistribution principles
certainly constitutes a "settled course of behavior," and I find it difficult
to believe the Secretary would permit such a persistent-and costlyerror in the application of her reimbursement rules. Cf, 1991 Medicare
Explained 706, p. 179 ("When Medicare pays for noncovered services or
it pays too much for covered services, the program will ordinarily attempt
to recover the amount of the overpayment"). A settled interpretation
that persists over time is presumptively to be preferred, see Motor Vehicle Mfrs. Assn., 463 U. S., at 41-42, and therefore judges are properly
suspect of sharp departures from past practice that are as unexplained as
the Secretary's in this case. Id., at 42. See also Wichita Bd. of Trade,
supra, at 807-808.

Cite as: 512 U. S. 504 (1994)
THOMAS,

J., dissenting

unmistakably mandatory terms. Cf. Pennhurst, 451 U. S.,
at 19, n. 14.
By giving substantive effect to such a hopelessly vague
regulation, the Court disserves the very purpose behind the
delegation of lawmaking power to administrative agencies,
which is to "resol[ve] . . . ambiguity in a statutory text."
Pauley v. BethEnergy Mines, Inc., 501 U. S. 680, 696.(1991).
See generally Chevron U S. A. Inc. v. Natural Resources
Defense Council, Inc., 467 U. S. 837, 865-866 (1984). Here,
far from resolving ambiguity in the Medicare program statutes, the Secretary has merely replaced statutory ambiguity
with regulatory ambiguity. It is perfectly understandable,
of course, for an agency to issue vague regulations, because
to do so maximizes agency power and -allows the agency
greater latitude to make law through adjudication rather
than through the more cumbersome rulemaking process.
Nonetheless, agency rules should be clear and definite so that
affected, parties will have adequate notice concerning the
agency's understanding of the law. Cf. FTC v. Atlantic
Richfield Co., 567 F. 2d 96, 103 (CADC 1977) (Wilkey, J.).
Cf. generally 2 K. Davis & R. Pierce, Administrative Law
§ 11.5, p. 204 (3d ed. 1994) ("An agency whose powers are
not limited either by meaningful statutory standards or...
legislative rules poses a serious potential threat to liberty
and to democracy"). The aspirational terms of § 413.85(c)
are woefully inadequate to impart such notice.4
4

As a result of the Court's ruling today, petitioner and other Medicare
providers who, in the past, received reimbursement for GME costs in violation of the Secretary's present interpretation of § 413.85(c) are suddenly
faced with the possibility of being sued for recoupment of the millions of
dollars of "overpayments" they received from Medicare.

The Social Secu-

rity Act, we have noted, "permits . . . retroactive action" within three
years by the Secretary to make "'corrective adjustments... where, for a

provider of services for any fiscal period, the aggregate reimbursement
produced by the methods of determining costs proves to be ... excessive."' Bowen v. Georgetown Univ. Hospital, 488 U. S. 204, 209 (1988)
(quoting 42 U. S. C. § 1395x(v)(1)(A)).

Thus, although the Secretary per-

THOMAS JEFFERSON UNIV. v. SHALALA
THOMAS,

J., dissenting

II
A
In view of its unbelabored conclusion that §413.85(c) imposes substantive limits on the reimbursability of approved
educational costs, the Court's discussion focuses primarily
on what substantive import § 413.85(c)'s anti-redistribution
principle should be read to have. The Court finds the antiredistribution principle "straightforward" in its meaningany costs that, at some previous point in time, were carried on the books of an affiliated educational institution
cannot subsequently be reimbursed by Medicare. Ante, at
513. For the reasons previously discussed, I would hold that
§ 413.85(c) cannot reasonably be construed to impose substantive restrictions on the reimbursability of approved educational costs. Nevertheless, if I had to give the principle
substantive effect, I could not agree with the Court's sweeping construction of the principle. In my view, the Court's
reading is premised on a distortion of the text of the regulation enunciating the anti-redistribution principle, and it is
the text, of course, which must be given controlling effect.
See Bowles, 325 U. S., at 414 (holding that an agency's interpretation of its own regulation must comport with "the plain
words of the regulation").
Under the relevant portion of § 413.85(c), it is the type of
educational activity engaged in that determines whether or
not reimbursement is proper: "[T]he intent of the [Medicare]
program is to share in the support of educational activities
customarily or traditionally carried on by providers in
mitted petitioner to recover reimbursement for "those medical education
costs which it has traditionally claimed and been allowed prior to 1984,"
App. to Pet. for Cert. 37a, that act of administrative grace appears to be
subject to revision at the whim of the Secretary. Cf. Heckler v. Community Health Services of Crawford Cty., Inc., 467 U. S. 51 (1984) (Secretary
not estopped from recouping overpayment to Medicare provider whose
prior reimbursement claims were made in reliance on erroneous advice of
its designated fiscal intermediary).

Cite as: 512 U. S. 504 (1994)
THOMAS,

J., dissenting

conjunction with their [patient care] operations." 42 CFR
§413.85(c) (1993). The proper question under the antiredistribution principle, therefore, is not, as the Secretary
puts it, whether "[a particular provider] has traditionally
claimed and been allowed" reimbursement for a particular
category of reimbursable costs. App. to Pet. for Cert. 37a.
Instead, the relevant question is whether the educational
activities for which reimbursement is sought are of a type
"customarily or traditionally" engaged in by providers. If,
in a particular case, that question is answered in the negative, then it would be a forbidden "redistribution" of costs to
award Medicare reimbursement for the costs associated with
the activities in question. Conversely, if the costs for which
a provider seeks reimbursement result from educational activities that are traditionally engaged in by Medicare providers, no redistribution of costs occurs when those costs
are reimbursed.
A prohibition against shifting the costs of educational
units (for example, medical or nursing schools) to patient
care units was necessary because of the Medicare program's
related-organization rule, which provides that "costs applicable to services, facilities, and supplies furnished to the provider by organizations related to the provider by common
ownership or control are includable in the allowable cost of
the provider." 42 CFR §413.17(a) (1993). In light of the
related-6rganization rule, §413.85(a)'s recognition of educational costs as reimbursable costs created the distinct possibility that many, if not most, of the costs arising from educational unit activities could be shifted to affiliated Medicare
providers (and therefore to the Medicare program) because,
by definition, such units engage in educational activities.
Cf. 57 Fed. Reg. 43659, 43668 (1992) (expressing the Secretary's concern that "Medicare payment for medical education
costs should not result in a redistribution of costs from the
educational institution to the provider"). Since Medicare is
primarily intended to fund health care for the elderly and

528

THOMAS JEFFERSON UNIV. v. SHALALA
THOMAS,

J., dissenting

disabled, not to subsidize the education of health care professionals, cf. 42 U. S. C. § 1395c, the Secretary avoided such an
inadvertent "expan[sion] [in] the range of items and services
for which a provider could claim payment" by barring the
redistribution of costs from educational to patient care units.
57 Fed. Reg. 43668 (1992).
The Court therefore errs in reading the term "redistribution" wholly divorced from the context in which it appears.
See ante, at 513 (suggesting the first clause of the antiredistribution principle is not even "relevant" to an understanding of the second phrase). In my view, "redistribution" can only be properly understood in light of the
remainder of the sentence in which it appears and in light of
the related-organization rule, because interpreting a statute
or regulation "is a holistic endeavor." United Say. Assn. of
Tex. v. Timbers of Inwood Forest Associates, Ltd., 484 U. S.
365, 371 (1988). Viewed in the proper textual context,
§ 413.85(c)'s anti-redistribution principle simultaneously expresses an intent to fund educational activities customarily
conducted by teaching hospitals and disallows reimbursement for costs incurred by their affiliated educational units
in conducting educational programs not customarily or traditionally engaged in by such hospitals. The Secretary's contrary interpretation, in my view, is unworthy of deference.
Cf., e. g., Bowles, supra, at 414.
There can be no question that the GME activities for
which petitioner seeks reimbursement are customarily or
traditionally engaged in by teaching hospitals. As the District Court cogently explained in Ohio State Univ. v. Secretary, U S. Dept. of Health and Human Services, 777 F. Supp.
582 (SD Ohio 1991), aff'd, 996 F. 2d 122 (CA6 1993), cert.
pending, No. 93-696:
"In the case of graduate medical education, it would
be customary and traditional for a teaching hospital to
employ qualified physicians in various medical specialties to select and supervise the interns and residents

Cite as: 512 U. S. 504 (1994)
THOMAS, J., dissenting

enrolled in the educational program. These physicians
would need clerical and administrative staff, office space
and supplies to carry out their function[s]. Their salaries, the salaries of their clerical and administrative
staffs, and the cost of their office space and supplies
would all be part of the cost of the educational activity
which ultimately contributes to the quality of patient
care in the hospital." 777 F. Supp., at 587.
As a result, the anti-redistribution principle provides no
basis for denying petitioner Medicare reimbursement for
the full level of its GME costs, less tuition revenues. See
§§413.85(a), (g).
I therefore wholeheartedly agree with the PRRB that
"[t]he fact that [the Hospital] did not fully identify all of the
costs associated with its GME programs in prior years does
not prohibit the correction of this [cost accounting] error in
the cost reporting period in contention." App. to Pet. for

Cert. 58a-59a. In ruling to the contrary, the Court arbitrarily subjects similarly situated Medicare providers, with
identical levels of reimbursable GME costs, to disparate reimbursement, simply because one provider may have forgone
reimbuisement to which it was plainly entitled as a consequence of its cost accounting procedure's failure to identify
all of the provider's reimbursable costs. Although "[mien
must turn square corners when they deal with the Government," Rock Island, A. & L. R. Co. v. United States, 254
U. S. 141, 143 (1920) (Holmes, J.), the manifest injustice of the
Court's result should be apparent.
B
Because, unlike the Court, I do not believe the antiredistribution principle may reasonably be read to bar petitioner's claim for reimbursement for non-salary-related GME
costs, I must also address petitioner's challenge to the Secretary's construction of the community support principle.
Petitioner argues that interpreting the term "community

530

THOMAS JEFFERSON UNIV. v. SHALALA
THOMAS,

J., dissenting

support" to include all non-Medicare sources of funding for
GME costs is inconsistent with the text of §413.85(c). I
agree. Not only is the community support principle merely
an aspirational statement of policy, see supra, at 519-523,
but, in my view, the other provisions of 42 CFR §413.85
(1993) plainly leave no role for the principle in the cost reimbursement calculus for approved educational activities.
Section 413.85(a) authorizes a provider to "include its
net cost of approved educational activities" in its allowable
Medicare costs and provides that the "net cost" of such activities is to be "calculated under paragraph (g) of this section." Section 413.85(g), in turn, defines "[n]et cost of approved educational activities" as the provider's "total costs
of these activities," less "revenues it receives from tuition."
Section 413.85(g) therefore clearly establishes the level of
reimbursement a provider may expect for approved educational costs, and the only source of funding that is to be offset
against such costs is tuition revenues. No other potential
sources of funding for GME activities are included in the
offset required by §413.85(g). Thus, the Secretary's interpretation of the community support principle as requiring,
in effect, all non-Medicare sources of funding to be offset
against total educational cost is flatly inconsistent with
§§ 413.85(a) and (g).
The plain implication of § 413.85(g) is confirmed by its
regulatory history. Cf. Payne, 476 U. S., at 941. In 1984,
the Secretary amended the subsection's predecessor to eliminate the requirement that "grants" and "specific donations"
be offset against educational costs actually incurred. See 49
Fed. Reg. 234, 296, 313 (1984) (amending 42 CFR § 405.421(g)
(1983)). See also 48 Fed. Reg. 39752, 39797, 39811 (1983)
(withdrawing 42 CFR §405.423 (1982) relating to offsets for
certain grants and gifts). The Secretary's construction of
the community support principle essentially reintroduces
grants and specific donations into the reimbursement calculus. The Secretary has thus rendered the 1984 amend-

Cite as: 512 U. S. 504 (1994)
THOMAS,

J., dissenting

ment to the regulation entirely superfluous, a disfavored result that should be avoided where possible. See Kungys v.
United States, 485 U. S. 759, 778 (1988). Cf. also Connecticut Nat. Bank v. Germain, 503 U. S. 249, 253 (1992).
Consequently, the Secretary's construction of the community support principle to impose a substantive restriction on
the reimbursability of approved educational expenses is inconsistent with the regulation. As such, the construction is
unworthy of deference. See, e. g., Stinson, 508 U. S., at 45.
III
For the foregoing reasons, the Secretary acted contrary

to law, within the meaning of 5 U. S. C. § 706(2)(A), in construing 42 CFR § 412.85(c) (1992) as denying Medicare providers the right to receive reimbursement for otherwise
eligible educational costs simply because the costs had not
previously been reimbursed by Medicare. I would therefore
reverse the judgment of the Court of Appeals. I respectfully dissent.

