OCTOBER TERM, 1993
Syllabus

CITY OF LADUE ET AL. v. GILLEO
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE EIGHTH CIRCUIT
No. 92-1856. Argued February 23, 1994-Decided June 13, 1994
An ordinance of petitioner City of Ladue bans all residential signs but
those falling within 1 of 10 exemptions, for the principal purpose of
minimizing the visual clutter associated with such signs. Respondent
Gilleo filed this action, alleging that the ordinance violated her right to
free speech by prohibiting her from displaying a sign stating, "For Peace
in the Gulf," from her home. The District Court found the ordinance
unconstitutional, and the Court of Appeals affirmed, holding that the
ordinance was a "content based" regulation, and that Ladue's substantial interests in enacting it were not sufficiently compelling to support
such a restriction.
HeU The ordinance violates a Ladue resident's right to free speech.
Pp. 48-59.
(a) While signs pose distinctive problems and thus are subject to municipalities' police powers, measures regulating them inevitably affect
communication itself. Such a regulation may be challenged on the
ground that it restricts too little speech because its exemptions discriminate on the basis of signs' messages, or on the ground that it prohibits too much protected speech. For purposes of this case, the validity of Ladue's submission that its ordinance's various exemptions are
free of impermissible content or viewpoint discrimination is assumed.
Pp. 48-53.
(b) Although Ladue has a concededly valid interest in minimizing
visual clutter, it has almost completely foreclosed an important and distinct medium of expression to political, religious, or personal messages.
Prohibitions foreclosing entire media may be completely free of content
or viewpoint discrimination, but such measures can suppress too much
speech by eliminating a common means of speaking. Pp. 54-55.
(c) Ladue's attempt to justify the ordinance as a "time, place, or manner" restriction fails because alternatives such as handbills and newspaper advertisements are inadequate substitutes for the important
medium that Ladue has closed off. Displaying a sign from one's own
residence carries a message quite distinct from placing the same sign
someplace else, or conveying the same text or picture by other means,
for it provides information about the speaker's identity, an important
component of many attempts to persuade. Residential signs are also

CITY OF LADUE v. GILLEO
Syllabus
an unusually cheap and convenient form of communication. Furthermore, the audience intended to be reached by a residential sign-neighbors-could not be reached nearly as well by other means. Pp. 56-57.
(d) A special respect for individual liberty in the home has long been
part of this Nation's culture and law and has a special resonance when
the government seeks to constrain a person's ability to speak there.
The decision reached here does not leave Ladue powerless to address
the ills that may be associated with residential signs. In addition, residents' self-interest in maintaining their own property values and preventing "visual clutter" in their yards and neighborhoods diminishes the
danger of an "unlimited" proliferation of signs. Pp. 58-59.
986 F. 2d 1180, affirmed.
STEVENS, J., delivered the opinion for a unanimous Court.
J., ified a concurring opinion, post, p. 59.

O'CONNOR,

Jordan B. Cherrick argued the cause for petitioners.
With him on the briefs were Robert F. Schlafly and Jay
A. Summerville.

Gerald P. Greiman argued the cause for respondent.
With him on the brief were Martin M. Green, Mitchell A.
Margo, and Steven R. Shapiro.
Deputy Solicitor General Bender argued the cause for
the United States as amicus curiae urging affirmance.
With him on the brief were Solicitor General Days, Assistant Attorney General Hunger, and Amy L. Wax.*
*Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were filed for the State of
Hawaii et al. by J. Joseph Curran,Jr., Attorney General of Maryland, and
Jack Schwartz and Diane Krejsa, Assistant Attorneys General, Robert A
Marks, Attorney General of Hawaii, Pamela Carter,Attorney General of
Indiana, Jeffrey R. Howard, Attorney General of New Hampshire, Fred
DeVesa, Acting Attorney General of New Jersey, Ernest D, Preate, Jr.,
Attorney General of Pennsylvania, and Jeffrey L. Amestoy, Attorney General of Vermont; and for the National Institute of Municipal Law Officers
et al. by Richard Ruda and Lee Fennell.
Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were filed for the American
Advertising Federation et al. by Richard E. Wiley, Lawrence W. Secrest
III, Howard H. Bell, John F. Kamp, David S. Versfelt, Kenneth M. Vittor,
and Slade Metcalf, for the Association of National Advertisers, Inc., by
Burt Neuborne and Gilbert H. Weil; for People for the American Way

Cite as: 512 U. S. 43 (1994)
Opinion of the Court

delivered the opinion of the Court.
An ordinance of the City of Ladue prohibits homeowners
from displaying any signs on their property except "residence identification" signs, "for sale" signs, and signs warning of safety hazards. The ordinance permits commercial
establishments, churches, and nonprofit organizations to
erect certain signs that are not allowed at residences. The
question presented is whether the ordinance violates a
Ladue resident's right to free speech. 1
JUSTICE STEVENS

Respondent Margaret P. Gilleo owns one of the 57 singlefamily homes in the Willow Hill subdivision of Ladue.2 On
December 8, 1990, she placed on her front lawn a 24- by 36inch sign printed with the words, "Say No to War in the
Persian Gulf, Call Congress Now." After that sign disappeared, Gilleo put up another but it was knocked to the
ground. When Gilleo reported these incidents to the police,
they advised her that such signs were prohibited in Ladue.
The city council denied her petition for a variance.8 Gilleo
then filed this action under 42 U. S. C. § 1983 against the City,
the mayor, and members of the city council, alleging that
et al. by Timothy B. Dyk, Elliot M. Mincberg, and Marc D. Stern; and for

the Washington Legal Foundation et al. by Daniel J Popeo and Richard
A Samp

1The First Amendment provides: "Congress shall make no law ...
abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press . . . ." The Fourteenth
Amendment makes this limitation applicable to the States, see Gitlow
v. New York, 268 U. S. 652 (1925), and to their political subdivisions, see
Lovell v. City of Griffin, 303 U. S. 444 (1938).
2
Ladue is a suburb of St. Louis, Missouri. It has a population of almost

9,000, and an area of about 8.5 square miles, of which only 3% is zoned for
commercial or industrial use.

3The ordinance then in effect gave the city council the authority to "permit a variation in the strict application of the provisions and requirements
of this chapter... where the public interest will be best served by permitting such variation." App. 72.

CITY OF LADUE v. GILLEO
Opinion of the Court

Ladue's sign ordinance violated her First Amendment right
of free speech.
The District Court issued a preliminary injunction against
enforcement of the ordinance. 774 F. Supp. 1559 (ED Mo.
1991). Gilleo then placed an 8.5- by 11-inch sign in the second story window of her home stating, "For Peace in the
Gulf." The Ladue City Council responded to the injunction
4
by repealing its ordinance and enacting a replacement.
Like its predecessor, the new ordinance contains a general
prohibition of "signs" and defines that term broadly.5 The
ordinance prohibits all signs except those that fall within 1
of 10 exemptions. Thus, "residential identification signs" no
larger than one square foot are allowed, as are signs advertising "that the property is for sale, lease or exchange" and
identifying the owner or agent. § 35-10, App. to Pet. for
Cert. 45a. Also exempted are signs "for churches, religious
institutions, and schools," §35-5, id., at 41a, "[c]ommercial
signs in commercially zoned or industrial zoned districts,"
§ 35-4, ibid., and on-site signs advertising "gasoline filling
4The new ordinance eliminates the provision allowing for variances and
contains a grandfather clause exempting signs already lawfully in place.
6Section 35-2 of the ordinance declares that "No sign shall be erected
[or] maintained" in the City except in conformity with the ordinance;
§ 35-3 authorizes the City to remove nonconforming signs. App. to Pet.
for Cert. 40a. Section 35-1 defines "sign" as:
"A name, word, letter, writing, identification, description, or illustration
which is erected, placed upon, affixed to, painted or represented upon a
building or structure, or any part thereof, or in any manner upon a parcel
of land or lot, and which publicizes an object, product, place, activity, opinion, person, institution, organization or place of business, or which is used
to advertise or promote the interests of any person. The word 'sign' shall
also include 'banners', 'pennants', 'insignia', 'bulletin boards', 'ground
signs', 'billboard', 'poster billboards', 'illuminated signs', 'projecting signs',
'temporary signs', 'marquees', 'roof signs', 'yard signs', 'electric signs',
'wall signs', and 'window signs', wherever placed out of doors in view of
the general public or wherever placed indoors as a window sign." Id.,
at 39a.

Cite as: 512 U. S. 43 (1994)
Opinion of the Court

stations,"' 6 § 35-6, id., at 42a. Unlike its predecessor, the
new ordinance contains a lengthy "Declaration of Findings,
Policies, Interests, and Purposes," part of which recites
that the
"proliferation of an unlimited number of signs in private,
residential, commercial, industrial, and public areas of
the City of Ladue would create ugliness, visual blight
and clutter, tarnish the natural beauty of the landscape
as well as the residential and commercial architecture,
impair property values, substantially impinge upon the
privacy and special ambience of the community, and may
cause safety and traffic hazards to motorists, pedestrians, and children." Id., at 36a.
Gilleo amended her complaint to challenge the new ordinance, which explicitly prohibits window signs like hers.
The District Court held the ordinance unconstitutional, 774
F. Supp. 1559 (ED Mo. 1991), and the Court of Appeals affirmed, 986 F. 2d 1180 (CA8 1993). Relying on the plurality
opinion in Metromedia, Inc. v. San Diego, 453 U. S. 490
(1981), the Court of Appeals held the ordinance invalid as a
"content based" regulation because the City treated commercial speech more favorably than noncommercial speech and
favored some kinds of noncommercial speech over others.
6The full catalog of exceptions, each subject to special size limitations, is
as follows: "[M]unicipal signs"; "[s]ubdivision and residence identification"
signs; "[r]oad signs and driveway signs for danger, direction, or identification"; "[h]ealth inspection signs"; "[s]igns for churches, religious institutions, and schools" (subject to regulations set forth in §35-5); "identification signs" for other not-for-profit organizations; signs "identifying the
location of public transportation stops"; "[g]round signs advertising the
sale or rental of real property," subject to the conditions, set forth in
§35-10, that such signs may "not be attached to any tree, fence or utility
pole" and may contain only the fact of proposed sale or rental and the
seller or agent's name and address or telephone number; "[clommercial
signs in commercially zoned or industrial zoned districts," subject to restrictions set out elsewhere in the ordinance; and signs that "identif[y]
safety hazards." §35-4, id., at 41a, 45a.

CITY OF LADUE v. GILLEO
Opinion of the Court

986 F. 2d, at 1182. Acknowledging that "Ladue's interests
in enacting its ordinance are substantial," the Court of Appeals nevertheless concluded that those interests were "not
sufficiently 'compelling' to support a content-based restriction." Id., at 1183-1184 (citing Simon & Schuster, Inc. v.
Members of N. Y State Crime Victims Bd., 502 U. S. 105,
118 (1991)).
We granted the City of Ladue's petition for certiorari, 510
U. S. 809 (1993), and now affirm.
II
While signs are a form of expression protected by the Free
Speech Clause, they pose distinctive problems that are subject to municipalities' police powers. Unlike oral speech,
signs take up space and may obstruct views, distract motorists, displace alternative uses for land, and pose other problems. that legitimately call for regulation. It is common
ground that governments may regulate the physical characteristics of signs-just as they can, within reasonable bounds
and absent censorial purpose, regulate audible expression in
its capacity as noise. See, e. g., Ward v. Rock Against Racism, 491 U. S. 781 (1989); Kovacs v. Cooper, 336 U. S. 77
(1949). However, because regulation of a medium inevitably
affects communication itself, it is not surprising that we have
had occasion to review the constitutionality of municipal ordinances prohibiting the display of certain outdoor signs.
In Linmark Assotiates, Inc. v. Willingboro, 431 U. S. 85
(1977), we addressed an ordinance that sought to maintain
stable, integrated neighborhoods by prohibiting homeowners
from placing "For Sale" or "Sold" signs on their property.
Although we recognized the importance of Willingboro's
objective, we held that the First Amendment prevented
the township from "achieving its goal by restricting the free
flow of truthful information." Id., at 95. In some respects
Linmark is the mirror image of this case. For instead of
prohibiting "For Sale" signs without banning any other

Cite as: 512 U. S. 43 (1994)
Opinion of the Court

signs, Ladue has exempted such signs from an otherwise virtually complete ban. Moreover, whereas in Linmark we
noted that the ordinance was not concerned with the promotion of esthetic values unrelated to the content of the prohibited speech, id., at 93-94, here Ladue relies squarely on that
content-neutral justification for its ordinance.
In Metromedia, we reviewed an ordinance imposing substantial prohibitions on outdoor advertising displays within
the city of San Diego in the interest of traffic safety and
esthetics. The ordinance generally banned all except those
advertising '.'on-site" activities. 7 The Court concluded that
the city's interest in traffic safety and its esthetic interest in
preventing "visual clutter" could justify a prohibition of offsite commercial billboards even though similar on-site signs
were allowed. 453 U. S., at 511-512.8 Nevertheless, the
Court's judgment in Metromedia,supported by two different
lines of reasoning, invalidated the San Diego ordinance in its

entirety. According to Justice White's plurality opinion, the
ordinance impermissibly discriminated on the basis of content by permitting on-site commercial speech while broadly
prohibiting noncommercial messages. Id., at 514-515. On
7The San Diego ordinance defined "on-site signs" as "those 'designating
the name of the owner or occupant of the premises upon which such signs
are placed, or identifying such premises; or signs advertising goods manufactured or produced or services rendered on the premises upon which
such signs are placed."' Metromedia, Inc. v. San Diego, 453 U. S., at 494.
The plurality read the "on-site" exemption of the San Diego ordinance as
inapplicable to noncommercial messages. See id., at 513. Cf. id., at 535536 (Brennan, J., concurring in judgment). The ordinance also exempted
12 categories of displays, including religious signs; for sale signs; signs
on public and commercial vehicles; and "'[t]emporary political campaign
signs."' Id., at 495, n. 3.
8Five Members of the Court joined Part IV of Justice White's opinion,
which approved of the city's decision to prohibit off-site commercial billboards while permitting on-site billboards. None of the three dissenters
disagreed with Part IV. See id., at 541 (STEVENS, J., dissenting in part)
(joining Part IV); id., at 564-565 (Burger, C. J., dissenting); id., at 570
(REHNQUIST, J., dissenting).

CITY OF LADUE v. GILLEO
Opinion of the Court

the other hand, Justice Brennan, joined by JUSTICE BLACKMUN, concluded that "the practical effect of the San Diego
ordinance [was] to eliminate the billboard as an effective medium of communication" for noncommercial messages, and
that the city had failed to make the strong showing needed
to justify such "content-neutral prohibitions of particular
media of communication." Id., at 525-527. The three dissenters also viewed San Diego's ordinance as tantamount to
a blanket prohibition of billboards, but would have upheld it
because they did not perceive "even a hint of bias or censorship in the city's actions" nor "any reason to believe that the
overall communications market in San Diego is inadequate."
Id., at 552-553 (STEVENS, J., dissenting in part). See also
id., at 563, 566 (Burger, C. J., dissenting); id., at 569-570
(REHNQUIST, J., dissenting).
In Members of City Council of Los Angeles v. Taxpayers
for Vincent, 466 U. S. 789 (1984), we upheld a Los Angeles
ordinance that prohibited the posting of signs on public property. Noting the conclusion shared by seven Justices in
Metromedia that San Diego's "interest in avoiding visual
clutter" was sufficient to justify a prohibition of commercial
billboards, 466 U. S., at 806-807, in Vincent we upheld the
Los Angeles ordinance, which was justified on the same
grounds. We rejected the argument that the validity of the
city's esthetic interest had been compromised by failing
to extend the ban to private property, reasoning that the
"private citizen's interest in controlling the use of his own
property justifies the disparate treatment." Id., at 811.
We also rejected as "misplaced" respondents' reliance on
public forum principles, for they had "fail[ed] to demonstrate
the existence of a traditional right of access respecting such
items as utility poles ... comparable to that recognized for
public streets and parks." Id., at 814.
These decisions identify two analytically distinct grounds
for challenging the constitutionality of a municipal ordinance
regulating the display of signs. One is that the measure in

Cite as: 512 U. S. 43 (1994)
Opinion of the Court

effect restricts too little speech because its exemptions discriminate on the basis of the signs' messages. See Metromedia, 453 U. S., at 512-517 (opinion of White, J.). Alternatively, such provisions are subject to attack on the ground
that they simply prohibit too much protected speech. See
id., at 525-534 (Brennan, J., concurring in judgment). The
City of Ladue contends, first, that the Court of Appeals' reliance on the former rationale was misplaced because the
City's regulatory purposes are content neutral, and, second,
that those purposes justify the comprehensiveness of the
sign prohibition. A comment on the former contention will
help explain why we ultimately base our decision on a rejection of the latter.
III
While surprising at first glance, the notion that a regulation of speech may be impermissibly underinclusive is firmly
grounded in basic First Amendment principles.9 Thus, an
exemption from an otherwise permissible regulation of
speech may represent a governmental "attempt to give one
side of a debatable public question an advantage in expressing its views to the people." First Nat. Bank of Boston
v. Bellotti, 435 U. S. 765, 785-786 (1978). Alternatively,
through the combined operation of a general speech restriction and its exemptions, the government might seek to select
the "permissible subjects for public debate" and thereby to
"control . . . the search for political truth." Consolidated
Edison Co. of N. Y v. Public Serv. Comm'n of N. Y, 447 U. S.
530, 538 (1980). 10
9

Like other classifications, regulatory distinctions among different kinds
of speech may fall afoul of the Equal Protection Clause. See, e. g., Carey
v. Brown, 447 U. S. 455, 459-471 (1980) (ordinance that forbade certain
kinds of picketing but exempted labor picketing violated Clause); Police
Dept. of Chicago v. Mosley, 408 U. S. 92, 98-102 (1972) (same).
10
Of course, not every law that turns on the content of speech is invalid. See generally Stone, Restrictions of Speech Because of its Content: The Peculiar Case of Subject-Matter Restrictions, 46 U. Chi. L. Rev.

CITY OF LADUE v. GILLEO
Opinion of the Court

The City argues that its sign ordinance implicates neither
of these concerns, and that the Court of Appeals therefore
erred in demanding a "compelling" justification for the exemptions. The mix of prohibitions and exemptions in the
ordinance, Ladue maintains, reflects legitimate differences
among the side effects of various kinds of signs. These differences are only adventitiously connected with content, and
supply a sufficient justification, unrelated to the City's approval or disapproval of specific messages, for carving out
the specified categories from the general ban. See Brief for
Petitioners 18-23. Thus, according to the Declaration of
Findings, Policies, Interests, and Purposes supporting the
ordinance, the permitted signs, unlike the prohibited signs,
are unlikely to contribute to the dangers of "unlimited proliferation" associated with categories of signs that are not
inherently limited in number. App. to Pet. for Cert. 37a.
Because only a few residents will need to display "for sale"
or "for rent" signs at any given time, permitting one such
sign per marketed house does not threaten visual clutter.
Ibid. Because the City has only a few businesses, churches,
and schools, the same rationale explains the exemption for
on-site commercial and organizational signs. Ibid. Moreover, some of the exempted categories (e.g., danger signs)
respond to unique public needs to permit certain kinds of
speech. Ibid. Even if we assume the validity of these arguments, the exemptions in Ladue's ordinance nevertheless
shed light on the separate question whether the ordinance
prohibits too much speech.
Exemptions from an otherwise legitimate regulation of a
medium of speech may be noteworthy for a reason quite
apart from the risks of viewpoint and content discrimination:
They may diminish the credibility of the government's rationale for restricting speech in the first place. See, e.g.,
79 (1978).

See also Consolidated Edison Co. of N. Y v. Public Serv.

Comm'n of N. Y, 447 U. S., at 545, and n. 2
judgment).

(STEVENS,

J., concurring in

Cite as: 512 U. S. 43 (1994)
Opinion of the Court

Cincinnati v. Discovery Network, Inc., 507 U. S. 410, 424426 (1993). In this case, at the very least, the exemptions
from Ladue's ordinance demonstrate that Ladue has concluded that the interest in allowing certain messages to be
conveyed by means of residential signs outweighs the City's
esthetic interest in eliminating outdoor signs. Ladue has
not imposed a flat ban on signs because it has determined
that at least some of them are too vital to be banned.
Under the Court of Appeals' content discrimination rationale, the City might theoretically remove the defects in its
ordinance by simply repealing all of the exemptions. If,
however, the ordinance is also vulnerable because it prohibits too much speech, that solution would not save it. Moreover, if the prohibitions in Ladue's ordinance are impermissible, resting our decision on its exemptions would afford scant
relief for respondent Gilleo. She is primarily concerned not
with the scope of the exemptions available in other locations,
such as commercial areas and on church property; she asserts a constitutional right to display an antiwar sign at her
own home. Therefore, we first ask whether Ladue may
properly prohibit Gilleo from displaying her sign, and then,
only if necessary, consider the separate question whether it
was improper for the City simultaneously to permit certain
other signs. In examining the propriety of Ladue's neartotal prohibition of residential signs, we will assume, arguendo, the validity of the City's submission that the various
exemptions are free of impermissible content or viewpoint
discrimination. 1
11
Because we set to one side the content discrimination question, we
need not address the City's argument that the ordinance, although speaking in subject-matter terms, merely targets the "undesirable secondary
effects" associated with certain kinds of signs. See Renton v. Playtime
Theatres, Inc., 475 U. S. 41, 49 (1986). The inquiry we undertake below
into the adequacy of alternative channels of communication would also
apply to a provision justified on those grounds. See id., at 50.

CITY OF LADUE v. GILLEO
Opinion of the Court

IV
In Linmark we held that the city's interest in maintaining
a stable, racially integrated neighborhood was not sufficient
to support a prohibition of residential "For Sale" signs. We
recognized that even such a narrow sign prohibition would
have a deleterious effect on residents' ability to convey important information because alternatives were "far from
satisfactory." 431 U. S., at 93. Ladue's sign ordinance is
supported principally by the City's interest in minimizing
the visual clutter associated with signs, an interest that is
concededly valid but certainly no more compelling than the
interests at stake in Linmark. Moreover, whereas the ordinance in Linmark applied only to a form of commercial
speech, Ladue's ordinance covers even such absolutely pivotal speech as a sign protesting an imminent governmental
decision to go to war.
The impact on free communication of Ladue's broad sign
prohibition, moreover, is manifestly greater than in Linmark. Gilleo and other residents of Ladue are forbidden to
display virtually any "sign" on their property. The ordinance defines that term sweepingly. A prohibition is not
always invalid merely because it applies to a sizeable category of speech; the sign ban we upheld in Vincent, for example, was quite broad. But in Vincent we specifically noted
that the category of speech in question-signs placed on public property-was not a "uniquely valuable or important
mode of communication," and that there was no evidence
that "appellees' ability to communicate effectively is threatened by ever-increasing restrictions on expression." 466
U. S., at 812.
Here, in contrast, Ladue has almost completely foreclosed
a venerable means of communication that is both unique and
important. It has totally foreclosed that medium to political, religious, or personal messages. Signs that react to a
local happening or express a view on a controversial issue
both reflect and animate change in the life of a community.

Cite as: 512 U. S. 43 (1994)

Opinion of the Court

Often placed on lawns or in windows, residential signs play
an important part in political campaigns, during which they
are displayed to signal the resident's support for particular
candidates, parties, or causes.' 2 They may not afford the
same opportunities for conveying complex ideas as do other
media, but residential signs have long been an important and
distinct medium of expression.
Our prior decisions have voiced particular concern with
laws that foreclose an entire medium of expression. Thus,
we have held invalid ordinances that completely banned the
distribution of pamphlets within the municipality, Lovell v.
City of Griffin, 303 U. S. 444, 451-452 (1938); handbills on
the public streets, Jamison v. Texas, 318 U. S.413, 416 (1943);
the door-to-door distribution of literature, Martin v. City of
Struthers, 319 U. S. 141, 145-149 (1943); Schneider v. State
(Town of Irvington), 308 U. S. 147, 164-165 (1939), and live
entertainment, Schad v. Mount Ephraim,452 U. S. 61, 75-76
(1981). See also Frisby v. Schultz, 487 U. S.474, 486 (1988)
(picketing focused upon individual residence is "fundamentally different from more generally directed means of communication that may not be completely banned in residential
areas"). Although prohibitions foreclosing entire media
may be completely free of content or viewpoint discrimination, the danger they pose to the freedom of speech is readily
of speaking, such
apparent-by eliminating a common means
3
measures can suppress too much speech.'
12"[S]mall [political campaign] posters have maximum effect when they

go up in the windows of homes, for this demonstrates that citizens of the

district are supporting your candidate-an impact that money can't buy."
D. Simpson, Winning Elections: A Handbook in Participatory Politics 87
(rev. ed. 1981).

"ISee Stone, Content-Neutral Restrictions, 54 U. Chi. L. Rev. 46, 57-58
(1987):
"[Tihe Court long has recognized that by limiting the availability of partic-

ular means of communication, content-neutral restrictions can significantly
impair the ability of individuals to communicate their views to others....
To ensure 'the widest possible dissemination of information[,]' [Associated

CITY OF LADUE v. GILLEO
Opinion of the Court

Ladue contends, however, that its ordinance is a mere regulation of the "time, place, or manner" of speech because
residents remain free to convey their desired messages by
other means, such as hand-held signs, "letters, handbills,
flyers, telephone calls, newspaper advertisements, bumper
stickers, speeches, and neighborhood or community meetings." Brief for Petitioners 41. However, even regulations
that do not foreclose an entire medium of expression, but
merely shift the time, place, or manner of its use, must
"leave open ample alternative channels for communication."
Clark v. Community for Creative Non-Violence, 468 U. S.
288, 293 (1984). In this case, we are not persuaded that adequate substitutes exist for the important medium of speech
that Ladue has closed off.
Displaying a sign from one's own residence often carries a
message quite distinct from placing the same sign someplace
else, or conveying the same text or picture by other means.
Precisely because of their location, such signs provide information about the identity of the "speaker." As an early and
eminent student of rhetoric observed, the identity of the
speaker is an important component of many attempts to persuade. 14 A sign advocating "Peace in the Gulf" in the front
lawn of a retired general or decorated war veteran may provoke a different reaction than the same sign in a 10-yearold child's bedroom window or the same message on a
bumper sticker of a passing automobile. An espousal of
socialism may carry different implications when displayed
Press v. United States, 326 U. S. 1, 20 (1945),] and the 'unfettered interchange of ideas,' [Roth v. United States, 354 U. S. 476, 484 (1957),] the
first amendment prohibits not only content-based restrictions that censor
particular points of view, but also content-neutral restrictions that unduly
constrict the opportunities for free expression."
"'See Aristotle 2, Rhetoric, Book 1, ch. 2, in 8 Great Books of the Western World, Encyclopedia Brittanica 595 (M. Adler ed., 2d ed. 1990) ("We
believe good men more fully and more readily than others: this is true
generally whatever the question is, and absolutely true where exact certainty is impossible and opinions are divided").

Cite as: 512 U. S. 43 (1994)
Opinion of the Court

on the grounds of a stately mansion than when pasted on a
factory wall or an ambulatory sandwich board.
Residential signs are an unusually cheap and convenient
form of communication. Especially for persons of modest
means or limited mobility, a yard or window sign may have
no practical substitute. Cf. Vincent, 466 U. S., at 812-813,
n. 30; Anderson v. Celebrezze, 460 U. S. 780, 793-794 (1983);
Martin v. City of Struthers, 319 U. S., at 146; Milk Wagon
Drivers v. Meadowmoor Dairies, Inc., 312 U. S. 287, 293
(1941). Even for the affluent, the added costs in money or
time of taking out a newspaper advertisement, handing out
leaflets on the street, or standing in front of one's house with
a hand-held sign may make the difference between participating and not participating in some public debate.15 Furthermore, a person who puts up a sign at her residence
often intends to reach neighbors, an audience that could not
be reached nearly as well by other means. 16
'5The precise location of many other kinds of signs (aside from "on-site"
signs) is of lesser communicative importance. For example, assuming the
audience is similar, a commercial advertiser or campaign publicist is likely
to be relatively indifferent between one sign site and another. The elimination of a cheap and handy medium of expression is especially apt to
deter individualsfrom communicating their views to the public, for unlike
businesses (and even political organizations) individuals generally realize
few tangible benefits from such communication. Cf Virginia Bd. of
Pharmacy v. Virginia Citizens Consumer Council, Inc., 425 U. S. 748,
772, n. 24 (1976) ("Since advertising is the sine qua non of commercial
profits, there is little likelihood of its being chilled by proper regulation
and forgone entirely").
1'Counsel for Ladue has also cited flags as a viable alternative to signs.
Counsel observed that the ordinance does not restrict flags of any stripe,
including flags bearing written messages. See Tr. of Oral Arg. 16, 21
(noting that rectangular flags, unlike "pennants" and "banners," are not
prohibited by the ordinance). Even assuming that flags are nearly as affordable and legible as signs, we do not think the mere possibility that
another medium could be used in an unconventional manner to carry the
same messages alters the fact that Ladue has banned a distinct and traditionally important medium of expression. See, e. g., Schneider v. State
(Town of Irvington), 308 U. S.147, 163 (1939).

CITY OF LADUE v. GILLEO
Opinion of the Court

A special respect for individual liberty in the home has
long been part of our culture and our law, see, e. g., Payton
v. New York, 445 U. S. 573, 596-597, and nn. 44-45 (1980);
that principle has special resonance when the government
seeks to constrain a person's ability to speak there. See
Spence v. Washington, 418 U. S. 405, 406, 409, 411 (1974) (per
curiam). Most Americans would be understandably dismayed, given that tradition, to learn that it was illegal to
display from their window an 8- by 11-inch sign expressing
their political views. Whereas the government's need to
mediate among various competing uses, including expressive
ones, for public streets and facilities is constant and unavoidable, see Cox v. New Hampshire, 312 U. S. 569, 574, 576
(1941); see also Widmar v. Vincent, 454 U. S. 263, 278 (1981)
(STEVENS, J., concurring in judgment), its need to regulate
temperate speech from the home is surely much less pressing, see Spence, 418 U. S., at 409.
Our decision that Ladue's ban on almost all residential
signs violates the First Amendment by no means leaves the
City powerless to address the ills that may be associated
with residential signs.17 It bears mentioning that individual
residents themselves have strong incentives to keep their
own property values up and to prevent "visual clutter" in
their own yards and neighborhoods-incentives markedly
different from those of persons who erect signs on others'
land, in others' neighborhoods, or on public property. Residents' self-interest diminishes the danger of the "unlimited"
proliferation of residential signs that concerns the City of
Ladue. We are confident that more temperate measures
could in large part satisfy Ladue's stated regulatory needs
17

Nor do we hold that every kind of sign must be permitted in residential areas. Different considerations might well apply, for example, in the
case of signs (whether political or otherwise) displayed by residents for a
fee, or in the case of off-site commercial advertisements on residential
property. We also are not confronted here with mere regulations short
of a ban.

Cite as: 512 U. S. 43 (1994)

O'CONNOR, J., concurring

without harm to the First Amendment rights of its citizens.
As currently framed, however, the ordinance abridges those
rights.
Accordingly, the judgment of the Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.
JUSTICE O'CONNOR,

concurring.

It is unusual for us, when faced with a regulation that on
its face draws content distinctions, to "assume, arguendo,the
validity of the City's submission that the various exemptions
are free of impermissible content or viewpoint discrimination." Ante, at 53. With rare exceptions, content discrimination in regulations of the speech of private citizens
on private property or in a traditional public forum is presumptively impermissible, and this presumption is a very
strong one. Simon & Schuster, Inc. v. Members of N. Y
State Crime Victims Bd., 502 U. S. 105, 115-116 (1991). The
normal inquiry that our doctrine dictates is, first, to determine whether a regulation is content based or content neutral, and then, based on the answer to that question, to apply
the proper level of scrutiny. See, e. g., Burson v. Freeman,
504 U. S. 191, 197-198 (1992) (plurality opinion); Forsyth
County v. Nationalist Movement, 505 U. S. 123, 133-135
(1992); Simon & Schuster, supra, at 115-116; Boos v. Barry,
485 U. S. 312, 318-321 (1988) (plurality opinion); Arkansas
Writers' Project, Inc. v. Ragland, 481 U. S. 221, 229-231
(1987); Carey v. Brown, 447 U. S. 455, 461-463 (1980); Police
Dept. of Chicago v. Mosley, 408 U. S. 92, 95, 98-99 (1972).
Over the years, some cogent criticisms have been leveled
at our approach. See, e. g., R. A. V v. St. Paul, 505 U. S.
377, 420-422 (1992) (STEVENS, J., concurring in judgment);
ConsolidatedEdison Co. of N. Y v. Public Serv. Comm'n of
N. Y, 447 U. S. 530, 544-548 (1980) (STEVENS, J., concurring
in judgment); Farber, Content Regulation and the First
Amendment: A Revisionist View, 68 Geo. L. J. 727 (1980);

CITY OF LADUE v. GILLEO
O'CONNOR, J.,

concurring

Stephan, The First Amendment and Content Discrimination,
68 Va. L. Rev. 203 (1982). And it is quite true that regulations are occasionally struck down because of their contentbased nature, even though common sense may suggest that
they are entirely reasonable. The content distinctions present in this ordinance may, to some, be a good example of this.
But though our rule has flaws, it has substantial merit as
well. It is a rule, in an area where fairly precise rules are
better than more discretionary and more subjective balancing tests. See Hustler Magazine, Inc. v. Falwell, 485 U. S.
46, 52-53 (1988). On a theoretical level, it reflects important
insights into the meaning of the free speech principle-for
instance, that content-based speech restrictions are especially likely to be improper attempts to value some forms of
speech over others, or are particularly susceptible to being
used by the government to distort public debate. See, e. g.,
ante, at 51-53; Mosley, supra, at 95; Stone, Content Regulation and the First Amendment, 25 Win. & Mary L. Rev. 189
(1983). On a practical level, it has in application generally
led to seemingly sensible results. And, perhaps most importantly, no better alternative has yet come to light.
I would have preferred to apply our normal analytical
structure in this case, which may well have required us to
examine this law with the scrutiny appropriate to contentbased regulations. Perhaps this would have forced us to
confront some of the difficulties with the existing doctrine;
perhaps it would have shown weaknesses in the rule, and led
us to modify it to take into account the special factors this
case presents. But such reexamination is part of the process by which our rules evolve and improve.
Nonetheless, I join the Court's opinion, because I agree
with its conclusion in Part IV that even if the restriction
were content neutral, it would still be invalid, and because I
do not think Part III casts any doubt on the propriety of our
normal content discrimination inquiry.

