OCTOBER TERM, 1958.
Syllabus.

360 U. S.

NAPUE v. ILLINOIS.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 583.

Argued April 30, 1959.-Decided June 15, 1959.

At petitioner's trial in a state court in which he was convicted of
murder, the principal state witness, an accomplice then serving a
199-year sentence for the same murder, testified in 'response to a
question by the Assistant State's Attorney that he had received no
promise of consideration in return for his testimony. The Assistant
State's Attorney had in fact promised him consideration, but he
did nothing to correct the witness' false testimony. The jury was
apprised, however, that.a public defender had promised "to do what
he could" for the witness. Held: The failure of the prosecutor-to
correct the testimony of the witness which he knew to be false
denied petitioner due process of law in violation of-the Fourteenth
Amendment. Pp. 265-272.
(a) The established principle that a State may not knowingly
use false testimony to obtain a tainted conviction does not ceaae
to apply merely because the false testimony goes only to the
credibility of the witness. Pp. 269-270.
(b) The fat that the jury was apprised of other grounds for
believing that the witness may have had an interest in testifying
against petitioner was not sufficient to turn what was otherwise
a tainted trial into a fair one. Pp. 270-271.
. (c) Since petitioner claims denial of his rights under the Federal
Constitution, this Court was not bound by the factual conclusion
reached by the Illinois Supreme Court, but reexamined for itself
the evidentiary basis on which that conclusion was founded.
Pp. 271-272.
13 Ill. 2d 566, 150 N. E. 2d 613, reversed.

George N. Leighton argued the cause and filed a brief
for petitioner.

William C. Wines, Assistant Attorney General of Illinois, argued*the cause for respondent. With him on the
brief were Latham Castle, Attorney General of Illinois,
'Raymond S.

Sarnow and A.

Attorneys General.

Zola Graves, Assistant

NAPUE v. ILLINOIS.
264

265

Opinion of the Court.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WARREN

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
At the murder trial. of petitioner the principal state
witness, then serving a 199-year sentence for the same
murder, testified in response to a question by the Assistant
State's Attorney that he had received no promise of consideration in return for his testimony. The Assistant
State's Attorney had in fact promised him consideration,
but did nothing to correct the witness' false testimony.
The jury was apprised, however, that a public defender
had promised "to do what he could" for the witness. The
question presented is whether on these facts the failure
of the prosecutor to correct the testimony of the witness
which he knew to be false denied petitioner due process
.of law in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment to the
Constitution. of the United States.
The record in this Court contains testimony from which
the following facts could have been found. The murder
in question occurred early in the morning of August 21,
1938, in a Chicago, Illinois, cocktail lounge., Petitioner
Henry Napue, the witness George Hamer, one Poe and
one Townsend entered the dimly lighted lounge and
announced their intention to rob those present. An
off-duty policeman, present in the lounge, drew his service
revolver and began firing at the four men. In the melee
that followed Townsend was killed, the officer was fatally
wounded, and the witness Hamer was seriously wounded.
Napue and Poe carried Hamer to the car where a fifth
man, one Webb, was waiting. In due course Hamer was
apprehended, tried for the murder of the policeman, convicted on his plea of guilty and sentenced to 199 years.
Subsequently, Poe was apprehended, tried, convicted,
sentenced to death and executed. Hamer was not-used
as a witness.
Thereafter, petitioner Napue was apprehended. He
was put on trial with IHamer being the principal witness

OCTOBER TERM, 1958.
Opinion of the Court.

360 U. S.

for the State. Hamer's testimony was extremely important because the passage of time and the dim light in the
cocktail lounge made eyewitness identification very difficult and uncertain, and because some pertinent witnesses
had left the state. On the basis of the evidence presented, which consisted largely of Hamer's testimony,
the jury returned a guilty verdict and petitioner' was
sentenced -to 199 years.
Finally, the driver of the car, Webb, was apprehended.
Hamer also testified against him. He was convicted of
murder and sentenced-to 199 years.
Following the conviction of Webb, the lawyer who, as
former Assistant State's Attorney, had prosecuted the
Hamer, Poe,and Napue cases filed a petition in the nature
of a writ of error coram nobis on behalf of Hamer. In
the petition he alleged that as proseeuting attorney he had
promised Hamer that if he would testify against Napue,
"a recommendation for a reduction of his [Hamer's] sentence would be made and, if possible, effectuated." 1 The
'In relevant part, his petition read as follows:
"After Hamer was sentenced your petitioner [the Assistant State's
Attorney] well knowing that identification of Poe, Napue and Webb
if and when apprehended would be of an unsatisfactory character
and not the kind of evidence upon which a jury could be asked to
inflict a proper, severe penalty, and being unable to determine in
advance whether Poe, Napue and Webb would make confessions
of their participation in the crime, represented to Hamer that if he
would be willing to cooperate with law enforcing officials upon the
trial of [sic] trials of Poe, Napue and Webb when they were apprehended, that a recommendation for a reduction of his sentence would
be made-and, if possible, effectuated.
"Before testifying on behalf of the State and against Napue, Hamer
expressed to your petitioner a reluctance to cooperate any further
unless he were given definite assurance that a recommendation for
reduction of his sentence would be made. Your petitioner, feeling
that the interests of justice required Hamer's testimony, again assured
Hamer that every possible effort would be made to conform to the
promise previously made to him."

NAPUE v. ILLINOIS.
264

Opinion of the Court.

attorney prayed that the court would effect "consummationi of the compact entered into between the duly
authorized representatives of the State of Illinois and
George Hamer."
This coram nobis proceeding came to the attention of
Napue, who thereafter filed a post-conviction petition, in
which he alleged that Hamer had falsely testified that he
had been promised no consideration for his testimony,
and that the Assistant State's Attorney handling the case
had known this to be false. A hearing was ultimately
held at which the former Assistant State's Attorney testified that he had only'promised to help Hamer if Hamer's
story "about being a reluctant participant" in the robbery
was borne out, and not merely if Hamer would testify at
petitioner's trial. He testified that in his coram nobis
petition on Hamer's behalf he "probably used some language that [he] should not.have uged" in his "zeal to do
something for Hamer" to whom he "felt a moral obligation." The lower court denied petitioner relief on the
basis of the attorney's testimony.
On appeal, the Illinois Supreme Court affirmed on different'grounds over two dissents. 13-Ill. 2d 566,150 N.'E.h
2d 613. It fqund,' contrary to the trial dourt, that the
attorney had promised Hamer consideration if he would
testify at petitioner's trial, a finding which the State does
not contest here. It further found that the Assistant
State's Attorney knew that Hamer had lied in denying that
2 The alleged false testimony of Hamer first occurred on his crossexamination:
"Q. Did anybody give you a reward or promise you a reward for
testifying?
"A. There ain't nobody promised me anything."
On redirect examination the Assistant State's Attorney again
elicited' the same false answer.

"Q. [by the Assistant State's Attorney] Have I promised you that
I would recommend any reduction of sentence to anybody?
"A. You did not."

OCTOBER TERM 1958.
Opinion of the Court.

360 U. S.

he had been promised consideration. It held, however,
that petitioner was entitled to no relief since the jury had
already been apprised that someone whom Hamer had
tentatively identified as being a public defender "was
going to do what he could" in aid of Hamer, and "was
trying to get something did" for him.' We granted cerThe following is Hamer's testimony on me subject:
"Q. [on cross-examination] And didn't you tell him [one of Napue's
attorneys] that you wouldn't testify in this case unless you got some
consideration for it?
"A. . . . Yes, I did; I told him that.
"Q. What are you sentenced for?
"A. One Hundred and Ninety-Nine Years.
"Q. You hope to have that reduced, don't you?
"A. Well, if anybody would help me or do anything for me, why
certainly I would.
"Q. Weren't you expecting that when you came here today?
"A. There haven't no one told we anything, no more than the
lawyer. The lawyer come in and talked to me a while ago and said
he was going to do what he could.
"Q. Which lawyer was that?
"A. I don't know; it was a Public Defendeir.: I don't see him in
here.
"Q. You mean he was from the Public Defender's office?
"A. I imagine that is where he was from, I don't know"Q. And he was the one who told you that?
"A. Yes, he told me he was trying to get something did for me.
"Q. . . . And he told you he was going to do something for you?
"A. He said he was going to try to.
"Q. And you told them [police officers] you would [testify at
the trial of Napue] but you expected some consideration for it?
"A. I asked them was there any chance of me getting any. The
man told me he didn't know, that he couldn't promise me anything.
"Q. Then you spoke to a lawyer today who said he would try to
get your time cut?
"A. That was this Public Defender. I don't even know his
name. .. ."

NAPUE v. ILLINOIS.
264

Opinion of the Court.

tiorari to consider the question posed in the first paragraph
of this opifiion. 358 U. S. 919.
First, it is established that a conviction obtained
through use of false evidence, known to be such by representatives of the State, must fall under the Fourteenth
Amendment, Mooney v. Holohan, 294 U. S.103; Pyle v.
Kansas, 317 U. S.213; Curranv. Delaware,259 F. 2d 707.
See New York ex rel. Whitman v. Wilson, 318 U. S.688,
and White v. Ragen, 324 U. S.760. Compare Jones v.
Commonwealth, 97 F. 2d 335, 338, with In re Sawyer's
Petition, 229 F. 2d 805, 809. Cf. Mesarosh v. United
States, 352 U. S. 1. The same result obtains when the
State, although not soliciting false evidence, allows it to
go uncorrected when it appears. Alcorta v. Texas, 355
U. S. 28; United States ex rel. Thompson v. Dye, 221
F. 2d 763; United States ex rel. Almeida v. Baldi, 195
F. 2d 815;" United States ex rel. Montgomery v. Ragen,
86 F. Supp. 382. See generally annotation, 2 L. Ed. 2d
1575.
The principle that a State may not knowingly use false
evidence, including false testimony, to obtain a tainted
conviction, implicit in any concept of ordered liberty,
does not cease to apply merely because the false testimony
goes only to the credibility of the witness. The jury's
estimate of the truthfulness and reliability of a given
witness may well be determinative of guilt or innocence,
and it is upon such subtle factors as the possible interest
of the witness in testifying falsely that a defendant's life
or liberty may depend. As stated by the New York Court
of Appeals in a case very similar to this one, People v.
Savvides, 1 N. Y. 2d 554, 557; 136 N. E. 2d 853, 854-855;
887:
154 N. Y. S. 2d 885,
"It is of no consequence that the falsehood bore
upon the witness' credibility rather than directly
upon defendant's guilt. A lie is a lie, no matter

OCTOBER TERM, 1958.
Opinion of the Court.

360 U. S.

what its subject, and, if it is in any way relevant to
the case, the district attorney has the responsibility
and duty to correct what he knows to be false and
elicit the truth. . . . That the district attorney's
silence was not the result of guile or a desire to prejudice matters little, for its impact was the same, preventing, as it did, a trial that could in any real sense
be termed fair."
Second, we do not believe that the fact that the jury
was apprised of other grounds for believing that the witness Hamer may have had an interest in testifying against
petitioner turned what was otherwise a tainted trial into
a fair one.. As Mr. Justice Schaefer, joined by Chief
Justice Davis, rightly put it in his dissenting opinion
below, 13 Ill. 2d 566, 571, 150 N. E. 2d 613, 616:
"What is overlooked here is that Hamer clearly
testified that no one had offered to help him except
an unidentified lawyer from the public defender's
office."

Had the jury been apprised of the true facts, however, it
might well have concluded that Hamer had fabricated
testimony in order to curry the favor of the very representative of the State who was prosecuting the case in
which Hamer was testifying, for Hamer might. have
believed that such a representative was in a position to
implement (as he ultimately attempted to do) any
promise of consideration. That the Assistant State's
Attorney himself thought it important to establish before
the jury that no official source had promised Hamer consideration is made clear by his redirect examination, which
was the last testimony of Hamer's heard by the jury:
"Q. Mr. Hamer, has Judge Prystalski [the trial
judge] promised you any reduction of sentence?

NAPUE v. ILLINOIS.
264

Opinion of the Court.

"A. No, sir.
"Q. Have I promised you that I would recommend
any reduction of sentenceto anybody?
"A. You did not. [That answer was false and
known to be so by the prosecutor.]
"Q. Has any Judge of the criminal court promised
that they [sic] would reduce your sentence?
"A. No, sir.
"Q. Has any representative of the Parole Board
been to see you and promised you a reduction of
sentence?
"A. No, sir.
"Q. Has any representative of the Governor of
the State of Illinois promised you a reduction of
sentence?
"A. No, sir."
We are therefore unable to agree with the Illinois Supreme
Court that "there was no constitutional infirmity by virtue
of the false statement."
Third, the State argues that we are not free to reach a
factual conclusion different from that reached by the Illinois Supreme Court, and that we are bound by its determination that the false testimony could not in any reasonable likelihood have affected the judgment of the jury.
The State relies on Hysler v. Florida,315 U. S. 411. But
in that case the Court held only that a state standard of
specificity and substantiality in making allegations of
federal constitutional deprivations would be respected,
and this Court made its own "independent examination"
of the allegations there to determine if they had in fact
met the Florida standard. The duty of this Court to make
its own independent examination of the record when
federal constitutional deprivations are alleged is clear,
resting, as it does, on our solemn responsibility for maintaining the Constitution inviolate. Martin v. Hunter's
Lessee, 1 Wheat. 304; Cooper v. Aaron, 358 U. S. 1.

OCTOBER TERM, 1958.
Opinion of the Court.

360 U. S.

This principle was' well stated in Niemotko v. Maryland,
340 U. S. 268, 271:
"In cases in which there is a claim of denial of
rights under the Federal Constitution, this Court is
not bound by the conclusions of lower courts, but will
reexamine the evidentiary basis on which those
conclusions are founded."
It is now so well settled that the Court was able to speak
in Kern-Limerick, Inc., v. Scurlock, 347 U. S. 110, 121,
of the "long course of judicial construction which establishes as a principle that the duty rests on this Court to
decide for itself facts or constructions upon which federal
constitutional issues rest." ' As previously indicated, our
own evaluation of the record here compels us to hold that
the false testimony used by the State in securing the conviction of petitioner may have had an effect on the
outcome of the trial. Accordingly, the judgment below
must be
Reversed.
4 See, e. g., Payne v. Arkansas, 356 U. S. 560, 562; Leyra v. Denno,
347 U. S. 556,. 558; Avery v. Georgia, 345 U. S. 559, 561; Feiner v.
New York, 340 U. S. 315, 322, 323, note 4 (dissenting opinion);
Cassell v. Texas, 339 U. S. 282, 283; Haley v. Ohio, 332 U. S. 596,
599; Malinski v. New York, 324 U. S. 401, 404; Ashcraft v. Tennessee,
322 U. S. 143, 149; Ward v. Texas, 316 U. S. 547, 550; Smith v.
Texas, 311 U. S. 128, 130; South Carolina v. Bailey, 289 U. S. 412,
420. See also, e. g., Roth v. United States, 354 U. S. 476, 497 (dissenting opinion); Stroble v. California,343 U. S. 181, 190; Sterling v.
Constantin, 287 U. S. 378, 398; Southern Pacific Co. v. Schuyler, 227
U. S. 601, 611; Creswill v. Grand Lodge Knights of Pythias, 225
U. S. 246, 261.
Mr. Justice Holmes, writing for the Court, recognized the principle
over 35 years ago in Davis v. Wechsler, 263 U. S. 22, 24:
"If the Constitution and laws of the United States are to be enforced, this Court cannot accept as final the decision of a state
tribunal as to what are the facts alleged to give rise to the right
or to bar the assertion of it even upon local grounds."

