THE BARBED WIRE PATENT.
Statement of the Case.

THE BARBED WIRE PATENT. 1
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF IOWA.
No. 128. Argued December 16, 17, 1891.

-Decided

February 29, 1892.

The invention secured to Joseph F. Glidden by letters patent No. 157,124,
dated November 24, 1874, for an improvement in wire fences, involved
invention, and the patent therefor is valid.
Courts incline to sustain a patent to the man who takes the final step in the
invention which turns failure into success.
When an unpatented device, the existence and use of which are proven only
by oral testimony, is set up as a complete anticipation of a patent, the
proof sustaining it must be clear, satisfactory and beyond a reasonable
doubt.

THIS was a bill in equity for the infringement of letters
patent No. 157,124, issued to Joseph F. Glidden, November
'24, 1874, for an "Improvement in Wire Fences." In his spec:
ification the patentee stated that "this invention has relation
to means for preventing cattle from breaking through wire
fences; and it consists in combining, with the twisted fencewires, a short transverse wire, coiled or bent at its central portion about one of the wire strands of the twist, with its free
ends projecting in opposite directions, the other wire strand
serving to bind the spur-wire firmly to its place, and in position, with its spur-ends perpendicular to the direction of the
fence-wire, lateral movement, as well as vibration, being prevented. It also consists in the construction and novel arrangement, in connection with such a twisted fence-wire and its
spur-wires, connected and arranged as above described, of a
twisting key or head-piece passing through the fence-post, carrying the ends of the fence-wires, and serving, when the spurs
I Three appeals relating to this patent taken from decrees of the
Court for the Northern District of Iowa, were consolidated and
together, viz.: No. 128, Wfashburn & MJoen Manufacturing Company
Beat 'em all Barbed Wire Company; No. 129, Same v. Norwood; and
Same v. Wiler.

Circuit
argued
y. The
No. 30,

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

become loose, to tighten the twist of the wires, and thus render them rigid and firm in position."
Ris claim was for "a twisted fence-wire having the transverse spur-wire D bent at its middle portion about one of the'
-wire strands a of said fence-wire, and clamped in position and
place by the other wire strand z, twisted upon its fellow, substantially as specified." The following drawings accompanied
the specification:
GLIDDEN

PA TENT
_W
ig. 1.

The bill also -relied upon certain decrees obtained in other
districts against other defendants, which were claimed to have
established the validity of the patent. The answer denied
that, in view of the state of the art at the time this patent was
issued, there was any invention in the device described, and
averred that the decrees set forth in the bill were collusively
and fraudulently obtained; and also set forth an opinion of
the Circuit Court of the United States for the INorthern Dis-

THE BARBED WIRE PATENT.
Opinion of the Court.

trict of Illinois to the effect that the patent was void for want
of novelty.

Waskbura & .foen 2ffg. Co. v. Hais, 10 Bis-

sell, 65.
.Me. Johnn .[2. Bennett for appellants.
M>. A. T. Blair and .Er. William H. Singleton for appellees. .lk. D. B. fienderson,filed a brief for same.
MR. JUSTICE BRow N delivered the opinion of the court.

No serious question is or can be made regarding the infringement in this suit, the defendants relying solely upon the want
of novelty. To determine satisfactorily the question whether
there is involved in this device sufficient of novelty to support
a patent, it is necessary to consider somewhat at length the
prcdgress which had been made in constructing barbed wire
fences prior to the issue of this patent, as it appears both from
the face of the prior patents themselves and from the oral evidence introduced by the defendants tending to show an unpatented use of such device before the application was made
in this case.
(1) The use of wire fences, composed either of a single wire,
or of two or more wires twisted together, antedates by many
years the barbed feature of such fences. But, either by reason
of their comparative invisibility or their weakness, they proved
an insufficient protection against cattle, and fell largely into
.disuse. Something was needed, not so much to strengthen
them, as to deter cattle from encountering them or testing
their strength. Natural hedges of thorn, which in effect contain the principle of the barbed wire, have been employed
both in this country and in England from time immemorial.
Fences of other materials and various forms had been armed
with pickets, spurs, iron points, spikes, sharp stones, or bits of
broken glass inserted in plaster, but prior to 1867 no one seems
to have conceived the idea of arming wire fences with a similar protecting device. In July of that year, however, one
William D. Hunt took out a patent for arming the wires with
a series of small spur-wheels, their spurs being sharpened so as

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

to prick readily. These wheels were provided with openings
at their centres through which the wire passed, fitting it
loosely so that the wheel would revolve easily upon it. There
was a provision sometimes used and oftener not, for keeping
the spurs in their places, and at suitable distances apart, by
means of flanges. This was obviously a crude and unsatisfactory device, and never seems to have gone into general use.
The spurs were small serrated wheels revolving loosely about
a wire, aided by flat bits 'f metal to render them more readily
visible, and kept in place, if at all, by a clumsy and expensive
flange.
In the same year, and about four weeks before the patent
to Hunt, although his actual invention was antedated by Hunt
in point of time, Lucien B. Smith took out a patent for a wire
fence, having spools of iron or wood strung upon it, each spool
being perforated and provided with four spurs projecting radially from them, and . so arranged that they would revolve,
while they were held in place lengthwise of the wires by slight
bends or deflections in the wires at a distance of two or three
feet apart, forming short straight lengths of about four inches,
upon which the spools were hung. This patent contained the
first suggestion of a barb proper, though in a very imperfect
form; but it embodied an idea of which the public was not
slow to avail itself, and gave an impetus to succeeding inventors, which finally resulted in the barbed fence now in use.
Though valuable as illustrating the state of the art, it will
scarcely be claimed to be an anticipation of the Glidden
device.
The patent of February 11, 1868, to Michael Kelly indicated
a'decided step in advance of its predecessors, consisting as it
did of small flat pieces -of iron or steel, cut from a plate by
machinery, each provided- with a hole corresponding with the
size of the wire, though a little larger, so that they could be
introduced easily upon the wire, 'either by proper machinery
or by hand. "These pieces," says the patentee, "after being
strung on the wire at distances about six inches apart, are compressed laterally upon the wire by a blow of a hammer, or
otherwise, so -as to flatten the hole e, and also correspondingly

THE BARBED WIRE PATENT.
Opinion of the Court.

flatten the wire at the point where this adjunct is to stand. I
term these pieces 'thorns;' and it will be observed that each
presents two sharp points. They may be so placed that they.
will all stand in the same plane; or they may stand irregular
in many different planes. I prefer the latter arrangement.
The wire thus provided with the sharp points or thorns serves
in the ordinary manner, with the addition of possessing an
offensive character, which will soon teach cattle to respect it
and not attempt to force it.", Yigur 2 of this patent, a representation of which is here given, undoubtedly contained the
idea subsequently developed by Glidden, but there was apparently no method of holding the barb in place, save by a blow
of a hammer - at least such seems to have been the opinion of
the patentee at the time the patent was originally issued. He
KELLY PATENT

oA
says of this in his specification: "I can, where it is desirable
to increase the strength of the wire, lay another wire of the
same o- a different size alongside of a thorn-wire, and can twist
the two together by any suitable mechanism." No claim was
made for this method of construction in the original patent,
although it seems to have been made the principal, feature of a
reissue obtained in 1876, which was not made an exhibit in this
case. In this reissue he made a claim for twisting two wires
and a series of t orns strung upon one of the wires and held in
position by them. In the case of Wa sburn & .Moen -Aanufict adniig Company v. _Puck, 16 Fed. Rep. 661, it was held
that if this reissued patent were to be considered as covering.
more than the mode of fastening the plate barbs to the wire in
the combination stated, i.e. by hammering, and as extending

OCTOBER TERif, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

the use of the twisted wire so as to include its use for the distribution and locking of all kinds of barbs, the reissue was invalid as to such extension, because it was not included within
the scope of the original invention. It is evident from this
that the use of the second twisted wire for the purpose of locking the thorn was not contemplated by the patentee at the
time his patent was originally granted, but was an afterthought
sugested by other devices which in the meantime had made
their appearance.
A second patent to Kelly, issued November 17, 1868, exhibits
a fiat wire pierced at intervals of six inches, through which
thorns were inserted and locked to the wire by the blow of a
hammer or otherwise. This device evidently bears a much
more distant resemblance to the Glidden patent than the prior
one, and is far from being an anticipation.
The application for the patent in suit was filed October 27,
1873, though the patent was not issued until November 24,
1874. Subsequent to the application for this patent, and on
:Mareh 14, 1874, Glidden filed an application for an improvement in wire stretchers for fences, upon which a patent was
issued May 12, 1874. It is not perceived how this patent could
affect in any way the pending application for the later patent.
The patentee abandoned nothing he had claimed before, but
sought, as an improvement upon the former, to claim a slotted
tube midway between the posts, in which was put a coil spring
to spread the wires and automatically tighten them and keep
them at the proper tension as against expansion by heat and
contraction by cold. If the later application had covered the
same invention as the prior application for the November
patent, the later patent might have been voidunder our ruling
in S folk Company v. Hayden, 3 Wall. 315 ; but his claim was
for a combination of wires with the slotted tube, containing a
coiled spring and perched upon a post. In this application he
makes no mention whatever of barbs as a feature of his claim,
although in describing his invention he mentions the use of
two wires'provided at suitable intervals with spurs coiled around
them, and which are spread apart between the coils to keep the
latter from moving longitudinally upon the wires. But he

THE BARBED WIRE PATENT.
Opinion of the Court.

says of these spurs: "I do not claim to have originated the
devices known as 'spurs' or 'prongs' on the wires, they having been used before, but confine myself to the means for holding the spurs at proper intervals on the wires and to the means
for attaining a uniform tension of the wires, as claimed." This
disclaimer, it will be observed, is of spurs or prongs generally
- not of the coiled barb either alone or in combination with
the twisted wires -and is made with reference to that application'only. It is true that this patent was subsequently reissued with a broadly expanded claim for a combination with a
fence-wire of a barb formed of a short piece of pointed wire,
secured in place upon the fence wire by coiling between its
ends, forming two projecting points; but this reissue was held
to be unwarranted and void in Washburn & J1Aoem -Manufact&riny Company v. Fucks, 16 Fed. Rep. 661, 667. This attempted reissue, however, did not in any way affect his original
application, whibh stood upon its own merits, and, after being
rejected and amended three times, was finally passed, with- a
claim substantially identical with the first claim of the original
application, and the patent granted. JIn legal effect this was a
prior patent, since the date of the application and not the date
of the patent controls in determining the legal effect to be
given to two patents issued at different dates to the same inventor and the order in which they are to be considered. In
any event, the reissue in 1876 of one patent would not affect
another patent granted in 1874.
From this review of the state of the art at the time the patent in suit was issued it is evident that Glidden can neither
claim broadly the use of the plain or the twisted wire, nor the
sharp thorns or barbs, nor indeed the combination of the two
as they appear in the Kelly patent. It does not follow, however, that he did not make amost valuable contribution to the
art of wire fencing in the introduction of the coiled barb, in
combination with the twisted wire, by which it is clamped and
held in position. By this device the barb was prevented from
turning or moving laterally and was held rigidly in place. If
this be also true of the device shown in Figure 2 of the Kelly
patent of February 11, 1868, the immobility of the barb in that

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

patent is due to the aid of a blow struck by a hammer, since
the mere fact that the barbs were strung upon the wires would
not of itself prevent a movement within certain limits unless
they were held fast by compression. Indeed, it is obvious, as
the patentee says, that the effect of the second wire is simply
to increase the strength of the wire, and not, as in the Glidden
patent, to hold the barb rigidly in place, though, of course, it
would prevent its movement to any considerable extent in either
direction. All he says of it in this connection is that "it tends
to insure a regularity in the distribution of the points in many
different directions." The vital difference in the two patents
is in the shape of the barb itself. In one .case a fiat bit of
metal is used of an elongated diamond shape, through which a
hole is pierced, by means of which it is strung upon the wire,
requiring something more than the aid of a second wire twisted
upon the first to render it immovable. In the other the barb
is a piece of wire coiled about one of the fence wires, and held
rigidly in place by the twisting of another wire about the first.
It'is true that the affixing of barbs to a fence-wire does not
apparently give a wide scope to the ingenuity of the inventor;
but from the crude device of Hunt to the perfected wirb of
Glidden, each patent has marked a step in the progress in the
art. The difference between the Kelly fence and the Glidden
fence is not a radical one, but slight as it may seem to be, it was
apparently this which made the barbed-wire fence a practical
and commercial success. The inventions of Hunt and Smith
appear to be scarcely more than tentative, and never to have
gone into general use. The sales of the Kelly patent never
seem to have exceeded 3000 tons per annum, while plaintiff's
manufacture and sales of the Glidden deviee (substituting a
sharp barb for a blunt one) rose rapidly from 50 tons in 1874
to 44,000 tons in 1886, while those of its licensees in 1887
reached the enormous am~ount of 173,000 tons. Indeed, one
who has travelled upon the western plains of this continent cannot have failed to notice the very large amount of territory
enclosed by these fences which otherwise, owing to the great
scarcity of wood, would have to be left unprotected.
Under such circumstances courts have not been reluctant to

THE BARBED WIRE PATENT.
Opinion of the Court.

sustain a patent to the man who has taken the final step which
has turned a failure into a success. In the law of patents it is
the last step that wins. It may be strange that, considering
the important results obtained by Kelly in his patent, it did
not occur to him to substitute a coiled wire in place of the diamond shape prong, but evidently it did not; and to the man
to whom it did ought not to be denied the quality of inventor.
There are many instances in the reported decisions of this court
where a monopoly has been sustained in favor of the last of a
series of inventors, all of whom were groping to attain a certain result, which only the last one of the number seemed able
to grasp. Conspicuous among these is the case of Loorm Cornpany v. Higgins, 105 U. S. 580, 591, where an improvement
in looms for weaving pile fabrics, consisting of such a new
combination of known devices as to give to a loom the capacity of weaving fifty yards of carpet a day, when before it
could only weave forty, was held to be patentable. It was
said by the court, in answer to the argument that the combination was a mere aggregation of old and well-known devices,
that "this argument would be sound if the combination claimed
by Webster was an obvious one for attaining the advantages
proposed-one which would occur to any mechanic skilled in
the art. But it is plain from the evidence, and from the.very
fact that it was not sooner adopted and used, that it did not,
for years, occur in this light to'even the most skilful persons.
It may have been under their very eyes, they may almost be
said to have stumbled over it; but they certainly failed to see
it, to estimate its value, ana to bring it into notice. .
Now that it has succeeded, it may seem very plain to any pne
that he could have done it as well. This is often the case with
inventions of the greatest merit. It may be laid down as a
general rule, though perhaps not an invariable one, that if
a new combination and arrangement of known elements pro-duce a new and' beneficial ,result, never attained before, it is
evidence of invention."
So in Consolidated V7alve Company v. Crosby, Valve
Company, 113 U. S. 157, 179, it was said "that Richardson's invention brought to success what priof inventors had essayed and

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

partly accomplished. He used some things which had been
used before, but he added just that which was necessary to
make the whole a practically valuable and economical apparatus.* The fact that the known valves were not used, and the
speedy and extensive adoption of Richardson's valve, are facts
in' harmony with the evidence that his valve contains just
what the prior valves lack, and go to support the conclusion
at which we have arrived on the question of novelty."
In Smith v. Goodyear D)ental Fulcanite C'ompany, 93 U. S.
486, 495, it was said by the court: "We do not say the single
fact that a device has gone into general use, and has displaced
other devices which had previously been employed for analogous uses, establishes in all cases that the later device involves
a patentable invention. It may, however, always be considered;
and, when the other facts in the case leave the question in doubt,
it is sufficient to turn the scale." See also AMagowan v. -New
Yorc Belting Co., 141 U. S. 332, 343.
(2) Thus far we have considered, as bearing upon the state
of the art, devices, the character, construction and scope of
which were exactly defined in the specifications and drawings
of actual patents, the only question presented being the proper
interpretation of such patents, and the bounds they had set to
the ingenuity of succeeding inventors. We have now to deal
with certain unpatented devices, claimed to be complete anticipations of this patent, the existence and use of which are
proven only by oral testimony. In view of the unsatisfactory
character of such testimony, arising from the forgetfulness of
witnesses, their liability to mistakes, their proneness to recollect things as the party calling them would have them recollect them, aside from the temptation to actual perjury, eourts
have not only imposed upon defendants the burden of proving such devices, but have required that the proof shall be
clear, satisfactory and beyond a reasonable doubt. Witnesses
whose memories are prodded by the eagerness of interested
parties to elicit- testimony favorable to themselves are not
usually to be depended upon for accurate information. The
very fact, which courts as well as the public have not failed
to recognize, that almost every important patent, from the

THE BARBED WIRE PATENT.
Opinion of the Court.

cotton gin of Whitney to the one under consideration, has
been attacked by the testimony of witnesses who imagined
they had made similar discoveries long before the patentee
had claimed to have invented his device, has tended to throw
a certain amount of discredit upon all that class of evidence,
and to demand that it be subjected to the closest scrutiny.
Indeed, the frequency with which testimony is tortured, or
fabricated outright, to build up the defence of-a prior use of
the thing patented, goes far to justif " the popular impression
that the inventor may be treated as the lawful prey of the
infringer. The doctrine was laid down by this court in Coffin
v. Ogden, 18 Wall. 120, 124, that "the burden of proof rests
upon him," the defendant, "and every reasonable doubt should
be resolved against him. If the thing were embryotic or
inchoate; if it rested in speculation or experiment; if the
process pursued for its development had failed to reach the
point of consummation, it cannot avail to defeat a patent
founded upon a discovery or invention which was completed,
while in the other case there was only progress, however near
that progress may have approximated to the end in vidw."
This case was subsequently cited with approval in Cantrell v.
Tallick, 117 U. S. 689, 696, and its principle has been repeatedly acted upon in the different circuits.
itchcock v. TreMawe, 9 Blatchford, 550; Parham v. American Button-Hole
.,fach' e Co., 4 Fisher, 468; Aime' ican Bell Telepkone Co. v.
Peoples' Telphone Co., 22 Fed. Rep. 309.
The testimony of the defendant tended to show the existence, public exhibition and use of a number of fences prior to
the date of the application in this case; but what is known
as the lMorley fence is supported by the largest amount of evidence, and was the one the learned District Judge who heard
this case in the court below held to have been an anticipation
of this patent. (33 Fed. Rep. 261.)
A panel of this fence appears to have been exhibited at a
county fair in Delaware County, Iowa, at Delhi, in 1858 and
1859. It appears that Morley owned lands in Delaware
County; that his family, lived in Pennsylvania; that for a
number of years, from 1858 to 1861, he spent a portion of his

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

, time in Iowa, living alone or boarding with his neighbors;
that he was not of entirely sound mind; and that he died
in an insane asylum in Pennsylvania in 1867, after a year's
immurement. It also appears that after 1861 the county fairsof Delaware County were held in Manchester, so that whatever was exhibited by Morley at Delhi preceded by several
years the application for the Glidden patent. The testimony
of the defendants tended to show, and we are indebted to the
court below for an abstract of it, that, at the time the fair
was being held at Delhi in 1858 and 1859, Morley came to the
house of one Dubois, a farmer _iving in Delaware County,
having with him a piece of fence-wire, which had short pieces
of wire wound around it; that Morley remained with him that
night; that the next day he saw a panel of fence on the fair
ground exhibited by Morley, made by stretching wires from
a tree or post to an6ther post; and that the wire so used was
the same or similar to that previously shown him by Morley.
One Bates, a blacksmith, swore that he aided Morley in putting-up the panel of fence exhibited by him. He described the
way the barbs were coiled around the fence-wire, testifying
that he made the tools with which the short wires were
twisted around the fence-wire, and describing the tools; and
also that he afterwards made a pair of shears for Morley to
be used in cutting the wire into pieces suitable for barbs.
One Robinson, who acted as deputy miirshal at the fair, testified that he rode a gray horse, and, having occasion to leave
him, hitched him to a fence-post in the fair grounds, and on
his return found his nose and breast bloody, caused by a cut
on his lip, and on examination found that the wires attached
to the post had swags or barbs thereon, formed by coiling a
short piece of wire around the fence-wire. He also testified
that in 1857 he was engaged in work on the railroad through
Delaware County, near which Morley had a piece of land;
that Morley was frequently where witness was working and
tried to sell the land to him for a pair of mules; and that he
had with him a piece of wire with swags on it, which he
exhibited to witness, saying he was going to get it patented.
There was other testimony to the effect that a boy, in playing

THE BARBED WIRE PATENT.
Opinion of the Court.

with other boys on the fair grounds, was thrown against the
panel of fence and reeeived two cuts, caused by the wires
twisted upon the wire fence, which bled freely, and the scars
of which were still visible upon his face. One Potter testified
that he attended the fair and saw Morley there; that he exhibited a panel of fence made of wires strung between a tree and
a post, with barbs made of short wires twisted around the
plain wire; that Alorley gave him a piece of the wire with
barbs on it; that he took it home with him; that he and his
wife talked about it and its effect upon stock; that he bad the
specimen of *the wire in his summer kitchen for a year or
more, and then put it in an old trunk in which he kept various
relics and keepsakes; that it had remained there, and was
there still; and then, on request of defendants' counsel, witness went to his home, brought the specimen of wire before
the notary, and made it an exhibit in the case. It consists of
a short piece of plain fence-wire with two barbs on it, made
by twisting other pieces of wire transversely around the fencewire. One Harrington also testified that he attended the fair;
that he saw the panel of fence made of wire situated between
a small tree and post, and there were barbs on it made of
short wires twisted around the fence-wire; that his attention
was attracted to it by efforts that were made to. drive a bull
upon it; and that he examined the wire and noticed, its
construction.
In all some twenty-four witnesses were sworn on behalf of
the defendants to the existence of the Delhi fair fence. According to the recollection of some of the witnesses it was
made of three or four strands of single wire, on which
the barbs were fastened, the wires being attached at their
ends to posts in the ground, or to a post and a tree; and that
the top wire had barbs on it formed of short pieces of wire
wrapped around it, some say once, others twice, and still
others three times. The other two or three strands of single
wire were without barbs. Beneath the top barbed wire was
a board to attract the attention of the cattle, either secured
to the posts or suspended by a wire from the top wire strand.
This fence was put up on the second day of the fair and

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

exhibited one day, as it appears the fair continued but two
days. No one seems to know what became of the panel, nor
of the barbed wire upon it; it was never seen after the fair,
beyond the single piece produced by the witness Potter.
Other witnesses sworn by the plaintiff, including the officers
of the fair association and the editor of the local newspaper,
were present at the fair, but have no recollection of anything
of the kind. This, however, is purely negative testimony,
and of no great -value.
It further appeared that in 1866 Morley took out a patent
for a triangular cattle pen, built of posts and boards supported
upon wheels, so constructed that it could be moved by the
animal inside of it. Some seven or eight witnesses testified
that at different times when they saw this machine it had on
it one or more strands of fence-wire with barbs or prickers on
them, put on in the same manner as were the barbs on the
Delhi fair exhibit, and the whole strung on the top of the
posts above the boards.
Other witnesses testified to seeing fences upon farms owned
or occupied by Morley, and in a yard near his mill, over which
strands of barbed wire were stretched in the same manner as
in the Delhi fence.
Upon the other hand, plaintiff met this testimony with that
of a large number of witnesses who had seen these fences and
also the cattle pen, and who testified that there was no barbed
wire connected with them. The members of Morley's family,
including his widow and sons, were also sworn and testified
to the effect that he bad never said anything about barbed
wire or barbed wire fences, although it is but just to say that
they remained in Pennsylvania and had never resided in Iowa.
One of h.is sons testified that he visited Iowa once, in 1858,
1859, or 18-60; and that he was at his father's mill for some
time and saw no barbed wire about it, nor did he hear his
father say anything about it. It is useless to go further into
the detail of this testimony.
Even conceding that Morley did exhibit a wire fence armed
with barbs at the Delhi County fair, we do not think the testimony connected with this fence makes out a case of prior

THE BARBED WIRE PATENT.
Opinion of the Court.

use of the device patented by Glidden, for the following
reasons: First, while the fence may have been armed with
barbs, there is very little, if anything, to show that it was
constructed according to the design of the Glidden fence.
Indeed, after the lapse of twenty-five years it would, in the
nature of things, be highly improbable that any witness who
saw this fence for the single day it was exhibited there would
be able to describe it accurately. Second, if Morley had
regarded this fence as of any value he would have applied for
a patent upon it, since he did in fact obtain a patent for his
travelling pen, which appears to have been a comparatively
worthless contrivance. If this pen had been armed with a
barbed wire it is somewhat singular that no allusion was made
to it in the drawings or specification. Third, the testimony of
Potter, that he preserved a piece of wire given to him by Morley
in a trunk containing some old relics for over twenty-five years,
is not only contradicted by his son, who was familiar with
the trunk, had examined its contents, and testified that he had
never seen the wire there, but is improbable upon its face.
Fourth, if any experiments were made by Morley in this
direction they were evidently looked upon by him and by the
public as of no practical value, and were subsequently abandoned and the fences lost.
While'we think the testimony goes far to establish the fact
that Morley exhibited a wire fence at this fair, and perhaps
also used it upon his farm at about the date claimed, we are
far from being satisfied that it was the Glidden device, or so
near an approximation to it at to justify us in holding that it
was an anticipation.
Defendants also introduced testimony tending to show that
one Long, a farmer of Delaware County, -Iowa, made some
barbed wire fence in the spring and summer of 1873. He put
the barbs upon smooth wire; made them out of staples, with
two irons having holes in the ends of each, running down into
the irons from the ends longitudinally, of a little larger size
than the staples to be used, and of the depth of the prongs of
the staples. Two pieces of this barbed wire are produced as
exhibits. It was not denied by the plaintiff that Long built
VOL. cxwmi-19

OCTOBER TERAI, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

a fence as claimed by him, and barbed his wire as aescribed,
but his evidence tended strongly to show that this occurred
more than a year after the date fixed by him, i.e. in 1874 or
1875, and after application had been made for the Glidden
patent.
The most cogent evidence is that of the parties of whom
Long appears to have purchased the lumber to build this fence,
who swore that it was shipped in January, 1875, a statement
which was verified by-the book-keeper in the employ of the
Illinois Central Railroad, who showed the first shipment of
lumber to Long to have been in January, 1875.
The existence of barbs upon what is known as the Chester
D. Stone fence in 1872 is sworn to by a large number of witnesses, and denied by an equal number who were acquainted
with the facts, and testified that it was an ordinary wire fence.
Stone said it was made by using fence staples for barbs, putting them on by putting a staple astride of the wire, and hammering them on an iron wedge until the points passed one
another, then placing the edge of the wedge between the
points and driving on the head of the staple until the points
of the staple were spread. The points stood out from the
wire at right angles. Of all the testimony bearing upon this
fence, and of the others, with a single exception, it is sufficient
to observe that it is limited to a staple twisted around a single
wire to form a barb, and that it totally fails to indicate the
combination of the twisted wires and coiled barb of the Glidden patent. The testimony with reference to the existence of
this fence was subjected to a careful examination by Mr.
Justice Brewer in the case against the Grinnell Wire Company, 24 Fed. Rep. 23, 29, who reached the conclusion that it
was unworthy of belief. Upon the perusal of this testimony
we are satisfied that his conclusion was correct.
The testimony with reference to the Hutchinson fence tends
to show the existence of a barbed wire fence on a farm near
Manchester as nearly as 1868 or 1869. The depositions of
four members of the same family were taken, one of whom
did the work in putting the barbs upon the fence. He swears
"twas a fence with posts and wires strung along on them,

THE BARBED WIRE PATENT.
Opinion of the Court.

like the old plain wire fence used to be. The barbs were i
piece of wire, as I remember them now, like a staple, sharp at
each end. We put them on with a pair of pincers, larger and
heavier but similar to those used in ringing hogs." The staples, it seems, were purchased in Manchester, and the witness
found it impossible to set them hard enough upon the smooth
wire to prevent their turning. A piece of this barbed wire
was an exhibit in the case, and shows a single wire with a
pointed barb, also of wire, wound once around it. Indeed, all
the testimony indicates that the barbs were placed upon a single wire, and that no attempt was made to hold them in place
by twisting a second wire about it. The conclusive answer to
this testimony, however, is that both the barbs and pincers
were purchased of one Butler, a merchant of Manchester, and
it is proven by him and his clerks that he had none of this size
for sale until 1877, and that none could be bought at any
hardware store in Manchester.
Some six witnesses were called by the defendant to establish the existence of a barbed wire on a fence between 1857
and 1860 upon the farm of one Beers, near De Kalb, in Illinois.
The testimony showed it to be a single wire with barbs on it,
forming part of a fence around a hay stack. The barb was
first twisted around, and then extended along the wire possibly one-half inch to an inch, and then twisted again in the
same way. Another wire forming part of a fence upon
the same farm seems to have been composed of two wires, the
barb being fastened to one of them. Another witness describes the fence as "two wires twisted around, and there was
another piece of wire, I should judge about six inches in
length, twisted around this wire, and one end projected one
way and the other end the other." It appears that the prior
use of this wire was set up in a case by these same plaintiffs
against one Haish in the Circuit Court for the Northern District of Illinois, 10 Bissell, 65, and was held to have been insufficiently proved. A specimen of the,twisted wire produced
in that suit was also put in evidence in this. It is very improbable that it could have been invented by a boy in his early
teens, such as Beers then was, and it is shown that he subse

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

quently took out a license under the Glidden patent after being
defeated in a suit brought against Haish for the infringement
of this patent, in which his device was set up as an anticipation. The testimony also indicates that the exhibit is constructed of a variety of steel which did not come into use until
after 1870. Upon the whole, the evidence fails to satisfy us.
that this fence was constructed before application was made
for the Glidden patent.
There was a vast amount of testimony of similar character
tending to show the use of coiled barbs upon fence-wires,
which it would serve no good purpose to discuss in detail.
There was evidently prior to Glidden's application more or less
experimenting in a rude way in and about Delaware County,
upon the subject of barbed wires as applied to wire fences, and
we think it is quite probable that coiled barbs were affixed to
single wires before the Glidden application was made. We are
not satisfied, however, that he was not the originator of the
combination claimed by him of the coiled barb, locked and
held in place by the intertwisted wire. It is possible that we
are mistaken in this; that some one of these experimenters
may have, in a crude way, hit upon the exact device patented
by Glidden, although we are not satisfied from this testimony,
whether or by whom it was done. It is quite evident, too,
that all or nearly all of these. experiments were subsequently
abandohed. But it was Glidden, beyond question, who first
published this device; put it upon record; made use of it for
a practical purpose; and gave it to the public, by which it was
eagerly seized upon, and spread until there is scarcely a cattleraising district in the world in which it is not extensively employed, Under these circumstances, we think the doubts we
entertain concerning the actual inventor of this device should
be resolved in favor of the patentee.
The decree of the Circuit Court will, therefore, be
Revermed, and the caee.'remandedwith instructions to enter
decree for the plaintiff for an accounting, and for furtherproeedingsin conformity with this opinion.
MR. JusrIcE FIELD dissented, upon the ground that there

,vas no novelty in the invention.

MICHIGAN INSURANCE BANK v. ELDRED.

293

Syllabus.
No. 129.

THn

WASHBURN

AN]D

2efOE-W MANUFACTURING

COM-

TINIAUFACTURING COMPANY V. AVILER.
MR. JUSTICE BROWN delivered
the opinion of the court. These cases were consolidated in the
court below with that of Washb r t and Moen Manufacturing Company v. Beat 'Ent All Barbed Wf-ire Company, No. 128, -with a stipulation that the same decree upon the question of the validity and
infringement of the patent declared upon should be entered in all
the causes. They differ only in the fact that in the first case the
suit was against the manufacturers, and in these cases against the
vendors of the. infringing wire. As the cases are identical in every
other particular the same disposition will be made of them, and
the decrees of the court below reversed, and- the cases remanded
with instructions to enter in each a decree for the plaintiff, for an
accounting, and for further proceedings in conformity with the
opinion in No. 128.
PANY V. NORWOOD.

No. 130.

Tim WASHBURx

AND MOEN

. John R. Bennett for appellants.
. A. H. Blairand Mr. William H. Singleton for appellees.

MICHIGAN INSURANCE BANK v: ELDRED.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT

No. 1288.

OF WISCONSIN.

Argued Jatiiary 29,1892.-Decided February 29,1892.

After the term at which a trial took place has expired, without the court-s
control over the case being reserved by standing rule or special order,
and especially after a writ of error has been entered in this court, the
court below cannot allow a bill of exceptions then first presented, or
amend a bill of exceptions already allowed and filed.
Under the Code of Wisconsin, an express denial, upon information and
belief, that the plaintiff was, at or since the commencement of the action,
or is now, a corporation, puts in issue the existence of the corporation.
The conversion of a state bank into a national bank, with a change of
name, under the National Banking Act, does not affect its identity, or its
right to sue upon liabilities incurred to it by its former name.

