OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Syllabus.

should be a deficiency in the security, real of apprehended,
every one interested should have notice in. advance of the time,

place and mode of sale, that he may make timely arrangements
to secure a sale of the property at its full value."
In the view we have taken of the case it is unnecessary to
consider the other points made by the defence. We are satisfied, both from the words of the mortgage itself, and from the
circumstances attending its execution, that it should not be con-'
strued to include the land grant subsequently made to this
company.
The decrees of the court below must be
Reversed, and the case remanded with instructionsto dismiss
the bills of Parker and HMamlin, andforfurther_roceedings in conformity with this opinion.

NEW YORK, LAKE ERIE & WESTERN RAILROAD
COMPANY

v. WINTER'S ADMINISTRATOR.

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF VASSACHUSETTS.
No. 169. Argued January 19, 20, 1892.-Decided February 1, 1892.

Parol evidence of what is said between a passenger on a railroad and the
ticket-seller of the company, at the time of the purchase by the passenger
of his ticket, is admissible as going to make up the contract of carriage
and forming part of it.
Passengers on railroad trains are not presumed or required to know the rules
and regulations of the company, made for the guidance of its conductors
and eiploy~s, as to its own internal affairs.
Plaintiff bought a ticket in Boston entitling him to a passage over defendants road. "At the time he informed the ticket agent of his wish to stop
off at the Olean station, ana was then told by the agent that he would
have to speak to the conductor about that. Between Binghamton and
Olean the plaintiff informed the conductor that he wished to stop over at
Olean and the conductor, instead of giving him a stop-over ticket, punched
his ticket and told him that was sufficient to give him the right to stop
overat Olean, and afterwards to use the punched ticket between Olean
and Salamanca. He made the stop, and taking another train to Salamanca,
presqnted the punched ticket, informing the conductor of what had taken

ERIE RAILOAI)- CO. v. WINTER.
Swtement of the Case.
place. The conductor refused to take it and 'demanded full fare. The
payment of thiN being refused, the conductor stopped the train at the
next station and ejected him from it, using such force as was necessary.
Held,
(1) That he was rightfully on the train at the time of his expulsion;
(2) That the conductor had no right to put him off for not paying his
fare;
(3) That the company was liable for the act'of the conductor;
(4) That the passenger had a right to refuse to be ejected from the train,
and to make a sufficient resistance to being put off to denote that
he was being removed against his Will by compulsion; ,
(5) That the fact that under such circumstances he was put off the train
was, of itself, a good cause of action against the company, irrespctive of any physical injury he might have then received, or which
was caused thereby.
When the trial court has, in its general charge, given the substance of instructions requested, there is no error in refusing to give them in the
language requested.
It is not the province of this court to determine whet.e- a verdict was excessive.

Tim court stated the case as follows:
This was an action by David T. Winter, a *citizen of Massachusetts, against the New York, Lake Erie and Western Railroad Company, a New York corporation, to recover damages
for having been put off the defendant's train while a passenger
'thereon between Binghamton and Salamanca, New York. It
was commenced in a state court of Massachusetts, and was
afterwards, upon the application of the defendant, removed
into the proper Federal court, on the. grounds of diverse citizenship and of local prejudice and influence. S'ev.eral other
railroad companies that were supposed to have property or
funds in their hands belonging to the principal defendant were
made parties defendant, as trustees or garnishees..
The declaration contained two counts. In the first it was
alleged that on February 13, 1882, the plaintiff, being the
owner of- an unlimited first-class ticket entitling him to carriage on the defendant's road from Binghamton to Salamanca,
took passage on the defendant's train at the former place to
be carried to the latter; that betweei Binghamton and Olean
(a station on the road between. Binghamton and Salamanca)

OCTOBER' TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

the defendant's agent in charge of the train punched his ticket,
at his request, so, that he was entitled to "stop over" at Olean,
and returned it to him; that he did stop over at Olean, and,
the next day took a train on defendant's road to go to Salamanca, on the aforesaid ticket; that the defendant's agent in
charge of the last named train refused to accept his ticket, but
denanded payment of a cash fare from Olean to Salamanca,
and, upon his refusal to pay the same, forcibly ejected him
from the car in which he was riding and removed him from
the train, whereby his finger was broken and other severe and
painful injuries were sustained; that his luggage and apparel
were taken away on the train, and. he was thereby deprived of
certain valuable papers, and the place where he was ejected
frorp the train was a great distance from any public house;
and that it was at a very late hour of the night, and the
weather was very cold and inclement; all of which occasioned
him great bodily and mental suffering.
The second count alleged that the defendant, by its agents
and servants, made an assault upon the plaintiff and ejected
him from the cars in which he was lawfully travelling, and
did him serious personal injury and subjected him to great
personal indignity.
The defendant answered with a general denial, and further
alleged that when its conductor applied to the plaintiff for his
ticket, after leaving Olean, the plaintiff presented a ticket
which had been cancelled to Salamanca, whereupon the conductor told him that such ticket was not good to Salamanca,
and that the rule of the road would not allow him to, and he
could not, accept it, although it'would be good beyond Salamanca, and that he must pay full fare to Chat-point, which the
plaintiff refused to do, saying to the conductor to put him off,
if he dared to do so; that the conductor told him he should be
obliged'to stop the train at the next station and put him off;
and that, the'plaintiff still "efusing to pay his fare when the
next station. was reached, the conductor stopped the train
and .put him off, using no more force than was necessary and
proper.
It was further alleged that the plaintiff had no lawful right

ERIE RAILROAD CO. v. WINTER.
Statement of the Case.

to be transported over the road to Salamanca, and was travelling on defendant's cars in violation of a uniform rule of the
road which was explained to him before he was put off, and
without any lawful right whatever, and that if he sustained
any injuries, of any kind, it was due solely to his own wrong..
The garnishees answered separately, and, with the exception of the Fitchburg road, each averred that it had no property or funds whatever in its hands belonging to the principal
defendant. The latter company, in its answer, admitted having several thousand dollars in money belonging to the principal defendant.
Upon the issues thus made up the case went to trial in the
state court resulting in a verdict in favor, of the plaintiff for
over $6000, which, upon motion of the defendant, was set
aside by the court. Soon afterwards, the cause was'removed
into the Federal court, as before stated. Upon a trial in that
court, the jury returned a verdict in favor of the plaintiff and
against the defendant for $10,000, and judgment having been
entered upon the verdict for that amount, this writ of error
was sued out. Since the cause was docketed in this court,
the plaintiff has died, and his administrator is now representing his estate.
As shown by the bill of exceptions, the plaintiff, on the trial,
to sustain the issues on his part, gave evidence to the following
effect: On the morning of February 13, 1882, the plaintiff, a
resident of Peabody, Massachusetts, purchased an unlimited
coupon ticket at the ticket office of the Fitchburg Railroad
Company in Boston, from that city to Chicago, one of its
coupons being for travel over the defendant's road from Binghainton to Salamanca, New York, at the same time telling the
ticket agent that he wanted to buy a ticket which woul4
enable him to stop off at Olean, New York, a town between'
Binghamton and Salamanca. The agent informed him that
such ticket would cost him about $3 more than an unlimited
ticket good for one continuous passage over the same route,
but it would allow him to stop over at Olean, as he had expressed his desire to do, by "speaking to the conductor."
Plaintiff took the ticket and started on his journey. When

OCTOBER'TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

he reached Binghamton three of the lower coupons had been
given unp, the next one being that for travel between Binghamton and Salamanca. After leaving Horaellsville, a station on the defendant's road between the last-named two
places, the plaintiff said to the conductor as he came through
the car to take up tickets, that he desired to stop off at Olean,
at the same time asking him if they would make connection
at that point with a train running south on another road to a
town called Portville, where he wished to go for a short time
on business. The conductor replied to him that that train
would wait for them if they were late at Olean, and further
said, "I will fix you all right." The conductor punched his
ticket and returned it to him. Reaching Olean the plaintiff
got off the train, made his journey to Portville, returned to
Olean and took passage on the next west-bound train over the
defendant's road, to complete his journey to Chicago. When
the conductor c aime for his ticket the plaintiff handed the
ticket, attached' to ,which was the punched coupon from Binghamton to Salamanca. The conductor looked at it a minute
and threw it, back to him, remarking that it was " No good,"
and that he'would have to pay his fare from Olean to Salamanca. After some wrangling over the matter, the plaintiff
still refusing to pay the extra fare demanded unless the conductor would give him a written ieceipt therefor, and the conductor' refusing to give such receipt, the latter stopped the
train at a small station called Allegheny station, about th',
middle of the night, and, with the assistance of the brakemab
and other employes of the road on the train, forcibly ejected
the plaintiff from the train, using much more violence and
force than was necessary and proper for such purpose, so that
the plaintiff was severely injured in his left arm and wrist,
from which injury he has suffered great pain and anguish, ad
for which he has received medical treatment. Upon reaching
the platform the plaintiff, seeing that the night was very dark
and the weather very cold, offered to pay the extra fare on to
Salamanca if the conductor would allow him to reenter the train;
but this the conductor refused to let him do, and in doing so
used offensive and unseemly language. Part of the plaintiff's

ERIE RAILROAD. CO. v. WINTER.
Statement of the Case.

baggage, containing some clothes, was left on the'train and
was never returned to him.
He spent the night at Allegheny station, and on the following morning hired a carriage and droe back to Olean where
he again took a west-bound train on the defendant's road, 'and
presented to the conductor the same ticket and coupon that
had been refused the night before by the other conductor, and
it was received without any question whatever as to its validity,
and he continued on his journey. On cross-examination the
plaintiff testified that he did not ask the conductor before
reaching Olean for a stop-over check, and that nothing was
said about such thing by the conductor; and on being recalled
by his own counsel he stated that the agent in Boston said
nothing about a stop-over check.
The plaintiff also introduced evideice tending to prove that
it was the duty of the conductor, under a custom in relation
to railroad matters, to give the plaintiff a stop-over .check at
Olean, without plaintiff asking for it, after the latter had
stated that he desired to stop over at that place; and that the
only difference between the form of a limited ticket, which
was good only for a continuous passage, and an unlimited one,
such as he had bought, giving stop-over privilegeg, was, that
in the limited ticket the agent selling it would punch out the
year, month and day it was sold, in the margin of the ticket,
and punch each of the coupons with an L, whereas the unlimited ticket would not be punched at all by the agent selling it.
The evidence introduced by the defendant tended to contradict some statements made by the plaintiff with respect 'to
the conversation had with the agent who sold him the tick.t,
and also as to the occurrences and. conversations which todl
place between him and the conductor, immediately prior to
his being put off, and the amount of force used in putting him
off; but the main facts in the case, as testified to by the plaintiff, were practically undisputed. The conductor who put him
off was called and testified, among other things, that he thought
the plaintiff had a limited ticket instead of one unlimited, and
so reported to the company; but that that mistake on his part
VOL. CxU-5

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

really made no difference, as the rules of the road forbade his
taking the punched coupon at Olean, and required him to do
as he had done, although, upon cross-examination, he admitted
that he knew the coupon had not been used to Salamanca,
because the punch marks in it had been made by the conductor on the train next ahead of his.
The rules and regulations of the road in force when these
occurrences took place were introduced in evidence by the
defendant, and with respect to stop-over privileges were as
testified to by the conductor. It appeared that these regulations were put up in the cars of the company in 1875, but
were not supposed to be remaining there in the year 1882;
and it was not shown that the plaintiff ever had any knowledge
or notice of their existence. The statutes of the State of New
York allowing railroad companies organized under the law of
that State to make needful rules and regulations relative to
the management of their passenger traffic, and also permitting
them to put a passenger'who refuses to pay his fare off their
trains, using no more force than is necessary for such purpose,
were also put in evidence.
The conductor of the train which finally carried the plaintiff
to Salamanca was not called as a witness, nor was his absence
accounted for; but there was evidence of a high official of the
road, brought out on cross-examination, that there were other
ways of providing for a passenger entitled to a stop-over privilege than by giving him a stop-over check.
All the plaintiff's testimony with respect to the damages he
had sustained, and also with respect to his conversation with the
agent who sold him his ticket, was admitted, over the objections
of the defendant, and exceptions were duly noted thereto.
At the close of the testimony the defendant presented eleven
separate prayers for instructions to the jury, but the court dedined to give them except so far as they were embodied in the
general charge, and the defendant excepted. The plaintiff's
counsel then stated that he should not claim to the jury that
more force was used in expelling the plaintiff from the trainl
than was necessary to overcome his resistance; and that element was, therefore, eliminated from the case.

ERIE RAILROAD CO. v. WINTER.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

There was no question in the case respecting the measure of
damages, as the instructions of the court upon that question
were not excepted to.
21r. CalviA P. Sampsoz and -Mr. Seth J. Thomas for plaintiff in error.
Whether there is such prqof of agency as to warrant admission of the acts and declaraions of the agent in evidence is a
preliminary question for the court. United Stats v. Clicquot's
Chai pagne, 3 Wall. 114. In the case at bar the ruling of the
presiding judge, in this respect, was erroneous. Neither an
agency nor the authority of an agent can be proved by the
testimony of a witness to conversations witht the supposed
agent out of court. So far as respects the authority of the
Fitchburg road to bind this company it does not appear that
this company had given it any authority, except to sell tickets
over its road with limitations and conditions printed on their
face. It is quite different from the case of a sale of tickets by
its own agent over its own road. Lake Shore &-3-3icdgam
Southern Railway v. Pierce, 47 Michigan, 277; .fClure v.
Phil.Wilin. & Balt. Railroad,34 'Maryland, 532; Burroughs
v. 11"oewich & Wor cester Railroad,100 Mass. 26.
In Wait v. Albany & Suslyehanna Railroad,5 Lansing, 475,
the court stated their opinion that the power in a railroad corporation to make a contract to carry beyond its line is coincident with the power to make contracts for transportation with
other carriers, and is confined to the governing officers of the
corporation, and that its subordinate agents do not possess that
power unless it has been expressly conferred upon them, or
has been so exercised as to have become the established course
of business. See also Grorer& Baker Co. v. IJfo. Pac. Railrocid, 70 Missouri, 672; Phillipsv. lYorth, CarolinaRailroad,
78 North Carolina, 294; People v. Chicago & Alton Railro,l, 55 Illinois, 95.
We submit that substantially this case has been twice decided by this court; first in X3os/er v. St. Zouis, iron Mountain"
&e. Railwty Co., 127 U. S. 390, and more recently in Boylan
v. flot 8Srings Railroad,132 U. S. 146.

OCTOBER, TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

As to the duty of the presiding judge to give the instructions
asked, on the subject of damages, although he had already instructed on that subject not inconsistently with them, we cite:,
.Mosherv. St. Louis, Iron Iounta'n & Southern Railway Co.,
127 U. S. 390; Boylan v. Hot .prings Railroad, 132 U. S.
146; Townsend v. New York Central Railroad,56 N. Y. 295;
Shelton v. Lake Shore & Michigan Southern Railway, 29 Ohio
St. 214; B'adshaw v. South Boston Railrad,135 Mass. 407;
Fredeirickv. Marquette &c. Railroad,37 Michigan, 342; Petrie
v. Pennsylvania Railroad,13 Vroom (42 N. J. L.) 449; Pennington v. Philadelphi-,TFilmington & Baltirore Railroad,
62 Maryland, 95; Rawitzky v. Louisville & N ashville Railroad, 40. La. Ann. 47; 'Louisville & Nashville Railroad v.
.Flerning,14 Lea, 128 ; Churchillv. Chicago & Alton Radlroad,
67 Illinois, 390; Chicago, Burlington & Quincy Railroad v.
Grifin, 68 Illinois, 499; Baker v. Cojlin, 31 Barb. 556.
.X'r. Clifford Brigha (with whom was Xr. Lewis S. Da6ney on the brief) for defendant in error.
MM. JUSTICE LAx&i,
opinion of the court.

after stating the case, delivered the

There were eleven assignments of error originally, based
upon certain exceptions to the rulings of the court during the
progress of the trial, but in the brief of counsel for plaintiff in
error they have been reduced to eight. As the only one of
these exceptions that was properly saved, under our rules, was
that relating to the admission of .evidence as to what the ticket
agent at Boston said to the plaintiff when he purchased his
'ticket, we would, perhaps, be justified in limiting our consideration t6f that point. Aside from this informality or defect in
the exceptions saved, however, and as the assignments of error
all refer either directly or remotely to that point, and thus
relate to but one subject, we shall consider them, not separately,
but shall, for convenience, treat them together. It is urged
that the court erred (1) in allowing the plaintiff to testify as
to what was said by the agent in Boston when he bought his
ticket; (2) in its instructions to the jury upon this point, and

ERIE RAILROAD C0.

v. WINTER.

Opinion of the Court.

with respect to the rules and regulations of the road relative
to stop-over checks; (3) in not giving certain instructions asked
for by the defendant, upon the question of stop-over checks;
and (4) in not telling the jury, in effect, that it was their duty
under all the evidence in the case, to bring in a verdict for the
defendant.
The grounds upon which it is insisted that the evidence referred to was inadmissible are, that the ticket itself and the
rules and regulations, of the road, with respect to stop-over
checks, constitute the contract between the passenger and the
road and the only evidence of such contract, and that no representations made by a ticket seller could be received to vary or
change the terms of such contract. This contention cannot bo
sustained, and is opposed to the authorities upon the subject.
While it may be admitted, as a general rule, that the contract
between the passenger and the railroad company is made up
of the ticket which he purchases, and the rules and regulations
of the road, yet it does not follow that parol evidence of what
was said between the passenger and the ticket seller from whom'
he purchased his ticket, at the time of such purchase, is inadmissible, as going to make up the contract of 'carriage and
forming a part of it. In the first place, passengers on railroad
trains are not presumed to know the rules and regulations
which are made for the -guidance of the conductors and other
employos of railroad companies, as to the internal affairs of the
company, nor are they required to know them. Hq'ford v.
GrandRapids Railroad,64 Michigan, 631. In this case there
is no evidence, as already stated, that notice or knowledge of
the existence of the rules of the defendant company, or what.
they were, with respect to stop-over privileges, was brought
home to the plaintiff at the time he purchased his ticket or at
any time thereafter. There was nothing on the face of the
ticket to show that a stop-over check was required of the passenger as a condition precedent to his resuming his journey
from Olean to Salamanca, after stopping off at the former
place. It is shown by the evidence, that Olean was a station
at which stop-over privileges were allowed. Under such circumstances, it was entirely proper for the passenger to make

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

inquiries of the ticket agent and to rely upon what the latter
told him with respect to his stopping over at Olean. HfJord
v. GrandR6aids Railroad, supr, ; Palmerv..R ailroad,3 So.
Car. 580; .Burnhanv. Grand Tank Railway Co., 63 Maine,
298; Murdock v. Boston & Albany Railroad, 137 Mass. 293;
Arnold v. Pennsylvania Railroad,115 Penn. St. 135.
Upon this question, and also with respect to the action, of
the first conductor and the regulations of the road relative to
stop-over privileges, the court gave to the jury the following
instructions: "That if the plaintiff's testimony was true in
regard to what took place between himself and the ticket
agent in Boston, and afterwards with the first conductor on
the defendant's train, and if the plaintiff, when he bought his
ticket in Boston, informed the ticket agent of his wish to stop
off at the Olean station, and was then told by the ticket agent
that he would have to speak to the conductor about that, and
-between Binghamton and Olean the plaintiff informed the
conductor that he wished to stop over at Olean and the conductor, instead of giving the plaintiff a stop-over ticket,
punched the plaintiff's ticket and told him that was sufficient
to give him the right to stop over at Olean and afterwards to
use the punched ticket between Olean and Salamanca, then,
whatever the rules and regulations of the road were, the
plaintiff was rightfully a passenger on the train at the time of
his expulsion, and the cbnductor had no right to put him off
for not paying his fare, and the company was liable for the
act of the conductor; that if, on the other hand, the plaintiff
did not notify the conductor of his wish to stop over at Olean
and received no such assurance from the conductor or from
the ticket agent as he has testified, then the punched ticket
gave him no right to ride as a passenger on the train between
Olean and Salamanca without paying his fare, and if he refused to pay his fare when demanded the conductor was justified in putting him off, and his offer to pay his fare after the
train was stopped was too late, and did not give him the right
to ride on the train, ana the conductor was justified in expelling him, notwithstanding the offer."
We think these instructions perfectly correct and tliat, upon

ERIE RAILROAD CO. v. WINTER.
Opinion of the Court.

these points, they embodied substantially the whole law of the
case. The gravamen of this action is the wrongful conduct of
the conductor who ejected the plaintiff from the train. Whether
the plaintiff told nothing but the truth with reference to what
occurred on the train between him and the conductor before he
was put off and at the time he was put off, or whether the jury
believed all he testified to with reference to those matters, is
not the question to be determined. But, taking the case in
this particular most strongly, in favor of the defendant, under
the evidence submitted, it must be admitted that the action of
the conductor was inexcusable. He testified, among other
things, (1) that he thought the plaintiff's ticket was a limited
one, and so reported it to his company, when, in truth and in
fact, it was unlimited; thus showing carelessness and negligence
in a most pronounced degree. (2) That he knew, or had good
reason for knowing, that the Binghamton-Salamanca coupon
had not been used to the latter place, because it had been
punched by Conductor Hurty, who had charge of the next
preceding train to the one of which he had .charge; so that
it was impossible for him to believe that the plaintiff was trying to ride on a ticket that had once been used over that part
of the road.. But he tries to justify his conduct, in this particular, by saying that he would not have been authorized to
carry the plaintiff on his train, anyway, without his having a
stop-over check procured from the conductor of the train *on
which he had ridden to Olean. It may be true that the regulations of the road were substantially to that effect; and it
may also. be admitted that the road had the right to make
such regulations, subject, of course, to the reasonable interests,
convenience and comfort of the travelling public. But the
testimony of a very high official of the road was, that stopover checks were not absolutely necessary, and that other arrangements might be, and sometimes were, made. And the
very fact that 'the plaintiff afterwards, on the next morning,
did travel from Olean to Salamanca ofi one of -the defendant's
trains without producing any stop-over check or any other
ticket save and except the one which had been refused the
night before, demonstrates clearly that the regulations of the

"

OCTOBER-TERM, 189L
Opinion of the Court.

.

road with respect to.stop-over checks were not unbending and
inviolable.
Another circumstance in this connection, is worth noting:
The conductor of the train on which the plaintiff rode from
Olean to Salamanca was not called as a witness, nor was his
absence accounted for. It was not shown that he was not still in
the employ of the defendant. If accessible, his testimony would
have gone far towards showing the practice of the defendant
with respect to stop-over checks; and his not being called by
the defendant makes against its theory that the plaintiff had
no right to be carried on the train from which he was ejected
without having a stop-over check.
Furthermore, if the evidence of the plaintiff was to be believed, (and in this respect the charge of the court below was
sufficiently guarded,) he did all that he was required to do before reaching Olean, to entitle him to the privilege of stopping
over at that place and resuming his journey the next day.
In fact, his course. in this respect was in literal conformity
with the regulation of the company, which reads thus: "Timely
notice of desire to stop over must be given by the passenger to
the company." The plaintiff testifies that he told the conductor that he desired to stop off at Olean and take a train south to
Fortville, and then, upon returning to Olean, resume his journey tb the west on another train; and that the conductor told
him he would fix him all right. Even under the regulations
of the road with reference to stop-over checks, (although not
brought to his knowledge,) he had the right to rely upon the
statement of the conductor that he would "fix him all right,"
and had a right to suppose that nothing further was required
to be done by him than was done to entitle him to a stop-over
privilege. The conductor, after receiving "timely notice from
the passenger of his desire to stop over" at Olean and afterwards take another train for the remainder of his journey, (as
he had the right to'do on an unlimited ticket,) was thereupon
bound to furnish the passenger with a stop-over check without
the passenger asking him, in so many words, for one. Under
the circumstances bf the case, as testified to by the plaintiff,
the conductor of the first train was derelict in his duty in not

ERIE RAILROAD

CO. v. WINTER.

Opinion of the Court.

providing the passenger with a stop-over check when the latter
stated to him that he desired to stop off at Olean, (as he had
the right to do,) if such check was necessary to enable the
passenger to complete his journey to Salamanca. If the jury
believed the evidence of the plaintiff in this matter, they were
justified in finding negligence on the part of the first conductor. And, upon the case as made by the defendant itself, with
reference to what took place between the plaintiff and the
conductor who ejected him from the train, leaving out of sight
the disputed facts in that matter, it is very clear to our minds
that the action of that conductor was unwarranted under the
law; and that the charge of the court thereon was as favorable to the defendant as it had the right to demand. The
authorities above cited abundantly sustain this view. The
reason of such rule is to be found in the principle that where
a party does all that he is required to do, under the terms of a
contract into which he has entered, and is only prevented from
reaping the benefit of such contract by the fault or wrongful
act of the other party to it, the law gives him a remedy against
the other party for such breach of contract.
These observations dispose of the questions raised touching
the conversation between the plaintiff and the ticket agent,
the rules and regulations of the company in the matter-of
stop-over checks, the acts of the several conductors in charge
of the trains upon which the plaintiff travelled between Bing
hamton and Salamanca, and the conduct of the plaintiff himself in those transactions. If he was rightfully on the train
as a passenger, he had the right to refuse to be ejected from
it, and to make a sufficient resistance to being put off to denote
that he was being removed by compulsion and against his
will; and the fact that, under such circumstances, he was put
off the train, was of itself a good ,cause of action against the
company, irrespective of any physical injury he may have
received at that time, or which was caused thereby. English'
v. Delaware & Hudson Canal Co., 66 N. Y, 454; Brown v.
2Mefmpkis & Charleston R. R. Co., 7 Fed. Rep. 51; Pkiladel2pha, Wilwington & Balt. Railroad v, .Rice, 64 Maryland, 63.

OCTOBER TERIM!,

1891.

Opinion of the Court.

It follows from what we have said that there was no error
in the action of the court in refusing to direct the jury, in
effect, to return a verdict in favor of the defendant. Neither
was there any error prejudicial to the defendant in any part
of the charge, above quoted, which the court gave to the jury
upon the questions we have been considering.
With respect to the instructions requested by the defendant
upon these points, which the court declined to give, except as
embodied in the general charge, very little need be said. They
are as follows:
(1) "The regulation of the defendant corporation, that the
several conductors of its trains shall require of each passenger
a valid ticket or pay the established fare, is a necessary and
proper regulation, and if the plaintiff in this case having, as
he says, taken defendant's train at Olean for Salamanca, did
not, when thereto requested, present to the conductor a valid
ticket but only a ticket that had been cancelled, and refused
to pay his fare, then the conductor had the lawful right to
stop the train at an intermediate station or near to a dwelling
house, and put the plaintiff off the train, using only such force
as was necessary for that purpose.
(2) "The regulation of the defendant that a passenger who
desires to stop over at an intermediate station, and resume
his passage by a later train, must, before leaving the first
train, require of the conductor a stop-over check, is a reasonable
regulation; and since in this case it appears by the plaintiff's
own testimony that his ticket from Binghamton to Salamanca
was cancelled before he left the train, and he did stop over at
Olean, an intermediate place, and resumed his passage the
next day and presented no stop-over check, but only the
cancelled ticket, and refused to pay his fare when requested,
and persisted in that refusal, thb conductor had the lawful
right to stop the train at the intermediate station, as he did,
and put the plaintiff off the train."
What we have said above virtually disposes of these requests.
In so far as they are correct, the substance of them had been
given by the court in its general charge, and there was no
error, therefore, in refusing to give them in the language

ERIE RAILROAD CO. v. WINTER.
Opinion of the Court.

requested. Mashington & Georgetown, Rai!road v. .AXDade,
135 U. S. 554; .ztna,Life. nTs. Co. v. Wrard, 140 U. S. 76.
In fact, it is much the better practice to refuse to give instructions to the jury, the substance of which- has already been
stated in the general charge, than to repeat the same charge
in different language, although the charge requested may be
technically correct as an abstract proposition of law; for a
multitude of instructions, all stated in different language and
meaning the serme thing, tends rather to confuse than to
enlighten the minds of the jury.
Whether the verdict was excessive, is not our province to
determine on this writ of error. The correction of that error,
if there were any, lay with the court below upon a motion for
a new trial, the granting or refusal of which is not assignable
for error here. As stated by us ind ./Etna Life Ins. Co. v.
Ward: "It may be that if we were to usurp the functions of
the jury and d~termine the weight to be given to the evidence,
we might arrive at a different conclusion. 'But that is not
our province on a writ of error. In such a case we are confined to the consideration of exceptions, taken at the trial, to
the admission or rejection of evidence and to the charge of the
court and its refusals to charge. We have no concern with
questions of fact, or the weight to be given to the evidence
whicir was properly admitted." 140 U. S. 91, citing numerous
cases.

It would subserve no useful purpose to go more into detail
as to the assignments of error presented. What we have
already said virtually disposes of all of them. We think the
evidence objected to was properly admitted; that the charge
of the court as given was correct, and embodied the entire law
of the case; that its refusal to give the instructions requested,
under the circumstances, was not error; and that in no other
respect, so far as this record discloses, .was any error committed
to the injury of the railroad company.
Judgment affirmed.

