OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

State that applies to all other privileges and to all other property. If they wished or intended to have an exemption of
any kind from taxation, or felt that it was necessary to the
profitable working of their business, they should have required
a provision to that effect in their charter. The Constitution
of the United States does not profess in all cases to protect
property from unjust and oppressive taxationi by the States.
That is left to the state constitutions and state laws." 109
U. S. 398, 400.
The New Orleans City Railroad Company having had no
right of exemption from the tax in question, it is unnecessary
to consider whether such a right, had it existed, would have
passed by the conveyance to the plaintiff in error. See Chesapeake & Ohio Railway v. Jfiller, 114 U. S. 176, 184, and cases
cited; .Picardv. East Tennessee &c. Railroad,130 U. S. 637.
Judgment affirmed.

WATERMANv . ALDEN.
APPEAL FROM THE 6iRcurr COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 455.

Submitted January 8,1892.- Decided February 29, 1892.

A testator, after giving the bulk of his property to his six brothers and
sisters in equal shares, directed that "any and all notes, bills, accounts,
agreements, or other evidences of indebtedness against any of my said
brothers and sisters, held by me at the time of my decease, be cancelled
by my said executors and delivered up to the maker or makers thereof,
without payment of the same or any part thereof," except two notes
specified, and secured by mortgage. Held, that this direction did not include joint and several notes made to the testator, between the date of the
will and his death, by a partnership of which a brother was a member,
to obtain money to carry on the business of the partnership, and secured
by a conveyance of valuable property.

was a bill in equity by Robert W. Waterman, a citizen
of California, against Philander M. Alden and George S.
Robinson, citizens of Illinois, and executors of James S.
THIS

-

WATERMAN v. ALDEN.
Statement of the Case.

Waterman, to recover back certain sums of money alleged to
have been paid by mistake.
James S. Waterman, for twenty years before his death,
lived and did business as a banker in 'Sycamore, Illinois. He
died on July 19, 1883, without children or descendants, and
leaving an estate amply sufficient, without the sums claimed
in this suit, to pay all debts, legacies and costs of administration.
I By his last will, dated November 28, 1870, and admitted to
probate September 18, 1883, he gave to his wife one-third of
all his estate, real and personal; to other persons certain specific legacies of comparatively small amount; and all the residue of his estate, real and personal, to trustees in trust to pay
the annual income for a term of twenty-one years to his six
brothers and sisters, (of whom the plaintiff was one,) and at
the end of that time to divide the principal in equal shares
among them and the issue of any one deceased; and further
provided as follows:
"7th. I desire and direct that any and all notes, bills, accounts,
agreements, or other evidences of indebtedness against any of
my said brothers and sisters, held by me at the time of my
decease, be cancelled by my said executors and delivered up
to the maker or makers thereof, without payment of the same
or any part thereof, except two notes I hold against John C.
Waterman, one for. eight thousand dollars, dated August 10,
1870, and due January 1, 1871, and'one for four thousand and
six hundred dollars, dated November 28, 1870; and due six
months after date, and both secured by trust deed upon lands
in Johnson County, State of Missouri, which notes I desire
and direct to be collected and' 'equally divided between my
said brothers and sisters, the child or children of a deceased
brother or sister to take the same share the father or mother
would have taken if living."
In accordance with the seventh clause of the will, the defendants delivered up to the plaintiff individual notes of his
for from $12,000 to $15,000, and to John C. Waterman,
another brother, his unsecured notes'for about $30,000.
The real question in the case is whether that clause of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Counsel for Appellant.

will applies to notes given by the plaintiff and another person
to the testator under the following circumstances:
In 1881 the plaintiff, residing in San Bernardino, California,
formed a mining partnership with one Porter, under the name
of Waterman & Porter, in which the plaintiff's interest was
three-fourths and Porter's one-fourth. On May 14, 1881, the
plaintiff signed and gave to the testator, as security for the
payment of any advances that he might make to the partnership, an agreement in writing to execute to him, within twelve
months from date, on demand, a conveyance of twenty-four
undivided hundredths of certain mining property in California,
the estimated value of whidh at that time was, as the plaintiff
testified, $1,000,000. The testator advanced to the partnership, for the development and workipg of the mines, between
$25,000 and $30,000, part of which Sas repaid in his lifetime.
At his death, he held five notes of the partnership, (which may
be assumed to have been several as well as joint,) signed by
the partnership name, amounting in all to $10,000r, dated in
the latter part of 1881, and payable in February or March,
1882, with interest at the rate of eight per cent annually.
The partnership afterwards sent to the defendants, in payment of these notes, with interest, and of other debts of the
partnership to the testator, drafts of a bank in San Francisco
upon a bank in Chicago for.$11,949.51, bought by the partnership, Porter contributing his share; and the defendants
thereupon cancelled and returned these notes.
The plaintiff demanded of the defendants repayment of
.these sums, as having been paid in ignorance of the terms
of the will, and under mistake of law and of fact. The
defendants refused, because they were advised by counsel
that by the will the only notes or evidences of indebtedness against the testator's brothers which were to be cancelled
and delivered up were simply personal debts.
This bill in equity was thereupon filed, and, after a hearing
before the Chief Justice on pleadings and proofs, was dismissed; and the plaintiff appealed to this court.

-Mr. William R. Plum for appellant.

WATERMAN v. ALDEN
Counsel for Appellees.

The seventh clause of the will imports a legacy; it is not a
testamentary act in the nature of a release. It is not a renunciation or abandonment of part of the estate, but a gift
of part of the estate which the executors were not bound to
collect and distribute for the sole reason that the death of
the testator found already in the hands of the legatee what
testator intended to give him. Irzon, v. Butle., 2 Price, 34;
Elliott v. Davenport, I P. Wins. 83; Toplis v. Baker, 2 Cox
Ch. 118; Maitland v. Adair, 3 Ves. Jr. 231.
The rule of constructioii is, that a bequest in general terms
jbrima facie includes everything, capable of .being comprehended under those terms, which the testator had power to
dispose of. This is the fundamental and tacit assumption of
courts in developing rules of construction. .Morricev. Aylmer,
44 Law Journ. Ch. 212.
The debt in question was the severil debt of appellant
to the testator. Rev. Stat. Illinois, c. 76, ยง 3 ; Marine Bank
v. Ferry,40 Illinois, 255 ; Gage v. Mechanics' Hat. Bank, 79
Illinois, 62; People v. Harrison,82 Illinois, 84; Byers v. FTin;cennes Nat. Bank, 85 Illinois, 423; Stearns v. Aguire et al., 6
California, 176; People v. Love et al., 25 California, 520.
That the testator did not mean to confine his bequest to
such debts as were secured only by the personal engagement
of the debtor brother or sister, is shown .by his specific exception of a debt of his brother John, which was secured by trust
deed on land in Missouri. The express direction that that
debt was to be collected, implies that in the mind of the testator his executors were not in any other case to have an action
against any brother or sister.
A gift or legacy imports a bounty or personal benefit to the
legatee. In addition to .the gift of income made in section 4
the trustees are expressly directed to pay over his share to
each legatee. Appellees' construction of the seventh section
would necessarily, in certain obvious contingencies, impair the
benefit bestowed in the fourth, and contradict the direction to
pay over. Bates v. Hillman, 43 Barb. 645.
-Mr.John P. Wilson for appellees.

-OCTOBER, TERI, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUsTIcE GRAY, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

The matter to be ascertained in this case is the intention of
the testator as manifested on the face of his will, by which,
after inaking provision for his widow, and some inconsiderable
legacies, he devises and bequeaths the bulk of his property to
be distributed among his brothers and sisters in equal shares,
and then, as incidental to his general scheme of distribution,
directs "that any and all notes, bills, accounts, agreements or
other evidences of indebtedness against any of my said brothers
and sisters held by me at the time of, my decease be cancelled
by my said executors and delivered up to the maker or makers
thereof, without payment of the same or any part thereof,"
except two notes held by the testator against John C. Waterman alone, amounting to $12,600, secured by trus deed upon
lands in Missouri, which he directs to be collected and divided
among his brothers and sisters.
The manifest object of the clause is to benefit brothers and
sisters of the testator, and then only. The testator clearly
expresses his intention that (with the exception specified) any
sums of money, which may be owing by any of them to him
at the time of his death, shall not be collected, or be treated as
part of his estate for the purpose of .division among them, but
that all notes, bills, accounts, agreements or other evidences of
such debts shall be cancelled and delivered up. The 'terms of
the exception may affirm or imply an intention to include in
the general provision debts of a brother or of a sister for
which he holds security; but they have no tendency to show
that sums of money owing, from any other person are intended
to be released or given to such person, or to be excluded from
the estate to be distributed among the brothers and sisters.
Taking the words of the clause, in connection with the general scheme of the will, it is impossible to attribute to the testator an intention to include joint and several notes made to.
him, between the date of the will and his death, by a partnership of which one brother is a member, to obtain money to
carry on the business of the partnership, and secured by an

WATERMA-

v. ALDEN.

Opinion of the Court.

agreement to convey real estate. To hold that the brother
alone was discharged from liability, while his partner remained
liable to the estate, upon such notes, would be inconsistent
with the positive direction that all notes coming within the
scope of the clause shall be cancelled by the executors "and
delivered up to the maker or makers thereof, without payment
of the sabme or any part thereof." To hold that there was a
legacy of the whole of such notes to the brother, with a right
to compel payment of a share thereof by his partner, would
be equally inconsistent with that direction, and would moreover give to the brother alone, instead of to him together with
the other brothers and sisters, the share of the debt for which
the stranger was ultimately liable. To hold that such notes
should be cancelled and extinguished as against both makers,
the brother and his partner, would contravene the testatQr's
manifest purpose to benefit brothers and sisters only; for to
release the stranger from his share of the debt would not
only confer no benefit upon the brother, but would injure him
in common with the other brothers and sisters by diminishing
the estate to be divided among them.
The case is quite different from a legacy to a particular
person of "his bond" for a sum named, which must, of course,
pass a joint bond, when there is no other, as in the cases, cited
by the appellant, of -Maitlandv. Adair, 3 Ves. 231, and zon
v. Butler, 2 Price, 34.
The decisions upon. contracts to secure debts of a -particular
person are, to say the least, not inconsistent with this conclusion. A contract of guaranty or suretyship, by which one
person undertakes to be responsible for debts t6 be contracted
by another, does not ordinarily include debts contracted by
the latter jointly with a third person, as partners or otherwise.
Bellairs v. .Ebsworth, 3 Camp.' .52; London Assurance Co.
v. Bold, 6 Q. B. 514; -3ontefwre v. Lloyd, 15 0. B. (N. S.)
203; .Leathley y. Spyer, L. R. 5 0. P. 595, 602; Paliner v.
Batgg, 56 N. Y 523 ; Parha
hr Sewing .- faekine Co. v. Delano,
113 Mass. 194, 197; Wite Sewing .Machine Co: v. Hines, 61
Mich. 423. Even when a man gives security for debts which
he may himself contract, opinions have differed upon the ques-

-202,

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

tion whether it does or does not include debts contracted by
him as a member of a partnership. Eawparte Freen, 2 Glyn &
. 246; chuck v. Freen, Mood. & Malk. 259; Ex _parte MeHenna, 3 DeG. F. & J.,629; Bvfalo Bank v. Thompson, 121
N. Y. 280; HYallowell v. Blackstone Bank, 154 Mass. 359.
For these reasons, we concur in the opinion delivered by the
Chief Justice in the Circuit Court, that the seventh clause of
the will, whether operating by way of release or by way of
legacy, cannot be construed as including the joint, and several
notes of Waterman & Porter, or any part thereof.
-Decreeajiimed.

In re WOODS, Petitioner.
ORIGINAL.
No number. Submitted January 18, 1892.-Decided February 29, 1892.

The questions (1) whether it is settled law in the State of Minnesota that a
judgment of dismissal in a former suit, such as is pleaded in this case,
was not a bar to a second suit on the same cause of action; (2) whether
the law in respect of recovery by a servant against his master for injuries received in the course of his employment was properly applied on
the trial of a case, do not fall within the category of questions of such
gravity and general importance as to require the review of the conclusions of the Circuit Court of Appeals in reference to them.

Tnis was an application for a writ of certioraqito the United
States Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth District. The
court stated the case as follows:
This was an action brought br August Lindvall in the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Minnesota
against John Woods and Stephen B. Lovejoy, partners as
Woods & Lovejoy, to recover for a personal injury alleged to
have been caused through the negligence of the defendants.
The issues were a'general denial and the plea. of former adjudication.

