UNITED STATES v. TEXAS.
Statement of the Case.

the modification of the 5th paragraph, above suggested, the
decree of the court below will be
Affirmed, and the costs in this court divided.
MR. JusTIcE BREwER dissented, being of the opinion that the
construction placed upon this contract by Mr. Justice Miller
on the preliminary hearing in the Circuit Court was correct.

UNITED STATES v. TEXAS.
ORIGINAL.

No. 5. Original. Argued December 9, 1691. -Decided February 29, 1892.
The Supreme Court of the United States has original jurisdiction of a suit
in equity brought by the United States against a State to determine the
boundary between that State and a Territory of the United States, and
that qluestion is susceptible of judicial determination.
Although it is inherent in the nature of sovereignty not to be amenable to
the suit of an individual without its consent, that principle has no application to a suit by one government against another government.
The exercise by this court of original jurisdiction in a suit brought by one
State against another to determine the boundary line between them, or
in a suit brought by the United States against a State to determine the
boundary between a Territory of the United States and that State, so
far from infringing, in either case, upon* the sovereignty, is with the
consent of the State sued.
A suit in equity being appropriate for determining the boundary between
two States, the fact that the present suit is in equity, and not at law,
is no valid objection to it.

The bill was filed by the Attorney General by
direction of Congress, contained in section 25 of the act of
May 2, 1890, 26 Stat. 81, 92, c. 182, "to provide a temporary
government for the Territory of Oklahoma, to enlarge the
jurisdiction of the United States Court in the Indian Territory,
and for other purposes." That section was as follows:
"See. 25. That inasmuch as there is a contrpversy between
the United States and the State of Texas as t6 the ownership
IN EQUITY.

OCTOBER TERMI, 1891.
Statem~ent of the Case.

of what is known as Greer County, it is hereby expressly provided that this act shall not be construed to apply to said
Greer County until the title to the same has been adjudicated
and determined to be in the United States; and in order to
provide for a speedy and Anal judicial determination of the
controversy aforesaid, the Attorney General of the United
States is hereby authorized and directed to commence in the
name and on behalf of the United States, and prosecute to a
final determination, a proper suit -in equity in 'the Supreme
Court of the-United States against the State of Texas, setting
forth'the title and claim of the United States to the tract of
land lying between the North and South Forks of the Red
River where the Indian Territory and the State of Texas adjoin, east of the one hundredth degree of longitude, and
claimed by the State of Texas as within its boufidary and a
part of its land, and designated on its map as Greer County,
in order that the rightful title to said land may be finally determined ; and. the court, on the trial of the case may, in its
discretion, so far as the ends of justice will warrant, consider
any evidence heretofore taken and received by the Joint
Boundary Commission under the act of Congress approved
January thirty-first, eighteen hundred and eighty-five; and
said case shall be advanced on the docket of said court, and
proceeded with to its conclusion as rapidly as the nature
and circuVnstances o-.the case permit."
The relief sought by the bill was the "determining and settling the true boundary line between the United States and
the State of Texas, and to determine and put at rest questions
which now exist as to whether the Prairie Dog Town Fork or
the North Fork of Red River, as aforesaid, constitutes the
true boundary line of the treaty of 1819."
The State of Texas answered and demurred to the bill assigning four causes of demurrer, only three of which were insisted'
upon at the argument, viz.:
"1. That it appears by the complainant's own showing by
the said bill that she is-not entitled to the relief prayed by the
bill against this defendant, in that complainant seeks by her
said bill to obtain from this court a decree judiclally settling

UNITED STATES v. TEXAS.
Statement of the Case.

and determining the true boundary line between the United
States of America and the State of Texas, which question is
political in its nature and character and not susceptible of
judicial determination by this court in the exercise of its jurisdiction as conferred by the Constitution and laws of the United
States.
"2. That it appears by the terms of complainant's bill that
this is a suit by the United States of America against the
State of Texas, and it is not competent, under the Constitution
and laws of the United States of Ameri6a, for said United
States of America to sue one of its component States in .her
own cdurts. And especially is it true that said United States
is not empowered under her Constitution and laws to sue the
State of Texas, in a court of the United States, -for the recovery of a right mutually claimed by the United States of
America and the State of Texas, to wit, the ownership of
certain designated territory, and the establishment of the
boundary line between the respective governments."
". That this court sitting as - court of 'equity has no
jurisdiction to hear and determine this controversy between
complainant and defendant, because, as appears from complainant's bill and amended bill, complainant's cause of action
is legal and not equitable, and that it is a suit or action to
recover certain real property claimel by complainant and
fully described in the bills of complaint; and if complainant
has any right to recover, such right must be asserted, if at all,
in a court of - law and not in a court of equity as herein attempted. And this defendant further says that so much of
the Act of Congress of May 2, 1890, under which this suit
is brought, and which authorizes and directs the Attorney
deneral of the United States to commence in this court in the
name and 6n behalf of the United States and to prosecute to
a final determination a proper suit in equity setting forth the
title and claims of the United States to the tract of land in
controversy, is unconstitutional and void in this, that it is not
competent under the Constitution of tfie United States for the
Congress of the United States to declare that -a suit at law
shall be a suit in equity, ana that legal rights shall be tried

OCTOBER TERM4, 1891.
Argument for Defendant.

and determined in the courts of the United States as if they
were equitable rights."
Mr. A. H. Garland for the State of Texas, in support of
the demurrer. .l&. John Hancock, Xr. George CIark, -Mr.
C. A. Culberson and Xr.H J. XIay were with him on the
brief.
I. Before considering the demurrers it seems to us proper
that the preliminary question should be called to the attention
of the court whether the State of Texas is suable in this cause.
As a St6t cannot be sued without its express consent the inquiry is whether the defendant has authorized this suit to be
instituted and prosecuted against it. In our opinion it is not
a matter of choice of tribunals or expediency of interposing
the ptivilege of exemption from suit, but it involves the jurisdiction of the court, And upon it depends the validity of any
decree which may be rendered. Rhode Island v. .Massachusetts, 12 Pet. 657.
At no time has the State of Texas expressed its consent to
this suit. Neither the executive nor any other officer has
authority to consent that the State should be sued, and it does
not appear that such authority has been conferred upon the
governor by statute: so that, although an appearance has been
entered, the question is still open whether the State is suable.
We do not overlook the settled rule that in cases in which
a State shall be a party, in which this court has original jurisdiction, the adoption of the Constitution gave the consent of
the States to be sued. Rhode sland v. .Massachusetts,12 Pet.
657; in this case, however, as we shall hereafter attempt to
show, this provision of the Constitution is inapplicable. United
Stats v. Ferreira,13 How. 40, and note by Chief Justice
Taney on page 52; Florida v. Georgia, 17 How. 4:78.
II. , The first demurrer suggests not only that the question
is in its nature political but that, contrary to the rule governing controversies between two States of the Union,it is such a
political question that this cout.cannot judicially determine
it in the exercise of the jurisdiction conferred by the Constitu-

UNITED STATES v. TEXAS.
Argument for Defendant.

tion. That a controversy respecting the boundary between
two independent nations is a political and not a judicial question is well settled. A question like this respecting the boundaries of nations, is, as has been truly said, more a political
than a legal question; and in its discussion the courts of every
country must respect the pronounced will of the legislature.
"The judiciary is not that department of the government to
which the assertion of its interests against foreign powers is
confided."
Foster v. _1eilson, 2 Pet. 253, 306; Cker'okee
.Tatioat v. Georgia, 5 Pet. 1; Unitedx 8t6tes v. Arredondo,
6 Pet. 691, 710; Garcia v. Zee, 12 Pet. 511.
This rule undoubtedly applied to the treaty of 1819 between
the United States and Spain, to that of 1832 between the
United States and Mexico and to that of 1838 between the
United States and the Republic of Texas, when they were respectively ratified, and no reason is perceived why, after Texas
was admitted into the Union, a different principle should control. The several treaties remain intact and are the contracts
which define and regulate the relations of the contracting
powers. Wilson v. Wall, 6 Wall. 83, 87.
So, also, the method or tribunal provided by the treaty for
the settlement of differences arising thereunder must be re-'
sorted to; and as the treaties under consideration stipulate
that the boundary shall be determined and marked by commissioners appointed by the respective powers, certainly not
a judicial tribunal, it is evident that in its inception the question was political, to be adjusted according to the course of
nations, and so remains. Green v. Biddle, 8 Wheat. 1; United
States v. -Ferreira,
13 How. 40.
But if the court shall be of opinion that this controversy,
coming over from a time when the two governments were
independent, is not a political question to be determined upon
principles of law applicable to nations, but is analogous to
boundary differences between States of the Union of which the
court has original jurisdiction, (Florida v. Georgia, 17 How.
478; Rhode Ltand v. Xasacusetts, 12 Pet. 657; Alabama
v. Georqia, 23 How. 505, 510; Virginia v. West Tirginia, 11
Wall. 39;) then it is submitted that the judicial power of the
VOL. cxLmi-40

IOCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Argument for Defendant.

United States, and especially the original jurisdiction of this
court, does not extend to controversies between the United
States and an individual State.
III. As to the contention embodied in the second ground
of demurrer, the Constitution provides that the judicial power
shall extend to controversies to which the "United States
shall be a party;" to "controversies between two or more
States;" "between a State and citizens of another State," and
"between a State or the citizens thereof, and foreign States,
citizens or subjects."
The Supreme Court, by the clause
immediately following, is given original jurisdiction only in
"cases affecting Ambassadors, other public ministers and consuls, and those in which a State shall be a party." It is to
be noticed that wherever a State is mentioned in the clause
declaring the extent of the judicial power, the opposite party
to the controversy is also Mentioned and in no instance does
it include the United States. In other words, the parties with
whom the separate States can* have legal controversies cognizable in the courts of the United States by reason of the
parties thereto, are distinctly named and all others are necessarily excluded. Keeping in view the Eleventh Amendment, it
has been justly, said, so far as the present question is concerned, that the controversies over which the United States
courts'are given jurisdiction are "those to which the United
States might be a party; those to which a State of the Union
might be a party, where the opposite party was another State
of the Union." 2 Curtis IHist. Const. 444.
The clause establishing the judicial power is arranged by
subjects and parties, carefully and accurately grouped, and
the cases in which the United States shall be a party are distinctly separated from those in which a State may be. The
cases of whichthis court has original jurisdiction are defined
alone by reference to the parties and only two classes of
cases are included, namely: .those affecting ambassadors,
other public ministers and consuls, and those in which a
State, in cases over which the judicial power is by the'
preceding clause extended, shall be a party. In all the other
cases mentioned .the jurisdiction is declared to be appel-

UNITED STATES v. TEXAS.
Argument for Defendant.

late.

It

eems manifest to us, therefore, that the judicial

power does not extend to controversies between the United

States and an individual State, nor is the Supreme Court given
original jurisdiction in such cases. In this connection, as
strengthening this position and illustrating the purpose of the
framers of the Constitution, it is worthy of mention that
although it was proposed in the Convention to stretch the
judicial power to all questions which "involve the national
peace and harmony" and "all controversies between the United
States and an individual State or the United States and the
citizens of an individual State," neither of the propositions, in
the breadth proposed, were adopted.
A more specific proposition to vest in the judiciary of the
United States authority "to examine into and decide upon the
claims of the United States and an individual S&ate to territory" was peremptorily rejected. Mr. Justice Campbell in
-Floridav. Georgia, 17 How. 521.
That this court is without original jurisdiction in cases in
which the United States shall be a party was held by Chief
Justice Taney in a note to the case of the United States v.
Ferreira,13 How. 52. Subsequently, it is irue, he delivered
the opinion of the court in the case of Florida,v. Georgia, 17
How. 478, in which the United States were permitted to adduce evidence in the controversy between Georgia and Florida,
but neither the decision nor the opinion indicate a change of
views on the subject. The opinion distinctly announces that
the "court do not regard the United States, in this mode of
proceeding, as either plaintiff or defendant; and they are,
therefore, not liable to a judgment against them, nor entitled
to a judgment in their favor."
The true rule on the subject is thus stated by Mr. Justice
Curtis in his dissenting opinion in the above case, and it is not
necessarily inconsistent, we think, with the opinion of the
majority of the .ourt:
"In distributing this jurisdiction, the Constitution has provided that, in all cases in Which a State shall be a party, the
Supreme Court shall have original jurisdiction.. In all other
cases before mentioned, the Supreme Court shall, have appel-

OCTOBER TERM, 1891,
Argument for Defendant.

late jurisdiction. One of the other cases before mentioned, is
a controversy to which the United States is a party.
"I am not aware that any doubt has ever been entertained
by any one, that controversies to which the United States are
a party, come under the appellate jurisdibtion of this court in
this distribution of jurisdiction by the Constitution. Such is
the clear meaning of the words of the Constitution. So it
was construed by the Congress, in the judiciary act of 1789,
which, by the.11th section, conferred on the Circuit Courts
jurisdiction of cases in which the United States are plaintiffs,
and so it has been administered to this day.
'We
have, then, two rules given by the Constitution. The one,
that if a State be a party, this court shall have original jurisdiction ; the other, that if the United States be a party; this
court shall have only appellate jurisdiction. And we are as
clearly prohibited from taking original jurisdiction of a controversy to which the United States is a party, as we are commanded to take it if a State be a party. Yet, when the United
States shall have been admitted on this record to become a
party to this controversy, both a State and the United States
will be parties to the same controversy. And if each of these
clauses of the Constitution is to have its literal effect, the one
would. require and the other prohibit us from taking jurisdiction.
"It is not to be admitted that there is any real conflict between these clauses of the Constitution, and our plain duty is
so to construe them that each may have its just and full effect.
This is attended with no real difliculty. When, after enumerating the several distinct classes of cases and controversies to
which the judicial power of the United States shall extend,
the Constitution proceeds -to distribute that power between
the Supreme and inferior courts, it must be understood as referring, throughout, to the classes of cases before enumerated,
as distinct from each other.
"And when it 'says : ' In all cases in which a State shall be
.a party, the Supreme Court shall' have original jurisdiction,'
it means, in all the cases before enumerated in which a State
shall be a.party. , Indeed, it says so, in express terms, when it

UNITED STATES v. TEXAS.
Argument for Defendant.

speaks of the other cases where appellate jurisdiction is given.
"So that this original jurisdiction, which depends solely on
the character of the parties, is confined to the cases in which
are those enumerated parties, and those only.
"It istrue, this course of reasoning leads necessarily to the
conclusion that the United States cannot, be a party to a
judicial controversy with a State in any court.
"But this practical result is far from weakening my confidence in the correctness of the reasoning by which it has been
arrived at. The Constitution of the United States substituted
a government acting on individuals, in place of a confederation
which legislated for the States in their collective and sovereign
capacities. The continued existence of the States, under a
republican form of government, is made essential to the existence of the national government. And the fourth section of
-the fourth article of the Constitution pledges the power of the
nation to guarantee to every State a republican form of government ; to protect each against invasion, and, on application
of its legislature or executive, against domestic violence. This
conservative duty of the whole towards each of its parts, forms
no exception to the general proposition, that the Constitution
confers on the United States powers to govern the people, and
not the States.
"There is, therefore, nothing in the general plan of the
Constitution, or in the nature and objects of the powers it
confers, or in the relations between the general and state governments, to lead us to expect to find there a grant of power
over judicial controversies between the government of the
Union and the several States."
If this position be sound it necessarily follows that the act
of Congress under which the suit is instituted is void.
rakrbarry v. Jfadison, 1 Cranch, 137. In re .fetzger, 5 H'ow. 176.
IV. It is finally insisted, as ground of demurrer, and set
out in the amended answer of defendant, "that this court
sitting as a court of equity has no jurisdiction to hear and
determine this controversy between complainant and defendant."
If it be true that the right asserted under the act of Con-

630"

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

gress and set out in the bill is a legal tnd not' an equitable
right, there can be no doubt of the want of authority in Congress to direct its prosecution by proceedings in equity, for the
distinction between legal and equitable rights and remedies.is
recognized by the Constitution. Bennett v. Butterworth, 11
How. 669; Thompson v. Railroad Companies, 6 Wall. 134;
-Scottv. Neely, 140 U. S. 106.
The right claimed by the United States in this case is the
legal title to the body of land forming the county of Greer.
It asserts this legal title, undertakes to trace it through solemn muniments and seeks to recover possession of the land.
The State of Texas also claims title to-the land through the
same treaties, and asserts its right of possession not only
under. said treaties, but -under the reservation of ownership
cont;ined in the articles of annexation, to the United States.
It is believed the cause of action as defined in the act and
set out in the bill is legal and not equitable, and consequently
the bill should be dismissed. Lewis v. CockS, 23 Wall. 466;
Lokei v. Rolle, 3 Ves. Jr. 4; Cavedo v. Billings, 16 Florida,
261.
.A. Edgar Allan (with whom was .br. Attorney General
on the brief) for the United States, opposing.
MR. JusTicE HAx

delivered the opinion of the court.

This suit was brought by original bill in this court pursuant
to the act of May 2, 1890, providing a temporary government
for the Territory of Oklahoma. The 25th section recites the
existence of a controversy between the United States and'the
State of Texas as to the ownership of what is designated on
the map of Texas as Greer County, and provides that the act
shall not be construed to apply to that county until the title
to the same has been adjudicated and determined to be in the
United States. In 'order that there might be a speedy and
-anal judicial determination of this cbntroversy the Attorney
'eneral of the United States was authorized and directed to
;ommence and prosecute on behalf of the United States a

UNITED STATES v. TEXAS.
Opinion of the Court.

proper suit in equity in this court against the State of Texas,
setting forth the title of the United States to the country
lying between the North and South Forks of the Red River
where the Indian Territory and the State of Texas adjoin,
east of the one hundredth degree of longitude, and claimed by
the State of Texas as within its boundary. 26 Stat. 81, 92,
c. 182, ยง 25.
The State of Texas appeared and filed a demurrer, and, also,
an answer denying the material allegations of the bill. The
case is now before the court only upon the demurrer, the principal grounds of which are: That the question presented is
political in its nature and character, and not susceptible of
judicial determination by this court in the exercise of its jurisdiction as conferred by the Constitution and laws of the United
States; that it is not competent for the general government
to bring suit against a State of the Union in one of its own
courts, especially when the right to be maintained is mutually
asserted by the United States and the State, namely, the ownership of certain designated territory; and that the plaintiff's
cause of action, being a suit to recover real property, is legal
and not equitable, and, consequently, so much of the act of
May 2, 1890, as authorizes and directs the prosecution of a suit
in'equity to determine the rights of the United States to the
territory in question is unconstitutional and void.
The necessity of the present suit as a measure of peace between the General Government and the State of Texas, and
the nature and importance of the questions raised by the
demurrer, will appear from a statement of the principal facts
disclosed by the bill and amended bill.
By a treaty between the United States and Spain, made
February 22, 1819, and ratitled February 19, 1821, it was
provided:
"AT. 3. The- boundary line between the two countries,
west of the Mississippi, shall begin on the Gulph of Mexico,
at the mouth of the river Sabine, in the sea, continuing north,
along the western bank of that river, to the 32d degree of
latitude; thence, by a line due north, to the degree of latitude
where it strikes the Rio Roxo of Natchitoches or Red River;

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

/

then following the course of the Rio Roxo, westward, to-the
degree of longitude 100 west from London and 23 from Waington; then, crossing the said Red River, and running thence,
by a line due-north, to the river Arkansas; thence, following
the course of tho southern bank of the Arkansas, to its source,
in latitude 42 north; and thence, by that parallel of latitude,
to the South Sea. The whole being as laid down in Melish's
map of the United States, published at Philadelphia, improved
to the 1st of January, 1818. But, if the source of the Arkansas River shall be found to fall north or south of latitude 42,
then the line shall run from the said source due south or north,
as the case may be, till it meets the said parallel of latitude
42, and thence, along the said parallel, to the South Sea. All
the islands in the Sabine, and the said Red and Arkansas
Rivers, throughout the courseathus described, to belong to the
United States; but the use of the waters, and the navigation
of the Sabine to the sea, and of the said rivers Roxo and
Arkansas, throughout the extent of the said boundary, on
their respective banks, shall be common to the respective
inhabitants of both nations.
"The two high contracting parties agree to cede and renounce all their rights, claims and pretensions to the territories described by the said line; that is to say: the United
States hereby cede to his Catholic Majesty,. and renounce forever, all their rights, claims and pretensions, to the territories
lying west and south of the above-described line; and in like
manner, his Catholic Majesty cedes to the said United States,
all his rights, claims and pretensions, to any territories east*
and north of the said line; and for himself, his heirs and successors, renounces all claim to the said territories forever."
8 Stat. 252, 254, 256, Art. 3.
For-the purpose of fixing the line with precision, and of
placing landmarks to designate the limits of both nations,
it was stipulated that each appoint a commissioner and a surveyor, who should meet, before the end of one year from the
ratification of the treaty, at Natchitoches, on the Red River,
and run and mark the line "from the mouth of the Sabine to
the Red River, and from the Red River to the River Arkan-

UNITED STA:TES v. TEXAS.
Opinion of the Court,

sas, and to ascertain the latitude of the source of the said river
Arkansas, in conformity to what is above agreed upon and
stipulated, and the line of latitude 42, to the South Sea;"
making out plans and keeping journals of their proceedings,
and the result to be considered as part of the treaty, having
the same force as if it had been inserted, therein, Art. 4,
8 Stat. 256.
At the date of the ratification of this treaty, the country
now constituting Texas belonged to Mexico, part of the monarchy of Spain. Subsequently, in 1821, Mexico became a separate independent power, whereby the boundary line designated in the treaty of 1819 became the line between the
United States and Mexico.
On the 12th of January, 1828, a treaty between the United
States and Mexico was concluded, and subsequently, April 5,
1832, was ratified, whereby, as between those governments,
the validity of the limits defined by the treaty of 1819 was
confirmed. 8 Stat. 372.
By a treaty concluded April 25, 1838, between the United
States and the Republic of Texas, which was ratified and proclaimed October 13, 1838, it was declared that the treaty of
limits mad6 and concluded in 1828 between the United States
and Mexico "is binding upon the Republic of Texas." And
in order to prevent future disputes and collisions in regard to
the boundary between the two countries; as designated by the
treaty of 1828, it was stipulated:
"ART. 1. Each of the contracting parties shall appoint a
commissioner and surveyor, who shall meet before the termination of twelve months from the exchange of the ratifications
of this convention, at New Orleans, and proceed to run and
mark that portion of the said boundary which extends from
the mouth of the Sabine, where that river enters the Gulf of
Mexico, to the Red River. They shall make out plans and
keep journals of their proceedings, and the result agreed upon
by them shall be considered as part of this convention, and
shall have the same force as if it were inserted therein. . .
" AT. 2. And it is agreed that until this line is marked
out as is provided for in the foregoing article, each of the con:

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

tracting parties shall continue to exercise jurisdiction in all
territory over which its jurisdiction.has hitherto been exercised,
and that the remaining portion of the said boundary line shall
be run and marked at such time hereafter as may suit the convenience of both the contracting parties, until which time each
of the said parties shall exercise without the interference of
the other, within the territory of which the boundary shall
not have been so marked and run, jurisdiction to the same
extent to which it has been heretofore usually exercised."
.8 Stat. 511.
The treaty of 1838 had not been executed on the 1st day
of March, 1845, when Congress, by joint resolution, consented
that "the territory properly included within, and rightfully
belonging to the Republic of Texas, may be erected into a
new State" upon certain conditions. 5 Stat. 797. Those conditions having been accepted, Texas by a joint resolution of
Congress passed December 29, 1845, was admitted into the
Unio. on an equal footing '--ith the original States in all
respects whatever. 9 Stat. 108.
By an act of Congress, approved September 9, 1850, certain
propositions were made on behalf of the United States to the
State of Texas, to become obligatory upon the parties when
accepted by Texas, if such acceptance was given on or before
December 1, 1850. One of those propositions was that Texas
would agree that its boundary on the north should commence
at the point at which the meridian of one hundred degrees
west from Greenwich is intersected by the parallel of thirtysix degrees thirty minutes north latitude, and rjm from that
point due west to the meridian of one hundred and three
degrees west from Greenwich, thence due south to the thirtysecond degree of north latitude, thence on the parallel of
.thirty-two degrees of north latitude to the Rio Bravo de
Norte, and thence with the channel of said river to the Gulf
of Mlexico; another, that Texas cede to the United States all
her claim to territory exterior to the above limits and boundaries. In consideration-of -said establishment of boundaries,
cessio '- f bim 'fo territory and relinquishment of claims,
the United States agreed to pay to Texas the sum of -6 mil-

UNITED STATES v. TEXAS. โข
Opinion of the Court.

lions of dollars in a stock bearing five per cent interest, and
redeemable at the end of fourteen years, the interest payable
half-yearly at the Treasury of the United States. 9 Stat. 446,
c. 49.
By an act of assembly approved November 25, 1850, -the
above propositions were accepted by Texas, and it agreed to
be bound by them according to their true import.
During the whole period of nearly forty years succeeding
the treaty of 1819 no action, except as abov6 indicated, was
taken to settle the boundary line in question. But, in the
year 1859, a joint commission on the part of the United States
and Texas commenced the work of running that line, but
separated without reaching any conclusion. Nevertheless, in
1860, the .commissioner upon the part of the United States
completed theP work, without the coperation of the commissioner of Texas, and reported t1ie result to the General Land
Office in 1861. According to the determination of the Commissioner on the part of the United States, and under certain
surveys made from 1857 to 1859, pursuant to a contract
between two persons named Jones and Brown and the Commissioner of Indian Affairs, the true dividing and boundary
line between the United States and the United Mexican States
began where the one hundredth meridian touched the main
Red River aforesaid, running thence along the line or course
of what is now known as the South Fork of the Red River or
river of the treaty of 1819.
After the commissioners of the United States and Texas
had failed to reach an agreement, the legislature of Texas, by
an act approved February 8, 1860, declared, "that a1l the territory contained in the following limits, to wit: Beginning at
the confluence of Red River and Prairie Dog River, thence
running up Red River, pasing the mouth of South Fork and.
following main or North Red River to its intersection with
the twenty-third degree of west longitude; thence due north
across Salt Fork and Prairie Dog River, and thence following
that river to the place of beginning; be, and the same is
hereby, created into a county to be known by the name and
style of the county of Greer." And by acts of its offlctv-r,

OCTOBER- TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

proceeding under its statutes, Texas assumed and exercised
control and jurisdiction of the territory constituting what is
called the county of Greer.
Notwithstanding those assertions of control and jurisdiction,
Texas, by an act approved .ay 2, 1882, made provision for
running and marking the line in question. That act provided
for the appointment by the governor of a suitable person or
persons, who, in conjunction with such person or persons as
might be appointed by or on behalf of the United States for
the same purpose, should run and mark the boundary line between the Territories of the United States and the State of
Texas, in order that " the question may be definitely settled
as to the true location of the one hundredth degree of longitucec west from London, and whether the North Fork of Red
River, or the Prairie Dog Fork of said river, is the true Red
River designated in the treaty between the United States and
Spain, made February 22, 1819."
By an act of Congress, approved January 91, 1885, provision
was made for the appointment of a commission by the President to act with the commission to be appointed by the Siate
of Texas in ascertaining and marking the point where the one
hundredth meridian of longitude crosses Red River, in accordance with the terms of the treaty of 1819; the person or persons so appointed to make report of his or their action in the
premises to the Secretary of the- Interior, who should transmit
the same to Congress at its next session after the report was
made. 23 Stat. 296, c. 47.
Under the last-mentioned acts a joint commission was organized, and it assembled at Galveston, Texas, on February 23,
1886. Being unable to agree as to whether the stream now
known as the North Fork of the Red River, or that now
called the South Fork or Main leed River, was the river referred to in the treaty of 1819, the joint commission adjourned
sine die with the understanding that each commission would
make its report to the proper authorities and await instructions. The commissioners on the part of the United States
reported that "the Prairie Dog Town Fork is the true boundary, and that the monument should be placed at the intersec-

'UNITED STATES v. TEXAS.

1637

Opinion of the Court.

tion of the one hundredth meridian with this stream;" while
the commission on the part of Texas reported that "the North
Fork of Red River, as now named and delineated on the maps,
is the Rio Roxo or Red River delineated on Melish's maps, described in the treaty of February 22, 1819., and is the boundary
line of said treaty to the point where the one hundredth degree
of west longitude crosses the same."
The United States claims to have jurisdiction over all the territory acquired by the treaty of 1819, containing 1,511,576.17
acres, between what has been designated as the Prairie Dog
Town Fork,. or Main Red River, and the North Fork of Red
River, being the extreme portion of the Indian Territory lying
west of the North Fork of the Red River, and east of the one
hundredth meridian of west longitude from Greenwich; and
that its right to said territory, so far from having been relinquished, has been continuously asserted from the ratification
of the treaty of 1819 to the present time.
The bill alleges that the State of Texas, without right,
claims, has taken possession of, and endeavors to extend its
laws and jurisdiction over, the disputed territory, in violation
of the treaty rights of the United States; that, during the
year 1887, it gave public notice of its purpose to survey and
place upon the market for sale, and otherwise dispose of, that
territory; and that, in consequence of its proceeding to eject
bona ftde settlers from certain portions thereof,' President
Cleveland, by proclamation issued December 3C, 1887, warned
all persons, whether claiming to act as officers of the county
of Greer, or otherwise, against selling or disposing of, or attempting to sell or dispose of, any of said lands, or from exercising or attempting to exercise any authority over them, and
"against purchasing any part of said territory from any person or persons whatever." 25 Stat. 1483.
The relief asked is a decree determining the true line between the United States and the State of Texas, and whether
the land constituting what is called "Greer County," is within
the boundary and jurisdiction of the United States or of the
State of Texas. The government prays that its rights,- as
asserted in the bill, be established, and that it have such otner
relief as the nature of the case may require.

638

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

In support of the contention that the ascertainment of the
boundary between a Territory of the United States and one
of the States of the Union is Political in its nature and character, and not susceptible of judicial determination, the defendant cites Foster v. -Neilson, 2 Pet. 253, 307, 309; C]erokee
-Nationv. Georgia, 5 Pet. 1, 21; United States v. Arredondo,
6 Pet. 691, 711; and Garcia v. Lee, 12 Pet. 511, 517.
In Foster v. .eilson, which was an action to recover certain
lands in Louisiana, the controlling question was as to whom
the country between the Iberville and the Perdido rightfully
belonged at the time the title of the plaintiff in that case was
acquired. The United States, the court said, had perseveringly insisted that by the treaty of St. Ildefonso made October
1, 1800, Spain ceded the disputed territory as part of Louisiana
to France, and that France by the treaty of Paris of 1803 Ceded
it to the United States. Spain insisted that the cession to
France comprehended only the territory which at that time
was denominated Louisiana. After examining various articles
of the treaty of St. Ildefonso, Chief Justice IMarshall, speaking
for the court, said: "In a controversy between two nations
concerning national boundary, it is scarcely possible that the
courts of either should refuse to abide by the measures adopted
by its own government. There being -no common tribunal to
decide between them, each determines for itself on its own
rights, and if they cannot adjust their differences peaceably,
the right remains with the strongest. The judiciary is not;
that department of the government to which the assertion of
its interests against foreign powers is confided; and its duty
commonly is to decide upon individual rights, according to
those principles which the -political departments of the nation
have established. If the course of the nation has been a plain
one, its courts would hesitate to pronounce it erroneous."
Again: "After these acts of sovereign power over the territory in dispute, asserting the American construction of the
treaty by which the government claims it, to maintain the
opposite- construction in its own courts would certainly be an
anomaly in the history and practice of nations. If those departments which are entrusted with the foreign intercourse

UNITED STATES v. TEXAS.

639

Opinion of the Court.

of the nation, which assert and maintain its interests against
foreign powers, have unequivocally asserted its rights of dominion over a country of which it is in possession, and which it
claims under a treaty; if the legislature has acted on the construction thus asserted, it is not in its own courts that this construction is to be denied. A question like this respecting the
boundaries of nations, is, as has been truly said, more a political than a legal question; and, in its discussion, the courts of
evtry country must respect the pronounced will of the legislature."
In United States v. Arredondo the court, referring to Foster
v. Nfeilson, said: "This court did not deem the settlement of
boundaries a judicial but a political tuestion - that it was not
its duty to lead, but tofollow the A tion of the other departments of the government." The same principles were recognized ;.nClerokee _Sation v. Georgia and Garciav. Lee.
These authorities do not control the present case. They
relate to questions of boundary between independent nations,
and have no application to a question of that character arising
between the General Government and one of the States-composing the Union, or between two States of the Union. By
the Articles of Confederation, Congr~ess was made "the last
resort on appeal in all disputes and differences" then subsisting or which thereafter might arise "between two or more
States concerning boundary, jurisdiction or any other cause
whatever;" the authority so conferred to be exercised by a
special tribunal to be organized in the mode prescribed in
those Articles, and its judgment to be final and conclusive.
Art. 9. At the time of the adoption of the Constitution there
existed, as this court said in Rhode Island v. XJassachusett.?,
12 Pet. 657, 723, 724, controversies between eleven States, in
respect to boundaries, which had continued from the first
settlement of the colonies. The necessity for the creation of
some tribunal for the settlement of these and like controversies
that might arise, under the new government to be formed,
must, therefore, have been perceived by the framers of the
Constitution, and, consequently, aiaong the controversies to
which the judicial power of the United States was extended

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

by the Constitution, we find those between two or more
States. And that a controversy between two or more States,
in respect to boundary, is one to which, under the Constitution, such judicial power extends, is no longer an open question in this court. The cases of Rhkode !7,landv. .Massac]usetfs, 12 Pet. 657; New Jersey v. -New York, 5 Pet. 284-, 290;
.Missouri v. Iowa, 7 How. 660; -Floridav. Georgia, 17 How.
478;- Alabama v. Georgia, 23 How. 505; Virginia v. TFest
'irginia, 11 Wall. 39, 55; .2lissouri v. Kentucky, 11 Wall.
395; Indiana v. -entucky, 136 U. S. 479; and Nebraska v.
iowa, ante, 359, were all original suits, in this court, for the
judicial determination of disputed boundary lines between
States. In New Jersey v. New York, 5 Pet. 284, 290, Chief
Justice Marshall said: "It has then been settled by-our predecessors, on great deliberation, that this court may exercise its
original jurisdiction in suits against a State, under the authority conferred by the Constitution and existing acts of Congress." And in Viginia v. West Virginia, it was said by
M r. Justice Miller to be the established doctrine of this court
"that it has jurisdiction of questions of boundary between two
States of this Union, and that this jurisdiction is not defeated,
because in deciding that question it becomes necessary to
examine into and construe comliacts or agreements between
those States, or because the decree which the court may render, affects the territorial limits of the political jurisdiction
and sovereignty of the States which are parties to the proceeding." So, in Wisconsin v. Pelican _Ts. Co., 127 U. S.
265, 287, 288 ; "By the Constitution, therefore, this court has
original jurisdiction of suits brought by a State against citizens
of another State, as well as of controversies between two
States... ..
As to 'controversies between two or more
States.' "The most numerous class of which this court has
entertained jurisdiction is that of controversies between two
States as to the boundaries of their territory, such as were
determined before the Revolution by the King in Council, and
under the Articles of Confederation (while there was no national judiciary) by committees or commissioners appointed
by Congress."

UNITED STATES v. TEXAS.
Opinion of the Court.

In view of these cases, it cannot, with propriety, be said
that a question of boundary between a Territory of the United
States and one of the States of the Union is of a political
nature, and not susceptible of judicial determination by a
court having jurisdiction of such a controversy. The important question tlherefore, is, whether this court can, under the
Constitution, take cognizance of an original suit brought by the
United States against a State to determine the boundary between one of the Territories and such State. Texas' insists
that no such jurisdiction has been conferred upon this court,
and that the only mode in which the present dispute can be
peaceably settled is by agreement, in some form, between the
United States and that State. Of course, if no such agreement can be reached- and it seems that one is not probable
-and if neither party will surrender its claim of authority
and jurisdiction over the disputed territory, the result, according to the defendant's theory of the Constitution, must be
that the United States. in order to effect a settlement of this
vexed question of boundary, must bring its suit in.?ne of the
courts of Texas -that State consenting that its courts may
be open for the assertion of claims against it by the United
States - or that, in the end, there must be a trial of physical strength between the government of the Union and
Texas. The first alternative is unwarranted both by the letter
and spirit of the Constitution. Mr. Justice Story has well
said: "It scarcely seems possible to raise a reasonable doubt
as to the propriety of giving to the national courts jurisdiction
of cases in which the United States are a party. It would be
a perfect novelty in the history of national jurisprudence, as
well as of public law, that a sovereign had no authority tb sue
in his own courts. Unless this power were given to the United
States, the enforcement of all their rights, powers, contracts
and privileges in their sovereign capacity would be at the'
mercy of the States. They must be enforced, if at all, in the
state tribunals." Story Const. ยง 1674. The second afternative, above mentioned, has no place in our constitutional system, and cannot be contemplated by any patriot except with
feelings of deep concern.
VOL.

cxLm-41

612 -

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

The cases in this court show that the framers of the Constitution did provide, by that instrument, for the judicial deter.
mination of all cases in law and equity between two or more
States, including those involving questions of boundary. Did
they omit to provide for the judicial determination of controversies arising between the United States and one or more of
the States of the Union? This question is in effect answered
by United States v. _North Carolina, 136 U. S. 211. That
was an action of debt brought in this court by the United
States against the State of North Carolina, upon certain bonds
issued by that State. The State appeared, the case was determined here upon its merits, and judgment was rendered for
the State. It is true that no question was made as to the
jurisdiction of this court, and nothing was therefore said in
the opinion upon that subject. But it did not escape the attention of the court, and the judgment would not have been
rendered except upon the theory that'this court has original
jurisdiction of a suit by the United States against a State.
As, however, the question of jurisdiction is vital in this case,
and is distinctly raised, it is proper to consider it upon its

merits.
The Constitution extends the judicial power of the United
States "to all cases, in law and equity, arising under this Constitution, the laws of the United States and treaties made, or
which shall be made, under their authority; to all cases affecting ambassadors, other public ministers and consuls; to all
cases of admiralty and maritime- jurisdiction; to controversies
to which the United States shall be a party; to controversies
between two or more States; between a State and citizens of
another State; between citizens of different States; between
citizens.of the same State claiming lands under grants of different States, and between a State or the.citizens thereof and
foreign States, citizens or subjects.
"In all cases, affecting ambassadors or other public ministers and consuls, and those in which a State shall be party,
the Supreme Court, shall have original jurisdiction. In all the
other cases before menitioned, the Supreme Court shall have.
appellate jurisdiction, both as to law and fact, with such ex-

UNITED STATES v. TEXAS.
Opinion of the Court.

ceptions, and under such regulations as the Congress shall
make." Art. 3, ยง 2. "The judicial power of the United
States shall not be construed to extend to any suit in law or
equity, commenced or prosecuted against one of the United
States by citizens of another State, or by citizens or subjects
of any foreign State." 11th Amendment.
It is apparent upon the face of these clauses that in one
class of cases the jurisdiction of the courts of the Union depends "on the character of the cause, whoever may be the
parties," and, in the other, on the character of the parties,
whatever miy be the subject of controversy. Cokens v. rirginia, 6 Wheat. 264, 378, 393. The present suit falls in eac4
class, for it is, plainly, one arising under the Constitution,
laws and treaties of the United States, and, also, one in which
the United States is a party. It is, therefore, one to which,
by the express words of the Constitution, the judicial power of
the United States extends. That a Circuit Court of the United
States has not jurisdiction, under existing statutes, of a suit
by the United States against a State, is clear; for by the
Revised Statutes it is declared- as was done by the Judiciary
Act of 1789- that "the Supreme Court shall have exclusive
jurisdiction of all controversies of a civil nature where a State
is a party, except between a State and its citizens, or between
a State and citizens of other States or aliens, in which latter
cases it shall have original, but not exclusive, jurisdiction."
Rev. Stat. ยง 687; Act of September 24, 1789, c. 20, ยง 13; 1
Stat. 80. Such exclusive jurisdiction was given to this court,
because it best comported with the .dignity of a State, that a
case in which it was a party should be determined in the
highest, rather than in a subordinate judicial tribunal of 'he
nation. Why then may not this court take original coghizance of the present suit involving a question of bounday
between a Territory of the United States and a State?
The words, in the Constitution, "in all cases

.

.

in

which a State shall be party, the Supreme Court shall have
original jurisdiction," necessarily refer t.o all cases mentioned
in the preceding clause in which a State may be made, of
right, a party defendant, or in which a State may, of right, be

OCTOBER TERIN, 1891.
.Opinion of the Court.

a party plaintiff. It is admitted that these words do not refer
to suits brought against a State by its own citizens or by citizens of other States, or by citizens or subjects of foreign
States, even where such suits arise under the Constitution,
laws and treaties of the United States, because the judicial
power of the United States does not extend to suits of individuals against States. Hans v. Louisiana, 134: U. S.'1, and
authorities there cited; North Carolinav. Terple, 134 U. S.
22, 30. It is, however, said that the words last quoted refer
only to suits in which a State is a party, and in which, also,
the opposite party is another State of the Union or a foreign
State. This cannot be correct, for it must be conceded that a
State can bring an original suit in this court against a citizen
of another State. Wisconsin v. Pelican Ins. Co., 127 U. S.
265, 287. Besides, unless a State is exempt altogether from
suit by the United States, we do not perceive upon what
sound rule of construction suits brought by the United States
in this court -especially if they be suits the correct decision
of which depends upon the Constitution, laws or treaties of
the United States- are to be excluded from its original jurisdiction as defined in the Constitution. That instrument extends the judicial power of the United States "to all cases,"
in law and equity, arising under the Constitution, laws and
treaties of the United States, and to controversies in which
the United States shall be a party, and confers upon this
court original jurisdiction "in all cases" "in which a State
shall be party," that is, in all cases mentioned in the preceding clause in which a State may, of right, be made a party
defendant, as well as in all cases in which a State may, of
right, institute a suit in a court of the United States. The
present case is of the former class. We cannot assume that
the framers of the Constitution, while extending the judicial
power of the United States to controversies between two'or
more States of the Union, and between a State of the Union
and foreign States, intended to exempt a State altogether
from suit by the General Government. They could not have
overlooked thle possibility that controversies, capable of judicial solution, &ight arise between the United States and some

UNITED STATES v. TEXAS.
Opinion of the Court.

of the States, and that the permanence of the Union might be
endangered if' to some tribunal was not entrusted the power
to determine them according to the recognized principles of
law. And to what tribunal could a trust so momentous be
more appropriately committed than to tdhat which the people
of the United States, in order to form a more perfect Union,
establish justice and insure domestic tranquillity, have constituted with authority to speak for all the people and all the
States, upon questions before it to which the judicial, power
of the nation extends? It would be difficult to suggest any
reason why this court should have jurisdiction to determine
questions of boundary between two or more States, but not
jurisdiction of controversies of like character between the
United States and a State.
Mr. Justice Bradley, speaking for the court in Hans v.
Louisiana,134 U. S.1, 15, referred to what had been said by
certain statesmen at the time the Constitution was under submission to the people, and said: "The letter is appealed to
now, as it was then, as a ground for sustaining a suit brought
by an individual against a State.

.

.

.

The truth is, that

the cognizance of saits and actions unknown to the law, and
forbidden by the law, was not cohfemplated by the Constitution when establishing the judicial power of the United
States. Some things, undoubtedly, were made justiciabll&
which were not known as such at the common law; such, for
example, as controversies between States as to boundary lines,
and other questions admitting of judicial solution. And yet
the case of Pena v. Lord Baltimore, 1 Ves. Sen. 444, shows
that some of these unusual subjects of litigation were not unknown to the courts even in colonial times; and several cases
of the same general character arose under the Articles of Confederation, and were brought before the tribunal provided for
that purpose in those articles. 131 U. S. App. 50. The establishment of this new branch of jurisdiction seemed to be
necessary from the extinguishment of diplomatic relations
between the States." That case, and others in this court relating to the suability of States, proceeded upon the broad
ground that "it is inherent in the nature of sovereignty not

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion- of the Court.

to be amenable to the suit of an individual without its consent."
The question as to the suability of one ,government by
another government rests upon wholly different grounds.
Texas is not called to the bar of this court at the suit of an
individual, but at the suit of the government established for
the common and equal benefit of the people of all the States.
The submission -to judicial solution of controversies arising
between these wo governments, "each sovereign, with respect
to the objects committed to it, and neither sovereign with
respect to the objects committed to the other," _7JcCulloc v.
&ate of -Maryland,4 Wheat. 316, 400, .10, but both subject
to the supreme law of the land, does no violence to the inherent nature of sovereignty. The States of the Union have
agreed, in the Constitution, that the judicial power of the
United States shall extend to all cases arising under the Constitution, laws and treaties of the United Siates, without regard to
the character of the parties, (excluding, of course, suits against
a State by its own citizens or by citizens of other States, or
by citizens or subjects of foreign States,).and equally to controversies to which the United States shall be a party, without
regard to the subject of such controversies, and that this
court may exercise original jurisdiction in all such cases, "in
Wqhich a State shall be party," without excluding those in
which the United States may be the opposite party. The
exercise, therefore, by this court, of such original jurisdiction
in a suit brought by one State against another to determine
the boundary line between them, or in a suit brought by the
United 9tates against a State to determine the boundary
between a Territory of the United States and that State, so
far from infringing, in either case, upon the sovereignty, is
with the consent of the State sued. Such consent was given
by Texas when admitted into the Union upon an equal footing in all respects with the other States.
We are of opinion that this court has jurisdiction to determine the disputed question of boundary between the United
States and Texas.
It is contended that, even if this court has jurisdiction, the

UNITED STATES v. TEXAS.
Opinion of the Court.

dispute as to boundary must be determined in an action at
law, and that the act of Congress requiring the institution of
this suit in equity is unconstitutional and void as, in effect,
declaring that legal rights shall be tried and determined as if
they. were equitable rights. This is not a new question in
this court. It was suggested in argument, though not decided,
in Fowler v. _Lindsey, 3' Dall. 411, 413. Mr. Justice Washington, in that case, said: "I will not 'say that" a State could
sue at law for such an incorporeal right as that, of sovereignty
and jurisdiction; but even if a court of law would not afford
a remedy, I can see no reason why a remedy should not be
obtained in a court of equity. The State of New York might,
I think, file a bill against the State of Connecticut, praying
to be quieted as to the boundaries of the disputed territory;
and this court, in order to. effectuate justice, might appoint
commissioners to ascertain and report those boundaries." But
the question arose directly in R]Iode _slan v. -Massachusetts,
12 Pet. 657, '734, which was a suit in equity in this court
involving the boundary line between two States. The court
said: "No court acts differently in deciding, on boundary
between States, than on lines between separate tracts of land ;
if there is uncertainty where the line is, if there is a confusion
of boundaries by the nature of interlocking grants, the obliteration of marks, the intermixing of possession under different
proprietors, the effects of accident, fraud or time or other kindred causes, it is a case appropriate to equity. An issue at
law is directed, a commission of boundary awarded ; or, if the
court are satisfied with6ut either, they decree what and where
the boundary of a farm, a manor, a province or a State is and
shall be." When that case was before the court at a subsequent term, Chief Justice Taney, after stating that the case was
of peculiar character involving a question of boundary between
two sovereign States, litigated in a court of justice, and that
there were no precedents as to forms and modes of proceedings,
said: "The subject was however fully.considered at January
term, 1838, when a' motion was made by the defendan t to
dismiss this bill. Upon that occasion the courtdetermined to
frame their proceedings according to those which had been

I- OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Dissenting Opinion, Fuller, Lamar, JJ.

adopted in the English courts,-in cases most analogous to this,
where the boundaries of great political bodies had been brought
into question. And, acting upon this principle, it was then
decided, that the rules and practice of the Court of Chancery
should govern in -conducting this suit to a final issue. The
reasoning upon which that decision was founded is fully stated
in the opinion then delivered; and upon refxamining the subject, we are quite satisfied as to the correctness of this decision."
14 Pet. 210, 256. The above cases, iew Jersey v.,_Aew York,
Missouri v. Iowa, -Floridav. Georgia, Alabama v. Georgia,
Yirginia v. West Virginia, .1fisouri v. Kentueky, Indiana,
v. Kentucky, and fflbraska v. Iowa, were all original suits in
equity in this court, involving the boundary of States. In
view of these precedents, it is scarcely necessary for the court
to examine this question anew. Of course, if a suit in equity
ii appropriate for determining the boundary between two
States, there can be no objection to the present suit as being
in equity and not at law. It is not a suit simply to determine
the legal title to, and the ownership of, the lands constituting
Greer County. It involves the larger question of governmental
authority and jurisdiction over that territory. The United
States, in effect, asks the specific execution of the terms of the
treaty of 1819, to the end that the disorder and public mischiefs that will ensue from a continuance of the present condition of -things may. be prevented. The agreement, embodied
in the treaty, to fix the lines with precision, and to place
landmarks to designate the limits of the two contracting
nations, could not well be enforced by an action at law. The
bill and amended bill make a case for the interposition of a
court of equity.
.Demu rer overruled.
-Mm. CmEF JusTICE FumI
TICE L&mA , dissenting.

R,with whom concurred MR.Jus-

MR.JusTiCE L_xtm and myself are unable to concur in the
decision just announced.
This court has original jurisdiction of two classes of cases

FIELD v. CLARK.
Syllalbus.

only, those affecting ambassadors, other public. ministers and
consuls, and those in which a State shall be a party.
The judicial power extends to "controversies between two
or more States;" "between a State and citizens of another
State;" and "between a State or the citizens thereof, and
foreign States, citizens or subjects." Our original jurisdiction,
which depends solely upon the character of the parties, is confined to the cases enumerated, in which a State may be a
party, and this is not one of them.
The judicial power also extends to controversies to which
the United States shall be a party, but such controversies are
not included in the grant of original jurisdiction. To the controversy here the United States is a party.
We are of opinion, therefore, that this case is not within the
original jurisdiction of the court.

FIELD o. CLARK.
APPEAL

OM THE

CIRCUIT

COURT

OF

THE UNITED

STAPES

FOR

STATES

FIOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

BOYD v. UNITED STATES.
STERNBACII v. UNITED STATES.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF

THE UNITED

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Noo. 1052, 1049,1050. ArguelNovember 30, December 1, 2,1891. -Decided February 29,1892.
The signing by the Speaker of the House of Representatives and by the
President of the Senate, in open session, of an enrolled bill, is an official
attestation by the two Houses of such bill as one that has passed Congress; and when the bill thus attested receives the approval of the
President, and is depositdd in the Department of State according to law,
its authentication as a bill that has passed Congress is complete and unimpeachable.

