MICHIGAN INSURANCE BANK v. ELDRED.

293

Syllabus.
No. 129.

THn

WASHBURN

AN]D

2efOE-W MANUFACTURING

COM-

TINIAUFACTURING COMPANY V. AVILER.
MR. JUSTICE BROWN delivered
the opinion of the court. These cases were consolidated in the
court below with that of Washb r t and Moen Manufacturing Company v. Beat 'Ent All Barbed Wf-ire Company, No. 128, -with a stipulation that the same decree upon the question of the validity and
infringement of the patent declared upon should be entered in all
the causes. They differ only in the fact that in the first case the
suit was against the manufacturers, and in these cases against the
vendors of the. infringing wire. As the cases are identical in every
other particular the same disposition will be made of them, and
the decrees of the court below reversed, and- the cases remanded
with instructions to enter in each a decree for the plaintiff, for an
accounting, and for further proceedings in conformity with the
opinion in No. 128.
PANY V. NORWOOD.

No. 130.

Tim WASHBURx

AND MOEN

. John R. Bennett for appellants.
. A. H. Blairand Mr. William H. Singleton for appellees.

MICHIGAN INSURANCE BANK v: ELDRED.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT

No. 1288.

OF WISCONSIN.

Argued Jatiiary 29,1892.-Decided February 29,1892.

After the term at which a trial took place has expired, without the court-s
control over the case being reserved by standing rule or special order,
and especially after a writ of error has been entered in this court, the
court below cannot allow a bill of exceptions then first presented, or
amend a bill of exceptions already allowed and filed.
Under the Code of Wisconsin, an express denial, upon information and
belief, that the plaintiff was, at or since the commencement of the action,
or is now, a corporation, puts in issue the existence of the corporation.
The conversion of a state bank into a national bank, with a change of
name, under the National Banking Act, does not affect its identity, or its
right to sue upon liabilities incurred to it by its former name.

294

-

OCTOBER _TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

If the whole evidence introduced by thd defendant upon one issue is incompetent to support it, and is admitted and considered against the plaintiff's exception, and the judge, by ruling that this evidence Is decisive
against the the plaintiff's right to recover, without regard to another
issue in the case, induces the plaintiff not to put in evidence on the other
issue, the plaintiff is entitled to a new trial, although he has not also
excepted to a direction to return a verdict for the defendant..
THIS Was an action by the Michigan Insurance Bank, a corporation created and organized under the laws of the State of
Michigan, against a citizen of Wisconsin, upon a judgmen"
recovered by the plaintiff against him on May 13, 1862, in an
inferior court of Michigan for the sum of $4211.56. In the
present action, the writ was dated May 11, 1872, and appeared by the marshal's return thereon to have been served
on June 3, 1882. The defendant originally pleaded the statute
of limitations of ten years, and on that issue obtained a verdict, the judgment on which was reversed by this court at
October term, 1888, because evidence, introduced by the plaintiff, that within the ten years the summons had been delivered to the marshal for service, had not been properly submitted to the jury. 130 U. S. 693.
The defendant thereupon obtained leave from the Circuit
Court to amend his answer, by adding, as a distinct defence,
the following: "Said defendant denies, upon information and
belief, that at the time of the commencement of 'this action
the said plaintiff was, or is now, a corporation created or
organized under the laws of the State of Michigan, or under
the laws of any other State, Territory or government: and
said defendant futher specifically denies, upon information and
belief, that said plaintiff at the time of the commencement of
this action was, or at any time' since then has been, or is now,
a corporation."
On June 24, 1891, the case came on again for ti'ial before
the Circuit Judge, when the plaintiff put in evidence its articles
of incorporation under the laws of Michigan, and the record of
the judgment sued on; and rested its-case.
To support the defence of the statute *of limitations, the
defendant put in evidence the writ and the officer's return.

MICHIGAN INSURANCE BANK v. ELDRED.'

295

Statement of the Case.

In support of the other defence, the defendant offered in
evidence duly certified copies of the following documents, all in
accordance with the National Banking Act of June 3, 1864,
c. 106: 1st. Articles of association, dated June 26, 1865, executed by the plaintiff's directors, by authority of two thirds of
its stockholders, changing and converting it into a national
bank, by the name of the National Insurance Bank of Detroit.
2d. The organization certificate, of the same date, executed
by the plaintiff's directors, under the same authority. 3d.
Instruments signed by such stockholders, conferring such authority. 4th. A certificate, dated July 13, 1865, of the Comptroller of the Currency, that the association had complied with
the provisions of law, and was authorized to commence business.
5th. A certificate of liquidation, made by the cashier of the
association to the Comptroller of the Currency, dated Mlarch 1,
1869.
The plaintiff objected to the admission of these documents,
"because, if received in evidence, they do not show that the
plaintiff does not exist as a corporation; they simply show
the organization of a corporation called the National Insurance Bank of Detroit:" and also ' because the incorporation
of the plaintiff is not affirmatively and specifically denied in the
answer, but denied on information and belief." The objections
were overruled, and the documents admitted in evidence, and
the plaintiff excepted to the ruling.
The defendant then rested; and the plaintiff moVed that
all of the defendant's evidence be stricken out, for the reason,
if it be assumed to be correct, it has not made out any case."
The judge said: "I think on the record as it now, stands on the proof as it now stands - the Michigan Insurance Bank
became defunct and ceased to exist in 1865, when the national
bank was organized;" and refused to grant the motion; and
the plaintiff excepted to the refusal.
The subsequent part of the bill, of exceptions contained no
further exception of the plaintiff, but consisted (except the
formal conclusion) of a stenographer's notes of a desultory
conversation between the presiding judge aid the plaintiff's
counsel, upon the question whether the plaintiff should intro-

OCTOBER TERI", 1891.
Statement of the Case.

duce evidence, which he said he had, to show that the statute
of limitations had not run; and ending as follows:
The judge said, " Even if the right of action was not barred,
you cannot recover." The plaintiff's counsel repeated that
the defendant had offered in evidence the writ and the officer's
return to prove that the action was barred by the statute of
limitations; and that the plaintiff had evidence that the summons was placed in the marshal's hands for service within ten
years after the cause of action accrued, but there would be
no use in putting in that evidence, if, regardless of it, the
court would charge the jury to bring in a verdict for the
defendant. Thereupon the judge said, "I think I will," and
instructed the jury to return a verdict for the defendant, and
they did so.
The bill of exceptions was signed by the judge on June
24, and filed on June 25, 1891, before the adjournment of
January term, 1891. This writ of error was sued out on
June 25, and was entered in this court on July 22, 1891.
At the present term of this court, the case was advanced for
hearing, on motion of the defendant in error, under IRule 26,
clause 4, because it had been once adjudged by this court
on the merits.
On January 26, 1892, the plaintiff in error moved for a writ
of certiorari to bring up the record of the following proceedings at January term, 1892, of the Circuit Court.
On January 16, the Circuit Judge, on the application of the
plaintiff's attorneys, and upon its appearing to his satisfaction,
"from the stenographer's report of the testimony and trial,
that the plaintiff omitted, in the bill of exceptions heretofore
signed," two exceptions which were taken at the trial, ordered,
against the objection and exception of the defendant, that the
original bill of exceptions be amended by inserting after the
judge's words, "I think I will," the words, "to which ruling
the plaintiff duly excepted;" and, after the instruction to
return a verdict for the defendant, the words, "to which the
plaintiff duly excepted." On January 18, after the bill of
exceptions had been amended accordingly, the judge signed it*
nune pro tune as of June 24, 1891, and ordered it to be filed

ITICHIGAN INSURANCE BANK v. ELDRED.

297

Argument for Defendant in Error.

nunepro tunc as of June 25, 1891, being the days when the
original bill of exceptions was signed and filed.
By direction of this court, the question whether the writ of
certiorari prayed for should issue was argued with the merits
of the case.
MJr. George P. .iller

for plaintiff in error.

3P. Alfred Z. Cary and AXr. F. C. Winkler for defendant
in error.
I. Under the Wisconsin statute the service of the process was
the pebna faede time of the commencement of the action.
See. 27, c. 138, Rev. Stat. of 1858. The other time recognized
is delivery to the officer "with the intett that it shall be
actually served."
Bid. One of these two things must be
shown to have been done in this action within ten years after
the rendition of the judgment sued on. The plaintiff's proofs
show a judgment rendered in Michigan May 13, 1862. Had
they shown service within the ten years it would have made
the plaintiff's peimafade case. But it showed service only
on the d day of June, 1872, just three week after the ten
years expired. It was incumbent therefore on the plaintiff to
prove the delivery to the marshal with the proper intent within the ten years. He rested without attempting it. On the
evidence before the court he had no claim to a recovery
against the defendant.
II. The logical effect of the decisions and of the act of Congress (Rev. Stat. ยง 5154) would seem to be that-upon the
conversion of a state bank into a national bank, all of its property, rights, privileges and franchises, including its corporate
existence, would pass to and be merged in the national bank.
What necessity for and how c6uld the state bank exist after
it had been stripped of all its property, rights and franchises?
If it could still exist as a state corporation for any purpose, it
would still be under the control of the state, which is obnoxious and repugnant to the authority exerpised by Congress
over national banks. The act of Congress certainly does not

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

contemplate the existence of two banks after the conversion.
Bence the state bank must cease to exist for all purposes.
2,7 tional Bank v. Colby, 21 Wall. 609; Casey v. Gallie, 94
U. S. 673, 678 ; F rmers'& Mechanics' .gat.Bank v. .Dearing,
91 U. S. 29, 33.
Plaintiff's conversion into a national bank was completed
July 13, 1865, nearly seven years before this action was commenced, and if we are right, plaintiff ceased to exist as a corporation at that time.
MR. JUSTICE GrAY, after stating the facts as above,' delivered
the opinion of the court.

By the 'uniform course of decision, no exceptions to rulings
at a trial can be considered by this court, unless they were taken
at the trial, and were also embodied in a formal bill of exceptions presented to the judge at the same term, or within a
further time allowed by order entered at that term, or by
standing rule of court, or 'by consent of parties; and, save
under very 'extraordinary circumstances, they must be allowed
by the judge and filed with the clerk during the same term.
After the term has expired, without the court's control over
the case being reserved by standing rule or special order, and
especially after a writ of error has been entered in this court,
all authority of the court below to allow a bill of exceptions
then first presented, or to alter or amend a bill of exceptions
already allowed and filed, is at an end. United States v.
Breitling,20 How. 252 ; .iller v. Ehlers, 91 U. S. 249 ; Jones
v. Grover & Baker Co., 131t U. S. appx. 150; Hfunnicutt v.
Peyton, 102 U. S. 333; Davis v. Patrick, 122 U. S. 138;
Chateaugay Co., Petitioner,128 U. S. 544.
The duty of seasonably drawing up and tendering a bill of
exceptions, stating distinctly the rulings complained of and the
exceptions taken to them, belongs to the excepting party, and
not to the court; the trial court has only to consider whether
the bill tendered by the party is in due time, in legal form, and
conformable to the truth; and the duty of the court of error
is limited to determining the validity of exceptions duly ten-

MICHIGAN INSURANOE BANK v. ELDRED.

299

Opinion of the Court.

dered and allowed. -anna v. faas, 122 U. S. 24. Any
fault or omission in framing or tendering a bill of exceptions,
being the act of the party and not of the court, cannot be
amended at a subsequent term, as a misprision of the clerk in
recording inaccurately or omitting to record an order of the
court might be. 1 re Ifig]t, 1341 U. S. 136.
The writ of certiorari prayed for must therefore be denied,
and the case must be determined upon the original bill of
exceptions.
By that bill of exceptions it appears that before the last
trial the defendant, by leave of court, amended its answer by
adding, as a distinct defence, that "said defendant denies,
upon information and belief, that at the time of the commencement of this action the said plaintiff was, or is now, a
corporation created or organized under the laws of the State of
Michigan, or under the laws of any other State, Territory or
government; and said defendant further specifically denies,
upon information and belief, that said plaintiff, at the time of
the commencement of this action was, or at any time since
then has been, or is now, a corporation."
Section 4199 of the Code of Wisconsin provides that "in
actions by or against any corporation it shall not be necessary
to prove on the trial the existence of such corporation, unless
the defendant, by his answer duly verified, shall have specifically denied that the plaintiff or defendant, as the case may be,
is a corporation."
The scope of thi section is shown by comparing it with the
general provisions of section 2655 of the same code, that the
answer of the defendant must contain "a general or specific
denial of each material allegation of the complaint controverted by the defendant, or of any knowledge or information
thereof sufficient to form a belief." A denial of the fact that
the plaintiff is a corporation must be specific and not general,
and a denial of any knowledge or information thereof sufficient to form a belief is not enough. Crane Co. v. Afarse, 49
Wisconsin, 368; Concordia Savings Associatio7 v. Read, 93
N. Y. 474. But an express denial that the plaintiff is a corporation is not the less specific, because made upon informa-

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

tion and belief; and such a denial puts in issue the existence
of the corporation. The plaintiff's objection to the form of
the answer cannot be sustained.
The defence in question is in terms and effect a denial that
the plaintiff at or since the time of the commencement of this
action was or is now a corporation. This was not merely
mnisnomer, properly pleadable in abatement only; it was, in
substance, nul tiel corporation,which is a good plea in bar,
although it would have been waived by the first answer to the
merits of *thecase, but for the leave, expressly granted by the
court, to plead it afterwards. Baltimore & Potomac Railroad
v. Fifth Baptist Church, 137 U. S. 568, 572; Societyfor
Propagatingthe Gospel v. Pawlet, 4 Pet. 480, 501; Jones v.
Foster, 67 Wisconsin, 296.
The evidence offered by the defendant on this point wholly
failed to support this defence, and at most only proved that
the plaintiff sued by the .wrong name. It showed no more
than that the plaintiff corporation, having been originally created by the laws of Michigan, had, in accordance with the
National Banking Act, become a national bank, and its name
been changed accordingly, without affecting its identity, or its
right to sue upon obligations or liabilities incurred to it by its
former name. Act of June 3, 1864, c. 106, ยง44; 13 Stat. 112;
Rev. Stat. ยง 5154; Metropolita'n Bank v. Olaggett, 141 U. S.
520; Atlantic Bank v. Harris, 118 Mass. 147; City Bank v.
Phelps, 86 N. Y. 484, and 97 N. Y. 44.
The admission of this evidence was objected to by the plaintiff, upon the very ground that it did not prove the, non-existence of the plaintiff as a corporation; and an exception to
its admission was duly taken and noted, and embodied in the
bill of exceptions.
The plaintiff afterwards renewed the objection, by moving
"that all of the defendant's evidence be stricken out,.for the
reason, if it be assumed- to be correct, it has not made out
any case." The reason assigned by the judge for refusing
to,grant this motion was his erroneous opinion that on the
proof as it -stood "the Michigan Insurance Bank became
defunct and ceased to exist in 1865, when the national bank

LUDELING v. CHAFFE.
Syllabus.

was organized;" and the plaintiff again excepted in due
form.
Although the subsequent proceedings had at the trial, and
stated in the original bill of exceptions, do not appear on this
record to have been excepted to, yet those proceedings may
properly be considered for the purpose of showing, as they do
beyond doubt, that the judge's rulings in favor of the defendant proceeded solely upon the incompetent evidence to the
admission and consideration of which the plaintiff had persistently excepted; and that it was only by the judge's statements that that evidence was decisive against the plaintiff's
right to recover, even if the action was not barred, and that
he should instruct the jury accordingly, that the plaintiff was
induced not to put in any testimony upon the issue of the statute of limitations. If the plaintiff had put in its testimony
on that issue, the case would have stood just as it did when
before this court at a former stage; and, as was then adjudged, a direction to return a verdict, without submitting
that issue to the jury, would have been erroneous, and would
have entitled the plaintiff to a new trial. 130 U. S. 693.
The admission of the incompetent evidence on the issue of
p ? tiel cor))oration having thus clearly prejudiced the plaintiff, the order must be
Judgment reversed,and case remanded,with directions to set
aside the verdict and to order a new tial.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER

dissented.

LUDELING v. CHAFFE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE

. iTE OF LOUISIANA.

No. 178. Argued and submitted January 8,1892. -Decided

February 29,1892.

The highest court of a State decided that a judgment of another court of
the State, granting a petition to revive a judgment under a statute of
limitations -Qf the State authorizing this to be done upon citation "to

