BOYD v. THAYER.
Syllabus.

of the constitutional provision unless Congress is absolutely
destitute of any discretion as to what shall or shall not be carried in the mails, and compelled arbitrarily to assist in the dissemination of matters condemned by its judgment, through the
governmental agencies which it controls. That power may be
abused furnishes no ground for a denial of its existence, if
government is to be maintained at all.
In short, we do not find sufficient grounds in the arguments
of counsel, able and exhaustive as they have been, to induce
us to change the views already expressed in the case to which
we have referred. We adhere to the conclusion therein announced.
The writs of habeas corpus prayed for will therefore be
denied, and the rules hereinbefore entered discharged.

BOYD v. NEBRASKA ex 'el. THAYER.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEBRASKA.
No. 1208. Argued December 8, 1891. -Decided

February 1, 1892.

Boyd was born in Ireland in 1834, of Irish parents. His father emigrated
to the United States in 1844, with all his family, and settled in Ohio, in
which State he has since resided continuously. In 1849 the father duly
declared his intention to become a citizen of the United States, but there
is no record or other written evidence that he ever completed his naturalization by taking "outhis naturalization certificate after the expiration
of the five years. For many years after the expiration of that time, however, he exercised rights and claimed privileges in Ohio, which could only
be claimed and exercised by citizens of the United States and of the State.
The son, on attaining majority, voted in Ohio, under the belief that his
father had become a citizen. In 1856 he removed to Nebraska, in which
State he resided continuously until the commencement of this action. He
voted there at all elections, held various offices there which required him
to take an oath to support the Constitution of the United States, served
in the army during the war, was a member of a convention to frame a
state constitution, was mayor of Omaha and, after thirty years of unquestioned exercise of such rights and privileges, was elected governor of the
State of Nebraska, receiving a greater number of votes than any other
person voted for. He took the oath of office, and entered on the discharge
of its duties. His predecessor, as relator, filed an information in the

.OCTOBER

TERM, 1891.

Syllabus.
Supreme Court of Nebraska, in which were set forth the facts as to the
declaration of intention by Boyd's father, and it was further averred that
the father did not become a citizen during the son's minority, nor until
the October term of the Court of Common Pleas in Muskinguni County,
Ohio, in the year 1890, when the son was 56 years of age, and it was
claimed that Boyd, the son, never having himself been naturalized, was
not, at the time of his election, a citizen of the United States, and was not,
under the constitution and laws of Nebraska, eligible to the office of governor of that State, and the relator therefore prayed judgment that Boyd
be ousted from that office, and that the relator be declared entitled to it
until a successor could be elected. To this information the respondent, in
his answer, after stating that his father, on March 5, 1849, when the respondent was about fourteen years of age, made before a court of the
State of Ohio his declaration of intention to become a citizen of the
United States, and averring "that his father for forty-two years last
past has enjoyed and exercised all of the rights, immunities and privileges and discharged all the duties of a citizen of the United States and
of the State of Ohio, and was in all respects and to all intents and purposes a citizen of the United States and of the State of Ohio," and particularly alleging his qualifications to be a citizen, and his acting as such
for forty years, voting and holding office in that State, further distinctly
alleged "on information and belief, that prior to October, 1854, his
father did in fact complete his naturalization in strict accordance with
the acts of Congress known as the naturalization laws so as to admit and
constitute him a full citizen'of the United States thereunder, he having
exercised the rights of citizenship herein described, and at said time informed respondent that such was the fact." To this answer the relator
interposed a demurrer, and on these pleadings the court below entered a
judgment of ouster against Boyd, to which judgment a writ of error was
sued out from this court. Held,
(1) That, as the defence relied on arose under an act of Congress and
presented a question of Federal law, this court had jurisdiction
to review it (FIELD, J., dissenting);
(2) That the fact that the respondent's father b ecame a citizen of the
United States was well pleaded, and was admitted by the demurrer;
.(3) That upon this record Boyd had been for two years, next preceding
his election to the office of governor, a citizen of the United States
- and of the State of Nebraska;
(4) That where no record of naturalization can be produced, evidence
that a person having the requisite qualifications to become a citizen did in fact and for a long time vote, and hold office, and exercise rights belonging to citizens, is sufficient to warrant a jury
in inferring that he has been duly naturalized as a citizen.
&nd it was further Held, by FULzam, C. J., and BLATc OR, LnIAR, and
BREWEn,
JJ.:
(5) That, the Supreme Court having denied to Boyd a right pr privilege

. BOYD v. THAYER.
Statement of the Case.
existing under the Constitution of the United States, this court
had jurisdiction, on that ground also, to review the judgment of
the Supreme Court of Nebraska;
(6) That, even if the father did not complete his naturalization before
the son attained majority, the son did not lose the inchoate status
which he had acquired through his father's declaration of intention to become a citizen, and that he occupied in Nebraska the
same position which his father would have occupied had he
emigrated to that State;
(7) That within the intent and meaning of the acts of Congress he was
made a citizen of the United States and of the State of Nebraslia
under the organic and enabling acts of Congress, and the act
admitting that State into the Union;
(8) That Congress has the power to effect a collective naturalization
on the admission of a State into the Union, and did so in the case
of Nebraska;
(9) That the admission of a State on an equal footing with the original
States involves the adoption, as citizens of the United States, of
those whom Congress makes memlers of the political community, and who are recognized as such in the formation of the new
State with the assent of Congress;
(10) That the rule prescribed by ยง 4 of the act of -April 14, 1802, 2 Stat.
155, c. 28, was to be a uniform rule, and there was no reason for
limiting such a rule to the children of those who had been already
naturalized, but, on the contrary, the intention was that the act
of 1802 should have a prospective operation.

THE

case ivas stated by the court as follows:

On the 13th of January, A.D. 1891, leave was granted to
John ALI. Thayer, by the Supreme Court of the State of Nebraska, to file an information against James E. Boyd to establish the relator's right to the office of governor of that State,
and to oust the respondent therefrom.
It appears from the record that *the attorney general of the
State refused to prosecute the action, and this is so stated in
the information, which then alleges:
"1. On the Tuesday next succeeding the first Monday of
November of the year 1888 he, the said John N. Thayer, was
and for more than two years next preceding that time had
been a citizen of the United States and of this State, and then
had and now has all the qualifications required by law to hold
the office of governor of the State of Nebraska.
"2. At che general election of this State, at the date afore-

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

said, for the election of governor and all state officers in accordance with the provision of the constitution and laws of this
State, he was duly elected governor; that he duly qualified
and entered upon the duties of said office on the first Thursday
after the first Tuesday in January, 1889, and ever since then
has exercised and now exercises the duties of said office.
"3. That his said election and oath of office as governor
made it his duty to hold his office for the term of two years
from the first Thursday after the first Tuesday in the January
next after his election and until his successor should be elected
and qualified.
"4. That there was held another general ?lection of thisState on the Tuesday next succeeding the first Monday of
November in the year 1890 for the election of governor and
other officers, and the returns of said election for the officers
of the executive department were, as required by the constitution, sealed up and transmitted by the returning officers to the
secretary of State, directed to the speaker of the house of representatives, who did, on the 8th day of January, 1891, immediately after the organization of the house and before proceeding to other business, open and publish thie same in the presence
of a majority of each house of the legislature, who were for that
purpose assembled in the hall of the house of representatives.
"5. That said returns, so sealed up, transmitted, opened and
published, showed that the whole number of votes cast at said
general election for the several persons voted for for the office
of governor aggregated 214,090; that of said number of votes
so cast for governor James E. Boyd received 71,331, J. H.
Powers received 70,187, L. D. Richards received 68,878, and
there were scattering .3694; and James E. Boyd, being the
person having the highest number of votes for the office of
governor, was by said speaker declared duly elected governor
for the term of two years from the first Thursday after the
first Tuesday of January, 1891, and until his successor should
be elected and qualified; and relator exhibits herewith and
makes a part hereof a duly certified and authenticated copy
of said returns.
"6. That, thereupon the said James E. Boyd took theoath of

BOYD v. THAYER.
Statement of the Case.

office required to be taken by the executive officers before
they enter upon their official duties, and has usurped and invaded the office of governor of Nebraska, and. has unlawfully
attempted and now unlawfully attempts to hold the said office
and perform the duties of governor of Nebraska, and will continue so to do unless ousted therefrom by the judgment of
this honorable court.
"7. But the relator further gives the court to understand
and be informed that the said. James E. Boyd was not at the
time of his said pretended election, on the said Tuesday next
succeeding the first Monday of. November, 1890, a citizen of
the United States, and because he was not as aforesaid then a
citizen of the United States he was not then eligible to the
office of governor of this State, and as yet no person eligible
thereto has been elected and qualified to succeed your informant, and it is the bounden duty of the relator to hold and continue in the office of governor until some person eligible thereto
shall be elected and qualified as his successor; that in truth
and in fact the said James E. Boyd was born in Ireland, of
alien parents, in about the year 1834; that le was brought to
this country when about ten years of age by his father, whose
name was and is Joseph Boyd, who settled in about the year
1844 at Zanesville, Muskingum County, in the State of Ohio,
where he has ever since resided and now resides; that the said
Joseph Boyd, father of the said James Boyd, has never since
he came to this country and settled at Zanesville, Ohio, resided
at any other place.
"That on the fifth day of March, 1849, at, in and during the
February (1849) term of the common pleas court of gaid Muskingum County, in the State of Ohio, the said Joseph Boyd, a
native of Ireland and father as aforesaid of the said James E.
Boyd, and when the said James E. Boyd was about fifteen
years of age, in open court declared it to be his boncaideintention to become a citizen of the United States and to renounce
and abjure forever all allegiance and fidelity to every foreign
prince, potentate, state or sovereignty whatsoever, and particularly the Queen of Great Britain and Ireland; and the following is a true and full copy of the journal entry from the records

OCTOBEIR TERR, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

of the said common pleas court of the said Muskingum County,
Ohio, showing such declaration of intention, to wit:
[Here follows the entry referred to.]
"And your informant has and exhibits to the court a duly
certified transcript of the said record entry as found on nage
187 of said journal, vol. ' T.'
"8. And relator further gives the court to understand and
be informed that the said Joseph Boyd, father aforesaid of said
James E. Boyd, never while the said James E. Boyd was under
the age of twenty-one years applied to be admitted to becolte
a citizen of the United States, and was never naturalized and
never did become a citizen of the United States while the said
James E. Boyd was under the age of twenty-one years; that
at, in and during the October (1890) term of the said common
pleas court, held within and for the county of Muskingum, in
the State of Ohio, and never before and not until after the said
James E. Boyd was upwards of twenty-one years of age, and
not until he was of the age of fifty-six years, the said Joseph
Boyd, father of the said James E. Boyd, a native of Ireland,
and up to that time and then a subject of the Queen of Great
Britain and Ireland, appeared in open court and made application to be admitted to become a citizen of the United States
and proved to the satisfaction of the court that he declared his
intention to become a citizen of the United States on the fifth
day of March, 1849, before the court of common pleas of Muskingum County, Ohio, and also produced his certificate of such
deeJaration of intention, and that he had resided within the
limits of the United States five years then last past and for one
year at least then last past within the State of Ohio, and that
during that time he had behaved as a man of good moral character, attached to the principles of the Constitution of the
United States, and well disposed to the good order and happiness of the same; and thereupon the said Joseph Boyd made
solemn oath that he would support the Constitution of the
United States, and that he did absolutely and entirely renounce
and abjure all allegiance and fidelity to every foreign prince,
potentate, state or sovbreignty, and particularly to Great
Britain and Ireland and the Queen of England, whose subject

BOYD v. THAYER.
Statement of the Case.

he then was; and, the court being then satisfied that the said
Joseph Boyd had complied with the laws of the United States
relating to the naturalization of aliens, it was ordered that he
be, and he then was, admitted to become a citizen of the United
States, and a certificate was then issued to him; and before
that time he had never been and was not a citizen of the United
States; and the following is a copy of the journal entry from
the records of the common pleas court of said Muskingum
County, Ohio, showing such application of the said Joseph
Boyd to be admitted to become a citizen and his admission to
citizenship of. the United States, to wft:
[Here follows the record referred to.]
"And the relator has and exhibits to the court a duly certified transcript of the said record entry as found on page 145
0
of said journal, volume 42.
"9. And the relator further shows that careful and diligent
search has been made by the clerk of the court of common pleas
of said IMuskingum County, Ohio, through all the records of his
said office, and that the only record or journal entry in any shape
or form in said court and in the records thereof of or concerning the declaration of intention to become and application of
the said Joseph Boyd to be admitted a citizen of the United
States in said office is found upon page 187 of Journal IT' and
upon page 145 of Journal 42, and the only record or journal
entries in said office of the naturalization of said Joseph Boyd
is found upon said page 145 of said Journal No. 42, and that
said two entries constitute the only and entire record of the
naturalization of said Joseph Boyd, as shown by the record
and journals of said court; and the relator exhibits and shows
to the court the certificate of the clerk of said court, duly signed
and made under oath, showing such facts.
"10. And the relator further shows that the said James E.
Boyd has never at any time declared his intention to become
a citizen of the United States, nor has he ever made application to be admitted as a citizen of the United States, but he
has ever remained an alien and a subject to the Queen of Great
Britain and Ireland.
"And relator says by reason of the premises and by reason

-

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

of the legal disqualification of the said James E. Boyd to hold
said office of governor the said election for governor was and
is null and void.
"11. And the relator further shows that, notwithstanding
the fact that the said James E. Boyd was and is ineligible to
the offic of governor as aforesaid, and notwithstanding the
fact the relator is 'bound to continue in and hold the office of
governor and is entitled to the peaceable and undisturbed possession of the office of governor and the furniture and records
thereof, yet the said James E. Boyd has usurped and invaded
the office of governor of Nebraska unlawfully and has unlawfully undertaken to perform the duties of said office; and the
relator has refused and refuses for the reason hereinbefore
stated to surrender said office to said defendant and will not
do so unless required so to do by the judgment of this 'honor"
able court, upon due hearing had.
"Wherefore the said John M. Thayer prays judgment that
the defendant, James E. Boyd, be declared not entitled to said
office, and that he be ousted therefrom, and that he, the. said
John M. Thayer, be declared entitled to such office until such
time as some person eligible thereto shall be elected and qualified as his successor, and that the said James E: Boyd be enjoined from invading the said office and from interfering in
any manner with the furniture, records or anything therein or
pertaining thereto, or in any manner interfering or intermeddling with the relator in the performance of the duties of governor of Nebraska."
The respondent, on the 16th of February, 1891, filed his
motion to dismiss the cause for that the relator bad no right,
title or authority in law to institute or maintain the action;
that the petition did not state grounds sufficient to constitute
a cause of action; that the petition showed on its face that respondent was the duly elected, qualified and acting de jure
governor of the State, and entitled in law to hold that office
and bound to discharge the duties thereof for and during the
term of two years from and after January 8, 1891. This motion
was overruled, and the respondent was ruled to answer, which
he did as follows:

BOYD v. THAYER.
Statement of the Case.

"Now comes the respondent, James E. Boyd, and admits
that the attorney general of this State refuses to prosecute this
action, and protests and insists and avers the fact to be that
the information herein is insufficient in law to require the
respondent to make answer thereto, for that it does not show
that said John M. Thayer has any right or title to the said
office of governor of Nebraska, or that he has any right, title
or authority to institute, maintain or prosecute this action, and
for that said information does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.
"Further answering, respondent admits the allegations of
the first, second, third, fourth and fifth paragraphs of the information, except as hereinafter shown. Further answering,
said respondent shows to the court that said John i. Thayei
was, at the regular state election held in the State of Nebraska
in November, A.D. 1888, elected to the office of governor of this
State for a term thereof commencing in January, 1889, and that
upon the canvass of the votes cast at said election he was duly
declared to be so elected;. that the term of said office is fixed
by the constitution to commence on the first Thursday after
the first Tuesday in January succeeding the election and continues for a period of two years and until his successor shall
be elected and qualified; and the respondent further says that
the laws of Nebraska at all the times herein mentioned provided that if a qualified incumbent of the office holds over by
reas6n of the non-election or non-appointment of his successor
he shall qualify within ten (10) days from the time at which
his successor, if elected, should have qualified, by taking the
oath of office, and executing and having approved and filed
for record his official bond in the sum of fifty thousand
($50,000.00) dollars, conditioned for the faithful performance
of the duties of the office, as by law required.
"R espondent further says that the said John i. Thayer
continued as the actual incumbent of 'said office down to the
time when this respondent qualified as governor of this State,
on the 8th day of January, 1891, which was the first Thursday after the first Tuesday in January succeeding the election
in questio'. Respondent further says that the said John IL

144

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

-Thayer has never since the 8th "day of January, 1891, cualified
anew as governor of the State of :Nebraska; that he has not
since that date taken or filed the official oath required by law,
nor has he had his official bond executed or approved or filed
for record, as by law required, to qualify him anew if no party
was elected to hold said office of governor from and after the
said 8th day of January, as he alleges in his information, but
which respondent denies; and in this behalf further alleges
the fact to be that after the said 8th day of January, 1891, the
respondent entered into the office of governor of the State of
Nebraska, and the said John M,. Thayer from that time and
thereafter ?wholly surrendered, abandoned and removed from
said office,' and has not since in any manner, directly or indirectly, occupied or possessed the same or assumed or pretended to assume to perform any of the functions thereof, but
*holly surrendered the same and vacated said office.
"Answering the sixth paragraph of said information the
respondent admits that after his election to the said office and
-the canvass of the reiurns, and after he had been declared
elected to the said office by the speaker of the house of repreSsentatives in the presence of a majority of the legislature, as
required by law, he on the 8th of January, 1891, took the oath
of office, executed and filed his official bond, did all other acts
and things required by law of him to be done, to qualify and
.entitle him to enter into the possession, use and enjoyment of
said office and to discharge the duties thereof, and the respondent denies that he has usurped or invaded the said office
or unlawfully attempted at any time to hold said office and to
perform the duties thereof, but avers the fact to be that at and
from the commencement of the term of his said office, from
January 8th, 1891,,he has been. and now is the duly elected
and qualified governor of the State of Nebraska, in the quiet,
legal and actual possession and enjoyment of said office and
discharging its duties; that he has been -recognized so to be
by all of the departments-and officers of the state government.
"And the respondent further avers the fact to be that the
said John Mi. Thayer. ceased to be-the incu'mbent of said office
in law and -infact with the expiration. of*the 8th day of Janu-

BOYD v. THAYER.
Statement of the Case.

ry, A.D. 1891, and prior to the commencement of this action.
"Answering the eighth paragraph of said information, the
respondent denies all the allegations thereof except that he
was born in Ireland, of alien parents, in the year 1834; that
he was brought to this country, when about ten years of age,
by his father, Joseph Boyd, who settled about the year 1844
in Belmont County, Ohio, where he resided for several years,
and thereafter removed to Zanesville, Muskingum County,
Ohio, where he has ever since resided.
"Respondent also admits that his father, on or about March
5, 1849, when respondent was about 14 years of age, declared
his intention to become a citizen of the United States ana to
renounce and abjure forever all allegiance and fidelity to every
foreign prince, potentate, state and sovereignty whatever, and
particularly the Queen of Great Britain and Ireland, and that
the alleged exemplification of the record thereof copied in said
information respondent believes is a true copy.
"Answering the 8th paragraph of said information, respqndent says he admits the facts therein alleged, except as in this
answer otherwise averred, but denies the conclusions of law
and facts therein stated.
"Respondent further avers that his father for forty-two
years last past has enjoyed and exercised all of the rights,
immunities and privileges and discharged all the duties of a
citizen of the United States and of the State of Ohio and was
in all respect's and to all intents and purposes a citizen of the
United States and of the State of Ohio, at all times disclaiming and abjuring allegiance to every foreign prince, potentate,
state or sovereignty; that during all of said times said Joseph
Boyd behaved as a man of good moral character, attached to
the principles of the Constitution of the United States and
well disposed to the good order and happiness of the same;
that when the said Joseph Boyd settled in the State of Ohio
as aforesaid it was his bona jde.intention to make the United
States his permanent residence; that at that time he did in
fact disclaim and abjure all allegiance and fidelity to the Queen
of Great Britain and Ireland and to every other foreign prince,
potentate, state and sovereignty, and for about 40 years acted
VOL.cXLUI-O

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

in the belief that he was a citizen of the United States, at all
said times exercising the elective franchise without question or
challenge, voting for all officers of the State and Federal governments the same as a native-born citizen of the United States
and of the State of Ohio.
"1Respondent further says that about the year 1870 said
Joseph Boyd was elected to the office of justice of the peace
in said Muskingum County, Ohio, and thereupon took an oath
to support the Constitutions of the United States and of the
State of Ohio, and for several years held said office, exercising
all the rights, franchises, powers and duties of said office, and
has for years last past held office under the constitution and
laws of Ohio, to wit, weighmaster in the city of Zanesville,
which office he now holds.
"1Respondent further says that he was informed by his
father as early as the year 1855 that he, the said Joseph
Boyd, was a citizen of the United States and entitled, in law
and in fact, to all the rights, privileges and immunities of a
citizen of the United States and of the State of Ohio, and that
ever since said time this respondent has so believed and accepted the fact so to be, and never heard the fact challenged or
questioned till after he was elected to the office of governor of
this State, in 1890. Respondent further says that he did, upon
arriving at the age of 21 years, exercise the elective franchise in said Muskingum County, Ohio, iu the fall of 1855.
"The respondent further alleges, on information and belief,
that prior to October, 1854, his father did in fact complete his
naturalization in strict 'accordance with the'acts 'of Congress
known as the nat~iralization laivs so as to admit and constitute
him a full citizen of the- United States thereunder, he having
exercised the rightg of citizenship herein described, and at said
time inforiaed respondent that such was the fact; that when
his father applied to be registered in Ohio in October, 189i,
under a. new law, he was required to produce his citizenship
papers, and being unable to find all thereof, he appeared before said court of common pleas of-M uskingumu County, at the
October tetim thereof, 1890, and the proceedings described in
the 9th paragraph of' the information were had as therein set

BOYD v. THAYER
Statement of the Case.

out, but respondent avers the fact to be, on information and
belief, that in the matter of said proceedings said Joseph Boyd
acted inadvisedly and ignorantly, the said last named proceedings being in that event unnecessary.
"1Respondent further says that in the year 1856, at the age
of 22, he left his father's home in Ohio in the firm belief that
he, respondent, was a citizen of the United States in law nd
infact, to establish himself in life; that he went to the State
of Iowa, where he resided for a few. months.
"In the month of August, 1856, respondent removed to the
Territory of Nebraska, which was then to a large extent a wilderness, and settled in Douglas County, where he resided for
two years, working at his trade as a carpenter,'and in 1857 he
was elected county clerk of said county, and took an oath to
support the Constitution of the United States and the provisions of the organic act under which the Territory of Nebraska
was created. Respondent removed to what is now Buffalo
County, near old Fort Kearpey, which was, then upon the
extreme frontier, in the fall of 1858, where he engaged in the
business of farming, in the midst of great perils from hostile
Indians, suffering years of extreme hardship. In 1864, at the
time of the Indian outbreak in said vicinity, when the lives
and property of settlers were destroyed or endangered, when
many settlers were massacred, when hostile Indians killed
cattle before the door of the home of his family, he volunteered his services as a soldier of the United States, which
were accepted by the United States government, he being
sworn into its military service by order of General R. B.
Mitchell; that he served as a soldier of the United States,
without compensation or reward, to protect the men, women
and children of the frontier and to maintain the authority,
honor and flag of the United States government.
"In the year 1866 respondent was elected a member; of the
house of representatives of Nebraska to represent the counties
of Buffalo and Hall; that he served as such officer iii the following session of the legislature, to which was submitted the
proposition of the Congress of the United States to accept the
first constitution of this State with the- conditions imposed

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

by the act of Congress known as the enabling act, below named;
that before entering upon the duties of said office he took the
oath required by law and swore to support the Constitution
of the United States and the provisions of the organic act
under which the Territory of Nebraska was created.
"In 1868 respondent removed to Douglas County, where he
has since resided. In the year 1871 respondent was elected
by the electors of said county a member of the convention of
the people of the State of Nebraska to form a state constitution, and, -after taking the oath required by law to support
the Constitutions of the United.States and State of Nebraska,
in fact served as a member of said convention.
"In the year 1875 the, respondent was elected by the electors of said county a member of the convention of the people
of the State of Nebraska to form a constitution, which convention discharged that duty in the year 1875, which resulted in
forming the constitution under which the government of this
Stat6 has since existed. Respondent, after taking the oath
required by law to support the Constitutions of the United
States and of this State, in fact served as a member of said
convention.
"In 1880 respopdent was elected and acted as president of
the city council of the city of Omaha.
"In 1881 respondent was elected mayor of the city of
Ofnaha, and served in said office for two years. In 1885 respondent was again elected to said office of mayor, and served for
two years, and before taking the office of mayor each of said
times respondent took an oath to support the Constitutions
of the United States and of the State of Nebraska.
"Respondent further says that during 'said period of over
30 years he has exercised the elective franchise in said Territory and State of Nebraska and enjoyed all the rights, privileges and immunities of a citizen of the United States and of
said Territory and State.
"Respondent further says that for over 32 years hst past
he has been in fact and in law a citizen of the United States
and of said Territory and State; that neither the United States
nor the Territory or State of Nebraskabas ever challenged his

BOYD v. THAYER.
Statement of the Case.

citizenship or sought to oust him of the franchise actually enjoyed and exercised by him to be a citizen of the United States,
and that it is not competent for this relator so to do; that if
his said right and privilege of'.being a citizen of the United
States is subject to challenge, it is solely for the United States
in ils sovereign capacity to challenge the same.
"And he further avers that he was at the time of the election in question and for more than two years prior thereto
eligible to be elected to and to hold said office of governor for
the term in question. "Respondent further says that in 1849 it was his bona ftde
intention to be a citizen of the United States, and that he then
renounced and abjured forever all allegiance and fidelity to
every foreign prince, potentate, state or sovereignty whatever,
and particularly the Queen of Great Britain and Ireland; that
during all the time since he has behaved as a man of good
moral character, attached to the principles of the Constitution
of the United States and well disposed to the good order and
happiness of the same, and all said time has absolutely renounced and abjured all allegiance and fidelity to every foreign prince, potentate, state or sovereignty, and particularly
the Queen of Great Britain and Ireland.
"Further answering, respondent shows to the court that
after his said election as governor and after he had learned
for the first time that his citizenship had, been questioned, and
on December 16th, 1890, he went before the District Court of
the United States for the District,of Nebraska for the purpose
of removing all doubts that might arise thereafter in respect
thereof, and by petition to said court represented to that
court the facts necessary to be known in that behalf touching
his said history and citizenship of the United States, insisting
therein that he was ana. had been for more than two years
next preceding his election to the office of governor in November, 1890, a citizen of the United States, and also representing
to said court that a question had been raised as to his citizenship; whereupon said court, by its judgment, found, determined and adjudged that he was in fact and law a full
citizen of the United States; and respondent avers that he is

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

and for many years last past has been a citizen of the United
States within the meaning.and requirements of the acts of
Congress of the United States, a copy of which petition, judgment and record is hereto attached and made part of this
answer.
"Respondent denies the allegations of the 9th, 10th and
llth paragraphs of said information; except that he refuses to
surrender said office of governor to the said relator, and all
other allegations of said information not hereinbefore admitted
or specially answered.
"Wherefore respondent prays to be hence dismissed with
his costs ii this behalf most wrongfully expended, aud for
such other and further relief as may be just and proper."
Attached to the answer was a duly certified copy of the
-proceedings of the United States District Court therein referred to.
To this answer the relator demurred, and assigned as
grodinds of demurrer that the answer did not state facts sufficient to constitute a defence; that the facts stated were insufficient to justify the respondent in holding and exercising the
office of governor; that the answer showed on its face that the
respondent was an align and ineligible to the office of governor of Nebraska in November, 1890, at the time of his pretended election; that the answer admitted the facts pleaded
in the information, showing the right of the relator to hold
the office of governor; that the exhibits filed by the respondent showed him not to have. been a citizen of the United
Sttes prior to December, 1890; wherefore relator prayed
judgment of the court upon the pleadings that the respondent
be ousted from said office of governor of Nebraska, and that
relator be reinstated therein.
On the 12th of March, 1891, the cause was heard upon the
demurrer, and on the 5th of May of that year the court
announced its opinion, (two of the three judges concurring and
one dissenting,) and entered judgment of' ouster as against
respondent and reinstating the relator in said office. On the
same-day a writ was issued in- accordance with said judgment, and the relator put into possession of said office in place

BOYD v. THAYER.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

of the respondent. The opinions will be found reported, in
advance of the official series, in 48 N. W. Rep. 739. A writ
of error was thereupon sued out from this court. '
31r. James 0. Cowin, .Mr. Henry D. Estabrook and Mr. A.
E. Garlandfor plaintiff in error.
.Mr.
John F. Dillon and _Mr. John L. Webster (with whom
was -Mr. Joseph H. Blair on the brief) for defendant in
error.
James E. Boyd, the plaintiff in error', had not been for two
years next preceding his election a citizen of the United States,
and hence under the Constitution of the State he was not eligible to the office of governor. He was not a citizen of the
United States even at the date of the electio6i. He was fiftysix years of age at the date of the naturalization of his father.
Personally, he never made any application to be naturalized
as a citizen of the United States until the 16th day of December, 1890, which was after the date of the election at which a
plurality of votes was cast for him for the office of governor
of the State of Nebraska.
I. He cannot claim to have become a citizen of the United
States under the provisions of Section 2172 -of the Revised
-Statutes of the United States, for the reason that he was not
under twenty-one years of age at the date of the naturalization
of his father. To bring him within the provisions of that section (which is the act of April 14, 1802) he must have been
"under the age of twenty-one years at the time of the naturalization of his father." Campbell v. Gordon, 6 Cranch, 176;
6mm v. Hubbard, 97 Missouri, 311 State v. Penney, 10
Arkansas, 621; O'Connor v. The State, 9 Florida, 215; United
States v. Kfellar, 13 Fed. Rep. 82.
II. The facts pleaded in the answer to the effect that James
E. Boyd had exercised the elective franchise in Nebraska for a
great many years and that he had held office as a member of
the legislature, as a member of the constitutional convention
and as mayor of the city of Omaha did not make him a citizen,
of the United States.

OCTOBER TERMN, 1891.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

It may be true that James E. Boyd believed himself during
all those years tQ have been a citizen of the United States, but
that is immaterial. A
Aliens can only become American citizens
through the process of naturalization. It will not do to permit the argument to prevail, that he should be adjudged to be
a citizen of the United States, simply because the people of
Nebraska, through ignorance of his alienage, permitted him
to vote and hold office.
The case of _Dryden v. Swinburne, 20 West Va. 89, is on
all fours with this case. In that case section 2172 of the Revised Statutes was construed, and it was held that a naturalization order cannot be made retroactive; that naturalization
cannot be presumed from taking a conveyance of land, voting
and exercising other rights of citizenship; that an order admitting to citizenship rebuts the presumption of any previous
naturalization; that parol evidence was not competent to
prove the fact of naturalization; that section 2172, Rev. Stat.
was but the act of 1802 continued in force, and that it was
not the purpose of Congress by that section to modify or
change the law as expressed in the old statute; and that the
word "now" as used in the Revised Statutes has reference to
the year 1802, when these provisions first became law.
This question has been twice before the legislative department of the government.
Albert Gallatin was born in Switzerland in f761, and came
to the United States in 1780. In the year 1783 he went to
Virginia, and in the month of October, 1785, he took the oath
of allegiance in that State. In December, 1785, he removed
to Pennsylvania, where he purchased land and became a permanent resident. He was elected in 1789 a member of the
convention which was called to amend the constitution of the
State of Pennsylvania, and subsequently he was for three successive years elected a member of the Pennsylvania legislature.
In February, 1793, he was elected a senator from Pennsylvania,
and he came to the Senate and took his seat in. the December
following.
It appears that from the time he took his oath of allegiance
in Virginia, in 1785, to the period of his election as senator,

BOYD v. THAYER..
Argument for Defendant in Error.

in 1793, he had not been a citizen of the United States for
the time required by the Constitution, which is nine years.
The committee appointed to investigate the case made their
report to the Senate, setting forth the foregoing fact. Upon
the coming in of the report of the committee, a resolution
was offered in these words:
".Resolved, That Albert Gallatin, returned to this House as
a member from the State of Pennsylvania, is duly qualified
for and elected to a seat in the Senate of the United States."
This resolution was rejected by a vote of fourteen nays to
twelve yeas. The record then proceeds as follows:
"A resolution was then offered in these words:
"Resolved, That the election of Albert Gallatin to be a senator of the United States was void, he not having been a citizen of the United States the term of years required as a
qualification to be a senator of the United States.
"A motion was made to divide the question at the 'word
void; and
"On motion to agree to the first paragraph on the motion
so divided, it passed in the affirmative: Yeas 14, nays 12.
"O0 motion to adopt the resolution, as follows:
"Reolved, That the election of Albert Gallatin to be a
senator of the United States was void, he not having beea
i citizen of the United States the term of years required as.a
qualification to be a senator of the United States.
"The vote was: ayes 14, noes 12; and so the resolution
was carried."
General Shields was elected a United States senator from
the State of Illinois on the 13th day of January, 1849. He
was an alien by birth. He was naturalized in the Circuit
Court of Effingham County on the 21st of October, 1840.
He took his seat as United States senator on the 4th of March,
1849, when his seat was contested upon the ground that he
bad not been a citizen of the United States the term of nine
years required as a qualification to be a senator of the United
States. He bad resided in the State of* Illinois seventeen
years. He had held a number of public offices. He had been
a member of -the legislature, which required naturalization.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Argnt

for Defendant in Error.

He had held the .office of Auditor of Public Accounts, which
required naturalization. He had been a Judge of the Supreme
Court of Illinois, which required naturalization. ' He had been
Commissioner of the General Land Office. He had been a
General in the United States army, and lastLy had been elected
United States senator.
The question of his eligibility was referred to a committee
which, on the 13th of lfarch, 1849, reported, and the Senate,
after a short discussion, resolved "that 'the election of James
Shields to be a senator of the United States was void, he not
having been a citizen of the United States the term of years
required as a qualification to be a senator of the United States
at the commencement of the term for which he was elected."
III. The fact that Boyd was an inhabitant of the Territory of Nebraska at the time when Nebraska was admitted
into the Union as a State did not have the effect of making
him (lie then being an alien) a citizen of the United States.
The question for consideration is whether the admission of
Nebraska as a State into the Union, on an equal footing with
the original States, as provided in the enabling act and the act
of 1867, made all inhabitants thereof including aliens 12so
.facto citizens of the United States.
Similar or the same language is found in the enabling acts
*bywhich the various Territories were authorized to form state
governments in order to be admitted into the Union of States.
It will be observed by an examination of the enabling act
of Nebraska, as also of various other enabling acts, that it contains no provision touching the rights, privileges and immunities of the inhabitants, upon the State coming into the Union.
The silence of the enabling acts on this subject is here- very
important. The inhabitants of these Territories were living
within the jurisdiction of the United States, were subject to
the jurisdiction of the United States, and were already citizens of the United States except such as were aliens. Those
inhabitants who were citizens of the United States were none
the less citizens by reason of the fact that they were inhabitants of the Territories.
Citizens of the United States do not lose their citizenship by

BOYD v. THAYER.
Argument for Defendant in Error.,

changing their residence from a State to a Territory. Citizens of the United States residing in the District of Columbia
and in the Territories are such citizens to the same extent that
they would be if residing in one of the States. Prentiss v.
Brennan, 2 Blatchford, 162; Peequet v. S&Aan, 5 Mason, 35.
It would not be unfair to state that about as large a relative
proportion of"the inhabitants of the Territory were citizens of
the United States as of the inh'abitants of any of the States of
the Union. There was no occasion, therefore, for Congress to
intend the admission of the State into the Union as an act of
collective naturalization. There was no more urgency or necessity for such a collective act of naturalization for this Territory than there would be to pass a collective act of naturalization for aliens residing, within a State. If Congress had ever
intended the admission of States into the Union formed under
the various enabling acts to operate as a naturalization of all
aliens residing therein, it would doubtless have been so pr6vided in the act itself, in unmistakable terms.
The language of the enabling act has no reference to the
status of the inhabitants of the original States when they came
into the Union, any more than it can be said to have reference
to the footing-or relative rights of the original States at the
time when they formed the Union of States. Indeed, it is
self-evident that no Territory can now be admitted into the
Union as a State with all the rights and privileges which were
possessed by the original States when they came into the Union.
The view which we have expressed to the effect that the
inhabitants of the Territory did not become citizens of the
United States by the admission of such Territory as a State
into the Union, is expressly held to be sound in The State v.
Pd.arose, 3 Alabama, 546. This case is .referred to in the
opinion of the Supreme Court of. Nebraska. We are aware
'of two earlier cases in Louisiana which seem to announce a
contrary view, but we cannot accept them as applicable as
the circumstances and legislative provisions were essentially
different.
The third section of the Treaty of Paris of 1803 speaks
solely of the "inhabitants" of the ceded Territory. It says

OCTOBER TER,

,1891.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

and ad...
the "' inhabitants' shall be incorporated,
to the enjoyment of all
mitted as soon as possible . .
the rights, advantages and immunities of citizens of the United
States, and in the meantime," etc. Neither the circumstances
nor the language make the case analogous or similar to the
Nebraska case.
The Nebraska nabling act empowers only the inhabitants
who are qualified voters, .free, white male inhabitants above
the age of twenty-one years,,who are already citizens of the
United States, or have declared their intention to become
such, to prepare a constitution; and provides that this constitution shall be preliminary to the admission of the State into
the Union, not preliminary to the admission of the inhabitants
to citizenship of the United States.
The closing paragraph of section 5 of the enabling act, re-.
ferring to the former language of the same section, which
relates to the adoption or rejection of the constitution by the
qualified voters, which closing paragraph assumes that the
constitution has been adopted, says: "Whereupon it shall be
the duty of the President of the United States to issue his
proclamation declaring the State admitted into the Union on
an equal footing with the original States;" i. e. the new State
from that time stands in line with every other State in the
Union, with all the privileges and under all the burdens of' a
state government. No mention is made of the inhabitants;
no statement is made that the inhabitants are admitted to citizenship as in the treaty of Paris. No *foreigners or aliens are
adopted, nor are any made citizens of the United Staes.
All the inhabitants of the Territory who were aliens when
the same was made a State remained aliens, and no privileges
were accorded them which they would not have enjoyed before
had they removed from the Territory to a State already admitted. The distinction made in the constitution and the
legislation of that State between citizens and aliens is at war
with the suggestion that all the inhabitants of Nebraska were
citizens of Nebraska and made ipso facto citizens of the United
States by the admission of the State into the Union. How
can such legislation be harmonized with the argument that all

BOYD v. THAYER.
Opinion of the Court.

inhabitants were citizens? If all inhabitants were citizens,
why was there a provision in the Constitution and in the statutes providing that aliens should file their declaration of intention to become citizens of the United States before they were
entitled either to vote or to hold office? To say that the aliens
inhabiting the Territory when the State was admitted into the
Union were thereby made citizens of the United States is in
conflict with the political history of this country from the time
the first State was admitted into the. Union down to the present day.
The Organic Act, the enabling'act, the act admitting the
State, are each and all simple legislative exertions of the powers of Congress, and in no correct sense treaties or the exercise
of the treaty-making power. For the reasons hereinbefore
stated we submit in conclusion of this part of the discussion,
that there is no analogy between the case of the acqeisition
by treaty of foreign territory and the status of the inhabitants
of the Territory so acquired and the case of the national
ownership of the public domain and the status of the people
residing therein with the consent of the national government, which first erects a territorial government and subsequently makes provision to admit the Territory thus erected
as a State of the Union.
Miz. CimF JusTioE

FULLER.delivered the opinion of the court.

(1) In State of jTebraska,ex 'el. Glenn v. Stein, 13 Nebraska,
529, it was held that where the State at large was interested
in a proceeding in quo warranto, the attorney general was, as
at common law, the proper person to institute it, bu 6 when the
information was filed by an individual to oust the incumbent
from an office and install the relator therein, it was a personal
remedy on behalf of the individual claiming to be aggrieved,
and the State was but a nominal party.
In the case at bae the attorney general refused to file the
information,,and the relator 6btained leave to prosecute it in
the name of the State, but on his own behalf, as under the
statute he was authorized to do. Compiled Stat. Neb. 1891,
c. 71, p. 626; Code Civ. Proced. Tit. 23, p. 954.

158

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

By section 2 of article V of the constitution-of the State of
:Nebraska, in force November 1, 1875, it was provided: "No
person shall be eligible to the office of governor, or lieutenant
governor, who shall not have attained the age of thirty years,
and been for two years.next preceding his election a citizen of
the United States and of this State. None of the officers of
the executive department shall be eligible to any other State
office during the period for which they have been elected."
Comp. Stat. Neb. 1891, p. 26.
In United States v. Crutikseank, 92 U. S. 542, 549, Mr. Chief
Justice Waite, delivering the opinion of the court, said: "Citizens are the members of the political community to which they
belong. They are the people who compose the cominunity,
and who, in their associated capacity, have established or submitted themselves to the dominion of a government for the
promotion of their general welfare and the protection of their
individual as well as their collective rights." There is no
atteinpt in this definition, which was entirely suffipient for the
argument, to exclude those members of the State who are citizens in the sense of participation in civil rights, though not in
the exercise of political functions.
The Constitution provides that no person shall be a representative who has not been "seven years a citizen of the United
States," (Art. I, sec. 2, par. 2;) that no person shall be a senator who has not been "nine years a citizen of the United
States," (Art. I, see. 3, par. 3;) that no person shall be eligible
to the office of President of the United States "except a natural-born citizen, or a citizen- of the United States, at the time
of the adoption of this Constitution," (Art. II, sec. 1, par. 4 ;)
and that "the citizens of each State shall be entitled to all
privileges and immunities of citizens in the several States,"
(Art. IV, sec. 2, par. 1.) And Congress is empowered "to
establish an uniform rule of .naturalization," (Art. I, sec. 8,
par. 4.) But prior to the adoption of the Fourteenth Amendment there was no definition of citizenship of the United
States in the instrument.
Mr.. Justice Story, in his Commentaries on the Constitution,
says: "Every citizen of a State is ipso facto a citizen of the

,BOYD u. THAYER
Opinion of the Court.

United States."- (See. 1693.)

And this is the view expressed

bv Mr. Rawle in his work on the Constitution.

86.)

(c. 9, pp. 85,

Mr. Justice Curtis, in Dred Scott v. Sandford, 19 How.

393, 576, expressed the opinion that under the Constitution of

the United States "every free person born on the soil of a
State, who is a citizen of that State by force of its constitution

or laws, is also a citizen of the United States."

And Mr.

Justice Swayne, in The Slaughter-House Cases, 16 Wall. 36,
126, declared that "a citizen of a State is ipso facto a citizen
of the United States." But in Dred Scott v. Sandford, 19
How. 393, 404, Mr. Chief Justice Taney, delivering the opinion
of the court, said: "The words ' people of the United States'
and Icitizens' are synonymous terms, and mean the same thing.
They both describe the political body who, according to our
republican institutions, form the sovereignty, and who hold
the power and conduct the government through their representatives. They are what we familiarly .call the 'sovereign
people' and every citizen is one of this people, and a constituent member of this sovereignty.
.
.
In discussing this
question, we must not confound the rights of citizenship which
a State may confer within its own limits, and the -rights of citizenship as a member of the Union. It does not by any means
follow, because he has all the rights and privileges of a citizen
of a State, that he must be a citizen of the United States. He
may have all of the rights and privileges of the citizen of a State,
and yet not be entitled to the rights and privileges of a citizen
in any other State. For,'previous to the adoption of the Constitution of the United States, every Sta~e had the undoubted
right to confer on whomsoever it pleased the character of 4itizen, and to endow him with all its rights. But this character
of course was confined to the boundaries of the State, and gaNe
him no rights or privileges in other'States beyond those secured
to him by the laws of nations and the comity of States. Nor
hive the several States surrendered the power of conferring,
these rights and privileges by adopting the Constitution of the
United States. Each State may still confer them upon an
alien, or any one it thinks proper, or upon any class or description of persons; yet he would not be a citizen in the sense in

OCTOBE R TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

which that word is used in the Constitution of the United
States, nor entitled to sue as such in one of its courts, nor to
the privileges and immunities of a citizen in the other States:
The rights which be would acquire would be restricted to the
State which gave them. The Constitution has conferred on
Congress the right to establish an uniform rule of naturalization, and this right is evidently exclusive, and hasalvays been
held by this court to be so. Consequently, no State, since *the
adoption of the Constitution, can by naturalizing an alien invest
him with the rights'and privileges secured to a citizen of a State
under the Federal government, although, so far as the 'State
alone was concerned, he would undoubtedly be entitled to the
rights of a citizen, and clothed with all the rights and immunities which the constitution and laws of the State attached to
that character."
The Fourteetith Amendment reads: "All persons born or
naturalized in the United States, and subject to the jurisdiction thereof, .are citizens of the United States and of the State
wherein they reside. No State shall make or enforce any law
which shall abridge the privileges or immunities of citizens of
the United States; nor-shall any State deprive any person of
life, liberty or property, without due process of law; nor deny
to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of
the laws."
In The S aughler-)House Cases, 16 Wall. 36, it was held by
this court that the- first clause of the fourteenth article was
primarily intended to confer. citizenship on the negro race, and
secondly to give definitions of citizenship of the United States,
and citizenship of the States, and it recognized the distinction
between citizenship of 'a State and .citizenship of the United
States by those definitions; that the privileges and immunities of citizens of the States embrace generally those fundamental civil rights for the security fnd establishment of which
organized society was instituted, and which remain, with certain exceptions mentioned in the Federal Constitution, under
the care of the State governments; while the privileges and
immunities of citizens of the United States are those which
arise out of the nature and essential character of the- national

BOYD v. THI&YER.
Opinion of the Court.

government, the provisions of its Constitution, or its laws and
treaties made in pursuance thereof; and that it is the latter
which are placed under the protection of Congress by the
second clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
In Ga~sies v. Ballan, 6 Pet; 761, 762, Mr. Chief Justice
Marshall declared that "a citizen of the- United States, residing in any State of the Union, is a citizen of that State;" and
the Fourteenth Amendment embodies that view.
The Supreme Court of Nebraska decided that James E.Boyd
had not been for two years next preceding his election a citizen of the Uiiited States, and hence that under the constitution
of the State he was not eligible to the office of governor; and
that he was not a citizen of the United States, because during
his entire residence in the Territory from 1856 to 1867, and in
the State from 1867 to November 4, 1890, the date bpon which
he was elected governor, he was a subject of Great Britain and
Ireland.
Arrival at this conclusion involved the denial of a right or
privilege under the Constitution and laws of the United States,
upon which the determination of whether Boyd was a citizen
of the United States or not depended, and jurisdiction to review a decision against such right or privilege necessarily exists in this tribunal. ".fis8ouri v. .Andriano, 138 U. S. 496.
Each State has the power to prescribe the qualifications of its
officers and the manner in which they .hall be chosen, and the
title to offices shall be tried, whether in the jr ilial courts or
otherwise. But when the trial is in the courts, it i "a case,"
and if a defence is interposed under the Constitution of laws
of the United States, and is overruled, then, as in any oth*er
case decided by the highest court of the State, this court has
jurisdiction by writ of error.
We do not understand the contention to involve, directly,
a denial of the right of expatriation, which the political departments of this government have always united in asserting,
(Lawrence's Wheaton, 925; Wbart. Confl. Laws, ยง 5; 8 Op.
Att'y Gen. 139; 9 Op. Att'y Gen. 356; Act of Congress ofJuly 27, 1868, 15 Stat. 223, c. 249; Rev. Stat. ยง 1999,)-but that
it is insisted that Boyd was an alien upon the ground that the
VOL. CxL-11

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

disabilities of alienage had never been removed, because he had
never been naturalized.
N{aturalization is the act of adopting a foreigner, and clothing him with the privileges of a native citizen, and relator's
position is that such adoption has neither been sought nor obtained by respondent under the acts of Congress in that behalf.
Congress in the exercise of the power to establish an uniform
rule of naturalization has enacted general laws under which
individuals may be naturalized, but the instances of collective
naturalization by treaty or by statute are numerous.
Thus, although Indians are not members of the political sovereignty, many classes of them have beeh made citizens. in that
way. Elk v. Iilkins, 112 U. S. 94.. By the treaty of September 27, 1830, provision was made for such heads of families
of the Chobtaws as desired it, to remain and become citizens of
the United States. 7 Stat. 335. By the treaty of December
29, 1835, such individuals and families of the Cherokees as
were averse to a removal west'of the Mississippi and desirous
to become citizens of the States where they resided were allowed to do so. Ibid. 483. By the act of Congress of March
3, 1843, it was provided that on the completion of certain
arrangements for the partition of the lands of the tribe among
its members, "the said Stockbridge tribe of Indians, and each
and every of them, shall then be deemed to be, and from that
time forth are hereby declared to be, citizens of the United
States, to all intents and purposes, and shall be entitled to all
the rights, privileges and immunities of such citizens." 5 Stat.
47, c. 101, ยง 7. And such was the act of March 3, 1839, 5 Stat.
c. 83, pp. 349, 351, relating to the Brothertown Indians of
Wisconsin.
The act of Congress approved February 8, 1887, 24 Stat. 388,
c. 119, was much broader, and by its terms made every Indian
situated as therein referred to, a citizen of the United States.
Manifestly the nationality of the inhabitants of territory
acquired by conquest or cession becomes that of the government under whose dominion they pa~s, subject to the rigbf of
election on theif part to retain their former nationality by
removal or otherwise. as may be provided.

BOYD 4. THAYER.
Opinion of the Court.

All white persons or persons of European descent who were
born in any of the colonies, or resided or had been adopted
there, before 1776, and had adhered to the cause of independence up to July 4, 1776, were by the declaration invested
with the privileges of citizenship. United States v. Ritchie, 17
How. 525, 239; Zglis v. Trustees of Sailors' Snug farbor,3
Pet. 99. In 'ldlivaine v. Coxe's Lessee, 4 Cranch, 209, it was
held that Mr. Coxe had lost the right of election by remaining
in New Jersey after she had declared herself a State, and had
passed laws pronouncing him to be a member of the new government; but the right itself was not denied. Shanks v. Dupont, 3 Pet. 242.
Under the second article of Jay's treaty (8 Stat. 116, 117),
British subjects who resided at Detroit before and at the time
of the evacuation of the Territory of Michigan, and who continued to reside there afterwards without at any time prior to
the expiration of one year from -such evanation declaring
their intention of becoming British subjects, became.ipsofacto
to all intents and purposes American citizens. Crane v. Beeder, 25 Michigan, 303.
By section three of Article IV of the Constitution, "new
States may be admitted by the Congress into this Union."
The section, as originally reported by the committee of detail,
contained the language: "If the admission be consented to, the
new State shall be admitted on the same terms as the original
ones. But the legislature may make conditions with the new
States concerning the public debt which shall be then subsisting." These clauses were stricken out, in spite of strenuous
opposition, upon the view that Wide latitude ought to be given
to the Congress, and the denial of any attempt to impede the
growth of the western country. Madison Papers, 5 Elliot, 381,
492, 493; 3 Gilpin, 1456.
And paragraph two was added, that "the Congress shall
have power to dispose of and miake all needful rules and regulations respecting the territory or other property belonging to
the United States ; and nothing in this Constitution shall be
so construed as to prejudice any claims of the United States,
or of any particular State."

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

By article thrce of the treaty of Paris of 1803, (8 Stat. 200,
202,) it was provided that "the inhabitants of the ceded territory shall be incorporated in the Union of the United States,
and admitted as soon as possible, according to the principles of
the Federal Constitution, to the enjoyment of all the rights,
advantages and immunities -of citizens of the United States;
and in the meantime they shall be maintained and protected
in the free enjoyment of their liberty, property and the religion
which they profess."
It was said by Mr. Justice Citron, in his separate opinion in
Dred Scott v. Sandford, 19 How. 393, 525: "The settled doctrine in the state courts of 'Louisiana is, that a French subject
coming to the Orleans territory, after the treaty of 1803 was
made, and before Louisiana was admitted into the Union, and
being an inhabitant at the time of the admission, became a citizen of the United States by that act; that he was'one of the
inhabitants contemplated by the third article of the treaty,
which referred to all the inhabitants embraced within the new
State on its admission. That this is the true construction I
have no doubt." *
In Desbois's Case, 2 Martin, 185, (decided in 1812,) one Desbois, of French birth, .applied for a license to practise as a
counsellor and attorney at law in the Superior Courts of Louisiana, and by one of the rules of the court the applicant could
not be admitted unless he was a citizen of the United States.
Desbois conceded that he had no claim to citizenship by birth
nor by naturalization under the acts of Congress to establish
an uniform rule on that -subject, but he contended that there
was a third mode of acquiring citizenship of the United States,
namely, the admission into the Union of a State of which he
was a citizen. HLe contended that as he had, in the year 1806,
removed to and settled with his family in the city of New
Orleans in the territory of Orleans, in contemplation of the
enjoyment of all the advantages which the laws of the territory
and of the United States held out to foreigners removing into
that territory, and had ever since considered it as his adopted
country, he had become a citizen under the act of Congress 6f
March 2, 1805, further providing for the territorial government

BOYD v. TH1AYER.
Opinion of the! Court.

of Orleans, the enabling act of February 20, 1811, and that
of April 8, 1812, admitting the State.
Judge Martin, who delivered the opinion of the court,
referred among other things to the fact that the act of Congress authorizing the formation of the state government of
Louisiana was almost literally copied from that which authorized that of Ohio, and, pointing out that by the first section
of the latter statute the inhabitants of the designated territory
were authorized to form for themselves a state constitution,
while bi, the fourth section the persons entitled to vote for
members of -the convention were described as, first, all male
citizens of the United States, and next, all other persons having in all other respects the legal qualifications to vote for
members of the general assembly of the territory, which 'were
a freehold of fifty acres of land in the district and citizenship
of one of the States and residence in the dist'ict, or the like
freehold and two years' residence in the-district, said "The
word inhabitants, in the first section of this act, must be taken
lato .qens ; 'it cannot be restrained so as to include citizens of
the United States only; for other persons are afterwards called
upon to vote. There is not any treaty, or other instrument,
which may be said to control it. Every attempt to restrict it
must proceed on principles absolutely arbitrary. If the word
is to be taken lato sensm in the act passed in favor of the people of one Territory, is there any reason to say that we are to
restrain it, in another act, passed for similar urposes, in favor
of the people of another Territory?" pp. 192, 193.
And after an able discussion of the subject, he concluded
that the applicant must be considered a citizen of the State ,of
Louisiana, and entitled to all the rights and privileges of a
citizen of the.United States.
In 1813, in United States v. Zaverly, 3 Martin, 733, Judgo
Hall of the District Court of the United States held, that the
inhabitants of the territory of Orleans-became citizens of Louisiana and of the United States by the admission of Louisiana
into the Union; denied that the only constitutional mode of
becoming a citizen of the :United States is naturalization by
compliance with the uniform rule established by Congress;

166

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court

and fully agreed with the decision in Desbois's case, which he
cited.
By the ordinance for the government of the Northwest Territory, of July 13, 1787, it was provided that as soon as there
should be 5000 free male inhabitants of full age in the district
thereby constituted, they were to receive authority to elect representatives to a general assembly, and the qualifications of a
representative in such cases were previous citizenship of one of
the United States for three years and residence in the. district,
or a residence of three years in the district and a fee simple estate pf 200 acres of land therein. The qualifications of electors
were a freehold in fifty acres of land in the district, previous
citizenship of one of the United States, and residence, or the
like freehold, and two years' residence in the district. And it
was also provided that there should be formed in the territory
.not less 'than. three nor more than five States, with certain
boundaries, and that whenever any such State should contain
60,000 free inhabitants, such State should be admitted by its
delegates in Congress on an equal footing with the original
States in all respects whatever, and should be at liberty to form
a permanent constitution and state government, provided it
should be republican and in conformity with the articles of
compact. 1 Stat. 51a; Rev. Stat. 2d. ed. Organic Laws, 13, 14.
Reference to the various acts of Congress creating the Indiana and Illinois territories, 2 Stat. 58, c. 41; 2 Stat. 514, c. 13;
the enabling acts under which the state governments of Ohio,
Indiana and Illinois were formed, 2 Stat. 173, c. 40; 3 Stat.
289, c. 57; 2 Stat. 428, c. 67; and the act recognizing, and
resolutions admitting, those States, 2 Stat. 201, c. 7; 3 Stat.
399; 3 Stat. 536; and to their original constitutions; establishes th~at the inhabitants or people who were empowered to
take part in the creation of these new political organisms, and
,who continued to participate in the discharge of political functions, included others than those who were originally citizens
of the United States. And that the action of Congress was
advisedly taken is put beyond doubt by the language used in
the legislation in question.
In the case of the admission of Michigan this was strikingly.

BOYD v. THAYER.

167-

Opinion of the Court.

shown. By the act of Congress of January 11, 1805, 2 Stat.
309, c, 5, a part of the Indiana Territory -was constituted the
Territory of Michigan, and a government in all respects similar
to that provid6d by the ordinance of 1787 was established..
The act of February 16, 1819, 3 Stat. 482, c. 22, authorized
that Territory to send a delegate to Congress, and conferred
the right of suffrage on the free white male citizens of the
Territory who had resided therein one year next preceding the
election and had paid county, or territorial taxes,, The act of
March 3, 1823, 3 Stat. 769, c. 36, provided that all citizens of
the United States having the qualifications prescribed by the
act of February 16, 1819, should be entitled to vote and be
eligible to office. By an act of the territorial legislature of
January 26, 1835, the free white male inhabitants of the Territory of full age, who had resided therein three months preceding "the fourth day of April next in the year one thousand
eight hundred and thirty-five," were authorized to choose delegates to form a constitution and state government.
Mich.
Laws, 1835, pp. 72, 75. Delegates were elected accordingly,
and a constitution completed June 29, 1835, and ratified by a
vote of the people November 2, 1835, which provided that
every white -male citizen above the age of twenty-one years,
who had resided in the State six months next preceding any
election, should be entitled to vote at any election, "and every
white male inhabitant of the age aforesaid, who may be a resident of the State at the time of the signing of this constitution, shall have the right of voting as aforesaid." 1 Charters
and Constitutions, 983, 984. This constitution was laid before
Congress by President Jackson in a special message, *December
9, 1835, and a bill was introduced for the admission of Michigan into the Union. While this was under consideration an
amendment to the provision that on the assent being given by
a convention of the people of Michigan to certain boundaries
defined in the bill, the State should be admitted, to strike out
*he words "people of the said State" and insert "by the free
male white citizens of the United States over the age of twentyone years, residing within the limits of the proposed State,"
was voted down; as was also another amendment proposing

168.

OCTOBEIR TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

to insert after that part of the bill which declared the. constitution of the new State ratified and confirmed by Congress,
the words "except that provision of said constitution by which
aliens are permitted to enjoy the right of suffrage.". The act
was passed June 15, 1836, and the conditions imposed having
been 'first rejected and then finally accepted, the State was
admitted into the Uniori by the act of January 26, 1837.
In all these instances citizenship of the United States in virtue of the recognition by Congress of the qualified electors of
the State as citizens thereof, was apparently conceded, 'nd it'
was the effect in that regard that furnished a chief argument
to those who opposed the admission of Michigan. It may be
added as to that State that the state constitution of 1850, as
amended in 1870, preserved the rights as an elector of "every
male inhabitant, residing in the State on the 241th day of June,
1835." And in Attorney Generalv. Det'oit,78 Michigan, 545,
53, the Supreme Court of Michigan assigned as one of the
reasons for holding the registry law under consideration invalid, that no provision was therein made for this class of
,voters, nor for the inhabitants who had resided in -Michigan
in 1850 and declared their intention to become citizens of the
United States, who had the right to vote under the constitution of 1850. The sixth article of the treaty of 1819 with Spain, 8 Stat.
256, contained a provision to the same effect as that in the
treaty of Paris, and Mr. Chief Justice Marshall said (Amer.
Ins. Co. v. Canter, 1 Pet. 511, 542): "This treaty is the law
of the land, and admits the inhabitants of Florida to the enjoyment of the privileges, rights, and immunities of the citizens of
the United States. It is unnecessary to inquire whether this
is not, their condition, independent of stipulation. They do
not, however, participate in political power; they do not share
in the government, till Florida shall become a State. In the
meantime, Florida' continues to be a Territory of the United
States; governed by virtue of that clause in the Constitution,
which empowers Congress 'to make all needful rules and regulations, respecting the Territory, or other property belonging
to the United States2 "

BOYD v. THAYER.
Opinion of the Court.

At the second session of the Twenty-seventh Congress, in
the case of David Levy, who had been elected . delegate from
the Territory of Florida, where it was alleged that he was not
a citizen of the United States, it was held by the House, Committee on Elections that "it matters nothing whether the naturalization be effected by act of Congress, by treaty or by the
admission of new States, the provision is alike applicable."
The qluestion turned on whether Mr. Levy's father was an
inhabitant of Florida at the time of its transfer to the United
States, as the son admitted that he was not a native-born citizen of the United States, but claimed citizenship through that
of his father effected by the treaty while he was a minor. The
argument of the report in support of the position that "no
principle has been- more repeatedly announced by the judicial
tribunals of the country, and more constantly acted upon, than
that the leaning, in questions of citizenship, should always be
in favor of the claimant of it," and that liberality of interpretation should be applied to such a treaty, is well worthy of
perusal. Contested Elections, 1834, 1835; 2d Session, 38th
Congress, 41.
By the eighth article of the treaty with Mexico of 1848,
those Mexicans who remained in the territory ceded, and who
did n6t declare within one year their intention to remain Mexican citizens, were to be deemed citizens of the United States.
9 Stat. 930.
By the annexation of Texas, under a joint resolution of
Congress of March'l, 1845, and its admission into the Union
on an equal fooring with the original States, December 29,
1845, all the citizens of the former republic became, without
any express declaration, citizens of the United-States. 5 Stat.
798 ; 9 Stat. 108 ; kokidnney v. Saviego, 18 How. 235 ; COryer
v. Andrews, 11 Texas, 170; Barrett v. YKelly, 31 Texas, 476;
Carter v. 'Territory,1 N. Mex. 317.
It is too late at this day to question the plenary power of
Congress over the Territories. As observed by Mr. Justice
Matthews, delivering the opinion of the court, in .urphy v.
Ramsey, 114 U. S. 15, 44: "It rests with Congress t6 say
whether, in a given case, any of the people, resident in the.

OCTOBER TERPM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

Territory, shall participate in the election of its officers, or
the making of its laws; and it may, therefore, take from them
any right of suffrage it may previously have conferred, or at
any time modify or abridge it as it may deem expedient. The
right of local self-government, as known to our system as a
constitutional franchise, belongs, under the Constitution, to the
States and to the people thereof, by whom that Constitution
was ordained, and to whom by its terms all power not conferred by it upon the government of the -United States was
exprdssly reserved. The personal and civil rights of the inhabitants of the Territories are secured to them; as to other
citizens, by the principles of constitutional liberty which restrain all the agencies of government, state and'national;
their politica" rights are franchises which they hold as privileges in the legislative discretion of the Congress of the United
If we concede that this discretion in ConStates.
gresn is limited by the obvious purposes for which it was conferred, and that those purposes are satisfied by measures
which prepare the people of the Territories to become States
in the Union, still the conclusion cannot be avoided, that.tbe
act of Congress here in question is clearly within -that. justification."
Congress having the power to deal witlh the people of the
Territories in view of the future States to be formed .from
them, there can be no doubt that in the admission of a State
a collective naturalization may be effected in accordance with
the intention of Congress and the people applying for admission.
Admission on an equal footing with the original States, in
all respects whatever, involves equality of constitutional right
*and power, which cannot thereafterwards be controlled, and
it also involves the adoption as citizens of the United States
of those whom Congress makes members of the political community, and who are recognized as such in the formation of
the new State with the consent of Congress.
The organic law under which the Territory of 'Nebraska
was organized, approved May 30, 1854, 10 Stat. 277, c. 59,
provided.in its fourth section for a legislative assembly, con-

BOYD v. THAYER.
Opinion of the Court.

sisting of a council and a house of representatives, and that
the members of the assembly should have the' qualification of
voters as thereinafter prescribed. Its fifth section was as follows:
"SEC. 5. And be it further enacted, That every free white
male inhabitant above the age of twenty-one years who shall
be an actual resident of said Territory, and shall possess the
qualifications hereinafter prescribed, shall be entitled to vote
at the first election, and shall be eligible to any office within
the said Territory; but the qualifications of voters, and of holding office, at all subsequent elections, shall be such as shall be
prescribed by the legislative assembly; Provided, that the
right of suffrage and of holding office shall be exercised only
by citizens of the United States and those who shall have declared on oath their intention to become such, and shall have
taken an oath to support the Constitution of the United States
and the provisions of this act: And, providedfurther, That no
officer, soldier, seaman, or marine, or other person in the army
or navy of the United States, or attached to troops in the service of the United States, shall be allowed to vote or hold
office in said Territory, by reason of being on service therein."
Sections 10, 11 and 12 of chapter 9 of a general code for
that Territory entitled "Elections," approved January 26,
1856, read thus:
"SEC. 10. Every free white male citizen of the United

States, who has attained the age of twenty-one years, and those
who shall have dleclared on oath their intention to become
such, and shall have taken an oath to support the Constitution
of the United States, and the provisions of the organic law of
this Territorvy, shall be entitled to vote in the precinct where
he resides, at all elections. _Provided, he has been an inhabitant of this Territory forty days and of the county twenty
days next preceding the election.
I " SEC. 11. Any member of the board of electors, or persons
who have voted at such lection, may challenge any elector
proposing to vote, whereupon one of the said board shall tender to such elector the following oath: I, A-B, solemnly swear
that I Am a citizen of the United States, or that I have taken

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

an oath to become such (as the case.may be); that I have
- for the last twenty
been an inhabitant of the county of
forty days, and have
last
the
for
Territory
this
days, and in
attained the age of twenty-one years to the best of my knowledge and belief.
"Upon taking such oath his ballot shall be received.
"SEo. 12. Any person taking any of the oaths herein contained, knowing them to be false, shall be deened guilty of
perjury." Sess.-Laws Neb. 1855-56, pp. 50, 51.
By section 4 of chapter 27, entitled " Officers," Sess. Laws
Neb. 1855-56, p. 79, it was enacted: 1" Neither shall any person be entitled to hold any office of trust or profit in this Territory unless he be a free white male citizen of the United
States, and over the age of twenty-one years."
If, by this provision it was intended by the territorial legislature to deprive those who had declared their intention of
becoming citizens of the right to hold office, we do not regard
the attempt to do so as substantially affecting the argument.
By an act respecting elections, approved January 10, 1862,
Sess. Laws Neb. 1861-62, p. 92, it was provided that every free
white male citizen of the United States, and those who bad in
accordance with the laws of the United States filed their declaration of intention, to become such, and who had attained
the age of twenty-one years, should be entitled to vote at any
ele6tion in this Territory. Punishment was prescribed forpersons who should vote when not citizens of the United
States, or when thev had not declared their intention to become such; and provision .was made for challenges on .the
ground that the person had not made the declaration, provided
that no such declaration of intention need be-produced where
the person stated that by reason of the naturalization of his
parents, or one of them, he bad become a citizen of the Unite&
States, and when or where his parent or parents were naturalized. Similar provisions were contained in an act passed in
1864. Sess. Laws. Neb. 1864, p. 108.
(n April 19, 1864, Congress passed an act "to enable the
people of Nebraska to form a constitution and state government, and for the admission of such State into the Union on

BOYD v. THAYER.
Opinion of the Court.

an equal footing with the original States." 13' Stat. 47, c. 59.
The first section was: "That the inhabitants of that portion
of the Territory of Nebraska included in the boundaries hereinafter designated, be, and they are hereby, authorized to form
for themselves a constitution and state government, with, the
name aforesaid, which State, when so formed, shall be adinitted into the Union as hereinafter provided." The third
section read: "That all persons qualified by law to vote for
representatives to the general assembly of said Territory shall
be qualified to be elected; and theyare hereby authorized to
vote for and choose representatives to form a convention,
under such rules and regulations as the governor of said Territory may prescribe, and also to vote upon the acceptance or
rejection of such constitution as may be formed by said convention, under such rules and regulations as said convention may
prescribe; and if any of said citizens are enlisted in the army
of the United States, and are still within said Territory, they
shall be permitted to vote at their place of rendezvous;
and the governor of said Territory shall, by proclamation, on
or before the first Monday of May next, order an election of
the representatives aforesaid to be held on the first Monday
in June thereafter throughout the Territory ;"and such election shall be conducted in the 'same manner as is prescribed
by the laws of said' Territory regulating, elections therein for
members of the house of representatives; and the number of
members to said co.nvention shall be the same as now constitute both branches of the legislature of the aforesaid Territory."
Seqtion five provided for the submission or the constitution
to the qualified voters of the Territory as thereinbefore designated; and that if a majority of the legal votes wer cast
for the constitution, the result should be certified to the President, whereupon it should be his duty "to issue his proclamation declaring the State admitted into the Union on an equal
footing with the original States, without any further action
whatever on the part of Congress."
No action was taken by the convention which was elected
under this law, but a constitution was subsequently framed by
-

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

the territorial legislature, which completed it February 9,
1866. It was submitted to the people at an election held
June 21, 1866, and ratified by a vote of 3938 against,3838.
On the 9th of February, 1867, 14 Stat. 391, an act for the
admission of Nebraska into the Union became a law, which
recited that whereas, on the 19th of April, 1864, Congress
passed an act to enable the people of Nebraska to form a constitudion and state government, and offered to admit said
State when so formed into the Union upon compliance with
certain conditions therein specified; and whereas it'appears
that said people have adopted a constitution which, upon due
examination, is found to conform to the provisions and comply with the conditions of said act, and that they now ask
for admission into the Union, therefore, be it enacted, etc.,
"that the constitution and state government which the people of Nebraska have formed for themselves be, and the same is
hereby, accepted, ratified and confirmed; and that the said
State of Nebraska shall be, and is hereby declared to be, one
of the United States of America, and is hereby admitted into
the Union upon an equal -footing with the original States in
all respects whatsoever." By the second section it was declared that the new State was entitled to all the rights, privi-leges, grants and immunities and was subject to all the conditions and restrictions of the enabling act. By the third section
the fundamental condition was imposed upon the taking effect
of the act, that there should be within the State of Nebraska
no denial of the elective franchise, or of any other right, to
any person, by reason of race or color, excepting Indians
not taxed, and the further fundamental condition. that the
legislature of the State should declare the assent of the State
to such conditions, proof of which being transmitted to the
President, he by proclamation should announce'the fact, and
the admission of the State should be accomplished. This
third section was accepted and ratified by the legislature of
Nebraska on the 20th of February following and declared to
be part of the organic law of the State; whereupon, on March
1, 1867, 14Stat. 820, the-President issued his proclamation that
" whereas the Congress of the United States did, by an act,

BOYD v. THAYER.
Opinion of the Court.

approved on the nineteenth day of April, one thousand eight
hundred and sixty-four authorize the people of the Territory
of Nebraska to form a constitution and state government, and
for the admission of such State into the Union on an equal
footing with the original States, upon certain conditions in
said act specified; and whereas said people did adopt a constitution conforming to4he provisions and conditions of said
act, and ask admission into the Union;" etc., therefore the
admission of the State into the Union was complete.
This constitution provided, Art. If, ยงยง 1, 2, (2 Charters and
Constitutions, 1205, that the electors should be white citizens of
the United States and white persons of foreign birth who had
declared their intention to become such, and it was therefore
that Congress imposed the condition referred to, which operated to prevent discrimination by reason of color, and may'have
had a broader effect, which it is not now necessary to consider.
The fourteenth section of the first article, (2 Charters and
Constitutions, 1204,) read as follows: "No distinction shall
ever be made by law between resident aliens and citizens in
reference to the possession, enjoyment or descent of property,"
and this, it seems to us, taken in connection with the other
provisions, was a clear recognition of tie distinction between
those who had and those who had not elected to becomealiens.
It follows from these documents that Congress regarded as
citizens of the Territory all who were already citizens of the
United States, and all who had declared their intention to become such. Indeed, they are referred to in section three of
the enabling act as citizens, and by the organic law the right
of suffrage and of holding office had been allowed to them.
Those whose naturalization was incomplete were treated as in
the same category as those wh. were already citizens of the
United States. What the-StatZ had power to do after its aamission is not the question. Before Congress let go its hold
upon the Territory, it was for Congress to say who were members of the political community. So far as the or-iginal States
were concerned, all those who were citizens of such States became upon the formation of the Union citizens of the United

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

States, and upon the admission of Nebraska into the Union
'upon an equal footing with the original States, in all respects
whatsoever," the citizens of what had been the Territory became
citizens of the United States and of the State.
As remarked by Mr. Chief Justice Waite in .Minor v. ffippersett, 21 Wall. 162, 167: "Whoever, then, was one of the
people of either of these States when the Constitution of the
United States was adopted, became ipso facto a citizen - a
member of th nation created by its adoption. He was one
of the persons associating together to form tle nation, and
was, consequently, one of its original citizens. As to this
there has, never been a doubt. Disputes have arisen as to
.whether or not certain persons or certain classes
of persons
as
to their
never
time,
but
at
the
were part'of the people
citizenship if they were."'
But it is argued that James E. Boyd had never declared his
intention' to become a citizen of the United States, although
his father had, and that because, as alleged, his father had
not completed his naturalization before the son attained his
majority' the latter cannot be held to come within the purview
of the acts of Congress relating to the Territory and the admission of the State, so as to be entitled to claim to have been
made a citizen thereby.
The act of'March 26, 1790, 1 Stat. 103, c. 3, provided for the
naturalizition of aliens and then that "the children of such
persons so naturalized, dwelling within the United States,
being under the age of twenty-one years at the time of such
naturalization, shall also be considered as citizens of the United
States."
The third section -f the act of January 29, 1795, 1 Stat. 414,
4:15, c. 20, provided "that the children of persons duly naturalized, dwelling within the -United States, and being under the
age of twenty-one years, at the time of such naturalization,.
and the children of citizens of the United States, born out of
the limits and jurisdiction of the United States, shall be considered'as-citizens of the United States," etc.
- The fourth etion of the act of April 14, 1802, 2 Stat. 153,
155, c. 28, carfied -into the Revised Statutes as section 2172,

BOYD v. THAYER.
Opinion of the Couft.

was: "That the children of persons duly naturalized under
any of the laws of the United States, or who, previous to the
passing of any law on that subject, by the government of
the United States, may have become citizens of.any one of the
said States, under the laws thereof, being under the age of
twenty-one years, at the time of their parents being so naturalized or admitted to the rights of citizenship, shall, if dwelling in the United States, be considered as citizens of the United
States." In Campbell v. Gordon, 6 Cranch, 176, it was held
that this section conferred the rights of citizenship upon the
minor child of a parent who had been duly naturalized under
the act of 1795, although the child did not become a resident
of the United States until she came here after that, but before
the act of 1802 was passed.
The rule was to be a uniform rule, and we perceive no reason
for limiting such a rule to the children of those who had been
already naturalized. In our judgment the intention was that
the act of 1802 should have a prospective operation. United
States v. Kellar, 13 Fed. Rep. 82; West v. West, 8 Paige, 433;
State v. A ndeiano, 92 Missouri, 70 ; State v. Pen-tey, 10 Arkansas, 621; O'Connor v. T]ke State, 9 Florida, 215.
By the second section of the act of March 26, 1804, 2 Stat.
292, c. 47, p. 293, if any alien who had complied with the
terms of the act should die without having completed his
naturalization, his widow and children should be considered
citizens upon taking the oaths prescribed by law.; and this
was carried forward into section 2168 of the Revised Statutes.
By the first section of the act of Aay 26, 1824, 4 Stat. 69,
c. 186, carried forward into section 2167 of the Revised Statutes, any alien, being a minor, who shall have resided in the
United States three years next preceding his arrival at majority and continued to reside therein, may, upon reaching the age
of twenty-one years, and after a residence of five years, including the three years of minority, be admitted -a citizen of the
United States without having made during minority the declaration of intention required in the case of aliens.
The statutory provisions leave much to be desired, and the
attention of Congress has been called to the condition of the
VOL. cxLm-12

OCTOBER TERAT, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

laws in reference to election of nationality; and to the desirability of a clear definition of the status of minor children of
fathers who had declared their intention to become citizens,
but had failed to perfect' their naturalization; and of the
status gained by tlhose of full age by the declaration of intention. 2 Whart. Int. Dig. 340, 341, 350.

Clearly minors acquire an inchoate status by the declaration
of intention on the part of their parents. If they attain their
majority before the parent completes his naturalization, then
they have an election to repudiate the status which they find
impressed upon them, and determine that they will accept allegiance to sbme foreign potentate or power rather than hold
fast to the citizenship which the act of the parent has initiated
for them. Ordinarily this election is determined by.applica.
tion on their own behalf, but it does not follow that an actual
equivalent may not be accepted in lieu of a technical 6ompli.
ance.
James E. Boyd was born in Ireland of Irish parents in 1834,
and brought to this country in 1844 by his father, Joseph
Boyd, who settled at Zanesville, Muskingum County, Ohio,
and on March 5, 1849, declared his intention to become a citizen of the United States. In 1855 James E. Boyd, who bad
grown up in the full beliet of his father's citizenship and had
been assured by him that he had completed his naturalization
by taking out his second papers in 1854, voted in Ohio as a
cititen. In August, 1856,.he removed to the Territory of Ne.braska. In 1867 he-was elected and served as county clerk of
Douglas County; -in1864 he was sworn into the military'
service and served as a soldier of the .Federal government to
defend the frontier from an attack of Indians; in 1866 he was
elected a member of the Nebraska legislature and served one
session; in 1871 he was elected a member of the convention to
frame a state cdnstitution and served as such; in 1875 he was
again elected and served as a member of the convention which
framed the present state constitution; in 1880 he was elected
and acted as president of the city council of Omaha; and in
1881 and 1885, respectively, was elected mayor of that city,
serving in all four years. From 1856 until the State was ad-

BOYD u THAYER.
Opinion of the Court.

mitted, and from thence to this election, he had voted at every
election, territorial, state, municipal and national. He had
taken, prior to the admission of the State, the oath required
by law in entering upon the duties of the offices he had filled,
and sworn to support the Consitution of the United States
and the provisions of the organic act under which the Territory
of Nebraska was created. For over thirty years prior to his
election as governor he had enjoysd all the rights, privileges
and immunities of a citizen of the United States and of the
Territory and State, as being in law, as he was in fact, such
citizen.
When he removed to Nebraska, that Territory was to a large
extent a wilderness, and he spent years of extrenie hardship
upon the frontier, one of the pioneers of the new settlement
and one of theinhabitants who subsequently formed a government for themselves. The policy which sought the development of the country by inviting to participation in all the
rights, privileges and immunities of citizenship, those who
would engage in the labors and endure the trials of frontier
life, which has so vastly contributed to the unexampled progress of the nation, justifies the application bf a liberal rather
than a technical rule in the solution of the question before us.
We are of opinion that James E. Boyd is entitled to claim
that if his father did not complete his naturalization before his
son had attained majority, the'son cannot be held to have lost
the inchoate status he had acquired by the declaration of intention, and to have elected to become the subject of a foreign
power, but, on the contrary, that the oaths he took and his
action as a citizen entitled him to insist upon the benefit of his
father's act, and placed him in the same category as hig father
'would have occupied if he had emigrated to the Territory of
Nebraska; that, in short, he was within the intent and meaning, effect and operation of the acts of Congress in relation to
citizens of the Territory, and was made a citizen of the United
States and of the State of Nebraska under the organic and
enabling acts and the act of admission.
(2) Another and shorter course of reasoning leads to the
same conclusion.

180

OCTOBER TERMI, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

The respondent, in his answer, after stating that his father,
on March 5, 184:9, when the responident was about fourteen
-years of age, made before a court of the State of Ohio his declaration ofintention to become a citizen of the United States;
and averring ' that his father for forty-two years last past has
enjoyed and exercised all of the rights, immunities and privileges and discharged all the duties of a citizen of the United
States and of the State of Ohio, and was in all respects and to
all intents and purposes a citizen of the United States and
of the State of Ohio;" and particularly alleging his qualificationg to be a citizen, and his acting as such, for forty
years, voting and holding office in that State; further distinctly alleges "on information and belief, that prior to October, 1854, his father did in fact complete his naturalization in
strict accordance with the acts of Congress known as the naturalization laws so as to admit and constitute him a full citizen
of the United States thereunder, he having exercised the rights
of citizenship herein described, and at said time informed
respondent that such was the fact."
As the allegation last quoted sets up a right and privilege
claimed under the laws of the United States, this court must
determine for itself the question of the sufficiency of this allegation, and is not concluded by the view taken of that question by the Supreme Court of Nebraska. In the words of
Mr. Justice Miller, speaking for this court: ,"The question
whether a plea sets up a sufficient defence, when the defence
relied on arises under an act of Congress, does present, and
that necegsarily, a question of Federal law; for the questiof
is.and must be, does the plea state facis which under the act
of Congress constitute a good defence?" lfitchell v. Clark,
110 U. S. 633, 645.
It is true that naturalization under-the acts of Congress
known as the naturalization laws can. only be completed before
a court, and' that the usual proof of naturalization is a copy of
the record of the court. But it is equally true that where no
record of naturalization can be produced, evidence that a person, having the requisite qualifications to become a citizen, did
in fact and for a long time vote and hold office and exercise

BOYD v. THAYER.
Opinion of the Court.

rights belonging to citizens, is sufficient to warrant a jury

in inferring that he had been duly naturalized as a citizen.
Blight v. .Rochester,7 Wheat. 535, 546; HUogam v. Kurtz, 94
U. S. 773, 778.

And by the constitution of Ohio of 1851, none

but white male citizens of the United States were entitled to
vote, or to hold office. Art. 5, sec. 1; art. 15, sec. 4; Charters
and Constitutions, 1472, 1478.
Such being the settled law, we can have no doubt that the
fact that the respondent's father became a naturilized citizen
of the United States before October, 1854, is well pleaded in
the allegation in question, and is therefore admitted by the
demurrer. The allegation "that prior to October, 1854, his
father did in fact complete his naturalization in strict accordance with the acts of Congress known as the naturalization
laws so as to admit and constitute him a full citizen of the
United States thereunder," necessarily implies that he had
been duly naturalized before a court as required by those laws.
Specific allegations of the time and place at which, and of the
court before which, he was so naturalized, or setting forth a
record of his naturalization, would have been superfluous, and,
in view of the respondent's imperfect information, as manifest
upon the face of the allegation, of a transaction taking place
so long ago, hardly possible.
Under this allegation, and the earlier allegations leading up
to it, if traversed, a jury would have been warranted in inferring that the respondent's father became a citizen of the United
States before October, 1854, and consequently that the respondent himself was likewise a citizen.
For this reason, without regard to any other question argued
in the case, the respondent was entitled to judgment upon the
demurrer.
M . JusvTic HARLAN, Mr. JusTioE GRAY and MR. JusTicn
Bnow-x concur in the conclusion of the court upon the latter
course of reasoning only.
All the justices, except MR. JUSTInE FIELD, unite in holding
that this court has jurisdiction of the case, and that upon this
record James E. Boyd had been for twvo years, -pext preceding

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

his election to the office of governor, a citizen of the United
States and of the State of Nebraska.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Nebraska is reversed,
and the cause remanded to beproceeded in according to
law and in eonformity with this 'pinion.
MR. JUsTICE FIRT

dissenting.

I dissent from the judgment just rendered. 'I do not think
that this court has any jurisdiction to determine a disputed
question as to the right to the governorship of a State, however
that question may be decided by its authorities. I agree that
the States of the American Union are not in all respects independent political communities; I agree that they do not possess that supreme political authority which would entitle them
to be called sovereign States' in the full sense of those terms,
as they are often designated. They are qualified sovereignties,
possessing only the powers of an independent political organization which are not ceded to the general government or prohibited to them by the Constitution. But, except as such
powers are ceded to the general government or prohibited to
them, the States are independent political communities. This
is not a matter of argument or inference, but is the express
declaration of the Tenth Amendment. As forcibly stated by
Mr. Justice. Nelson, speaking for this court, "the general government, and the States, although both exist within the same
territorial limits, are separate and distinct sovereignties, acting
separately and independently of each other, within their respective spheres. The former in its appropriate sphere is supreme;
but the States.within the limits of their powers not granted,
or; -in the language of the Tenth Amendment, .reserved,' are
as independent of the general government as that government
ytithin its sphere is independent of the States." The Collector
Day,11 Wall. 113, 124. In no respect is this independence
o1 the States more marked, or more essential to their peace and
tiranuillity, than in their Absolute power to prescribe the qualifications of all their state officers, from their chief magistrate
to the lowest official employed in.
the administration of their

BOYD v. THAYER.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

local government; to determine the manner of their election,
whether by open or secret ballot, and whether by local bodies
or by general suffrage; the tenure by which they shall hold
their respective offices; the grounds on which their election
may be contested, the tribunals before which such contest shall
be made, the manner in which it shall be conducted; and the
effect to. be given to the decision rendered. With none of these
things can the government of the United States interfere. In
all these particulars the States, to use the language of Mr.
Justice Nelson, are as independent of the general government
as that government within its sphere is independent of the
States. Its power of interference with the administration of
the affairs of the State and the officers through whom they are
conducted extends only so far as may be necessary to secure to
it a republican form of government, and protect it against invasion, and also against domestic. violence -on the application
of its legislature, or of its executive when that body cannot be
convened. Const. Art. IV, sec. 4. Except as required for
these purposes, it can no more interfere with the qualifications,
election and installation of the state officers, than a foreign
government. And all attempts at interference with them in
those respects by the executive, legislative or judicial departments of the general government are in my judgment so many
invasions upon the reserved rights of the States and assaults
upon their constitutional autonomy.
No clause of the Constitution can be named which in any
respect gives countenance to such invasion. The fact that one
of the qualifications prescribed by the State for its officers can
only be ascertained and established by considering the provisions of a law of the United States in no respect authorizes an
interference by the general government with the state action.
Because an officer of a State must be a citizen of the United
States it does not follow that the tribunals of the United States
can alone determine that fact, and that the decision of the
State in respect to it can be supervised and controlled by the
Federal authorities. Nor is there any decision of this court
that sanctions any such interference. There is a mere dictum
in 3Iissou'i v. Andriano, 138 U. S. 496, 499, but no decision
to that effect.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

That case involved a contest between the parties for the
office of sheriff of a county in Missouri. - Among other things
the constitution of that State declared that no person should
be elected to any office in the State who was not a citizen of
the United States. The relator claimed to have been in possession of the office since 1884: and entitled to continue until
his successor was elected, commissioned and qualified; and
;hat the respondent was not entitled to the office because he
was not a citizen under the Constitution of the United States,
having been born in Germany, and not having 'been naturalized. To this the respondent replied, admitting his foreign
birth, and that he had never been naturalized under the laws
of the United States, but claiming that under the act of Congress of 1802 he became and was a citizen by the naturalization
of his father, that act providing that the children of citizens of
the United States- should, though born out of their limits and
jurisdiction, be considered as citizens.
Under that act the Supreme Court of Missouri held that the
respondent was a citizen of the United States. The case coming to this court, it was decided that when a decision of a state
court was in favor of a right or privilege claimed under'a statute of the United States, this court had no jurisdiction to review it, and the writ of error was accordingly dismissed. In
the opinion delivered by the justice of this court it was said
that had the judgment of the Supreme Court of Missouri been
adverse to the claim of the respondent there could be no doubt
of his right to a writ of error from this court to review its
.uling- a question which was ,not in judgment, and what,
therefore, was said re.recting' it was a mere dictum,. without
authoritative force.
The office of sheriff was no.t a right or privilege claimed
under a law of the United States, but was a right or privilege
claimed by the election under the laws of Missouri. The mere
fact that it was necessary that the incumbent of the office
should also be a citizen of the United States did not of itself
give him a right to that office. It would, indeed, be a strange
ruling to declare that an office which required the votes' of the
people of a State or of one of its districts was a right or privi-

BOYD v. THAYER.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, 3.

-

lege under a law of the United States, because one of the qualifications of the incumbent was that he should be a citizen of
the United States. The necessity of referring to a law of the
United States to ascertain what conrtuted citizenship did
not make the respondent's right to the office dependent upon
that fact in any such sense as to bring it within the cognizance
of the Federal courts. Equally might it be said that a contestea
claim to a seat in the legislature of a State could be brought
under their cognizance when the ground of contest happened
to be the disputed citizenship of one of the contestants. It is
true the answer to the attempted exercise of jurisdiction by the
courts in the latter case would be, that it is the settled law of
legislative bodies, and hitherto recognized in all our State constitutions, that each house shall be the exclusive judge of the
election and qualification of its members. But no less settled,
and hitherto universally recognized in this bountry, is the law
which vests exclusive jurisdiction in each State over the election, qualification and installation of its chief executive. There
-seems to me to be the same inappropriateness and want of
authority in proceeding in the Federal courts for the office in
the one case as in the other.
My objection to the decision is not diminished by the fact
that there is no power in this courtto enforce its decision upon
the State of Nebraska should resistance be made to it. Should
the incumbent decla'red by this court not to be entitled to the
office, refuse to surrender it and the state authorities should
stand by"him in such refusal, what could be done about it?
He might well say, "I have been declared by the duly constituted authorities of the State, who alone have the right to inquire into the matter, to be entitled to the office, and I deny
the authority of the general.government, or any department
of it, to interfere with my possession of the office." How
could this court in such case enforce its order? The presence
of the marshal with a posse to ittempt it would be a painful exhibition of weakness. Would the court call upon the
general government to send an army into the State to force
upon it a governor who has been declared by its duly constituted authorities not to be entitled to the office and to

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

oust the one wbo has been declared by them to be entitled
to it?
I doubt whether any such proceeding would be successfully
carried out or that the attempt to do it would be sustained by
the Executive or by Congress or by the people anywhere. I
can see only mischief and trouble to follow from the assertion
of any such power over the authorities of a State as is claimed
in this case. If the right of this court to interfere in this case
can be sustained every candidate for office alleging that the
successful party has not some qualification prescribed by statute, which can only be defined by reference to a Federal law,
will claim a right to invoke the interference of the Federal
judiciary to determine whether he ought or not to have been
declared elected. There is always and naturally much bitterness and disturbing effect following interferences by the general
government with affairs exclusively belonging to a State, and
this result would be greatly augmented by recognizing the
right here asserted as vested in the Federal judiciary. Few
things in my judgment would have a greater tendency to
destroy the independence and autonomy of the States, reduce
them to a humiliating position, and engender constant irritation. Suppose the authorities of the State do decide erroneously as to the qualification of a person declared elected, if the
State acquiesces in the decision, what public policy is to be
subserved by invoking the interference respecting it of the
Federal authorities, whom the decision does not concern
There is already sufficient irritation from alleged interferences, whether true or not, in local matters by such authorities, without adding to it a thousandfold by subjecting the
qualifications of state officers and their installation to unauthorized Federal scrutiny.
I therefore at the outset earnestly protest against the assumption of any such authority.

