CASES ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.

LOUISVILLE WATER COMPANY v. CLARK.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF KENTUCKY.
No. 1024.

Argued November 23, 24, 1891. - Decided January 18, 1892.

The immunity from taxation conferred upon the Louisville Water Company by the legislature of Kentucky by the act of April 22, 1882, 1 Sess.
acts, 1882, 915, was withdrawn by the general revenue act of May 17,
1886, Gen. Stats. 1888, c. 92.
The immunity from taxation granted to the company by the said act pf 1882
was accompanied by the condition expressed in the act of February 14,
1856, 2 Rev. Stats. Ky. 121, and made part of every subsequent statute,
when not otherwise expressly declared, that by amendment or repeal of
the former act such immunity could be withdrawn.
The withdrawal of the exemption from taxation conferred upon the com-

pany by the act of 1882 put an end to the obligation, imposed upon the
company by that act, to furnish water free of charge to the city for the
extinguishment of fires, cleansing of streets, etc.
The acquisition b:y the sinking fund of the city of the stock of the watbr
company, whether before or after the passagd of the act of 1882, w*s
subject to the reserved poi-er of the legislature, at its will to withdra,*
the exemption from taxation, by amending or repealing that act.

THE court stated the case as follows:

The plaintiff in error brought this suit in the Louisville Law
and Equity Cdlurt for Jefferson County, Kentucky, to obtain a
decree preventing the seizure a~id sale of its property by the
VOL. CXLTM-1

1

OCTOBER TERTN, 18911 -.
Statement of the Case.

defendant, the sheriff of that county, for State and county taxes
assessed for the year 1887. The suit proceeds, in part, upon the
theory that the compi.hy's property was exempted from all
taxation by an act of assembly, passed April 22, 1882, which,
it is alleged, constituted, in connection with previous enactments, a contract between it,and the State, and that the general statute of Kentucky relating to the collection of the
public revenue, enacted in 1886, and under which alone the
defendant could justify the contemplated seizure and sale, impaired the obligation of that contract. The relief asked was
granted by the court of original jurisdiction,, and the defendant was enjoined from collecting the taxes in question. That
decree was reversed by the Court of Appeals of Kentucky,
and the 'cause was remanded with directions to require the
plaintiff to pay into court the taxes claimed, or, if it failed in
that, the management of its business should be entrusted to a
receiver, until an amount sufficient to pay the taxes and costs
of litigation was realized. To reverse that decree this writ of
-error was prosecuted.
Various statutes were referred to in argument as bearing
upon the questions presented for determination. Their provisions, so far as it is material, in any view of this case, to advert
to them, are as follows:
The Louisville Water Company was incorporated in 1854,
without any exemption-of its property from taxation, and
with authority to establish and maintaifi, within or near the
city of Louisville, reservoirs, engine-houses, pumping machinery,
etc., necessary to furnish at.all times an abundant supply of fresh
and wholesome water to the inhabitants of that city. It was
made its duty to furnish water to the city for the extinguishment of .fires, and the cleansing of streets, upon such terms as
might b6 agreed between itself and the municipal authorities;
and, if the latter assented thereto, the water company was to
have.the exclusive right to furnish water to the inhabitants of
Louisville, by means of pipes and aqueducts, upon such terms
and for such time as might be stipulated between it and the
city. Sess. Acts, 1853, 1854, vol. 2, p. 121.
Subsequently, by an act approved February 28, 1867, amend-

LOUISVILrLE WATER COMPANIY v. CLARK.
Statement of the Case.

ing its charter, the water company was authorized, with the
consent of the general council of the city, to increase its capital stock, and the city was invested with power to subscribe
for such stock or any part thereof, and pay for the same in
bonds issued for that purpose. Sess. Acts, 1867, vol. 2, p. 167.
By an act approved March 9, 1867, it was provided, among
other things, that the general council of Louisville should not
have power to pass 6rdinances diminishing the resources of the
sinking fund of that city as then established, until the city's
debts then, or which might subsequently become, chargeable
upon that fund, were paid, and that the whole resources of that
fund from year to year should be sacredly set apart to the
payment of such debts, until they were fully discharged. The
mayor, the president of the board of aldermen for the time
being and three persons to be chosen by the general council
on joint ballot, and their successors in office, were constituted
the Commissioners of the Sinking Fund of the city of Louisville, with corporate powers and existence, with authority to
do and perform all things necessary to execute the duties required and the powers given them by the act. The funds,
estate and income belonging then or subsequently to that
fund were vested inand placed nuder the control and management of said board of commissioners; if injured, withheld or
abstracted, the board could sue for and recover the same, or
any part thereof, in its corporate name. The commissioners
were directed to apply the fund to the payment of the city's
debts chargeable on the same when they could do so on fair
terms, and when that could not be done, to in Test the surplus
in bonds of the city, or for which it was bo ud, or bonds bf
the State of Kentucky, or in such good and sblvent stocks as
might be approved on the vote of a majority of each boaril
elect of the general council, by yeas and nays. Sess. Acts of
1867, vol. 2, pp. 417, 420.
A subsequent act, approved March 15, 1869, added to the
resources of the sinking fund of the city the stock owned by it
in the Louisville 'Water Company; also an annual tax of forty
cents on each one hundred dollars' worth of such real'and personal property as might be taxed for city purposes in that city,

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

to be levied and collected in cash as provided. It also provided
that no other than the bonded debt of the city should be
charged upon the sinking fund, unless provision was made for
the payment thereof at the time of the charge sufficient in the
opinion of the commissioners to pay it. Sess. Acts of 1869,
vol. 2, p. 462.
The charter of the city of 1870 directed the general council
to establish and maintain a fire department, with such force,
organization, apparatus, engines, etc., as were sufficient to provide against fires, etc. By that charter it was further declared
that the water worfks, as an institution of the city, should remain as then established by law, but the general council should
not take further stock in the company without an ordinance
first passed for that purppse, declaring the amount to be taken,
how to be paid for, and the tax necessary to be levied to meet
the same, which ordinance should be subject to approval or
rejection by the qualified voters of the city at a general election called for that purpose; also, that no tax or water yent
should be levied for the purpose of paying for the use of water
for public purposes, or for paying the expense of conducting
and managing the works, except upon the lands and tenements
of the water district. Sess. Acts, 1869, 1670, vol. 2, pp. 30,
60, 61.
That charter was amended and the resources of the sinking
fund were further increased by the acts of March 3, 1871, and
March 21, 1871, investing the commissioners of the sinking
fund with power to purchase from the city or frofn individuals
holding the same, certificates of stock in the water company;
such stock, when purchased, to be held as a part of the sinking
fund of the city. Sess. Acts, 1871, vol. 1, pp. 323, 325 ; vol. 2,
p. 352.
The 4th section of article "12 of chapter 92 of the General
Statutes of - Kentucky, adopted in 1873, made it "the duty of
the president, treasurer or secretary of any gas.or water .ompany or association in this State to report, under oath, to the
auditor of public accounts, on or before the-10th day of July
every year, a full and complete statement of all property, real,
personal or mixed, including 'buildings, engines, machinery,

LOUISVILLE WATER COMPANY v. CLARK.

5

Statement of the Case.

pipes above and below ground, reservoirs, retorts, tanks, meters,
lamp posts, together with any and all other species of property
connected with or in any way belonging to or under the control of such gas or water company, and any surplus accumulated, or contingent fund on hand, cash on hand, stocks, bonds
or other securities, and the total cash value thereof." The 5th
section of the same article made it "the duty of the president,
treasurer, secretary, mayor or agent of any toll-bridge company, incorporated city, mining or other incorporated or manufacturing company, gas or water company or association, in
or doing business in this State, under or by virtue of any act
of incorporation named in this article, to pay into the treasury,
on or before the 10th day of October in each year, a tax upon
each one hundred dollars of the value of the property owned,
possessed, held or represented by such company, city or association, equivalent to the tax collected upon real estate." Gen.
Stat. 1873, p. 745.
It. should be here stated that by an actapproved February
14, 1856, entitled "An act reserving power to amend or repeal
charters and other laws," it was provided, in respect to all
charters and acts of incorporation gyanted after that date, that
"all charters and grants of or to corporations, or amendments
thereof, and all other statates, shall be subject to amendment
or repeal at the will of the legislature, unless a contrary intent
be therein plainly expressed: Provided,That whilst privileges
and franchises so granted may be changed or repealed, no
amendment or repeal shall impair other rights previously
vested;" and that "when any corporation shall expire or be
dissolved, or its corporate rights and privileges shall cease by
reason of a repeal of its charter or otherwise, and no different
provision is made by law, all its works and property, and all
debts payable to it shall be subject to the payment of debts
owing by it, and then to distribution among the members according to their respective interests ; and such corporation may
sue and be sued as before, for the purpose of settlement and
distribution as aforesaid." 2 Rev. Stats. Kentucky, 121. This
act was preserved in the General Statutes adopted in 1873, and
was, in express terms, made applicable to all charters and

OCTOBER (TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

grants of or to corporations or amendments thereof, "enacted
or granted since the 14th of February, 1856."
Gen. Stats.
Kentucky, 1873, p. 616.
Such were the relations between the State, the City of Louisville and the water company when the act of April. 22, 1882,
was passed, amending the charter of that company, and exempting it from therayment of taxes of all kinds, state, municipal
and specijal. That act provided:
"1. It shall be, the duty of the Louisville Water Company
to furnish water to the public fire cisterns and public fire plugs
or hydrants of the city of Louisville for fire protection free of
charge.
"12. The sinking fund" of the city of Louisville being the
owner of the stock of the Louisville Water Company, and said
water company by virtue thereof is the property of the city of
Louisville, therefore the Louisyille Water Coilpany is hereby
exempt from the payment of taxes -of all kinds, of whatever
character, state, municipal or special. This act shall take effect
from and after its passage." Sess. Acts, 1882, vol. 1, p. 915.
It thus appears that when the act of 1882 was passed as well
as ever since February 14, 1856, a general statute of Kentucky
reserved the power to amend or repeal all charters and grants
to corporations, or amendments thereof, "at the will of the
legislature, unless a contrary intent be 'therein plainly expressed."
On the 17th of May, 1886, a general statute was passed,
amending the revenue laws of the State. Acts 1885, 1886,
pp. 140, 14i, 202. This act has becbme chapter 92 of the
General Statutes of 1888. It declares that "all property, real
and personal, within this State, not herein. expressly exempt
by law, shall be assessed, as nearly as practicable, according to
a uniform rate, in the manner hereinafter provided;" and contains a section similar to section 4 of article 12 of chapter 92
of the General Statutes of 1873. It is admitted that the property of the water company is subject to taxation under the
act of 1886, unless it was entitled, after and notwithstanding
its passage, to the exemption given by the act of April 22,
1882.

LOUISVILLE WATER COMTPAY v. CLARK.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

The following sections of article 12 of the act of 1886 indicate the extent to which previous laws were affected by it:
" 5. Chapter 92 of the General Statutes, the act of March
2S, 1872, entitled ' An act to amend chapter 83 of the Revised
Statutes, title Revenue and Taxation,' the amendment to said
act of March 28, 1872, entitled ' An act to amend an act, approved March 28, 1872, authorizing sheriffs to sell real estate
to pay revenue tax,' approved April 19, 1873, theact approved
April 2, 1878, entitled 'An act to amend section 6, article 6,
chapter 92 of the General Statutes,' an act to amend article 2
of chapter 92 of the General Statutes, title, Revenue and Taxation, approved May 8, 1884, and all other acts, general and
special, and parts of acts inconsistent herewith, or not in conformity herewith, are hereby repealed; but nothing in this
act shall interfere with any existing local option, or any special or prohibition law in any county, nor with any local or
general law for creating or collecting county levy, or with
chapter 1315 of the acts of 1879, 1880, or with an act entitled
'An act for the benefit of, the Branch Pefiitentiary at Eddyville,' approved April 7, 1886.
"§ 6. Nothing in this act shall be held to repeal, or in
any way impair, the force and effect of any local or special
act, or any general law now in force, or that may hereafter be
passed, providing for the appointment of collectors of state revenue or county levy and poll-tax, in any county of the State, nor
shall anything herein be construed to repealor impair the force
of any special or local law giving to counties or towns, for
road or street purposes,.the fines collectedfor violations of the
road and bridge laws of said county.
"§ 7. That this act shall take effect from and after
September 14, 1886; but it shall not operate as a repeal of
existing laws as to any assessment made; licenses granted or
obligations or penalties incurred under any existing law."
XM. Willia, Lindsay and
r. '. 1. Barnett for plaintiff
in error. X?. E. X.. Lane and .2r.J. C. Barnett were on their
brief.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

The act to amend the charter of the Louisville Water Companuy, approved the twenty-second of April, 1882, constituted
a contract between the plaintiff in error and the State of
Kentucky.
This statute, consisting of two ections, should be read as a
whole, and construed in the light of all the previous legislation
by that State on the subject, viz.: (1) The charter of the Louisville Water Company; (2) The charter of the city of Louisville; (3) The charter of. the Commissioners of the Sinking
Fund of the city of Louisville; (4) The act of the General
Assembly of March 15, 1869, by which the stock in the Louisville Water Company, owned by the city of Louisville, was
added to the resources of the sinking fund; (5) That by law
all the resources of said sinking fund were to be held and
sacredly used for the payment of the principal and interest of
the bonded indebtedness.of the city of Louisville, 'including the
present and any future indebtedness of said city; (6) That the
Louisville Water Company had, prior to April 22, 1882, furnished the public fiie cisterns and public fire plugs or hydrants
with water for fire protection, and that the city of Louisville
had paid for such 'ater; (7) That the said act of April 22,
1882, was accepted by the Louisville Water Company, and
from that date tc the present time the said water company
has furnished to the public fire cisterns and public fire plugs
or hydrants, an abundant supply of water for fire protection
free of charge; (8) That the water thus furnished for fire
protection to the city of Louisville, costs the Louisville Water
Company 10,00 annually.
It is well settled tha where a doubt arises in the construction of a statute, though it attaches only to a particular clause,
the whole statute is to be considered together, in arriving at
the legislative intent. Commonwealth v. Duane, 1 Binney,
C01; S. C. 2 Am. Dec. 497; Commonwealth v. Alger, 7 Cush.
53, 89; ]i-azaretk Lit. Inst. v. Commonwealth, 14 B. Mon. 266;
.Bailey v. Commonwealth, 11 Bush, 688; Market Co. v. fofman, 101 U. S. 112; 3Berrida v. Silsy, 21 How. 146, 161;
-Nfash v. Towne, 5-Wall. 689.
It will niot be argued that it was within the' legislative

LOUISVILLE WATER COMPANY 'V. CLARK.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

power to require the water company to furnish water for fire
protection to the city free of charge. The same power had,
by laws previously passed, authorized the parties to contract,
one to furnish an abundant supply of water for that purpose,
and the other to pay for it. It would not have been more
flagrantly unreasonable or unlawful if in lieu of section 1 of
the said act it had provided that the water company should
pay al the taxes levied by the State on all the property in the
city and in Jefferson County, or that the property of the water
company should after that date be the property of the city or
other corporation or person. To give such a construction
would at once declare the first section a nullity and violate
the well established rules of construction. If we follow the
rules of construction, and take the whole statute together, it
will be seen at once that the legislative power of the State
made an offer of exemption from taxation, and the reason for
such exemption was in consideration of the performance of
the services therein named, which offer was accepted and the
duties performed.
The object th, to be attained was a public one, for which
the Stp could . ke such provisions by legislative enactment
as in the judgment of the legislative department would best
promote the pliblie he,
bth
and the public comfort, or the protection of pubiie and private property. O/o Life Ins. Co. v.
Debolt, 16 How. 415; .ITew Orleans Water W orks v: Rivers,
115 U. S.674; ewport v. Light Company, 84 Kentucky, 166;
Louisville W1ater *Yo.v.' anilton, 81 Kentucky, 517; Vew
Orleans Gaslight Co. v. LouisianaLight and Heat Producing
.3farwfactuag Co., 115 U. S.650; Louis-ville Gas Co. v. Citizens Gas Light C., 115 U. S.683; Gordon v. Winehester Building Ass'n, 12 Bush, 114; -lobile v. Eimball,102 U. S. 691; State
v. _Tore'is Aqueduct, 46 N. J. L. 495; New Orleaq's v. 'Clark,
95 U. S.644; Beekmrnan v. Saratoga Railroad Co., 3 Paige, 44;
S. C. 22 Am. Dec. 679; Riche v. Bi'r farbor,75 Mpine, 91;
IndianapolisWater Works Co. v. Burkhardt,41 India,.a, 364;
Kane v. Baltimore, 15 Maryland, 240; Portland v. Portland
Waler Co., 67 Maine, 135; Spring Valley Water Works v. 8an
Firanciseo,52 California, 111 Dingley v. Boston, 100 Mass. 544.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

-In 1868 the General Assembly of Kentucky incorporated
the Green and Barren River Navigation Company and conferred upon it such corporate powers and privileges as were
deemed necessary to enable it to carry out the purposes of its
creation. By a provision of the act of incorporation the State
leased to the qorporation for the" period of thirty years the
'Green and-Barren River line of navigation. After the organiation of the corporation it complied 'with the condition of the
proposed contract of lease, and took and held possession of the
improvements for a number of years. In 1880 the legislature
passed an act to repeal; in part, the act incorporating the company. The repeal applied to so mdch of the act as leased and
conveyed to the navigation company the Green and Barren
River line of navigation, and the benefits of tolls and revenues
arising therefrom. The Court of Appeals of Kentucky held
that this repeal could not be held to have divested the company of afiy of its rights, or to impair.the validity of the contract. Sinkng. -Fund Com'rs v. Green & Barren River
.AYa'v. Co., 79 Kentucky, 73, 81.
It is submitted- that if the legislature can - compel the water
company to supply:water to the fire department of the city of
Louisville, free of charge, for the protection as well of the property of the State and Federal government as of the city and its
people, and' cannot exempt the property of the company from
state taxation, or can withdraw the exemption at will, then the
State may, in this way and to this extent, legitimately diminish
this resource of the' sinking fund.
-Mr. James _P.
error.

elm and -Mr. Helm Bruce for defendant in

HAnx,,.after stating the case, delivered the
M JusTrE
u
opinion of the court.
The contention of the water company that it acquired by
the act of 1882 an exemption from taxation which could not
be withdrawn by. subsequent legislation, without its consent,
makes it necessary to inquire whether that exemption was in

LOUISVILLE WATER COMPANY v. CLARK.
Opinion of the Court.

fact thus withdrawn; and, ifso, whether the statute withdrawing itimpaired the obligation of any contract the company
had with the State by the act of 1882.
It is clear that the exemption allowed by the act of 1882
.was withUrawn by the general revenue statute of 1886. While
the former act exempted the water company from 'taxation of
whatever character, state, municipal or special, the latter subjected to taxation all property, real and personal, within the
State, unless expressly exempted by its provisions. The act of
1886 not only failed to exempt the property of the water company from taxation, but expressly required, as did the General
Statutes in force prior to 1882, (art. 12, § 4, c. 92,) that every
water company doing business, within the State, should make,
annally, a full and, complete statement, under oath, of all its
property, including its surplus or contingent fund, cash, stocks,
bonds and other securities.. And that there might be no possible doubt as to the scipe of that act, the chapter of the General Statutes'relating to taxation, and other statutes specially
named by their titles, relating to revenue, and all other acts
and parts of acts, "general and secial," inconsistent or not ii
conformity with its provisions, were expressly repealed by the
act of 1886.: The sweeping character of this repeal is further
shown by the specification of certain laws that were excepted
from the repeal, which specification did not include the act of
1882. The latter act is special in its exemption of a particular
company from taxation. It was, therefore, inconsistent with
the revenue act of 1886, which embraced, in terms, all property,
real and personal, within the State, not expressly exempted by
its provisions from taxation. There is thus a positive repugnancy between the special and general act. This being so, the
repealing clause included the special act of 1882, and, therefore,
subjected the property of the water company to taxation as
provided in the revenue act of 1886. In so -holding, we do no
violence to the established rule that repeals by implication are
not favored, State v. Stoll, 17 Wall. 425, 431; Exparte Crow
.Do,, 109 U. S.556 570;-,Cew Heang v. United State.s, 112
U. S.536, 549); for, under the repeal of all special acts not in
conformity with the general statute, the act of 1882- not being

OCTOBER TERle,

1891.

Opinion of the Court.

expressly excepted from such repeal, cannot stand with that
of 1886.
Was the repeal, which was effected by the revenue act of
1886, in violation of any rights acquired by the water company
under the act of 18812? We think not. The act of 1882 contained no clause that "plainly expressed" the intention not to
exercise the power, reserved by the statute of 1856, to amend or
repeal, at the will of the legislature, all charters of or grants
to corporations, or amendments thereof, and other statutes.
There, was no such reservation in the act of 18541, incorporating
the. water company, and, therefore, that act was subject to
the general statute of 1856. Hamlton.v. 1Kit/, 5 Bush, 458.
Enat, in respect to all the acts passed after 1856, amending the
charter of, or reIating to, the water company, including that
of 1882, each must be read as if all the provisions of the act
of 1856 were incorporated in it, because in no one of them is
plainly expressed an intent to waive- the right of amendment
or repeal at the will of the legislature. In this view, the
rights acquired by the water company under'the act of 1882
were subject to the reserved power of amendment or, repeal;
saving, whenever that pover was exerted, all rights previously
vested. In short, the immunity from taxation, granted by the
act of 1882, was accompanied with the condition -expressed.
in the act of 1856 and made-part of every subsequent statute,
when not otherwise expiessly declared - that, by amendment
or repeal of the former act, such immunity could be withdrawn. Any other interpetation of the act of 1856 would
render, it inoperative for the -purposes for which, manifestly, it
was enacted.
These conclusions are sustained by many adjudications. In
Pomlinsonv.Jesup, 15 Wall. 454, 457, which involved the liability to taxation of a corporation, an amendment of whose
charter exempted it from taxation, this court said: "It is true
that ,he charter of the company when accepted by the corporators constituted a-contract between them and the State, and
that the amendment, when accepted, formed a part of the contract fromthat date and was of the same obligatory character.
And it may be equally trde, as stated by counsel, that the ex-

LOUISVILLE WATER COMPAN Y v. CLARK.

13

Opinion of the Court.

eruption from taxation added greatly to the value of the stock
of the company, and induced the plaintiff to purchase the shares
held by him. But these considerations cannot be allowed any
weight in determining the validity of the subsequent taxation.
The power reserved to the State by the law of 184-1 authorized
any change in the contract as it originally existed, or as subsequently modified, or its entire revocation. The original corporators, or subsequent stockholders, took their interests with
knowledge of the existence of this power, and of the possibility of its exercise at any time in the discretion of the
legislature. The object of the reservation, and of similar
reservations in other charters, is to prevent a grant of corporate rights and privileges in a form which will preclud5
legislative interference with their exercise if the public interest
should at any time require such interference. It is a provision
intended to preserve to the State control over its contract with
the corporators, which, without that provision, would be irrepealable and protected from any measures affecting its obligation. There is no subject over which it is of greater moment
for the State to preserve its power than that* of taxation.
Inmunity from taxation, constituting in these cases a
part of the contract with the government, is, by the reservation of power such asi contained in the law of 1841, subject
to be revoked equally with any other provision of the charter
whenever the legislature may deeni it expedient for the public
interests that the revocation shall be made. The reservation
affects the entire relation between the State and the corporation, and places under legislative control all rights,.privileges
and immunities derived by its charter directly from the State."
So in Railroad Co. v. Yvaine, 96 U. S.499, 510, where the
question was as to the liability to taxation of a consolidated
corporation which came into existence while a general statute
was in force, providing that any act of incorporation subsequently passed might be amended, altered or repealed at the
pleasure of the legislature, n the same manner as if an express
provision to that effect were therein contained, unless there
was in the act of incorporation an express limitation, or provision to the contrary. In that case the court said: "There was

OCTOBER TERM, 1891,
Opinion of the Court.

no limitation in the act authorizing the consolidation, which
was the act of incorporation of the new company, upon the
legislative power of amendment and alteration, and of course
there was none upon the extent or mode of taxation which
might be subsequently adopted. By the reservation in the law
of 1831, which, is to be considered as if embodied in that act,
the State retained the power to alter it in all particulars constituting the -grant to the new company formed under it, of
corporate rights, privileges and immunities. Thd existence of
the corporation and its franchises and immunities, derived directly from the State, were thus kept under its control." To
the same effect are Railroad Co. v. Georgia,98 U. S. 359, 365;
foge v. Railroad Co., 99 U. S. 348, 353 ; Sinking Fund Cases,
99 U. S. 700T,
720 ; Greenwood v. Freight Co., 105 U. S. 13, 21;
Close v. Glenwood Cemetery, 107 U. S. 466,476.; Spiing Valley
Water Trorks Co. v. Sclottler, 110 'U. S. 347, 352; Louisville
Gas 6o. v. Citizens' Gas Co., 115 U. S. 683, 696; Gibbs v.
'Consolidated Gas Co., 130 U. S. 306, 408; Sioux City Street
Railway v. Sioux City, 138 U. S. 98, 108.
In harmony with these views is the decision of the Court of
Appeals of Kentucky. in Grifftn v. JEntucky liisurance Con_pany, 3 Bush, 592, where the question was as to the validity of
an act, passed in 1868, repealing the charter of an insurance company, granted iRW1865, and which did not expressly reserve the
power of repeal. The court said: "The charter was certainly
a contract with a legal obligati6n which could not be constitutionally impaired by ordinary legislation. But what is its obligatiori . Had the charter itself reserved the power to repeal
it, that reservation *wouldhave been part of the contract, and
have moulded its obligation accordingly; and such qualified
obligation would not have been impaired by an exercise of
that power." After observing that although there was no
such reservation in the company's charter there was one in
the act of 1856, the provisd of which, while securing the
rights of beneficiaries and others, did not affect the mere power
to repeal the franchise, the court proceeded: "That statute
[1856] in its prospective operation is constitutional, and therefore a law of the State; and, as it has never been repealed, i

;IOUISVILLE *WATER C03-PANY v. CLARK.

15

Opinion of the Court.

applies to the charter of ' The Kentucky Insurance Company,'
unless, as argued, the non-reservation in the charter itself of
power to amend or repeal it implied a repeal, as to it, of the
general statute. But there being nothing in the language of
the charter importing any such intention, if the mere pretermission of special reservation of the power to amend or repeal should be construed as a negation. of the power, the
statute of 1856 would be superflous and- inoperative; because,
in relation to charters reserving the .power, there was no necessity for that enactment, which therefore was intended to operate only on charters which do not reserve the power already
reserved by statute. Then, was this general reservation of
power, like a special reservation in the charter itself, a part of
the contract; or was the contract made subject to it, and the
obligation defined or modified by it? We think so. And,
whatever might be thought of the policy of such legislation,
or of the policy or justice of the repealing statute over vhich
the judiciary has no jurisdiction, our conclusion as to the mere
power of repeal is, as we think, sustained by reason and abundant authority."
It is, however, contended that the exemption from taxation
could not be withdrawn while the water company remained
under the obligation imposed by the first section of the act of
182 to furnish water to the city for fire protection, free of
charge. But no such obligation remained after the passage
of the act of 1886, which, as we have. seen, had the effect to
withdraw the immunity from taxation granted by the second
section of the act of 1882. In determining the object and
scope of the act of 1882, we must look at all of its provisions.
The water company was under a duty by its charter, passed
before the act of 1856, to furnish water for the extinguishment of fires and the cleansing of streets, hot free of charge,
but upon such terjms as might be agreed upon by it and the
city. And the legislature certainly did not assume to impose
upon .itthe obligation to furnish water, for fire protection,
free of charge, except in connection with the grant to if of
immunity from taxation. Accepting, however, the benefits
of this exemption from taxation, it became bound to supply

OCTOBE R TERlM, 199 1.
Opinion of the Court.

water for public purposes, free of charge.

But that obligation

remained only so long as the exemption continued in force.
The act of 1882 is to be regarded as an entirety, and meant
nothing more than thdt the company should furnish water for
fire protection, free of charge, so long as the immunity from
taxation continued. This view is in harmony with the act of
1856, which expressly declares that whilst privileges and
franchises granted to' corporations, after its passage, could be
changed or repealed, no amendment or repeal should impair
other rights previously vested. The effect of the withdrawal
of the immunity from taxation was, therefore, to leave the
water company in the position it was before the passage of
the act of 1882 in resp~ct to its right to charge for water furnished for public fire cisterns, fire plugs or hydrants.
.MAuch reliance was placed by the plaintiff upon Com asioneis Sinking Fnrdv. Green and Br'ea.River".lVavigation'
Co.; 79 Kentucky, 73, 75, 83. But there is nothing in that
case inconsistent with the views we have expressed. It was
there decided that the. legislature could not consistently with
the constitution, or with the above statute of 1856, take from
the Green and Barren River Navigation Company, without
•making -ompensation therefor, the right it acquired under a
contract with the State, concluded in 1868, to take, for a term
of years, tolls from vessels navigating Green and Barren Rivers,
in consideration of its agreement, which had been- fully performed, to maintain and kdep. in repair, at it§ .own expense,
such line of navigation. The case before us presents no such
features. As' already indicated, in losing an exemption from
taxation the water company regained its rights to make sudh
pharges for water, furnished for fi e- protection, as it could
rightfully have done before the 'act of 1882 was passed, and
whilst its property was suhject to taxation.
We have thus far considered the case as one between the
State and 'the water company as a private corporation. It is
not perceived that the result should he different if we regarded
the ease as one Aecessarily involving proprietary rights of the
city of Lbuisville, or.the rights of creditors whose debts were
or are charged upon the sinking fund of that municipality.

LOUISVILLE WATER COMPANY v. CLARK.
Opinion of the Court.

The various acts referred to were passed, as was the act of
1882, in view of the general statute of 1856, and, as none

of them contained a provision expressly waiving the right of
amendment or repeal, it must be held, for the reasons already
stated, that the acquisition by the sinking fund of the stock'of
the water company, whether before or after the passage of the
act of 1882, was subject to the reserved power of the legislature, at its will, by amending or repealing that act, to withdraw
the exemption from taxation. Such withdrawal did not impair
the obligation of any contract rights of creditors whose debts
were charged upon the sinking fund, because such rights, whenever acquired, were subject to the power to amend or repeal
the statute granting to "the water company immunity from
taxation. The withdrawal of that immunity, it is suggested,
impaired the value of such rights, but, in view of the reservation contained in the act of 1856, that result must have been
regarded as possible when those rights were acquired. No
right of any creditor has been impaired even in value, except
as that result has followed from the reserved power to amend
or repeal the statute in question. The act of 1886 has simply
restored the water company'and all persons interested in it,
directly or indirectly, to the situation in which they were when
the act of 1882 was passed, and the power to effect that result
was reserved by the general statute of 1856, because not
expressly waived by the act of 1882.
We, therefore, hold that it was competent for the legislature
to withdraw the exemption from taxation granted by the act
of 1882. The authority reserved in the act of 1856 to amend
6r repeal constituted a part of whatever contract was made by
the act of 1882, and its exercise, in the present instance, cannot
be said to have impaired the obligation of such contract, or, in
any just sense, to have impaired rights previously vested.
Decree {fflcimed.
Mit.

JUsTinc.

GR.Y concurs in the result.

,- VOL.cxLm-2

