318

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

with interstate commerce we do not think tenable. The tax
is not levied upon articles imported, nor is there any impediment to their importation. The products of the mine can be
brought into the State and sold there without taxation, and
they can be exhibited there for sale in any office or building
obtained for that purpose; the tax is levied only upon the
franchise or business of the company.
Judgment tflnmed.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN

dissented.

CHANDLER v. POMEROY.
APPEAT

FROM THE cIRcuIT COURT OF THE UNITED
THE DISTRICT OF NEW JERSEY.

STATES FOR

No. 1343. Submitted November 17, 1891.-Decided February 29,1892.
In order to justify a court in refusing to enforce a settlement of a quarrel
between the members of a large family, growing out of disputes about
the wills of their father and other members of the family, and out of
money transactions between brothers and sisters, upon the ground that
the settlement was obtained by.misrepresentation, active or covert, or that
it failed to express the real intent of the parties, the testimony should
establish the fact clearly and satisfactorily; and in this case it is not
so established.

THIS .was a bill in equity filed September 4, 1888, by the
appellant Chandler, as executor and trustee under the last will
and testament of George P. Pomeroy, deceased, against Josephine Pomeroy, Julia Pomeroy Morrison, her husband, William F. Morrison, and Alfred Mills, surviving executor of the
last will and testament of, George Pomeroy, father of the said
George P. Pomeroy, to enforce a certain agreement of settlement between George P. Pomeroy and his sisters, devisees of
the estate of George Pomeroy. The bill was subsequently
dismissed as to the defendant William F. Morrison, and about

CHANDLER v. POMEROY.
Statement of the Case.

the same time Eugene C. Pomeroy, son and heir at law of
George P. Pomeroy, appeared by his guardian and asked to
be made party complainant, if the court should deem it necessary or desirable, but no order appears to have been entered
making him a party.
The case arose out of the following facts: George Pomeroy,
of Madison, N.J., died June 24, 1880, leaving a will, dated
July 22, 1875, and an estate valued by him a few months
before his death at $893,000, consisting of personal property
estimated to be worth $538,000, and lands in New Jersey,
New York and Missouri valued by him at $355,000. The
personal estate, however, when inventoried was appraised at
$480,000. His family and heirs at law then consisted of his
wife, Abba S., and four children, George P., Edward, Julia
and Josephine. His will was duly probated at Morristown,
N.J., and letters testamentary issued to Edward Pomeroy and
Alfred Mills, who were appointed in the will as his executors.
Edward Pomeroy died March 6, 1887, whereby Mills became,
and still is, sole executor.
The estate of George Pomeroy was disposed of under his
will as follows:
a. The executors were authorized to deliver to the New
York Life Insurance and Trust Company securities to the
amount of $50,000, to be held in trust for the benefit of his
wife during her life, and upon her death fo divide the securities and proceeds equally between the three younger children,
Edward, Julia and Josephine. His wife died in February,
1883.
6. Securities to the amount of $30,000 were directed to be
deposited with the same company. to be held in trust for the
benefit of his son, George P., during his life, and at his death
such securities and the proceeds thereof were also to be
divided among the three younger children. George P. Pomeroy subsequently married Harriet Cowles, of Cleveland, who
died after giving birth to a son, Eugene C. Pomeroy. George
P. Pomeroy himself died in November, 1887.
c. The testator directed that no partition or sale of his real
estate should be made until his executors should have sold

OCTOBER .TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

real estate to the amount, of at least, $100,000; and further
directed that the proceeds of the first of such sales should be
deposited with the same company until the, amount should
reach. $100,000, which should be held and invested for the
benefit of his two daughters, Julia and Josephine, with instructions to collect and pay to each of them the interest on
$50,000, and in case of the death of either of them without
issue to pay such trust fund in equal shares to his son Edward
and his other daughter, and the survivor, (if one of them be
dead,) the issue of said Edward and of said other daughter
representing their parents respectively.
d. The residue of the estate, aside from some immaterial
legacies, was devised to his three younger children, Edward,
Julia and Josephine, in equal parts. It was provided that
the homestead at Madison, N.J., should be kept up by the
three younger children so long as they and the widow could
live harmoniously together, etc.
As between the two executors, Edward Pomeroy took
charge of the personal assets of the estate. As directed by
the will, the trust fund of $50,000 for the benefit of the
widow, and that of $30,000 for the benefit of George P., were
established by placing with the New York Life Insurance
and Trust Company the requisite securities.
George P. Pomeroy had been trained for public life, and
was abroad most of the time, engaged in the foreign diplomatic service of the United States. During his absence a quarrel arose between Edward and his sisters Julia and Josephine,
in which the latter claimed that "Iehad wasted their estate,
and was indebted to them in the aggregate amount of
$252,000. To recover., this amount the sisters brought suit
against Edward in ono of the courts of New York. In that suit
they charged that Edward had speculated in stocks with the
funds derived fr6m the estate of his father, and had made
large profits in which they should share, and had suffered
losses with which they should not be charged. Prior to
this suit, however, and in February, 1885, he turned over to
each of them securities to the amount of $50,000, besides
some small annual payments in cash.

CHANDLER v. POIMEROY.
Statement of the Case.

That suit was still pending when Edward Pomeroy died, on
March 6,1887, leaving a will, in which, after making some
small legacies to the amount of $6500, he devised his entire
estate to his brother George, -and made him sole executor.
His will was duly admitted to probate May 2, 1887. George
P. Pomeroy declined to act as executor, and Frank R. Chandler, the plaintiff, was appointed administrator with the will
annexed.
Shortly before Edward's death, namely, February 24, 1887,
George P. Pomeroy, then living in Paris, executed a will
leaving his entire estate to his infant son Eugene, then about
seven years old; but in case he should die before reaching the
age of 21 years and without leaving issue him surviving, the
estate was to go 'to Mrs. Martha E. Buckingham and her
daughters, Mrs. Chandler, plaintiff's wife and Rose A. Buckingham, and to the survivor of them, Mary t. Van Aulen
and Frank R. Chandler. Upon certain contingencies Chandler was to become executor of this will.
When Edward died his brother George was in Europe;
plaintiff Chandler was his business agent in America, and had
had general charge of his affairs for some years. Very soon
after Edward's death Chandler entered into negotiations with
the sisters for the purpose of bringing about a settlement of
the controversy between them and himself as the administrator of Edward's estate, and in connection with this certain
cable messages passed between George and his sisters in reference to the proposed settlement, which was embodied in an
agteement bearing date April 13, 1887, but actually executed
May 2.
This. agreement was executed at Morristown, N.J., and
was signed, sealed and acknowledged by George E. Pomeroy,
Julia 'P. Morrison, and William F. Morrison, her husband, and'
Josephine Pomeroy. After reciting in substance that Edward, at the time of his death, was indebted to the three
younger children, or some one or more of them, to an unknown amount; that the parties desired to settle the estate
of their father and their brother Edward without litigation,
and to adjust the claims of the parties against Edward's
VOL. cxLi-I-21

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

estate, suppressing and terminating the suits brought against
him and pending when he died; and that they desired to
vacate the provisions of their father's will in order to be
equally charged with, and equally to share in, the estates of
both George Pomeroy and Edward Pomeroy, and to settle
said estates and determine the value of the shares of each of
said heirs, they agreed in substance as follows:
1. The remainder of the estate of George Pomeroy, the
father, was to be equally divided among his three living children, Julia, Josephine and George P.
2. This division to be made as of the date of the death of
the father.
3. To arrive at the interest to which each should be entitled at the date of the agreement, each was to be charged
with the amount he or she had'received, with six per cent
interest from the date of receipt to the date of the document,
payable annually.
4. The estate of Edward was to be divided and distributed
equally between George P. and his two sisters, after payment
of his just debts and the specified legacies of $6500.
5. In case it should be found that the personal property of
said George or said Edward could not be equally distributed
in kind, then so much as might be necessary to be sold and
the proceeds divided.
6. The real estate of said George and of said Edward,
wherever situated, and by whomsoever held, to be conveyed
bit good and sufficient deeds so that each of the three parties
should hold an undivided third thereof as a tenant in common
with the others.
7. In the division of the said estate, the proceeds or revenue

to be derived from the trust fund for the benefit of George P.,
Julia and Josephine, created by the will of their father, to be
treated as a joint fund and divided equally between them,
and, so far as it lay in their power, the parties agreed that the
said trust fund should be considered and be the joint fund of
the parties.
The bill set forth these facts in substance, and prayed for
a decree declaring the settlement valid; that Julia and Joseph-

CHANDLER v. POMEROY.
Statement of the Case.

ine render an account of the property received from both
estates under such agreement; and that there be a reference
to a master to take such account; that the $30,000 trust fund
in favor of George P. Pomeroy be delivered to him with its
earnings and income; and that the iurviving executor, Mills,
be directed to proceed and c6mplete the execution of the will
and to pay over to the plaintiff property equivalent to the
trust fund of $100,000 in favor of Julia and Josephine; and
for a receiver.
The answer of Josephine and Julia denied that, in any of
the proceedings preceding the execution of the settlement,
any suggestion or mention 'was made that the several trust
funds provided for in the will, the $30,000 for, the benefit of
George 1., or the two funds of $50,000 each for the benefit of
the defendants Julia and Josephine, should be included therein; and that nothing was at any time said which led them to
suppose that said trust funds were to be included in the pro-'
posed settlement; nor was any mention made of any landed
estate or of any accounting for moneys received by these
defendants or Edward since the death of their father; and
that the agreement was signed without consulting counsel,
upon the advice of plaintiff that they should not d6 so. They
denied that the minds of the parties met, and averred that
they never were aware that the settlement included these
trust funds until after the execution of the settlement, and
upon the evening of the same day, when they were informed
by plaintiff of its terms; when they at once repudiated that
portion of the agreement, and have always refused to recognize it as binding upon them, so far as it proposes to cover the
trust funds.
A supplemental bill was subsequently filed praying for an
injunction against the prosecution of a certain suit brought
by Josephine in New Jersey for a partition of, or sale and
partition of, the proceeds of the lands of George Pomeroy;
and also of another suit brought by the sisters in Missouri for
a partition of the lands of which George Pomeroy died seized.
Upon the filing of this supplemental bill an injunction was
granted, which is still in force.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Argument for Appellees.

Upon the final hearing in the Circuit Court upon pleadings
and proofs, the original bill was dismissed for want of equity.
(46 Fed. Rep. 533.) From this decree the plaintiff appealed
to this court.
.'.

Charles C. Bonney for appellants.

.r. George TV Smith and Mr. J hn ftaynard Harlan for
appellees.
I. No decree in favor of complainant was practicable.
There was by the will of the elder Pomeroy no devise to
the executors. By the filling of the $100,000 fund, the powei
of Mfills, surviving executor, was exhausted. He could not
thereafter sell the unsold real property. Neither by the cable
messages nor by the agreement of April 13, 1887, was the
attempt made to authorize him to sell.
If then, the realty is to be converted into personalty, it must
be done by or under the general equity jurisdiction of the
court. The persons or class of persons who will ultimately
receive or be entitled to take the principal of the $100,000
trust fund, are as yet unknown. The legacy was to the trust
company in trust to pay the income of one half to Julia for
life, and of the other half to Josephine for life. At the death
of either, leaving issue, the principal of one-half was to go to
such issue, and in default of issue to the survivor and Edward.
It was a gift to survivors, at the death of a person in being,
and by the established rule should take effect only at the'time
of such death. Newberry v. Blatcford,99 Illinois, 11, 42.
Edward has died leaving no issue, and the sisters are living. Suppose one should die leaving issue, the issue not yet
known Would take. Suppose one should die leaving no issue,
would the survivihg sister take the whole as survivor, or would
*she take jointly with the heirs of Edward? Suppose both
.sisters should die leaving no issue of either, would their heirs
take, or would the heirs of Edward share with such heirs? Is
the residuary estate the subject of executory gift by either
Julia or Josephine? All these are questions suggested by the

CHANDLER v. POMEROY.
Argument for Appellees.

clause of the will relating to the $100,000 fund, not necessarily
or perhaps even properly answerable here. Until the death
of one of the sisters it is impracticable to make a rule for equalizing the distribution of this fund.
II. Chandler represented the sisters in the' negotiations of
1887. His duty was to all alike, in so far as to see that all*
alike understood what they were doing, and that neither was
misled or deceived. The obligation rested upon him at the
hearing to show that in all respects he had fully and fairly performed his duty. The burden of proof was on him to show
that the supposed contract was free from the bias of his personal influence, and that there was no mistke or misapprehension of its terms on the part of either of the sisters. How far
he came short of complying with the well founded and well
known rule in this regard, the evidence will show..
III. The question must be dealt with as primarily one of
business, with enough only of sentiment in it to dispose the
parties to a settlement upon a reasonable basis. If,in view of
all the circumstances at the time, the agreement was executed
-in view of the position of vantage the sisters held, and that
of disadvantage George P. held, in view of the scope of the
controversy then to be settled, and of the conduct of the parties, including Chandler, it appears that the agreement is inequitable, that there is no equality in it, as that term is properly
used, then this court will not reverse the decree of the lower
court refusing specific enforcement. Before a court of equity
will grant such relief it "must be satisfied that under all the
circumstances it is equitable to give more relief than the plaintiff can have at law." .Marquisof Townmhend v. Si andgroorn,
6 Ves. 328, 332.
In this connection counsel adverts to the fact that no crossbill has been filed, apparently thinking the failure to ask for
an annulment or alteration of the agreement militates against
the defence here by appellees. But the point is not well taken,
for the sufficiency of appellees' defence to appellants' prayer
for affirmative relief does not depend upon whether upon a
cross-bill or original bill, appellees could have had the odious
provisions of the agreement amiulled. .Mortlock v. Buller, 10

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

Ves. 292, 307; Cathcart v. Robinson, 5 Pet. 264, 276; Hennessey v. Woolworth, 128 U. S. 438.
IV. The agreement contemplated a division of the income
only, during the joint lives of the parties.
V. George P. Pomeroy had an advantage in the distribution in 1887.
Miz.

JusTICE

BRoww, after stating the case as above reported,

delivered the opinion of the court.
This case turns solely upon the question whether the settlement or compromise of May 2, 1887, between the sisters Julia
and Josephine and Mr. Chandler, the representative of their
brother's estate, was executed under such circumstances as to
call upon a court of equity to enforce its specific performance.
This involves the subordinate question whether the sisters were
imposed upon in giving their assent to this settlement.
Some years before its execution a quarrel had arisen between
Edward and his sisters, which had culminated in a suit brought
by the latter, in which they had charged their brother with
speculating in stocks with the funds derived from their father's
estate, and with having made large profits in which they
ought to share, and suffering losses with which they ought
not to be charged. This suit had intensified the bitterness
felt by Edward to such a degree that, in making his will,
which was executed October 23, 1886, he left his entire estate,
less a few legacies amounting to $6500, to his brother George,
making him also his sole executor. This will only served to
complicate matters still more, as Edward had never settled
with his sisters for their share of his father's estate, and was
also thoight by some to have made a large fortune in speculations in which his sisters would have been entitled to share, in
the absence of a will. Their brother George had received
under the will of their father only the income of $30,000, with
a proviso that, at his death, the principal should go, not to his
children or heirs, but to his younger brother and his sisters an inheritance far less than he would have received had no will
been made. Thus Edward, in bequeathing to his brother

CHANDLER v. POMEROY.
Opinion of the Court.

George his interest in his father's estate, gave him but little
more than he would have received under the natural laws of
inheritance, but in giving him his own estate, which was
thought to be very large, he ignored his sisters altogether.
Under this state of facts there was nothing unnatural in the
suggestion that the estates of the father and Edward should
be added together and divided equally among the three surviving children. If it had turned out that Edward had made
a large fortune it might have. been an advantage to his sisters
to share in it; if not, Julia and Josephine would at least have
obtained a settlement of their suit with the estate, and have
admitted their brother George to his natural inheritable share
of his father's estate. From a fraternal point of view it was
not an unwise proceeding, although from a pecuniary standpoint it was, as characterized by one of the witnesses, "a leap
in the dark."
Edward died March 6, 1887. His brother was in Europe,
and his sisters in New York. The first suggestion of a settlement came immediately after Edward's death, from a Mr.
Chapman, who had been a neighbor of George Pomeroy in
Morristown, aid acquainted with the sisters for twenty-five
years. He went to their hotel the very day of Edward's
death, and met the two ladies, Mr. Morrison and Mr. Cowles,
and made a proposition to divide the securities, making no
mention in his conversation of the trust funds created by the
father's will. His own statement of the proposition is as follows: 1" Now, says. , I will make a proposition: 'Let bygones
be bygones; let's take the thing as it stands to-day; put the
securities a into a hat and shake them up and divide them
into three parts- George one-third, and the girls each onethird; that would settle the whole difficulty. Whatever Ed.
has lost, let it come out of the girls' share, if he had lost any,
if he had-lost more than he had made; but to settle it up and
divide it into three parts, but to 'start as it stood to-day.' That
was the proposition -all I had, to say about it. . . . Not
a word" was said in regard to trust fund- or back charges.
"There couldn't have been anything said about back charges,
for my proposition was to take the things as they stood then;

328

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

let all that Edward lost and all that go, and just start in and
take the securities and things as they stood then and divide
it, so there couldn't have been anything said in regard to' any
back accounts that they had, and as to the trust fund there was
My understanding was that
no question or nothing.
they" (the sisters) " approved of it, and so did Mr. Cowles."
In *narratinga subsequent conversation with Mr. Chandler in
regard to this, he testifies: "I merely said 'I said nothing
when I made the proposition about the trust funds, from the
fact that I didn't suppose the girls had any right to the trust
funds."' He again testifies: '1 Every one agreed to it, and, as
I say, I thought the girls would be the loser by a small amount,
but .then I looked upon it that they had better lose a few thou-rand apiece than to be running after lawyers any longer. They
-had been hampered with lawyers a, good while and worried to
doath, and I felt. it was better for them."
It seems that Mr. Cowles, who .was the father-in-law of
George-P. Pomeroy, also advised an ending of the litigation,
and a division of whatever was, left equally among the three.
Mr. Morrison, Julia's husband, testifies: "'W11hatever was left'
we understood as what was left by the father of the father's
estate; also in the sense of what wa left from the speculations that Edward had made, perhaps the wreck of the estate;
whatever there was, large or small, as matters then stood.
.]Mr. Cowleg said that he was going right over to
.
Paris, to London at least; that he would see George and urge
this upon him." -Very soon after that Mr. Cowles left for
Europe. Shortly after the death of Edward, and 'on March
12, alia wrote to her brother, who was abroad, trging him
to return home at once and attend to the probating of the
will, and watch his' own interests. 'Regarding the proposed
settlement, she wrote as follows: "Now, I have a proposal to
make to you. Suppose we do away with all lawyers in the
settlement of our affairs, for they expect $50 or $100 every
time they look 'at you. You appoint Frank Chandler, who is
unquestionably your friend; we appoint Mr. Morrison, who is
undeniably a friend to both parties. Let nothing, be binding.
Frank and my husband are both capable and honest men. Let

CHANDLER v. POMEROY.
Opinion of the Court.

them look over the securities together in our presence and try
and settle between yourselves. We will avoid expense by so
doing; but this we can discuss when you return. I only speak
of it now so that you can reflect upon it at you± leisure. You
have, of course, seen and talked with Mr. Cowles by this time,
and you know you inherit all of Edward's personal and real
estate, excepting a few legacies. My advice is to get your
property and enjoy it while you live, and to let all wrangling
cease, which diminishes the capital, puts every one in hell,"
etc.
The next day Mr. and Mrs. Morrison went to Newport, leaving their sister Josephine in New York. While at Newport a
correspondence was opened between Chandler and Mrs. Morrison, which is not all produced, although Mr. Chandler states
the substance of his own letters to have been that the three
children, Julia, Josephine and George, were to receive, past,
present and future, exactly the same, and in the adjustment as
to the the of receiving to be equalized on'a six per cent basis
for money.
On April 6, however, Julia writes to the plaintiff from Newport as follows: "I am willing to agree to your plan of settlement, and promise you now to do so. But how about the trust
fund? Do you mean to cancel that and Georg6's thirty thousand trust fund, too, and lump all together ? This we would
prefer, as our trust fund will only yield each $1500 or $1800 a
year. George gets more on his $30,000 than we would on
$50,000. I am afraid that Mr. Mills will not let us relinquish
this in behalf of the estate. He wants his commission. What
are we to do about this?" A few days afterwards; on April
13, she writes him as follows: "Josephine and I are willing to
settle this matter as you propose unless we find there is but a
small estate left In that case I think we should be allowed
to keep the trust fund in excess, in order to make up in a measure for Edward's speculative transactions with our money.
This, I am sure, you will consider fair. If the estate is large,
as it ought to be, we can lump all together and share alike."
About the same date Josephine writes a letter to her aunt,
Mrs. Van Aulen, which contains the following : "I am awfully

330

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court..

afraid Edward was poor; but if we are willing to sign this
agreement, so as to stop all litigation, we will not go back on
it. Why should George wish to be richer than we, or we wish
to be richer than him '"
The plaintiff also had some correspondence with Josephine. Before going to New York,
and in pursuance of this correspondence, Mr. Chandler had
the proposed settlement drawn up in the form in which it was
afterwards signed, by one Gill, a lawyer of Chicago. It was
drawn up in triplicate on the th or 8th of April, and dated
the 13th, though it was not actually signed until May 2. Upon
his arrival in New York, which was on April 11, he called upon
the sisters at a house upon Madison avenue, and testifies as
follows regarding the interview: "I requested that they should
take that agreement .to their counsel who was conducting the
litigation against their brother Edward. They consented to
do so. The next day, after our first interview, they were to go
with me to see Hill, Wing & Shoudy, their attorneys in William
street, and consult with them. I.told them they should not
under any circumstances settle the suit against Edward without consulting with their. counsel in regard thereto, or to sign
this agreement that I proposed." He further swears that the
ladies being ill, he went to Mr. Shoudy's alone, and showed
him the document; that he read it over, and said he would
like to retain it over night, and the next day he would be able
to tell Mrs. Morrison what she had better do; that Mrs. Morrison went down with hhn the.next day and found Mr. Shoudy
in the office; leaving Mrs. Morrison there he went out for a
short time, and soon returned and asked what the result of the
con iultation Was. To use his own language: "Mrs. Morrison
spoke up and said: 'MAr. Shoudy says we are taking a great
leap in the dark, but nevertheless we will settle. We will carry
it out. We will make the settlement.' At that time Mrs.
Morrison gave her acquiescence in my plan of settlement, and
Josephine, whom we saw afterwards, approved of it also. The
difficulty.then was to get their brother George to give his consent. Although I had authority to act generally for him, I
did not feel that I could sign such an important settlement,
which involved -a very large sum of money, without positive

C-IANDLER v. POMEROY.
Opinion of the Court.

and direct instructions."

Josephine says of the interview on

Madison avenue, before the visit to Shoudy's office: "Mr.
Chandler called one morning with my aunt, Mrs. Van Aulen.
.
After that Mr. Chandler took out a paper from his
.
pocket- I think about two sheets- and said he wanted to
read us a few lines of what he had jotted down on his way
from Chicago-his plan of settlement or proposal. I told
him I was too ill to listen to him; I could scarcely sit uphold my head up -but he insisted on my staying; so we listened to him reading it through, and it was very ambiguous;
and when he finished, I said, ' Frank,.I don't understand that.'
It was very ambiguous. Then my sister said, ' Does it mean
to divide up what is left?' He said, 'Yes; it means that.'
That was all that'was said on the subject of business at that
interview."
Chandler remained in New York for a week, seeing the
sisters almost daily, and, in order' to obtain the consent of
George, who was then in Europe, made use of the cable, and
the following telegrams passed between the parties. As these
telegrams constitute an important part. of the correspondence
they are reproduced in full:
-

"New York, April 15, 1887.
"To Chandler, sixty-three Pierre Charron, Paris.
" Power received. Doubtful value. Have George sign cablegram himself, authorizing settlement equal division father's,
brother's estate, including the trusts, and renouncing executorship, if necessary. Mary and I advise settlement before Edward's condition known. None seeking advantages,.'but peace,
equality. No confidence in us. get somebody else.
FRx m."
"(Signed)
Chandler, who produced this cablegram, explained the address as meaning his family's apartment in Paris, where Mr.
Cowles and Mr. Pomeroy then were, and the contents of the
telegram by saying that the settlement was based upon a principle and not upon a result. "I felt that if Edward's estate
proved very small the sisters would not settle; if it proved very

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.

Opinion of the Court,

large, the brother would not settle." It is at least doubtful
whether the sisters ever saw the telegram. To this +elegrawthe following answer was received:
"Paris, 4, 17, 1887.
"To Frank Chandler, St. James Hotel, New York.
"No litigation. Will allow sisters just rights on arrival
thirtieth. Please arrange all other important business. Address American Exchange, London.
"(Signed)

GEORGE PoMERoY."

To this he replied as follows:
"To Pomeroy.
-' Dispatch unsatisfactory. You donAt understand sitiiation.
Return Chicago Tuesday. - Henceforth manage your own
affars.

(Signed)

FRN'K CnANLER."

On April 19, Pomeroy telegraphed from London to his aunt.
Mrs. Van Aulen, as follows:
"London, April 19, 1887.
"To Van Aulen, 675 Fifth Avenue, New York.
"I accept-proposition to share equally with sisters in father's
and Edward's estates, including all trust fund. Legal expenses both sides and Edward's debts to be paid out of joint
estate."

U-non the same day the three ladies cabled Mr. Cowles as
follows:
"Edwin Cowleb, American Exchange, London, Eng.
"Proposition accepted by us, but George must come home
immediately. Frank cannot act without him; losing money:
"(Signed)
JULrA and JosEPHINE and VAN AuLEN."
Upon the same day Mr. Cowles cabled as follows to Mrs.
Van Aulen:
"George cables acceptance proposition. I have a duplicate
with his signature. He will act good faith. He is ill, not fit

CHANDLER v. POMEROY.
Opinion of the Court.

to travel alone; cannot he wait till I sail May 7th, wants to
finish medical treatment; answer, immediately' American Ex-.
change, as he leaves morning Germanic.

"(Signed)

COWLES."

Upon the same day Julia also telegraphed to Mr. Chandler,
who had returned to Chicago, as follows:
"New York, 19.
"To Frank B. Chandler, 110 -Dearborn Street, Chicago, Ill.
"George accepted terms; he arrives next week; will write
you in full."
She also wrote him a letter of same date, enclosing copies
of the telegrams from Cowles and George P. Pomeroy and
the replies to them. About the 30th of April Mr. Chandler returned from Chicago to New York, and went a day
or two afterwards to Morristown, where he met George P.
Pomeroy, who in the meantime had returned from Europe, and
'the sisters. They went directly to the office of Mr. Halsey, an
attorney at that place, where the agreement was signed. At
the same time the will of Edward Pomeroy was admitted and
proved. George P. Pomeroy renounced the executorship, and
Mr. Chandler qualified as administrator witi the will annexed..
In the interview at Mr. Halsey's office something seems to
have been said to the effect that the trust funds c6uld not be
touched. But it seems to have been only an incidental remark, not assented to by Mr. Chandler, probably not heard by
him, as he was deaf, and not made the subject of discussion.
That evening there was a meeting of the parties at their house
in Morristown, when the agreement was read, its contents
explained by Mr. Chandler, and, as the sisters -now claim, the
agreement with regard to the back charges and trust fund
was first called to their attention. The interview was evidently a stormy one, the sisters threatening to repudiate the
agreement, and insistigg that they were dividing up what was
left; that if he ever attempted to force this he could only do it
by law through the courts; and that they did nqt know it was
in the agreement or anything about it. Mr. Chandler insisted

OCTGBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

that, as they had signed it, they were bound by it. He claims,
however, that the only dispute was with regard to the interest
and the method of making an accounting, and it is proven that
the following memorandum was made and handed to him that
evening or soon after:
"To F. R. Chandler.
"SiR: In figuring interest on the accounts in accordance
with the agreement of April 13th, 1887, it is understood that
interest shall be figured to May 1, 1887,, and all sums that
come between the 1st and 15th of any month shall be called
to the first of that month, and between the 15th and 30th of
any month, then to the 1st of the following month."
This was signed by George P. Pomeroy and the sisters.
Conceding that the sisters had not read the agreement or
demanded that it be read to them before they signed it, as
they were bound to do, and that their counsel, Mr, Shoudy,
had not informed them of its terms as fully as he might have
done, it is difficult to see how, in view of the telegrams between the parties in New York and those in Europe, and their
own letters, they could have understood that the trust funds
were not included, if they understood the force of language.
Not only did George's telegram, a copy of which Julia enclosed in her letter of April 19 to Mr. Chandler, expressly mention "all trust funds," but it was also mentioned in the original telegram from Chandler to Mr. Cowles of April 13, of
which she probably knew the contents, and her reference to
it in her two letters from Newport of April 6 and April 13,
puts it beyond controversy that the propriety of including the
trust funds was made a matter of discussion. Their conduct
subsequent to the agreement tends strongly to show their acquiescence in it. On the 9th of May they executed a power of
attorney to Chandler to settle and dismiss their suits in Missouri and to take charge of their property there. Upon the
same day they executed a bond reciting their authorization to him to make a distribution of the estate of Edward
Pomeroy, and to pay it to the legatees and devisees named in

CHANDLER v. POMEROY.
Opinlon'of the Court.

his wil, and agreed to indemnify him against any debts which
should be recovered against the estate. On the following day
Mrs. Morrison writes to her aunt, Mrs. Buckingham, expressing her pleasure at the settlement of their troubles, "since we
have signed an agreement to wipe out all wills and divide
what is left, share and share alike. . Frank will charge us with
all our personal expenses since father's death, which is perfectly proper, but he only proposes to charge George with
what he received from the trust fund left him by father, and
not one cent of all the surplus he got out of 'mother and of you
for mother's effects."
During t- summher an active correspondence was carried
on between -Mr. Chandler and the two sisters with relation to the settlement of the estates upon the basis of their
agreement, in which repeated allusion was ,made to the
trust fund and to an equal division of the income of the
same, and no siggestion on the part of either party that they
were not understood to be included. Julia repeatedly expressed
her pleasure that the settlement had been effected, and at the
manner in which Mr. Chandler was proceeding to wind up the
estates. Not only this, but the parties proceeded so far in
the execution of the settlement that the two ladies turned
-over to the plaintiff securities to the amount of $109,153.33,
to which were added the estate of Edward Pomeroy,, ($190,000,) that of George Pomeroy, ($119,000,) and the insurance
upon the life of Edward in the amount of $8000, and a divi-.
dend declared in securities of $73,896.67 to each of the
defendants; in addition to a cash dividend of $54,000 to each.
The defendants also received from Mr. Chandler two-thirds
of the income collected July 1, 1887, from the life insurance
and trust company on the $30,000 trust -fund of George P.
Pomeroy, i.e. that proportion dating from May 1, accordin&
to the agreement of settlement. They also paid over to him
one-third of the income for the same period of their own trust
fund of $100,000. Indeed, their relations seem to have been
of the most friendly description until the death of George in
November. When the contents of his will were made known
this controversy arose.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the. Court.

We have searched the record in this case in vain for evidence
that the plaintiff brought about this settlement by any fraud,
misrepresentation or undue influence. Undoubtedly the defendants had confidence in Mr. Chandler's integrity, his knowledge of business, and his acquaintance with these estates; it is
possible that he was better informed of the amount of Edward's
estate than they, but there is nothing to indicate that he made
use of this information to deceive them as to its value. Their
motive in entering into'this agreement was doubtless an honorable one. They had been engaged in a long and apparently
bitter quarrel with their brother Edward over the supposed
misappropriation of their father's estate. George had been,
to use Mr. Morrison's own language, "practically disinherited
by the father. His sisters had not broken the father's will
and reinstated him. This had made George very sore. The
aunt and uncle suggested and pressed upon the ladies the fact
that they then had the opportunity to bring about a perfect
reconciliation and peace with.their brother; that if litigation
was stopped and all that there was divided up equally among
the three, what was left that this desirable result would probably be accomplished." The sisters had themselves been
excluded from Edward's will, and there was at least a possibility that his estate would be large enough to make an equal
division of both estates advantageous to them. Under these
circumstances, and for the sake of peace, they agreed to the
settlement. If equality be, equity, we see no reason why it
should be disturbed. From a financial point of view the
agreement may have been a mistake. They acted, however,
not without deliberation, and with at least an opportunity of
consulting'with counsel and with Mr. Morrison, in whom they
seem- to have perfect confidence. B-Rt if the venture turned
out'unfortunately for them, it is difficult to see in what particulaj plaiintiff was to blame.
,Much stress was laid by the court below upon the fact that
Mr. Chandle' advised the sisters not to consult with a lawyer
With regard to tlie. proposed settlement. This was strenuously
denied by Chandler; but whether this be so or not, it is evident that the first proposal not to consult with a lawyer came

CHANDLER v. POAEROY
Opinion of the Court.

from Julia herself in her letter of March 12 to her brother
George, in which she makes the distinct proposal to "do away
with all lawyers." But at any rate, the fact is indisputable
that they did consult their counsel, Mr. Shoudy; and that
the plaintiff accompanied them to his office, and handed him
a copy of the agreement, which he retained over- night,
although Mr. Shoudy testifies that his advice was not sought
as to the propriety or advisability of the agreement. He
seems, however, to have made no objection beyond the suggestion "that it was a leap in the dark," and if the defendants
had any doubts themselves about its propriety, they should
have consulted him upon the subject.
Reliance is also placed upon the frequent use, both in the
correspondence and in the oral testimony, of the words
"dividing up what was left." These words are, however,
susceptible of two constructions; they may refer, as contended
by the defendants, to the residue of the estates after laying
aside the trust funds; or they may refer to what was left over
and above what the children had spent or Edward had lost,
if any, in speculation. Indeed these words are so ambiguous
as to be an unsafe guide in ascertaining the actual intent of
the parties.
In order to justify the court in refusing to enforce a family
settlement of this kind upon the ground that it was obtained
by an active or covert misrepresentation, or that it failed to
express the real intent of the parties,-the testimony should
establish the fact clearly and satisfactorily. In this case,
however, all or nearly all the written testimony tends to
corroborate rather than to impeach the agreement, and it is
only by resort to oral evidence of facts asserted by one party
and denied by the other that any doubt whatever is thrown
upon the intent of the parties. That Mr. Cowles, who was
one of the first to talk with the sisters -regarding the settlement, did not suppose the trust frods were to be excluded is
manifest from a letter written by him to George P. Pomeroy,
March IS, before he left for Europe, in which he says: "The
girls have made this proposition in'
order to settle the litigation: That you give up your claim to the .aniuity you have.,
VOL. CXim--22

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

they give up their claim to the special legacy of $100,000 left
them in your father's will, and that all property, landed and
personal, be divided equally among all three of you." It was
aiparently upon the basis of this letter and his subsequent
conversations with Mr. Cowles that Pomeroy cabled his
acceptance of the proposition. The letter was written after
his interview with the sisters, and in all probability he stated
the agreement as, he understood it from them. lHe would
scarcely have ventured to impose upon George by manufacturing a different story. Under the circumstances it seems to us
very improbable that the parties could have contemplated that
securities tb the amount $130,000, worth $142,000, should be
withdrawn and not taken into account in the division, or that
George would ever have consented to the agreement with that
reservation.
We do not find it necessary upon this appeal to put a construction upon this agreement, to determine whether it applies
to the principal as well as the income of the trust funds, or
whether in this suit the court may proceed to a partition of
the real estate. These questions ill arise more properly upon
the settlement and enforcement of the decree. It is sufficient
for the purposes of this case to hold, as we do, that the settlenent was a valid one, and that the defendants should be
required to account in accordance with the prayer of the bill.
The decree of the court below will be reversed and the case
remanded, witk instructions to enter a decree for. tile
plainiJ, aod fo furtherproceedings in conformity witi

this opno.

/

.

