OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA "v. HUTTON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
,.,No. 138. Argued January 12, 1892.-Decided February 1, 1892.
section 354 of Rev. Stat. Dist. Columb., providing that " no person shall
be appointed to office, or hold office in the police force [of the District of
Columbia] who cannot read and write the English language, or who is
not a citizen of the United States, or who shall ever have been indicted
and convicted of crime; and no person shall be appointed as policeman
or watchman who has not served in the army or navy of the United States
and received'an honorable discharge" was repealed by the act of June
11, 1878, "providing a permanent form of government for the l)istrict
of Columbia." 20 Stat. 102, c. 180.
Ecloffv. Districtof Columbia, 135 U. S. 240, affirmed as to the point that
the act of June 11, 1878, 20 Stat. 102, c. 180, supplied to the District of
Columbia for the'first time a permanent form of government in the nature of a constitution.
United States v. Tynen, 11. Wal 88, quoted and applied to the points: (1)
that when there are two acts on the same subject effect is to be given to
both, if possible; (2) that when two acts on the same subject are repugnant, the later operates to repeal the earlier to the extent of the repugnancy; and (3) that a later act, covering the whole subject of an earlier
one, and embracing new provisions, showingthat it was intended as a
substitute for the earlier act, operates as a repeal of that act.
When a later act operates as a repeal of an earlier act of Congress, a subsequent recognition of it by Congress as a subsisting act will not operate
to prevent the repeal.

THE court stated the case as follows:
This was an action by Harry S. Hutton against the District
of Columbia to recover the sum of $182.50, with interest, alleged to be due him for salary as a member of the metropolitan
police force of the District, from June 6, 1890, to August 20,
of the sane year.
The defendant filed a special 'plea in bar admitting plain'tiff's appointment on the police force at" the salary specified in
the declaration, and also his faithfnl performance of the duties
required of him, in that position, for the time for which he

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA v. HUTTON.
Statement of the Case.

claimed pay; but setting up, by way of avoidance, that he
ought not to recover, because, at the time of his appointment,
he had never served in the army or.navy of the United States,
which service, it was alleged, was, and is, a condition precedent to legal appointment on the police force.
To this plea the plaintiff filed a demurrer which set up
(1) that the statute relied upon in the plea had been repealed,
and that there was no such statute in force in the District of
Columbia; and (2) that the appointment of the plaintiff on
the police force, and the acceptance of his services, as such
officer, by the defendant, entitled him to recover for such
services.
The demurrer was certified to the Supreme Court of the
District in general term, to be beard there in the first instance,
and, having been overruled, judgment was entered in favor of
the plaintiff for the full amount sued for. The opinion of the
court below, in advance of the official reports, will be found
in vol. 19, Washington Law Reporter, 386. The District has
prosecuted a writ of error.
The single question in the case is, whether § 354 of the
Revised Statutes of the United States relating to the District
of Columbia, prescribing the qualifications of persons eligible
for appointment on the police force, was repealed by the act
of June 11, 1878, 20 Stat. 102, c. 180.,
To understand fully the nature of this question a brief summary of the legislation of Congress respecting the government
of the District of Columbia, and especially with regard to the
District police, since 1861, will be found useful, if not indispensable. By the act of August 6, 1861, 12 Stat. 320, c. 62, the
District of Columbia was constituted a "Metropolitan Police
District," and the police affairs thereof were put under the
control and management of a board of police, consisting'of the
mayors of Washington and Georgetown and five commissioners of police, to be appointed by the President of the United
States, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate.
This board was invested with plenary powers respecting the
police affairs of the District, in all particulars, and the act
established a complete system of police. The eighth section,

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

amxong other things, prescribed qualifications for holding any
office on the police force by providing therein as follows: "No
person shall be so appointed to office, or hold office in the
police force aforesaid, who cannot read and write the English
language, or who is not a citizen of the United States, or who
shall ever have beeiiindicteed and convicted of crime."
Shortly after the clbse of the war, an additional qualification
for the benefit of the tonorably discharged °soldiers and sailors
of the United States whq had participated in that great struggle, was prescribed for those holding office on the force. The
general appropriation act of ]March 2, 1867, 14 Stat. c. 166,
449 457, inits first section provided that "hereafter no person
sL'Al be appointed as policeinan or watch~nan [in the metropolitan police for the District of Columbia] who has not served
in the army or navy of the United States, and received an
honorable discharge."
These Provisions respecting the qualifications of an officer
on the police force were carried into the Revised Statutes of
the United States relating to the District of Columbia, enacted
at the first session'of the 43d Congress, and are there embodied
in § 354. That secti6n provides as follows: "1No person shall
be appointed to office, or hold office in the police force, who
cannot read and write the English language, or who is not a
citizen of the United States, or who shall ever have been
indicted and convicted of crinie ; and no person shall be appointed as policeman or watchman who has not served in the
Army or Navy of the-United States and received an honorable
discharge.""
During all this period, and up till 1878, the police affairs of
the District remained under the control of the metropolitan
police board established by the act of 1861. In the meantime,
however, the other govrn-mental affairs of the District had
undergone several changes. By the act of.February 21, 1871,
16 Stat. 419, c. 62, a territorial government was established
for the District, the general administration of affairs being
committed to a governor and a legislative assembly: Thig
territorial system of governnient, however, did' not last long.
The act establishing it was repealed in. 1874, and the repealing

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA v. HUTTON.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

act vested the affairs of the District in a commission, consisting of three persons to be appointed by the President of the
United States by and with the advice and consent of the
senate. This commission was invested with large and ample
powers for the administration of the general affairs of the
District, but had no power or authority in matters relating tc
the schools or to the police. With respect, however, to the
appointment and removal from office of persons employed in
other capacities, and those officers themselves, it provided, in
§ 2, as follows: "Said commissioners are hereby authorized to
abolish any office, to consolidate two or more offices, reduce
the number of employCs, remove from office, and make appointments to any office authorized by law." Act of June 20,
1874, 18 Stat. 116, c. 337.
Affairs remained thus until 1878. On the 11th of June of
that year an act was passed entitled "An act providing a permanent form of government for the District of Columbia."
20 Stat. 102, c. 180. This act continued in force the main
provisions of the act of 1874, enlarged the power and authority
of the commissioners in some respects, especially with regard
to the schools and the police, and retained the provision
respecting officers, above quoted, from the act of 1874. Its
sixth section is as follows: "That from and after the first day
of July, 1878, the board of metropolitan police and the board
of school trustees sball be abolished; and all the powers and
duties now exercised by them shall be transferred to the said
commissioners of the District of Columbia, who shall- have
authority to employ such officers and agents and to adopt such
provisions as may be necessary to carry into execution the
powers and duties devolved upon them by this act.
"
The court below held that the section just quoted had the
effect of repealing § 354 of the Revised Statutes relating to
the District, prescribing certain qualifications for officers and
members of the police force, and gave to the commissioners full
power and authority to appoint to such offices whoever they
might choose, under such regulations as they might adopt.
.-M. Assistant Attorney GeneralPfrauryfor plaintiff in error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

The result of the decision of the court below is that the act
of June 11, 1878, 20 Stat. 102, c. 180, has repealed section 354
of the Revised Statutes relating to the District of Columbia.
So that, under this view, a person "who cannot read and write
the English language," or who has been "indicted and convicted
of crime," or "who has not served in the army or navy of the
United States and received an honorable discharge," may be
appointed to any position in the metropolitan police. In a
word, the decision is that Congress has legislated so unwisely
as to do away with all law prescribing the qualifications of
members of the police force, and leave the matter to the commissioners,I unreservedly.
' The act of 1878, which is supposed to have produced this
effect, contains no words of repeal, but the court below held
that there was a necessary implication in the act of an intention to repeal section 354:.
If the act of 1878 had prescribed what the qualifications for
appointments to the police force should be, the intention to
supplant section 354 would have been clear; but the act is
silent on the subject. Upon what ground of construction can
we say that the old law requiring that a policeman shall have
certain qualifications is impliedly repealed by the subsequent
law ? There is no inconsistency between the full power over
appointments and removals in the police force given to the
District commissioners and theprevious law requiring that a
po *eman, should read and write English, be a citizen of the
United States, should not have been convicted of crime, and
should have served in the army or navy and been honorably
disc harged therefrom.
If section 354 is repealed, then is also section 357, forbidding
a member- of th6 police force to receive, under any pretence
whatever, "any present, fee or emolument for police services
other than the regular salary and pay provided by this chapter,
except by consent of the board of police;" and the same may
be said of section 351, requiring that the members of the police
force shall be required to take an oath of office, and other
sections which need- not be particularly mentioned.
That Congress had no intention whatever' of repealing sec-

DISTRICT OF COLU1JBIA v. H1UTTONq.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

tion'354 is conclusively shown by section 4 of the act of January 31, 1883, 22 Stat. 412, c. 41, which is in the following
words: "That the commissioners may, and they are hereby,
authorized to appoint not more than six p~ivates, to' be. members of the police force, from among citizens of the United
States who have or have not served in the Army and Navy of
the United States, but who shall possess all the other .qualifications prescribed by section three hundred and fifty-four of the
Revised Statutes of the United States relating to the District
of Columbia."
This section is not referred to in the opinion of the learned
judge of the court below. Had it been brought to the attention of the court it would, we conceive; have compelled a judgment in support of the plea. Congress, it thus appears, clearly
recognized section 354 as a part of the subsisting law regulating the police force of the District as much as seven years
before the so-called appointment of the defendant in error,
Hutton.
Nothing is more improbable than that Congress should
have harbored the purpose to deprive the police force of the.
District of the great advantage of being recruited from men
honorably discharged from the army and navy, bringing as
they do into the force the tone of the regular military service.
It is a mistake to suppose that this requirement was intended
to be temporary.
The case of Ee'lof v. Dist'ict of Cobumbia, 135 U. S. 240,
does not conflict with our theory, because it holds that in the
matter of appointments and removals from the police force
the act of 1878 had superseded and repealed the previous law,
which is undoubtedly correct.
But it is to be remembered that it was "the .powers and
duties" of the police board only that were transferred "to the
commissioners by section 6 of the act of 1878. Now these
"powers and duties" did not extend to the subject of the
qualifications'of members of the police force, nor can it be said
that the existence of section 354, prescribing such qualifications, is, in any just sense, an interference with or a restriction
upon the appointing power of the commissioners, or is in any

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

way incompatible with the act of 1878. Nobody doubts that
Congress may prescribe qualifications for office without at all
invading the power of appointment of the President, let alone,
the commissioners of the District.
The appointment of Hutton being in violation of law, the
District of Columbia cannot be compelled to make compensation for services rendered by him under that appointment.
1i&. Andrew B. -Duvallfor defendant in error.
MR. JUSTIcE L&mAR, after stating the cases delivered the

opinion of the court.
The question of the repealing effect of the act of 1878 was
before us in Ecklof v. Distict of Columbia, 135 U. S. 240.
In that case the question was, whether that statute had repealed
§ 355 of the Revised Statutes relating to the District of Columbia, which provided that no person should be removed from the
police force, except upon written charges preferred against him
to the board of police, and after an opportunity should have
been afforded him of being heard in his defence. The court
decided that the repeal had been effected, and that the District
commissioners, under the power conferred upon them by those
sections of the act of 1878 to which we have referred, might
summarily dismiss afid remove a member or officer from the
police force.
, In its opinion, the court considered the effect of the merging, as it were, by the act of 1878, of the powers and duties
'formerly belonging to the metropolitan police board with
those plenary powers over the other affairs- of the District
which had been-vested in the commissioners by the act of
1874, and held that the commissioners, under the act of 1878,
had the same unlimited and plenary power respecting the
appointment and removal of police officers, as they had had
under the act of 1874, and continued to have under the act of
1878, over the other affairs of the District.
The court, however, did not rest its decision and judgment
upon that point alone, but went into a consideration of the

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA v. HUTTON.
Opinion of the Court.

general object and purpose of the act of 1878, with respect to
the government of the District, and said:
"But our conclusions are not controlled by this construction
alone. The court below placed its decision on what we conceive to be the true significance of the awt of 178. As said
by that court, it is to be regarded as an organic act, intended
to dispose of the whole question of a government for this District. It is, as it were, a constitution for the District. It is
declared by its title to be an act to provide ' a permanent form
of government for the District.', The word permanent is suggestive. It implies that prior systems had been temporary
and provisional. As permanent it is complete in itself. It.is
the system of government. The- powers which are conferred
are organic powers. We look.to the act itself for their extent
and limitations. It is not one, act in a series of legislation, and
to be made to fit into the provisions of the prior legislation, but
is a single complete act, the outcome of previous experiments,
and the final judgment of Congress as to tlre system of government which should obtain. Ii is the constitution of - the
District, and its grants of power are to be taken as new and
independent grants, and expressing in themselves both their
extent and limitations. Such was the view taken by the court
below; and such we believe is the true view to-be taken of the
statute." 135 U. S. 243, 244.
Under this view. of the object and purposes of the act of
1878, we think the court below was correct in holding that
that act superseded and repealed by implication § 354 of the
Revised Statutes relating to the District of Columbia. It is
true there are no express words of repeal in the act of 1878
applied to said . 354. But the whole tenor of the act shows
that it was intended to supersede previous laws relating to the
same subject matter, and to provide a system of government
for the District complete in itself, in all respects. The language of the sixth section of the act of 1878, that the commissioners "shall have authority to employ such officers and
agents, and to adopt 'such provisions as may be ne~essary to
carry into execution the powers and duties devolved upon
them by this act," clearly implies, we think, that, in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

employment of officers over whom .they are given control,
they may select-such persons, under appropriate regulations,
as they may deem suitable and competent for the discharge of
the duties pertaining to such offices, without regard to their
possessing the qualifications prescribed by said § 354.
Moreover, we think, the reasons actuating Congress in 1867
and in the 43d Congress, for requiring that a member of the
District police should be an honorably discharged soldier or
sailor, did not exist, at least in the same degree, in 1878. Vhen
this qualificational provision was first enacted, the war had not
been long ended, and it was but in harmony with the general
liber'al policy of the government of the United States towards
those who had fought in its army and navy during that conflict, that a discrimination should be made in their favor, in
the matter of appointmepts to various places of trust in the
nation's capital. Their appointment on the police force would
serve also to imbue that force with at least some of the precision and attention to duty found in all well regulated military
companies that have seen actual service. But in 1878, the
war had been over a number of years, and those who had participated in its struggles Were growing old, and were becoming
less able physically to perform all the duties of a member of the
police force. Under those conditions, it is entirely consistent
with the policy of Congress to hold that they intended to abolish the qualificational standard orginating in the act of 1867.
That standard of qualification was for the benefit, as we have
said, of those who had served in the war; and to carry it along
indefinitely would make it 'apply to those who had enlisted
and been dis.charged in time of peace,. as well as to those
for whose benefit it was originally intended. As was said by
the court below, "it is not likely that Congress intended to
discriminate between the citizen and the soldier or sailor of a
peace establishment."We are not unmindful of the rule that repeals by implication
are not favored. But there is another rule of construction
equally sound and well settled whichwe think applies to this
ease. Stated in the language of this court in Unitd States v.Tynen, 11 Wall. 88. 92j it is this.: "When there are two acts

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA v. HUTTON
Opinion of the Court.

on the same subject the rule is to give effect to both if possible.
But if the two are repugnant in any of their provisions, the
latter act, without any repealing clause, operates to the extent
of the repugnancy as a repeal of the first; and even where two
acts are not in express terms repugnant, yet if the latter act
covers the whole subject of the first, and embraces new provisions, plainly showing that it was intended as a substitute for
the first act, it will operate as a repeal of that act." See also
_3 Trveock, v. 2[rewpkis, 20 Wall. 59, 617; Traey v. Tuffly,
134 U.'S. 206, 223; Fisk v. Henarie, 142 U. S. 459.
It is contended, however, that by the act of January 31,1883,
(22 Stat. 412, c. 41; Sup. to. Rev. Stat. 2d edition, 397,) Congress recognized said § 354 as a still subsisting law, and that
that consideration should compel a reversal of the judgment
below. We are not impressed with this contention. The
object of the act just referred to was to abblish the detective
rorce established by § 340 of the Revised Statutes relating to
the District of Columbia, and to increase the police force in
certain respects. The fourth section, which is the one relied
on as sustaining the view contended for, is as follows:
"That the commissioners may, and they are hereby, authorized to appoint not more than six privates, to be members of the
police force, from among citizens of the United States, who have
or have not served in the army and navy of the United States,
but who shall possess all the other qualifications prescribed by
section three hundred and fifty-four of the Revised Statutes of
the United States relating to the District of Columbia."
It is manifest, however, from an inspection of this section
that there was no recognition in it by Congress that said § 354was still subsisting law. But even if Congress had supposed
that that section was still the law, when, as a matter of fact,
it had been repealed, it would make no difference in this consideration. Post,,iaster General v. Early, 12 Wheat. 136, 148;
Town, of 8oith, Ottawa v. Perkins, 94 U. S.260, 270; United
States v. CTOfqtin, 97 U. S.546, 548. The question is, was said
§ 354 repeak-. by the act of 1878? That is a judicial question,
to be detern ned by the courts, upon a proper construction of
that section and subsequent legislation upon the same subject

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Syllabus.

matter, and is not for the legislative branch of the government
to determine. Authorities last cited. The act of January 31,
1883, did not profess to reenact the provisions of § 354, and
we do not think there is anything in that act running counter
to the view we have taken in this case of the repeal of that
se~tion by the act of 1878.
It is further argued that if said-§ 354 be considered repealed
by the act of 1878, then certain other named sections of the
Revised Statutes relating to the District of Columbia must
also be held to be repealed, and that certain evil consequences
will flow from such ruling with respect to those specified sections. That, however, is a consideration not properly involved
in this case. Whether those specified sections or any others
of said Revised Statutes were repealed by the act of 1878 we
do not now decide. Our decision and judgment has reference
solely to section 354. It will be time enough to consider other
questions. when they are properly before us.
Judgment affirmwd.

NATIONAL STEAMSHIP COMPANY v. TUGMAN.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 150. Argued January 11. 1892. -Decided

February 1, 1892.

In a case reversed in this court and remanded to a state court upon the
ground that that court had lost its jurisdiction by petition and bond for
removal, the propriety of staying proceedings in the Circuit Court after
,removal, until costs adjudged in the state court hre paid, is purely a
matter of discretion in the Circuit Court
On the trial of an action to recover from a carrier freights improperly col1
lected from the consignees on shipments by plaintiff, plaintiff, who was his
own witness, was asked several questions with the apparent design of
showing that he had had other transactions with the defendant, upon
which he was indebted to defendant, and that there was a judgment pending against him in favor of defendant. Held,that these questions were not
admissible.
It being shown that a paper was served as a copy of an affidavit on behalf
of the defendant, with an order tWshow cause in the action on trial, it is

