GANDY v. MAIN BELTING COMPANY.
Statement of the Case.

GANDY v. MAIN BELTING COMPANY.
APPEAL

FROM

THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 148.

Submitted January 8, 1892.-

Decided March 7, 1892.

Letters patent No. 228,186, issued June 1, 1880, to Maurice Gandy, for an
improved belt or band for drivifig machinery and an improved mechanical process of manufacturing the same, are valid, and the novelty and
utility of the invention protected by it are not disturbed by the evidence
in this case.
The "public use or sale" of an invention "for more than two years prior
to" the "application" for a patent for it, contemplated by section 4886
of the Revised Statutes as a reason for not issuing the patent or for its
invalidation if issued, must be limited to a use or sale in this country.

THE court stated the case as follows:

This was a bill in equity for the infringement of letters
patent number 228,186, issued June 1, 1880, to Maurice Gandy,
for an improved belt or band for driving machinery, and an
improved mechanical process of manufacturing the same. In
his application the patentee stated that his invention consisted,
first, of an improved cotton belt; second, of an improved mechanical process for making cotton belts. "The belt consists,
first, of cotton canvas or duck composed of warp stouter than
the weft, both warp and weft being hard spun and the canvas
hard and tight woven ; second, of cotton canvas or duck thus
made, folded and united by longitudinal rows of stitching and
stitched under tension; third, of cotton canvas thus made,
folded and stitched, saturated with linseed oil; fourth, of cotton canvas thus made, folded, stitched and saturated with linseed oil, pressed and stretched until it is hard, even and rigid,
by which the belt is rendered insensible to the atmospheric
changes and non-elastic."
The machinery for manufacturing the belting is also set
forth in the specification, but thb only claim alleged to be infringed in this case is the second, which reads as follows:

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.

-

Opinion of the Court.

"2. The improved article of manufacture consisting of a hard,
even surfaced, rigid, impervious, non-elastic belt composed of
cotton canvas or duck having its warp thread larger than the
weft, both warp and weft being hard spun, the fabric tight
woven and folded, stitched and saturated with linseed oil."
The bill was in the ordinary form, and prayed for an injunction and an accounting. The answer denied that the invention was new, or patentable, hnd also denied infringement.
From a decree dismissing the bill, 28 Fed. Rep. 510, the plaintiff appealed to this court.
Xr.Amos Broadnax and .Ar. J. EdgarBull for appellants.
.M. -. Cooper Skapley for appellees.
MR.

JusTIoE

BRowx delivered the opinion of the .ourt.

The bill in this case was dismissed by the court below upon
the ground either that the second claim of the patent was
anticipated by a provisional specification of Robert B. Jones
filed in the, office of the British Commissioner of Patents, July
31, 1878; or, if Gandy made the invention before the date of
Jones' specification, that there had been a public use and sale
of the invention for more than two years prior to the application for the patent in suit -in other words, that the same
testimony which showed priority of invention on the part of
Gandy, showed a public use or sale by him of such invention
more than two years prior to his application.
On May 9, 1877, plaintiff Gaudy, who is an alien, and a
subject of Her Britannic Majesty, deposited at the office of
the British Commissioner of Patents a provisional specification, upon which a patent was subsequently issued for an improvement in machinery belts. He stated the object of his
invention to be .the manufacture of belts of cotton canvas that
would not give out by stfetching, or be detrimentally affected
by variations in the atmosphere, and at the same time be
sufficiently pliable to allow of their rutfning around small,
pulleys without cracking. To accomplish this he manufac-

GANDY v. MLAIN BELTING COMPANY.
Opinion of the Court.

tured his belts of cotton canvas or duck, "hard woven," put
together either by hand or by folders, and formed into a belt
of the desired width and thickness, stitched with rows of
stitching, and then soaked or saturated in linseed oil. After
the saturation, the canvas is formed into a belt by folding and
stitching. After this, it is passed through rolls to squeeze out
the superfluous oil, and it is then dried and painted, and lastly
stitched. The claim of this patent was "for constructing belts
or bands for driving machinery of cotton canvas or duck,
'woven hard,' and stitched, and saturated or soaked with oil,
such as linseed oil or any combihation thereof, as herein described or set forth, or any modification thereof." In 1883
this patent became the subject of litigation in the chancery
division of the High Court of Justice, and was held to be
invalid. In delivering the opinion of- the court, Mr. Justice
Pearson expressed a serious doubt whether the patentee'could
claim as a new invention a belt made of hard woven canvas,
when belts made of other descriptions of canvas and saturated
with oil were well known and manufactured years before. He
did not, however, decide the case upon this point, but upon
the ground that Gandy had not taken out his patent for his
real invention. "I think," he said, "he has described something in his patent which was *not his invention, and he has
not described in his patent that which was really his invention.
It appears that in the beginning of the year 1877
Mr. Gandy was making various experiments in order to perfect a belt which he was intending to patent, and having
made those various experiments with different kinds of canvas
be at last discovered that a canvas of a particular strength in
the warp was the best canvas that could be used for making
these belts. . . . But in the patent which he took out
there is not a singlc word to indicate that the warp ought to
be stouter than the weft; least of all is there any indication
that one particular strength in the Warp and one particular
strength in the weft would make the best canvas." The
learned julge held the patent to be bad because it did not disclose the very best way of making the manufhcture, remarking that in a patent subsequently obtained by him, in 1879,

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

he did describe the mode in which the belt was to be made,
by saying that the canvas in the warp was-to be stouter than
in the weft.
On appeal to the Court of Appeal, the Master of the Rolls
expressed regret at the misfortune of the patentee in not
describing his discovery, "because," said he, "I think Mr.
Gaudy did make a discovery." He held that the evidence
showed that Gandy's belts could only be made out of a particular class of hard-woven canvas, and, as his dlaim was for
the whole class, it was too large. In short, he held the patent
to be invalid because it did not properly describe the invention, and closed his opinion by again expressing his regret
that from the way in which the specification had been drawn
up, that which was a real and valuable invention in itself did
Lord Justices Cotton and
--not seem to have been claimed.
Lindley expressed practically the same opinion. Gandy v.
]Reddaway, 2 Cutler's Rep. of Pat. Cases, 49.
-Prior to this decision, however, and on December 1, 1877,
Gandy filed a substantial copy of his British specification with
the Conimissioner of Patents, and made a similar claim for
"a belt or band for driving machinery, constructed of hardwoven cotton canvas or duck, stitched and saturated and interlarded with oil, such as linseed oil, or any combination
thereof, as herein described or set forth." A patent was refused, however, upon the ground that the alleged invention
was substantially anticipated by certain English patents issued
in 1858 and 1861.
Subsequently, and on September 10, 1879, he filed the present application, and, after some correspondence and amendments of his original claims, this patent was issued. With his
application he also filed a specimen of his belt, which was the
same in all respects as the specimen filed with his prior application of December 1, 1877, and was, in fact, the identical
specimen.
(1) The defence to tuis patent is that on the 31st day of
July, 1878, one Jones filed a provisional specification with the
British Commissioner of Patents for an improvement in belts,
which consisted in increasing the strength of the warp or

GANDY v. MAIN BELTING COMPANY.
Opinion of the Court.

longitudinal fibres or yarns over the weft or cross fibres -in
other words, precisely the same specification as that contained
in the second claim of the plaintiff's patent, or at least for the
only element of such claim which is novel. Plaintiff's reply
to this is that, while Jones' aplication antedates his own in
point of time, his own invention was prior in point of fact,
and in proof of this he produces the three small pieces of belt
ittached to his application of December 1, 1877, which the
,ommissioner of Patents has certified were filed in the Patent
)ffice by Gandy at that date,- and more than six months
I)efore the Jones specification was filed in the British Patent
Office. This canvas is really the only one, for which the
patentee has sought to obtain a patent, although his first
application was refused because he neglected to describe his
real invention. Each of these belts is made of canvas with
warp obviously larger than the weft, and containing every
other element of the second claim of the patent. In relation
to this Mr. Gandy also testifies that he was acquainted with
Jones, who was a member of the firm of Garnock, Bibby &
Co., of Liverpool, and were customers of his. "They also,"
said he, "made a, stitched sail-cloth belting, and when they
found I had taken a patent for a belting that was a success,
they also applied for a patent. Seeing which in the papers, I
asked 'Mr. Jones to tell me what he was patenting, as he need
have no hesitation in doing so, seeing he had filed his provisional specification. He at once told me that it wasfor a belt
made with the warp stouter than the weft. I told him if he
would walk along to my factory I would show him that I had
been using for some time before his application a cloth to
make my belts in which the warp was stouter than the weft.
He went with me and saw the cloth and the belts and .was
satisfied that such was the case, and hence went no further
with his patent, but abandoned the application." The fact
that no patent appears ever to have been issued upon Jones'
application makes the truth of this statement seem quite probable. The canvas of which Gandy made use in England, it
seems, was manufactured by the X,t. Vernon Company of
Baltimore, and in further proof of the date of his invention,

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

he produced the testimony of Ae shipping clerk of that firm,
who swore tlat as early as 1876 the firm shipped to Gandy
belting canvas having the warp threads stouter than the weft;
there being six plies in the warp and only four in the weft.
Mr. Gandy also swears that since 1875 all the canvas ordered
by -him was made with the warp stouter than the weft. As
there is no testimony to contradict this it must be accepted as
a fact in the case.
(2) The court below, however, found that, conceding that
his invention was made as early as 1876, antedating the filing
of Jones' specification by some two years, the same testimony
also provdd that it had been in public use more than two
years before filing his application, and that under R~ev. Stat.
section 4886, the patent was therefore void. All that the
evidence upon this point shows is that Gandy ordered all his
canvas made by the Mt. Vernon Company and shipped to him
at Liverpool. There is no direct testimony to show whether
this canvas was made up into belting, or when the belts were
first publicly used or -sold abroad. Indeed, nothing to show
that it was in public use or on sale before the application for
the patent in this suit was filed. Even if we were authorized
to presume that such canvas was manufactured into belting
and sold or used in England, there is not a particle of testimony tending to show that it was publicly used or put on sale
in this country. Conceding that there was sufficient 9vidence
of the useof such belting in England, we think that this does
not vitiate the patent. Section 4886 declares that "any person
who has invented or discovered any new and useful art,
machine, manufacture or composition of matter, or any new
and useful improvement thereof, not known or used by others
in this country, and not patented or described in any printed
publicatibn in this or any- foreign country before his invention
or discovery thereof, and not in public use or on sale for more
than two yea'rs prior to his -application,unless the same is
proved to have been abandoned; may, upon payment of the fees
required by law, and other due proceedings had, obtain a patent
therefor." It is true that the language of this section contains
no restriction as to the place or country wherein the public use

GANDY v. MAIN BELTING COMPANY.
Opinion of the Court.

is made of the invention; but taken in connection with section
4887, providing that no person shall be debarred from receiving a patent, by reason of the invention being first patented
abroad, "unless the same has been introduced into public use
in the United States for more than two years prior to the
application," we think that the public use or sale contemplated by section 4886 must be limited to a use or sale in this
country. That this was the intent of Congress is also manifest from section 4923, providing that whenever it appears the
patentee believed himself to be the 6riginai and first inventor
of the thing patented, his patent shall not be held void "on
account of the invention or discovery, or any part thereof,
having been known or used in a foreign country before his
invention or discovery thereof, if it had not been patented or
described in a printed publication." So also in section 4920,
providing what the defendant may plead under the general
issue in actions for infringement, there is included the defence
"that it had been in public use or on sale in "this country for
more than two years before his application for a patent, or
had been abandoned to the public."
Taking all these provisions of the patent law together, we
think it was manifestly the intention of Congress that the
right of the patentee to his invention should notbe denied by
reason of the fact that he had made use of it,,or put it on sale
abroad, more than two years before tfie application, provided
it were not so used or sold in this country.
(3) The questions of novelty and utility may properly be
considered .together. There is much testimony tending to
show that Gandy believed himself to be the inventor of a
belting made of hard woven canvas stitched and saturated
with oil, and that the importance of having the warp stouter
than the weft was not fully appreciated by him, and hence
was not made an element of the claim of his original British
patent. The testimony, however, shows that the canvas or
duck ordinarily used for sails is made with the weft as stout, if
not stouter, than the warp, and that such canvas was found to
b impracticable for belting on account of its liability to stretch
or to crack in passing around the smaller pulleys. His first
VOL. CxLm-38

OCTOBER TERMI, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

belts made of ordinary soft canvas proved to be wholly impracticable owing to their apparently endless capacity for
stretching. He next experimented with hard-spun and tightwoven canvas, specially manufactured for this purpose. This
did not stretch, but developed another fault, of wrinkling and
cracking when running around pulleys. This he obviated by
saturating it with linseed oil; but found another objection. in.
the unequal strain 'on the several thicknesses when passing
around the pulleys, which tended to break the stitching and
permitted the plies to separate. He then conceived the idea
that by decreasing the thickness of the belt, without diminishing its tedsile strength, he would bring the' diameter of the
exterior plies more nearly level with the inner plies next the
pulley, and thus mor6 nearly equalize the strain on all parts
of the belt, increasing its effective strength and diminishing
the tendency of the plies to separate or wrinkle. It is obvious
even to.a non-expert that, if the belting be made very thick,
there is a much greater strain- upon the exterior plies, v'hen
passing around a small pulley, than upon- the inner plies, and
that the effect must be both to unduly strain the exterior
plies, rendering them liable to break, and to wrinkle the inner
ones, subjecting them to the danger of cracking; and that
the ideal belting would be made as thin as would be consistent with the requisite strength and inflexibility. In view of
the fact that previous attempts, of which there appear to have
been several, to make a practical canvas belt had been failures,
and that Gandy had been experimenting with the subject for
several yiars before he discovered that a change was necessary
in the structure of the canva§ itself, we do not thinik his
improvement. is a change in degree only, or such an ,one as
would have occurred to an ordinary mechanic, and our opinion
is that it does involve an exercise of the inventive facultyThe change, is such as -would only have occurred to one
familiar, not alone with the impossibility of making a practical belt out of the ordinary canvas, but to one who had
bestowed considerable thought upon the method of overcoming the difficulty. While some of. the testimony would seem
to indicate that there is no great advantage in this method of

GAND)Y v. MAIN BELTING COMPA-NY.
Opinion of the Court.

construction, we think the fact that it has been largely adopted
by manufacturers and that all the modern improved belting
ordered or made by Gandy and in general use both in this
country and in Europe, is made in this way, is, for the purposes of this case, sufficient evidence of its utility. .Magowan
v. iArew Yol-k- Belting Co., 141 U. S. 332.
(4) We have no doubt upon the subject of infringement.
While, as claime A by the defendant Plummer, there may be as
many plies or individual threads in. the weft of his canvas as
in the warp, the most casual observer of the relative strength
of the warp and the weft cannot fail to notice that the former is much thicker and stouter than the latter- in fact, that
the Gaudy belting and the defendants' in this particular are
identical. The defendant Plummer having adopted Gandy's
idea of making warp touter than his weft, is not in a favorable position to claim that it is useless. Indeed, Plummer appears to have been formerly in business with:Gandy, and was
sent by him to America in 1879 to confer with his solicitor in
reference to his pending application for a patent. Gandy
subsequently decided to start the manufacture of belting in
America, and to give Plummer employment, and for that
purpose took him into his factory in Liverpool, so as to give
him an insight into the business. In 1880 he came to America, was met by Plummer, leased a building for a factory, and
took him into his employ. Plummer seems, however, to ,have
failed to give satisfaction, and Gandy subsequently dismissed
him from his service, whereupon Plummer proceeded to organize a company upon his own account for the manufacture
of the infringing belting. In pursuance of this intention he
states himself that he 'came to Washington, examined the
Gandy patents, and took legal advice with regard to making
a belt which would not infringe them.' He also suggested to
plaintiff the danger of his marking an unpate'nted article with
words importing that it is patented, and called his attention to
Rev. Stat. sec 4901, making this a penal offence.
The language of Mr. Justice Woods, in delivering the opinion of this court in Lehnbeuter v. Holthaus, 105 U. S.94, 96,
is equally pertinent to this branch, of the case: "The .patent is

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Syllabus.

2primcfacie evidence both of novelty and utility, and neithei
of these presumptions has been rebutted by the evidence. On
the contrary, they are strengthened. No anticipation of the
design is shown, although the attempt has been made to prove
anticipation. The fact that it has been infringed by defendants, is sufficient to establish its utility, at least as against
them."
The decree of the Circuit Court is, therefore,
Reversed, and the case 'remandedwith directions to enter an
interlocutory decreefor the plaintif,and for further p2oceedings in conformity with this opinion.

CHICAGO, ROCK ISLAND AND PACIFIC RAILWAY
COMPANY v. DENVER AND RIO GRANDE RAILROAD COMPANY.
DENVER AND RIO GRANDE RAILROAD COMPANY v. CHICAGO, ROCK ISLAND AND PACIFIC
RAILWAY COMPANY.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATf ES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF COLORADO.
Nos. 1095, 1109.

Suqbmitted January 7, 1092.-Decided March 7, 1892.

In the interpretation of any particular clause of a contract, the court is
reqfiired to examine the entire contract, and may also consider the relations of the parties, their connection with the subject matter of the
contract, and the circumstances under which it was made.
The Chicago, Rock Island and Colorado Railway Company contracted with
the Denver and Rio Grande Railroad Company for the use by the former
of the tracks, stations, sidings, switches, etc. of the latter company
between Colorado Springs and Denver, (except its shops at Burnham),
and also for its terminal facilities at Denver, and, having so contracted
made its connections and entered on the enjoyment of its rights under
the contract. Shortly afterwards the Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific
Railway Company was organized and acquired the property and rights
of the Chicago, Rock Island and Colorado Railway and entered into
the enjoyment of them, and its rights were recognized by the Denver
and Rio Grande Railroad Company. The Rock Island and Pacific Company then acquired a right to connect with the Union Pacific Railroad

