LAWRENCE v. NELSON.
Syllabus.

mination in the warrant of removal is only that there is .at
least one count of the indictment upon which Horner may be
tried in Illinois. That is quite sufficient.
The question of the identity of Horner was a question of
fact,' which the United States commissioner had full jurisdiction to decide, for the purpose of removal; and his decision
will not be reviewed on habeas corpus. I
'e Cortes, 136
U. S. 330; Stevens v. Fu"ller, 136 U. S. 468.
The fact that One of the witnesses before the commissioner
stated "that the person now in custody is Edward H. Horner,
of the city of New York," serves only to confirm his identity
with the person charged in the indictment, becaise it is
alleged therein, and particularly in t! e 5th count, that the
circular was deposited in the post office at New York, and
purported to come from the banking-house of Horner in that
city.
The order of the Circuit Court, dismissing the writ of
habeas coipus and remanding the accused, is
Aflrmed.

LAWRENCE v. NkLSON.
APPEAL

FROM

THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 1067. Submitted November 24, 191.- Decided February 29, 1892.
An administrator, appointed in one State, who, after appearing and iaving
judgment rendered against him as such in a suit in equity brought in
another State, the laws of which authorize a foreign administrator to
sue there, files a bill of review in the same court to reverse the decree,
for the reason that, not being an administrator appointed by the courts
of that State, he could not be sued there, is bound by the original judgment against him, if his bill of review is dismissed for want of equity.
The aeneral equity jurisdiction of the Circuit Court of the United States to
administer, as between citizens of different States, the assets of a deceased
person within it- jurisdiction cannot be defeated or impaired by laws of
a State undertaking to give exclusive jurisdiction to its own courts.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

Tmis was a bill in equity, filed September 12, 1889, in the
Circuit Court of' tho United States for the iNorthern District
of Illinois, by William H. N6lson, a citizen of Indiana, and
George M. French, a citizen of Arkansas, against Edward F.
Lawrence, a citizen of Illinois, "as administrator of the estate
of David Ballentine, deceased, and in his own *ight," seeking
to charge him as administrator appointed in Illinois with the
amount of a judgment recovered against hiia in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Arkansas. The material allegations of the bill were as follows:
That on May 10, 1878,David Ballentine died at Hot Springs
in Arkansas, leaving a large real and personal estate, and a
paper purporting to be his last will and testament, which was
soon after admitted to probate, and letters testamentary issued
to an executor named in the will, by the county court of Lake
County in the State of Illinois; that on January 10,1880, that
court set aside the will and probate, and recalled the letters
testamentary, and appointed Edward F. Lawrence "as administrator of the estate of the said David iBallentine, deceased,"
and he forthwith qualified as such, and took possession of the
personal property; that the estate was abundantly solvent,
and that all debts except the plaintiffs' had been paid in full.
That the plaintiffs were partners with David Ballentine in
his lifetime in business at Hot Springs, and on November 27,
1878, brought a suit in equity in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of Arkansas for the.purpose of settling. up the partnership accounts, and of securing
from his estate the moneys justly due them; that in that suit the
executor was duly served with process and entered an appearance, and that when the letters testamentary were recalled
and Lawrence appointed administrator, as above statEla, "the
said Edward F. Lawrence, as administrator as aforesaid, was
duly substituted as defendant in said suit instead of" the executor, "and said Lawrence thereupon duly appeared in said
court and thereafter conducted said suit for said estate ;" that
on July 25, 1882, thatcourt entered a final decree that "Edward F. Lawrence as administrator of David ]Ballentine, deceased," was indebted to the plaintiffs severally in the sum of

LAWRENCE v. NELSON.
Statement of the Case.

$1574.45, with interest, for their several shares of profits of the
partnership received and held by Ballentine before his death,
and should pay the same to them "out of the assets of the
estate of said David Ballentine in his hands remaining to be
administered," with costs; and that the defendant filed a petition for a rehearing, which was overruled on Noyember 30,
1883.
That on January 24, 1884, the defendant, seeking, with the
consent and connivance of the heirs,.to embarrass and defeat
the plaintiff and to avoid the payment of said decree, falsely
and fraudulently represented to the county court of Lake
County- that all debts and claims against the estate had been
paid and the estate had been distributed among the lawful
heirs, and thereby obtained from that court an order declaring
a final settlement of the estate and discharging him as administrator.
That on November 3, 1884, the defendant, '"a administrator of said estate, filed in said United States Circuit Court for
the Eastern District of Arkansas his bill of review against the
plaintiffs, in which said Lawrence set out the decree recbvered
by the plaintiffs against him in said court as aforesaid, and
that the plaintiffs were about to proceed against him for the
recovery of the moneys therein mentioned in the State of Illinois, and in said bill of review prays that, until the mtters in
said bill of review contained could be inquired into, the plaintiffs might be restrained by said court from prosecuting said
decree or proceeding in any manner to collect the moneys
therein mentioned, and that said original decree so recovered
by the plaintiffs might be reviewed and reversed for thi reasons: 1st. That the facts upon which said decree was rendered
were false and contrary to the evidence. 2d. Because said
decree was rendered against said Lawrence'without service of
process upon himor notice to him, or without any opportunity
on his part to make defence thereto. 3d. Because of newly
discovered evidence by said Lawrence in support of the defence to said suit. 4th. Because said Lawrence, being an administrator appointed not by the courts of Arkansas, but by
the courts of Illinois, could not be sued in Arkansas."

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

That the plaintiffs, "as soon as said bill of review was filed
and they received notice thereof, desisted and refrained from
proceeding to collect said decree until the matters in said bill
of review set out could be passed upon by said court, and to
that end they appeared in said court and filed their answer to
said bill of review, and the plaintiffs as expeditiously as possible caused said bill of review to be brought to a hearing, and
upon such hearing, and on or about April 16, 1888, said Circuit Court for the Eastern District of Arkansas dismissed said
bill of review for want of equity, by reason whereof the said
origipal decree so recovered as aforesaid by the, plaintiffs
against said Lawrence remains in full force and effect, and the
plaintiffs are advised that they are entitled to recover from
said ,awrence and said estate the amounts therein decreed to
the plaintiffs, with interest and costs of said suit."
That the plaintiffs did not appear or present their claim in
the Lake County court, nor in any way become parties to its
proceedings, nor receive any notice thereof, or of the defendant's.intention to obtain a final settlement and discharge in
that court, until more than two years after the order had been
entered; and that the defendant "purposely avoided giving
the plaintiffs notice of said intended application, and intentionally suppressed from the plaintiffs the knowledge of the
said settlement and discharge, for the purpose of carrying out
his said fraudulent scheme and purpose to defeat the plaintiffs
in the collection of their 'said debts;" and that the defendant,
while falsely claiming to have paid out and distributed the
estate according to the order of the county court, still retained
in his hands, with the connivance of the heirs and distributees,
sufficient assets to pay and satisfy the decree .obtained by the
plaintiffs against him as aforesaid.
The bill prayed for an account, for payment of the plaintiffs' claim out of the assets of the deceased, or, if he had not
now sufficient assets, but had paid them out since he had
notice qf their suit in the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Eastern District of Arkansas, that he might be adjudged guilty of a devastavit, and be decreed to pay to the
plaintiffs de bonis _2ropriis the sums mentioned in the decree
in that suit, and for further relief.

LAWRENCE v. NELSON.
Statement of the Case.

A demurrer to the bill for want of equity was heard before
Mr. Justice Harlan and the Circuit Judge, and overruled, according to the opinion of the presiding justice. The defendant
elected to stand by his demurrer; and admitted in open court
that at the time of the entry of the decree of July 25, 1882,
he, as administrator appointed in Illinois, had assets in his
hands, after paying all other creditors, sufficient to satisfy that
decree, and had since distributed those-assets among the next
of kin. A final decree was thereupon entered that the defendant pay to each of the plaintiffs the sum of $3136.67 and
costs.
The defendant appealed to this court; and the judges certitified that they were opposed in opinion upon several questions
of law, substantially embodied in the following:
"1st. Whether it. was competent for the administrator of
David Ballentine, appointed under the laws of Illinois, to
appear in the suit brought in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Eastern District of Arkansas by the plaintiffs
herein, and submit himself to the jurisdiction of that court in
respect to the matters involved in that suit ?"
"6th. Whether the decree of July 25, 182, recited in the
bill, is void, simply because it was rendered against an administrator appointed in Illinois, voluntarily appearing therein
and submitting himself to the jurisdiction of the court rendering the decree ?
"7th. Did the decree of the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Eastern District of -Arkansas, rendered July 25,
1882, bind the defendant as the administrator of David Ballentine, deceased, appointed under the laws of Illinois, and the
assets of the estate of said decedent in the State of Illinois in
his hands as administrator, in the sense that the defendant
was bound to pay said decree without farther action against
him or said'estate by the plaintiffs, and, having settled said
estate in and under the order of the county court of Lake
County, Illinois, and obtained his discharge as such administrator from said county court without having paid said decree, is he, the defendant, now liable in this action ?
"8th. Even if the decree of July 25, 1882, aforesaid was

OCTOBER TERMI, 1891.
Argument for Appellant.

not binding in the sense last above mentioned, did the said
,decree become binding, in the sense last above mentioned, by
reason of and upon the rendition of the decree of the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Arkansas on or about April 16, 1888, dismissing the bill of review in
the plaintiffs' bill mentioned?"
1r. Henry A. Gardner and .Mr. Willian ltcFadon, for
appellant
The statue of limitations of Illinois, as to filing claims
against the estate of a dece6ased person, binds a non-resident
creditor. .Morganv. Hamlet, 113 U. S. 449.
It was not competent for the appellant as administrator by
the appointment -f the county court of Lake County, Illinois,
to appear in the suit of appellees, brought in the Circuit Court
of the United States for the Eastern District of Arkansas, and
submit himself to the jurisdiction of that court. Judy v.
KEelly, 11 Illinois, 211; . 0. 50 Am. Dec. 455; M1cGa.vey v.
-Darnall,134 Illinois, 367; Durrie v. Blauvelt, 49 K. J. Law
(20 Vroom) 114; Caidwell v. Harding,5 Blatchford, 501.
The rule is uniform that no action can be maintained against
an administrator, founded on a debt due from.the estate of
the decedent, unless such administrator has been qualified by
a probate tribunal in the state and county where the suit is
brought. Caldwell v. Harding, 5 Blatchford, 501; Vaughan
v. .Northup, 15 Pet. 1 ; 3fellus v. Thompson, 1 Cliff. 125; Kerr
v. -Mo n, 9 Wheat. 565; Peale v. Phivps, 14 How. 368; Judy
v. Kelly, 11 Illinois, 211; S. . 50 Am. Dec. 455; Aspden v.
NYixon, 4 How. 467; Johnson v. Powers, 139 U. S. 159; Low
v. Bartlett, 8 Allen, 259.
Suppose that the appellant had been appointed by proper
legal authority, and by one of the probate courts within the
State of Arkansas, administrator of the estate of David Ballentine, deceased, and the same decree of July 25, 1882, had
been recovered against him in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Eastern District of Arkansas, it is clear that
such decree of July 25, 1882, would have no binding effect

LAWRENCE v: NELSON.
Opinion of the Court.

upon the assets being administered by appellant as administrator under appointment by one of the probate courts of
Illinois, and that such decree rendered by the Circuit Court of
the United States, for the Eastern District of Arkansas would
not have been evidence against appellant as administrator in
Illinois of any debt, and that, notwithstanding such decree
of July 25, 1882, against him as an Arkansas administrator,
the appellees, had they sued in Illinois, must have sued appellant as administrator in the courts- of Illinois, not upon the
said decree, but upon the original cause of action on which
the said decree was recovered.
Now, it being the fact that appellant never was appointed
administrator by any court of Arkansas, can it be logically
contended that the decree of July 25, 1882, rendered against
him in Arkansas, should have any greater force against him
as administrator appointed by and administering the estate
of David Ballentine, deceased, in the county court of Lake
County, Illinois, than the same decree would have had, had he
been properly appointed administrator by the proper court in
Arkansas? It seems to us that the statement of the position
carries with it its own refutation.
The dismissal of the bill of review mentioned in the bill of
complainant on April 16, 1888, could give no greater force to
the decree of July 25, 1882, than it had in the first instance
by reason of its rendition. 2 Daniell, Oh. Pract. §§ 1582, 1585.
.3L-. Henr,.y S. Robbins for appellees.
MR.JUSTICE GRAY, after stating the case as above, defivered

the opinion of the court.
The claim of each appellee being for less than $5000, the'
jurisdiction of this court is limited to the questions of law
presented by the certificate of division of opinion between
the judges of the Circuit Court. Chicago Union, Bank v.
a)?nsc s City Bank, 136 U. S. 223.
The defendant was appointed administrator of David Ballentine's estate in Illinois only. As such administrator, he

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

appeared in and defended the suit brought by these plaintiffs
in the Circuit Court of the United States in Arkansas. By
the final decree in- that suit it was adjudged that he, "as
administrator of David Ballentine, deceased," was indebted
to the plaintiffs in certain sums, and that he pay those sums
to them "out of the assets of the estate of said David Ballentine in his hands remaining to be administered." In that
suit he filed a petition for a rehearing, which was overruled.
The manifest intent and purport of that decree was to
charge him, as administrator appointed in Illinois, with the
payment of the plaintiffs' claims out of the assets in his hands
as such administrator. If this case were before us on appeal
from that decree, it might be doubtful, to say the least,
whether the decree should be affirmed -in view of the general rule that an administrator's power to act, as well as his
duty to account, is linited to the State from whose courts he
derives his authority, and that therefore he cannot sue or be
sued in another State in which he has not been appointed
administrator. Vcaugham v. 2Torthup, 15 Pet. 1; Aspden v.
Nixon, 4 How. 467; Stacy v. Thrasher,6 How. 44; Johnson
v. Powers, 139 U.. S. 156; .Reynolds v. Stockton, 140 U. S.
254, 272; Judy v. Zelly, 11 Illinois, 211 ; McGarvey v. Dar,-all, 134 Illinois, 367.
But the case does not rest there. The statutes of Arkansas
provide that "administrators and executors appointed in any
of the States, Territories or districts of the United States,
under the laws thereof, may sue in any of the courts of this
State, in their representative capacity, to the same and like
effect as if such administrators and executors had been qualified under the laws of this State." Arkansas Digest, 1874,
,§ 4473. In accordance with that statute, the defendant,
within a year after the overruling of his petition for a rehearing, filed a bill of review, alleging that these plaintiffs were
about to proceed against him for the recovery of those sums
in the State of Illinois, and praying for a review and reversal
of that decree for several reasons, one of which was that he,
"being 'an administrator appointed not by the courts of
Arkansas, but by the courts of Illinois, could not be sued in

LAWRENCE v. XELSON.
Opinion of the Court.

Arkansas;" and that bill, upon a hearing, was dismissel for
want of equity.
The decree dismissing the bill of review for want of equity
was a conclusive adjudication upon the merits. The point
that the plaintiff in review, being an administrator appointed
in Illinois only, could not be sued in Arkansas, was apparent
upon the face of the record of the decree sought to be reviewed,
was stated in the bill of review, was necessarily involved in
the decree dismissing that bill, and was thereby conclusively
adjudged against the plaintiff in review, the original defendant. In filing the bill to have the fornier decree set aside
upon the ground that it should not have been rendered against
him as an Illinois administrator, he became himself the actor,
and submitted that question to a court of competent jurisdiction, and its decision upon that question, whether favorable or
adverse to him, was equally conclusive of the matter adjudged. .,yom v. Perin & Gaff Co., 125 U. S. 698; Whiting
v. Bank of Uhited States, 13 Pet. 6 ;'Biddle v. Wilkins, 1
Pet. 686; Jewsbury v. 3furnimery, L. R. 8 C. P. 56.
Whatever doubt may have existed as to the validity of the
former decree, as binding the assets of the deceased in the
hands of the administrator, before the decree upon the 'bill of
review, is removed by the latter decree; and, by the effect
of this decree, the former decree must be treated, for the purposes of -chis case, as a judgment rendered by a Federal court
of competent jurisdiction, and binding the assets of his intestate in his hands, just as if it had been rendered in a Federal
court held.in the State of Illinois.
This being so, the plaintiffs' claim was not barred by the
omission to file it within two years in the county court of
Lake County, according to the statutes of Illinois, or by the
settlement of the estate and the discharge of the administrator
in that court. Illinois Rev. Stat. 1874, c. 3, §§ 60, 70, 111.
Such would seem to be the result of the *decisions in Illinois.
Darlingv. .YoDonald, 101 Illinois, 370; Diversey v. Johnson,
93 Illinois, 547. But, however that may be, the general
equity jurisdiction of the Circuit Court of the United States
to administer, as between citizens of different States, the

OCTOBER TERMI, 1891.
Sylabus.

assets of a deceased person within its jurisdiction cannot be
defeated or impaired by laws of a State undertaking to give
exclusive jurisdiction to its own courts. Green v. Creighton,.
23 How. 90; Payne v. Hook, 7" Wall. 425. In 3f.organ v.
Hamlet, 113 U. 9. 449, cited by the appellant, the state
statute in question was a mere statute of limitations, clearly
applicable to suits in the Circuit Court of the United States,
held within the State. Michigan Insurance Bank v. Eldred,
130 U. S. 693; 696.
The eighth question certified must therefore be answered in
the affirmative, and this renders it unnecessary to give a definite
-'answer to any of the other questions.
Decree affirmed.

HAMMOND v. HOPKINS.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT -OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
No. 62. Argued November 11, 12, 1891..-Decided February 29, 1892.

A court of equity will not aid a party wlose application is destitute of conscience, good faith and reasonable diligence, but will discourage stale
demands, for the'peace of society, by refusing to interfere where there
has been gross lacies in prosecuting rights, or where long acquiescence
in the assertion of adverse rights has occurred; and in these respects each
case must be governed by its own circumstances.
A purchase by a trustee of trust property, for his own benefit, is not absolutely void, but voidable; and it may be confirmed by the parties interested,
either directly, or by long acquiescence, or by the absence of an election
to avoid the conveyance within a reasonable time after the facts come to
the knowledge of the cestui que trust.
Two partners owned real estate in common, some of which was used in the
partnership business. One died making the other by his will a trustee
for the testator's children, with power of sale of all the real estate, and
directing that the business be carried on. After carrying on the business for some time the trustee sold the real estate, by auction, and
bought portions of it in through a third person, and accounted for the
half of the net proceeds. This transaction was open, and was known to all
the cestuis que trustent, and was objected to by none of them. .fel,
That there was nothing in all this to indicate fraud.

