HOYT v. LATHAM.
Statement of the Case.

HOYT v. LATHAIM.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR THE

DISTRICT OF MINNESOTA.
No. 173. Argued January 28, 29, 1892.-

Decided February 29, 1892.

While it is true that a trustee cannot legally purchase on his own account
that which his duty requires him-to sell on account of his cestui que trust,
nor purchase on account of the cestui que trust that which he sells on his
own account, and that the cestui que trust may avoid such a sale even
though made without fraud, and without injury to his interests, yet it is
also true that such a transaction is not absolutely void in the sense that
the purchaser takes no title, and that it may be ratified and affirmed by
the cestul que trust, either directly or by acquiescence and silent approval; and, in such case, when he has ample notice of the facts, and
waits before taking action to set the sale aside until he can see whether
the transaction is like to prove a profitable speculation, he is guilty of
laches, which amount to a ratification and approval.
Hammond v. Hopkins, ante, 224, cited and followed.

THE court stated the case as follows:
This was a bill filed by William H. and Edward P. Latham,
who are heirs and owners of two-ninths of the estate of their
brother Charles F. Latham, against Ashbel H. Barney and his
associates to compel an accounting for the proceeds of the
sale of an undivided one thirty-seventh interest in certain
lands belonging to the estate of the said Latham, and for a
decree adjudging the plaintiffs to-.be the owners of two-ninths
of his interest in the unsold lands, and for a conveyance of the
same. The suit arose upon the following state of facts:
On the 31st' day of October, 1867, a contract was executed
between Alfred M. Hoyt, Danford N. Barney, Ashbel H. Barney, Charles F. Latnam and five other. associates, of the first
part, and the Winona and St. Peter Railroad Company of the
second part, by which, after reciting that the parties of the
first part had loaned and advanced to the corporation large
sums of money, and had constructed and equipped 105 miles
of its railroad in Minnesota, whereby the corporation had

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

become indebted to them in a large sum of money, it was provided that certain payments should be made upon that indebtedness by the issue to them of stock and bonds, and that a
portion of a Congressional land grant owned by the railroad
company should be conveyed in satisfaction of the residue.
The land so to be conveyed was as many acres theretofore
granted by Congress as the corporation should receive by
reason of the construction of such road for a distance of 105
miles westerly from Winona, reserving the right-of way and
depot grounds. The lands were t6 be conveyed to the parties
of the first part, as they should direct, whenever, and as soon
as, the railroad company had obtained title thereto under the
acts of Congress. Instead of taking a conveyance of the lands
the parties interested elected to take the proceeds of their
sales, as they were permitted by the contract to do, and therefore, as they were sold by the railroad coffipany, the proceeds
were from time to time paid over to them. The number of
acres to which the company was entitled was'ascertained by
judicial decree to be 514,266 and a fraction.
Charles F. Latham, one of the parties to this contract, and
entitled to one thirty-seventh of these lands or their proceeds,
died intestate, August 25, 1870, leaving as his only heirs or
next of kin nine brothers and sisteks, and the children of a
deceased sister; and, up to the execution of the agreement
hereinafter referred to, his share of such proceeds was deposited in bank to the credit of his estate. One of his sisters had
received her share of his estate in advance, and it is conceded
that the estate vested in 'eight brothers and sisters and the
children of the deceased sister, each being entitled to an un-:
divided one-ninth of his one thirty-seventh interest. Thie
plaintiffs are two of the brothers, and each became entitled
at his death to a one-ninth interest. No legal proceedings
were taken for the settlement and distribution of his estate;
no administrator was ever appointed, but in accordance with
a wish expressed shortly before his death, and for the purpose
of saving the expenses of administration, the defendant Ashhel
H. Barney took possession of the assets of the estate, and proceeded to distribute them. The estate, exclusive of the inter-

HOYT v. LATHAM.
Statement of the Case.

est in the land grant, amounted to $177,962.48, and was
substantially all personal property. The defendant Barney
held an interest of his own in the land grant, as one of the
parties who contracted with the railroad company. Shortly
after the death of Mr. Latham, two of his sisters and their
husbands orally assented to a sale by the defendant Barney of
the interest of the estate in the land contract, for the sum of
$10,000, he at that time advising them that it was worth no
more.
It does not appear that any of the other heirs were consulted as to this disposition of the interest in the land. Some
time prior to the 9th of September, 1871, the defendant
Barney entered into an agreement to sell the interest of the
estate in these lands for $10,000 to the eight persons, who, with
Latham, had by such contract purchased the same from the
railroad company, Mr. Barney himself being one of such persons.
At or about this time the defendant Barney caused to be
prepared a statement of account between himself and the
estate, and a release to be signed by each of the heirs. One
copy of this statement was prepared for each of the heirs, and
one for Mr. Barney, and they were all sent together to each
heir to be signed, and after they were signed, one executed
copy was sent to each. One of the copies of this statement
and release differed from the others in one particular, hereinafter stated, and all but that one read as follows:
"Whereas Charles F. Latham, late of Irvington, county of
Westchester, and State of New York, died intestate, leaving a
considerable estate, consisting of personal property, to be distributed among his next of kin, the said Latham having
survived his wife and parents and leaving no children or representatives of a child;
"And whereas the next of kin of said Latham entitled to
participate'in the distribution of said estate, for lhe purpose
of saving the delay and expense incident to legal proceedings
to effect such distribution, have agreed among themselves as
to the division of said estate, and the amount going to and
receivable by each of the said next of kin, whether in money,
stock, bonds or other property;

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.

556

Statement of the Case.

"And whereas the persons entitled to participate in such
distribution and who have agreed upon the same, are the
following."
Here follow the names and residences of the next of kin, a
recital of the advancement to one of the sisters, and a release
by her of her interest in the estate to her brothers and sisters;
r~leases by each of the heirs -to the others of all claim and
demand against the estate; a recital that Barney had in his
possession certain of the assets and property of the deceased,
which he had surrendered and delivered to the next of kin;
and an agreement "that the. said F irties hereto, in consideration of the premises and of the-surrender and delivery to the
said next of kin of the aforesaid property and assets, have and
each of them hath released . . . and each of them do
and forever discharge the said Ashbel H.
Barney
of and from all claims, demands, actions
and causes of action on account of the said assets and property
of the said Charles F. Latham so in his possession or under his
control. In witness whereof," etc.
This was sighfed by all of the heirs, including the plaintiffs,
and a schedule was attached "showing the estate of which the
late Charles F. Latham died possessed, and the disfribution
among the next of kin, in the foregoing agreement mentioned." This estate consisted almost wholly of cash, shares
in corporations, bonds and coupons, and other personal
property, with the following exception: " In t.in W. & St. P.
lands, estimated $10,000." Of the eleven releases the one
sent to Edward P. Latham accidentally differed from the
others in using, instead of the words above bited, the words,
"Interest in W. & St. P. land sales, say $10,000.". About
January 1, 1872, defendant Barney eiclosed to each distributee, with the release and a supplemental statement of the
assets, not material here, a check for his or her share of the
estate, which was received and retained by each.
Plaintiffs in December, 1876, brought this action upon the
ground that the foregoing proceedings and the release executed by them did not divest them of their interest in the
lands. The Circuit Court rendered a decree in favor of the
*

.

.release,

HOYT v. LATHAM.
Argument for Appellees.

plaintiffs, in accordance with the prayer of their bill, both for
a money recovery and for an account of the proceeds of such
lands as should be subsequently sold. 4 McCrary, 587. From
this decree an.appeal was taken to this court.
3-r. Thomaes Wilson (with whom was 2Ir. -loyd W. Bowers
on the biief) for appellants.
3Dr. C. K Davis (with whom was -Mr. Owen 3forris on the
brief) for appellees.
There is no conflict of testimony on any material point.
The opinion of the Circuit Court disposes of all the assignments of error upon grounds which we insist are unassailable.
It is based upon the decision of this court in 3Michoud v. Girod,
4 1ow. 503. That decision settles the law and equity of this
case so clearly that there is little necessity for comment, and
no necessity for the citation of cumulative authorities.
Mr. Barney should be held to duties and disabilities of an
executor in this transaction. He was an executor de son tort.
2 B1. Com. 507; Schouler on Executors, § 184.
Had Mr. Barney attempted to acquire this property in the
manner the Girods adopted, 4s stated in Eichoud v. Girod,
at public sale, judicially ordered, the title thus acquired would
have been set aside. The method he pursued was more reprehensible. It made him a trustee and imposed upon him the
extreme obligatioi and disabilities prescribed in .micloud v.
Girod. See Bothwell v. Dewees, 2 Black, 613; G(rafam'v.
Burgess, 117 'U.S. 180, 192.
To the contention that the complainants should have returned the money that they had received before bringing this
action, there are seyeral answers. No such ground of defence
is assumed by the appellants. They deny entirely the right of
the Lathams, and insist that by a perfect and complete transaction, .they have in equity parted with all interest in these
lands. In case of such a denial of right, a tender is not necessary, but the amount Jeceived by the complainants will be
taken into account at the hearing and provided for in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

decree; and this was done in this case. Potter v. Taggart, 54
Wisconsin, 395; Baumann v. Pinckney, 118 N. Y. 604.
The complainants have not ratified this contract by acquiescing in it, or by any act of confirmation. Their requests of Mr.
Barney for a settlement and all of their negotiations with him,
futile as they were, were based upon a distinct assertion of the
invalidity of the transactions as to the lands.
M .JusTICE BRowN delivered the opinion of the court.
This case depends upon the validity of the sale made by*the
defendant Barney to himself and his associates of the interest
of Charles F. Latham in the lands granted in aid of the construction 9f the Winona and St. Peter Railroad Company, and
the binding, effect of the releases executed by the plaintiffs and
the other heirs of Latham. This sale is attacked upon the
ground that it was made by Barney, as trustee for the heirs,
to himself and his cocontractors in the construction of the
road, and for a grossly inadequate price.
It seems that a few days before the death of Mr. Latham he
had an interview with the defendant Barney, in whom he had
perfect confidence, and requested him to make a distribution of
a part of his property to certain beneficiaries, and to divide the
residue among his brothers and sisters and their children. In
the early part of 1-871, Danford N. Barney, of New York, a
member of the syndicate which had constructed the road, and
Judge Kelly, of Cleveland, each of whom had married a sister
of Latham, met with their wives at Irvington, N.Y., called in
the defendant Ashbel H..Barney, and requested him to make
a distribution of the estate for the purpose of saving time and
expenses. The value of Latham's interest in the land grant
was the principal 'subject of discussion. To quote Barney's
own words: "I stated to them that it was very difficult, indeed, to fix an accurate value for that property; there were
so many contingencies that might affect its value. They
seemed to be very anxious, indeed, as -to making a settlement
without the intervention of the probate court. . . . They
asked me to say what I thought it was worth, not stating the

HOYT v. LATHAM.
Opinion of the Court.

facts, as I generally understood them at the time. I stated to
them that I thought the property ought to be worth $10,000;
that if we got all the land that was due to us it would be worth
perhaps more than that, but with the uncertainty of getting
what we hoped to get that I considered that a fair price for
the property, and they all agreed to accept of that, and desired me to make a division of the estate accordifigly, which I
did." Shortly after this he offered the property to Mr. Sykes,
vice-president of the Chicago & Northwestern Railroad, at
that price, knowing that he was familiar with the Value of
the property, but he would not consent to take it. He then,
offered it to his cocontractors, but they did not at first care
to take it. "I said to them it was very important to make
this sale, and they said they did not care to have a stranger
come in who might not agree with us in the enterprise might not furnish money for the construction of the road and various other objections were brought up; and then Mr.
Fargo and Mr. Cheney said: 'If you think the property is
worth it we will take it.'

.

.

.

There was not a man but

what objected to taking it at first, except my brother, who
knew all about it." With reference to its value, he states as his
opinion, and there is nothing in the case to contradict it, "that
it could not have been sold to any other party, and I think
the interest was taken as a matter of convenience, so as not to
bring in any additional new element in the business, and not
for any profit out of this particular transaction." There were,
it seems, several circumstances which tended materially to impair the value of the land, and in fact to render it at that time
,unsalable. The Transit Railroad Company, to whose franchise
and property the Winona and St. Peter Railroad Company succeeded, had received a loan of the credit of the State to the
amount of $500,000 or over, for which it had given its bonds,
secured by a mortgage' upon its lands and franchises; and it
was claimed that these lands were liable for this debt, and at
the time of these negotiations this question was pending in
the Circuit Court for the District of Minnesota and was subsequently settled in this 6ourt. fofkins v. St. Paul & Pacific
Railroad,2 Dillon, 396; CharnberlaiA v. St. Paul4 & Sioux.

OOTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

City .Ralroad,92 U. S. 299.

.There were also certain disputes

with regard to the title to these lands and to their taxation,
which afterwaids culminated in a protracted litigation, the
pendency of which for a long time seriously impaired the market value of the property.
Acting in pursuance of the. authority given at the meeting
in Irvington, Barney prepared a form of release and schedule
of the assets, which consisted almost. entirely of stocks, bonds
and coupons, and included the item of $10,000 for the interest
in these lands, the assets amounting in all to $187,962.48.
Eleven copies were sent to each of the heirs for their signatures, and were subsequently returned to him, and one copy
sent to each with a check for his share of the estate, which
was received and retained by each without objection. The
copy sent to Edward P. Latham differed from the others in
using, instead of the words " I n t. in W. &'St. P. lands, estimated, $10,000," the words "Interest in W. & St. P. land
sales, say $10,000."
So far as Edward P. Latham was concerned, the transaction
was closed on January 10, 1872, by Barney sending him his
copy of the release and schedule, with a supplementary statement and a draft of $9480.89 to close the account. A similar
statement was sent to William H. Latham with a check for
$13,993.39. No objection was made to this until August 26,
of the same year, when Edward P. Latham wrote Barney
briefly, calling his attention to the item of $10,000 for interest
in W. & St. P. land sales, and saving that he understood this
as the sales made up to that date as Made by the company in
the usual sales, and by no means the sales of all lands not yet'
sold; to which Mr. Barney replied, under date of September
11, that Judge Kelly fully understood, when the settlement
was made, that it included the payment in full of the heirs'
interest in the Winona lands,'and that it was fully so stated
in the release. "The legislature will, no doubt, this winter
order the ]and§ to be "opened for taxation. .
.
Taxation
would make them valueless, almost..
There has been
no transfer, and I know they" (the purchasers) "don't care
for it, and I certainly do not, neither does D. N. We would

HOYT v. LATHAM.
Opinion of the Court.

both like to sell out, as our interest in the grant is but little
value to us except in the good will we may have for our
grandchildren." He closed his letter with an offer to surrender to 'the heirs their entire interest in the lands upon being
refunded the $10,000 already divided, and with a request for
a decision at once, "as it should not remain an open question."
To this Latham replied under date of November 19, saying
that, after consultation wifl some of the heirs, he had decided,
with their advice and cobperation, to accept the offer. "You
part
may, therefore," said he, "from this date, consider the
interest" (meaning I part) "of the lands in question mine
and proceed to make the necessary legal transfer. The money,
$10,000, will be ready at an early date." Barney replied
under date of November 30, expressing his pleasure that the
heirs had concluded to take the interests in the lands to themselves, and saying that it could not be sold to other parties
than those now owning 36 of the interest. "Should they
buy it they might be charged with misrepresentation should
the purchase prove profitable. Should it not prove a good
investment for the heirs, none will be able to say that they
'went in blind.'" To this Latham replied,, under date of
December 26, saying that-he supposed the moneys accrued
upon sales made since the division and estimate will be deducted from the $10,000; asking the .amount to be refunded,
and saying' tat he had it in his hands, and would forward it
as soon as the parties could come to an understanding of how
and when the transfer should be made. Barney replied, January 2, 1873,'that the parties had no title to the lands, the title
being in the railroad company, and suggesting that he make
a contract for the purchase from each individual heir, and saying that since the division of the estate $1265.38 had been collected. Again he wrote him on January 13, saying that he
was not in a position to give him title to any interest in the
lands owing to the fact that it was still in the railroad company, and suggesting" as follows : "I see no way for you to
get an interest in the property other than your legal share,
except by contraUt with each heir, and then file said contract
with me, and I will make the distribution of the proceeds of
VOL. oxLm-36

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

the sales the same as I do all others holding the original interest." The affair remained in this condition for more than two
years, when Barney, being informed that all objections to the
sale had been withdrawn, remitted him, under date of April
16, 18[5, a final statement with explanations and a check for
$298.33 to close the estate. This check was acknowledged
and retained, though he declined to give a receipt. No further correspondence passed between these parties, until December of that year.
In the meantime, however, and on January 30, 1873, Williagi H. Latham wrote to Mr. Barney that he had been in
communication with his brother Edward; had seen Mr' Barney's last letters to him, and was glad he was willing to give
up to him, and such others of the heirs as desired their share
of the proceeds of these sales, upon being reimbursed the
$10,000 paid, and saying that six, if not more, of the heirs were
willing to make this arrangement, and that if he had known.
anything whatever of these lands he would have been unwilling to sign away his interest for one-ninth of $10,000. This
letter was partly, at least, in reply to Mr. Barney's letter
to Mr. Edward P. Latham of January 13. To this Barney
replied, under date of February 10, protesting that the .parties had no title to the lands, and offering to make a distribution of all the money in his hands for lands sold since the date
of the final distribution, upon being refunded the $10,000, and
offering to continue to make such distribution as long as he
continued to be the agent of the party now having an interest
in the proceeds of the lands. Again he wrote him under date
of April 4, saying that the $10,000 had been promised last
December by his brother Edward, and that it was due to the
parties that advanced it that it should be at once refunded.
Receiving no answer to this,'he wrote him again, May 13, to
the same effect, saying that there were important suits being
threatened, which, if successful, would take from them a portion of the lands, and saying that the purchasers were perfectly
willing that the heirs should have their interest returned to
them, provided a decision were made, "within say thirty days.
from this date; but they are not willing to pay for the prop-

HOYT

. LATHAM.

Opinion of the Court.

ercy and have you hold the right at any future time to elect
to return the money for the purchase and take the interest.
They have now held the matter open for six months." To
this Latham replied, May 19, by a somewhat evasive letter,
saying that he had been ready to pay his proportion; but, as
Barney required the assent of all the heirs before relinquishing the lands as a whole or any portion, he had dismissed the
whole thing from his mind as impracticable. He closed by
saying that perhaps his brother had acted hastily and injudiciously, and he had written and urged 'him to immediate
decisive action.
On June 19, 31r. Barney wrote again, protesting that none
of the parties desired to make a great bargain out of the
estate; that the settlement was made to avoid expense; that
the time had passed which he had named for the heirs to avail
themselves of the privilege of taking their proportion of the
lands; but, that there might be no cause for complaint, he
would again open the matter for a thirty days' option for one
or all of the heirs. "If," says he, "the heirs do not take the
interest I am compelled under my agreement to become one
of the purchasers; that being the case I wish to rid myself of
the ugly position of being a seller and a purchaser. I would
not for thrice the value of the property have the ill will of
the heirs."
It seems that at this time a controversy had arisen between
the Winona and St. Peter Railroad Company and the St. Paul
and Sioux City Railroad, which was pending before the Secetary of the Interior, and had been decided alternatively in
favor of each party, and was subsequently carried into the
courts. There was also a claim pending in favor of one Drake
for a three-eighths interest in all the stock, lands and other
property of the defendant; and another by one Kirk, who
claimed one-fourth of the property, franchises, stock and
profits of tht defendants, which culminated in a suit in the
following October.
The State had also made a claim for taxes upon these lands,
and it was then believed that these taxes, if enforced, would
render them nearly valueless.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

No reply was made to Barney's letter of June 19, 1873, and
all correspondence between these parties with respect to these
lands ceased for a time, although during the year 1874 a number
of friendly letters were exchanged between W. H. Latham and
himself with reference to some United States Express stock,
but no allusion was made to the lands. On February 15,
1875, Mr. Barney remitted William H. Latham a statement
and check for 8)98.34 due him as heir of the estate.
On March 27 Latham reopened the correspondence by stating his reluctance to give up his interest in the lands, having
never been fully informed as to their status, and desiring to
know howt many acres they were entitled to, and how many
had -been sold, etc. To this Mr. Barney replied, calling his
attention to the offer be had made, and asking him if he were
not satisfied, to let him know what he desired, and saying
that the Drake suit would be tried in June, and that the tax
suits would probably be decided against them. On April 26
he wrote him a very full letter, saying that he had given the
heirs the option to take their proportion of the proceeds of the
land, and three times extended this option, and continued
the same until September, 1873, "when my brother said he
tad talked with you about it, and you were satisfied," and
gvtmg considerable information with regard to the number
of "acres claimed by them, the number sold, and probabilities
with respect to the pending suits, etc. To this Mr. Latham
replied in a short note, April 29, acknowledging receipt of a
statement and check enclosed in his letter, and saying that
the whole matter appeared satisfactory as far as'a 'cursory
examination would indicate. "I am obliged to you for the
evident effort made to satisfy me and will write more fully in
a few days." On the same day Mr. Barney wrote him from
New York, saying that the decision of the full bench on the
question'of taxation had been adverse; that the suit had been
promoted by his brother, and that $40,000 a year would not
pay their taxes.
No other correspondence took place until December 17, 1875,
when the plaintiffs wrote a joint letter, saying that each of
them would pay one-ninth of the $10,000, "paid by yourself,

HOYT "v. LATHAM.
Opinion of the Court.

directly or indirectly, for proceeds of sales of lands made since
January 1, 1872, or for receipts of sales made anterior to that
date." Owing apparently to the pressure of business engagements, Barney did not reply to this until March 1, 1876,

wherein he rehearsed at length what had been done, land protested that it would not be fair, after having taken all the risk
of making the property valuable, for the plaintiffs to demand
their proportion back again, "now that we have been in the
main successful."
He closed by declining to comply with
their request for the two-ninths interest in the lands.
In
reply, Mr. Latham wrote him, March 23, a long letter stating
his reasons why he should not be bound by what had been
done, and renewing his proposal to take his interest and pay
the corresponding proportion of the $10,000.
This letter is
certainly a very cogent statement of the position from his stand-'
point. To this and another letter, not produced, Barney replied under date of April 24, presenting also a full statement
of facts, urging the injustice of his claim, and offering still to
give him and his brother two-ninths of one thirty-seventh interest in the Winona and St. Peter Land Company, formed by
the former associates, who took the same proportional interests in the new company they held before it was organized,
for two-ninths of $10,000. (This company was organized in
1876 by the defendant "Barney and his associates, and -had
taken the title to all these lands from the railroad company.)
This offer was declined by Mr. Latham, and the correspondence was closed by a letter of Mr. Barney, August 1, 1876,
saying that he would have transferred to the plaintiffs onenintli of one thirty-seventh of the stock of the new land company, carrying dividends from its organization for all receipts
for lands sold and to be sold since its organization. "The
difference between what you ask and my offer would not pay
the lawyers' fees for prosecuting or defending. a suit brought
to seek what you ask for."
This entire correspondence, which is very voluminous, was
characterized by the most courteous language; with an evident desire on the part of each to take no unfair advantage of
the other, but with a failure to agree upon what, under the

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

circumstances, justice and equity demanded. It really constitutes in itself nearly all the facts pertinent to the case. , It
certainly exhibits on the part of Mr. Barney a desire to deal
fairly with the plaintiffs, and a 'vacillation on their part,
which has a strong tendency to show that before making
up their minds to accept his offer to refund the $10,000, and
take the proceeds of the sales of the lands, they intended to
wait and see whether it would prove a successful spebulation.
We have no desire to weaken or qualify in any way the
wholesome doctrine laid down by this court in the case of
.fickoud v. Girod, 4 How. 503, that a trustee cannot legally
purchase on his own account that which his duty requires him
to sell on account of another, nor purchase on account of another that which he sells upon his own account-in other
words, he cannot unite the two opposite characters of buyer
and seller. So jealous is the law of dealings of this character
by persons holding confidential relations to each other, that
the cestui que trust may avoid the transaction, even though
the sale was without fraud, the property sold for its full value,
and no actual injury to his interests be proven. It does not
follow, however, that the sale is absolutely void in the sense
that the purchaser takes no title, which he can convey to a
third person - a bona fide purchaser without notice; nor that
the cestui que trust may not, upon notice of all the facts, ratify
and affirm the sale by his acquiescence or silent, approval.
Thus in .farsh v. Witmore, 21 Wall. 178, 183, 184, where an
attorney sold bonds of a client at a public sale, and bought
them in himself, at their full value at the time, and the client
was aware of the purchase and acquiesced in it for twelve
Tears, it was held to be too late for him to attempt to impeach
the validity of the sale. "Most undoubtedly," said: the court,
"that sale was voidable. The character of vendor and that
of purchaser cannot be held by the same person. Ttfey impose different obligations. Their union in the same person
would -at once raise a conflict between interest and duty, and,
coistituted as humanity is, in the majority of cases duty
would be overborne in the struggle.

The complainant

could have treated the purchase made by the defendant as a

HOYT v. LATHAMf.
Opinion of the Court.

nullity.

.

.

.

But unfortunately for him there is more in

the case. He has adopted and approved of the transaction.
.

.

.

Had he at once denied the validity of the transaction,

of by any declaration or proceeding indicated dissatisfaction
with it, or even refrained from expressions of approval, he
would have stood in a court-of equity in a very different position."
So in Twin, ick Oil Comyan2y V. .farbury, 91 U. S. 587, it
is said that the right of a corporatiQn to avoid the sale of its
property by reason of the fiduciary relations of the purchaser
must be exercised within a reasonable time after the facts connected therewith are made known, or can by due diligence be
ascertained, and that the determination of what is such reasonabl6 time must be arrived at by a consideration of all the
elements which affect that question.
In Haywardv. National Bank, 96 U. S. 611, a bank sold
collaterals to three of its own directors, and applied the proceeds to the payment of a loan. The debtor, who was advised
of the sale, and that enough had been realized to pay his indebtedness, made no objection; but nearly four years after the
sale, the stocks having in the meantime greatly increased in
value, notified the bank of his desire and purpose to redeem
them; but on his subsequently filing a bill for that purpose, he
was held not entitled to relief. To the same effect are G('ymes
v. Banders, 93 U. S. 55, 62; Pence v. .1angdon, 99 U. S. 578,
581; acwkali v. C"aRiear,137 U. S. 556, 566. In cases of actual
fraud or of want of knowledge of the facts, the law is very
tolerant of delay; but where the circumstances of the case
negative this idea, and the transaction is sought to be impeached only by reason of the confidential relations between
the parties, and the cestuis que tust have ample notice of the
facts, they ought not to wait and make their action in setting
aside the sale dependent upon the question whether it is likely
to prove a profitable speculation. As the question whether
the sale should be vacated or not depends upon the facts as
they existed at the time of the sale, so in taking proceedings
to avoid such sale, the plaintiff should act upon his information as to such fact, and not delay for the purpose of ascer-

OCTOBER TER-M, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

taining whether he is likely to be benefited by a rise in the
property, since that would practically amount to throwing
upon the purchaser any losses he might sustain by a fall, and
denying him the benefit of a possible rise. Rammon8 v.
Hopkins ante, 224.
This is not an ordinary case of a trustee buying the property
of his cestui que trust for the purpose of gain. The deceased
was associated with eight others in the construction of a railroad; they were to be paid in,part, at feast, by these lands or
their proceeds. At Latham's death he left a large amount of
property, of which his interesf in these lands was but a small
fraction, estimated at about one-eighteenth. At his request
and that of two of the heirs, the defendant Barney undertook
the settlement of the estate for the purpose of saving the ex-.
pense of administration. Had Latham been alive and desirous
of disposing of his interest in these lands, his first thought
would have been to offer such interest to his associates, who,
already owning thirty-six thirty-sevenths, could well afford to
buy: this trifling interest, and, naturally desiring to prevent a
stranger from entering the syndicate, would be likely to pay
as much or more for it than any one else. Failing to find a
purchaser in Mr. Sykes, Barney offered it to the syndicate.
He could not himself have expected to realize much by the
transaction, since his interest was only an eighth of the whole
purchase, which was itself only one thirty-seventh of the entire
grant. There was no attempt on his part to conceal the real
transaction, or to disguise the fact that he was one of the purchasers. By making the sale he was enabled to effect a distribution of the estate without delay. This he pr6ceeded to do
by sending to each heir a statement of his account and a check
for his or her share of the proceeds, demanding at the same
time a release from further liability..
Apparently so little was thought of this interest in the lands
that the release itself spoke only of "personal property, to be
divided among his next of kin,

.

.

.

whether in money,

bonds, stock or other property." In short, his interest in
these lands was treated as a mere incident to the personal estate, and unworthy of a separate consideration. It was

HOYT v. LATHAX.
Opinion of the Court.

thought, and properly so, that it should be disposed of at once
in order to secure a speedy settlement of the estate- if put up
at auction, it would probably have proven unsalable.
There is absolutely nothing tending to show fraud or bad
faith on the part of the defendant Barney; indeed, we are not
satisfied that this not was the most prudent disposition to make
of this interest, in view of the uncertainty regarding the title
and value of this property. XVhile the law pronounces a sale
of this kind voidable at the electiofi of the- eedsli qni trust,
there was every reason for demanding prompt - ctioh "on
their part in disaffirming it. Barney himself recognized the
right of the plaintiffs to set aside the sale; gave them apparently a satisfactory statement of the facts, requesting only
that a decision shold be -made at once, as it should not remain
an open question. (September 11, 1872.) Nothing decisive
having been done, he wrote V. H. Latham again, May 13,
1873, giving him the option of rescinding the sale if action
were taken. within thirty days, Which was again extended by
his letter of June 19. Nothing was done for nearly two years,
when Latham reopened the correspondence by asking further
particulars. Another correspondence of a year then ensued,
the property in the meantime apparently having come into
the market and largely increased in value. In view of the
'lapse of time, the organization of a new company and the
change of circumstances, Mr. Barney was apparently unwilling to renew his first proposition, but submitted a new one, or
rather a modification of the first, which the plaintiffs declined
to consider, and in December, 1876; filed this bill. In the
meantime Danford N. Barney and Judge Kelly, the two most
material witnesses, who acted for the other heirs and advised
the sale, have both died, and the parties have lost the benefit
of their testimony.
Under the circumstances, we think the plaintiffs should
have taken immediate action; they were fully informed of
the facts of the transaction, or at least they were informed of
enough to put upon them the necessty.for further inquiry,
and they must have known that delay, jen for a year or two,
might work a very great change in the value of their brother's

570

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Syllabus.

interest. If the syndicate were successful in their litigation
with respect to, these lands, they would undoubtedly largely
increase in value; upon the other hand, if they were unsuccessful, the interest might be comparatively worthless. No
explanation is given for their delay, and none is suggested
except an apparent intention to wait and see what the value
of these lands was likely to become, and whether it would
prove more profitable to set aside the sale or let it stand.
While the delay in this case was not a long one, measured
simply by the time which elapsed after the sale was made, we
think, under the circumstances, it amounted to a ratification
of such sale, and that the bill should have been dismissed.
The decree of the court below is therefore
Reversed, and the vase .emanded with directions to disrdss
the bili with costs.
MR. JUSTICE FIELD

MR. JUSTICE

dissented.

did not sit upon the argument of this
case, and took no part in its decision.
BREwER

HORNER v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL

FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT

No. 2.

OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 1473. Argued January 13, 14, 1892.-Decided March 7, 1892.

On a complaint before a United States commissioner in New York, against
H. for a criminal offence, in violation of § 3894 of the Revised Statutes,
as amended by the act of September 19, 1890; c. 908, (26 Stat. 465,) prohibiting the sending by mail of circulars concerning lotteries, H. was
committed to await the action of the grand jury. A -writ of habeas
corpus issued by the Circuit Court of the United States was dismissed by
that court. H. appealed to this court in November, 1891. Held,
(1) As the constitutionality of § 3894, as amended, was drawn in question, an appeal lay directly to this court from the Circuit Court,
under § 5 of the act of March 3, 1891, c. 517, (26 Stat. 826 to 828,
-

1115;)

