OCTOBER TERM, 1976
q

ILLINOIS BRICK CO.

TT.
,,.AQ1

I-PEI +

ET AL.

v. ILLINOIS

Q

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT

No. 76-404. Argued March 23, 1977-Decided June 9, 1977
Respondents, the State of Illinois and 700 local governmental entities,
brought this antitrust treble-damages action under § 4 of the Clayton
Act alleging that petitioners, concrete block manufacturers (which sell
to masonry contractors, which in turn sell to general contractors, from
which respondents purchase the block in the form of masonry structures) had engaged in a price-fixing conspiracy in violation of § 1 of the
Sherman Act. Petitioners, relying on Hanover Shoe, Inc. v United
Shoe Machinery Corp., 392 U. S. 481, moved for partial summary
judgment against all plaintiffs that were indirect purchasers of block
from petitioners, contending that only direct purchasers could sue for
the alleged overcharge. The District Court granted the motion, but the
Court of Appeals reversed, holding that indirect purchasers such as
respondents could recover treble damages for an illegal overcharge if
they could prove that the overcharge was passed on to them through the
intermediate distribution channels. Hanover Shoe held that generally
the illegally overcharged direct purchaser suing for treble damages, and
not others in the chain of manufacture or distribution, is the party
"injured in Ins business or property" within the meaning of § 4. Held.
1. If a pass-on theory may not be used defensively by an antitrust
violator (defendant) against a direct purchaser (plaintiff) that theory
may not be used offensively by an indirect purchaser (plaintiff) against
an alleged violator (defendant). Therefore, unless Hanover Shoe is to
be overruled or limited, it bars respondents' pass-on theory Pp. 729736.
(a) Allowing offensive but not defensive use of pass-on would
create a serious risk of multiple liability for defendants, since even
though an indirect purchaser had already recovered for all or part of
an overcharge passed on to him, the direct purchaser would still automatically recover the full amount of the overcharge that the indirect
purchaser had shown to be passed on, and, similarly, following an automatic recovery of the full overcharge by the direct purchaser, the
indirect purchaser could sue to recover the same amount. Overlapping
recoveries would certainly result from the two lawsuits unless the
indirect purchaser is unable to establish any pass-on whatsoever. Pp.
730-731.

ILLINOIS BRICK CO. v. ILLINOIS
720

Syllabus

(b) The Court's perception in Hanover Shoe of the uncertainties
and difficulties in analyzing price and output decisions "in the real
economic world rather than an economist's hypothetical model," applies
with equal force to the assertion of pass-on theories by plaintiffs as it
does to such assertion by defendants. Pp. 731-733.
(c) Because Hanover Shoe would bar petitioners from using respondents' pass-on theory as a defense to a treble-damages suit by the
direct purchasers (the insonry contractors), Hanover Shoe must be
overruled (or narrowly limited), or it must be applied to bar respondents' attempt to use this pass-on theory offensively Pp. 735-736.
2. Hanover Shoe was correctly decided and its construction of § 4 is
adhered to. Pp. 736-747
(a) Considerations of stare decms weigh heavily in the area of
statutory construction, where Congress is free to change this Court's
interpretation of its legislation. Pp. 736-737
(b) Whole new dimensions of complexity would be added to trebledamages suits, undermining their effectiveness, if the use of pass-on
theories under § 4 were allowed. Even under the optimistic assumption
that jomder of potential plaintiffs would deal satisfactorily with problems of multiple litigation and liability, § 4 actions would be transformed
into massive multiparty litigations involving many distribution levels
and including large classes of ultimate consumers remote from the
defendant. The Court's concern in Hanover Shoe with the problems of
"massive evidence and complicated theories" involved in attempting to
establish a pass-on defense against a direct purchaser applies a fortior
to the attempt to trace the effect of the overcharge through each step
in the distribution chain from the direct purchasers to the ultimate
consumer. Pp. 737-744.
(c) Attempts to carve out exceptions to Hanover Shoe for particular types of markets would entail the very problems that Hanover
Shoe sought to avoid. Pp. 744-745.
(d) The legislative purpose in creating a group of "private attorneys general" to enforce the antitrust laws under § 4, Hawaii v
Standard Oil Co. of California, 405 U. S. 251, 262, is better served by
holding direct purchasers to be injured to the full extent of the overcharge paid by them than by attempting to apportion the overcharge
among all that may have absorbed a part of it. Pp. 745-747
536 F 2d 1163, reversed and remanded.
WHrnr, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which BURGER, C. J.,
and STEwAR, POWELL, REHNQUIST, and STEVENs, JJ., joined. BRENNAN,
J., filed a dissenting opnion, in which MAnSYA L and BLcK -UN, JJ.,

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
Counsel

431 U. S.

joined, post, p. 748. BLACKmUN, J., filed a dissenting opinion, post,
p. 765.

Edward H. HUatton argued the cause for petitioners. With
him on the briefs were Lynne E McNown, Alan L. Metz,
Samuel J Betar, Earl E Pollack, James P Morgan, Thomas
W Johnston, and George B Collins.
Lee A. Freeman, Jr., Special Assistant Attorney General of
Illinois, argued the cause for respondents. With hnn on the
brief was William J Scott, Attorney General.
Assistant Attorney General Baker argued the cause for the
United States as amicus curiae urging affirmance. With him
on the brief were Acting Solicitor General Friedmanand Carl
D Lawson.*
*Evelle J Younger, Attorney General, Sanford N Gruskzn, Chief Assistant Attorney General, Warren J Abbott, Assistant Attorney General, and
Michael I. Spiegel and Richard N Light, Deputy Attorneys General, filed
a brief for the State of California as amicus curiae urging affirmance.
A brief of amzcz curiae urging affirmance was filed by the Attorneys
General and other officials for their respective States as follows: Bruce E.
Babbitt, Attorney General, John A. Baade, Assistant Attorney General,
and Kenneth R. Reed, of Arizona, William J Baxley, Attorney General, and William T Stephens, Assistant Attorney General, of Alabama,
Avrum M. Gross, Attorney General, and Joseph K. Donohue, Assistant
Attorney General, of Alaska, Bill Clinton, Attorney General, and Frank B.
Newell, Deputy Attorney General, of Arkansas; J D MacFarlane, Attorney General, and Robert F Hill, First Assistant Attorney General,
of Colorado; Carl R. Ajello, Attorney General, and Gerard J Dowling
and Larry H. Evans, Assistant Attorneys General, of Connecticut; Richard R. Wier, Jr., Attorney General, and Regina M. Small, Deputy Attorney General, of Delaware; Robert L. Shevmn, Attorney General, and
Charles R. Ranson, Assistant Attorney General, of Florida, Arthur K. Bolton, Attorney General, and R. DouglasLackey, Assistant Attorney General,
of Georgia, Ronald Y. Amemiya, Attorney General, and Nelson S. W Chang,
Deputy Attorney General, of Hawaii; Wayne L. Kidwell, Attorney General, and Rudolf D Barchas, Deputy Attorney General, of Idaho;
Theodore L. Sendac, Attorney General, and Donald P Bogard, of Indiana, Richard C. Turner, Attorney General, and Gary H. Swanson,

ILLINOIS BRICK CO. v. ILLINOIS
720

M.

Opinion of the Court

JusTice WRITE delivered the opinion of

the Court.

Hanover Shoe,.Inc. v United Shoe Machinery Corp., 392
U S. 481 (1968), involved an antitrust treble-damages action
Assistant Attorney General, of Iowa, Curt T Schneider, Attorney General, and Thomas H. Brill, Assistant Attorney General, of Kansas;
Robert F Stephens, Attorney General, and W Patrick Stallard, Assistant Attorney General, of Kentucky; William J Guste, Jr., Attorney
General, and John R. Flowers, Jr., Assistant Attorney General, of Louisiana, Joseph E. Brennan, Attorney General, and Cheryl Harrington,Assistant Attorney General, of Maine; Francis B. Burch, Attorney General,
and Thomas M. Wilson III, Assistant Attorney General, of Maryland;
Francis X. Bellotti, Attorney General, and Paula W Gold, Assistant
Attorney General, of Massachusetts; Frank J Kelley, Attorney General, and
Edwin M. Bladen, Assistant Attorney General, of Michigan, Warren R.
Spannaus, Attorney General, and Alan H. Maclin, Special Assistant Attorney General, of Minnesota, A. F Summer, Attorney General, and Donald
Clark, Jr., Special Assistant Attorney General, of Mississippi; John
Ashcroft, Attorney General of Missouri; Michael T Greely, Attorney
General, and Mike McGrath, Assistant Attorney General, of Montana,
Paul L. Douglas, Attorney General, and Robert F Bartle, Assistant Attorney General, of Nebraska, Robert List, Attorney General, and Donald
Klaszc, Deputy Attorney General, of Nevada, David H. Souter, Attorney
General, and Wilfred John Funk, Assistant Attorney General, of New
Hampshire; William F Hyland, Attorney General, and Elias Abelson, of
New Jersey; Toney Anaya, Attorney General, and Robert N Hilgendorf,
Assistant Attorney General, of New Mexico; Louis J Lefkowitz, Attorney
General, and John M. Desdero, Assistant Attorney General, of New
York; Rufus L. Edmzsten, Attorney General, and G. Jona Poe, Jr., Special
Deputy Attorney General, of North Carolina, Allen I. Olson, Attorney
General, and Lynn E. Erickson, Assistant Attorney General, of North
Dakota, Larry Derryberry, Attorney General, and Paul C. Duncan,Assistant Attorney General, of Oklahoma, James A. Redden, Attorney General
of Oregon, Robert P Kane, Attorney General, and Vincent X. Yakowwz,
Solicitor General, of Pennsylvania, Julius C. Michaelson, Attorney General
of Rhode Island, Daniel R. McLeod, Attorney General, and Victor S.
Evans, Deputy Attorney General, of South Carolina, William J Janklow,
Attorney General, and Thomas J Welk, Assistant Attorney General, of
South Dakota, Brooks McLemore, Attorney General of Tennessee; John
L. Hill, Attorney General, and Lee C. Clyburn, of Texas; Robert B. Hansen, Attorney General, and William T Evans, Assistant Attorney General,
of Utah, M. Jerome Diamond, Attorney General, and Jay I. Ashman,

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
Opinion of the Court

431 U. S.

brought under § 4 of the Clayton Act I against a manufacturer
of shoe machinery by one of its customers, a manufacturer of
shoes. In defense, the shoe machinery manufacturer sought
to show that the plaintiff had not been injured in its business
as required by § 4 because it had passed on the claimed illegal
overcharge to those who bought shoes from it. Under the
defendant's theory, the illegal overcharge was absorbed by the
plaintiff's customers-rdirect purchasers of the defendant's
shoe machinery-who were the persons actually injured by
the antitrust violation.
In Hanover Shoe this Court rejected as a matter of law this
defense that indirect rather than direct purchasers were the
parties injured by the antitrust violation. The Court held
that, except in certain limited circumstances,2 a direct purchaser suing for treble damages under § 4 of the Clayton Act
is injured within the meaning of § 4 by the full amount of
the overcharge paid by it and that the antitrust defendant is
Assistant Attorney General, of Vermont; Anthony F Troy, Chief Deputy
Attorney General, and John J Miles, Assistant Attorney General, of Virgmia, Slade Gorton, Attorney General, and Thomas L. Boeder, Assistant
Attorney General, of Washington; Chauncey H. Browning, Jr., Attorney
General, and Gene Hal Williams, Deputy Attorney General, of West Virginia, Bronson C. LaFollette, Attorney General, and Michael L. Zaleskz,
Assistant Attorney General, of Wisconsin; V Frank Mendicino, Attorney General, Charles J Carroll, Deputy Attorney General, and Jim
Gusea, Assistant Attorney General, of Wyoming.
1 Section 4 of the Clayton Act, 38 Stat. 731, 15 U S. C. § 15, provides:
"Any person who shall be injured in his business or property by reason
of anything forbidden in the antitrust laws may sue therefor in any
district court of the United States in the district in which the defendant
resides or is found or has an agent, without respect to the amount in
controversy, and shall recover threefold the damages by him sustained,
and the cost of suit, including a reasonable attorney's fee."
2The
Court cited, as an example of when a pass-on defense might be
permitted, the situation where "an overcharged buyer has a pre-existing
'cost-plus' contract, thus making it easy to prove that he has not been
damaged
" 392 U. S., at 494. See infra, at 735-736.

ILLINOIS BRICK CO. v. ILLINOIS
720

Opinion of the Court

not permitted to introduce evidence that indirect purchasers

were in fact injured by the illegal overcharge. 392 U S.,
at 494. The first reason for the Court's rejection of this offer
of proof was an unwillingness to complicate treble-damages
actions with attempts to trace the effects of the overcharge
on the purchaser's prices, sales, costs, and profits, and of
showing that these variables would have behaved differently
without the overcharge. Id., at 492-493.1 A second reason for
barring the pass-on defense was the Court's concern that unless direct purchasers were allowed to sue for the portion of
the overcharge arguably passed on to indirect purchasers, antitrust violators "would retain the fruits of their illegality"
3

The Court explained the economic uncertainties and complexities
involved in proving pass-on as follows:
"A wide range of factors influence a company's pricing policies. Normally
the impact of a single change in the relevant conditions cannot be
measured after the fact; indeed a businessman may be unable to state
whether, had one fact been different (a single supply less expensive,
general economic conditions more buoyant, or the labor market tighter,
for example), he would have chosen a different price. Equally difficult to

determine, in the real economic world rather than an economist's hypothetical model, is what effect a change in a company's price will have on
its total sales. Finally, costs per unit for a different volume of total sales
are hard to estimate. Even if it could be shown that the buyer raised
his price in response to, and in the amount of, the overcharge and that
his margin of profit and total sales had not thereafter declined, there
would remain the nearly insuperable difficulty of demonstrating that the
particular plaintiff could not or would not have raised his prices absent the
overcharge or maintained the higher price had the overcharge been
discontinued. Since establishing the applicability of the passing-on defense
would require a convincing showing of each of these virtually unascertamable figures, the task would normally prove insurmountable. On the
other haifd, it is not unlikely that if the existence of the defense is generally
confirmed, antitrust defendants will frequently seek to establish its applicability Treble-damage actions would often require additional long and
complicated proceedings involving massive evidence and complicated
theories." 392 U. S., at 492-493. (Footnote omitted.)

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
Opmion of the Court

431 U. S.

because indirect purchasers "would have only a tiny stake in
the lawsuit" and hence little incentive to sue. Id., at 494.
In this case we once again confront the question whether
the overcharged direct purchaser should be deemed for purposes of § 4 to have suffered the full injury from the overcharge, but the issue is presented in the context of a suit in
which the plaintiff, an indirect purchaser, seeks to show its
injury by establishing pass-on by the direct purchaser and in
which the antitrust defendants rely on Hanover Shoe's rejection of the pass-on theory Having decided that in general
a pass-on theory may not be used defensively by an antitrust
violator against a direct purchaser plaintiff, we must now
decide whether that theory may be used offensively by an indirect purchaser plaintiff against an alleged violator.

I
Petitioners manufacture and distribute concrete block in
the Greater Chicago area. They sell the block primarily to
masonry contractors, who submit bids to general contractors
for the masonry portions of construction projects. The general contractors in turn submit bids for these projects to customers such as the respondents in this case, the State of
Illinois and 700 local governmental entities in the Greater
Chicago area, including counties, municipalities, housing authorities, and school districts. See 67 F R. D 461, 463 (ND
Ill. 1975), App. 16-48. Respondents are thus indirect purchasers of concrete block, which passes through two separate
levels in the chain of distribution before reaching respondents.
The block is purchased directly from petitioners by masonry
contractors and used by them to build masonry structures;
those structures are incorporated into entire buildings by general contractors and sold to respondents.
Respondent State of Illinois, on behalf of itself and respondent local governmental entities, brought this antitrust trebledamages action under § 4 of the Clayton Act, alleging that

ILLINOIS BRICK CO. v. ILLINOIS
720

Opinion of the Court

petitioners had engaged in a combination and conspiracy to fix
the prices of concrete block in violation of § 1 of the Sherman
Act.4 The complaint alleged that the amounts paid by respondents for concrete block were more than $3 million higher
by reason of this price-fixing conspiracy The only way in
which the antitrust violation alleged could have injured
respondents is if all or part of the overcharge was passed on by
the masonry and general contractors to respondents, rather
than being absorbed at the first two levels of distribution.
See Illinots v Ampress Brck Co., 536 F 2d 1163, 1164 (CA7
1976)
Petitioner manufacturers moved for partidl summary judgment against all plaintiffs that were indirect purchasers of
concrete block from petitioners, contending that as a matter
of law only direct purchasers could sue for the alleged overcharge.' The District Court granted petitioners' motion, but
the Court of Appeals reversed, holding that indirect purchasers
such as respondents in this case can recover treble damages
for an illegal overcharge if they can prove that the overcharge
'Section 1 of the Sherman Act, c. 647, 26 Stat. 209, as amended, 15
U. S. C. § 1, provides in relevant part:
"Every contract, combination in the form of trust or otherwise, or
conspiracy, in restraint of trade or commerce among the several States,
"
or with foreign nations, is hereby declared to be illegal
5 Private treble-damages actions brought by masonry contractors, general contractors, and private builders were settled, without prejudice to this

suit. 536 F 2d, at 1164.
responses to petitioners' interrogatories indicated that only four
6
of the plaintiffs represented by the State purchased concrete block directly
from one of the petitioners. 67 F. R. D. 461,463 (ND Ill. 1975). Only 7%
of the 700 public entities named as plaintiffs were apparently able to state
the cost of the concrete block used in their building projects. Brief for
In the only example cited to us by the parties, the
Petitioners 5 n. *
cost of the concrete block was reported as less than one-half of one percent of the total cost of the project. Id., at 21 n. *

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
Opinion of the Court

431 U. S.

was passed on to them through intervening links in the distribution chain. 7
We granted certiorari, 429 U S. 938 (1976), to resolve a
conflict among the Courts of Appeals 8 on the question whether
the offensive use of pass-on authorized by the decision below
is consistent with Hanover Shoe's restrictions on the defensive
use of pass-on. We hold that it is not, and we reverse. We
reach this result m two steps. First, we conclude that whatever rule is to be adopted regarding pass-on in antitrust damages actions, it must apply equally to plaintiffs and defendants.
Because Hanover Shoe would bar petitioners from using respondents' pass-on theory as a defense to a treble-damages suit
7
The District Court based its grant of summary judgment against the
indirect purchaser plaintiffs not on the ground that this Court's construction of § 4 in Hanover Shoe barred their attempt to show that the
masonry and general contractors passed on the overcharge to them, but
rather on the ground that these indirect purchasers lacked standing to
sue for an overcharge on one product-concrete block-that was incorporated by the masonry and general contractors into an entirely new and
different product-a building. 67 F R. D., at 467-468. Although the
Court of Appeals held that these indirect purchasers did have standing to
sue for damages under § 4, it agreed with the District Court's reading of
Hanover Shoe. 536 F 2d, at 1164-1167 Because we find Hanover Shoe
dispositive here, we do not address the standing issue, except to note,
as did the Court of Appeals below, 536 F 2d, at 1166, that the
question of which persons have been injured by an illegal overcharge for
purposes of § 4 is analytically distinct from the question of which persons
have sustained injuries too remote to give them standing to sue for
damages under § 4. See Handler & Blechman, Antitrust and the Consumer Interest: The Fallacy of Parens Patnre and A Suggested New
Approach, 85 Yale L. J. 626, 644-645 (1976).
8
Compare Mangano v American Radiator & Standard Sanitary Corp.,
488 F 2d 1187 (CA3 1971), aff'g Philadelphia Housing Auth. v.
American Radiator & Standard Sanitary Corp., 50 F R. D. 13 (ED Pa.
1970), with In re Western Lzquzd Asphalt Cases, 487 F 2d 191 (CA9
1973), cert. demed sub nom. Standard Oil Co. of Cal. v. Alaska, 415 U. S.
919 (1974), West Virgznza v. Chas. Pfizer & Co., 440 F 2d 1079 (CA2),
cert. denied sub nom. Cotler Drugs, Inc. v. Chas. Pfizer & Co., 404 U. S.
871 (1971), and the decision below, Illinons v. Ampress Brick Co., 536 F 2d
1163.

ILLINOIS BRICK CO. v. ILLINOIS
720

Opmion of the Court

by the direct purchasers (the masonry contractors),' we are
faced with the choice of overruling (or narrowly limiting) Hanover Shoe or of applying it to bar respondents' attempt to use
this pass-on theory offensively Second, we decline to abandon
the construction given § 4 in Hanover Shoe-that the overcharged direct purchaser, and not others in the chain of
manufacture or distribution, is the party "injured in his business or property" within the meaning of the section-m the
absence of a convincing demonstration that the Court was
wrong in Hanover Shoe to think that the effectiveness of the
antitrust treble-damages action would be substantially reduced
by adopting a rule that any party in the chain may sue to
recover the fraction of the overcharge allegedly absorbed by it.
II
The parties in this case agree that however § 4 is construed with respect to the pass-on issue, the rule should apply
equally to plaintiffs and defendants-that an indirect purchaser should not be allowed to use a pass-on theory to recover damages from a defendant unless the defendant would
be allowed to use a pass-on defense in a suit by a direct purchaser. Respondents, in arguing that they should be allowed
to recover by showing pass-on in this case, have conceded that
petitioners should be allowed to assert a pass-on defense
against direct purchasers of concrete block, Tr. of Oral Arg.
33, 48, they ask this Court to limit Hanover Shoe's bar on
pass-on defenses to its "particular factual context" of overcharges for capital goods used to manufacture new products.
Id., at 41, see 2d., at 36, 47-48.
Before turning to this request to limit Hanover Shoe, we
consider the substantially contrary position, adopted by our
dissenting Brethren, by the United States as amscus cumae,
and by lower courts that have allowed offensive use of pass-on,
that the unavailability of a pass-on theory to a defendant
9 See znfra, at 734-735.

OCTOBER TERM, 1976

Opinion of the Court

431 U. S.

should not necessarily preclude its use by plaintiffs seeking
treble damages against that defendant." Under this view,
Hanover Shoe's rejection of pass-on would continue to apply
to defendants unless direct and indirect purchasers were both
suing the defendant in the same action, but it would not bar
indirect purchasers from attempting to show that the overcharge had been passed on to them. We reject this position
for two reasons.
First, allowing offensive but not defensive use of pass-on
would create a serious risk of multiple liability for defendants.
Even though an indirect purchaser had already recovered for
all or part of an overcharge passed on to it, the direct purchaser would still recover automatically the full amount of
the overcharge that the indirect purchaser had shown to be
passed on, similarly, following an automatic recovery of the
full overcharge by the direct purchaser, the indirect purchaser
could sue to recover the same amount. The risk of duplicative recoveries created by unequal application of the Hanover
Shoe rule is much more substantial than in the more usual
situation where the defendant is sued in two different lawsuits by plaintiffs asserting conflicting claims to the same
fund. A one-sided application of Hanover Shoe substantially
increases the possibility of inconsistent adjudications-and
therefore of unwarranted multiple liability for the defendant--by presuming that one plaintiff (the direct purchaser)
is entitled to full recovery while preventing the defendant
from using that presumption against the other plaintiff, overlapping recoveries are certain to result from the two law-

10 Post, at 753

J., dissenting), post, at 765-766 (BLAcK'lUx,
J., dissenting), Brief for United States as Amicus Cunae,4-6, 15-21, Tr. of
Oral Arg. 50-54, 57-60; West Virginta v. Chas. Pfizer & Co., 440 F 2d, at
1086-1088; Boshes v. General Motors Corp., 59 F R. D. 589, 592-598
(ND Ill. 1973), In re Master Key Antitrust Litigation, 1973-2 Trade Cas.
74,680, p. 94,978 (Conn.), CarnvaleBag Co. v. Slide-Rite Mfg. Corp., 395
F Supp. 287, 290-291 (SDNY 1975) See also Brief for State of
California as Amwus Curiae 6-12.
(BRENNAN,

ILLINOIS BRICK CO. v. ILLINOIS

720

Opinion of the Court

suits unless the indirect purchaser is unable to establish any
pass-on whatsoever. As in Hawaii v Standard Oil Co. of Cal.,
405 U. S. 251, 264 (1972), we are unwilling to "open the door
to duplicative recoveries" under § 4.""
Second, the reasoning of Hanover Shoe cannot justify unequal treatment of plaintiffs and defendants with respect to

the permissibility of pass-on arguments.

The principal basis

for the decision in Hanover Shoe was the Court's perception
of the uncertainties and difficulties in analyzing price and out11 In recognition of the need to avoid duplicative recoveries, courts
adopting the view that pass-on theories should not be equally available to
plaintiffs and defendants have agreed that defendants should be allowed to
assert a pass-on defense against a direct purchaser if an indirect purchaser
is also attempting to recover on a pass-on theory in the same lawsuit. B. g.,
In re Western Liquid Asphalt Cases, 487 F 2d, at 200-201, West Virginia
v. Chas. Pfizer & Co., 440 F 2d, at 1088. See also Comment, Standing to
Sue in Antitrust Cases: The Offensive Use of Passing-On, 123 U. Pa. L.
Rev 976, 995-998 (1975), Comment, Mangano and Ultimate-Consumer
Standing: The Misuse of the Hanover Doctrine, 72 Colum. L. Rev 394,
410 (1972), Brief for United States as Amicus Curiae 25. Various procedural devices, such as the Multidistrict Litigation Act, 28 U. S. C. § 1407,
and statutory interpleader, 28 U. S. C. § 1335, are relied upon to bring
indirect and direct purchasers together in one action in order to apportion
damages among them and thereby reduce the risk of duplicative recovery
These procedural devices cannot protect against multiple liability where the
direct purchasers have already recovered by obtaining a judgment or by
settling, as is more likely (and as occurred here, see n. 5, supra),
acknowledging that the risk of multiple recoveries is inevitably increased
by allowing offensive but not defensive use of pass-on, e. g., Comment,
123 U. Pa. L. Rev., supra, at 994, proponents of this approach ultimately
fall back on the argument that it is better for the defendant to pay
sixfold or more damages than for an injured party to go uncompensated.
E. g., Comment, 72 Colum. L. Rev., supra, at 411, Tr. of Oral Arg. 58
is acceptable").
("a little slopover on the shoulders of the wrongdoers
We do not find this risk acceptable.
Moreover, even if ways could be found to bring all potential plaintiffs
together m one huge action, the complexity thereby introduced into trebledamages proceedings argues strongly for retaining the Hanover Shoe rule.
See Part III, infra.

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
Opinion of the Court

431 U. S.

put decisions "in the real economic world rather than an
economist's hypothetical model," 392 U S., at 493, and of
the costs to the judicial system and the efficient enforcement
of the antitrust laws of attempting to reconstruct those decisions in the courtroom 2 This perception that the attempt
to trace the complex economic adjustments to a change in the
cost of a particular factor of production would greatly complicate and reduce the effectiveness of already protracted
treble-damages proceedings applies with no less force to the
assertion of pass-on theories by plaintiffs than it does to the
assertion by defendants. However "long and complicated" the
proceedings would be when defendants sought to prove pass-on,
ibid., they would be equally so when the same evidence
was introduced by plaintiffs. Indeed, the evidentiary complexities and uncertainties involved in the defensive use of
pass-on against a direct purchaser are multiplied in the offensive use of pass-on by a plaintiff several steps removed
from the defendant in the chain of distribution. The demonstration of how much of the overcharge was passed on by
the first purchaser must be repeated at each point at which
2

That this rationale was more important

in

the decision to bar the

pass-on defense than the second reason-the concern that if pass-on
defenses were permitted indirect purchasers would lack the incentive to sue
and antitrust violators would retain their ill-gotten gains, see supra, at
725-726, is shown by the fact that the Court recognized an exception for
pre-existing cost-plus contracts, which "mak[e] it easy to prove that [the
direct purchaser] has not been damaged." 392 U. S., at 494. (Emphasis
added.) The amount of the stake that the customers of the direct purchaser have in a lawsuit against the overcharger is not likely to depend
on whether they buy under a cost-plus contract or in a competitive
market, but the Court allowed a pass-on defense in the former situation
because the pre-emsting cost-plus contract makes easy the normally complicated task of demonstrating that the overcharge has not been absorbed
by the direct purchaser. See Note, The Effect of Hanover Shoe on the
Offensive Use of the Passing-on Doctrine, 46 So. Cal. L. Rev 98, 108
(1972).

ILLINOIS BRICK CO. v. ILLINOIS
720

Opinion of the Court

the price-fixed goods changed hands before they reached the
plaintiff. 3
It is argued, however, that Hanover Shoe rests on a policy
of ensuring that a treble-damages plaintiff is available to deprive antitrust violators of "the fruits of their illegality," id.,
at 494, a policy that would be furthered by allowing plaintiffs
but not defendants to use pass-on theories. See, e. g., In re
Western Liquid Asphalt Cases, 487 F 2d 191, 197 (CA9 1973),
cert. denied sub nom. Standard Oil Co. of Cal. v Alaska,
415 U S. 919 (1974), Brief for United States as Amscus
Curiae 4-6, 12-13, 17-19.' 4 We do not read the Court's
"Offensive use of pass-on by the last purchaser m the distribution
chain is simpler in one respect than defensive use of pass-on against a
direct purchaser that sells a product to other customers. In the latter
case, even if the defendant shows that as a result of the overcharge the
direct purchaser increased its price by the full amount of the overcharge,
the direct purchaser may still claim injury from a reduction m the volume
of its sales caused by its higher prices. This additional element of injury
from reduced volume is not present in the suit by the final purchaser of
the overcharged goods, where the issue regarding injury will be whether
the defendant's overcharge caused the plaintiff to pay a higher price for
whatever it purchased. But the final purchaser still will have to trace the
overcharge through each step in the distribution chain. In our view, the
difficulty of reconstructing the pricing decisions of intermediate purchasers
at each step m the chain beyond the direct purchaser generally will
outweigh any gain in simplicity from not having to litigate the effects of
the passed-on overcharge on the direct purchaser's volume.
14 We are urged to defer to evidence in the legislative history of the
Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, 90 Stat. 13941396, 15 U. S. C. § 15c et seq. (1976 ed.), that Congress understood
HanoverShoe as applying only to defendants. Post, at 756-758 (BRExNAN,
J., dissenting), Brief for 47 States as Amici Curiae 14-15, n. 6, Brief for
United States as Amwus Curiae 14-15, and n. 12. The House Report
(apparently viewing the issue as one of standing, cf. n. 7, supra) endorsed
the Ninth Circuit's view of "the pro-enforcement thrust of Hanover Shoe"
in In re Western Liquid Asphalt Cases, supra, and criticized lower court
decisions barring pass-on arguments by plaintiffs. H. R. Rep. No. 94-499,
p. 6 n. 4 (1975). In addition, one of the sponsors of this legislation,
Representative Rodino, clearly assumed that the issue of offensive use of

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
Opinion of the Court

431 U. S.

concern in Hanover Shoe for the effectiveness of the trebledamages remedy as countenancing unequal application of the
Court's pass-on rule. Rather, we understand Hanover Shoe
pass-on under § 4 would be resolved favorably to plaintiffs by this Court.
See 122 Cong. Rec. R10295 (daily ed., Sept. 16, 1976)
Congress made clear, however, that this legislation did not alter the
definition of which overcharged persons were injured within the meaning
of § 4. It simply created a new procedural device--paens patriae actions
by States on behalf of their citizens-to enforce existing rights of recovery
under § 4. The House Report quoted above stated that the parens patrzae
provision "creates no new substantive liability", the relevant language of
the newly enacted § 4C (a) of the Clayton Act tracks that of existing § 4,
for the
showing that it was intended only as "an alternative means
vindication of existing substantive claims." H. R. Rep. No. 94-499, supra,
at 9. "The establishment of an alternative remedy does not increase any
defendant's liability" Ibid. Representative Rodino himself acknowledged
m the remarks cited above that this legislation did not create a right of
recovery for consumers where one did not already exist.
We thus cannot agree with the dissenters that the legislative history of
the 1976 Antitrust Improvements Act is dispositive as to the interpretation
of § 4 of the Clayton Act, enacted in 1914, or the predecessor section of the
Sherman Act, enacted m 1890. Post,at 756-758. The cases cited by MR.
JUSTIcE BRENNAN, post, at 765 n. 24, to support his reliance on this
legislation all involved specific statutory language that was thought to
clarify the meaning of an earlier statute. E. g., Red Lion BroadcastingCo.
v FCC, 395 U. S. 367, 380-381 (1969) (language in 1959 amendment to
§ 315 of the Commumcations Act approved fairness doctrine adopted by
FCC under the "public interest" standard of the original Act). Here, by
contrast, Congress borrowed the language of § 4 in adding the parens
patriae section. The views expressed by particular legislators as to the
meaning of that language in § 4 "cannot serve to change the legislative
'since the statements were [made] after passage of
intent of Congress
the [Clayton] Act."' Regional Rail Reorganization Act Cases, 419 U S.
102, 132 (1974), quoting National Woodwork Mfrs. Assn. v. NLRB, 386
U. S. 612, 639 n. 34 (1967).
While we do not lightly disagree with the reading of Hanover Shoe
urged by these legislators, we think the construction of § 4 adopted in
that decision cannot be applied for the exclusive benefit of plaintiffs.
Should Congress disagree with this result, it may, of course, amend the
section to change it. But it has not done so in the recent parens patnae
legislation.

ILLINOIS BRICK CO. v. ILLINOIS
720

Opinion of the Court

as resting on the judgment that the antitrust laws will be more

effectively enforced by concentrating the full recovery for the
overcharge in the direct purchasers rather than by allowing
every plaintiff potentially affected by the overcharge to sue
only for the amount it could show was absorbed by it.
We thus decline to construe § 4 to permit offensive use of

a pass-on theory against an alleged violator that could not
use the same theory as a defense in an action by direct purchasers. In this case, respondents seek to demonstrate that

masonry contractors, who incorporated petitioners' block into
walls and other masonry structures, passed on the alleged
overcharge on the block to general contractors, who incorporated the masonry structures into entire buildings, and
that the general contractors in turn passed on the overcharge
to respondents in the bids submitted for those buildings. We
think it clear that under a fair reading of Hanover Shoe petitioners would be barred from asserting this theory m a suit
by the masonry contractors.
In Hanover Shoe this Court did not endorse the broad exception that had been recognized in that case by the courts
below-permitting the pass-on defense against middlemen who
did not alter the goods they purchased before reselling
them.1" The masonry contractors here could not be included
under this exception in any event, because they transform
the concrete block purchased from defendants into the masonry portions of buildings. But this Court in Hanover Shoe
isIn a separate trial pursuant to Fed. Rule Civ Proc. 42 (b), the
District Court held that the defendant shoe machinery manufacturer was
not permitted to assert a pass-on defense against its customer. 185 F
Supp. 826 (MD Pa.), aff'd, 281 F 2d 481 (CA3), cert. demed, 364
U. S. 901 (1960). The District Court indicated that pass-on defenses
were barred against "consumers" who use the defendant's product to make

their own but not against "middlemen" who simply resell the defendant's
product. 185 F Supp., at 830-831. Both on interlocutory appeal and

after trial on the merits, the Court of Appeals affirmed on the basis of
the District Court's reasoning. See 392 U. S., at 488 n. 6.

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
Opinion of the Court

431 U. S.

indicated the narrow scope it intended for any exception to
its rule barring pass-on defenses by citing, as the only example
of a situation where the defense might be permitted, a preexisting cost-plus contract. In such a situation, the purchaser is insulated from any decrease in its sales as a result
of attempting to pass on the overcharge, because its customer
is committed to buying a fixed quantity regardless of price.
The effect of the overcharge is essentially determined in advance, without reference to the interaction of supply and
demand that complicates the determination in the general case.
The competitive bidding process by which the concrete block
involved in this case was incorporated into masonry structures
and then into entire buildings can hardly be said to circumvent complex market interactions as would a cost-plus
contract.'"
We are left, then, with two alternatives: either we must
overrule Hanover Shoe (or at least narrowly confine it to its
facts), or we must preclude respondents from seeking to recover on their pass-on theory We choose the latter course.
III
In considering whether to cut back or abandon the Hanover
Shoe rule, we must bear in mind that considerations of
stare decmss weigh heavily in the area of statutory construction, where Congress is free to change this Court's interpretation of its legislation. See Edelman v Jordan,415 U S. 651,
671 (1974), Burnet v Coronado Oil & Gas Co., 285 U S. 393,
406-408 (1932) (Brandeis, J., dissenting) This presumption
of adherence to our prior decisions construing legislative enactments would support our reaffirmance of the Hanover Shoe
6

Another situation in which market forces have been superseded and
the pass-on defense might be permitted is where the direct purchaser is
owned or controlled by its customer. Cf. Perkins v. Standard Oil Co., 395
U. S. 642, 648 (1969), In re Western Liquzd Asphalt Cases, 487 F 2d,
at 197, 199.

ILLINOIS BRICK CO. v. ILLINOIS
720

Opinion of the Court

construction of § 4, joined by eight Justices without dissent

only a few years ago,' even if the Court were persuaded that
the use of pass-on theories by plaintiffs and defendants in
treble-damages actions is more consistent with the policies
underlying the treble-damages action than is the Hanover Shoe
rule. But we are not so persuaded.
Permitting the use of pass-on theories under § 4 essentially
would transform treble-damages actions into massive efforts
to apportion the recovery among all potential plaintiffs that
could have absorbed part of the overcharge-from direct purchasers to middlemen to ultimate consumers. However appealing this attempt to allocate the overcharge imight seem m
theory, it would add whole new dimensions of complexity
to treble-damages suits and seriously undermine their
effectiveness.
As we have indicated, potential plantiffs at each level m
the distribution chain are m a position to assert conflicting
claims to a common fund-the amount of the alleged overcharge-by contending that the entire overcharge was absorbed at that particular level m the chain. 18 A treble-damages action brought by one of these potential plaintiffs (or one
class of potential plaintiffs) to recover the overcharge implicates all three of the interests that have traditionally been
thought to support compulsory joinder of absent and potentially adverse claimants: the interest of the defendant m
'7

The sole dissenting Justice m Hanover Shoe did not reach tire pass-on
question. 392 U. S., at 513.
18In this Part, we assume that use of pass-on will be permitted
symmetrically; if at all. This assumption, of course, reduces the substantial
risk of multiple liability for defendants that is posed by allowing indirect
purchasers to recover for the overcharge passed on to them while at the
same time allowing direct purchasers automatically to collect the entire
overcharge. See supra,at 730-731. But the possibility of inconsistent judgments obtained by conflicting claimants remains nonethelegs. Even this
residual possibility justifies bringing potential and actual claimants together
in one action if possible.

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
Opinion of the Court

431 U. S.

avoiding multiple liability for the fund, the interest of the
absent potential plaintiffs in protecting their right to recover
for the portion of the fund allocable to them, and the social
interest in the efficient administration of justice and the avoidance of multiple litigation. Reed, Compulsory Joinder of
Parties in Civil Actions, 55 Mich. L. Rev 327, 330 (1957)
See Prowndent Tradesmens Bank & Trust Co. v Patterson,
390 U S. 102, 110-111 (1968), 7 C. Wright & A. Miller,
Federal Practice and Procedure § 1602 (1972).
Opponents of the Hanover Shoe rule have recognized this
need for compulsory joinder in suggesting that the defendant
could interplead potential claimants under 28 U S. C. § 1335.19
But if the defendant, for any of a variety of reasons, 0 does
not choose to interplead the absent potential claimants, there
would be a strong argument for joining them as "persons
needed for just adjudication" under Fed. Rule Civ Proc.
19 (a) 21 See Comment, Standing to Sue in Antitrust Cases:
19 See n. 11, supra. Interpleader under Fed. Rule Civ Proc. 22 (1)
often would be unavailable because service of process for rule interpleader,
as contrasted with statutory interpleader, does not run nationwide. See
3A J. Moore, Federal Practice 122.04[2] (1974).
20
For example, a condition precedent for invoking statutory interp!eader
is the posting of a bond for the amount in dispute, 28 U. S. C. § 1335
(a) (2), see 3A J.Moore, supra, 22.10, and a defendant may be unwilling
to put up a bond for the huge amounts normally claimed in multipleparty treble-damages suits. For a discussion of other circumstances in
which statutory interpleader may be "impractical," see McGuire, The
Passing-On Defense and the Right of Remote Purchasers to Recover
Treble Damages under Hanover Shoe, 33 U. Pitt. L. Rev 177, 197-198
(1971).
21
Rule 19 (a) provides in part:
"A person who is subject to service of process and whose joinder will not
deprive the court of jurisdiction over the subject matter of the action
shall be joined as a party in the action if (1) in his absence complete
relief cannot be accorded among those already parties, or (2) he claims
an interest relating to the subject of the action and is so situated that the
disposition of the action in his absence may (i) as a practical matter

ILLINOIS BRICK CO. v. ILLINOIS
720

Opinion of the Court

The Offensive Use of Passing-On, 123 U Pa. L. Rev 976, 998
(1975)
These absent potential clainants would seem to fit
the classic definition of "necessary parties," for purposes of
compulsory joinder, given in Shields v Barrow, 17 How 130,

139 (1855)
"Persons having an interest in the controversy, and
who ought to be made parties, in order that the court
may act on that rule which requires it to decide on, and
finally determine the entire controversy, and do complete
justice, by adjusting all the rights involved in it."
See Notes of Advisory Committee on 1966 Amendment to
Rule 19, 28 U S. C. App., p. 7760; 7 C. Wright & A. Miller,
supra, §§ 1604, 1618, 3A J Moore, Federal Practice 19.08
(1974). The plaintiff bringing the treble-damages action
wouldbe required, under Fed. Rule Civ Proc. 19 (c), to "state
the names, if known," of these absent potential claimants;
they should also be notified by some means that the action
was pending.2 Where, as would often be the case, the potential claimants at a particular level of distribution are so numerous that joinder of all is impracticable, a representative
presumably would have to be found to bring them into the
action as a class. See Fed. Rule Civ Proc. 19 (d), 3A J.
Moore, supra, 1 19.21.
It is unlikely, of course, that all potential plaintiffs could or
would be joined. Some may not wish to assert claims to the
impair or impede his ability to protect that interest or (ii) leave any of

the persons already parties subject to a substantial risk of incurring
double, multiple, or otherwse inconsistent obligations by reason of his
claimed
interest."
22 See
the comment of the Advisory Committee on the 1966 Amendment
to Rule 19: "In some situations it may be desirable to advise a person
who has not been joined of the fact that the action is pending, and in
particular cases the court in its discretion may itself convey this informa-

tion by directing a letter or other informal notice to the absentee." 28
U. S. C. App., p. 7760.

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
Opinion of the Court

431 U. S.

overcharge, others may be unmanageable as a class, and still
others may be beyond the personal jurisdiction of the court.
We can assume that ordinarily the action would still proceed,
the absent parties not being deemed "indispensable" under
See Provident Tradesmens
Fed. Rule Civ Proc. 19 (b)
Bank & Trust Co. v Patterson,supra. But allowing indirect
purchasers to recover using pass-on theories, even under the
optimistic assumption that joinder of potential plaintiffs will
deal satisfactorily with problems of multiple litigation and liability, would transform treble-damages actions into massive
multiparty litigations involving many levels of distribution
and including large classes of ultimate consumers remote from
the defendant. In treble-damages actions by ultimate consumers, the overcharge would have to be apportioned among
the relevant wholesalers, retailers, and other middlemen, whose
representatives presumably should be joined.23 And in suits
2

3

E. g., Philadelphia Housing Auth. v American Radiator & Stand-

ard Sanitary Corp., 50 F R. D. 13 (ED Pa. 1970), aff'd sub nom. Mangano v American Radiator & Standard Sanitary Corp., 438 F 2d 1187
(CA3 1971) (suit against manufacturers of plumbing fixtures on behalf
of all homeowners in the United States) There often will be more levels
of distribution or manufacture between the defendant and the ultimate
consumers than the two levels (masonry and general contractors) in
this case. For example, in PhiladelphiaHousing Auth., supra, the plaintiffs included homeowners who had bought used rather than new homes
and who therefore had to show that each time their houses changed hands
the sellers passed on part of the plumbing manufacturers' original overcharge. 50 F R. D., at 19-20, 25-26. Treble-damages suits by ultimate
consumers against any of the manufacturers of industrial raw materials
or equipment that have been charged in recent Government price-fixing
suits would involve not only several levels within a distribution chain, but
also several separate chains of distribution, for example, chromite sand is
used to make ingots, ingots are used to make steel, and steel is used to
make consumer products. Handler & Blechman, supra n. 7, at 640
n. 77, and see id., at 636-637 (citing Justice Department price-fixing suits
against defendants far removed from consumers)

ILLINOIS BRICK CO. v. ILLINOIS
720

Opinion of the Court

by direct purchasers or middlemen, the interests of ultimate
consumers are similarly implicated.2 4
There is thus a strong possibility that indirect purchasers
remote from the defendant would be parties to virtually every
treble-damages action (apart from those brought against defendants at the retail level) The Court's concern in Hanover
Shoe to avoid weighing down treble-damages actions with the
"massive evidence and complicated theories," 392 U S., at
493, involved in attempting to establish a pass-on defense
against a direct purchaser applies a fortori to the attempt to
trace the effect of the overcharge through each step in the
distribution chain from the direct purchaser to the ultimate
consumer. We are no more inclined than we were in Hanover Shoe to ignore the burdens that such an attempt would
impose on the effective enforcement of the antitrust laws.
Under an array of simplifying assumptions, economic theory
provides a precise formula for calculating how the overcharge
is distributed between the overcharged party (passer) and its
customers (passees) If the market for the passer's product
is perfectly competitive, if the overcharge is imposed equally
on all of the passer's competitors; and if the passer maximzes
its profits, then the ratio of the shares of the overcharge borne
by passee and passer will equal the ratio of the elasticities of
supply and demand in the market for the passer's product."
24 E. g., Donson Stores, Inc. v. American Bakeries Co., 58 F R. D. 481
(SDNY 1973) (motion to intervene by a putative class of 20 million
consumers of bread in treble-damages action against bread manufacturers).
Cf. Handler & Blechman, supra, n. 7, at 653 (arguing that the effect of
legislation authorizing States to bring treble-damages actions on behalf
of their citizens, see n. 14, supra, will be to interject claims on behalf
of large classes of consumers into treble-damages suits brought by middlemen). Thus in this case the plaintiff housing authorities, App. 20,
presumably have passed on part of the alleged overcharge to their
tenants and subtenants, who would have to be brought into the suit
before damages could be fairly apportioned.
25
An overcharge imposed by an antitrust violator or group of violators

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
Opinion of the Court

431 U. S.

Even if these assumptions are accepted, there remains a senous problem of measuring the relevant elasticities-the percentage change in the quantities of the passer's product demanded and supplied in response to a one percent change in
price. In view of the difficulties that have been encountered,
even in informal adversary proceedings, with the statistical
techniques used to estimate these concepts, see Finkelstein,
Regression Models in Administrative Proceedings, 86 Harv
L. Rev 1442, 1444 (1973), it is unrealistic to think that
elasticity studies introduced by expert witnesses will resolve
the pass-on issue. We need look no further than our own
difficulties with sophisticated statistical methodology that were
evident last Term in Gregg v Georgza, 428 U S. 153 (1976),
and its companion cases. See 7d., at 184-185 (joint opinion of
STEWART, POWELL, and STEVENS,

JJ.), 233-236 (MARsHALL,

J., dissenting), Roberts v Louuiana, 428 U S. 325, 35-355
(1976) (WiTE, J., dissenting).
More important, as the Hanover Shoe Court observed, 392
U S., at 493, "in the real economic world rather than an economst's hypothetical model," the latter's drastic simplifications
generally must be abandoned. Overcharged direct purchasers
often sell in imperfectly competitive markets. They often
compete with other sellers that have not been subject to the
overcharge, and their pricing policies often cannot be explained solely by the convenient assumption of profit maximization. 8 As we concluded in Hanover Shoe, 392 U S., at 492,
on their customers is analytically equivalent to an excise tax imposed on
the violator's product in the amount of the overcharge. The effect of
such an overcharge can be calculated using the economic theorems for
the incidence of an excise tax. See Schaefer, Passing-On Theory in
Antitrust Treble Damage Actions: An Economic and Legal Analysis, 16
Win. & Mary L. Rev 883, 887, 893 (1975), and sources cited in d., at
887 n. 21.
6 Thus, in the instant case respondents have offered to prove that
general and masonry contractors calculate their bids by adding a percentage markup to the cost of their materials, Brief for Respondents 20-23,

ILLINOIS BRICK CO. v. ILLINOIS
720

Opinion of the Court

attention to "sound laws of economics" can only heighten the
awareness of the difficulties and uncertainties involved in
determining how the relevant market variables would have
behaved had there been no overcharge.
It is quite true that these difficulties and uncertainties will
be less substantial in some contexts than in others. There
have been many proposals to allow pass-on theories in some
of these contexts while preserving the Hanover Shoe rule in
others. Respondents here argue, not without support from
some lower courts,28 that pass-on theories should be permitted
for middlemen that resell goods without altering them and
for contractors that add a fixed percentage markup to the
cost of their materials in submitting bids. Brief for Respondents 9-30, Tr. of Oral Arg. 36-48. Exceptions to the Hanover
Shoe rule have also been urged for other situations in which
most of the overcharge is purportedly passed on-for example,
where a price-fixed good is a small but vital input into a
rather than by attempting to equate marginal cost and marginal revenue
as2required
by an explicit profit-maximizing strategy
7
MR. JUSTICE BRENNAN in dissent argues that estimating a passee's
damages requires nothing more than estimating what the passer's price
would have been absent the violation, and suggests that apportioning
the overcharge throughout the distribution chain is "no different from and
no more complicated" than the initial task of estimating the amount of
the overcharge itself. Post, at 758-759, and n. 14. But as the dissent
recognizes, post, at 749 n. 3, unless the indirect purchaser is at the end
of the distribution chain it can clai damages not only from the portion
of the overcharge it absorbs but also from the portion it passes on,
which causes a reduction in sales volume under less than perfectly
inelastic demand conditions. See n. 13, supra. The difficulties of the task
urged upon us by the dissenters cannot be so easily brushed aside.
In any event, as we understand the dissenters' argument, it reduces
to the proposition that because antitrust cases are already complicated
there is little harm in making them more so. We disagree.
28
See, e. g., West Virgmia v. Chas. Pfizer & Co., 314 F Supp. 710,
745-746 (SDNY 1970), aff'd, 440 F 2d 1079 (CA2 1971), Boshes v. General Motors Corp., 59 F R. D., at 597

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
Opinion of the Court

431 U. S.

much larger product, making the demand for the price-fixed
good highly inelastic. Compare Philadelphia Housing
Auth. v American Radiator & Standard Sanitary Corp., 50
F R. D 13 (ED Pa. 1970), aff'd sub nom. Mangano v Amer2can Radiator & StandardSanitary Corp., 438 F 2d 1187 (CA3
1971), with In re Master Key Antitrust Litgatzon, 1973-2
See Schaefer, supra n. 25, at
Trade Cas. fT 74,680 (Conn.)
918-925.
We reject these attempts to carve out exceptions to the
Hanover Shoe rule for particular types of markets." An exception allowing evidence of pass-on by middlemen that resell
the goods they purchase of course would be of no avail to
respondents, because the contractors that allegedly passed on
the overcharge on the block incorporated it into buildings.
See supra, at 735. An exception for the contractors here on
the ground that they purport to charge a fixed percentage
above their costs would substantially erode the Hanover Shoe
rule without justification. Firms in many sectors of the
economy rely to an extent on cost-based rules of thumb in
setting prices. See F Scherer, Industrial Market Structure and
Economic Performance 173-179 (1970) These rules are not
adhered to rigidly, however; the extent of the markup (or
the allocation of costs) is varied to reflect demand conditions.
Id., at 176-177 The intricacies of tracing the effect of an
overcharge on the purchaser's prices, costs, sales, and profits
thus are not spared the litigants.
More generally, the process of classifying various market
situations according to the amount of pass-on likely to be
9

2

We note that supporters of the offensive use of pass-on, other than

litigants m particular cases, generally have not contended for a halfway
rejection of Hanover Shoe that would permit offensive use of pass-on in
some types of market situations but not in others. See, e. g., Tr. of Oral
Arg. 57 (United States as amicus curiae), Note, The Defense of "Passing
On" in Treble Damage Suits Under the Antitrust Laws, 70 Yale L. J.
469, 476, 478 (1961), commentators cited inn. 11, supra.

ILLINOIS BRICK CO. v. ILLINOIS
720

Opinion of the Court

involved and its susceptibility of proof in a judicial forum
would entail the very problems that the Hanover Shoe rule
was meant to avoid. The litigation over where the line should
be drawn in a particular class of cases would inject the same
"massive evidence and complicated theories" into trebledamages proceedings, albeit at a somewhat higher level of generality As we have noted, supra, at 735-736, Hanover Shoe
itself implicitly discouraged the creation of exceptions to its
rule barring pass-on defenses, and we adhere to the narrow
scope of exemption indicated by our decision there.
The concern in Hanover Shoe for the complexity that would
be introduced into treble-damages suits if pass-on theories were
permitted was closely related to the Court's concern for the
reduction in the effectiveness of those suits if brought by indirect purchasers with a smaller stake in the outcome than
that of direct purchasers suing for the full amount of the
overcharge. The apportionment of the recovery throughout
the distribution chain would increase the overall costs of
recovery by injecting extremely complex issues into the case,
at the same time such an apportionment would reduce the
benefits to each plaintiff by dividing the potential recovery
among a much larger group. Added to the uncertainty of how
much of an overcharge could be established at trial would be
the uncertainty of how that overcharge would be apportioned
among the various plaintiffs. This additional uncertainty
would further reduce the incentive to sue. The combination of
increasing the costs and diffusing the benefits of bringing a
treble-damages action could seriously impair this important
weapon of antitrust enforcement.
We think the longstanding policy of encouraging vigorous
private enforcement of the antitrust laws, see, e. g., Perma Life
Mufflers, Inc. v Internattonal Parts Corp., 392 U S. 134, 139
(1968), supports our adherence to the Hanover Shoe rule,
under which direct purchasers are not only spared the burden

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
Opinion of the Court

431 U. S.

of litigating the intricacies of pass-on but also are permitted
to recover the full amount of the overcharge. We recognize
that direct purchasers sometimes may refrain from bringing
a treble-damages suit for fear of disrupting relations with their
suppliers."0 But on balance, and until there are clear directions from Congress to the contrary, we conclude that the
legislative purpose in creating a group of "'private attorneys
general'" to enforce the antitrust laws under § 4, Hawaii
v Standard Oil Co. of Cal., 405 U S., at 262, is better
served by holding direct purchasers to be injured to the full
extent of the overcharge paid by them than by attempting to
apportion the overcharge among all that may have absorbed
a part of it.
It is true that, in elevating direct purchasers to a preferred
position as private attorneys general, the Hanover Shoe rule
denies recovery to those indirect purchasers who may have
been actually injured by antitrust violations. Of course, as
MR. JUsTiCE BPENNAN points out in dissent, "from the deterrence standpoint, it is irrelevant to whom damages are paid,
so long as some one redresses the violation." Post, at 760.
But § 4 has another purpose in addition to deterring violators
and depriving them of "the fruits of their illegality," Han,
over Shoe, 392 U S., at 494, it is also designed to compensate
victims of antitrust violations for their injuries. E g., Brunswzck Corp. v Pueblo Bowl-O-Mat, Inc., 429 U S. 477, 485Hanover Shoe does further the goal of compen486 (1977)
sation to the extent that the direct purchaser absorbs at least
some and often most of the overcharge. In view of the considerations supporting the Hanover Shoe rule, we are unwilling to carry the compensation principle to its logical extreme
by attempting to allocate damages among all "those within
the defendant's chain of distribution," post, at 761, especially
30

See, e. g., In re Western Liquid Asphalt Cases, 487 F 2d, at 198;
Wheeler, Antitrust Treble-Damage Actions: Do They Work?, 61 Calif. L.
Rev 1319, 1325 (1973)

ILLINOIS BRICK CO. v. ILLINOIS
720

Opinion of the Court

because we question the extent to which such an attempt
would make individual victims whole for actual injuries suffered rather than simply depleting the overall recovery in
litigation over pass-on issues. Many of the indirect purchasers barred from asserting pass-on claims under the Hanover
Shoe rule have such a small stake in the lawsuit that even if
they were to recover as part of a class, only a small fraction
would be likely to come forward to collect their damages."'
And given the difficulty of ascertaining the amount absorbed
by any particular indirect purchaser, there is little basis for
believing that the amount. of the recovery would reflect the
actual injury suffered.
31 Commentators have noted that recoveries in treble-damages actions
aggregating large numbers of small claims often have failed to compensate
the individuals on behalf of whom the suits have been brought. E. g.,
Handler, The Shift from Substantive to Procedural Innovations in Antitrust Suits-the Twenty-Third Annual Antitrust Review, 71 Colum. L.
Rev 1, 9-10 (1971), Wheeler, supra, n. 30, at 1339; Kirkham, Complex
Civil Litigation-Have Good Intentions Gone Awry?, 70 F R. D. 199,
206-207 (1976).
The dissenting opinion of MR JusTim BPNNAN appears to suggest
that the 1976 parens patnae legislation, see n. 14, supra, provides an
answer to this problem of compensating indirect purchasers for small
injuries. Post, at 764 n. 23. Quite to the contrary, the Act "recognizes
that rarely, if ever, will all potential claimants actually come forward to
secure their share of the recovery," and that "the undistributed portion
will often be substantial." H. R. Rep. No. 94-499,
of the fund
p. 16 (1975). The portion of the fund recovered in a parens patnae
action that is not used to compensate the actual injuries of antitrust
deposited with the State
victims is to be used as "a civil penalty
as general revenues," Clayton Act § 4E (2), 15 U. S. C. § 15e (2)
(1976 ed.), enacted by the 1976 Act, or "for some public purposes
benefiting, as closely as possible, the class of injured persons," such as
reducing the price of the overcharged goods in future sales. H. R. Rep.
No. 94499, supra, at 16. That Congress chose to provide such innovative methods of distributing damages awarded m a parens patnae action
under newly enacted § 4C of the Clayton Act, 15 U. S. C. § 15c (1976
ed.), does not eliminate the obstacles to compensating indirect purchasers bringing traditional suits under § 4.

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
BRaNNAN,

J., dissenting

431 U. S.

For the reasons stated, the judgment is reversed, and the
case is remanded for further proceedings consistent with this
opinion.
So ordered.
MR. JusTIcE BRENNAN, with whom MR. JUSTICE MARSHALL
and MR. JusTIE BLACKmuN join, dissenting.

Respondent State of Illinois brought this treble-damages
civil antitrust action under § 4 of the Clayton Act on behalf
of itself and various local governmental entities in the Greater
Chicago area alleging that an overcharge in the price of
concrete block used in the construction of public buildings
was made by the petitioners, manufacturers and sellers of
concrete block, pursuant to a price-fixing conspiracy m violation of § 1 of the Sherman Act, 15 U S. C. § 1.' Section 4 of
the Clayton Act, 38 Stat. 731, 15 U S. C. § 15, broadly provides: "[A]ny person who shall be injured in his business or
property by reason of anything forbidden in the antitrust laws
and shall recover threefold the damages
may sue therefor
by him sustained
Decisions of the Court defining the reach of § 4 have been
consistent with its broad objectives: to compensate victims of
antitrust violations and to deter future violations. The Court
has stated that § 4 "does not confine its protection to consum[but]
ers, or to purchasers, or to competitors, or to sellers
is comprehensive in its terms and coverage, protecting all who
are made victims of the forbidden practices by whomever they
may be perpetrated." Mandeville Island Farms, Inc. v
American Crystal Sugar Co., 334 U S. 219, 236 (1948) 2
1

The block was sold to various general and special contractors who had
successfully bid to construct public buildings. The State was thus an
indirect purchaser of the block.
2There is, of course, a point beyond which antitrust defendants should
not be held responsible for the remote consequences of their actions. See
the discussion in Part III, infra, at 760-761.

ILLINOIS BRICK CO. v. ILLINOIS
720

BRENNAN,

J., dissenting

Today's decision that § 4 affords a remedy only to persons who
purchase directly from an antitrust offender is a regrettable
retreat from that line of cases. Section 4 was clearly intended
to operate to protect individual consumers who purchase
through middlemen. Indeed, Congress acted on the premise
that § 4 gave a cause of action to indirect as well as direct
purchasers when it recently enacted the Hart-Scott-Rodino
Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, 90 Stat. 1394-1396, 15
U S. C. § 15c et seq. (1976 ed.), and authorized state attorneys general to sue as parens patrzae to recover damages on
behalf of citizens of their various States.
Today's decision flouts Congress' purpose and severely
undermines the effectiveness of the private treble-damages
action as an instrument of antitrust enforcement. For in
many instances, the brunt of antitrust injuries is borne by
indirect purchasers, often ultimate consumers of a product, as
increased costs are passed along the chain of distribution.'
In these instances, the Court's decision frustrates both the
compensation and deterrence objectives of the treble-damages
action. Injured consumers are precluded from recovering
damages from manufacturers, and direct purchasers who act
as middlemen have little incentive to sue suppliers so long as
they may pass on the bulk of the illegal overcharges to the
ultimate consumers. This frustration of the congressional
scheme is in no way mandated by Hanover Shoe, Inc. v
United Shoe Machinery Corp., 392 U S. 481 (1968). To the
contrary, the same considerations that Hanover Shoe held
3

The portion of an illegal overcharge that a direct purchaser can pass
on depends upon the elasticity of demand m the relevant product market.
If the market is relatively inelastic, he may pass on a relatively large

portion. If demand is relatively elastic, he may not be able to raise his
price and will have to absorb the increase, making it up by decreasing

other costs or increasing sales volume. It is extremely unlikely that a
middleman could pass on the entire cost increase. But rarely would he
have to absorb the entire increase. R. Posner, Antitrust Cases, Economic

Notes, and Other Materials 147-149 (1974).

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
BRENNAN, J., dissenting

431 U. S.

required rejection of the defendant's argument there, that
because plaintiff had passed on cost increases to consumers in
the form of higher prices defendant should be relieved of
liability-especially the consideration that it is essential to
the public interest to preserve the effectiveness of the private
treble-damages action-require affirmance of the decision below
construing § 4 to authorize respondents' suit.

I
In Hanover Shoe, supra,the Court held that a defendant in

a treble-damages action could not escape liability, except in
very limited circumstances, 4 by proof that the plaintiff had
passed on illegal overcharges to others farther along in the
chain of distribution.' The defendant in Hanover Shoe,
United Shoe, argued that Hanover was not entitled to recover
damages because the increased price it had paid for United's
equipment I had in turn been reflected in the increased price
at which Hanover had sold its shoes to the consuming public.
The Court held that several reasons supported its conclusion
that this defense was not available to United despite "the
argument that sound laws of economics require" its recognition, 392 U S., at 492. First, the Court followed earlier cases
holding that the "victim of an overcharge is [immediately]
4 The opinion recognizes that "there nght be situations-for instance,
when an overcharged buyer has a pre-existing 'cost-plus' contract, thus
making it easy to prove that he has not been damaged-where the
considerations requiring that the passing-on defense not be permitted in
this case would not be present." 392 U. S., at 494.
5 Hanover Shoe, did not involve the consumers of the plaintiff's shoes,
to whom the overcharge allegedly was passed. United's passing-on
argument is referred to as "defensive" passing on. The State's position,
seeking recovery of illegal overcharges allegedly passed on to it and its
citizens,
is referred to as "offensive" passing on.
6
Hanover alleged that United monopolized the shoe machinery industry
in violation of § 2 of the Sherman Act by its practice of leasing but
refusing to sell its shoemaking machinery

ILLINOIS BRICK CO. v. ILLINOIS
720

BRENiwAN, J., dissenting

damaged within the meaning of § 4 to the extent of that overcharge." Id., at 491. The particularly apt precedent supporting this proposition was Southern Pacific Co. v DarnellTaenzer Lumber Co., 245 U. S. 531 (1918),7 where a pass-on
defense had been rejected because of "[t]he general tendency
of the law, in regard to damages at least,
not to go
beyond the first step," and the Court's belief that "[t]he
carrier ought not to be allowed to retain his illegal profit, and
the only one who can take it from him is the one that alone was
in relation with him, and from whom the carrier took the
sum.
" Id., at 533-534. In other words, the requirement
of privity between plaintiff and defendant was a reason to deny
defendant the pass-on defense, since otherwise the defendant
would be able to profit by his own wrong. Hanover Shoe
cannot be read, however, as limiting actions to parties in
privity with one another. That was made clear in Perkins v
Standard Oil Co., 395 U S. 642, 648 (1969), decided the next
Term, a price discrimiation case in which the Court traced an
illegal overcharge through several levels in the chain of distribution, ultimately holding that a plaintiff seeking to recover
damages need show only a "causal connection between the price
discrimination in violation of the [antitrust laws] and the injury suffered.
If there is sufficient evidence in the record
to support an inference of causation, the ultimate conclusion
as to what that evidence proves is for the jury" DarnellTaenzer does, however, support Hanover Shoe's denial of the
pass-on defense for the other reasons relied upon in Hanover
Shoe: the difficulty of proving and quantifying a pass-on,
and the role of the treble-damages action as the most effective
means of antitrust enforcement. 392 U S., at 492-494.
The Court correctly discerned that the difficulty of recon7

In Darnell-PTaenzer, shippers brought suit for reparations against a
railroad claimig that the railroad had charged unreasonable rates. The
railroad argued that the shippers had in turn passed on to their customers
any excess over the reasonable rate.

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
BRENNAN,

J., dissenting

431 U. S.

structing hypothetical pricing decisions,8 would aggravate the
already complex nature of antitrust litigation since pass-on
defenses would become commonplace whenever the chain of
distribution extended beyond the plaintiff. This would lessen
the effectiveness of the treble-damages action, since ultimate
consumers individually often suffer only minor damages and
therefore have little incentive to bring suit. Liniting defendants' liability to the loss of profits suffered by direct
purchasers would thus allow the antitrust offender to avoid
having to pay the full social cost of his illegal conduct in
many cases in which indirect purchasers failed to bring suit.
Consequently,
"those who violate the antitrust laws by price fixing or
monopolizing would retain the fruits of their illegality
because no one was available who would bring suit against
them. Treble damage actions, the importance of which
the Court has many times emphasized, would be substantially reduced in effectiveness." Id., at 494.
Hanover Shoe thus confronted the Court with the choice, as
had been true in Darnell-Taenzer,of interpreting § 4 in a way
that might overcompensate the plaintiff, who had certainly
suffered some injury, or of defining it in a way that underdeters the violator by allowing him to retain a portion of his
ill-gotten overcharges. The Court chose to interpret § 4 so as
to allow the plaintiff to recover for the entire overcharge.
This choice was consistent with recognition of the importance
8

"[T]he impact of a single change in the relevant conditions cannot be
measured after the fact; indeed a businessman may be unable to state
, he would have chosen a different
whether, had one fact been different
" 392 U. S., at 492-493. The Court further observed that it is
price.
equally difficult to ascertain "what effect a change in a company's
price will have on its total sales", and it is all but impossible to demonstrate that the particular plaintiff "could not or would not have raised his
prices absent the overcharge or maintained the higher price had the
overcharge been discontinued." Id., at 493. See generally Posner, supra,
n. 3, at 147-149.

ILLINOIS BRICK CO. v. ILLINOIS
720

BRENNAN, J., dissenting

of the treble-damages action in deterring antitrust violations.'
But Hanover Shoe certainly did not imply that an indirect
purchaser would not also have a cause of action under § 4
when the illegal overcharges were passed on to him.
Despite the superficial appeal of the argument that Hanover
Shoe should be applied "consistently," thus precluding plaintiffs and defendants alike from proving that increased costs
were passed along the chain of distribution, there are sound
reasons for treating offensive and defensive passing-on cases
differently The interests at stake in "offensive" passing-on
cases, where the indirect purchasers sue for damages for their
injuries, are simply not the same as the interests at stake in
the Hanover Shoe, or "defensive" passing-on situation. There
is no danger in this case, for example, as there was in Hanover
Shoe, that the defendant will escape liability and frustrate
the objectives of the treble-damages action. Rather, the same
policies of insuring the continued effectiveness of the trebledamages action and preventing wrongdoers from retaining the
spoils of their misdeeds favor allowing indirect purchasers to
prove that overcharges were passed on to them. Hanover
Shoe thus can and should be limited to cases of defensive
assertion of the passing-on defense to antitrust liability,
where direct and indirect purchasers are not parties in the
same action." I fully agree with the observation.
"The attempt to transform a rejection of a defense
9
The pass-on defense in Hanover Shoe was asserted by a defendant
against whom a prnma facie case of liability had already been made out.
The Clayton Act provides: "A final judgment
rendered in any
civil or criminal proceeding brought by or on behalf of the United States
under the antitrust laws
shall be prima facie evidence against such
defendant
" 15 U. S. C. § 16 (a). The Government had secured
a judgment against United in United States v United Shoe Machinery
Corp., 110 F Supp. 295 (Mass. 1953), summarily aff'd, 347 U. S. 521

(1954)
10 Commentators almost unammously conclude that, despite Hanover
Shoe, § 4 should be construed to authorize indirect purchasers to recover

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
BRENNAN,

J., dissenting

431 U. S.

because it unduly hampers antitrust enforcement into a
reason for a complete refusal to entertain the clauns of a
certain class of plaintiffs seems an ingenious attempt to
turn the decision [in Hanover Shoe] and its underlying
rationale on its head." In re Master Key Antitrust Littgation, 1973-2 Trade Cas. 1174,680, pp. 94,978-94,979
(Conn.)
II
A
Today's decision goes far to frustrate Congress' objectives
in creating the treble-damages action. Treble-damages actions
were first authorized under § 7 of the Sherman Act, 26 Stat.
210. The legislative history of this section shows that it
was conceived primarily as a remedy for "[t]he people of
the United States as individuals," especially for consumers.
See, e. g., 21 Cong. Rec. 1767-1768 (1890) (remarks of Sen.
George), see also td., at 2612 (Sens. Teller and Reagan), 2615
(Sen. Coke), 2640 (Sen. Spooner). 1 In thfe Clayton Act of
upon proof that increases were passed on to them. See, e. g., Comment,
Standing to Sue m Antitrust Cases: The Offensive Use of Passing-on, 123
U. Pa. L. Rev 976 (1975), Comment, Mangano and Ultimate-Consumer
Standing: The Misuse of the Hanover Doctrine, 72 Colum. L. Rev 394
(1972), Note, The Effect of Hanover Shoe on the Offensive Use of the
Passing-on Doctrine, 46 So. Cal. L. Rev 98 (1972)
But see Handler &
Blechman, Antitrust and the Consumer Interest: The Fallacy of Parens
Patrzae and A Suggested New Approach, 85 Yale L. J. 626, 638-655
(1976). In addition, most courts have read Hanover Shoe as not preventing mdirect purchasers from attempting to prove that they have been
injured. See, e. g., Yoder Bros., Inc. v Californm-FlordaPlant Corp.,
537 F 2d 1347 (CA5 1976), In re Western Liquid Asphalt Cases, 487 F
2d 191 (CA9 1973), cert. denied sub nom. Standard Oil Co. of Cal. v.
Alaska, 415 U. S.919 (1974), Illinois v Bristol-Myers Co., 152 U. S. App.
D. C. 367, 470 F 2d 1276 (1972), West Virginia v. Chas. Pfizer & Co.,
440 F 2d 1079 (CA2), cert. denied sub nom. Cotler Drugs, Inc. v. Chas.
Pfizer & Co., 404 U. S. 871 (1971), In re Master Key Antitrust Litigation, 1973-2 Trade Cas. 1 74,680 (Conn.)
:"A further indication of Congress' desire to create a remedy for all

ILLINOIS BRICK CO. v. ILLINOIS
720

BRENNAN,

J., dissenting

1914, Congress extended the § 7 remedy to persons injured by
"any violation of the antitrust laws." See Brunsunck Corp v
Pueblo Bowl-O-Mat, Inc., 429 U. S. 477, 486 n. 10 (1977),
citing H. R. Rep. No. 627, 63d Cong., 2d Sess., 14 (1914).
These actions were conceived primarily as "'open[ing] the
door of justice to every man, whenever he may be injured by
those who violate the antitrust laws, and giv[ing] the injured
party ample damages for the wrong suffered."' I Brunswick,
supra, at 486 n. 10, quoting 51 Cong. Rec. 9073 (1914)
(remarks of Rep. Webb), see, e. g., sd., at 9079 (Rep.
Volstead), 9270 (Rep. Carlin), 9414-9417, 9466-9467, 94879495. See also the House debates following the conference
committee report. Id., at 16274-16275 (Rep. Webb), 1631716319 (Rep. Floyd)
The Court has interpreted § 4 broadly, this in recognition
of the plainly stated congressional objective, Northern Pacific
R. Co. v United States, 356 U S. 1, 4 (1958), that the private
treble-damages action play a paramount role in the enforcement of the fundamental economic policy of the Nation,
Zenith Radio Corp. v Hazeltine Research, Inc., 395 U S. 100,
130-131 (1969), Minnesota Mining & Mfg. Co. v New Jersey
Wood Fintshing Co., 381 U S. 311, 318 (1965), and has
concluded that "the purposes of the antitrust laws are best
served by insuring that the private action will be an everpresent threat to deter anyone contemplating business behavior in violation of the antitrust laws." Perma Life Mufflers,
Inc. v InternationalParts Corp., 392 U S. 134, 139 (1968).
The federal courts have accordingly been cautioned "not [to]
persons, including consumers, even though their individual injuries might
be comparatively slight, was the elimination of the jurisdictional-amount
requirement for antitrust actions. See 21 Cong. Rec. 2612, 3148-3149
(1890) (remarks of Sens. Sherman and Edmunds).
12The fact that damages are trebled both aids deterrence and provides
the incentive of compensation, since it encourages suits for relatively minor
injuries.

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
BRENNAN,

J., dissenting

431 U. S.

add requirements to burden the private litigant beyond what
is specifically set forth by Congress in [the antitrust] laws,"
Radowch v National Football League, 352 U S. 445, 454
(1957), and express approval has been given the "'tendency of
the courts
to find some way in which damages can be
awarded where a wrong has been done. Difficulty of ascertainment is no longer confused with right of recovery' for a
proven invasion of the plaintiff's rights." Bzgelow v RKO
Radio Pictures,327 U S. 251, 265-266 (1946). See also Zenith
Radio Corp. v Hazeltine Research, Inc., supra, at 130-131,
Perma Life Mufflers, Inc. v InternatonalParts Corp., supra,
Hanover Shoe, Inc. v United Shoe Machinery Corp., 392 U S.,
at 494. And Radiant Burners, Inc. v Peoples Gas LDght &
Coke Co., 364 U S.656, 660 (1961), emphasized that to plead
a cause of action under § 4 "allegations adequate to show a
violation and
that plaintiff was damaged thereby are all
the law requires."
B
The recently enacted Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976 was expressly adopted to create "an effective
mechanism to permit consumers to recover damages for conduct which is prohibited by the Sherman Act, by giving State
attorneys general a cause of action [to sue as parens patrzae on

behalf of the States' citizens] against antitrust violators." S.
Rep. No. 94-803, p. 6 (1976) Title III of the new Act responded to the holding of Hawaii v Standard Oil Co. of Cal.,
405 U S.251 (1972), that the Clayton Act does not authorize
a State to sue for damages for an injury to its general economy
allegedly attributable to a violation of the antitrust laws.
The Senate Report accompanying the new Act expressly
found that "[t]he economic burden of most antitrust violations is borne by the consumer in the form of higher prices
for goods and services," S. Rep. No. 94-803, supra, at 39,
and it is clear that the new Act is intended to provide a remedy

ILLINOIS BRICK CO. v. ILLINOIS

720

BRENNAN, J., dissenting

for injured consumers whether or not they purchased directly
from the violator. The Senate Report states, 7d., at 42:
"A direct cause of action is granted the States to avoid
the inequities and inconsistencies of restrictive judicial
Section 40 is intended to assure
interpretations.
that consumers are not precluded from the opportunity of
proving the amount of their damage and to avoid problems with respect to manageability [of class actions],
3
standing,privity, target area, remoteness, and the like."'
(Emphasis supplied.)
Representative Rodino, a sponsor, stated during the House
debates:
"[A]ssummg the State attorney general proves a violation, and proves that an overcharge was 'passed on' to
the consumers, injuring them 'in their property', that is,
their pocketbooks-recoveries are authorized by the compromise bill whether or not the consumers purchased
directly from the price fixer, or indirectly, from intermediaries, retailers, or middlemen. The technical and
procedural argument that consumers have no 'standing'
whenever they are not 'in privity' with the price fixer,
and have not purchased directly from him, is rejected by
the compromise bill. Opinions relying on this procedural
13 Congress re3ected earlier Court of Appeals and District Court decisions
erecting standing barriers to suits by indirect purchasers and chose instead
to pattern the Act "after such innovative decisions as In re Wcstern
Liquid Asphalt Cases, 487 F 2d 191 (9th Cir. 1973), In re Master Key
Litigation, 1973 Trade Cases 74,680 and 1975 Trade Cases 60,377 (DC
Conn.), State of Illinows v. Ampress Brnck Co., 1975 Trade Cases 60,295
(DC Ill.) [this case below], Carnvale Bag Co. v. Slide Rite Mfg., 1975
Trade Cases 60,370 (S. D. N. Y.), In re Antibzotics Antitruswt Actions,
333 F Supp. 278 (S. D. N. Y. 1971), and West Virgzma v. Charles
Pfizer & Co., 440 F 2d 1079 (2d Cir. 1971)." Congress accepted these
decisions as correctly stating the law. S. Rep. No. 94-803, pp. 42-43
(1976).

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
BRENNAN,

J., dissenting

431 U. S.

technicality
are squarely rejected by the compromise
bill." 122 Cong. Rec. H10295 (daily ed. Sept. 16, 1976).
It is difficult to see how Congress could have expressed
itself more clearly Even if the question whether indirect
purchasers could recover for damages passed on to them was
open before passage of the 1976 Act, and I do not believe that
it was, Congress' interpretation of § 4 in enacting the parens
patrzae provision should resolve it in favor of their authority
to sue. Indeed, the House Report accompanying the bill
actually referred to the opinon of the District Court in this
case as an example of the correct answer. N. 13, supra. The
Court's tortuous efforts to impose a "consistency" upon this
area of the law that Congress has so clearly rejected is a
return to the "legal somersaults and twistings and turnings"
of the Court's earlier opinions that ultimately led to the
passage of the Clayton Act in 1914 to salvage the ailing
Sherman Act.. See 51 Cong. Rec. 9086 (1914) (remarks of
Rep. Kelly).
III
Hanover Shoe correctly observed that the necessity of
tracing a cost increase through several levels of a chain of
distribution "would often require additional long and complicated proceedings involving massive evidence and complicated
theories." 392 U S., at 493. But this may be said of almost
all antitrust cases. Hanover Shoe itself highlights this unavoidable complication, in that it requires the plaintiff to prove
a probable course of events which would have occurred but
for the violation.- In essence, estimating the amount of
- In Hanover Shoe, the measure of damages was the difference between
the amount Hanover paid for the lease and the amount it would have pad
had United agreed to sell the machinery It has been suggested that the
burden of demonstrating a pass-on may be no more difficult or speculative
than the plaintiff's initial task of proving an overcharge in the first
instance. See Pollock, Automatic Treble Damages and the Passing-on
Defense: The Hanover Shoe Decision, 13 Antitrust Bull. 1183, 1210 (1968).

ILLINOIS BRICK CO. v. ILLINOIS
720

BRENNAN, J., dissenting

damages passed on to an indirect purchaser is no different from
and no more complicated than estimating what the middleman's selling price would have been, absent the violation. See
ante, at 733 n. 13.
Nor should the fact that the price-fixed product in this case
(the concrete block) was combined with another product (the
buildings) before resale operate as an absolute bar to recovery
It may well be true, as the State claims, that the cost of the
block was included separately in the project bids and therefore
can be factored out from the price of the building with
relative certainty In any case, this is a factual matter to be
determined based on the strength of the plaintiff's evidence.1 5
See, e. g., In re Western Liquid Asphalt Cases, 487 F 2d 191
(CA9 1973), cert. denied sub nom. Standard Oil Co. of Cal. v
Alaska, 415 U S. 919 (1974) Admittedly, there will be many
cases in which the plaintiff will be unable to prove that the
overcharge was passed on. In others, the portion of the overcharge passed on may be only approximately determinable.
But again, this problem hardly distinguishes this case from
other antitrust cases. Reasoned estimation is required in all
antitrust cases, but "while the damages [in such cases] may
not be determined by mere speculation or guess, it will be
enough if the evidence show the extent of the damages as a
matter of just and reasonable inference, although the result be
only approximate." Story Parchment Co. v Paterson Co.,
282 U S. 555, 563 (1931)
See also Bgelow v RKO Radio
Pictures, 327 U S., at 266, Eastman Kodak Co. v Southern
Photo Materals Co., 273 U S. 359, 379 (1927)
Lack of precision in apportioning damages between direct and indirect
purchasers is thus plainly not a convincing reason for denying
15 One commentator has suggested that, in deciding whether to permit
recovery by indirect purchasers in a particular case, courts should consider
the number of intervening hands the product has passed through and the
extent of its change in the process. P Areeda, Antitrust Analysis:
Problems, Text, Cases 75 (2d ed. 1974).

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
BRENNAN,

J., dissenting

431 U. S.

indirect purchasers an opportunity to prove their injuries and
damages. Moreover, from the deterrence standpoint, it is
irrelevant to whom damages are paid, so long as someone
redresses the violation. Antitrust violators are equally deterred whether the judgments against them are in favor of
direct or indirect purchasers. Hanover Shoe said as much.
The Court's decision recognized that some plaintiffs would
recover more than their due, but concluded that the necessity
of assuring that someone recover and thus deter future violations and prevent the antitrust offender from profiting by his
.dilegal overcharge outweighed any resulting injustice."
I concede that despite the broad wording of § 4 there is a

point beyond which the wrongdoer should not be held liable.
See, e. g., Brunsunck Corp. v Pueblo Bowl-O-Mat, Inc., 429
U S. 477 (1977), Hawaii v Standard Oil Co. of Cal., 405 U S.
251 (1972)
Courts have therefore developed various tests of
antitrust "standing," not unlike the concept of proximate cause
in tort law, to define that point. The definition has been
variously articulated, usually in terms of two tests. The more
restrictive test focuses on the directness of the injury; '1 the
more liberal, and more widely accepted, on whether the plaintiff is within the "target area" of the defendant's violation."
holding is consistent with the Court's continuing concern for the
effectiveness of the treble-damages action, which has been sustained even
when the plaintiff was "no less morally reprehensible than the defendant"
with whom he had conspired. Perma Life Mufflers, Inc. v Internatonal
Parts Corp., 392 U. S. 134, 139 (1968).
17 See, e. g., Loeb v Eastman Kodak Co., 183 F 704 (CA3 1910).
8
Pueblo Bowl-O-Mat, Inc.,
1 Earlier this Term, Brunswzck Corp. v
disallowed a -treble-damages recovery, stating that in order to recover
antitrust plaintiffs must prove "antitrust injury, which is to say injury of
the type the antitrust laws were intended to prevent and that flows from
that which makes [the] defendants' acts unlawful." 429 U. S., at 489.
At least one Court of Appeals has rephrased the target-area test in terms
of whether the injury to the plaintiff is a reasonably foreseeable consequence
of the defendant's illegal conduct. Mulvey v Samuel Goldwyn Productions, 433 F 2d 1073 (CA9 1970), cert. denied, 402 U. S. 923 (1971).
16 This

ILLINOIS BRICK CO. v. ILLINOIS
720

BRENwAN,

J., dissenting

But if the broad language of § 4 means anything, surely it must
render the defendant liable to those within the defendant's
chain of distribution. It would indeed be "paradoxical to
deny recover to the ultimate consumer while permitting the
P Areeda, Antitrust
middlemen a windfall recovery"
Analysis: Problems, Text, Cases 75 (2d ed. 1974).
IV
I acknowledge some abstract merit in the argument that to
allow indirect purchasers to sue, while, at the same time,
precluding defendants from asserting pass-on defenses in suits
by direct purchasers, subjects antitrust defendants to the risk
of multiple liability But as a practical matter, existing
procedural mechanisms can eliminate this danger in most
instances. Even though, as the Court says, no procedure
currently exists which can eliminate the possibility entirely,
ante, at 731 n. 11, the hypothetical possibility that a few
defendants might be subjected to the danger of multiple
liability does not, in my view, justify erecting a bar against all
recoveries by indirect purchasers without regard to whether
the particular case presents a significant danger of double
recovery The "double recovery" specter was argued in the
Congress that passed the Hart-Scott-Rodino Act, and was
rejected. The Senate Report recorded the Act's purpose to
codify the holding of the Court of Appeals for the Ninth
Circuit in In re Western Liquzd Asphalt Cases, supra:
"'We therefore see no problem of double tecovery, and
we believe that if this difficulty should arise in some other
connection, the district court will be able to fashion relief
accordingly In addition to the court's control over its
decree, numerous devices exist. We note that the consolidation of cases, which has already occurred, is one
means of averting duplicitous awards. The short, fouryear statute of limitations is another; later suits, after

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
BRENNAN, J., dissenting

431 U. S.

final judgment herein, are unlikely 15 U S. C. § 15b.
In other cases, it may be that statutory interpleader, 28
U S. C. § 1335, could be used by antitrust defendants to
avoid double liability If necessary, special masters may
be appointed to handle complex cases. Finally, there are
the doctrines of res judicata and collateral estoppel and
procedures for compulsory joinder. The day is long past
when courts, particularly federal courts, will deny relief
to a deserving plaintiff merely because of procedural
difficulties or problems of apportioning damages.'
"We would prefer to place the burden of proving apportionment upon appellees, rather than deny all recovery
to appellants. Such a burden would be the consequence
of appellees' illegal acts, not appellants' suits. Where the
choice is between a windfall to intermediaries or letting
guilty defendants go free, liability is imposed. Hanover
Shoe, supra, 392 U S. at 494. So, too, between ultimate
purchasers and defendants." S. Rep. No. 94-803, p. 44
(1976), quoting 487 F 2d, at 201 (citation omitted).
Moreover, the possibility of multiple recovery arises in only
two situations: (1) where suits by direct and indirect purchasers are pending at the same time but in different courts,
and (2) where additional suits are filed after an award of
damages based on the same violation in a prior suit.19 In the
first situation, the United States, Brief as Amicus Curmae 25,
cogently points out that district courts may make use of the
alternatives suggested by the Manual for Complex Litigation,
district courts
1 (pt. 2) J Moore, Federal Practice (1976)
may use the intradistrict transfer power created by 28 U S. C.
§ 1404 (b), coordinate pretrial proceedings of cases pending in
19 If direct and indirect purchasers bring suit in the same court, the
cases may be consolidated and damages allocated m accordance with
Fed. Rule Civ Proc. 42 (a). See West Virginza v Chas. Pfizer & Co.,
440 F 2d 1079 (CA2 1971)

ILLINOIS BRICK CO. v. ILLINOIS
720

BRENNAN, J., dissenting

different districts, or transfer cases to a single district pursuant
to § 1404 (a) In addition, the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict
Litigation is empowered by 28 U S. C. § 1407 to transfer cases
involving common questions of fact to any district for coordinated pretrial proceedings upon its determination that the
transfer "will be for the convenience of parties and witnesses
and will promote the just and efficient conduct of such actions."
After pretrial transfers under this section, cases can be consolidated and transferred to the same district for trial pursuant
to the transfer power under § 1404 (a) .

A further device

mentioned in Western Lzquid Asphalt is statutory interpleader
under 28 U. S. C. § 1335, by which the defendant can bring
all potential plaintiffs into the same court and require them
to litigate nter se to determine their appropriate shares of the
total recovery 21
True, there is a greater hypothetical danger of multiple
recovery where suits are independently instituted after an
earlier suit based on the same violation has proceeded to
judgment.22 But even here the likelihood that defendants
20 For a discussion of this process, see Note, The Judicial Panel and the

Conduct of Multidistnct Litigation, 87 Harv L. Rev 1001 (1974),
Comment, The Experience of Transferee Courts Under the Multidistrict
Litigation Act, 39 U. Ctn.L. Rev 588 (1972).
21
Petitioners suggest that interpleader may be an impractical alternative
for some defendants, since it requires a defendant to complicate the suit
by bringing in ultimate consumers and to post bond for the amount in
controversy See 28 U. S. C. § 1335 (a) (2). Although § 1335 clearly
places a burden upon defendants who elect to use it in order to avoid
potential multiple liability, that burden is not unique to antitrust cases,
and Congress has clearly indicated that it considers the burden justified.
See S. Rep. No. 94-803, p. 4 4 (1976).
22 The problem of potential multiple recoveries is not present m this case.
All suits against petitioners were filed in the Northern District of Illinois.
Petitioners never sought consolidation under Fed. Rule Civ Proc. 42 (a)
and stipulated m settlements with direct purchasers that the settlement
would not affect the rights of indirect purchasers.

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
BRENxAix, J., dissenting

431 U. S.

will be subjected to multiple liability is, as a practical matter,
remote. The extended nature of antitrust actions, often
involving years of discovery, combines with the short fouryear statute of limitations to make it impractical for potential
plaantiffs to sit on their rights until after entry of judgment
in the earlier suit.
The Court today regrettably weakens the effectiveness of the
private treble-damages action as a deterrent to antitrust violations by, in most cases, precluding consumers from recovering
for antitrust injuries. For in many instances, consumers,
although indirect purchasers, bear the brunt of antitrust
violations. To deny them an opportunity for recovery is
particularly indefensible when direct purchasers, acting as
middlemen, and ordinarily reluctant to sue their suppliers,"
pass on the bulk of their increased costs to consumers farther
along the chain of distribution. Congress has given us a
clear signal that § 4 is not to be read to have the restrictive
23

The opinion for the Court "recognize[s] that direct purchasers sometimes may refrain from brnging a treble-damages suit for fear of disrupting
relations with their suppliers," but concludes that "on balance, and until
there are clear directions from Congress to the contrary, we conclude that
the legislative purpose in creating a group of 'private attorneys general'
to enforce the antitrust laws
is better served by holding direct
purchasers to be injured to the full extent of the overcharge paid by them
than by attempting to apportion the overcharge among all that may have
absorbed a part of it." Ante, at 746. But the intent of Congress in
enacting the parens patrae provision of the 1976 Act was clearly to
provide a mechanism to permit recovery by consumers, and this purpose
is not furthered by a rule that will keep most consumers out of court.
The Court's opinion further observes that "[m]any of the indirect
purchasers barred from asserting pass-on claims
have such a small
stake in the lawsuit that even if they were to recover as part of a class,
only a small fraction would be likely to come forward to collect their
damages." Ante, at 747 Yet it was precisely because of judicially perceived weaknesses in the class action as a device for consumer recovery
for antitrust violations that Congress enacted the parens patrnae provision
of the 1976 Act.

ILLINOIS BRICK CO. v. ILLINOIS
720

BLACKMUN, J., dissenting

scope ascribed to it by the Court today I would follow the
congressional understanding and therefore would affirm.2 4
dissenting.
I regard MR. JuSTICE BRENNAN'S dissenting opinion as persuasive and convincing, and I join it without hesitation.
I add these few sentences only to say that I think the plaintiffs-respondents in this case, which they now have lost, are the
victims of an unhappy chronology If Hanover Shoe, Inc. v
United Shoe Machinery Corp., 392 U S. 481 (1968), had not
preceded this case, and were it not "on the books," I am positive that the Court today would be affirming, perhaps unamMR. JusTIcE BLACKMUN,

mously, the judgment of the Court of Appeals.

The policy

behind the Antitrust Acts and all the signs point in that direction, and a conclusion in favor of indirect purchasers who
could demonstrate injury would almost be compelled.
But Hanover Shoe is on the books, and the Court feels that
it must be "consistent" in its application of pass-on. That,
24

Abundant authority sanctions deference to congressional indications

in subsequent legislation regarding the congressional meaning in earlier

Acts worded consistently with that meaning. NLRB v. Bell Aerospace
Co., 416 U. S. 267, 275 (1974), Red Lion Broadcasting Co. v FCC, 395
U. S. 367, 380 (1969), FHA v. The Darlington, Inc., 358 U. S. 84, 90
(1958), United States v Stafoff, 260 U. S. 477, 480 (1923), New York &
Norfolk R. Co. v. PeninsulaExchange, 240 U. S. 34, 39 (1916). Although
it is true, as the Court's opinion states, ante, at 734 n. 14, that the postenactment statements of "particular legislators" who participated in the
enactment of a statute cannot change its meaning, see Regional Rail Reorganization Act Cases, 419 U. S. 102, 132 (1974), quoting National Woodwork Manufacturers Assn. v. NLRB, 386 U. S. 612, 639 n. 34 (1967), in
this case, the House and Senate Reports accompanying the amendments
to § 4 of the Clayton Act clearly reveal the 94th Congress' interpretation
of that section as permitting the kind of consumer action which the Court
now prohibits. Moreover, it is no answer to this to say that the new
parens patriae provision will not in all cases directly compensate indirect
purchasers, ante, at 747 n. 31, for it is clear that despite the difficulty of
distributing benefits to such injured persons the new Act authorizes recovery by the State on their behalf.

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
BLAcKmUN, J., dissenting

431 U. S.

for me, is a wooden approach, and it is entirely inadequate
when considered in the light of the objectives of the Sherman
and Clayton Acts. The Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976 tells us all that is needed as to Congress' present understanding of the Acts. Nevertheless, we
must now await still another statute which, as the Court
acknowledges, ante, at 734 n. 14, the Congress may adopt.
One regrets that it takes so long and so much repetitious effort
to achieve, and have this Court recognize, the obvious congressional aim.

