LEFKOWITZ v CUNNINGHAM
Syllabus

LEFKOWITZ, ATTORNEY GENERAL OF NEW

YORK v. CUNNINGHAM

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THM
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK
No. 76-260. Argued February 28-March 1, 1977-Decided June 13, 1977
A New York statute provides that if an officer of a political party subpoenaed by a grand jury or other authorized tribunal to testify concerning the conduct of his office refuses to testify or to waive immunity
against subsequent criminal prosecution, his term of office shall ternnnate and he shall be disqualified from holding any other party or public
office for five years. -Appellee, an attorney, was divested of his state
political party offices pursuant to this statute when, in response to a
subpoena, he appeared before a grand jury and refused to waive his
constitutional immunity He then brought suit in Federal District
Court, which granted hin declaratory and injunctive relief against
enforcement of the statute on the ground that it violated his Fifth and
Fourteenth Amendment rights. Held. The statute violated appellee's
right to be free of compelled self-incrimination under the Fifth
Amendment. Pp. 804-809.
(a) Government cannot penalize assertion of the constitutional privilege against compelled self-incrimination by imposing sanctions to compel testimony that has not been immunized. Pp. 804-806.
(b) The statute was coercive against appellee because it threatened
him with loss of powerful offices and because the compelled forfeiture
of those offices would diminish his general reputation in the community, would, as economic consequences, harm his professional standing
as a practicing lawyer and bar him from holding any other party or
public office for five years, and would impinge on his First Amendment right to participate in private, voluntary political associations.

Pp. 807-SOS.
(c) The State's overriding interest in preserving public confidence in
the integrity of its political process is insufficient to justify forcing its
citizens to incriminate themselves. P 808.
(d) The State's dilemma in being forced to choose between an accounting from, and a prosecution of, a party officer is created by its
own transactional immunity law, whereas the more limited use immunity
required by the Fifth Amendment would permit the State to compel

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
Opinion of the Court

431 U. S.

testimony without forfeiting the opportunity to prosecute the witness on
the basis of evidence derived from other sources. Pp. 808-809.
420 F Supp. 1004, affirmed.
BURGER, C. J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which STEwART,
WHITE, BLACKMUN, and PowELL, JJ., joined, and m all but Part (4) of

which BRENNAN and MARSHALL, JJ., joined. BRENNAN, J., filed an
opinion concurring in part, in which MARSHALL, J., joined, post, p. 809.
STEVENS, J., filed a dissenting opinion, post, p. 810. REHNQUIST, J.,
took no part in the consideration or decision of the case.

Irmng Galt, Assistant Attorney General of New York,
argued the cause for appellant. With him on the brief were
Lous J Lefkowitz, Attorney General, pro se, and Mark C
Rutzwk, Assistant Attorney General.
Michael E. Tigar argued the cause for appellees. With him
on the brief were Edward Bennett Williams and Harold
Ungar *
MR. CHIEF JusTicE BURGER delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This appeal presents the question whether a political party
officer can be removed from his position by the State of New
York and barred for five years from holding any other party
or public office, because he has refused to waive his constitutional privilege against compelled self-incrimination.

(1)
Under § 22 of the New York Election Law,' an officer of a
*Burt Neuborne, Melvn L. Wulf, and Joel M. Gora filed a brief for
the American Civil Liberties Union et al. as amwz cunre urging affirmance.
"If any party officer shall, after lawful notice of process, wilfully refuse
or fail to appear before any court or judge, grand jury, legislative committee, officer, board or body authorized to conduct any hearing or
inquiry concerning the conduct of his party office or the performance of
his duties, or having appeared, shall refuse to testify or answer any
relevant question, or shall refuse to sign a waiver of immunity against
subsequent criminal prosecution, his term or tenure of office shall terminate,

LEFKOWITZ v. CUNNINGHAM
801

Opinion of the Court

political party may be subpoenaed by a grand jury or other
authorized tribunal and required to testify concerning his conduct of the party office he occupies. If the officer refuses to
answer any question, or if he declines to waive immunity from
the use of his testimony against him in a later prosecution, the
statute immediately terminates his party office and prohibits
him from holding any other party or public office for a period
of five years.
In December 1975, appellee Patrick J Cunningham (hereafter appellee) was subpoenaed pursuant to § 22 to appear and
testify before a special grand jury authorized to investigate
his conduct in the political offices he then held, which consisted of four unsalaried elective positions in the Democratic
Party of the State of New York.' Appellee moved to quash
the subpoena in the state courts, arguing in part that § 22
violated his federal constitutional right to be free of compelled
self-incrimination, his motion was denied. In re Cunnsngham
v Nadja, 51 App. Div 2d 927, 383 N. Y S. 2d 311, aff'd,
39 N. Y 2d 314, 347 N. E. 2d 915 (1976)
On April 12, 1976,
he appeared before the grand jury in response to the subpoena.
Appellee refused to sign a waiver of immunity form which
would have waived his constitutional right not to be compelled
to incriminate himself. 3 Because § 22 is self-executing, appelsuch office shall be vacant and he shall be disqualified from holding any
party or public office for a period of five years." N. Y. Elec. Law § 22
(McKinney 1964).
New York Election Law § 2 (9) (McKinney 1964) defines a party officer as "one who holds any party position or any party office whether
by2 election, appointment or otherwise."
Appellee was chairman of the State Democratic Committee and the
Bronx County Democratic Executive Committee, and a member of the
Executive Committee of the New York State Democratic Committee and
the Bronx County Democratic Executive Committee. We are advised
that appellee has recently resigned as chairman of the state organization.
He retains his other party offices.
3In the absence of an effective waiver, New York law would have
entitled appellee to transactional immunity from prosecution on all matters

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
Opinion of the Court

431 U. S.

lee's refusal to waive his constitutional mmunity automatically
divested him of all his party offices and activated the five-year
ban on holding any public or party office.
The following day, appellee commenced this action in the
United States District Court for the Southern District of
New York. After hearing, the District Judge entered a temporary restraining order against enforcement of § 22. A
three-judge court was then convened, and that court granted
appellee declaratory and permanent injunctive relief against
enforcement of § 22 on the ground that it violated appellee's
Fifth and Fourteenth Amendment rights. We noted probable
jurisdiction, 429 U S. 893 (1976)
We affirm.
(2)
We begin with the proposition that the Fifth Amendment
privilege against compelled self-incrimination protects grand
about which he testified. N. Y. Crum. Proc. Law §§ 50.10, 190A0, 190.45
(McKinney 1971 and Supp. 1976-1977)
As appellant concedes, however, Tr. of Oral Arg. 4-5, and as the record reflects, the State also insisted
on a waiver of the more limited use immunity which we have held essential to protect Fifth Amendment rights. Kastigar v United States, 406
U S. 441 (1972)
The waiver form which appellee's counsel represents is presented to
grand jury witnesses waives "all immunity and privileges which I would
otherwise obtain under the provisions of the Constitution of the United
States and of the State of New York" and further "consent[s] to the use
against me of the testimony so given
upon any criminal trial, mvestigation, prosecution or proceeding." McKinney's Forms for the Criminal
Procedure Law § 190.45, Form 1 (1971). See N. Y. Crim. Proc. Law
§ 190.45. Appellee's refusal to sign this waiver form, pressed on hun
immediately before taking the oath, was in these circumstances an effective
assertion of his Fifth Amendment privilege.
Of course, New York's procedure in this regard is not constitutionally
required. Rather than permit an assertion 'of the Fifth Amendment
privilege to confer immunity with respect to all matters testified to
before the grand jury, New York could, if it chose, require a witness
to assert Ins constitutional privilege to the specific questions he deems
potentially incriminating, withholding constitutional use immunity until
the validity of the assertion is upheld.

LEFKOWITZ v. CUNNINGHAM

801

Opnion of the Court

jury witnesses from being forced to give testimony which may
later be used to convict them in a criminal proceeding. See,
e. g., UnitedStates v Washington,ante, at 186-187 Moreover,
since the test is whether the testimony might later subject the witness to criminal prosecution, the privilege is available to a witness in a civil proceeding, as well as to a defendant in a criminal prosecution. Malloy v Hogan, 378 U S. 1,
11 (1964)
In either situation the witness may "refuse to
answer unless and until he is protected at least against the
use of his compelled answers and evidence derived therefrom
in any subsequent criminal case in which he is a defendant."
Lefkowitz v Turley, 414 U S. 70, 78 (1973)
Thus, when a State compels testimony by threatening to
inflict potent sanctions unless the constitutional privilege
is surrendered, that testimony is obtained in violation of the
Fifth Amendment and cannot be used against the declarant in
a subsequent criminal prosecution. In Garrityv New Jersey,
385 U S. 493 (1967), for example, police officers under investigation were told that if they declined to answer potentially incriminating questions they would be removed from
office, but that any answers they did give could be used
against them in a criminal prosecution. We held that statements given under such circumstances were made involuntarily and could not be used to convict the officers of crime.
Similarly, our cases have established that a State may not
impose substantial penalties because a witness elects to exercise his Fifth Amendment right not to give mcrinating
testimony against himself. In Gardner v Broderck, 392
U S. 273 (1968), a police officer appearing before a grand
jury investigating official corruption was subject to discharge if he did not waive his Fifth Amendment privilege and
answer, without immunity, all questions asked of him. When
he refused, and his employment was terminated, this Court
held that the officer could not be discharged solely for his
refusal to forfeit the rights guaranteed him by the Fifth
Amendment, the privilege against compelled self-mcnmma-

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
Opinion of the Court

431 U.S.

tion could not abide any "attempt, regardless of its ultimate
effectiveness, to coerce a waiver of the nnmunity it confers on
penalty of the loss of employment." Id., at 279. Accord,
Sanitaftwn Men v Sanitatwn Comm'r, 392 U S. 280 (1968).
At the same time, the Court provided for effectuation of the
important public interest in securing from public employees an
accounting of their public trust. Public employees may constitutionally be discharged for refusing to answer potentially
incrimiatmg questions concerning their official duties if they
have not been required to surrender their constitutional inmunity Gardner,supra,at 278-279.
We affirmed the teaching of Gardnermore recently in Lefkowitz v Turley, supra, where two architects who did occasional work for the State of New York refused to waive their
Fifth Amendment privilege before a grand jury investigating
corruption in public contracting practices. State law provided that if a contractor refused to surrender his constitutional privilege before a grand jury, his existing state contracts
would be canceled, and he would be barred from future contracts with the State for five years. The Court saw no constitutional distinction between discharging a public employee and
depriving an independent contractor of the opportunity to secure public contracts, in both cases the State had sought to
compel testimony by imposing a sanction as the price of invoking the Fifth Amendment right.
These cases settle that government cannot penalize assertion of the constitutional privilege against compelled selfmcrnnmation by imposing sanctions to compel testimony
which has not been immunized. It is true, as appellant
points out, that our earlier cases were concerned with
penalties having a substantial economic impact. But the
touchstone of the Fifth Amendment is,compulsion, and direct
economic sanctions and imprisonment are not the only penalties capable of forcing the self-incrimnnation which the
Amendment forbids.

LEFKOWITZ v. CUNNINGHAM
801

Opinion of the Court

(3)
Section 22 confronted appellee with grave consequences
solely because he refused to waive immunity from prosecution
and give self-incriinatmg testimony Section 22 is therefore
constitutionally indistinguishable from the coercive provisions
we struck down in Gardner, Sanitation Men, and Turley.
Appellee's party offices carry substantial prestige and political
influence, giving him a powerful voice in recommending or
selecting candidates for office and in other political decisions.
The threatened loss of such widely sought positions, with their
power and perquisites, is inherently coercive. Additionally,
compelled forfeiture of these posts diminishes appellee's general reputation in his community
There are also economic consequences, appellee's professional standing as a practicing lawyer would suffer by his
removal from his political offices under these circumstances.
Further, § 22 bars appellee from holding any other party or
public office for five years. Many such offices carry substantial compensation. Appellant argues that appellee has no
enforceable property interest in future office, but neither did
the architects in Turley have an enforceable claim to future
government contracts. Nevertheless, we found that disqualification from eligibility for such contracts was a substantial
economic burden. In assessing the coercion which § 22 exerts,
we must take into account potential economic benefits realistically likely of attainment. Prudent persons weigh heavily
such legally unenforceable prospects in malng decisions, to
that extent, removal of those prospects constitutes economic
4
coercion.
Section 22 is coercive for yet another reason. It requires
appellee to forfeit one constitutionally protected right as the
4 That appellee's refusal to waive immunity and answer questions concermng his conduct of office may have already damaged his reputation and
standing is irrelevant to the issues in this case; it is inescapable that public judgments are often made on such factors.

OCTOBER TERM, 19.76
Opinon of the Court

431 U. S.

price for exercising another. See Simmons v United States,
390 U S. 377, 394 (1968)
As an officer in a private political
party, appellee is in a far different position from a government
policymaking official holding office at the pleasure of the
President or Governor. By depriving appellee of his offices,
§ 22 impinges on his right to participate in private, voluntary
political associations. That right is an important aspect of
First Amendment freedom which this Court has consistently
found entitled to constitutional protection. Kusper v Pontikes, 414 U S. 51 (1973), Williams v Rhodes, 393 U S.23
(1968)
Appellant argues that even if § 22 is violative of Fifth
Amendment rights, the State's overriding interest in preserving public confidence in the integrity of its political process
justifies the constitutional infringement. We have already
rejected the notion that citizens may be forced to incrinmnate
themselves because it serves a governmental need. E g.,
Lefkowitz v Turley, 414 U S., at 78-79. Government has
compelling interests in maintaining an honest police force and
civil service, but this Court did not permit those interests to
justify infringement of Fifth Amendment rights in Garrity,
Gardner, and Sanitation Men, where alternative methods of
promoting state aims were no more apparent than here.'

(4)
It
5

may be, as appellant

contends, that "[a]

State

Baxter v. Palmigzano, 425 U. S. 308 (1976), is not to the contrary
That case involved an administrative disciplinary proceeding in which the
respondent was advised that he was not required to testify, but that if he
chose to remain silent his silence could be considered against him. Baxter
did no more than permit an inference to be drawn in a civil case from a
party's refusal to testify Respondent's silence in Baxter was only one
of a number of factors to be considered by the finder of fact in assessing a penalty, and was given no more probative value than the facts
of the case warranted, here, refusal to waive the Fifth Amendment
privilege leads automatically and without more to imposition of sanctions.

LEFKOWITZ v. CUNNINGHAM
801

BRENNAN, J., concurring

m part

forced to choose between an accounting from or a prosecution of a party officer is in an intolerable position."
Brief for Appellant 12-13. But this dilemma is created by
New York's transactional immunity law, which immunizes
grand jury witnesses from prosecution for any transaction
about which they testify The more limited use immunity
required by the Fifth Amendment would perrmt the State
to prosecute appellee for any crime of which he may be
guilty in connection with his party office, provided only that
his own compelled testimony is not used to convict him.
Once proper use immunity is granted, the State may use its
contempt powers to compel testimony concerning the conduct
of public office, without forfeiting the opportunity to prosecute
the witness on the basis of evidence derived from other sources.
Accordingly, the judgment is
Affirmed.
MR.JUsTICE REIHNQUIST took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.

MR.JUSTIcE BRENNAN, with whom MR.JUSTICE MARSHAIL
joins, concurring in part.
I join the Court's judgment, for the reasons stated in
Parts (1), (2), and (3) of its opinion. I cannot, however,
join Part (4), because I continue to believe that "the Fifth
Amendment privilege against self-incrimination requires that
any jurisdictibn that compels a man to incriminate himself
grant him absolute immunity under its laws from prosecution
for any transaction revealed in that testimony" Piccirillo v

New York, 400 U S.548, 562 (1971)

(BRENNAN,

J., dissent-

See also Kastigarv United States, 406 U S.441, 462
(MARSHALL, J.,
Moreover, even on the Court's assumption that
dissenting)
a lesser immunity is sufficient to satisfy the requirements of
the Fifth Amendment, I question the propriety of the Court's
suggestion that the New York Legislature's decision to grant
ing)

(1972) (Douglas, J., dissenting), sd., at 467

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
STEnNS, J., dissenting

431 U. S.

additional protection to the Fifth Amendment rights of grand
jury witnesses was somehow contrary to the State's best
interests.

MVU.

JusTICE STEVENS,

dissenting.

The First Amendment protects the individual's right to
speak and to believe in accordance with the dictates of his
own conscience.
But if he believes m peace at any price
and speaks out against a strong military, the President may
decide not to nominate him for the office of Secretary of
Defense. If he already occupies a comparable policymaking
office, the President may remove him as a result of his
exercise of First Amendment rights. The fact that the Constitution protects the exercise of the right does not mean that
it also protects the speaker's "right" to hold high public
office.'
The Fifth Amendment protects the individual's right to
remain silent. The central purpose of the privilege against
compulsory self-incrimination is to avoid unfair criminal
trials. It is an expression of our conviction that the defendant in a crimnal case must be presumed innocent, and that
the State has the burden of proving guilt without resorting
to an inquisition of the accused2
I It is often incorrectly assumed that whenever an individual right is
sufficiently important to receive constitutional protection, that protection
implicitly guarantees that the exercise of the right shall be cost free.
Nothing could be further from the truth. The right to representation by
counsel of one's choice, for example, may require the defendant in a
criminal case to pay a staggering price to employ the lawyer he selects.
Insistence on a jury trial may increase the cost of defense. The right to
send one's children to a private school, Meyer v. Nebraska, 262 U. S. 390,
may be exercised only by one prepared to pay the associated tuition cost.
2
E. Griswold, The Fifth Amendment Today 1-8 (1955), L. Levy,
Origins of the Fifth Amendment: The Right Against Self-Incrimination
(1968), Pittman, The Colomal and Constitutional History of the Privilege
Against Self-Incrimination in America, 21 Va. L. Rev 763 (1935). The

LEFKOWITZ v. CUNNINGHAM
801

STEVENS, J., dissenting

Just as constitutionally protected speech may disclose a
valid reason for terminating the speaker's employment, so
may constitutionally protected silence provide a valid reason
for refusing or terminating employment in certain sensitive
public positions. Thus a person nominated to an office which
may not be filled without the consent of the Senate could
exercise his right not to incriminate himself during questioning
by a Senate committee, but no one wpuld doubt the Senate's
constitutional power to withhold its consent for that very
reason. Nor can there be any doubt concerning the President's power to discharge any White House aide who might
assert his Fifth Amendment privilege in response to a charge
that he had used his office to conceal wrongdoing or to solicit
illegal campaign contributions.
I see no reason why there should be any greater doubt
concerning a state governor's power to discharge an
appointed member of his personal staff who asserts his Fifth
Amendment privilege before a grand jury investigating accusations of influence peddling in state government.3 And
since a constitutional limitation on the power of the "government," see ante, at 806, applies equally to the legislature and
the executive, a statutory restriction is no more objectionable
than an executive order.
My comments thus far have related to policymaking officials who seek or occupy positions which have no exact
counterpart in the private sector of the economy In our
democracy, their power to govern is ultimately derived from,
and dependent upon, the sanction of the citizenry they serve.
privilege has engendered a great deal of legal scholarship over the years.
See Dean Griswold's thoughtful review of the literature and of his own
writings m The Right to be Let Alone, 55 Nw U. L. Rev 216 (1960).
See also Friendly, The Fifth Amendment Tomorrow- The Case for Constitutional Change, 37 U. Cin. L. Rev 671, 706-708 (1968)
3
See, e. g., Scott v. PhiladelphaParkzng Auth., 402 Pa. 151, 154, 166
A. 2d 278, 280-281 (1960), Mitchell v Chester Housng Auth., 389 Pa.
314, 328, 132 A. 2d 873, 880 (1957).

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
STEVENS, J., dissenting

431 U. S.

Their performance in office not only must satisfy high standards of competence and efficiency but must also inspire confidence in the integrity of their leadership.4 For that reason,
conditions may appropriately be attached to the holding of
high public office that would be entirely inappropriate for the
vast majority of government employees whose work is not
significantly different from that performed in the private
sector.'
The Court has decided in the past that workers such as
sanitation men employed by a state-chartered municipality
may not be threatened with the loss of their livelihood in
order to compel them to waive their privilege against selfincrimination.' Neither that decision, nor any in its line,
controls this case. For rules which protect the rights of
government workers whose jobs are not fundamentally different from positions m other areas of society are not automatically applicable to policymaking officials of government.8
4

Note, A Constitutional Analysis of the Spoils System, 57 Iowa L. Rev
1320, 1321 n. 12 (1972), Note, 17 Vill. L. Rev 750, 753-754 (1972),
Note, 26 Vand. L. Rev 1090, 1092 n. 12 (1973).
A line of cases in the Seventh Circuit has addressed the distinction
between policymakmg and nonpolicymaking state employees, Indiana
State Employees Assn., Inc. v Negley, 501 F 2d 1239 (1974), Adams v
Walker, 492 F 2d 1003, 1007 (1974), Illinois State Employees Union,
Council 34 v. Lewis, 473 F 2d 561, 574 (1972), cert. denied, 410 U. S.
928; Gould v Walker, 356 F Supp. 421 (ND Ill. 1973) See Pickering v
Board of Education, 391 U. S. 563, 570, and n. 3.
5 See Orloff v. Willoughby, 345 U. S. 83, 90-92; Napolitano v Ward,
457 F 2d 279 (CA7 1972).
6
Sanitation Men v. Sanitation Comm'r, 392 U. S. 280.
7
Lefkowitz v Turley, 414 U. S. 70; Gardner v. Broderick, 392 U. S.
273, Garrity v New Jersey, 385 U. S. 493.
S Cf. Elrod v Burns, 427 U. S. 347, 367-368 (plurality opinion),
Sugarman v. Dougall, 413 U. S. 634, 642-643, United Public Workers v
Mitchell, 330 U. S. 75, 115, 122-123 (Douglas, J., dissenting m part),
Myers v. United States, 272 U. S. 52, 240-241 (Brandeis, J. dissenting),
Indiana State Employees Assn., Inc. v Negley, supra, Mow Sun Wong v

LEFKOWITZ v. CUNNINGHAM
801

STEVENS, J., dissenting

Appellee Cunningham (hereinafter appellee) is a policymaking official occupying a sensitive position in the government of
the State of New York. He is chairman of the State Democratic Committee and of the Bronx County Democratic Executive Committee. By virtue of holding those party positions
he performs several important statutory offices for the State of
New York. If "heed is to be given to the realities of political
life, [he is one of] the instruments by which government
becomes a living thing." Nixon v Condon, 286 U S. 73, 84.
The leaders of a major political party "are not acting in matters of merely private concern like the directors or agents of
business corporations. They are acting in matters of high
public interest, matters intimately connected with the capacity
of government to exercise its functions unbrokenly and
smoothly" Id., at 88.
The State has a legitimate interest, not only in preventing
actual corruption, but also in avoiding the appearance of
corruption " among those it favors with sensitive, policymaking office. If such a person wishes to exercise his constitutional right to remain silent and refuses to waive his
privilege against compulsory self-incrimination, I see no reaHampton, 500 F 2d 1031, 1040 (CA9 1974), aff'd, 426 U. S.88, 95-96;
Leonard v Douglas, 116 U. S. App. D. C. 136, 321 F 2d 749 (1963).
gAppellee selects nominees for commissioner of the State Board of

Elections which administers New York elections, N. Y. Elec. Law § 468
(McKinney Supp. 1976-1977).

He has similar powers with respect to

local election officers, §§ 31, 40, 45 (McKinney 1964). The committees
he chairs have the power to designate candidates for office m party
primary elections, § 131 (2), to fill vacancies wlnch occur m the party slate
in Bronx County, §§ 131, 140, and to nominate Democratic electors for the
offices of President and Vice President of the United States, § 131 (1).
10 See Buckley v Valeo, 424 U. S. 1, 25-27 To the extent that it
legitimizes the Government's concern with the integrity of the election
process, Buckley is particularly apposite here. The majority of the
appellee's statutory powers concern the administration and enforcement of New York's election laws.

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
STEvENs,

J., dissenting

431 U. S.

son why the State should not have the power to remove him
from office."
I recognize that procedures are available by which the
State may compel any of its employees to render an accounting
of his or her office in exchange for a grant of immunity 2
1"Of course, it may not do so because it wishes to punish him for the
exercise of his right, or as a substitute punishment for the crunes of which
he might be suspected. But the State does have a legitimate interest in
the integrity, and in the appearance of integrity, of those serving in its
governing core. Cf. In re Daley, 549 F 2d 469, 474-477 (CA7 1977).
Appellee's removal from a statutorily recognized state political office
does not deprive him of his right to associate for political reasons, see
ante, at 807-808. The impact on this right is surely no more significant
than the impact of the statute on his privilege against compulsory
self-incrimination. For § 22 leaves appellee free to participate in
Democratic Party political activities in all the capacities recognized as
protected by our right-to-associate cases.
Nor does this case present the question whether the imposition of
the five-year ban on holding state office contained in § 22 may be invalid
as a penalty
2 The failure to tender immunity was the critical missing element which
invalidated the discharges of the policeman in Gardner v. Broderck, 392
U. S. 273, and the sanitation men in SanitationMen v SanitationComm'r,
392 U. S. 280, 284-285.
"If appellant, a policeman, had refused to answer questions specifically,
directly, and narrowly relating to the performance of Ins official duties,
without being required to waive his immunity with respect to the use of
his answers or the fruits thereof in a criminal prosecution of himself,
Garrity v New Jersey, supra, the privilege against self-incrimination would
not have been a bar to his dismissal." Gardner v. Broderick, supra, at
278.
I recognize that Gardner v. Broderick and Garrity v. New Jersey, 385
U. S. 493, make it clear that law enforcement officers are indistinguishable
from other government employees as far as the privilege against compulsory self-incrimination is concerned. In view of the large measure of
state power and public trust we grant our police, I am not sure that I
would have joined those decisions. But extension of the largest measure
of the Fifth Amendment privilege to the police does not require its further
extension to this case. See supra, at 812 (text to n. 7).

LEFKOWITZ v. CUNNINGHAM
801

STEVENS, J., dissenting

But the availability of that alternative does not require us
to conclude that our highest public officers may refuse to
respond to legitimate inquiries and remain in office unless they
are first granted nimunity from crimnal prosecution. The

Fifth Amendment does not require the State to pay such a
price to effect the removal of an officer whose claim of privilege can only erode the public's confidence in its government.
The New York statute, if enforced, will require the state
chairman to make a choice between silence and public service.
Appellee was on notice on this possibility when he accepted
his offices.Y3 He has an unquestioned constitutional right
to choose either alternative. The choice may indeed be a
difficult one for him to make. In constitutional terms, however, I see no difference between his choice and that confronted by many other public-spirited citizens who are at
once asked to serve their country and to respond publicly
to any suggestion of wrongdoing that may be advanced by
any hostile or curious witness. The fact that such a choice
may be difficult is not a reason for saying that the State
has no power to require an officeholder or officeseeker to
make it.
I respectfully dissent.

.3 Section 22 was enacted m 1949, years before appellee gamed his
chairmanships.

