UNITED AIR, LINES, INC. v. EVANS
Syllabus

UNITED AIR LINES, INC. v. EVANS
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT

No. 76-333.

Argued March 29, 1977-Decided May 31, 1977

Where respondent female flight attendant failed to file a timely claim
against petitioner airline for violation of Title VII of the Civil Rights
Act of 1964 when her employment was termnated m 1968 pursuant to
a later invalidated policy because she got married, petitioner held not
to commit a present, continuing violation of Title VII by refusing to
credit respondent, after rehning her in 1972, with pre-1972 seniority,
absent any allegation that petitioner's seniority system, which is neutral
in its operation, discriminates against former female employees or
victims of past discrimination. Franks v Bowman Transportation Co.,
424 U. S. 747, distinguished. Moreover, § 703 (h) of Title VII, which
provides that it shall not be an unlawful employment practice to apply
different terms of employment pursuant to a bona fide seniority system
if any disparity is not the result of intentional discrimination, bars
respondent's claim, absent any attack on the bona fides of petitioner's
seniority system or of any charge that the system is intentionally
designed to discriminate because of race, color, religion, sex, or national
origin. Pp. 557-560.
534 F 2d 1247, reversed.
STEvENs, J., delivered the opinon of the Court, in which BURGER, C. J.,
and STiwART, WHITE, BIAcKuMN, PowELL, and REHNQUIST, JJ., joined.
MARSHALL, J., filed a dissenting opinion, in which BRENxAN, J., joined,
post, p. 560.

Stuart Bernstem argued the cause for petitioner. On the
briefs were Arnold T Aikens, Kenneth A. Knutson, and Earl
G Dolan.
Alan M. Levn argued the cause for respondent pro hac vzce.
With him on the brief was Isamh S. Dorfman.*
*Briefs of amzcz curiae urging reversal were filed by Gordon Dean Booth,
Jr., for Delta Air Lines, Inc., et al., and by Peyton H. Moss, Douglas S.

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
Opinion of the Court

MR. JusTIcE STEvENs

431 U. S.

delivered the opinion of the Court.

Respondent was employed by United Air Lines as a flight
attendant from November 1966 to February 1968. She was
rehired in February 1972. Assuming, as she alleges, that her
separation from employment in 1968 violated Title VII of the
Civil Rights Act of 1964,1 the question now presented is
whether the employer is committing a second violation of
Title VII by refusing to credit her with seniority for any
period prior to February 1972.
Respondent filed charges with the Equal Employment
Opportunity Commission in February 1973, alleging that
United discriminated and continues to discriminate against her
because she is a female. After receiving a letter granting her
the right to sue, she commenced this action in the United
States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois.
Because the District Court dismissed her complaant, the facts
which she has alleged are taken as true. They may be simply
stated.
During respondent's initial period of employment, Umted
maintained a policy of refusing to allow its female flight
attendants to be married.2 When she married in 1968, she
was therefore forced to resign. Although it was subsequently
decided that such a resignation violated Title VII, Sprogis v
United Air Lines, 444 F 2d 1194 (CA7 1971), cert. denied, 404
U S. 991, respondent was not a party to that case and did not
McDowell, and Robert E. Williams for the Equal Employment Advisory
Council et al.
Jack Greenberg, James M. Nabrit III, Patrick 0 Patterson, and Barry
Goldstem filed a brief for the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational
Fund, Inc., as amicus curiae urging affirmance.
178 Stat. 253. Title VII, as amended, is codified in 42 U S. C. § 2000e
et seq. (1970 ed. and Supp. V).
2At that time United required that all flight attendants be female,
except on flights between the mainland and Hawaii and on overseas military charter flights. See Sprogis v United Air Lines, 444 F 2d 1194, 1203
(CA7 1971) (Stevens, J., dissenting), cert. denied, 404 U. S. 991.

UNITED AIR LINES, INC. v. EVANS
553

Opinion of the Court

initiate any proceedings of her own in 1968 by filing a charge
with the EEOC within 90 days of her separation
A claim
based on that discrinmnatory act is therefore barred.'
In November 1968, United entered into a new collectivebargaining agreement which ended the pre-emsting "no marriage" rule and provided for the reinstatement of certain flight
attendants who had been terminated pursuant to that rule.
Respondent was not covered by that agreement. On several
occasions she unsuccessfully sought reinstatement; on February 16, 1972, she was hired as a new employee. Although her
personnel file carried the same number as it did in 1968, for
seniority purposes she has been treated as though she had no
prior service with United
She has not alleged that any other
rehired employees were given credit for prior service with
Uinted, or that United's admmstration of the seniority system
has violated the collective-bargaining agreement covering her
employment.6
3

Section 706 (d), 78 Stat. 260, 42 U. S. C. § 2000e-5 (d), then provided
in part:

"A charge under subsection (a) shall be filed within ninety days after
the alleged unlawful employment practice occurred
The 1972 amendments to Title VII added a new subsection (a) to § 706.
Consequently, subsection (d) was redesignated as subsection (e). At the
same time it was amended to enlarge the limitations period to 180 days.
See 86 Stat. 105,42 U. S. C. § 2000e-5 (e) (1970 ed., Supp. V).
4 Timely filing is a prerequisite to the maintenance of a Title VII
action. Alexander v Gardner-Denver Co., 415 U. S. 36, 47 See Electrwcal Workers v. Robbns & Myers, Inc., 429 U. S. 229, 239-240.
5
Respondent is earned on two seniority rolls. Her "company" or
"system" seniority dates from the day she was rehired, February 16, 1972.
Her "stewardess" or "pay" seniority dates from the day she completed her
flight attendant training, March 16, 1972. One or both types of seniority
determine a flight attendant's wages; the duration and timing of vacations;
rights to retention in the event of layoffs and rights to re-employment thereafter; and rights to preferential selection of flight assignments.
App. 5-6, 10.
Under the provisions of the collective-bargaining agreement between
United and the'Air Line Stewardesses and Flight Stewards as represented

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
Opinion of the Court

431 U. S.

Informal requests to credit her with pre-1972 seniority
having been denied, respondent commenced this action.7 The
District Court dismissed the complaint, holding that the
failure to file a charge within 90 days of her separation in 1968
caused respondent's claim to be time barred, and foreclosed
any relief under Title VII. 8
A divided panel of the Court of Appeals initially affirmed,
then, after our decision in Franks v Bowman Transportation
Co., 424 U S. 747, the panel granted respondent's petition for
by the Air Line Pilots Association International for the period 1972-1974,
seniority is irrevocably lost or broken after the separation from employment of a flight attendant "who resigns or whose services with the
Company are permanently severed for just cause." Brief for Respondent 6.
The relief requested in respondent's complaint included an award of
seniority to the starting date of her initial employment with United, and
backpay "lost as a result of the discriminatory employment practices of
[United]." App. 8. In her brief in this Court, respondent states that
she seeks backpay only since her date of rehiring, February 16, 1972,
which would consist of the increment in pay and benefits attributable to
her lower seniority since that time. Brief for Respondent 4.
s The District Court recited that the motion was filed pursuant to
Fed. Rule Civ Proc. 12 (b) (1) and dismissed the complaint on the
ground that it had no jurisdiction of a time-barred claim. The District
Court also held, however, that the complaint did not allege any continuing
violation. For that reason, the complaint was ripe for dismissal under
Rule 12 (b) (6). The District Court stated:
"Plaintiff asserts that by defendant's denial of her seniority back to the
starting date of her original employment in 1966, United is currently
perpetuating the effect of past discrimination.
"Plaintiff, however, has not been suffering from any 'continuing' violation. She is seeking to have this court merely reinstate her November,
1966 seniority date which was lost solely by reason of her February, 1968
resignation. The fact that that resignation was the result of an unlawful
employment practice is irrelevant for purposes of these proceedings because
plaintiff lost her opportunity to redress that grievance when she failed to
file a charge within niety days of February, 1968. United's subsequent
employment of plaintiff in 1972 cannot operate to resuscitate such a timebarred claim." App. 18.

UNITED AIR LINES, INC. v. EVANS
553

Opinion of the Court

rehearing and unanimously reversed. 534 F 2d 1247 (CA7
1976) We granted certiorari, 429 U S. 917, and now hold
that the complaint was properly dismissed.
Respondent recognizes that it is now too late to obtaan relief
based on an unlawful employment practice which occurred in
1968. She contends, however, that United is guilty of a
present, continuing violation of Title VII and therefore that
her claim is timely 9 She advances two reasons for holding
that United's seniority system illegally discriminates agaanst
her" First, she is treated less favorably than males who were
hired after her termination in 1968 and prior to her re-employment in 1972, second, the seniority system gives present effect
to the past illegal act and therefore perpetuates the consequences of forbidden discrimination. Neither argument
persuades us that United is presently violating the statute.
It is true that some male employees with less total service
than respondent have more seniority than she. But this disparity is not a consequence of their sex, or of her sex. For
females hired between 1968 and 1972 also acquired the same
preference over respondent as males hired during that period.
Moreover, both male and female employees who had service
prior to February 1968, who resigned or were terminated for a
nondiscriminatory reason (or for an unchallenged discrinmmatory reason), and who were later re-employed, also were treated
as new employees receiving no seniority credit for their prior
service. Nothing alleged in the complaint indicates that
United's seniority system treats existing female employees
differently from existing male employees, or that the failure to
9 Respondent cannot rely for jurisdiction on the single act of failing to
assign her seniority credit for her prior service at the time she was rehired,

for she filed her discrimination charge with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission on February 21, 1973, more than one year after she
was rehired on February 16, 1972. The applicable time limit in February

1972, was 90 days; effective March 24, 1972, this time was extended to
180 days, see n. 3, supra.

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
Opinion of the Court

431 U. S.

credit prior service differentiates m any way between prior
service by males and prior service by females. Respondent
has failed to allege that United's semority system differentiates between similarly situated males and females on the

basis of sex.
Respondent is correct in pointing out that the seniority
system gives present effect to a past act of discrimination.

But United was entitled to treat that past act as lawful after
respondent failed to file a charge of discrimination within the
90 days then allowed by § 706 (d) A discriminatory act
which is not made the basis for a timely charge is the legal
equivalent of a discriminatory act which occurred before the
statute was passed. It may constitute relevant background evidence in a proceeding in which the status of a current practice
is at issue, but separately considered, it is merely an unfortunate event in history which has no present legal consequences.
Respondent emphasizes the fact that she has alleged a conftnuing violation. United's seniority system does indeed have
a continuing impact on her pay and fringe benefits. But the
emphasis should not be placed on mere continuity; the critical
question is whether any present wolaton exists. She has not
alleged that the system discriminates against former female
employees or that it treats former employees who were discharged for a discriminatory reason any differently from
former employees who resigned or were discharged for a nondiscriminatory reason. In short, the system is neutral in its
operation."0
Our decision in Franks v Bowman Transportation Co.,
supra, does not control this case. In Franks we held that
retroactive seniority was an appropriate remedy to be awarded
under § 706 (g) of Title VII, 42 U S. C. § 2000e-5 (g) (1970
'0 This case does not involve any claim by respondent that United's
seniority system deterred her from asserting any right granted by Title
VII. It does not present the question raised in the so-called departmental
seniority cases. See, e. g., Quarles v Philip Morns, Inc., 279 F Supp.
505 (ED Va. 1968)

UNITED AIR LINES, INC. v. EVANS
553

Opinion of the Court

ed., Supp. V), after an illegal discriminatory act or practice
had been proved, 424 U S., at 762-768. When that case
reached this Court, the issues relating to the timeliness of the
charge" and the violation of Title VII 2 had already been
decided, we dealt only with a question of remedy In contrast, in the case now before us we do not reach any remedy
issue because respondent did not file a timely charge based on
her 1968 separation and she has not alleged facts establishing
a violation since she was rehired in 1972.1
The difference between a remedy issue and a violation issue
is highlighted by the analysis of §703 (h) of Title VII in
Franks.' As we held in that case, by its terms that section
does not bar the award of retroactive seniority after a violation has been proved. Rather, § 703 (h) "delineates which
employment practices are illegal and thereby prohibited and
which are not," 424 U S., at 758.
That section expressly provides that it shall not be an unlawful employment practice to apply different terms of em"The Court of Appeals had disposed of the timeliness issues in Franks,
495 F 2d 398, 405 (CA5 1974).
12 This finding of the District Court was unchallenged in the Court of
Appeals, id., at 402, 403, and was assumed in this Court, 424 U. S., at 750.
In any event we noted in Franks. "The underlying legal wrong affecting
[the class] is not the alleged operation of a racially discriminatory seniority
system but of a racially discrnnminatory hiring system." Id., at 758.
'3 At the time she was rehired in 1972, respondent had no greater right
to a job than any other applicant for employment with United. Since she
was in fact treated like any other applicant when she was rehired, the
employer did not violate Title VII in 1972. And if the employer did not
violate Title VII m 1972 by refusing to credit respondent with back
seniority, its continued adherence to that policy cannot be illegal.
- Section 703 (h), 78 Stat. 257, 42 U. S. C. § 2000e-2 (h), provides:
"Notwithstanding any other provision of this title, it shall not be an
unlawful employment practice for an employer to apply different standards
of compensation, or different terms, conditions, or privileges of employment
pursuant to a bona fide seniority or merit system
provided that such
differences are not the result of an intention to discriminate because of
race, color, religion, sex, or national origin
"

OCTOBER TERA,
MARSHALL,

1976

J., dissenting

431 U. S.

ployment pursuant to a bona fide seniority system, provided
that any disparity is not the result of intentional discriinnation. Since respondent does not attack the bona fides of
United's seniority system, and since she makes no charge that
the system is intentionally designed to discriminate because
of race, color, religion, sex, or national origin, § 703 (h) provides an additional ground for rejecting her claim.
The Court of Appeals read § 703 (h) as intended to bar an
attack on a seniority system based on the consequences of
discriminatory acts which occurred prior to the effective date
of Title VII in 196,15 but having no application to such
attacks based on acts occurring after 1965. This reading of
§ 703 (h) is too narrow The statute does not foreclose
attacks on the current operation of seniority systems which
are subject to challenge as discriminatory But such a challenge to a neutral system may not be predicated on the mere
fact that a past event which has no present legal significance
has affected the calculation of seniority credit, even if the past
event might at one time have justified a valid claim against
the employer. A contrary view would substitute a claim for
seniority credit for almost every claim which is barred by
linmtations. Such a result would contravene the mandate of
§ 703 (h)
The judgment of the Court of Appeals is reversed.
It ts so ordered.
MR. JUSTICE MARSHALL, with whom MR. JUsTIcE BRENNAN

joins, dissenting.
But for her sex, respondent Carolyn Evans presently would
enjoy all of the seniority rights that she seeks through this
litigation. Petitioner United Air Lines has denied her those
rights pursuant to a policy that perpetuates past discrimination by awarding the choicest jobs to those possessing a
15

534 F 2d, at 1251.

UNITED AIR LINES, INC. v. EVANS
553

MAisHALL,

J., dissenting

credential married women were unlawfully prevented from
acquiring: continuous tenure with United. While the complaint respondent filed in the District Court was perhaps
inartfully drawn,1 it adequately draws into question this policy
of United's.
For the reasons stated m the Court's opinion and in my
separate opinion in Teamsters v United States, ante, at 378, I
think it indisputable that, absent § 703 (h), the seniority system at issue here would constitute an "unlawful employment
practice" under Title VII, 42 U S. C. § 2000e-2 (a) (2) (1970
ed., Supp. V) And for the reasons developed at length in my
separate opinion in Teamsters, ante, at 381-394, I believe § 703
(h) does not immunize seniority systems that perpetuate postAct discrimination.
The only remaining question is whether Ms. Evans' complait is barred by the applicable statute of limitations, 42
U S. C. § 2000e-5 (e) (1970 ed., Supp. V) Her cause of
action accrued, if at al, at the tune her seniority was recomputed after she was rehired. Although she apparently failed
to fie a charge with the EEOC within 180 days after her
seniority was determined, Title VII recognizes that certain
violations, once commenced, are continuing in nature.

In

these instances, discrimnatees can file charges at any time up
to 180 days after the violation ceases. (They can, however,
receive backpay only for the two years preceding the filing of
charges with the Equal Employment Opportunity CommisIn
sion. 42 U S. C. § 2000e-5 (g) (1970 ed., Supp. V))

IAlthough the District Court dismissed respondent's complait for lack
of jurisdiction pursuant to Fed. Rule Civ Proc. 12 (b) (1), the basis for
its ruling was that the complaint was time barred. Thus, the dismissal
closely resembles a dismissal for failure to state a claim upon which relief
can be granted, and the only issue before us is whether "it appears beyond
doubt that the plaintiff can prove no set of facts m support of [her]
claim which would entitle [her] to relief." Conley v. Gibson, 355 U. S.41,
45-46 (1957).

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
MARSHALL, J.,

dissenting

431 U. S.

the instant case, the violation-treating respondent as a new
employee even though she was wrongfully forced to resign-Is
continuing to this day Respondent's charge therefore was
not time barred, and the Court of Appeals judgment reinstating her complaint should be affirmed.2

2It is, of course, true that to establish her entitlement to relief, respondent will have to prove that she was unlawfully forced to resign more than
180 days prior to filing her charge with the EEOC. But if that is
sufficient to defeat her claim, then discrimnatees will never be able to
challenge "practices, procedures, or tests
[which] operate to 'freeze'
the status quo of prior discriminatory employment practices," Griggs v
Duke Power Co., 401 U. S. 424, 430 (1971), even though Griggs holds
that such practices are impermissible, and the legislative history of the
Equal Employment Opportunity Act of 1972, 86 Stat. 103, indicates that
Congress agrees, see Teamsters v United States, ante, at 391-393
(MARsHAL, J., concurring in part and dissenting in part). The consequence of Ms. Evans' failure to file charges after she was discharged is
that she has lost her right to backpay, not her right to challenge present
wrongs.

