ARMOUR & CO. v. Fr.MORGAN S. S. CO.
251

.253

Syllabus.

of fact that court entered judgment for the United States..
58 Ct. Cls. 671. The case-is here on appeal, taken May
15, 1924, under § 242 of the Judicial Code.
It is contended that at the time when the Government
annulled the contract the amount of work done had
exceeded the aggregate of the monthly requirements, and,
hence, that the company was not in default. This question we have no occasion to consider. The correspondence between the parties and other facts found warranted
the conclusion that the company had abandoned the
york and refused to complete the contract. There was
thus an anticipatory breach by the company which entitled the Government to relet the uncompleted part of
the work. Compare Smoot's Case, 15 Wall. 36, 48; Dingley v. Oler, 117 U. S. 490, 503. It is also contended that
the judgment is erroneous, because it was incumbent upon
the Government to show that the uncompleted work done
under the later contract did not materially depart from
that described in the repudiated contract and that this
was not shown. See United States v. Axman, 234 U. S.
36. The lower court concluded that the uncompleted
part of the work was relet on the same specifications.
Enough appears to show that the loss to the Government
resulting from the plaintiff's repudiation of the contract
far exceeded the amount reserved.
Affirmed.

ARMOUR & COMPANY v. FORT MORGAN STEAM-

SHIP COMPANY, LIMITED,

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 135. Argued January 14, 1926.-Decided March 1, 1926.
1. The liability of a ship as surety for damage resulting from her
unseaworthiness to a shipment undertaken by her charterer, is re-

254

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

leased by a compromise between the shipper and charterer discharging the primary obligation of the latter. P. 257.
2. A chartered ship is not liable for damage to a shipment from unseaworthiness, when the unseaworthiness was caused by her conversion by the charterer and shipper to a use not authorized by
the charter-party. P. 258.
3. The existence of admiralty jurisdiction can not be established conelusively by allegations in the libel but depends upon the facts as
revealed in the case. P. 258.
4. Admiralty jurisdiction over a libel based on maritime contracts is
not defeated by the bringing in of non-maritime contracts by way
of defence. P. 259.
297 Fed. 813, affirmed.
CERTIORARI to review a judgment of the Circuit Court of
Appeals which affirmed a judgment of the District Court
dismissing the libel in a suit in rem brought by Armour
and Company against the Steamship Fort Morgan, to collect damages to cargo alleged to have been due to the unseaworthiness of the ship. The Fort Morgan Steamship
Company defended as claimant and impleaded the Central-American Cattle Company.

Mr. John D. Grace, with whom Messrs. M. A. Grace
and Edwin H. Grace were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Victor Leovy, with whom Messrs. George Denegre
and Henry H. Chaffe were on the brief, for respondents.
MR. JUSTIcE BRANDEIS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This libel was filed on January 25, 1918, by Armour &
Company against the steamship Fort Morgan in the federal District Court for eastern Louisiana. Recovery was
sought for loss and damage to a shipment of 420, head of
cattle received by the ship at Port Limon, Costa Rica, for
delivery at Jacksonville, Florida. The charge was that
unseaworthiness had caused her to list so heavily as to
compel return to port and abandonment of the voyage,

ARMOUR & CO. v. FT. MORGAN S. S. CO.
253

255

Opinion of the Court.

and that thereby half of the cattle were killed and the
rest seriously injured. The libel alleged that the vessel
was engaged as a common carrier between the ports
named; that the cattle belonged to the libelant; that the
bill of lading signed by the master was issued after delivery of the cattle ,on board. The copy of the bill of lading annexed to the complaint was signed " The Central
American Cattle Co., Inc. By Thomas Johannesen, Master S. S. Fort Morgan." It recited: "Freight prepaid as
per contract subject to Live Stock Agreement."
* The owner made claim, impleaded the Cattle Company,
and showed that the actual transaction was very different
from that set forth in the libel. The shipment was an
incident of a contract made October 3, 1917, by the Cattle
Company with Armour & Company to procure in Central American countries about 25,000 head of cattle and
sell them to Armour & Company; to assemble these from
time to time at Port Limon for rest, inspection and loading; to charter and equip two steamers; and by means of
these vessels to transport the cattle from Port Limon to
Jacksonville. and make delivery there. The contract provided further for attendance of an Armour representative
at the inspection, grading, weighing and loading at Port
Limon; that the vessels should carry only cattle for Armour & Company; and thdt a supercargo representing
them should have supervision over the care of the cattle
during the voyage. It fixed the price per pound to be
paid for different grades of cattle and the freight per
head; and provided that payment of the purchase price
and the freight be made at New Orleans upon receipt of
cable advice from the Armour representative.
The Fort -Morgan had been chartered by the Cattle
Company. She listed when she left Port Limon and had
to return to port and abandon the voyage. But she had
been seaworthy when delivered to the Cattle Company
as charterer and was thereafter. The loss is claimed to

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

have resulted from the abuse of the ship by the Cattle
Company, under the supervision of Armour & Company's supercargo. The charter party, entitled a "Time
Charter-West India Fruit Trade," provided the privilege of and facilities for erecting a light fruit deck to
carry a load of fruit. At Port Limon she was, without the
consent of the owner, converted into a cattle ship. On
the deck, authorized as a fruit deck, cattle pens were constructed and the heavy cattle were loaded. Freight had
not been paid when the bill of lading issued; nor was it
ever paid. No payment for the cattle was ever made
under the contract. After the voyage was abandoned,
the Cattle Company brought suit against the Armours at
New Orleans. Later the parties entered into an agreement to settle their differences out of court. The compromise provided for a new trade arrangement; for holding
on joint account the surviving 200 head of injured cattle
then at Port Limon; and for the payment by the Armours
of $19,000 upon performance by the Cattle Company of
conditions set forth in the new agreement. Seven days
later this libel was filed. There was no reservation of
right under the bill of lading, or of any rights against the
ship. Through investigations incident to the defense the
owner first learned the facts.
The District Court dismissed the libel with costs, finding the facts substantially as stated above. The libelant
had insisted that the ship was liable because the master
had signed the bill of lading; and that, having been unseaworthy, she would have been liable even without such
signing, since the master had received the cattle on board.
The court held, in an unpublished opinion, that while the
vessel would ordinarily be liable for any damage resulting from unseawolthiness, there could be no recovery in
this case, because the unseaworthiness had resulted from
the conversion of the vessel into a cattle ship; that this
conversion involved a change in the charter party which

ARMOUR & CO. v. FT. MORGAN S. S. CO.
253

257

Opinion of the Court.

the master was without authority to make, Gracie v.
Palmer, 8 Wheat. 605, 639; that the owner could not be
subjected thereby to liability; that, morever, under the
terms of the charter party, the owner would be entitled to
be indemnified by the charterers for any judgment in
favor of Armour & Company; that the compromise made
by Armour & Company with knowledge that the vessel
was chartered barred this suit; and that, in any event,
recovery could not be had on the allegations of the libel.
The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the judgment of
the District Court, 297 Fed. 813. It held that the bill
of lading, although signed by the master, did not indicate
a purpose to bind the ship; that this fact, taken in connection'with the pre-existing contract, required the conclusion that the shipper's contract of affreightment was
only with the Cattle Company; and that, under these
circumstances, the ship could not be held. That court
did not pass upon or discuss the grounds of decision
adopted by the District Court. Nor did it refer to the
well-established rule that the ship is ordinarily liable to
the shipper upon an implied warranty of seaworthiness
although a bill of lading signed by the charterer is given.
See The Carib Prince,170 U. S. 655, 660; The Esrom, 272
Fed. 266. A petition for a writ of certiorari sought on
the ground that this basis of liability had been ignored
was granted. 266 U. S. 597. The respondent had not
opposed the granting of the writ; and it did not attempt
here, in the brief and argument on the merits, to support
the ground of decision stated by the Court of Appeals.
It insisted that the judgment should be affirmed substantially for the reasons stated by the District Court.
The suit is brought to enforce the lien or privilege
against the vessel which the maritime law gives as security for the contract of affreightment. The contract
contained in the bill of lading was that of the Cattle Company. The bill of, lading, which was signed by that com100569°-26-17

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

pany, is not to be treated as an isolated transaction. It
referred to a contract between the parties. It was in
fact given in part performance of the obligations assumed
by the Cattle Company by the original contract to purchase the cattle, assemble them at Port Limon, sell them
to the Armours, and transport them to Jacksonville.
The compromise agreement substituted new rights and
obligations for the obligations assumed by, and the liabilities incurred under, the original contract. Thereby,
it discharged the primary liabilities of the Cattle Company to the Armours under both the original contract
and the bill of lading to carry safely the cattle from Port
Limon to Jacksonville. The discharge of this primary
liability necessarily discharged also the liability of the
ship as surety for the charterers' obligation set forth in
the bill of lading. For this reason, and also because of
the facts found by the District Court concerning the unauthorized conversion of the vessel into a cattle ship
with the participation of the Armours, the libel was properly dismissed.
An objection to the jurisdiction taken by the owner
both here and below must be noticed. On the face of
the libel there was confessedly admiralty jurisdiction.
The contention is that the facts developed later disclosed
a transaction not wholly maritime, and that, for this
reason, the libel should have been dismissed under the
rule declared in Grant v. Poillon, 20 How. 162, 168-9.
The District Court stated that it was "inclined to agree
with the contention," but apparently did not pass definitely upon the matter. The Circuit Court of Appeals
did not mention the objection. The decree entered was
a general one dismissing the libel, as on the merits. If
there was no jurisdiction, the decree should have recited
that ground of dismissal, so as to be without prejudice.
The case is not of that class where the existence of
jurisdiction is conclusively determined by the first pleading of him who institutes the suit. Compare Clarke v.

ARMOUR & CO. v. FT. MORGAN S. S. CO.
253

259

Opinion of the Court.

Mathewson, 12 Pet. 164; Boston & Montana Mining Co.
v. Montana Ore Purchasing Co., 188 U. S. 632. Jurisdiction in admiralty cannot be effectively acquired by
concealing for a time the facts which establish that it
does not exist. Compare Lambert Run Coal Co. v. Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co., 258 U. S. 377, 382. We must,
therefore, consider whether the facts developed after the
filing of the libel preclude the exercise of admiralty jurisdiction. The bill of lading and the charter party are
both maritime contracts and, hence, enforceable in a court
of admiralty. Morewood v. Enequist, 23 How. 491; The
Eddy, 5 Wall. 481, 494. The original contract to purchase, assemble, and sell the cattle, to charter vessels and
therein transport the cattle to Jacksonville, and the agreement of compromise, are not maritime contracts. The
Richard Winslow, 71 Fed. 426; The Ada, 250 Fed. 194.
Both the original contract and the compromise agreement
are referred to in order to establish the fact that the
obligation for which the ship was surety had been discharged. The original contract was referred to, also, to
explain the relation of the shipper named in the bill of
lading to the charterer and in order to establish that by
reason of their co-operation in converting the vessel into
a cattle ship there was no liability. Such uses of nonmaritime contracts to establish the absence of a valid
maritime claim, or a defence as distinguished from a counterclaim 1 (see The Eclipse, 135 U. S. 599, 609), do not de'Also Willard v. Dorr, 3 Mason 161, 171; Southwestern Transp.
Co. v. Pittsburg Coal Co., 42 Fed. 920; United Transp. & Lighterage
Co. v. New York & Baltimore Transp. Line, 185 Fed. 386; Anderson
& Co. v. Susquehanna S. S. Co., 275 Fed. 989, 991, aff'd in 6 F. (2d)
858. Compare The Electron, 48 Fed. 689; Meyer v. Pacific Mail
S. S. Co., 58 Fed. 923. The application of Admiralty Rule 56 is
limited by similar considerations of jurisdiction. The Goyaz, 281
Fed. 259; Aktieselskabet Fido v. Lloyd Braziliero, 283 Fed. 62;
Reichert Towing Line v. Long Island Machine & Marine Const. Co.,
287 Fed. 269. See also Red Cross Line v. Atlantic Fruit Co., 264
U. S. 109, 123.

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for Petitioners.

270 U. S.

prive the admiralty court of jurisdiction. No party to
this suit sought to enforce any right under either of the
non-maritime contracts.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE took no part in the decision of this
case.
CHESAPEAKE & OHIO RAILWAY COMPANY v,
WESTINGHOUSE, CHURCH, KERR & CO., INC.
MELLON, DIRECTOR GENERAL OF RAILROADS,
v. WESTINGHOUSE, CHURCH, KERR & CO.,
INC.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF APPEALS OF THE
STATE OF VIRGINIA.

Nos. 170 and 171.

Argued January 25, 1926.-Decided March 1
1926.

1. Where spotting service is included in the line-haul tariff charge,
the carrier can not charge extra for it, even when done by assigning
a special engine and crew for handling the cars on a shipper's
industrial tracks to expedite delivery at a time of freight congestion
at the terminal. P. 265.
2. A contract for such special service held void, and the extra charge
under it uncollectible, both because such charge was illegal and
because such special service was an undue preference. P. 266.
138 Va. 647, affirmed.
CERTIORARI to judgments of the Supreme Court of
Appeals of Virginia, affirming judgments rendered for the
respondents in two actions brought, the one by the Railway Company, the other by the Director General of
Railroads, to recover special charges for the use of an
engine and crew.

Messrs. Sherlock Bronson and David H. Leake, with
whom Messrs. Walter Leake and A. A. McLaughlin were
on the brief, for petitioners.

