MOORE v. N. Y. COTTON EXCHANGE.

593

Syllabus.

MOORE, PRESIDENT OF THE ODD-LOT COTTON
.EXCHANGE OF NEW YORK, v. NEW YORK
COTTON EXCHANGE ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 200. Argued March 9, 1926.-Decided April 12, 1926.
1. Relief, under the Trade Commission Act, against unfair competition, must be afforded in the first instance by the Commission.
P. 603.
2. A decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals affirming orders which
denied an interlocutory injunction to the plaintiff and granted one
to the defendant, and remanding the cause with direction to dismiss the bill and make the injunction permanent, is final for purposes of appeal. Id.
3. Transactions between the members of the New York Cotton Exchange, consisting of agreements made on the spot for purchase
and sale of cotton for future delivery, the cotton to be represented
by warehouse receipts issued by a licensed warehouse in the Port
of New York and to be deliverable from such warehouse, are local
transactions not involving interestate commerce. Id.
4. The fact that such agreements are likely to give rise to interstate
shipments does not make the agreements interstate commerce, such
shipments being merely incidental. Id.
5. A contract between the cotton exchange and a telegraph company,
under which the exchange at its own expense collects its quotations
of such sales and delivers them to the telegraph company, which
transmits them like other messages, at the charges of the recipients,
to such persons only as the exchange approves, the telegraph paying
the exchange for the privilege of having the business,-is not a
violation of the Sherman Anti-Trust Act. P. 604.
6., In thus furnishing quotations to some and refusing them to others,
the exchange is but exercising the ordinary right of a vendor of
news; the telegraph company, as carrier, can not deliver the mes,
sages to others than those designated by the seller; and the contract
between exchange and telegraph does not, in purpose or effect,
operate directly or unreasonably to restrain interstate commerce,
or to create a monopoly. P. 605.
7. A bill setting up a claim under a federal statute which, though
unjustified, is not devoid of all color of merit, invokes the federal
100569°-26---38

594.

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for Appellant.

270 U. S.

jurisdiction to decide the claim, and a decision dismissing the bill
upon rejection of the claim is not a dismissal for want of jurisdiction. P. 608.
8. Under Equity Rule 30, requiring that the answer state any
counterclaim "arising out of the transaction which is the subject
matter of the suit," a cotton exchange, in a suit against it and a
telegraph company to cancel a contract between them respectiAg
the sending out of exchange quotations and for a mandatory injunction to compel delivery of quotations to plaintiff, was entitled
to seek by counterclaim an injunction restraining the plaintiff from
wrongfully obtaining its quotations. P. 609.
296 Fed. 61, affirmed.

APPEAL from a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
which on interlocutory appeal sustained orders of the
District Court (291 Fed. 681) refusing an interlocutory
injunction to the plaintiff and granting one for a defendant on -a counter claim, and which directed a final
decree dismissing the bill and making the injunction
permanent. The suit was based on the Sherman Law and
primarily concerned the validity of a contract between
the New York Cotton Exchange and the Western Union
Telegraph Company for the distribution of quotations of
that exchange to such persons only as received its
approval.
Mr. John M. Coleman, with whom Mr. Oscar B. Bergstrom was on the brief, for appellant.
Under the circumstances, the continuous cotton quotations, as made and issued by the New York Cotton
Exchange, are an instrumentality of interstate commerce--as much so as a railroad car or telegraph wire.
It is -true that the cotton sought to be bought and sold
is not yet in transit in interstate commerce, but its initiation into interstate commerce depends upon the use of
these quotations, which the appellees furnish to appellant's competitors, but deny to appellants, and hence restrain the appellant from competing in such interstate
commerce.

MOORE v. N. Y. COTTON EXCHANGE.
593

595

Argument for Appellant.

The question here is not whether the quotations arise
out of local transactions or otherwise, but the nature
and functions of the quotations themselves, after they
have been created, and become a distinct property or
instrumentality. The fact that the quotations arise out
of local transactions can have no greater bearing upon the
question as to whether they constitute interstate commerce, than the fact that cotton shipped in interstate
commerce has been grown on a plantation within the
State as a local production.
The gravamen of the bill is, that the New York Cotton
Exchange, in formulating quotations of actual transactions and selling the quotations to individuals and
other exchanges in the State of New York, and in other
States, for use in purchase, sale, and transportation of
cotton, is engaged in interstate commerce as to these particular quotations,-which is an entirely different question from transactions taking place on the board of the
exchange.
The Western Union Telegraph Company, having acquired the exclusive right to, such .quotations, is engaged
in selling the same in all States of the United States where
there are dealings in and transportation of cotton, and in
transmitting such quotations over its wires, and so is engaged in interstate commerce with reference to these particular quotation
.
The cases of Hopkins v. United States, 171 U. S. 578,
and Anderson v. United States, 171 U. S. 604, have often
been considered by this Court, and have been narrowly
limited to their facts; Stafford v. Wallace, 259 U. S. 44;
Swift v. United States, 196 U. S. 375. The case at bar is
much stronger than Ramsay & Co. v. Associated Bill Posters, 260 U. S. 501, and comes within the decisions quoted
above, and Binderup v. Pathe Exchange, 263 U. S. 491.
The allegations of the bill show that the continuous
quotations constitute' arf absolute monopoly of the sale

"596

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for Appellant.

270 U. S.

and transportation of cotton in interstate commerce, and
that, by confining such quotations to its members and its
selected customers, the Exchange restrains and prevents
all competition in the cotton industry. It is conceded
that no person can conduct such a business without the
use of such quotations. The Exchange, being engaged in
the business of selling its quotations, cannot lawfully discriminate in such a manner as to produce a monopoly in
the cotton industry. United States v. Patten, 226 U. S.
525.
Assuming that the continuous cotton quotations are
instrumentalities of interstate commerce, and have been
dedicated to that service by the voluntary act of the
owner, appellant contends that any act of the owner,
tending to create a monopoly in the cotton industry, or
imposing a burden upon, or restriction in, the free flow
of commerce in such industry among the States, constitutes a violation of the Sherman Anti-Trust Law, and
may be enjoined under the Clayton Act. Under the contract, the Exchange has sold the continuous cotton quotations to the Telegraph Company for $27,500 per annum
The Telegraph Company is authorized to resell the quotations at any price it sees fit, excepting, however, the members of the Cotton Exchange, to whom the resale price is
fixed. The Cotton Exchange has no pecuniary interest
in such resale. It has parted with its title to the quotations. It has, however, reserved the right to select the
persons to whom the Telegraph Company may resell such
quotations. The reservation is arbitrary and not in anywise conditional. See Strauss v. Victor Co., 243 U. S. 490;
Bauer v. O'Donnell, 229 U. S. 1.
The Telegraph Company was not the agent of the
Exchange, but by the purchase -of the quotations became ani was the owner of them. The Telegraph Company is a quasi public service corporation, and when it
engaged in the business of selling cotton quotations, and

MOORE v. N. Y. COTTON EXCHANGE.
593

597

Argument for Appellees.

transmitting the same over its wires, became bound, as
a condition of its corporate existence, to furnish such
quotations to all persons on equal basis. As a public
service corporation, it was bound to serve all to the extent of its capacity or none. Doty v* American Tel. & Tel.
Co., 123 Tenn. 320; Western Union Tel. Co. v. Foster,
224 Mass. 365; Thomas v. Railway Co., 101 U. S. 83,
and other cases.
The court had no jurisdiction of the counterclaim because, first, it does not arise out of any transaction between the parties which is the subject matter of the suit,
second, the counterclaim is not one which might be the
subject of an independent suit in equity against the
appellant in a federal court. StandardPaint Co. v. Trinidad Asphalt Co., 220 U. S. 446; Ayers v. Wiswall, 112
U. S. 190; Merchants Co. v. Clow, 204 U. S. 290; U. S.
Boat Co. v. Kronche Hardware Co., 234 'Fed. 868;
Engineering Co. v. Gallion Truck Co., 243 Fed. 407;
Geneva Furniture Co. v. Karpen, 238 U. S. 254; Cushman v. Atlantis Pen Co., 164 Fed. 94; National Casket
Co. v. Brooklyn Casket Co., 185 Fed. 533; Electric Boat
Co. v. Lake Torpedo Boat Co., 215 Fed: 377; Johnston
v. Brass Goods Mfg. Co., 201 Fed. 368; Keasby Co., v.
Phillip Carey Co., 113 Fed. 43; King & Co. v. Englander,
133 Fed: 416; Mecky v. Grabowski, 177 Fed. 591; Burt
v. Smith, 71 Fed. 161.
Mr. George W. Wickersham, with whom Messrs. Henry
TV. Taft and George Coggill were on the brief, for New
York Cotton Exchange, appellee.
This suit is not sustainable under the federal Anti-Trust
Laws. Standard Oil Co. v. United States, 221 U. S. 1;
United States v. Amer. Tobacco Co., 221 U. S. 106; United
States v. Union Placific R. R. Co., 226 U. S. 61; United
States v. Reading Co., 226 U. S. 324; Nash v. United
States, 229 U. S. 373; Eastern States Lumber Assn, v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for Appellees.

270 U. S.

United States, 234 U. S. 600; United States v. Joint TrafficAssn., 171 U. S. 505; Hopkins v. United States, 171 U.
S. 578; Anderson v. United States, 171 U. S. 604; Board
of Trade v. United States, 246 U. S. 231.
In determining whether the contract is within the stat-ute, all the facts and circumstances existing at the time
of its enactment, as well as its effect, are to be taken into
consideration. Anderson v. United States, 171 U. S. 604;
Cont. Wall Paper Co. v. Voight & Sons Co., 212 U. S.
227; United States v. St. Louis Terminal, 224 U. S. 383;
United States v. Union Pacific R. R. Co., 226 U. S. 61;
United States v. Reading Co., 226 U. S. 324; Swift v.
United States, 196 U. S. 375.
The contract does not undertake to fix the prices which
the Telegraph Company must exact from those desiring
the continuous or other quotations. It does fix the maximum price to be charged members of the Exchange, but
does not prescribe rhiinimum prices t9 anybody. BobbsMerrill Co. v. Straus, 210 U. S. 339; Dr. Miles Medical
Co. v. Park & Sons Co., 220 U. S. 373; Bauer & Cie v.
O'Donnell, 229 U. S. 1; Straus v. Am. Publishers Assn.,
231 U. S. 222; Straus v. Victor Co., 243 U. S. 490; Boston
Store v. Am. GraphophoneCo., 246 U. S. 8; United States
v. Schrader's Sons, Inc., 252 U. S. 85. The contract is
but a normal method of accomplishing a highly beneficial
purpose-the prevention of the use of quotations in
bucket shops. As such the contract is not within § 1 of
the Sherman Act as construed by decisions of this Court
already cited. Nor can the contract be construed as an
attempt to monopolize interstate commerce within § 2
of the Sherman Anti-Trust Act. The quotations of the
Cotton Exchange, when collected and distributed under
the restrictions prescribed by this contract, are property
and belong exclusively to that Exchange. Board of Trade
v. Christie, 198 U., S. 236; Hunt v. New York Cotton
Exchange, 205 U. S. 322.

MOORE v. N. Y. COTTON EXCHANGE.
593

699

Argument for Appellees.

In legal effect, this is a contract by which the Telegraph Company, as the carrier, agrees to transmit this
news for the Exchange to certain persons to be designated by it, and to accept from the Exchange as compensation for the service all that can be realized from the
quotations in excess of $27,500 per year, the Telegraph
Company guaranteeing that the distribution shall net the
Exchange that sum. In other w6rds the Exchange is the
real distributor of the quotations, and the Telegraph Company is an agency employed by the Exchange to facilitate such distributions. A similar contract was thus construed in Matter of Renville, 46 App. Div. 37. See also
Wilson v. Commercial Telegram Co., 3 N. Y. Supp: 633,
and Bryant v. Western Union Tel. Co., 17 Fed. 825.
As the owner of the quotations, the Exchange is under
no legal duty to sell to any particular person nor to'sell
to all because it sells to some. Whitwell v. Cont. Tobacco
Co., 125 Fed. 454; United States v. Trans-Missouri
Freight Assn., 166 U. S. 290; Lumber Assn. v. United
States, 234 U. S. 600; United States v. Colgate & Co., 250
U. S. 300; United States v. Schrader'sSon, Inc., 252 U. S.
85; Bittermanv. L. & N. R. R. Co., 207 U. S. 205; Federal
Trade Comm. v. Curtis Pub. Co., 260 U. S. 568; Board of
Trade v. Christie Co., 198 U. S. 236; Miles Medical Co.
v. Park & Sons Co., 220 U. S. 373; New York, etc., Exchange v. Board of Trade, 127 Ill. 153.
The following cases uphold the right of an Exchange-at least ii the absence of affirmative legislation-to say
to whom its quotations shall go, especially where, as in
the case at bar, they are collected by the Exchange itself.
Board of Trade v. Christie, 116 Fed. 944; Matter of Renville, 46 App. Div. 37; Met. Grain & Stock Exch. v. Board
of Trade, 15 Fed. 847; Bryant v. Western Union Co., 17
Fed. 825; Marine Grain & Stock Exch. v. Western Union
Co., 22 Fed. 23; Wilson v. Comm. Tel. Co., 3 N. Y.
Supp. 633.

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for Appellees.

270 U. S.

That private property may be impressed with a public
use only by legislative act has also been decided. Express Cases, 117 U. S. 1; A. T. & S. F. R. Co. v. D.
& N. 0. R. Co., 110 U. S. 667; State v. Associated Press,
159 Mo. 410; Ladd v. S. C. P. & M. Co., 53 Tex. 172;
Del. L. & W. R. R. v. Central Stock Yards Co., 45 N. J.
Eq. 50; Heim v. N. Y. Stock Exchange, 118 N. Y. Supp.
591.
Compare New York, etc., Exchange v. Board of Trade,
127 Ill. 153, and Amer. Live Stock Commission Co. v.
Chicago Live Stock Exchange, 143 Ill. 210.
The quotations, not being impressed with a public use
while in the possession of the Exchange, do not become
thus open to all when given to the Telegraph Company.
The Exchange is the distributor through the agency of
the Telegraph Company. Matthews v. Associated Press,
136 N. Y. 333; State v. Associated Press, 159 Mo. 410.
The Telegraph Company under this contract acquires, if
any interest, only a restricted one-a right to sell to certain designated persons; and when it has done this its
entire interest in the quotations is gone. Bitterman v.
L. & N. R. R. Co., 207 U. S. 205. Furthermore, if the
Telegraph Company be adjudged the seller of the quotations, it is not, in delivering them to the designated
persons, acting in its public capacity as a common carrier, but merely as a dealer in news, and it should not
be required to give to others what it has not itself legally
acquired. Again, there are certain things a carrier may
do, which are not subject to the rule that all persons
must be treated by it alike. Missouri Pacific R. R. v.
Nebraska, 164 U. S. 403; Express Cases, 117 U. S. 1;
Donovan v. Penn. Co., 199 U. S. 279; Old Colony R. R.
v. Tripp, 147 Mass. 35; Sargent v. Boston & Lowell R. R.,
115 Mass. 416. A telegraph company, although a common carrier, as respects the transmission of messages for
hire, is not such in its purchase and sale of news. Brad-

MOORE v. N. Y. COTTON EXCHANGE.
593

601

Opinion of the Court.

ley v. Western Union Co., 8 Ohio Dec. 707; Sterrett v.
Telegraph Co., 18 Weekly Notes of Cas. 77. See also
Ches. & Pot. Tel. Co. v. Manning, 186 U. S. 238.
The transactions on which the amended bill is based
do not involve interstate commerce. Hopkins v. United
States, 171 U. S. 578; Anderson v. United States, 171
U. S. 604; Ware & Leland v. Mobile County, 209 U. S.
405; Hill v. Wallace, 259 U. S. 44; Board of Trade v.
Christie Co., 198 U. S. 236.
The Circuit Court of Appeals ha jurisdiction to entertain appellees' counterclaim and to grant a final injunction thereon.
Mr. FrancisR. Stark filed a, brief for the Western Union
and the, Gold Stock Telegraph Companies, appellees.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The Odd-Lot Cotton Exchange is an organization
whose members make contracts for themselves and for
customers for the future delivery of cotton in lots of not
more than 100 nor less than 10 bales. The members of
the New York Cotton Exchange, which is organized under
a special act of the New York Legislature, c. 365, Laws
1871, p. 724, also make contracts for the purchase and
sale of cotton for future delivery, either for themselves
or for customers; such contracts being made only upon
open viva voce bidding, between certain hours of the day
and in the rooms of the exchange in New York City. Quotations of prices thus established are collected by the New
York exchange, and, under the terms of a written agreement with that exchange, the Western Union company
pays $27,500 annually for the privilege of receiving and
distributing them throughout the United States, to such
persons as the exchange approves. Applicants for such
quotations must sign an application and agree not to

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

use them in connection with a bucket shop or to give
them out to other persons. The Gold & Stock Telegraph Company, a New York corporation and a subsidiary of, and controlled by, the Western Union, is engaged
in disseminating quotations of cotton prices by means of
ticker service, owned and operated by it, tickers being
located in exchanges, brokerage houses and elsewhere in
the several states. The Odd-Lot exchange made application to the two telegraph companies for this service in
the form required by the contract with the New York
exchange. It was refused, the New York exchange having
declined to give its consent to he installation on the
ground, among others, that, after investigation, it had
ascertained that the Odd-Lot had succeeded another exchange which had been convicted of conducting a bucket
shop and that the Odd-Lot had in its membership many
members of the convicted exchange and was organized
as a cover to enable its members to engage in the same
unlawful business.
Federal jurisdiction is invoked under the anti-trust
laws of the United States. The bill avers that the contracts between members of the Odd-Lot are chiefly for
producers of cotton and others located, resident and in
business in other states than New York, and are made
and effectuated by communications through the Western Union by wire; that such contracts concern and include deliveries of cotton from cotton-growing states to
and into the State of New York, involving actual interstate shipment and transportation; that the New York
exchange has a monopoly upon the receipt and dissemination of cotton price quotations, through which quotations and prices of cotton, both spot and for future delivery, are influenced, guided and fixed in the exchanges
and markets throughout the United States; that the contract with the Western Union is in restraint of interstate
trade and commerce in cotton and was entered into for

MOORE v. N. Y. COTTON EXCHANGE.
593

'603

Opinion of the Court.

the purpose of monopolizing and restraining that commerce. There is an attempt to allege unfair methods of
competition, which may be put aside at once, since relief
in such cases under the Trade Commission Act must be
afforded in the first instance by the commission.
The prayer is for a decree cancelling the Western
Union contract, adjudging the New York Cotton Exchange to be a monopoly, restraining appellees from refusing to install a ticker and furnish the Odd-Lot and its
members, as they do others, with continuous cotton quotations, and for other relief.
The answer, in addition to denials and affirmative defensive matter, sets up a counterclaim to the effect that
the Odd-Lot, though it had been refused permission to
use the quotations of the New York exchange, was purloining them, or receiving them from some person who
was purloining them, and giving them out to its members, who were distributing them to bucket ships, with
the consequent impairment of the value of appellees'
property therein. An injunction against the continuance
of this practice was asked.
Both parties moved for interlocutory injunctions. The
district court denied appellant's motion and granted that
of appellees. 291 Fed. 681. Upon appeal, both orders
were affirmed by the c3urt of appeals. 296 Fed. 61. By
stipulation of the parties authorizing such action, the
court of appeals remanded the cause with directions to
the district court to enter a final decree dismissing the
bill and making permanent the injunction granted appellees. Since this left to the district court only the
ministerial duty of complying with the mandate, the
decree below, for purposes of appeal, is final. Gulf Refining Co. v. United States, 269 U. S. 125, 136.
First. We are of opinion that upon the allegations of
the bill no case is made under the federal anti-trust laws.

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

The only possible ground on which the suit can be maintained rests in the claim that there is a violation of §§ 1
and 2 of the Sherman Anti-Trust Act, c. 647, 26 Stat.
209, for which appellant is entitled to sue under § 16 of
the Clayton Act, c. 323, 38 Stat. 737. And whether this
claim is tenable turns alone upon the effect of the contract between the New York exchange and the Western
Union. Independent of that contract, there is no averment of fact in the bill upon which a violation of the
Anti-Trust Act can be predicated. The New York exchange is engaged in a local business. Transactions between its members are purely lcal in their inception
and in their execution. They consist of agreements made
on the spot for the purchase and sale of cotton for future
delivery, with a provision that such cotton must be represented by a warehouse receipt issued by a licensed
warehouse in the Port of New York and be deliverable
from such warehouse. Such agreements do not provide
for, nor does it appear that they contemplate, the shipment of cotton from one state to another. If interstate
shipments are actually made, it is not because of any
contractual obligation to that effect; but it is a chance
happening which cannot have the effect of converting
these purely local agreements or the transactions to which
they relate into subjects of interstate commerce. Ware
& Leland v. Mobile County, 209 U. S. 405, 412-413. The
most that can be said is that the agreements are likely
to give rise to interstate shipments. This is not enough.
Engel v. O'Malley, 219 U. S. 128, 139. See also Hopkins
v. United States, 171 U. S. 578, 588, 590; Anderson v.
United States, 171 U. S. 604, 615-616.
It is equally clear that the contract with the Western
Union for the distribution of the quotations to such persons as the New York exchange shall approve does not
fall within the reach of the Anti-Trust Act. Under that
contract, the exchange at its own expense collects the quo-

MOORE v. N. Y. COTTON EXCHANGE.
593

'605

Opinion of the Court.

tations and delivers them to the telegraph company for
distribution to such approved persons. The real distributor is the exchange; the telegraph company is an
agency through which the distribution is made. In effect,
the exchange hands over the quotations, as it might any
other message, to the telegraph company for transmission, charges to be collected from the receivers. The
payment which the telegraph company makes to the
exchange is for the privilege of having the business. It
does not alter the chara~ter of the service rendered.
In furnishing the quotations to one and refusing to
furnish them to another, the exchange is but exercising
the ordinary right of a private vendor of news or other
property. As a common carrier of messages for hire, the
telegraph company, of course, is bound to carry for all
alike. But it cannot be required-indeed, it is not permitted-to deliver messages to others than those designated by the sender. We fully agree with what is said
upon similar facts by Judge Ingraham in Matter of Renville, 46 App. Div. 37, 43-44:
"I cannot see that it makes any difference whether a
despatch is given to a telegraph company to be communicated to a single individual, or to be communicated to
ten, a hundred or. a thousand individualb. Under this
agreement between the stock exchange and the respondents, certain information is given to the telegraph company to be communicated to individuals or corporations
designated by the stock exchange. Whether we call this
information a special despatch or general information
which the stock exchange desires to communicate, seems
to me to be entirely immaterial. The fact that the telegraph company pays to the stock exchange a certain sum
of money for the information which it receives to transmit
is also immaterial. The substance is that those to whom
this information is directed to be given by the stock
exchange are willing to pay the stock exchange for such

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

information, and are also willing to pay the telegraph
company the expense of transmitting the information.
The information delivered to the respondents for transmission is a communication which the stock exchange
wishes to transmit to the persons it designates and to
no one else. I can see no reason why the stock exchange
should be required to furnish the appellant with this information, which relates solely to its own business upon
its own property, or why the respondents should be required to violate their agreement with the stock exchange
and the law of this State, and furnish to the appellant
information which had been cori municated to the respondents by the stock exchange for a specific purpose
and none other."
So far as the exchange is concerned, the evident purpose of the contract was to further and protect its business. The terms are entirely appropriate and legitimate
to that end. The effect of the making and execution of
the contract upon interstate trade or commerce, if any,
is indirect and incidental. Neither in purpose nor effect
does it directly or unreasonably restrain such commerce
or operate to create a monopoly. It has long been settled
by this court that under such circumstances a trader or
manufacturer engaged in a purely private business may
freely exercise his independent -discretion in respect of
the persons with whom he will deal and to whom he will
sell and refuse to sell. Cases to this effect are cited in
the opinion of the court below. It is unnecessary to repeat, or add to, those citations here. It is enough to
refer to the decision of this court in Board of Trade v.
Christie Grain & Stock Co., 198 U. S. 236, 250, 252,
where, in all essential particulars, the question now under
review was presented and determined. There a suit was
brought by the Board of Trade to enjoin the defendants
from getting and distributing price quotations on sales
of grain and provisions for future delivery. They were

MOORE v. N. Y. COTTON EXCHANGE.
593

607

Opinion of the Court.

obtained in some way not disclosed, but not from either
of the telegraph companies authorized by contract to distribute them, as the Western Union was authorized here.
This court held that the collection of quotations belonged
to the Board and was entitled to protection; that the
Board did not lose its rights by communicating the information to others in confidential relations to it and
under contract not to make it public; and that defendants
should be enjoined. Holding the contracts with the telegraph companies not to be in conflict with the AntiTrust Act, it was said (p. 252):
"But so far as these contracts limit the communication
of what the plaintiff might have refrained from communicating to any one, there is no monopoly or attempt at
monopoly, and no contract in restraint of trade, either
under the statute or at common law. Bement v. National
Harrow Co., 186 U. S. 70; Fowle v. Park, 131 U. S. 88;
Elliman v. Carrington, [19011 2 Ch. 275. It is argued
that the true purpose is to exclude all persons who do
not deal through members of the Board of Trade.
Whether there is anything in the law to hinder these
regulations being made with that intent we shall not
consider, as we do not regard, such a general scheme as
shown by the contracts or proved. A scheme to exclude
bucket shops is shown and proclaimed, no doubt-and
the defendants, with their contention as to the plaintiff,
call this an attempt at a monopoly in bucket shops. But
it is simply a restraint on the acquisition for illegal purposes of the fruits of the plaintiff's work. Central Stock
& Grain Exchange v. Board of Trade, 196 Illinois, 396.
We are of opinion that the plaintiff is entitled to an
injunction as prayed."
Second. The decree granting an injunction upon the
counterclaim is challenged on the grounds, shortly stated:
(1) that the court, having dismissed the bill for lack of
jurisdictional facts, should have dismissed the counter-

608

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

claim also, there being no independent basis of jurisdiction; (2) that the counterclaim does not arise out of any
transaction which is the subject-matter of the suit; and
(3) that the decree is not justified by the allegations of
the counterclaim or the proof.
1. We do not understand that the dismissal was for
the reason that there was an absence of jurisdiction to
entertain the bill. What the court held was that the
facts alleged were insufficient to establish a case under
the Anti-Trust Act. Whether the objection that a bill
of complaint does not state a case within the terms of a
federal statute challenges the jurisdiction or goes only
to the merits, is not always easy to determine. The
question has been recently reviewed at some length by
this court in Binderup v. Pathe Exchange, 263 U. S. 291,
305, and the distinction pointed out as follows:
"Jurisdiction is the power to decide a justiciable controversy, and includes questions of law as well as of fact.
A complaint setting forth a substantial claim under a
federal statute presents a case within the jurisdiction of
the court as a federal court; and this jurisdiction cannot
be made to stand or fall upon the way the court may
chance to decide an issue as to the legal sufficiency of the
facts alleged any more than upon the way it may decide
as to the legal sufficiency of the facts proven. Its decision
either way upon either question is predicated upon the
existence of jurisdiction, not upon the absence of it.
Jurisdiction, as distinguished from merits, is wanting only
where the claim set forth in the complaint is so unsubstantial as to be frivolous or, in other words, is plainly without
color of merit. [Citing cases.] In that event the claim
of federal right under the statute, is a mere pretence and,
in effect, is no claim at all."
Here, facts are set forth in a serious attempt to justify
the claim that the federal statute has been violated: and,
while we hold them to be insufficient to sustain the claim,

MOORE v. N. Y. COTTON EXCHANGE.
593

609

Opinion of the Court.

we are not prepared to say that they are so obviously
insufficient as to cause it to be without color of merit and,
in effect, no claim at all. We think there is enough in the
bill to call for the exercise of the jurisdiction of a federal
court to decide, upon the merits, the issue of the legal
sufficiency of the allegations to make out the claim of
federal right. This was evidently the view of the court
below, and we construe its mandate as a direction to dismiss the bill on the merits and not for want of jurisdiction.
2. Equity rule 30 in part provides:
"The answer must state in short and simple form any
counter-claim arising out of the transaction which is the
subject matter of the suit, and may, without cross-bill,
set up any set-off or counter-claim against the plaintiff
which might be the subject of an independent suit in
equity against him, and such set-off or counter-claim, so
set up, shall have the same effect as a cross-suit, so as to
enable the court to pronounce a final decree in the same
suit on both the original and the cross-claims."
Two classes of counterclaims thus are provided for: (a)
one " arising out of the transaction which is the subject
matter of the suit," which must be pleaded, and (b)
another "which might be the. subject of an independent
suit in equity" and which may be brought forward at the
option of the defendant. We are of opinion that this
counterclaim comes within the first branch of the rule;
and we need not consider the point that, under the second
branch, federal jurisdiction independent of the original
bill must appear, as was held in Cleveland Engineering
Co. v. Galion D. M. Truck Co., 243 Fed. 405, 407.
The bill sets forth the contract with the Western Union
and the refusal of the New York exchange to allow appellant to receive the continuous cotton quotations, and asks
a mandatory injunction' to compel appellees to furnish
them. The answer admits the refusal and justifies it.
The counterclaim sets up that, nevertheless, appellant is
100569*-26----39

OCTOBER TEfRM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U.S.

purloining or otherwise illegally obtaining them, and asks
that this practice be enjoined. "Transaction" is a word
of flexible meaning. It may comprehend a series of many
occurrences, depending not so much upon the immediateness of their connection as upon. their logical relationship.
The refusal to furnish the quotations is one of the links
in the chain which constitutes the transaction upon which
appellant here bases its cause of action. It is an important part of the transaction constituting the subject-matter of the counterclaim. It isthe one circumstance without which neither party would have found it necessary to
seek relief. Essential facts alleged by appellant enter into
and constitute in part the cause of action set forth in the
counterclaim, That they are not precisely identical, or
that the counterclaim embraces additional allegations, as,
for example, that appellant is unlawfully getting the quotations, does not matter. To hold otherwise would be to
rob this branch of the rule of all serviceable meaning,
since the facts relied upon by the plaintiff rarely, if ever,
are, in all particulars, the same as those constituting the
defendant's counterclaim. Compare The Xenia Branch
Bank v. Lee, 7 Abb. Pr. 372, 390-394. And see generally,
Cleveland Engineering Co. v. Galion D. M. Truck Co.,
supra, p. 408; Champion Spark Plug Co. v. Champion
Ignition Co., 247 Fed. 200, 203-205.
So close is the connection between the case sought to
be stated in the bill and that set up in the counterclaim,
that it only needs the failure of the former to establish a
foundation for the latter; but the relief afforded by the
dismissal of the bill is not complete without an injunction
restraining appellant from continuing to obtain by
stealthy appropriation what the court had held it could
not have by judicial compulsion.
3. Finally, the point is made that the court of appeals
erred in directing the district court to enter a final decree
making permanent the interlocutory injunction granted

CHICAGO, R. I. & P. RY. v. SCHENDEL.
593

611

Syllabus.

on the counterclaim because not warranted by the allegations or proof. Evidently for the purpose of facilitating
an appeal to this court, appellant, by stipulation, consented that the affidavits filed in support of the preliminary application should be treated as testimony in support
of the counterclaim and, on this, that the court of appeals
might direct the entry of a final decree. The district court
thought the pleadings and affidavits sufficient to warrant
a preliminary injunction and the court of appeals thought
them sufficient to sustain a decree making that injunction
permanent. We see no reason to differ with their conclusions.
Decree affirmed.
CHICAGO, ROCK ISLAND & PACIFIC RAILWAY
COMPANY v. SCHENDEL, ADMINISTRATOR.
THE SAME v. ELDER.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME

COURT OF THE STATE

OF

MINNESOTA.

Nos. 683, 684.

Argued March 17, 18, 1926.-Decided April 12, 1926.

1. The effect of a judgment as res judicata between adverse parties
is not dependent on the arrangement of the parties in the record
or on which of them was the actor. P. 615.
2. A judgment on the same cause of action may be availed of as a
bar in an action pending in another jurisdiction which began before
the one in which the judgment was recovered. Id.
3. A judgment fixing the compensation recoverable on account of the
death of a railroad employee, due to an accident in Iowa, was
rendered by an Iowa court in proceedings under the Iowa compensation act brought by the railroad, and was pleaded by the railroad
in an action brought against it for the same cause in Minnqsota
under the Federal Employers' Liability Act. Held that both courts
had jurisdiction to decide -whether the deceased was engaged mi
intrastate or interstate commerce, and that the Iowa judgment,
being the earlier one rendered, was res judicata in the other action,
although the other was brought first. P. 616.

