402

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Syllabus.

270 U.S.

a false theory helped out by the fiction that by a claim
it is reduced to practice. A new application and a claim
may be based on the original description within two years,
and the original priority established notwithstanding intervening claims. Chapman v. Wintroath, 252 U. S. 126,
137. A description that would bar a patent if printed in
a periodical or in an issued patent is equally effective in
an application so far as reduction to practice goes.
As to the analogies relied upon below, the disregard of
abandoned patent applications, however explained, cannot be taken to establish a principle beyond the rule as
actually applied. As an empirical rule it no doubt is
convenient if not necessary to the Patent Office, and we
are not disposed to disturb it, although we infer that
originally the practice of the Office was differnt. The
policy of the statute as to foreign inventions obviously
stands on its own footing and cannot be applied to domestic affairs. The fundamental rule we repeat is that
the patentee must be the first inventor. The qualifications in aid of a wish to encourage improvements or to
avoid laborious investigations do rfot prevent the rule
from applying here.
Decree reversed.
WEAVER v. PALMER BROTHERS COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

No.

510. Argued December 11, 1925.-Decided March 8, 1926.

1. Legislative determinations are entitled to great weight; but it is
always open to interested parties to show that the legislature has
transgressed the limits of its power. P. 410.
2. Invalidity of a legislative act may be shown by things that may
be judicially noticed, or by facts established by evidence, the burden
being on the attacking party to establish the invalidating facts.

P. 410.

WEAVER v. PALMER BROS. CO.
402

Counsel for Appellant.

3. A state law (Pa. Ls. 1923, c. 802,) forbidding the use, in comfortables, of shoddy, even when sterilized, is so far arbitrary and
unreasonable that it violates the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. Pp. 410, 415.
4. Without considering whether the mere failure of the Act to prohibit the use of other filling materials is sufficient to invalidate the
prohibition of the use of shoddy as a violation of the equal protection clause, the number and character of the things permitted
to be used in such manufacture properly may be taken into account
in deciding whether the prohibition of shoddy is a reasonable
and valid regulation or is arbitrary and violative of the due
process clause. P. 412.
5. Such a prohibition can not be sustained, as a health measure, in
face of evidence showing that shoddy, even when composed of
secondhand materialA, is rendered harmless by sterilization, and
in face of permission, in the same Act, to use numerous other kinds
of materials, if sterilized when secondhand. P. 411.
6. Nor can such prohibition be sustained as a measure to prevent
deception, since deception may be avoided by adequate regulations.
P. 414.
7. Constitutional guaranties can not be made to yield to mere convenience. P. 415.
S. Every opinion of the Court is to be read with regard to the facts
of the case and the question actually decided. Powell v. Pennsylvania, 127 U. S. 678, distinguished. P. 414.
3 Fed. (2d) 333, affirmed.

APPEAL from a decree of the District Court enjoining
the defendant (appellant), an official of Pennsylvania,
from enforcing against the plaintiff (appellee) a law of
that State regulating the manufacture and sale of bedding,
in so far as it forbade the use of shoddy. Plaintiff manufactured comfortables in Connecticut, using shoddy made
of new and secondhand materials, and sold its product in
Pennsylvania. See also 266 U. S. 588.

Mr. E. Lowry Humes, with whom Messrs. George W.
Woodruff, Attorney General of Pennsylvania, and James
0. Campbell, Deputy Attorney General, were on the brief,
for appellant.

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for Appellant.

270 U. S.

The legislature enacted the statute for the purpose of
protecting the public health, and securing the public
against fraud and deception. That these are proper purposes for the exercise of the police power is admitted.
The evil was the insanitary condition that existed in the
bedding industry, and the insanitary product which was
coming into the hands of the consuming public, as well
as the fraud and deception which was being practiced in
the make-up of the articles sold. Much knowledge of
this evil was and is a part of the common knowledge of
mankind. The Pennsylvania statute of 1913 and its
amendments related only to mattresses, and absolutely
prohibited the use of shoddy in their manufacture. With
the advantage of ten years' experience in the enforcement
of that Act, as well as a knowledge of the activities in
twenty-five other States where the police power had
already been invoked for the same purpose, the legislature, estimating the extent and character of the evil,
enacted the Act of 1923; and in this Act, extended the
regulations to all articles of stuffed and filled bedding,
including comfortables; and, to make effective enforcement possible, prescribed a new method of tagging and
labeling. Since this enactment, Maryland has adopted a
similar law, and the city of Spokane, Washington, has
passed an ordinance on the same subject.
The growth of the bedding industry and the development of the practices which led to such a general recognition of the existence of evil as to require the exercise
of the police power by the legislatures of twenty-seven
States and two large cities within a period of fourteen
years, demonstrates the wisdom of the words of this
Court in Holden v. Hardy, 169 U. S. 366, that the law is,
to a certain extent, a progressive science. The questions
raised in this case are more far reaching in their effect
than is evident on the face of the record; and the affirmation of the judgment of the court below would have the

WEAVER v. PALMER BROS. CO.
402

Argument for Appellant.

effect of striking down the legislative enactments of a
large number of States.
The state legislatures have a wide discretion in classifying subjects for police regulation. Heath & Milligan
MJg. Co. v. North Dakota, 207 U. S. 338; Ward and Gow
v. Krinsky, 259 U. S. 503; Connolly v. Union Sewer Pipe
Co., 184 U. S. 540. Inasmuch as the Pennsylvania legislation made a classification "which bears a reasonable
and just relation to the act" in question, it cannot be
seriously contended that the appellee. or any other person has been denied the equal protection of the law. The
prohibitions, restrictions, regulations, penalties, and burdens fall equally' on all persons similarly situated.
Magoun v. Illinois Trust & Say. Bk., 170 U. S. 283;
Powell v. Commonwealth, 127 U. S. 678. The conclusion
of the court below is that *theonly provision of the Act
which violates the 14th Amendment is the* provision
which absolutely prohibits the use of shoddy in the
articles covered by the Act. Every provision of the Act
is based upon the same classification and therefore if the
classification is arbitrary the equal.protection of the laws
clause of the 14th Amendment is violated by the entire
Act, and the entire Act must fall. Under the definitions
in the Act, secondhand materials are materials whose
identity and prior use can be readily determined, and are
confined almost entirely to materials formerly used as
bedding and re-used only in remaking and renovating.
Except when remade and renovated for the owner, the
use of these materials is limited. Shoddy, however, in the
process of manufacture, loses its identity. Its nature
facilitates the practice of fraud and deceit.
The question as to whether or not the legislature exercised good judgment in enacting the measure is immaterial for the purposes of this case. Heath & Milligan
Mfg. Co. v. North Dakota, 207 U. S. 338; State v. Emery,
178 Wis. 147; Price v. Illinois, 238 U. S. 446. This case

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for Appellee.

270 U. S.

is clearly ruled by Powell v. Commonwealth, 127 U. S.

678. Cf. People v. Weiner, 271 Ill. 74; Hannibal & St.
Joseph R. R. v. Husen, 95 U. S. 465.
The question for determination is the limited one
whether the challenged provisions had a reasonable relation to the purposes of the Act. That the cases cited by
the court below deny rather than establish the large discretionary judicial power which the court below assumed
to exercise, is shown by analysis of the cases themselves.
Meyer v. Nebraska, 262 U. S. 390; Welch v. Swasey, 214
U. S. 91; Dobbins v. Los Angeles, 195 U. S. 223; Connolly
'V.Union Sewer Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 540; Lawton v. Steele,
152 U. S. 133; Burns Baking Co. v. Bryan, 264 U. S. 504.
To argue the merit of this legislation, or the efficacy
of the remedies it invokes, would be to adopt the error into
which that court has already fallen.
Mr. Edwin TV. Smith, with whom Messrs. Carl E.
Glock and Frank L. McGuire were on the brief, for
appellee.
There is nothing in the Act nor in the testimony that
would indicate that the legislature, in the prohibition of
shoddy, was attempting to prevent fraud and deception.
It would seem that if anything could be seen it would
be that a certain material was shoddy, as against any other
kind of filling that might be used. But the provisions of
the statute as to labels seem to be effective as preventing
any fraud and deception, and these provisions the court
below has permitted to stand.
The history of the legislation is of little value in determining the case. It is well known that if a movement
of some sort is started, resulting in the passage of a statute
by one of the state legislatures, in a short time it is followed by other States, apparently without very much consideration. Thus it is that, starting in 1909, this bedding
legislation has spread in sixteen years to twenty-eight

WEAVER v. PALMER BROS. CO.
402

Argument for Appellee.

States. The futility of all this legislation is shown by
testimony in the record. It is only in Pennsylvania and
Maryland that the law is so broad as to cover filling made
by grinding up perfectly new and unused fabric. The
Maryland statute was passed in 1924, modelled after the
Pennsylvania statute. None of this legislation in Pennsylvania related to comfortables until the Act of 1923. There
has been no judicial interpretation of any of these statutes
except in the case of People v. Weiner, 271 Ill. 74.
The world's supply of new wool is insufficient to clothe
the people of the temperate zones and to meet other
demands. This scarcity and the public demand for
cheaper substitutes require the commercial use of reclaimed wool and cotton fiber. It is undenied and is a
well recognized fact that any fabric from which shoddy
may be made, may be sterilized by processes which are
comparatively cheap to operate.
The statute works a deprivation of liberty and property. If the interference is an unreasonable and arbitrary exercise of the police power, or if it has no
substantial relation to the public health, the Act violates
the 14th Amendment and is unconstitutional. Mugler v.
Kansas, 123 U. S. 523; Jay Burns Baking Co. et al. v.
Charles W. Bryan et al., 264 U. S. 504; Allgeyer v. Louisiana, 165 U. S. 578. Where there is any doubt as to
whether or not a thing prohibited is obnoxious, poisonous
or harmful, the determination by the legislature is conclusive; but if there is no doubt; that is, if the testimony
in the case shows that the thing prohibited is not harmful, or that it may be rendered harmless by proper regulation, then the court may say that its prohibition is
unreasonable and arbitrary. Price v. Illinois, 238 U. S.
466; Meyer v. Nebraska, 262 U. S. 390. The equal protection clause protects from discriminatory or class legislation. Missouri v. Lewis, 101 U. S. 22; Terrace v.
Thompson, 263 U. S. 197. Similar legislation was held

408

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

unconstitutional in People v. Weiner, 271 Ill. 74; Greensboro v. Ehrenreich, 80 Ala. 579; State v. Taft, 118 N. C.
1190; Koscinsko v. Slomberg, 68 Miss. 469. The prohibition of an article is unconstitutional if regulation will
accomplish the intended purpose. People v. Weiner,
supra; Hannibal & St. Joseph R. R. v. Husen, 95 U. S.
465; Greensboro v. Ehrenreich, supra; State v. Taft,
supra; Valley Rys. v. Harrisburg,280 Pa. 385; St. Louis
v. EVraiff, 256 S. W. 489; Booth v. Illinois, 184 U. S. 424;
Marymont v. Nevada State Banking Board, 33 Nev. 333;
Tiedeman on Police Power, p. 301. Distinguishing
Powell v. Pennsylvania, 127 U. S. 678; Crane v. Campbell, 245 U. S. 304; and Price v. Illinois, 238 U. S. 446.
The Act permits the use of the same mattresses and
blankets by different persons night after night in hotels
and Pullman cars. It permits hbspitals to use the same
bedding over and over again for one diseased patient
after another. The mattresses from the pesthouse are
remade and renovated legally under the Act with sterilization. Shoddy, however, is prohibited. The Act permits
shoddy in blankets, which come into immediate contact
with the body. It prohibits shoddy in comfortables,
which encase the shoddy in a cover of new fabric.
Mr. JUSTICE BUTLER delivered the opinion of the Court.

Appellee is a Connecticut corporation, and for more
than fifty years it and its founders have manufactured
comfortables in that State, and have sold them there and
in other States. An Act of the legislature of Pennsylvania,
approved June 14, 1923, regulates the manufacture, sterilization and sale of bedding. Section 1 of the Act prescribes the following definitions: "Mattress" means any
quilted pad, mattress, mattress pad, mattress protector,
bunk quilt or box spring, stuffed or filled with excelsior,
straw, hay, grass, corn husks, moss, fibre, cotton, wool,

WEAVER v. PALMER BROS. CO.
402

Opinion of the Court.

hair, jute, kapok, or other soft material. "Pillow,"
"bolster," or "feather bed" means any bag, case, or
covering made of cotton or other textile material, and
stuffed or filled with any filler mentioned in the definition
of mattress, or with feathers or feather down. The word
"comfortable" means any cover, quilt, or quilted article
made of cotton or other textile material, and stuffed or
filled with fibre, cotton, wool, hair, jute, feathers, feather
down, kapok, or other soft material. "Cushion" means
any bag or case made of leather, cotton, or other textile
material, and stuffed or filled with any filler, except jute
and straw, mentioned in the definition of "pillow," or
with tow. The word "new " as used in the Act means any
material or article which has not been previously manufactured or used for any purpose. "Secondhand " means
any material or article of which prior use has been made.
"Shoddy" means any material which has been spun into
yarn, knit or woven into fabric, and subsequently cut
up, torn up, broken up, or ground up.
Section 2 provides: "No person shall employ or use in
the making, remaking, or renovating of any mattress,
pillow, bolster, feather bed, comfortable, cushion, or article of upholstered furniture: (a) Any material known
as ' shoddy,' or any fabric or material from which 'shoddy'
is constructed; (b) any secondhand material, unless, since
last used, such secondhand material has been thoroughly
sterilized and disinfected by a reasonable process approved
by the Commissioner of Labor and Industry; (c) any new
or secondhand feathers, unless such new or secondhand
feathers have been sterilized and disinfected by a reasonable process approved by the Commissioner of Labor and
Industry." Punishment by fine or imprisonment is prescribed for every violation of the Act, and each sale is
declared to be a separate offense.
The Act took effect January 1, 1924. Appellant is
charged with its enforcement, and threatened to proceed

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

against the appellee and its customers. January 29, 1924,
appellee brought this suit to enjoin the enforcement of the
Act on the grounds, among others, that, as applied to
the business of appellee, it is repugnant to the due process and equal protection clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment. An application under ยง 266 of the Judicial Code
for a temporary injunction was denied. The decree was
affirmed by this court. 266 U. S. 588. Later,- defendant
answered, and there was a trial at which much evidence
was introduced. The District Court found that the statute
infringes appellee's constitutional rights insofar as it
absolutely prohibits the use of shoddy in the manufacture
of comfortables; and to that extent the decree restrains
its enforcement. This appeal is under ยง 238 of the Judicial
Code.
The question for decision is whether the provision purporting absolutely to forbid the use of shoddy in comfortables violates the due process clause of the equal protection clause. The answer depends on the facts of the
case. Legislative determinations express or implied are
entitled to great weight; but it is always open to interested parties to show that the legislature has transgressed
the limits of its power. Penna. Coal Co. v. Mahon, 260
U. S. 393, 413. Invalidity may be shown by things which
will be judicially noticed (Quong Wing v. Kirkendall,
223 U. S. 59, 64), or by facts established by evidence. The
burden is on the attacking party to establish the invalidating facts. See Minnesota, Rate Cases, 230 U. S. 352,
452.
For many years prior to the passage of the Act comfortables made in appellee's factories had been sold in
Pennsylvania.. In 1923, its business in that State exceeded $558,000 of which imore than $188,000 was for
comfortables filled with shoddy. About 5000 dozens of
these were filled with shoddy made of new materials, and
about 3000 dozens with secondhand shoddy. Appellee

WEAVER v. PALMER BROS. CO.
402

Opinion of the Court.

makes approximately 3,000,000 comfortables annually,
and about 750,000 of these are filled with materials
defined by the Act as shoddy. New material from which
appellee makes shoddy consists of clippings and pieces of
new cloth obtained from cutting tables in garment factories; secondhand shoddy is made of secondhand garments, rags, and the like. The record shows that annually many million pounds of fabric, new and secondhand, are made into shoddy. It is used for many purposes. It is rewoven into fabric; made into pads to be
used as filling material for bedding; and is used in the
manufacture of blankets, clothing, underwear, hosiery,
gloves, sweaters and other garments. The evidence is to
the effect that practically all the woolen cloth woven in
this country contains some shoddy. That used to make
comfortables is a different grade from that used in the
textile industry. Some used by appellee for that purpose is made of clippings from new woolen underwear and
other high grade and expensive materials. Comfortables
made of secondhand shoddy sell at lower prices than those
filled with other materials.
Appellant claims that, in order properly to protect
health, bedding material should be sterilized. The record
shows that, for the steriliAtion of secondhand materials
from which it makes shoddy, appellee uses effective steam
sterilizers. There is no controversy between the parties
as to whether shoddy may be rendered harmless by disinfection or sterilization. While it is sometimes made
from filthy rags, and from other materials that have been
exposed to infection, it stands undisputed that all dangers to health may be eliminated by appropriate treatment at low cost. In the course of its decision the District Court said, "It is conceded by all parties that shoddy
may be rendered perfectly harmless by sterilization." The
Act itself impliedly determines that proper sterilization is
practicable and effective. It permits the use of second-

412

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

hand materials and new and secondhand feathers when
sterilized, and it regulates processes for such sterilization.
There was no evidence that any sickness or disease was
ever caused by the use of shoddy, And the record contains persuasive evidence, and by citation discloses the
opinions of scientists eminent in fields related to public
health, that the transmission of disease-producing bacteria is almost entirely by immediate contact with, or
close proximity to, infected persons; that such bacteria
perish rapidly when separated from human or animal organisms; and that there is no probability that such
bacteria, or vermin likely to carry them, survive after the
period usually required for the gathering of the materials,
the production of shoddy, and the manufacture and the
shipping of comfortables. This evidence tends strongly
to show that, in the absence of sterilization or disinfection, there would be little, if any, danger to the health of
the users of comfortables filled with shoddy, new or secondhand; and confirms the conclusion that all danger
from the use of shoddy may be eliminated by sterilization.
The State has wide discretion in selecting things for
regulation. We need not consider whether the mere failure to forbid the use of other filling materials that are
mentioned in the Act is sufficient in itself to invalidate
the provision prohibiting the use of shoddy, as a violation of the equal protection clause. But the number and
character of the things permitted to be used in such
manufacture properly may be taken into account in deciding whether the prohibition of shoddy is a reasonable
and valid regulation, or is arbitrary and violative of the
due process clause. Shoddy-filled comfortables made by
appellee are useful articles for which there is much demand. And it is a matter of public concern that the production and sale of things necessary or convenient for
use should not be forbidden. They are to be distinguished

WEAVER v. PALMER BROS. CO.
402

Opinion of the Court.

from things that the State is deemed to have power to
suppress as inherently dangerous.
Many States have enacted laws to regulate bedding for
the protection of health. Legislation in Illinois (Laws of
1915, p. 375,) went beyond mere regulation and prohibited
the sale of secondhand quilts or comfortables even when
sterilized or when remade from sterilized secondhand materials. In People v. Weiner, 271 Ill. 74, the state Supreme Court held that to prohibit the use of material not
inherently dangerous and that might be rendered safe by
reasonable regulation transgresses the constitutional protection of personal and property rights.
The appellant insists that this case is ruled by Powell
v. Pennsylvania, 127 U. S. 678. But the cases are essentially different. A law of Pennsylvania prohibited the
manufacture, sale, or possession for sale, of oleomargarine.*
An indictment against Powell charged a sale and possession with intent to sell. At the trial he admitted the
allegations and, for his defense, offered to prove certain
facts which were excluded as immaterial. The question
for decision was whether these facts were sufficient to
show that, as applied, the law was invalid. Mr. Justice
Harlan, speaking for the Court, said (p. 682) that the purpose of these offers of proof was to " show that the article
sold was a new invention, not an adulteration of dairy
products, nor injurious to the public health, but wholesome and nutritious as an article of food . . . [p.
684.] It will be observed that the offer in the court below
was to show by proof that the particular articles the defendant sold, and those in his possession for sale, in violation of the statute, were, in fact, wholesome or nutritious
articles of food. It is entirely consistent with that offer
that many, indeed, that most kinds of oleomargarine
butter in the market contain ingredients that are or may
become injurious -to health. The court cannot say, from
anything of which it may- take judicial cognizance, that

.14A

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

such is not the fact. Under the circumstances disclosed
in the record, and in obedience to settled rules of constitutional construction, it must be assumed that such is the
fact." And see Powell v. Commonwealth, 114 Pa. St.
265, 279, 295.
"Laws frequently are enforced which the court recognizes as possibly or probably invalid if attacked by a different interest or in a different way." Quong Wing v.
Kirkendall, supra, 64. This is well illustrated by the
Powell Case compared with Schollenberger v. Pennsylvania, 171 U. S. 1. Every opinion is to be read having
regard to the facts of the case and the question actually
decided. Cohen. v. Virginia, 6 Wheat, 264, 399. The
facts clearly distinguish this case from the Powell Case.
There, it was assumed that most kinds of oleomargarine
in the market were or might become injurious to health.
Here, it is established that sterilization eliminates the
dangers, if any, from the use of shoddy. As against that
fact, the provision in question cannot be sustained as a
measure to protect health. And the fact that the Act permits the use of numerous materials, prescribing sterilization if they are secondhand, also serves to show that the
prohibition of the use of shoddy, new or old, even when
sterilized, is unreasonable and arbitrary.
Nor can such prohibition be sustained as a measure to
prevent deception. In order to ascertain whether the
materials used and the finished articles conform to its requirements, the Act expressly provides for inspection of
the places where such articles are made, sold or kept for
sale. Every article of bedding is required to bear a tag
showing the materials used for filling and giving the
names and addresses of makers and vendors, and bearing
the word "secondhand" where there has been prior use,
and giving the number of the permit for sterilizing and
disinfecting where secondhand materials or feathers are
used for filling. Obviously, these regulations or others

WEAVER v. PALMER BROS. CO.
402

HOLMES, BRANDEIS,

415

and STONE, JJ., dissenting.

that are adequate may be effectively applied to shoddyfilled articles.
The constitutional guaranties may not be made to
yield to mere convenience. Schlesinger v. Wisconsin,
ante, p. 230. The business here involved is legitimate and
useful; and, while it is subject to all reasonable regulation,.
the absolute prohibition of the use of shoddy in the manufacture of comfortables is purely arbitrary and violates the
due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. Adams
v. Tanner, 244 U. S. 590, 596; Meyer v. Nebraska, 262
U. S. 390; Burns Baking Co. v. Bryan, 264 U. S. 504.
Decree affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES, dissenting.
If the Legislature of Pennsylvania was of opinion that
disease is likely to be spread by the use of unsterilized
shoddy in comfortables I do not suppose that this Court
would pronounce the opinion so manifestly absurd that
it could not be acted upon. If we should not, then I
think that we ought to assume the opinion to be right for
the purpose of testing the law. The Legislature may have
been of opinion further that the actual practice of filling
comfortables with unsterilized shoddy gathered from
filthy floors was wide spread; and this again we must
assume to be true. It is admitted to be impossible to
distinguish the innocent from the infected product in any
practicable way, when it is made up into the comfortables.
On these premises, if the Legislature regarded the danger
as very great and inspection and tagging as inadequate
remedies, it seems to me that in order to prevent the
spread of disease it constitutionally could forbid any use
of shoddy for bedding and upholstery. Notwithstanding
the broad statement in Schlesinger v. Wisconsin the other
day, I do not suppose that it was intended to overrule
Purity Extract & Tonic Co. v. Lynch, 226 U. S. 192, and
the other cases to which I referred there.

416

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Syllabus.

270 U. S.

It is said that there was unjustifiable discrimination.
A classification is not to be pronounced arbitrary because
it goes on practical grounds and attacks only those objects
that exhibit or foster an evil on a large scale. It is not
required to be mathematically precise and to embrace
every case that theoretically is capable of doing the same
harm. "If the law presumably hits the evil where it is
most felt, it is not to be overthrown because there are
other instances to which it might have been applied."
Miller v. Wilson, 236 U. S. 373, 384. In this case, as in
Schlesinger v. Wisconsin, I think that we are pressing the
Fourteenth Amendment too far.
MR.JUSTICE

BRANDEIS

and MR.JUSTICE STONE concur

in this opinion.
CHESAPEAKE & OHIO RAILWAY COMPANY v.
THOMPSON MANUFACTURING COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF APPEALS OF THE
STATE OF WEST VIRGINIA.

No. 178. Argued January 27, 1926.-Decided March 8, 1926.
1. The statement that the basis of a carrier's liability for goods
lost or damaged in transit is "presumed negligence" is in effect
only a statement of substantive law that the carrier isliable
unless the loss or damage was due to the act of God or the public
enemy, or the nature of the goods. P. 421.
2. The second proviso of the "Cummins Amendment" relieves shippers from filing notice of claim, etc., where damage to goodg in
transit is due to the carrier's ".carelessness or negligence," only
when the damage is due to the carrier's negligence in fact.
P. 422.
3. The burden of proof is on the shipper to establish negligence
within the meaning of the proviso. P. 422.
4 Evidence that goods were shipped in good condition and delivered
in bad condition, makes a prima facie case. P. 422.
5. But where, to rebut such prima facie showing, the carrier introduced evidence of the condition of the cars in which the goods

