154

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Syllabus.

270 U. S.

initiated begins from the date of the denial of either the
motion or petition. Brockett v. Brockett, 2 How. 238,
241; Railroad Company v. Bradleys, 7 Wall. 575, 578;
Memphis v. Brown, 94 U. S. 715, 718; Texas & Pacific
Railway v. Murphy, 111 U. S. 488, 489; Aspen Mining
and Smelting Co. v. Billings, 150 U. S. 31, 36; Kingman
v. Western Manufacturing Co. 170 U. S. 675, 678; United
States v. Ellicott, 223 U. S. 524, 539; Andrews v. Virginian Railway, 248 U. S. 272; Chicago, Great Western
Railway v. Basham, 249 U. S. 164, 167. The suspension
of the running of the period limited for the allowance of
an appeal, after a judgment has been entered, depends
upon the due and seasonable filing of the motion for a
new trial or the petition for rehearing. In this case after
the first motion for a new trial had been overruled, on
May 4, 1924, no motion for a new trial could be duly and
seasonably filed under Rule 90 of the Court of Claims,
except upon leave of the Court of Claims. This leave,
though applied for twice, was not granted. Applications
for leave did not suspend the running of the ninety days
after the denial of the motion for a new trial within which
the application for appeal must hav been made. For
that reason, the motion of the Government to dismiss the
appeal as not in time, and so for lack of jurisdiction, must
be granted.
Appeal dismissed.
ROGERS v. UNITED STATES
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS

No. 153. Argued January 20, 21, 1926.-Decided March 1, 1926.
1. The Army Reorganization Act of June 4, 1920, should be liberally
construed to avoid unnecessary technical limitation upon the military agencies which are to carry it into effect. French v. Weeks,
259 U. S. 326. P. 160.
2. The requirement of the Act that an officer before a court of inquiry shall be furnished with a full copy of the official records upon

ROGERS v. UNITED STATES.
154

Opinion of the Court.

which his proposed classification as an officer who should not be
retained in the service is based, was sufficiently complied with to
avoid invalidating the proceedings where the officer was furnished,
for his own keeping and use, a copy of everything adverse to him in
his record, and was given full opportunity in the court of inquiry
to consult his entire record. P. 160.
3. A court of inquiry, under this statute, reported in favor of an
officer, but the final classification board, having before it the record
from the court of inquiry, decided otherwise, finally classifying him
as one who should not be retained in the service. Held that the
fact that the court of inquiry discouraged the officer from adducing
cumulative testimony in disproof of charges which that court declined to consider because they had never been presented to him,
did not invalidate the final classification, since it was not to be presumed that the final board would consider those charges under the
circumstances, and since the officer's counsel, if he deemed the
evidence material and important, would have insisted on its production before the court of inquiry. Pp. 161, 162.
4. On an appeal from a judgment of the Court of Claims upholding
proceedings of military tribunals leading to claimant's retirement
from the Army, as to whicn it is objected that the record sent from
the court of inquiry to the final classification board was defective,
this Court derives its knowledge of the contents of such record
from the findings of the Court of Claims. P. 162..
59 Ct. Cls. 464, affirmed.

APPEAL from a judgment of the Court of Claims rejecting a claim for additional pay, made by a retired army
officer upon the ground that the order for his retirement
was illegal and void.
Mr. Nathan William MacChesney, for appellant.
Mr. Blackburn Esterline, Assistant to the Solicitor General, with whom Solicitor General Mitchell was on the
brief, for the United States.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE TAFT delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Wilbur Rogers was a Major of Field Artillery in the
Regular Army of the United States until January 26,

156

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

1921, when by an order of that date, issued by the Secretary of War, he was placed on the retired list, under section 24b of the Act of June 4, 1920. On the ground that
the order was illegal and void, he brought this action in
the Court of Claims to recover the difference between the
pay and allowances of a Major of Field Artillery on the
active list, from January 26, 1921 to January 26, 1922, and
the retired pay for the same period which he actually received, this difference amounting to about $4,300. A general traverse was entered and the issues were heard and
findings of fact made by the court.
The Act of June 4, 1920, 41 Sta. 759, 773, c. 227, commonly called the Reorganization Act, provides:
"Sec. 24b. Classification of Officers.-Immediately upon
the passage of this Act, and in September of 1921 and
every year thereafter, the President shall convene a board
of not less than five general officers, which shall arrange
all officers in two classes, namely: Class A, consisting of
officers who should be retained in the service, and Class
B, of officers who should not be retained in the service.
Until otherwise finally classified, all officers shall be regarded as belonging to Class A, and shall be promoted
according to the provisions of this act to fill any Vacancies
which may occur prior to such final classification. No
officer shall be finally classified in class B until he shall
have been given an opportunity to appear before a court
of inquiry. In such court of inquiry he shall be furnished
with a full copy of the official records upon which the proposed classification is based and shall be given an opportunity to present testimony in his own behalf. The record
of such court of inquiry shall be forwarded to the final
classification board for reconsideration of the case, and
after such consideration the finding of said classification
board shall be final and not subject to further revision
except upon the order of the President. Whenever an
officer is plaeed in Class B, a board of not less than three

ROGERS v. UNITED STATES.
154

Opinion of the Court.

officers shall be convened to determine whether such
classification is due to his neglect, misconduct or avoidable
habits. If the finding is affirmative, he shall be discharged
from the Army; if negative, he shall be placed on the unlimited retired list with pay," etc.
The Court of Claims found that the law had been complied with and dismissed the petition.
The grounds relied on by the petitioner for the appeal,
as stated in his brief, are,

First, that plaintiff was prevented by military law from
going forward before the court of inquiry with testimony
which he desired to give, which was necessary to meet the
adverse charges in his record which were before the court
of inquiry and the prina facie case made out against him
by the provisional classification board.

Second, that the record of the court of inquiry was not
a complete record as required by law, in that there is no
mention of the peremptory closing of the court, and nothing to show that the new evidence which Major Rogers
desired to give was excluded.
Third, that the court of inquiry made an error of law
when it assumed that it could arbitrarily exclude the testimony of Major Rogers and other witnesses, once it had
determined to recommend that Major Rogers be retained
on the active list, inasmuch as its decision was not final,
as shown by the case and provided by the statute.
Fourth, that the Court of Claims made an error of law
when it made a finding of fact that Major Rogers was excused as a witness and did not complete the testimony
which he desired to give, although he was not prevented
from doing so by the court.
After the preliminary board of classification had classified the plaintiff in class B, he applied for opportunity to
appear before a court of inquiry, which was duly appointed and convened at Chicago, November 20, 1920.
He was assisted by counsel, Lieutenant Colonel Horace F.

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

Sykes of the Infantry. The plaintiff was furnished with
copies from the official records of his service, which copies
contained only the unfavorable portions of his record
upon which the action of the board was based. The plaintiff thereupon applied to the War Department for the
complete record of his service, but his request was not
granted. He was however permitted to read the complete
record of his service prior to the meeting of the court of
inquiry and during its proceedings. It was a complete
record of plaintiff's services as an officer of the Army from
the date of his first commission therein to the date of the
convening of said court of inquir3.
The plaintiff called to the attention of the court of inquiry certain charges preferred against him by Colonel
Harry C. Williams, of the Field Artillery, as shown in
the record. The court heard the plaintiff upon these
charges, but discouraged any further evidence relative
thereto, upon the grounds stated by the president of said
court in his evidence before the Court of Claims that the
court had received instructions to disregard any charges
against any officer who had not been brought to trial on
any charges, or to whom the charges had not been read.
The plaintiff had testified that he had never been ac:quainted with these charges until he was notified that he
had been put in class B.
While the plaintiff was on the witness stand testifying
in reference to adverse reports in his record, the court
through its president stated "That will be all," whereupon
he was excused as a witness and did not complete the
testimony which he desired to give, although, as the Court
of Claims finds, he was not prevented from doing so by
the court.
During the course of the hearing before the court of inquiry the presiding officer addressed plaintiff's counsel as
follows:
"It is the suggestion of the court, merely a suggestion,
you understand, that counsel rest his case."

ROGERS v. UNITED STATES.
154

Opinion of the Court.

Counsel for the plaintiff thereupon stated to the court
that he had more evidence that he desired to submit,
whereupon the presiding officer stated:
" I wish to repeat that it is the suggestion of the court
that counsel rest his case."
Thereupon the counsel for the plaintiff again stated to
the court that he had other evidence, and that there were
six witnesses in the building whom he desired to call, and
a seventh witness who was in the city and wvaiting to be
called by telephone. The presiding officer thereupon
stated emphatically, striking his hand forcibly on his
desk:
" I wish to reiterate that it is the suggestion of the court
that counsel rest his case."
The plaintiff thereupon closed his case. At the time,
plaintiff had, in the same building wherein the court was
sitting, six witnesses, and a seventh witness, an army
officer, waiting to be notified by telephone to appear.
These witnesses would have testified as to the charges
which the court had decided to ignore, but were not called
by the plaintiff. The Court of Claims finds that the
plaintiff made no protest to the court because they were
not called.
A copy of the official records was incorporated in the
record of the court of inquiry. The court ruled as a
matter of law that a favorable efficiency report could be
discussed but should not be incorporated in the record of
the court, because these reports were on file in the War
Department and would be considered, as they were, by
the final board of classification.
At the conclusion of the hearing the court of inquiry
made the following determination:
"The court is of the opinion that Major Wilbur Rogers
should not be continued in class B."
It appears that the plaintiff, by mail, having received
the record of the court of inquiry, complained to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

recorder of the court that the record contained errors, but
that the recorder refused to rectify them.
The final classification board, after considering the
record received from the court of inquiry as additional
evidence, finally classified the plaintiff in class B.
It does not appear to us that there is anything in the
findings of the Court of Claims to show that the proceedings by which the plaintiff was classified in class B were
rendered invalid. This Court has had occasion to consider the Reorganization Act under which this retirement
was ordered. In the case of French v. Weeks, 259 U. S.
326, 327, 328, we said:
"The Army Reorganization Act is intended to provide
for a reduction of the Army of the United States to a
peace basis while maintaining a standard of high efficiency.
To contribute to this purpose, Congress made elaborate
provision in the act for retaining in the service officers who
had proved their capacity and fitness for command, and
for retiring or discharging those who, for any reason, were
found to be unfit. Every step of this process is committed
to military tribunals, made up of officers, who by experience and training, should be the best qualified men in
the country for such a duty, but with their action all
subject, as we shall see, to the supervisory control of the
President of the United States.
"Not being in any sense a penal statute, the act should
be liberally construed to promote its purpose, and it is
of first importance that that purpose shall not be frustrated by unnecessarily placing technical limitations upon
the agencies which are to carry it into effect."
It is conceded on behalf of the plaintiff that the procedure required by the statute was followed in the organization of the boards and the court of inquiry. It was
objected in the court below and in the assignments of
error here that the plaintiff was not furnished with a
copy of the official records in the court of inquiry upon

ROGERS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

154

which the proposed classification was based. As a matter of fact, he was furnished with a written copy for his
own keeping and use of everything that was adverse to
him in his record, and he was given in the court of inquiry a full opportunity to consult a copy of his entire
record. We do not think that the difference between what
was required by the statute and what was actually afforded him in the matter was of sufficient substance to
invalidate the proceedings.
The chief complaint of plaintiff, when the briefs in his
behalf are analyzed, is that he was prevented by the court
from introducing additional evidence of cumulative character to disprove charges which the court of inquiry, upon
the statement in the plaintiff's own evidence that he had
never been presented with the charges and never been
called upon to answer them, completely ignored. The
court did so, as explained by the president of the court of
inquiry, in accordance with instructions received by the
court to disregard any charges against any officer who had
not been brought to trial on them or to whom they had
not been read. The recommendation of the court of inquiry was that the plaintiff be retained in class A. This
was doubtless the reason why the court of inquiry did not
think it necessary to call additional witnesses, especially
in reference to a subject matter that could not affect the
standing of the officer. In the absence of any other circumstances, and in the face of the presumption of regularity that must obtain in proceedings of this sort, we can
not assume that the final board of classification considered
as a basis for putting the plaintiff in class B, charges
which had never been presented to him, charges which he
denied, and charges which the court of inquiry ignored.
It is claimed that the plaintiff was injured by the failure
of the recorder of the court to include in the record of the
court of inquiry the colloquy between the plaintiff and his
100 (9*-6

1

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

counsel, on the one hand, and the court of inquiry on the
other, with reference to discontinuing the hearings. We
do not think that, if the colloquy had been put in the
record, it would have made any substantial difference in
its effect. We have no means of knowing exactly what
the record of the court of inquiry as forwarded to the
board of final classification contained except from the
findings of the Court of Claims, which shows that it contained all that the plaintiff put in in the way of records
and documents and his evidence. In view of this we can
not assume that the complaint by the plaintiff that the
record was defective was well founded.
The Court of Claims found that the plaintiff was not
prevented from putting in the additional evidence on the
charges which were subsequently ignored. It is argued
to us that the attitude of the court was in effect and as a
matter of military law a military order preventing the
submission of further evidence and making it a military
offence for the plaintiff to have insisted on introducing his
witnesses. Were the matter important, we should have
difficulty in yielding to such a view. The Court of Claims
finds in effect that the action of plaintiff in not producing further evidence was voluntary acquiescence by him
in the suggestion of the court. He had counsel who
presumably knew his rights under the statute, and if such
evidence was deemed material and important, we must
assume that the counsel would have asserted his right
and insisted on the production of the evidence.
Much of the briefs of counsel for the plaintiff in error is
made up of statements based on, and quotations from,
the evidence before the Court of Claims. We can not
consider this. We are limited to the findings of the Court
of Claims. United States v. Smith, 94 U. S. 214; Stone
v. United States, 164 U. S. 380; Crocker v. United States,
240 U. S. 74, 78; Brothers v. United States, 250 U. S.
88, 93.

GIRARD TRUST CO. v. UNITED STATES.
154

163

Syllabus.

There is nothing in the record before us which would
justify us in holding the proceedings invalid. The judgment is
Affirmed.

GIRARD TRUST COMPANY, GEORGE STEVENSON, WILLIAM R. VERNER ET AL. v. UNITED
STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 137.

Argued January 14, 15, 1926.-Decided March 1, 1926.

1. Where interest on tax refunds is allowed by statute, a suit for
the interest after refund of a tax is maintainable in the Court of
Claims. Stewart v. Barnes, 153 U. S. 456, distinguished. P. 168.
2. Under ยง 1324 (a) of the Revenue Act of November 23, 1921,
which provides that, upon the allowance of a claim for the refund
of internal revenue taxes-paid, interest shall be allowed and paidupon the total amount of such refund "to the date of such allowance," the date to which the interest runs is neither the date of
actual repayment nor the date. on which the Commissioner of
Internal Revenue first decides that there has been an overassessment and refers the matter to the Collector for examination and
report of the amounts to be refunded, but the date on which the
Commissioner approves the amount thus ascertained, for payment.
P. 169..
3. The above section dates the interest (a) from the time when the
tax was paid, if -it was paid " inder a specific protest setting forth
in detail the basis of and reasons for such protest," but (b) from
six months after the date of filing claim for refund, if there was no
protest or payment pursuant to additional assessment. Held, that,
in order to date the interest from time of payment of tax, the
protest under which it was paid must set forth a specific and
valid reason for a refund. P. 171.
4. Where a tax payment was less than the amount illegally assessed,
due to deduction of the discount allowed on anticipatory payments by ยง 1009 of the Revenue Act of October 3, 1917, the
amount refundable, with interest, was the amount actually paid,
not including the discount. P. 173,
59 Ct. Cls. 727, reversed,

