MILLERS' UNDERWRITERS v. BRAUD.
49

59

Syllabus.

benefit of the future State. Without doubt the Indians
were to have access to the navigable waters and to be
entitled to use them in accustomed ways; but these were
common rights vouchsafed to all, whether white or Indian,
by the early legislation reviewed in Railroad Company v.
Schurmeir, 7 Wall. 272, 287-289, and Economy Light &
Power Co. v. United States, supra, pp. 118-120, and emphasized in the Enabling Act under which Minnesota was
admitted as a State, c. 60, 11 Stat. 166, which declared
that the rivers and waters bounding the State "and the
navigable waters leading into the same shall be common
highways, and forever free, as well to the inhabitants of
said State as to all other citizens of the United States."
We conclude that the State on its admission into the
Union became the owner of the bed of the lake. It is conceded that, if the bed thus passed to the State, the defendants have succeeded to the State's right therein; and the
decisions and statutes of the State brought to our attention show that the concession is rightly made.
Decree affirmed.
MILLERS' INDEMNITY UNDERWRITERS v. NELLIE BOUDREAUX BRAUD AND ED. J. BRAUD.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF TEXAS.

No. 124.

Argued January 13, 1926.-Decided February 1, 1926.

Plaintiff's intestate, while employed as a diver by a ship-building
company, submerged himself from a floating barge anchored in a
navigable river in Texas thirty-five feet from the bank, for the
purpose of sawing off timbers of an abandoned set of ways, once
used for launching ships, which had become an obstruction to navigation. While thus submerged he died of suffocation due to failure
of the air supply. Damages for the death were recovered from
the employer's insurer under the workmen's compensation law of
Texas. Held,

60

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for Plaintiff in.Error.

270 U. S.

1. That the facts disclosed a maritime tort to which the general
admiralty jurisdiction would extend save for the state compensation law; but the matter was of mere local concern and its regulation by the State would work no material prejudice to any characteristic feature of the general maritime law. P. 64.
2. The state compensation law prescribed the only remedy, and its
exclusive features abrogated the right to resort to the admiralty
court which otherwise would exist. Id.
Affii~ned.

ERROR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Texas
affirming a judgment of the Court of Civil Appeals, which
affirmed a recovery in a suit under the workmen's compensation law of Texas. See 245 S.W. Rep. 1025; 261
Id. 127.
Mr. J. B. Morris, with whom Messrs. G. Bowdoin
Craighill, Hannis Taylor, Jr., and J. Austin Barnes were
on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
The Supreme Court of Texas bases its decision upon an
erroneous construction of Grant-Smith PorterShip Co. v.
Rohde, 257 U. S. 469. While conceding that the cause
if considered as a tort action, partakes of an admiralty
nature, the court concludes from the above opinion that
it may assume jurisdiction of an admiralty cause of action and apply to it local statutes as long as such statutes
do not work material prejudice to the general characterjstics of the maritime law. But see Washington v. Dawson & Co., 264 U. S. 219, and Gonsalves v. Morse Dry
Dock Co., 266 U. S. 171. The Supreme Court of the
United States had never held that a state court may
assume jurisdiction over causes of an admiralty. nature
and apply to such causes a state compensation law.
What it has held is that a court of admiralty, under certain circumstances, may apply to an admiralty cause of
action local regulations.
If this case could be disposed of upon the theory that
the cause of action grows out of the contract of employ-

MILLERS' UNDERWRITERS v. BRAUD.
59

61

Argument for Defendant in Error.

ment, there would be no basis for Southern Pacific Co. v.
Jensen, 244 U. S. 205. The primary cause, which is, after
all, the basis of the cause of action, is the death occasioned
by a tort committed upon navigable water while the deceased was engaged in work of a maritime nature. The
reason the compensation law cannot apply to a cause of
an admiralty nature is that the admiralty law is an exclusive branch of federal jurisprudence which covers
maritime torts. The compensation law cannot substitute
its measure of damages, if you can call it such, for the
right of maintenance and cure given by the rules of admiralty. No matter whether you consider the cause of
action as predicated upon the contract of employment
or upon tort, if the tort occurred upon navigable waters
the locality of the tort fixes the jurisdiction.
The courts of Texas have held the Texas compensation law invalid as applied to causes of an admiralty nature. Home Life & Accident Co. v. Wade, 236 S. W. 778.
This cause of action is a maritime tort. Atlantic Transport
v. Imbrovek, 234 U. S. 52; DeGaetno v. Merrett & Chapman Co., 196 N. Y. Sup. 195; Ellis v. United States, 206
U. S. 246; In re EasternDredging Co., 138 Fed. 942; The
Sunbeam, 195 Fed. 468.
Mr. M. G. Adams, with whom Messrs. C. TV. Howth
and D. E. O'Fiel were on the brief, for defendants in error.
Under the provisions of the Texas Compensation Law,
which determined the rights of the parties to this cause,
the element of tort or locality is wholly eliminated and
constitutes no part of the cause of action, which rests
entirely in contract among employer, employee and insurer. The employer and the insurer enter into a contract for the protection of the employer and the employees, having reference to the provisions of the statute
which are read into and become a part of the contract of
insurance. Grant-PorterShip Co. v. Rohde, 257 U. S.

62

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

469. This remedy is exclusive of all other remedies, and
the tort element, together with full indemnity for negligence, is completely eliminated and expressly excluded.
The test to be applied in this case to determine jurisdiction, is the contract and its nature. The fact that Boudreaux was working in navigable water does not determine
exclusive jurisdiction in admiralty, for the simple reason
that this cause of action does not in any manner sound in
tort but is based wholly on the contract.
If the Texas Compensation Law were eliminated and
the cause of action regarded as being founded on tort,
this would not bring this cause v ithin the exclusive admiralty jurisdiction but would merely have the effect of
bringing it within that large class of causes of concurrent
jurisdiction of the admiralty and common law courts.
Cognizance by the state court can not possibly touch or
work material prejudice to the general maritime law; it
can not interfere with the proper harmony and uniformity
of that law in its international and interstate relations;
and, therefore, it cannot impinge upon the admiralty
jurisdiction of the federal courts; and the full purpose of
the constitutional grant to the federal courts and the
limitation upon the state courts as to admiralty and maritime causes would not be in anywise impaired. Western
Fuel Co. v. Garcia,259 U. S. 233; Southern Pacific Co. v.
Jensen, 244 U. S. 205; Peters v. Veasey, 251 U. S. 121.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The court below affirmed a judgment of the Orange
County District Court in favor of defendant in error for
compensation under the Workmen's Compensation Law
of Texas (Gen. Laws 1917, p. 269) on account of the death
of her brother, 0. 0. Boudreaux. April 17, 1920, while
employed as a diver by the National Ship Building Company, he submerged himself from a floating barge anchored

MILLERS' UNDERWRITERS v. BRAUD.
59

63

Opinion of the Court.

in the navigable Sabine River thirty-five feet from the
bank, for the purpose of sawing off the timbers of an
abandoned set of ways, once used for launching ships,
which had become an obstruction to navigation. While
thus submerged the air supply failed and he died of suffocation.
The employing company carried a policy of insurance
with plaintiff in error conditioned to pay the compensation
prescribed by the statute and accordingly was " regarded
as a subscriber" to the Texas Employers' Insurance Association therein provided for. Part I, § 3, of the statutes
declares"The employes of a subscriber shall have no right of
action against their employer for damages for personal
injuries, and the representatives and beneficiaries of deceased employes shall have no right of action against such
subscribing emplpyer for damages for injuries resulting in
death, but such employes and their representatives and
beneficiaries shall look for compensation solely to the association, as the same is hereinafter provided for
It also prescribes a schedule of weekly payments for
injured employes or their beneficiaries, and provides for
a Board to pass upon claims and an ultimate right to
proceed in court. Subscribers' employes do not contribute
to the necessary costs of such protection. They are presumed to accept the plan and to waive all right to recover
damages for injuries at common law or under any statute
unless they give definite written notice to the contrary.
No such notice was given by the deceased.
Plaintiff in error insists that the claim arose out of a
maritime tort; that the rights and obligations of the parties
.were fixed by the maritime law; and that the State had no
power to change these by statute or otherwise.
This subject was much considered in Grant SmithPorter Co. v. Rohde, 257 U. S. 469, 477-here on certificate-which arose out of injuries suffered by a carpenter

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

while at work upon an uncompleted vessel lying in navigable watrs within the State of Oregon. The words of
the local statute applied to the employment and prescribed an exclusive remedy. We said the cause was controlled by the principle that, as to certain local matters
regulation of which would work no material prejudice to
the general maritime law, the rules of the latter may be
modified or supplemented by state statutes. And we held
that under the circumstances disclosed "regulation of the
rights, obligations and consequent liabilities of the parties,
as between themselves, by a local rule would not necessarily work material prejudice to any characteristic feature
of the general maritime law, or interfere with the proper
harmony or uniformity of that law in its international or
interstate relations." Stressing the point that the parties
were clearly and consciously within the terms of the statute
and did not in fact suppose they were contracting with
reference to the general system of maritime law, we alluded
to the circumstance, not otherwise of special importance,
that each of them had contributed to the industrial accident fund.
And answering the certified questions we affirmed that
"the general admiralty jurisdiction extends to a proceeding to recover damages resulting from a tort committed
on a vessel in process of construction when lying on navigable waters within a State." Also, that "in the circumstances stated the exclusive features of the Oregon Workmen's Compensation Act would apply and abrogate the
right to recover damages in an admiralty court which
otherwise would e:ist."
In the cause now under consideration the record discloses
facts sufficient to show a maritime tort to which the general admiralty jurisdiction would extend save for the
provisions of the state Compehsation Act; but the matter
is of mere local concern and its regulation by the State
will work no material prejudice to any characteristic

INTEROCEAN OIL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
59

65

Counsel for Parties.

feature of the general maritime law. The Act prescribes
the only remedy; its exclusive features abrogate the right
to resort to the admiralty court which otherwise would
exist.
We had occasion to consider matters which were not of
mere local concern because of their special relation to
commerce and navigation, and held them beyond the regulatory power of the State, in Great Lakes Dredge & Dock
Co. v. Kierejewski, 261 U. S. 479; Washington v. Dawson
& Co., 264 U. S. 219; Gonsalves v. Morse Dry Dock Co.,
266 U. S. 171; and Robins Dry Dock Co. v. Dahl, 266
U. S. 449, 457.
The conclusion reached by the court below is correct
and its judgment must be
Affirmed.
THE INTEROCEAN OIL COMPANY v. UNITED
STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 115.

Argued January 12, 1926.-Decided March 1, 1926.

Where a company, which supplied oil to the Government during the
war, moved its storage tanks from the place where they were
established to a distant locality, at the demand of an army officer,
relying on his prom'se that all expenses and losses to be thereby
sustained would be paid by the Government and believing that he
was acting within the scope of his authority, but knowing his action
was subject to written confirmation by a superior, which was never
given, held, that there was no express contract of the Government
to pay the expenses, and damages to the company's business, resulting from the removal; and that no contract could be implied.
59 Ct. Cls. 980, affirmed.
APPEAL

from a judgment of the Court of Claims dis-

missing the petition on demurrer.
Mr. CharlesE. Kern, with whom Mr. John PaulEarnest
was on the brief, for appellant.
100569°-26--5

