OREG.-WASHINGTON CO. v. WASHINGTON.

87

Argument for the State.

OREGON-WASHINGTON RAILROAD & NAVIGATION COMPANY v. STATE OF WASHINGTON.
ERROR

TO THE

SUPREME

COURT OF THE STATE

OF

WASHINGTON.

No. 187.

Argued January 28, 1926.-Decided March 1, 1926.

1. The power of the States to quarantine against importation of farm
produce likely to convey injurious insects from infested localities,
was suspended, in so far as concerns interstate commcrce, by the
Act of August 20, 1912, as amended March 4, 1917, investing the
Secretary of Agriculture with full authority over the subject.
P. 96.
2. This Act of Congress can not be construed as leaving the States
at liberty to establish such quarantines in the absence of action by
tne Secretary of Agriculture. P. 102.
3. A quarantine proclaimed by the State of Washington under Ls.
1921, c. 105, against importation of alfalfa hay and alfalfa meal,
except in sealed containers, coming from designated regions in other
States found to harbor the alfalfa weevil, is therefore inoperative.
Pp. 93, 102.
128 Wash. 365, reversed.

ERROR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Washington affirming a decree, in a suit instituted by the State,
permanently enjoining the Railroad Company from transporting through the State consignments of alfalfa hay and
meal from other designated States or parts thereof, in
disregard of a quarantine.
Mr. Arthur C. Spencer, with whom Messrs. Henry TV.
Clark and F. T. Merritt were on the brief, for plaintiff in

error.
Mr. R. G. Sharpe, with whom Mr. John H. Dunbar was
on the brief, for defendant in error.

The reasonableness of a quarantine regulation miust in
all cases be determined by the exigencies of the particular
problem confronting the commonwealth, and the quarantine order here involved is no more drastic than the evi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for the State.

270 U. S.

dence shows the situation demanded. Railroad Company
v. Husen, 95 U. S. 465, distinguished. See Rasmussen v.
Idaho, 181 U. S. 198; State v. Rasmussen, 7 Idaho 1;
Smith v. Railroad Co., 181 U. S. 248; Compagnie Franaise De Navigation.a Vapeur v. Board of Health, 186
U. S. 380; Schollenberger v. Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, 171 U. S. 1.
The federal act does not conflict with the state law and,
in any event, the former merely delegates to the Secretary
of Agriculture the right to quarantine any district which
he finds, after a public hearing, to be infected by a dangerous plant disease or insect infestation, and until the
Secretary of Agriculture has actually caused such a public
hearing to be had and has fixed, or refused to fix, quarantine lines as contemplated by ยง 8 of the Act, it cannot be
said that Congress has occupied the field covered by the
state quarantine law.
Clearly the fact that Congress has merely delegated to
an executive officer the power which it itself has to enact
police regulations affecting the welfare of the several
States does not mean that it has deprived the several
States of the right to protect their own agricultural industries by proper police regulations of their own, at least
until the delegated power has been actively exercised by
the executive officer. Missouri Pacific Ry. Co. v. Larabee
Flour Mills Co., 211 U. S. 612; Railway Co. v. Harris,
234 U. S. 412; Atlantic Coast Line R. R. v. Commonwealth, etc., 136 Va. 134.
It is argued by the Railroad that the Act of Congress
.makes it obligatory upon the Secretary of Agriculture to
establish a quarantine "when he shall determine that such
a quarantine is necessary." But he is merely authorized
and not required to have a public or other hearing for the
purpose of determining whether a particular district
should or should not be quarantined. Even were the duty
expressly imposed upon the Secretary to cause such

OREG.-WASHINGTON CO. v. WASHINGTON.
87

89

Argument for the State.

hearings to be had and adopt the necessary quarantine
measures, there could be no other or greater duty imposed upon this officer to. ascertain the facts and adopt
the proper regulations than was already imposed upon
Congress itself before the law was enacted. We respectfully insist that no more imperative duty to pass needed
legislation can be delegated to any officer, board or tribunal than already exists in the delegating legislative
body itself, and failure on the part of Congress to act has
never been held to imply a congressional finding that
legislation of the several States was unnecessary. The
Secretary would not be required to fix quarantine lines if
he deemed the state regulations sufficiently effective.
But the federal law does not, and was not intended to,
cover the entire field of quarantining districts infested
with injurious plant diseases and insect pests. It authorizes the Secretary of Agriculture to establish quarantine
when he finds that any particular plant disease or insect
infestation is "new to or not theretofore widely prevalent
or distributed within and throughout the United States."
It might well be urged that in the present case, for instance, the alfalfa weevil was widely prevalent in the
United States, since it exists in Utah, Colorado, Idaho,
Oregon and Nevada, and for that reason the Secretary of
Agriculture would be powerless to establish the quarantine provided for by the Act; and were the federal Act
adjudged to be exclusive, the State of Washington, which
is now free from the pest, would be powerless to prevent
infestation of its 300,000 acres of alfalfa land by appropriate quarantine measures. Under the federal law it is
apparent that, if all States save one were infected, the one
free from infection would be powerless to protect itself.
This could not have been the purpose of Congress in enacting this legislation. Savage v. Jones, 225 U. S. 501;
Carey v. South Dakota, 250 U. S. 118; Reid v. Colorado,
187 U. S. 137; Asbell v. Kansas, 209 U. S. 251; State v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

R. Co., 200 Mo. App. 109; MissouriPacific Ry. v. Larabee
Mills, 211 U. S. 612.
MR.

CHIEF JUSTICE

TAFT

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This was a bill of complaint filbd by the State of Washington in the Superior Court of Thurston County of that
State against the defendant, the Oregon-Washington
Railway & Navigation Company, an interstate common
carrier in the States of Idaho, Oregon and Washington.
The bill averred that there existed in the areas of the
States of Utah, Idaho, Wyoming, Oregon and Nevada, an
injurious insect popularly called the alfalfa weevil, and
scientifically known as the Phytonomus posticus, which
fed upon the leaves and foliage of the alfalfa plant, to the
great damage of the crop; that the insect multiplied
rapidly and was propagated by means of eggs deposited
by the female insect upon the leaves and stalks of the
plant; that when the hay-was cured, the eggs clung to
and remained dormant upon the hay and even in the meal
made from it; that the eggs and live weevils were likely
to be carried to points wherehay was transported, infecting the growing crop there; that when the hay was carried
in common box cars the eggs and live weevils were likely
to be shaken out and distributed along the route and communicated to the agricultural lands adjacent to the route;
that a proper inspection to ascertain the presence of the
eggs or weevils would require the tearing open of every
bale of hay and sack of meal, involving a prohibitive cost
of inspection, and that the only practical method of preventing the spread into uninfested districts was to prohibit the transportation of hay or meal from the district
in which the weevil existed; that the pest is new to, and
not generally distributed within, the State of Washington;
that there is no known methed of ridding an infested district of the pest; that subsequent to June 8, 1921, and

OREG.-WASHINGTON CO. v. WASHINGTON.
87

91

Opinion of the Court.

prior to September 17, 1921, information was received by
the Washington Director of Agriculture that there was a
probability of the introduction of the weevil into the State
across its boundaries; that he thereupon investigated
thoroughly the insect and the areas where such pests existed and ascertained it to be in the whole of the State of
Utah, all portions of the State of Idaho lying south of
Idaho County, the counties of Uinta and Lincoln in the
State of Wyoming, the county of Delta in the State of
Colorado, the counties of Malheur and Baker in the State
of Oregon, and the county of Washoe in the State of Nevada; that he, with the approval of the Governor of the
State, thereupon, on or about September 17, 1921, made
and promulgated a quarantine regulation and order under
the terms of which he declared a quarantine against all of
the -above described areas and forbade the importation
into Washington of alfalfa hay and alfalfa meal, except in
sealed containers, and fixed the boundaries of the quarantine. The bill further averred that*the defendant, knowing of the proclamation, and in violation thereof, had
caused to be shipped into Washington, in common box
cars,-and not in sealed ciontainers, approximately 100 cars
of alfalfa hay, consigned from various points in the State
of Idaho lying south of Idaho County and through the
State of Oregon and into the State of Washington, in direct violation of the quarafitine order; and that, unless
enjoined, the defendant would continue to make these
shipments from such quarantined area in the State of
Idaho into and through the State of Washington; that
large quantities of alfalfa were grown in the eastern and
central portions of Washington and adjacent to the railroad lines of the defendant and other railroads over which
such shipments of alfalfa hay were shipped, and were likely
to be shipped in the future unless an injunction was
granted, to the great and irreparable damage of the citizens of Washington growing alfalfa therein. A tempo-

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

rary injunction was issued, and then a demuvrer was filed
by the defendants. The demurrer was overruled. An
answer was filed and in each of the pleadings was set out
the claim by the defendant that the action and proclamation of the Director of Agriculture and the Governor,
and chapter 105 of the Laws of Washington of 1921, under
which they acted, were in contravention of the interstate
commerce clause of the Federal Constitution, and in
conflict with an act of Congress.
At the hearing there was evidence on behalf of the
State that the Oregon-Washington and Northern Pacific
Railroads ran through the parts of the State where the
alfalfa was raised; that the weevil had first appeared in
Utah in 1904 in Salt Lake City, and that it had spread
about 10 miles a vear; that it came from Russia and
Southern Europe; that it would be impossible to adopt
any method of inspection of alfalfa hay to keep out the
weevil not prohibitory in cost; that in Europe the weevil
is not a serious pest, because its natural enemies exist
there and they keep it down; that the United States
Government had attempted to introduce parasites, but
that it takes a long time to secure a natural check from
such a method; that methods by using poison sprays, by
burning and in other ways had been used to attack the
pest, but that no one method has been entirely successful;
that there is no practical way of eliminating the beetles
completely if the field once becomes infected, and the continuance of the pest will be indefinite; that the great
danger of spreading the infection is through the transfer
of hay from one section to another. In behalf of the
defendant it was testified that the prevalent opinion in
rtgard to the spread of the alfalfa weevil and the damage
it was doing was vastly exaggerated; that the spread of
the weevil from hay shipped in the cars, through the State
Of Washington, was decidedly improbable. The Superior
Court made thf temporary injunction permanent and the

OREG.-WASHINGTON CO. v. WASHINGTON.
87

93

Opinion of the Court.

Supreme Court of Washington affirmed the decree. This
is a writ of error under section 237 of the Judicial Code
to that decree.
By chapter 105 of the Washington Session Laws of
1921, p. 308, the Director is given the power and duty,
with the approval of the Governor, to establish and maintain quarantine needed to keep out of the State contagion
or infestation by disease of trees and plants and injurious
insects or other pests, to institute an inspection to prevent
any infected articles from coming in except upon a certificate of investigation by such Director, or in his name
by an inspector. Upon information received by the Director, of the existence of any infectious plant, disease, insect
or weed pest, new to or not generally distributed within
the State, dangerous to the plant industry of the State, he
is required to proceed to investigate the same, and then
enforce necessary quarantine. There is a provision for
punishment by a fine of not less than $100, or more than
$1,000, or by both such fine and imprisonment, for violation of the Act.
In the absence of any action taken by Congress on the
subject matter, it is well settled that a State in the exercise of its police power may establish quarantines against
human beings or animals or plants, the coming in of which
may expose the inhabitants or the stock or the trees, plants
or growing crops to disease, injury or destruction thereby,
and this in spite of the fact that such quarantines necessarily affect interstate commerce.
Chief Justice Marshall, in Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat.
1, speaking of inspection laws, says at p. 203:
"They form a portion of that immense mass of legislation, which embraces everything within the territory of
a state, not surrendered to the general government: all
which can be most advantageously exercised by the states
themselves. Inspection laws, quarantine laws, health laws
of every description, as well as laws for regulating the in-

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

ternal commerce of a state, and those which respect turnpike roads, ferries, etc., are component parts of this mass."
Again, he says at p. 205:
"The acts of congress, passed in 1796 and 1799 (1 Stat.
474, 619), empowering and directing the officers of the
general government to conform to, and assist in the execution of the quarantine and health laws of a state, proceed,
it is said, upon the idea that these laws are constitutional
It is undoubtedly true, that they do proceed upon that
idea; and the constitutionality of such laws has never, so
far as we are informed, been denied. But they do not
imply an acknowledgment that a state may rightfully
regulate commerce with foreign nations, or among the
states; for they do not imply that such laws are an exercise of that power, or enacted with a view to it. On the
contrary, they are treated as quarantine and health laws,
are so denominated in the acts of congress, and are considcred as flowing from the acknowledged power of a state,
to provide for the health of its citizens. But, as it was
apparent that some of the provisions made for this purpose, and in virtue of this power, might interfere with,
and be affected by the laws of the United States, made
for the regulation of commerce, congres-, in that spirit of
harmony and conciliation, which ought always to characterize the conduct of governments standing in the relation which that of the Union and those of the states bear
to each othcr, has directed its officers to aid in the execution of these laws; and has, in some measure, adapted its
own legislation to this object, by making provisions in aid
of those of the states. But, in making these provisions,
the opinion is unequivocally manifested, that Congress
may control the state laws, so far as it may be necessary
to control them, for the regulation of commerce."
This Court in the Minnesota Rate Cases, 230 U. S. 352,
406, said:
"Quarantine regulations are essential measures of protection which the States are free to adopt when they do

OREG.-WASHINGTON CO. v. WASHINGTON.
87

95

Opinion of the Court.

not come into conflict with Federal action. In view of the
need of conforming such measures to local conditions,
Congress from the beginning has been content to leave
the matter for the most part, notwithstanding its vast
importance, to the States and has repeatedly acquiesced
in the enforcement of State laws. . . . Such laws undoubtedly operate upon interstate and foreign commerce.
They could not be effective otherwise. They cannot, of
course, be made the cover for discriminations and arbitrary
enactments having no reasonable relation to health (Hannibal & St. Joseph Railroad Co. v. Husqn, 95 U. S.465,
472, 473); but the power of the State to take steps to prevent the introduction or spread of disease, although interstate and foreign commerce are involved (subject to the
paramount authority of Congress if it decides to assume
control), is beyond question. Morgan's &c. S. S. Co. v.
Louisiana, 118 U. S.455; Missouri, Kansas & Texas Ry.
Co. v. Haber, 169 U. S.613; Louisiana v. Texas, 176 U. S.
1; Rasmussen v. Idaho, 181 U. S.198; Compagnie Francaise, etc. v. Board of Health, 186 U. S. 380; Reid v.
Colorado, 187 U. S.137, 138; Asbell v. Kansas, 209 U. S.
251."
Counsel for the company argues that the case of Railroad Co. v. Husen, 95 U. S.465, is an authority to show
that this law as carried out by the proclamation goes too
far, in that it forbids importations from certain parts of
Idaho, of Utah, of Nevada, of alfalfa hay, without qualification and without any limit of time. The Huscn Case
is to be distinguished from the other cases cited, in that
the Missouri statute there held invalid was found by the
Court not to be a quarantine provision at all. It forbade
the importation into- Missouri for eight months of the
year of any Texas, Mexican or Indian cattle without regard
to whether the cattle were diseased or not, and without
regard to the question whether they came from a part of
-he country where they had been exposed to contagion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

We think that here the investigation required by the
Washington law and the investigation actually made into
the existence of this pest and its geographical location
makes the law a real quarantine law, and not a mere inhibition against importation of alfalfa from a large part of
the country without regard to the conditions which might
make its importation dangerous.
The second objection to the validity of this Washington
law and the action of the State officers, however, is more
formidable. Under the language used in Gibbons v.
Ogden, supra, and the Minnesota Rate Cases, supra, the
exercise of the police power of quarantine, in spite of its
interfering with interstate commerce, is permissible under
the Interstate Commerce clause of the Federal Constitution "subject to the paramount authority of Congress if
it decides to assume control."
By the Act of Congress of August 20, 1912, 37 Stat. 315,
c. 308, as amended by the Act of March 4, 1917, 39 Stat.
1165, c. 179, it is made unlawful to import or offer for
entry into the United States, any nursery stock unless
permit had been issued by the Secretary of Agriculture
under regulations prescribed by him.
Section 2 makes it the duty of the Secretary of the
Treasury to notify the Secretary of Agriculture of the
arrival of any nursery stock and forbids the shipment from
one State or Territory or District of the United States into
another of any nursery stock imported into the United
States without notifying the Secretary of Agriculture, or
at his direction, the proper State, Territorial or District
official to which the nursery stock was destined. Whenever
the Secretary of Agriculture shall determine that such
nursery stock may result in the entry of plant diseases or
insect pests, he shall promulgate his determination of this,
but shall give due notice and a public hearing at which
any interested party may appear before the promulgation.

OREG.-WASHINGTON CO. v. WASHINGTON.
87

97

Opinion of the Court.

Section 7 provides that whenever, in order to prevent
the introduction into the United States of any tree, plant
or fruit disease, or any injurious insect, not theretofore
widely prevalent or distributed within and through th6
United States, the Secretary shall determine that it. is
necessary to forbid the importation into the United States,
he shall promulgate such determination, and such importations are thereafter prohibited.
Section 8 of the Act was amended by the Agricultural
Appropriation Act of March 4, 1917, and reads as follows:
"Sec. 8. That the Secretary of Agriculture is authorized
and directed to quarantine any State, Territory, or District
of the United States, or any portion thereof, when he shall
determine that such quarantine is necessary to prevent
the spread of a dangerous plant disease or insect infestation, new to or not theretofore widely prevalent or distributed within and throughout the United States; and
the Secretary of Agriculture is directed to give notice of
the establishment of such quarantine to common carriers
doing business in or through such quarantined area, and
shall publish in such newspapers in the quarantined area
as he shall select notice of the establishment of quarantine.
That no person shall ship or offer for shipment to any
common carrier, nor shall any common carrier receive for
transportation or transport, nor shall any person carry
or transport from any quarantined State or Territory or
District of the United States, or from any quarantined
portion thereof, into or through any other State or Territory or District, any class of nursery stock or any other
class of plants, fruits, vegetables, roots, bulbs, seeds, or
other plant products, or any class of stone or quarry products, or any other article of any character whatsoever,
capable of carrying any dangerous plant disease or insect
infestation, specified in the notice of quarantine except
as hereinafter provided. That it shall be unlawful t(
100569-26-7

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

move, or allow to be moved, any class of nursery stock
or any other class of plants, fruits, vegetables, roots, bulbs,
seeds, or other plant products, or any class of stone or
quarry products, or any other article of any character
whatsoever, capable of carrying any dangerous plant
disease or insect infestation, specified in the notice of
quarantine hereinbefore provided, and regardless of the
use for which the same is intended, from any quarantined
State or Territory or District of the United States or
quarantined portion thereof, into or through any other
State or Territory or District, in manner or method or
under conditions other than those prescribed by the Secretary of Agriculture. That it shall be the duty of the
Secretary of Agriculture, when the public interests will
permit, to make and promulgate rules and regulations
which shall permit and govern the inspection, disinfection,
certification, and method and manner of delivery and
shipment of the class of nursery stock or of any other
class of plants, fruits, vegetables, roots, bulbs, seeds, or
other plant products, or any class of stone or quarry
products, or any other article of any character whatsoever,
capable of carrying any dangerous plant disease or insect
infestation, specified in the notice of quarantine hereinbefore provided, and regardless of the use for which the
same is intended, from a quarantined State or Territory
or District of the United States, or quarantined portion
thereof, into or through any other State or Territory or
District, and the Secretaxr of Agriculture shall give notice
of such rules and regulations as hereinbefore provided ini
this section for the notice of the establishment of quarantine: Provided, That before the Secretary of Agriculture
shall promulgate his determination that it is necessary to
quarantine any State, Territory, or District of the United
States, or portion thereof, under the authority given in
this section, he shall, after due notice to interested parties,
give a public hearing under such rules and regulations

OREG.-WASHINGTON CO. v. WASHINGTON.
87

99

Opinion of the Court.

as he shall prescribe, at which hearing any interested
party may appear and be heard, either in person or by
attorney."
Section 10 of the Act provides that any person who
shall violate any provisions of the Act, or who shall forge,
counterfeit or destroy any certificate provided for in the
Act or in the regulations of the Secretary of Agriculture,
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall, upon
conviction thereof, be punished by a fine not exceeding
$500. or by imprisonment not exceeding one year, or both
such fine and imprisonment, in the discretion of the court.
It is made the duty of the United States attorneys diligently to prosecute any violations of this Act which are
brought to their attention by the Secretary of Agriculture,
or which come to their notice by other means; and for the
purpose of carrying out the provisions of the Act, the
Secretary of Agriculture shall appoint from existing bureaus in his office, a commission of five members employed
therein.
It is impossible to read this statute and consider its
scope without attributing to Congress the intention to
take over to the Agricultural Department of the Federal
Government the care of the horticulture and agriculture
of the States, so far as these may be affected injuriously
by the transportation in foreign and interstate commerce
of anything which by reason of its character can convey
disease to and injure trees, plants or crops. All the
sections look to a complete provision for quarantiit
against importation into the country and quarantine as
between the States under the direction and supervision of
the Secretary of Agriculture.
The courts of Washington and the counsel for the State
rely on the decision of this Court in Reid v. Colorado, 187
U. S. 137, as an authority to sustain the validity of the
Washington law before us. The Reid Case involved the
constitutionality of a conviction of Reid for violation of

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

an Act of Colorado to prevent the introduction of infectious or contagious diseases among the cattle and horses
of that State. The law made it unlawful for any person,
association or corporation to bring or drive any cattle or
horses, suffering from such disease, or which had within
Tlinety (lays prior thereto been herded or brought into
contact with any other cattle or horses, suffering from such
disease, into the State, unless a certificate or bill of health
could be produced from the state veterinary sanitary board
that the cattle and horses were free from all infectious
or contagious diseases. It was urged that it was inconsistent with the Federal Animal Industry Act. This directed a study of contagious and communicable diseases of
animals and the best method of treating them, by the
Federal Commissioner of Agriculture, to be certified to the
executive authority of each State, and the co6peration of
such authority was invited. If the authorities of the State
adopted the plgns and methods advised by the Department, or if such authorities adopted measures of their own
which the Department approved, then the money appropriatedl by Congress was to be used in conducting investigations and in aiding such disinfection and quarantine
measures as might be necessary to prevent the spread of
the diseases in question from one State or Territory into
another. This Court held that Congress did not intend
by the Act to override the power of the States to care for
the safety of the property of their people, because it did
not unlertake to invest any officer or agent of the Department with authority to go into a State and without its
assent take charge of the work of suppressing or extirpat.
ing contagious, infectious or connunicable diseases there
prevailing, or to inspect cattle or give a certificate of freedom from disease for cattle, of superior authority to state
certificates.
It is evidIent that the federal statute under consideration in the Reid Case was an effort to induce the States to

OREG.-WASHINGTON CO. v. WASHINGTON.
87

101

Opinion of the Court.

cooperate with the general Government in measures to
suppress the spread of disease without at all interfering
with the action of the State in quarantining or taking any
other measures to extirpate it or prevent its spread. Indeed the Commissioner of Agriculture in that case was to
aid the state authorities in their quarantine and other
measures from federal appropriation. The act we are considering is very different. It makes no 'reference whatever
to co6peration with state authorities. It proposes the
independent exercise of federal authority with reference
to quarantine in interstate commerce. It covers the whole
field so far as the spread of the plant disease by interstate transportation can be affected and restrained. With
such authority vested in the Secretary of Agriculture, and
with such duty imposed upon him, the state laws of
quarantine that affect interstate commerce and this federal law can not stand together. The relief sought to
protect the different States, in so far as it depends on the
regulation of interstate commerce, must be obtained
through application to the Secretary of Agriculture.
In the relation of the States to the regulation of interstate commerce by Congress there are two fields. There
is one in which the State can not interfere at all, even
in the silence of Congress. In the other, (and this is the
one in which the legitimate exercise of the State's police
power brings it into contact with interstate commerce so
as to affect that commerce,) the State may exercise its
police power until Congress has by affirmative legislation
occupied the field by regulating interstate commerce and
so necessarily has excluded state action.
Cases of the latter type are the Southern Railway Co. v.
Reid, 222 U. S. 424; Northern Pacific Railway Co. v.
Washington, 222 U. S. 370, 378; C. R. I. & P. Ry. Co. v.
Elevator Company, 226 U. S. 426, 435; Erie Railroad Co.
v. New York, 233 U. S. 671, 681; and Missouri Pacific
Railroad Co. v. Stroud, 267 U. S. 404.

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

Some stress is laid by the counsel of the State on the
case of Missouri Pacific Ry. Co. v. Larabee Flour Mills,
211 U. S. 612. There the question was whether a state
court might by mandamus compel a railroad company,
under its common law obligation as a common carrier, to
afford equal local switching service to its shippers, notwithstanding the fact that the cars in regard to which
the service was claimed were two-thirds of them in interstate commerce and one-third in intrastate commerce.
The contention was that the enactment of the Interstate
Commerce Law put such switching wholly in control of
the Interstate Commerce Commission. The case was one
on the border line, three judges dissenting. The number
of cases decided since that case and above cited have made
it clear that the rule, as it always had been, was not intended in that case to be departed from. That rule is
that there is a field in which the local interests of States
touch so closely upon interstate commerce that, in the
silence of Congress on the subject, the States may exercise their police powers; and local switchings, as in that
case, and quarantine, as in the case before us, are in that
field. But when Congress has acted and occupied the
field, as it has here, the power of the States to act is prevented or suspended.
It follows that, pending the existing legislation of Congress as to quarantine of diseased trees and plants in
interstate commerce, the statute of Washington on the
subject can not be given application. It is suggested
that the States may act in the absence of any action by
the Secretary of Agriculture; that it is left to him to
allow the States to quarantine, and that if he does not
act there is no invalidity in the state action. Such construction as that can not be given to the federal statute.
The obligation to act without respect to the States is put
directly upon the Secretary of Agriculture whenever quarantine, in his judgment, is necessary. When he does not

SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO. v. UNITED STATES.
87

103

Syllabus.

act, it must be presumed that it is not necessary. With
the federal law in force, state action is illegal and unwarranted.
The decree of the Supreme Court of Washington is
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS
LAND,

and MR.

JUSTICE SUTHER-

dissenting.

We cannot think Congress intended that the Act of
March 4, 1917, without more should deprive the States of
power to protect themselves against threatened disaster
like the one disclosed by this record.
If the Secretary of Agriculture had taken some affirmative action the problem would be a very different one.
Congress could have exerted all the power which .this
statute delegated to him by positive and direct enactment.
If it had said nothing whatever, certainly the State could
have resorted to the quarantine; and this same right, we
think, should be recognized when its agent has done
nothing.
It is a serious thing to paralyze the efforts of a State
to protect her people against impending calamity and
leave them to the slow charity of a far-off and perhaps
supine federal bureau. No such purpose should be attributed to Congress unless indicated beyond reasonable
doubt.
SOUTHERN PACIFIC COMPANY v. UNITED
STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 805.

Motion to dismiss appeal submitted February 1, 1926.Decided March 1, 1926.

1. This Court has no jurisdiction to consider an appeal from a judgment of the Court of Claims acquiring finality subsequently to

