MICHIGAN v. WISCONSIN.
Syllabus.

287

the carrier is "engaged in the general business of transporting freight in addition to" its passenger business, as
required by § 418 of Transportation Act, 1920, February
28, 1920, c. 91, §§ 418, 421, 41 Stat. 456, 484, 487-8; and
that the Commission was without jurisdiction to enter
the order because there is not in the record satisfactory
evidence that the South Shore was engaged in the general
transportation of freight. See The Chicago Junction
Case, 264 U. S. 258. Since the decision of this case below,
it has been held by this Court that the Commission has
power to prevent unjust discrimination practiced by an
electric railroad against a steam railroad engaged in interstate commerce, even if the electric line is neither operated
as part of a steam railway system nor engaged in the
general transportation of freight in addition to its passenger and express business. United States v. Village of
Hubbard, 266 U. S. 474. It is insisted, however, that the
limitation contained in S 418 applies, because in this case
it is the electric line which is seeking relief. The contention is groundless. Moreover, the Commission found
that the South Shore is also engaged in the general transportation of freight. Its finding is necessarily conclusive
as the evidence taken before the Commission was not
introduced below. Louisiana & Pine Bluff Ry. Co. v.
United States, 257 U. S. 114.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES took no part in the decision of

this case.
MICHIGAN v. WISCONSIN.
IN

No. 19, Original.

EQUITY.

Argued January 5, 1926.-Decided March 1, 1926.

1. Long acquiescence by one State in the possession of territory,
and in the exercise of sovereignty and dominion over it, by another

296

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Syllabus.

270 U. S.

State, is conclusive of the latter's title and rightful authority.
Pp. 308, 313, 316.
2. Where part of the boundary between two States was described in
the enabling act of the one senior in time of admission, as the
center of the main channel of a river, but, in the enabling act and
act of admission of the junior State, as the river, with specific
provision that the line be so run as to include within the jurisdiction of that State all the islands in a designated stretch of the river,
held that the two acts last mentioned gave the junior State color
of title so that her original and long continued possession of, and
assertion and exercise of dominion and jurisdiction over, most of
the islands on the other side of the channel extended her adverse
possession to all of them, in the absence of -actual possession of, or
exercise of dominion over, any part of the included territory by the
other State, the area within the described boundary, both land and
water, being considered as together constituting a 'single tract of
territory. P. 313.
3. The controversy in this suit involved portions of the boundary
between Michigan and Wisconsin extending from Lake Superior via
the Montreal River, Lake of the Desert, and Menominee River to
Green Bay, and thence through the center of the most usual ship
channel to the center of Lake Michigan. From the evidence sum-.
marized in the opinion the Court concludes:
(1) That the description in the enabling act under which Michigan was admitted as a State in 1837, of a line from the mouth of
the Montreal River to the Lake of the Desert, was inserted under
the mistaken belief that the river connected with the lake; that
this mistake was discovered as early as 1841, of which discovery
Michigan, long prior to the admission of Wisconsin, had knowledge;
that the line, as claimed by Wisconsin, which pursues the easterly
branch of the river (instead of the westerly, now claimed by Michigan as the one originally intended,) and which runs from a monument at the head of that branch in a direct course to the Lake of
the Desert, was surveyed and marked by Government surveyors,
in 1841 and 1847; that Michigan not only assented to the result
of these surveys, but actively participated in securing the insertion
of the description of that line in the Wisconsin Enabling Act and
herself substantially adopted it by her Constitution of 1850; that
for a period of more than 60 years she stood by without objection
with full knowledge of the possession, acts of dominion, and claim
and exercise of jurisdiction on the part of Wisconsin over the area
in question; that, in addition, the line as claimed by Wisconsin has
been, from the time of the survey of 1847, accepted as the true

MICHIGAN v. WISCONSIN.
295

297

Syllabus.

one by the United States and, in its surveys, plats and maps, sales
and other acts in respect of the public lands, continuously and
consistently recognized, with the knowledge of Michigan and without protest on her part; that there is no merit in the contention
of Michigan that she labored under an excusable mistake; and that
the territory between the two opposing lines belongs to Wisconsin
in view of her long continued possession, etc., acquiesced in by
Michigan. P. 301.
(2) That, upon like considerations, where the line was described
in the Michigan Enabling Act as running through the fork of the
Menominee River whose head waters were nearest in direct line to
the Lake of the Desert and down the center of the main channel
of the Menominee to Green Bay, and in the Wisconsin Enabling
Act as running from Lake Brul6, along its southern shore to
Brul6 River, thence down that river to the Menominec, and down
the main channel of the Menominee to its mouth, with specific
directions that the line be so run as to include within Michigan
all the islands in the Brul and the Menominee down to and
inclusive of Quinnesec Falls, and within Wisconsin all the islands
in that river between those falls and its junction with Green Bay,-the boundary, as fixed and established by long acquiescence, follows
the channels of the Brul6 and Menominee rivers wherever they are
free from islands, but wherever islands are encountered above the
Quinnesec Falls, it follows the channel nearest the Wisconsin
mainland, so as to throw all such islands into Michigan; and,
wherever islands are encountered below those falls, it follows the
channel nearest the Michigan mainland, so as to throw all such
islands into Wisconsin. P. 308.
.(3) That, upon like considerations, the boundary through Green
Bay to Lake Michigan, (described io both enabling acts as "the
most usual ship channel,") is not the channel claimed by Michigan,
which runs easterly across the bay to near the westerly shore of
Door County peninsular, and thence northerly and through Death's
Door Channel to the lake, but the channel claimed by Wisconsin,
which goes north from the Menominee to a point opposite Rock
Island Passage, and through that passage to fh6 lake,-the title of
Wisconsin to the disputed area being established by long possession
of and dominion over the included islands, acquiesced in by
Michigan. P. 314.
4. In a boundary suit between States, the costs are generally to be
divided. P. 319.
Bill dismissed.

298

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

SUIT brought in this Court by Michigan against Wisconsin to determine boundary questions.

Mr. Meredith P. Sawyer, with whom Messrs. Andrew
B. Dougherty, Attorney General of Michigan, and Carl
D. Mosicr, Assistant Attorney General, were on the brief,
for complainant.
Mr. R. M. Rieser, with whom Messrs. Herman L.
Ekern, Attorney General of Wisconsin, and Emmert L.
Wingert were on the brief, for defendant.
MR.

JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is an original suit in equity brought in this court
to determine the boundary between the states of Michigan and Wisconsin from the mouth of the Montreal River
at Lake Superior to the ship channel entrance from Lake
Michigan into Green Bay. By the Enabling Act of June
15, 1836, c. 99, 5 Stat. 49, under which Michigan became
a state in 1837, c. 6, 5 Stat. 144, this boundary is described
as follows:
" ..
thence [the mouth of the Montreal River]
through the middle of the main channel of the said River
Montreal, to the middle of the Lake of the Desert; thence,
in a direct line to the nearest head water of the Menominee River; thence, through the middle of that fork of the
said river first touched by the said line, to the main channel of the said Menominee River; thence, down the centre
of the main channel of the same, to the centre of the most
usual ship channel of the Green Bay of Lake Michigan;
thence, through the centre of the most usual ship channel
of the said bay to the middle of Lake Michigan;
"
The Territory of Wisconsin was created by an act of
April 20, 1836, c. 54, 5 Stat. 10, 11, and this boundary is
there described in the reverse direction:

MICHIGAN v. WISCONSIN.
Opinion of the Court.

295

.
to a point in the middle of said lake [Michigan], and opposite the main channel of Green Bay, and
through said channel and Green Bay to the mouth of the
Menominee River; thence through the middle of the main
channel of said river, to that head of said river nearest to
the Lake of the Desert; thence in a direct line, to the middle of said lake; thence through the middle of the main
channel of the Montreal River, to its mouth;
The only difference between the two descriptions is that
in the former the call is for the "most usual ship channel,"
while in the latter it is for the "main channel," of Green
Bay. In the Wisconsin Enabling Act of August 6, 1846,
c. 89, 9 Stat. 56-57, under which the state was admitted
by the Act of May 29, 1848, c. 50, 9 Stat. 233, this boundary is described as
" .
running with the boundary line of the State of
Michigan, through Lake Michigan, Green Bay, to the
mouth of the Menominee River; thence up the channel of
said river to the Brul6 River; thence up said last mentioned river to Lake Brul6; thence along the southern
shore of Lake Brul in a direct line to the centre of the
channel between Middle and South Islands, in the Lake
of the Desert; thence in a direct line to the head-waters
of the Montreal River, as marked upon the survey made
by Captain Cramm; thence down the main channel of the
Montreal River to the middle of Lake Superior; .
" .
That, to prevent all disputes in reference to
the jurisdiction of islands in the said Brul6 and Menominee Rivers, the line be so run as to include within the
jurisdiction of Michigan all the islands in the Brut6 and
Menominee Rivers, (to the extent in which said rivers
are adopted as a boundary,) down to, and inclusive of, the
Quinnesee Falls of the Menominee; and from thence the
line shall be so run as to include within the jurisdiction
of Wisconsin all of the islands in the Menominee River,
from the falls aforesaid down to the junction of said river
t

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

with Green Bay: Provided, That the adjustment of
boundary, as fixed in this act, between Wisconsin and
Michigan shall not be binding on Congress, unless the
same shall be ratified by the State of Michigan on or
before the first day of June, one thousand eight hundred
and forty-eight."
The history of events leading up to the present controversy extends over a period of eighty years, and the evidence, including a multitude of official and other maps
,nd documents, constitutes a long and involved record.
The case is reviewed in voluminous but well prepared
briefs, and was helpfully argued at the bar. This mass of
material we have examined with the care properly due
the importance of the issue and the high cha-acter of the
parties litigant; but much of it may be put aside as
unnecessary for final consideration, since the determination we have reached depends upon a comparatively few
decisive facts and circumstances, either undisputed or
clearly established.
In the briefs and oral arguments the boundary is divided for purposes of convenient discussion into three
distinct sections, namely: (1) the Montreal River section,
extending from the mouth of the Montreal River to the
Lake of the Desert and thence to the head-waters of the
Menominee River (or to Lake Brul6); (2) the Menominee River section, extending from its head-waters (or
from Lake Brul6) to Green Bay; and (3) the Green Bay
section, extending from the last named point through the
center of the most usual ship channel of the Green Bay
to Lake Michigan. Although our ultimate determination
in respect of these three sections rests upon the same
basic principle, they are so distinct in their physical characteristics and in respect of much of the evidence peculiarly applicable to each apart from the others, that our
conclusions will be more clearly formulated and better
understood if we adopt the same plan in the examination
of the questions which follows.

MICHIGAN v. WISCONSIN.
295

301

Opinion of the Court.

The Montreal River Section.
If we had before us nothing but the language of the
Michigan Enabling Act, describing this section of the
boundary as extending "through the middle of the main
channel of the said river Montreal, to the middle of the
Lake of the IJesert," it would not be easy to avoid the
conclusion that it was-the understanding of the framers
of the act that the river Montreal could be followed to a
connection with the Lake of the Desert. And that such
was the understanding clearly appears from -the record.
Moreover, maps in existence at the time of the passage of
the act, which were available and must have been known
to the framers, depict the Lake of the Desert (or, as it is
there called, Lac Vieux Desert) as the source of the
Montreal River. But the locality at that time was a
wilderness, the topography of which was practically unknown except to the aboriginal inhabitants and the occasional voyageur, trapper and hunter; and, following the
date of the passage of the act, it was found that, in fact,
the head-waters of the Montreal did not extend to the
Lake of the Desert, but fell short of it some fifty or sixty
miles. It was subsequently revealed by exploration and
surveys that the river from its mouth follows a winding
course for several miles eastwardly and then divides into
two branches, the westerly branch to its head following a
southerly direction and the easterly branch a southeasterly direction. The westerly branch finds its source in a
body of water called Island Lake. The easterly branch
finally divides into two small tributaries, called, respectively, the Balsam and Pine. The lake, which, in our
opinion is sufficiently identified as the one which Congress
meant by its call for the Lake of the Desert, is several
miles nearer to the point of junction of these tributaries
than it is to any point on the westerly branch. Much
evidence was submitted on behalf of Michigan in an effort

302

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

to demonstrate that the westerly branch of the river was
the larger stream and was in fact, and was understood'by
Congress to be, the upper portion of that river, and that
Island Lake at the head of the westerly branch was
intended by the designation "Lake of the Desert." We
think it fairly appears, to the contrary, that the easterly,
and not the westerly, 'branch was, and was understood to
be, the upper portion of the Montreal, but a positive conclusion to that effect is not necessary, since our judgment
turns upon other and independent considerations.
In 1838, an act of Congress, c. 101, 5 Stat. 244, directed
that the boundary line in question be "surveyed, marked,
and designated," and by a later act, approved July 20,
1840, c. 54, 5 Stat. 404, 407, the making of th3 sdrvey was
placed under the superintendence of the War Department.
Pursuant to this legislation, one Captain Cram was directed to make the survey, which he proceeded to do,
completing it in 1841. lie submitted two reports to
Congress, from which it appears that the description of:
the boundary "through the middle of the main channel
of the said river Montreal, to the middle of the Lake of
the Desert" was an impossible one, and that the line
could not be run in complete accordance with it. Carrying out as nearly as possible what he conceived to be the
intention of Congress, he fixed the head-waters of the
Montreal at the junction of the Balsam and Pine, at a
point designated and marked "Astronomical Station No.
2," from which point the line was extended in a direct
course to the Lake of the Desert. His reports embodied
data for the information of Congress and recommended
that action be taken by that body definitely to establish
the boundary.
Captain Cram's first report is dated December, 1840.
lie begins it with an analysis of the description we have
quoted from the Michigan Enabling Act, from which he
infers, that Congress supposed that the Lake of the Desert

MICHIGAN v. WISCONSIN.
295

Opinion of the Court.

discharged itself into the Montreal River; that somewhere
between Lake Superior and Green Bay there was a known
lake bearing that name, since the description is "to the
middle of the Lake of the Desert"; that of the various
head-waters discharging into the Menominee River one
would be found nearest to the Lake of the Desert, since
that is the call; and that this would be found to be a
branch of the Menominee, and not a lake, since the
description is, "through the middle of that fork
first touched by the said line."
Following these inferences, he states that the Lake of
the Desert has no connection either with the Montreal
River or with the Menominee, but constitutes the principal head of the Wisconsin River. His conclusion is that
additional action on the part of Congress will be required
to the end that the boundary may be defined "in such a
manner that it can be established either upon the ground
or laid down on a map with that degree of definiteness
which should always characterize a boundary line between
two states."
On January 12, 1841, the Governor of Michigan addressed a special message to the state Legislature in whi -h
he stated that a strict adherence to the terms of the
Michigan Enabling Act defining the boundary in question, according to information recently communicated to
him by the state geologist, would seem to be "absolutely
impracticable." With the message was transmitted the
communication referred to, together with a sketch of the
country which the Governor thought would present with
sufficient certainty the disagreements between the description contained in the enabling act and the actual
geography of the region. Thereupon, the Legislatureevidently with Captain Cram's report before it, since the
bill avers that action was taken "relying on the representations made in said report as to the impossibility of
locating said boundary in accordance with the [Michigan

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

Enabling Act]"-adopted a joint resolution, reciting that
from a critical examination of the country it appeared
that a strict and literal conformity with the description
was impossible and that presumptively the general intent
could be attained without much difficulty if the line be
immediately marked and described, and requesting Congress to cause the boundary in question to be surveyed
and marked and a commissioner appointed to act with a
state commissioner to the end that the boundary be established in conformity with the manifest general intent of
the act. The state delegation in Congress was requested
by the resolution to endeavor to secure congressional
action to effect this object.
In 1842, and again in 1843, a bill was introduced in the
United States Senate by a Michigan senator to amend the
Michigan Enabling Act so as to make the disputed
boundary conform substantially to the line as it was subsequently defined in the Wisconsin Enabling Act, including that, portion relating to the division of the islands in
the Brul6 and Menominee rivers. These bills failed,
apparently for parliamentary reasons and not because
there was any substantive objection to them. Then followed the Wisconsin Enabling Act of 1846, the pertinent
words of which we have quoted. The provision of this.
act describing the boundary now in question, and providing for a division of the islands in the Brul6 and Menominee, was submitted in the House by a Michigan congressman, with the statement that it had been agreed
upon between the members from Michigan and the Wisconsin delegate. Shortly thereafter, Congress directed a
survey of "so much of the line between Michigan and
Wisconsin as lies between the source of Brul6 River and
the source of Montreal River, as defined by the [Wisconsin Enabling Act]," c. 175, § 4, 9 Stat. 85, 97; and in
pursuance thereof a survey was made by William A. Burt,
in 1847. Burt's line, which was marked with posts set at

MICHIGAN v. WISCONSIN.
295

Opinion of the Court.

half-mile intervals and otherwise identified, substantially
followed Cram's recommendation and is the line now
claimed by Wisconsin.
It does not appear that Michigan acted affirmatively in
respect of the proviso that the adjustment of boundaries
as fixed in the Wisconsin Enabling Act should not be
binding on Congress unless the same should be ratified by
Michigan on or before June 1, 1848., Nevertheless, Wisconsin was admitted by the Act of May 29, 1848, supra,
with the express provision that its boundaries should be
as prescribed by 'the Enabling Act of 1846.
But, while Michigan did not in terms ratify the proviso
just mentioned, there was inserted in her constitution of
1850, and ratified by the people, the following description
of the boundary in question:
C *
to the mouth of the Montreal River; thence
through the middle of the main channel of the said Rive?
Montreal to the head waters thereof; thence in a direct
line to the center of the channel between Middle and
South Islands in the Lake of the Desert; thence in a
direct line to the southern shore of Lake Brul6; thence
along said southern shore and down the River Brul. to
the main channel of the Menominee River; thence down
the center of the main channel of the same to the center
of the most usual ship channel of the Green Bay of Lake
Michigan; thence through the center of the most usual
ship channel of the said Bay to the middle of Lake
Michigan; . . ." 1915 Comp. L. Mich. 133, 134.
This description was adopted by the constitutional con-.
vention held in 1867, with the addition of the words found
in the Wisconsin Enabling Act: "as marked upon the
survey made by Captain Cram." The same description,
including the reference to the Cram survey, was again
re-adopted by the Michigan special constitutional commission of 1873. The proceedings of both the convention
and the commission show that these re-adoptions were
100569°-26-20

306

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

made deliberately and with full understanding. Both
proposed constitutions, however, were rejected by the
people, but apparently for reasons having no relation to
the question of boundaries. Thus the matter rested until
1908, in which year a new and amended constitution was
adopted, containing a radically different description of the
boundary in question, namely:
thence in a direct line through Lake Superior
to the mouth of the Montreal River; thence through the
middle of the main channel of the westerly branch of the
Montreal River to Island Lake, the head waters thereof;
thence in a direct line to the center of the channel between
Middle and South Islands in the Lake of the Desert;
thence in a direct line to the southern shore of Lake
Brul6;

.

.

."

1915 Comp. L. Mich. 2D9, 210.

By this description for the first time the westerly branch
of the Mortreal was brought in and the line carried
through the main channel thereof to Island Lake. During the same year, the Attorney-General of the State was
directed by the state Legislature to investigate and institute proceedings to secure a determination of the correct
boundary. The investigation was made and reported;
and again the matter rested until 1919, at which time the
state Legislature provided for the appointment of a commission to investigate the "disputed" boundary line.
This commission made a report in 1921 and was continued
by an act of the Legislature passed the same year. The
bill was filed in this court on October 8, 1923.
When admitted to statehood, Wisconsin was, and ever
since has continued to be, in possession of the area in
dispute, that is to say, of all lands within the boundary
which she now claims. As early as 1850, county government was established upon the basis of this boundary.
In 1874, taxes were assessed and collected by Wisconsin,
and by 1886, practically the entire area had been subjected to such taxation. During this time, towns were

MICHIGAN v. WISCONSIN.
295

Opinion of the Court.

built, highways constructed, public buildings erected, elections held, Wisconsin law enforced, and other customary
acts of dominion and jurisdiction exercised by that state
within the disputed area.
From the foregoing facts and circumstances the conclusions are inevitable: that the description in the Michigan Enabling Act of the line from the mouth of the
Montreal to the Lake of the Desert was inserted under
the mistaken belief that the river connected with the
lake; that this mistake was discovered as arly as 1841,
of which discovery Michigan, long prior to the admission
of Wisconsin, had knowledge; that the line as now claimed
by Wisconsin was' surveyed and marked by Cram and
Burt at the dates already stated; that Michigan not only
assented to the result of these surveys, but actively participated in securing the insertion of the description of
that line in the Wisconsin Enabling Act and herself substantially adopted it by the Constitution of 1850; and
that for a period of more than 60 years she stood by without objection with full knowledge of the possession, acts
of dominion, and claim and exercise of jurisdiction on the
part of the State of Wisconsin over the area in question.
In addition to this, the line as claimed by Wisconsin has
been, from the time of the Burt survey, accepted as the
true boundary by the United States and, in its surveys,
plats and maps, sales and other acts in respect of the
public lands, continuously and consistently recognized,
with the knowledge of Michigan and without protest on
her part. Indeed, nothing appears to indicate dissatisfaction with the boundary thus established until the adoption of the Constitution of 1908, and, even then, except
to the extent that this may be regarded as a continuing
assertion of a claim to the boundary as there set forth or
as originally described in the Michigan Enabling Act, the
matter was allowed to rest until 1919.
To meet this situation, it is contended that the State of
Michigan through all these years labored under a mistake

308

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

in respect of the real facts and that this was the result of
excusable ignorance on her part. The contention is devoid of merit. The material facts, since at least the date
of the Wisconsin Enabling Act, have been so obvious that
knowledge of them on the part of the Michigan authorities, if it were not shown, as it is shown, by the evidence,
must necessarily be assumed.
Notwithstanding, the State of Michigan at this late day
insists that the boundary now be established by a decree
of this court in accordance with the description contained
in her Constitution of 1908. Plainly, this cannot be done.
That rights of the character here claimed may be acquired
on the one hand and lost on the other by open, long-continued and uninterrupted possession of territory, is a doctrine not confined to individuals but applicable to sovereign nations as well, Direct United States Cable Co. v.
Anglo-American Telegraph Co., [1877] L. R. 2 A. C. 394,
421 ; Wheaton, International Law, 5th Eng. Ed.. 268-269;
1 Moore, International Law Digest, 294 et seq., and, a
fortiori, to the quasi-sovereign states of the Union. The
rule, long-settled and never doubted by this court, is that
long acquiescence by one state in the possession of territory by another and in the exercise of sovereignty and
dominion over it is conclusive of the latter's title and
rightful authority. Indiana v. Kentucky, 136 U. S. 479,
509, et seq.; Virginia v. Tennessee, 148 U. S. 503, 522524; Louisiana v. Mississippi, 202 U. S. 1, 53; Maryland
v. West Virginia, 217 U. S. 1, 40-44; Rhode Island v.
Massachusetts,4 How. 591, 639; Missouri v. Iowa, 7 How.
660, 677; New Mexico v. Colorado, 267 U. S. 30, 40-41.
That rule is applicable here and is decisive of the question
in respect of the Montreal River section of the boundary
in favor 'of Wisconsin.
The Menominee River Section.
The description in the Michigan Enabling Act of this
section of the boundary begins at the head waters of the

MICHIGAN v. WISCONSIN.
295

Opinion of the Court.

Menominee River nearest to the Lake of the Desert in a
direct line,
"thence, through the middle of that fork of the said river
first touched by the said line, to the main channel of the
said Menominee River; thence, down the centre of the
main channel of the same, to the centre of the most usual
ship channel of the Green Bay."
The description in the act creati'ng the Territory of
Wisconsin is the same, but in the opposite direction:
t.
thence through the middle of the main channel of said [Menominee] river, to that head of said river
nearest to the Lake of the Desert; thence in a direct line
..
to the middle of said lake;
But the description in the Wisconsin Enabling Act contains important differences:
".
.thence up the channel. of said [Menominee]
river to the Brul6 River; thence up said last mentioned
river to Lake Brul4; thence along the southern shore of
Lake Brul in a direct line to the centre of the channel
between Middle and South Islands in the Lake of the
Desert; . . ." or, stated in the .order of the Michigan
act: From the center of the channel between Middle and
South Islands in the Lake of the Desert in a direct line to
the southern shore of Lake Brule; thence along the southern shore of LAice Brul6 to the Brul6 River; thence down
the Brul River to the Menominee; thence down the
channel of the Menominee to its mouth.
The evidence shows that Lake Brul6 is not the head of
the Menominee nearest to the Lake of the Desert,. as
called for by the Michigan Enabling Act, though the
Brul6 River is the principal tributary of the Menominee;
and the inference is pretty clear that the change of description was made in the Wisconsin Enabling Act as a
part of a general readjustment of the boundary. At any
rate, since this part of the line is not in controversy, we
need not consider the matter except as it may reflect light

310

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

upon the effect of, and the question of Michigan's
acquiescence in, the further provision, that, to prevent
disputes as to jurisdiction, the line shall be so run as to
include within the jurisdiction of Michigan all islands in
the Brul6 and Menominee down to and including the
Quinnesec Falls of the Menominee, and thence so as to
include within the jurisdiction of Wisconsin all islands in
the Menominee below the falls. As to this part of the
line, the contention of Wisconsin is that the description
in the Wisconsin Enabling Act was in effect a proposed
adjustment of the boundary as an undividable unit, and
that Michigan, by the Constitution of 1S50, having expressly adopted that part of the line from the Lake of the
Desert to Lake Brul6, cannot be heard to say that she did
not also adopt the adjustment of the line in respect of a
division of the islands. There is force in this contention,
and especially so in view of the fact that the change from
the nearest head-water of the Menominee to Lake Brul6
operated to give Michigan additional territory. To permit her to reap the benefit of the adjustment so far as it
is to her advantage and reject it to the extent that it is
advantageous to her sister state would be plainly inequitable. We prefer, however, to rest our determination
upon the conclusion, fully justified by the record, that,whatever were the rights of the respective states in respect
of the islands in question immediately upon the adoption
of the Constitution of 1850,-Wisconsin, for a period of
more than half a century following that time, had the undisputed and undisturbed possession of substantially all
of the islands in tho river below the Quinnesec Falls, and,
without reference to the main channel of the river, exercised jurisdiction and dominion over them with the
knowledge and acquiescence of the complainant.
Captain Cram's first report to Congress, dated December, 1840, points out the impracticability of following the
center of the main channel of the river:

MICHIGAN v. WISCONSIN.
295

Opinion of the Court.

"The 'center' of the main channel of the Menominee
River is made a part of the boundary. The River contains numerous islands, and consequently more than one
channel, where these islands occur. It will be impossible
in many of these cases to know which is the 'main channel' without minute surveys. In many cases it was tried
and found impossible to decide by a simple inspection or
reconnaissance which was the ' main channel.' It should
also be remarked here that the term 'main channel'
applied to the multiplicity of channels of the Menominee,
would be somewhat ambiguous in, any event-for, it may
be asked-Is the main channel the widest channel of the
river? Or is it the deepest? If it is the widest or deepest
now, will it be the widest or deepest hereafter? Or shall
the main channel be that through which the greater quantity of water shall be found to pass at the time of the
survey? And if it should occur that two channels at the
same island pass equal quantities of water-which would
then be regarded as the boundary? These questions are
sufficient to show the indefiniteness of the term 'Main
Channel '-There are also a, few islands in the Brul6
River to which similar questions might apply in reference
to the term 'Main Channel.'
"To avoid all ambiguity in reference to these channels,
it might be specified in the act defining the boundary,
that in ascending the stream, the boundary shall follow
the extreme left hand channel of the Brul6 and the extreme right hand channel of the Menominee down to a
well known point of the river-say Pe-me-ne Falls; and
thence to follow the extreme left hand channel of the
remainder of the Menominee to its mouth. Such a division would leave most of the islands in Michigan and the
remainder in Wisconsin, and would avoid much expense in
minute surveys to ascertain the 'main channel' and would
leave no indefiniteness upon this part of the boundary.
The free use of either channel for the purposes of naviga-

312

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U.S.

tion would, from an established principle of law, be open
at all times to the citizens of either state, and the islands
would be nearly distributed in equal proportions between
the two states."
Following the date of this report in respect of the impossibility-or extreme difficulty practically amounting to
that-of locating the boundary in accordance with the
provisions of the Michigan Enabling Act, and, it fairly
may be assumed, with a view of effectuating Captain
Cram's recommendation, the Michigan Legislature passed
the resolution already referred to, calling upon Congress
to cause the boundary to be surveyed and marked in conformity with the manifest general intent of the Michigan
Enabling Act, and requesting the delegation of the state
in Congress to use their efforts to secure such action.
This was followed, as already stated, by the introduction
of the bills in the Senate and the subsequent insertion, by
agreement between the members of Congress from Michigan and the Wisconsin delegate, of the provision in the
Wisconsin Enabling Act dividing the islands in accordance
with Captain Cram's suggestion, except in a particular not
important here.
In 1854, the survey of all of the islands below Quinnesec
Falls as a part of Wisconsin, was directed by the United
States Surveyor General for Wisconsin, and such survey
was immediately begun and thereafter continuously prosecuted. The evidence, in our, opinion, fairly shows that,
as early as 1879, the greater part in area of all of them
had been thus surveyed and platted as belonging to Wisconsin, including many which would fall on what Michigan claims is the Michigan side of the main channel.
On behalf of Michigan, it is strongly contended that to
this there are important exceptions. But, without going
into details, it is enough to say that the clear weight of
the evidence is to the contrary. It is'true that so-called
Island No. 8, or Merryman's Island, was surveyed as in

MICHIGAN v. WISCONSIN.
295

313

Opinion of the Court.

both states; that the Wisconsin survey was subsequently
cancelled; and that, thereafter, exclusive jurisdiction over
the tract of land constituting it was exercised by Michigan. It is said that, nevertheless, the "island" is now
claimed by Wisconsin; but, on the contrary, Wisconsin
concedes that it belongs to Michigan. The fact is that
the tract was originally considered to be an island and,
consequently, surveyed as a part of Wisconsin. Upon
further investigation, it was found by the United States
Surveyor not to be an island, but, in reality, a part of the
Michigan mainland. The Wisconsin survey was, accordingly, cancelled and the title of Michigan thereafter fully
conceded. Two other so-called islands of small area in
the same vicinity are in like situation.
Some of these islands, comparatively small in area and
of little consequence, have never been surveyed or any
definite acts of dominion exercised over them by either
state. But to this we attach no importance. The assertion and exercise of dominion by Wisconsin over the
islands on the Michigan side of the channel was begun
and has continued in virtue of, and in reliance upon, the
readjustment of the boundary set forth in the Wisconsin
Enabling Act. The rule is well-settled in respect of
individual claimants that actual possession of a part of a
tract by one who claims the larger tract, under color of
title describing it, extends his possession to the entire
tract in the absence of actual adverse possession of some
part of it by another. Clarke's Lessee v. Courtney, 5 Pet.
319, 354; Hunnicutt v. Peyton, 102 U. S. 333, 368; Ellicott v. Pearl, 10 Pet. 412, 442; Smith v. Gale, 144 U. S.
509, 525-526; Montoya v. Gonzales, 232 U. S. 375, 377;
Houston Oil Co. of Texas v. Goodrich, 213 Fed. 136, 142.
Upon like grounds and with equal reason, under circumstances such as are here disclosed, the principle of the rule
applies where states are the rival claimants. It results
that the Wisconsin Enabling Act, together with the Act

314

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

of Admission, gave color of title in that state to all of the
islands within the limits there described; and that her
original and continued possession, assertion and exercise
of dominion and jurisdiction over a part of these islands,
pursuant to such legislation and with the acquiescence of
Michigan, extended Wisconsin's possession, dominion and
jurisdiction to all of them, in the absence of actual possession of, or exercise of dominion over, any territory within
the boundary by Michigan. The fact that the islands
constitute separated tracts of land is of no consequence
here, whatever its effect might be under other conditions.
In applying the rule, the area within the described
boundary, both land and water, must be considered as
together constituting a single tract of territory.
We, therefore, hold, as to this section of the boundary,
that from Lake Brul6 to the mouth of the Menominee the
line, which is now fixed and finally established by long
acquiescence, follows the channels of the Brul6 and
Menominee wherever they are free from islands; that
wherever islands are encountered above the Quinnesec
Falls the line follows the channel nearest the Wisconsin
mainland, so as to throw all such islands into Michigan;
and that wherever islands are encountered below the
Quinnesec Falls the line follows the channel nearest the
Michigan mainland, so as to throw all such islands into
Wisconsin.
The Green Bay Section.
In determining the boundary through this section, the
question is not embarrassed by differences of description.
The calls of the Michigan Enabling Act are down the
channel of the Menominee to "the centre of the most
usual ship channel of the Green Bay of Lake Michigan;
thence through the centre of the most usual ship channel
of the said Bay to the middle of Lake Michigan." The
Wisconsin Enabling Act calls for the same boundary.

MICHIGAN v. WISCONSIN.
295

Opinion of the Court.

The evidence shows that there are two div!tinct ship
channels, to either of which this description might apply.
From the mouth of the Menominee, the channel, according to the Michigan claim, proceeds across the waters of
Green Bay in an easterly direction until near the westerly
shore of the Door County peninsula; thence, in close
proximity to the shore, in a northerly direction to a point
opposite Death's Door Channel (or Porte d~s Morts);
thence through that channel into Lake Michigan. The
channel claimed by Wisconsin, after leaving the mouth of
the Menominee, turns to the north and pursues a
northerly direction to a point opposite the Rock Island
passage which lies between Rock Island and St. Martin's
Island; thence through the Rock Island passage into
Lake Michigan. The territory in dispute lies between
these rival channels, and embraces two groups of islands:
(1) Chambers Island, the Strawberry Islands, and a few
others, small and unnamed, all within the main waters
of Green Bay west of the Door County peninsula; and
(2) Rock, Washington, Detroit and Plum islands, lying
between Death's Door Channel and the Rock Island
passage, at the north end of the peninsula. The evidence
as to which of the two ship channels was the usual one at
the time of the adoption of the Michigan Enabling Act is
not only conflicting, but of such inconclusive character
that, standing alone, we could base no decree upon it with
any feeling of certainty. Living witnesses are no longer
available; and tradition, recollection of statement!-made
by persons long since dead-if of aly legitimate value-,
deductions drawn from ancient documents, more or less
cryptic, and inferences based on more recent uses of the
channels or on their relative safety and conven nce as
indicated by physical characteristics, all relied upon in
the absence of first-hand evidence, constitute at best
most unsatisfactory substitutes. If it were necessary, we
should, of course, undertake the task-as we should be

316

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of.the Court.

270 U. S.

bound to do-of reaching a conclusion from these dubious
premises. But, it is not necessary, for, as in the case of
the two sections of the boundary just discussed, the title
of Wisconsin to the disputed area now in question, is
established by long possession and acquiescence; and this
conclusion is justified by evidence and concessions of the
most substantial character.
There is evidence of acts of dominion and possession of
some of the disputed islands while Wisconsin was yet a
territory. Almost from the day of her admission, the
state has continuously possessed, asserted title and exercised jurisdiction and dominion )ver all of the islands
within the boundary claimed by her. In support of this
general statement, the following, among other things,
may be cited: On March 21, 1855, Washington, Detroit,
Rock and Plum islands, described as being in the waters
of Green Bay in Door County, were organized by an act of
the Wisconsin Legislature as the town of Washington.
Ch. 210, Laws of Wisconsin, 1855. A census taken the
same year by the town clerk showed a population of 318,
which has since grown, it is said, to about 1000. Since
before that time, the United States Land Department, by
its surveys, plats and sales of public lands, has uniformly
and notoriously recognized the islands as a part of Wis'n .sin. without objection on the part of Michigan.
indeed, as early as 1837, they were surveyed and platted
as a part of Wisconsin Territory. A large number of
maps published and available to the public during the
years between 1837 and 1878, without exception, show the
islands as a part of Wisconsin; and during the same time
they do not appear in any survey or upon any map as
belonging to Michigan. Never, so far as we are able to
find from the record, have they been recognized in any
practical way as a part of Michigan or, prior to the comnieticemnent of this suit, claimed by that state.
The evidence in respect of the other group of islands,
while perhaps not so complete, is definite and clear to the

MICHIGAN v. WISCONSIN.
295

Opinion of the Court.

same effect. The taxation of lands on Chambers Island
began while Wisconsin was still a territory. In 1861,
voters on that island participated in a Wisconsin election.
A history of Door County, introduced by complainant,
recites that the island constituted an organized town
forming a part of Door County, Wisconsin, as early as
1867. Evidence of early and continued recognition and
treatment of the island as a part of Wisconsin by the
United States through its surveys, etc., is. to the same
effect as that in respect of the other group. And the evidence is likewise the same in respect of the uniform appearance of Chambers Island and the other small islands
of the group upon the old maps as a part of Wisconsin,
and their absence from Michigan surveys and maps. The
absence of evidence of specific acts of dominion over the
Strawberry and the other small islands of this group is
easily understood and does not affect the result. They
are of little consequence, lying well within the boundary
as claimed by Wisconsin, easterly from Chambers Island
and near the westerly shore of the Door County peninsula.
They appear on all maps as, and have never been regarded
or treated otherwise than, a part of Door County. It is
impossible to give them a status differing from that of the
larger island and the peninsula, between, and within the
shadows of, which they lie.
That Wisconsin since statehood has continuously asserted title and has exercised complete and exclusive
dominion over all the islands of both groups is really not
a serious issue. Indeed, the bill of complaint avers that
Wisconsin has possessed herself of, and exercised sovereignty over, the islands, including Washington, Plum, the
Strawberries, and numerous other valuable islands, and
has excluded and continues to exclude the State of Michigan from her rights thereto; and, more particularly, that
"Wisconsin has for many years disregarded the true and

318

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

rightful boundary . . . and has for a long time past
possessed and does now possess, and has asserted and does
now assert, civil, criminal and political jurisdiction over
those portions of the territory within the Michigan
boundaries above described as the Montreal River section,
the Menominee River section, and Green Bay section of
the disputed territory, aggregating approxinately 255,000
acres, . . . and has unlawfully taxed and still continues to unlawfully tax said property, . . ."
The
explanation relied upon is that the State of Michigan, as
a result of her excusable ignorance, has not been aware
of the real facts and, therefore, sh( uld not be held to have
loit rights by lorg acquiescence which she otherwise might
have had. This view cannot be accepted and may be dismissed with a reference to what we have already said as
to the same defense in respect of the Montreal River
section.
In respect of the controversy as a whole, and each of the
three sections, the words of this court in Indiana v. Kentucky, supra, p. 509, are singularly apposite and conclusive:
if
It was over seventy years after Indiana became a State before this suit was commenced, and during
all this period she never asserted any claim by legal proceedings to the tract in question. She states in her bill
that all the time since her admission Kentucky has
claimed the Green River Island to be within her limits
and has asserted and exercised jurisdiction over it, and
thus excluded Indiana therefrom, in defiance of her authority and contrary to her rights. Why then did she
delay to assert by proper proceedings her claim to the
premises? On the day she became a State her right to
Green River Island, if she ever had any, was. as perfect
and complete as it ever could be. On that day, according
to the allegations of her bill of complaint, Kentucky was
claiming and exercising, and has done so ever since, the

MICHIGAN v. WISCONSIN.
295

Opinion of the Court.

rights of sovereignty both as to soil and jurisdiction over
the land. On that day, and for many years afterwards,
as justly and forcibly observed by counsel, there were
perhaps scores of living witnesses whose testimony would
have settled, to the exclusion of a reasonable doubt, the
pivotal fact upon which the rights of the two States now
hinge and yet she waited for over seventy years before
asserting any claim whatever to the island, and during
all those years she never exercised or attempted to exercise
a single right of sovereignty or ownership over its soil. It
is not shown, as he adds, that an officer of hers executed
any process, civil or criminal, within it, o. that a citizen
residing upon it was a voter at her polls, or a juror in her
courts, or that a deed to any of its lands is to be found on
her records, or that any taxes were collected from residents upon it for her revenues.
"This long acquiescence in the exercise by Kentucky
of dominion and jurisdiction over the island is more
potential than the recollections of all the witnesses produced on either side. Such acquiescence in the assertion
of authority by the State of Kentucky, such omission to
take any steps to assert her present claim by the State of
Indiana, can only be regarded as a recognition of the right
of Kentucky too plain to be overcome, except by the
clearest and most unquestioned proof. It is a principle of
public law universally recognized, that long acquiescence
in the possession of territory and in the. exercise of
dominion and sovereignty over it, is conclusive of the
nation's title and rightful authority."
The result is that complainant has failed to maintain
her case in any particular; and that the claims of Wisconsin as to the location of the boundary in each of the
three sections are sustained.
The decree, therefore, will be for Wisconsin, costs to be
divided between the parties in accordance with the general rule in cases of this character. North Dakotav. Min-

320

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Syllabus.

270 U. S.

nesota, 263 U. S. 583. The boundary seems to be sufficiently defined for all purposes of future possession and
jurisdiction; but the parties, or either of them, if so advised, may within 30 days submit the form of a decree
more particularly to carry this opinion into effect; failing
which, a simple decree dismissing the bill will be entered.
It is so ordered.
UNITED STATES v. READING COMPANY.
READING COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
UNITED STATES v. SOUTHERN RAILWAY
COMPANY.
UNITED STATES v. ST. LOUIS, BROWNSVILLE &
MEXICO RAILWAY COMPANY.
UNITED STATES v. NEW YORK, NEW HAVEN &
HARTFORD RAILROAD COMPANY.
UNITED STATES v. CENTRAL NEW ENGLAND
RAILWAY COMPANY.
UNITED STATES v. NEW ENGLAND STEAMSHIP
COMPANY.
UNITED STATES v. BALTIMORE & OHIO RAILROAD COMPANY. (2 cases.)
PERE MARQUETTE RAILWAY COMPANY v.
UNITED STATES.
APPEALS

FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

Nos. 401, 402, 403, 404, 398, 399, 400, 499, 500, 36. Argued December
3, 1925.-Decided March 1, 1926.
1. Where amounts earned by military transportation before federal
control were paid, either to the respective railroads entitled or to
the Director General of Railroads, (who, on taking over their

