266

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Syllabus.

270 U. S.

Act, although no tariff provided for the charges. The
service by special engine and crew contracted for and
given was not spotting solely for the convenience of the
shipper. It was the spotting service covered by the tariff. Compare Car Spotting Charges, 34 I. C. C. 609;
Downey Shipbuilding Corp; v. Staten Island Rapid
Transit Ry. Co., 60 I. C. C. 543. It is true that abnormal
conditions may relieve a carrier from liability for failure
to perform the usual transportation services, but they do
not justify an extra charge for performing them. The
carrier is here seeking compensation in excess of the tariff rate for having performed a service covered by the
tariff. This is expressly prohibited by the Interstate
Commerce Act, Act of February 4, 1887, c. 104, § 6(7),
24 Stat. 379, 381, as amended. A contract to pay this additional amount is both without consideration and illegal.
It is no answer that by virtue of the contract the shipper
secured the assurance of due performance of a transportation service which otherwise might not have been:
promptly rendered; that ordinarily rental of engine and
crew is not a common carrier service; and that such
rental may be charged without filing a tariff providing
therefor. Compare Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific Ry.
Co. v. Maucher, 248 U. S. 359. To so assure performance
to a shipper was an undue preference. Hence the contract would be equally void for illegality on this ground.
Davis v. Cornwell, 264 U. S. 560.
Affirmed.
TEXAS & PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY v. GULF,
COLORADO & SANTA FE RAILWAY COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 417.

Argued December 2, 1925.-Decided March 1, 1926.

1. In a -suit, under par. 18 of § 402, Transportation Act, 1920, to
enjoin the construction of railway tracks as constituting an exten-

TEXAS & PAC. RY. v. GULF, ETC., RY.
266

267

Syllabus.

sion for which a certificate of public convenience and necessity
must first be obtained under par. 18 from the Interstate Commerce Commission, the District Court has jurisdiction to decide
the issue whether the track is an extension (rather than an industrial track excepted by par. 22) without waiting for that question
to be presented to the Commission. P. 271.
2. When applied to for a certificate, (pars. 19-20,) the Commission
may pass incidentally upon the question whether the proposed
extension is in fact such; for, if it be only an indus trial track
(par. 22,) the Commission must decline, on that ground, to issue
a certificate. P. 272.
3. A carrier desiring to construct new tracks does not necessarily
admit, by applying for a certificate, that they constitute an extension, but may submit, and secure a determination of, the
question, without waiving any right. P. 273.
4. A party in interest, though entitled to appear and resist an application if one be made, can not initiate proceedings before the
Commission against the project, but is afforded an absolute and
complete remedy by injunction, under par. 20. Id.
5. Every court of general jurisdiction has power to determine whether
the conditions essential to its exercise exist. P. 274.
6. On the facts described in the opinion-held that a proposed line
would be an extension, and not a spur or industrial track. Id.
7. In determining what is an extension, the purpose of the Act to
develop and maintain an adequate railway system, and therein to
curb wasteful competition and the building of unnecessary lines, is
P. 277.
the important guide.
8. "Spur, industrial, team, switching or side tracks, . . . located
wholly within one State," (par. 22,) are commonly constructed
.either to improve the facilities required by shippers already served
by the carrier or to supply the facilities to oiers, who, being
within the same territory and similarly situated, are entitled to like
service from the carrier. The question whether the construction
should be allowed or compelled depends largely upon local conditions which the state regulating body is peculiarly fitted to appreciate. Moreover, the expenditure involved is ordinarily small.
P. 278.
9. But if the purpose and effect of the new trackage is to extend,
substantially, the line of a carrier into new territory, the proposed
trackage constitutes an extension of the railroad within the meaning
of par. 18, although the line be short, and although the character
of the service contemplated be that commonly rendered to industries by means of spurs or industrial tracks. P. 278.

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for Appellee.

270 U. S.

10. The plaintiff, which, immediately upon learning of defendant's
intention to extend its line without obtaining a certificate under
§ 402, par. 18 of the Transportation Act, protested to the federal
and state commissions and began suit for injunction before the
('onstruction contract was mad--held not guilty of laches. P. 279.
4 Fed. (2d) 904, reversed.

APPEAL from a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
reversing a decree of the District Court (298 Fed. 488)
enjoining the construction and operation of a railway
extension. See also 266 U. S. 588.
Messrs. T. D. Gresham and Thomas J. Freeman, for
apptllant.
Mr .J. TV. Terry, with whom Messrs. Homer W. Davis,
Gardiner Lathrop, and Thomas J. Norton were on the
brief, for appellee.
The rulings or definitions of the Interstate Commerce
Commission should have controlling weight.
The testimony of the witnesses as to what constituted
a spur or industrial track prior to 1920 should be
considered.
It is not the purpose of the Transportation Act of 1920,
amending the Interstate Commerce Act, to destroy competition between competing systems.
The construction of an extension of a railroad without
a certificate of authority by the Interstate Commerce
Commission is prohibited by the Act. In the Interstate
Commerce Commission there clearly is vested the primary
jurisdiction to determine whether or not a proposed extension is compatible with public interest. Surely it was
the intention of Congress also to vest in the Commission
the primary power to determine the corollary and subordinate question as to whether or not any proposed
track, the construction of which is undertaken without its
authority, is an extension and, if an extension, to make
an order requiring the carrier to cease and desist from

TEXAS & PAC. RY. v. GULF, ETC., RY.
266

269

Argument for Appellee.

completing the project unless upon, application, a certificate of convenience and necessity is obtained. Plainly
the construction or operation of a track confessedly an
extension may be enjoined; but when in any such injunction suit the question arises as to whether or not the track
under construction is a spur track or an extension, then
the burden is upon the plaintiff to show that such track
is an extension; and that burden may only be sustained
by introducing in evidence a finding of the Interstate
Commerce Commission to that effect. Otherwise, the
court loses jurisdiction.
The Texas and Pacific Company could have filed a
petition and it would have been the duty of the Commission to. investigate it. If the Commission found that
the work entered upon was an extension of the defendant's railroad, a finding to that effect would have been
made. Thereupon the Commission or any state commission, or party in interest, including the Texas and Pacific
Company, could have brought a suit to restrain the construction or operation (in interstate commerce) of the
extension.
Considered and construed alone, the other provisions
of the Act authorizing suits for damages by the shipper
or other injured party, or suits for mandamus, would have
given the courts jurisdiction of such suits without any
resort to the Interstate Commerce Commission. But,
notwithstanding such apparent authority, this Court construed those provisions with reference to other provisions,
and the general design, of the Act, to secure uniformity
in its application and remedies. T. & P. v. American
Tie Co., 234 U. S. 138; T. & P. v. Abilene Oil Co., 204
U. S. 426; Loomis v. Lehigh, etc., Ry. Co., 240 U. S. 43;
Morrisdale v. P. R. R. Co., 230 U. S. 304; Robinson v.
B. & 0. R. R., 222 U. S. 506; Northern Pacific v. Solum,
247 U. S. 477; DirectorGeneral v. Viscose, 254 U. S. 498;

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

United States v. Pacific & Arctic Co., 228 U. S. 87; Houston, etc., Ry. Co. v. United States, 234 U. S. 342. So,
upon principle, when Congress adopted the general language at the end of par. 20, § 1, authorizing suit, it must
be presumed to have intended that it be construed in the
same way as other general language in the Act authorizing suit had been construed. Great Nor. Ry. v. Merchants Elev. Co., 259 U. S. 291; TV. & A. R. R. v. Georgia
Pub. Ser. Comm., 267 U. S. 497.
Only appellant could appropriately have invoked the
jurisdiction of the Commission.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Transportation Act, 1920, c. 91, § 402, 41 Stat. 456,
477-8, provides, Paragraph (18): ". . . no carrier by
railroad subject to this Act shall undertake the extension
of its line of railroad . . unless and until there shall
first have been obtained from the Commission a certifi-'
cate that the present or future public convenience and
necessity require or will require the construction
of such extended line . . ." Paragraph (22): "The
authority of the Commission [so] conferred
shall not extend to the construction . . . of spur, into be lodustrial, team, switching or side tracks, . . .
cated wholly within one State . . ." Paragraph (20):
"Any construction . . . contrary to the provisions
.

.

.

of paragraph (18)

.

.

.

may be enjoined by

any court of competent jurisdiction at the suit of
any party in interest."
This suit was brought by the Texas & Pacific Railway
Company I in the federal district court for southern Texas
'The suit was begun by Lancaster and Wallace, receivers of the
corporation. The receivership terminated before entry of the final
decree in the District Court; and the corporation was substituted as

plaintiff.

TEXAS & PAC. RY. v. GULF, ETC., RY.
266

271

Opinion of the Court.

to enjoin the Gulf, Colorado & Santa Fe Railway Company from c6nstructing wholly within that State projected trackage, sometimes called the Hale-Cement Line.
The bill alleges that the line is, within the meaning of the
above provision, an extension of the defendant's railroad;
that the prescribed certificate from the Interstate Commerce Commission has not been secured; and that operation of the line will result in irreparable injury to the
plaintiff, because it will divert to the Santa Fe traffic
which would otherwise be enjoyed by the Texas & Pacific. By answer the defendant challenged the jurisdiction of the court, insisted that the line is merely an industrial track, and asserted that the plaintiff is barred by
laches. After a full hearing, the District Court entered
a final decree enjoining the construction or operation of
the line unless and until the prescribed certificate should
have been obtained. 298 Fed. 488. The case was first
brought to this Court by the Santa Fe on constitutional
grounds by direct appeal under § 238 of the Judicial Code.
Because no substantial constitutional question was presented, this Court transferred it to the Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, 266 U. S. 588. There the
decree of the District Court was reversed. 4 Fed. (2d)
904. The second appeal to this Court was then taken by
the Texas & Pacific under § 241 of the Judicial Code; and
the case was docketed here on May 5, 1925. The three
objections to granting relief which had been set up in the
answer were renewed here.
First. The Santa Fe contends that the decree of the District Court was properly reversed, because the Texas &
Pacific had not secured a determination by the Interstate
Commerce Commission that the projected line constitutes
an extension. It is admitted that where projected tracks
would confessedly constitute an extension and no certificate has been obtained, a court may enjoin construction.
although such prior determination by the Commission

272

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

was not made or sought. The claim is that where the defendant asserts that the proposed tracks do not constitute
an extension, the court must, under the doctrine of Texas
& Pacific Ry. Co. v. American Tie & Timber Co., 234
U. S. 138, and Northern PacificRy. Co. v. Solum, 247 U. S.
477, 483, either dismiss the bill because it is without jurisdiction, or postpone action because it is without power to
proceed, unless and until a determination by the Commission of the controverted question shall have been made.
It is argued that the issue whether tracks constitute an
extension presents an administrative question; that the
Commission has power to decide it, because Congress, by
conferring authority to determine whether an extension
is compatible with the public interest, has by implication
conferred authority to determine also the subordinate
question whether a proposed track constitutes an extension; that if the. Commission finds the track to be an extension, it may under its general powers make an order
requiring the carrier to cease and desist from construction and operation unless and until the prescribed certificate is obtained; and that, as the Commission has such
primary jurisdiction, its aid must have been invoked before a court can grant relief.
To this argument the provisions of the Act afford a
conclusive answer. Paragraph 18 prohibits construction
of an extension without obtaining the certificate. Paragraphs 19 and 20 provide that a carrier desiring to construct one may apply for the certificate and prescribe the
method of proceeding. Whenever such an application
is made, the Commission may pass incidentally upon the
question, whether what is called an extension is in fact
such ;2 for, if it proves to be only an industrial track, the
Commission must decline, on that ground, to issue a cer2

See Application of Atlanta & St. Andrews Bay Ry. Co., 71

I. C. C. 784, 792; Operation of lines by Coal River & Eastern Ry.
Co. 94 I. C. C. 389, 393.

TEXAS & PAC. RY. v. GULF, ETC., RY.
266

273

Opinion of the Court.

tificate. A carrier desiring to construct new tracks does
not, by making application to the Commission, necessarily admit that they constitute an extension. It may
secure a determination of the question, without waiving
any right, by asserting in the application that in its
opinion a certificate is not required because the construction involves only an industrial track.4 But a party in
interest who is opposed to the construction is not authorized by the Act to initiate before the Commission any
proceeding concerning the project. If application for a
certificate has been made, he may appear there in opposition. If no such application has been made, paragraph
20 affords him the only remedy. That remedy is both
affirmative and complete.
The function of the court upon an application for an
injunction under paragraph 20 is a very different one
from that exercised by the Commission when, having
taken jurisdiction under paragraphs 19 and 20, it grants
or refuses a certificate. The function confided in the
Commission is comparable to that involved in a determination of the propriety or application of a rate, rule or
practice. It is the exercise of administrative judgment.
Where the matter is of that character, no justiciable
question arises ordinarily until the Commission has acted.
Compare Great Northern Ry. Co. v. Merchants Elevator
Co., 259 U. S. 285, 295. The function of the Court upon
the application for an injunction is to construe a statutory provision and apply the provision as construed to
the facts. The prohibition of paragraph 18 is absolute.
If the proposed track is an extension and no certificate
has been obtained, the party in interest opposing construction is entitled as of right to an injunction. The is8 See Abandonment of line of Missouri Pacific R. R., 76 I. C. C.
635.
4 See Construction of line by Delaware, Lackawanna & Western
R. R., 94 I. C. C. 541.
100569--26--l

274

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Oiiniion of the Court.

270 U. S.

sue presented to the court by a denial that the proposed
trackage is an extension does not differ in its nature from
that raised when the denial is directed to the allegation
that the defendant is an interstate carrier. Compare
Smyth v. Asphalt Belt Ry. Co., 267 U. S. 326, 328-9. If
the facts are agreed, the question is one of law. If they
are not agreed, the court must find them. In the case at
bar, the District Court, having jurisdiction generally of
the parties and of the subject matter, was called upon to
determine whether an allegation in the bill, essential to
the cause of action, was established. This, the court
clearly had power to do. Moreover, even if the question
presented were, as contended, properly one of jurisdiction, the objection urged could not prevail. Every court
of general jurisdiction has power to determine whether
the conditions essential to its exercise exist.
Second. The facts on which the Santa Fe contends
that the proposed line is merely an industrial track are
undisputed. Dallas is a large interior city. The Texas &
Pacific extends through it and beyond in a general westerly direction; the Santa Fe in a general southwesterly
direction. Both lines have been operated for many years.
Along the Texas & Pacific, commencing at a point 21/2
miles west of the city and extending westward about
21//, miles farther, lies territory known as the Industrial
District. To its development the facilities and services
furnished by the Texas & Pacific have been essential. In
it are cement works, oil refineries and metal works. -The
traffic moves in carload lots. All the industries are either
located on its right of way or connect with it by spurs.
To serve the plants that carrier has long switches and
assembling tracks. No other railroad has any direct connection with any of these industries. Their traffic from
or destined to the Santa Fe or other lines is interchanged
by the Texas & Pacific at points on its.line distant from
these industries from 12 to 30 miles. Thus, the Texas

TEXAS & PAC. RY. v. GULF, ETC., RY.
266

275

Opinion of the Court.

& Pacific receives either the whole or a part of the revenue
on all the traffic of the district-the richest freight-producing territory in all Texas.
The Santa Fe has no branch line running near to, or in
the direction of, any part of the Industrial District. Hale
is a station on its road. The proposed line is to begin at
Hale, where storage and assembling yards are to be
located, and is to end in the Industrial District, near the
Texas & Pacific right of way. The air-line distance from
Hale to the proposed terminus is only 31/4 miles; but the
length of line is 71/2 miles, besides spurs, sidings and other
subsidiary tracks. The greater length is necessitated in
part by topograplical conditions. These are such that
the cost of construction is estimated at $510,000. There
is to be one under crossing, where the new line intersects
an interurban line, another where it intersects a highway.
There are to be two small trestles and numerous fills and
cuts. In some respects the character of the construction
is that commonly used for industrial tracks. No intention appeared to ballast the track save in stretches where
the material was bad. Second .hand 75-pound rails,
lighter than those commonly used by the Santa Fe, are
to be laid. But these are heavier than those used on some
of its branches. The ruling grade of the Hale-Cement
Line is that prevailing on the Santa Fe branch line running out of Dallas to Paris and Cleburne with which it is
to connect. The right of way averages 100 feet; and it
is to be fenced on both sides for its full length.
No industry is now located along the proposed line
between Hale and the Industrial District. The territory
adjacent to that part of the line does not now produce any
freight tonnage. The Hale-Cement Line was projected
by the Santa Fe in order to reach on its own rails the six
plants within the district which lie south of the Texas &
Pacific Railroad. These furnish 80 per cent. of the traffic
of the District. If enabled thus to tap it direct, the Santa

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

Fe can secure a part of the strictly competitive business,
and can eliminate the division of rates with the Texas &
Pacific on all freight of the District received from or
destined to the Santa Fe lines, which is now necessarily
handled as inter-line traffic. The freight revenues which
the Santa Fe would thus obtain and divert from the Texas
& Pacific are estimated at more than $500,000 a year. No
plant now served by the Texas & Pacific lies directly on
the proposed line. They are so located that the Santa Fe
must, in order to reach them, build in each case a spur
track to the plant from the Hale-Cement main line,
although it describes a curve, due in part to the desire to
connect with each of these plants. The Santa Fe must,
in order adequately to perform the transportation service,
also build near the industries two side tracks, one 1,200
feet, the other 1,500 feet in length.
The Hale-Cement Line is clearly not a spur in the sense
in which that word is commonly used. It presents some
of the characteristics of a branch; and a branch is clearly
an extension of a railroad within the meaning of paragraph 18. The Santa Fe contends that it constitutes an
industrial track within the meaning of paragraph 22, because the line is to be constructed solely for industrial
purposes. It shows that, according to the plans, the general public is not to be served; that, except at Hale, there
will be no public station for the receipt or delivery of
freight; no telegraph service; no express, mail or passenger traffic; that the transportation between Hale and
the industries will be confined to carload freight; that it
will be conducted as a switching service for which no
charge will be made; and that the Hale rate will apply
to all traffic on the projected line. It argues that a
branch is a line serving one or more stations beyond the
point of junction with the main line or another branch,
and to or from which stations regular tariff rates Are in
effect; that an industrial track ia a line constructed to

TEXAS & PAC. RY. v. GULF, ETC., RY.
266

277

Opinion of the Court.

serve or reach industries over which regular scheduled
passenger or freight train service is not performed and for
transportation over which only a switching charge, if any,
is made; and that neither the length of the line, nor the
character of the construction, can convert into a branch
a line of the nature described.
In support of its contention that the proposed line constitutes an industrial track, the Santa Fe cites instructions
differentiating branches from spurs, which are given by
the Interstate Commerce Commission in forms long prescribed for accounting purposes. It points also to uses
made of these terms in other connections by courts,5 by
the Commission, and by state legislatures. A truer guide
to the meaning of the terms extension and industrial
track, as used in paragraphs 18 to 22, is furnished by the
context and by the relation of the specific provisions here
in question to the railroad policy introduced by Transportation Act, 1920. By that measure, Congress undertook to develop and maintain, for the people of the United
States, an adequate railway system. It recognized that
preservation of the earning capacity, and conservation of
the financial resources, of individual carriers is a matter
of national concern; that the property employed must be
permitted to earn a. reasonable return; that the building
of unnecessary lines involves a waste of resources and that
the burden of this waste may fall upon the public; that
competition between carriers may result in harm to the
public as well as in benefit; and that when a railroad
inflicts injury upon its rival, it may be the public which
ultimately bears the loss. See Railroad Commission v.
Chicago, Burlington & Quincy R. R. Co., 257 U. S. 563;
The New England Divisions Case, 261 U. S. 184; The
5 Compare Los Angeles Switching Case, 234 U. S. 294; Detroit &
Mackinac Ry. Co. v. Michigan Railroad Commission, 240 U. S. 564;
Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul Ry. Co. v. Minneapolis Civic &
Commerce Association, 247 U. S. 490, 501.

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

Chicago Junction Case, 264 U. S. 258; Railroad Commission v. Southern Pacific Co., 264 U. S. 331. The Act
sought, among other things, to avert such losses.
When the clauses in paragraphs 18 to 22 are read in the
light of this congressional policy, the meaning and scope
of the terms extension and industrial track become clear.
The carrier was authorized by Congress to construct, without authority from the Commission, "spur, industrial,
team, switching or side tracks . . . to be located wholly
within one State." Tracks of that character are commonly constructed either to improve the facilities required
by shippers already served by the carrier or to supply the
facilities to others, who being within the same territory
and similarly situated are entitled to like service from the
carrier. The question whether the construction should
be allowed or compelled depends largely upon local conditions which the state regulating body is peculiary fitted
to appreciate. Moreover, the expenditure involved is
ordinarily small. But where the proposed trackage extends into territory not theretofore served by the carrier,
and particularly where it extends into territory already
served by another carrier, its purpose and effect are, under
the new policy of Congress, of national concern. For invasion through new construction of territory adequately
served by another carrier, like the establishment of excessively low rates in order to secure traffic enjoyed by
another, may be inimical to the national interest. If the
purpose and effect of the new trackage is to extend substantially the line of a carrier into new territory, the. proposed trackage constitutes an extension of the railroad
within the meaning of paragraph 18, although the line be
•short and although the character of the service contemplated be that commonly rendered to industries by means
of spurs or industrial tracks. Being an extension, it cannot be built unless the federal commission issues its certificate that public necessity and convenience require its

TEXAS & PAC. RY. v. GULF, ETC., RY.
266

279

Dissent.

construction. The Hale-Cement Line is clearly an extension within this rule.
Third. The Santa Fe contends that the judgment denying relief was proper also because the Texas & Pacific
had been guilty of laches. This defense was not passed
upon by the Court of Appeals. The District Court overruled it as unsupported in fact, and also on the ground
that a plaintiff suing under paragraph 20 represents the
public as well as private interests and that, hence, a
plaintiff's laches cannot operate as a bar. We need not
determine whether the latter ground is sound; for the
facts do not warrant a finding of laches. The Santa Fe
gave no publicity to its purpose. It had purchased some
of the right of way before the Texas & Pacific learned
that the line was planned. The latter protested immediately to both the state and the federal commissions and
insisted that the proposed line constituted an extension.
The Santa Fe, having been advised by the Interstate
Commerce Commission of the Texas & Pacific protest,
had some correspondence with the Director of Finance.
We need not discuss its import. The Santa Fe did not
file an application for a certificate of public necessity and
convenience. It continued its purchase of the right of
way despite the Texas & Pacific protests. It made the
contract for construction of the line after the commencement of the suit. It proceeded with the construction
until stopped by the injunction. It acted at its peril.
In its appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals the Santa
Fe assigned as error that the decree entered was too broad
or was indefinite. If the objection is well founded, the
error may be cured by application to the District Court.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS

dissents on the ground that

the question should have been first submitted to the
Interstate Commerce Commission.

