SEABOARD CO. v. CHICAGO,

ETC.,

RY. CO. 367

Opinion of the Court.

363

"original jurisdiction" as used in § 28 refers only to the
general jurisdiction conferred on the District Courts, and
does not relate to the venue provision in § 51; there being
"no purpose in extending to removals the personal privilege accorded to defendants by § 51, since removals are
had only at the instance of defendants." This was approved and followed in Lee v. Chesapeake Railway, supra,
657.
Whether the suit be originally brought in the District
Court. or removed from a state court, the general federal
jurisdiction is the same; and the venue or local jurisdiction of the District Court over the person of the defendant is dependent irthe one case as in the other upon the.
voluntary action of the non-resident defendant, being
acquired in an original suit by his waiver of objection to
the venue, and in a removed suit by his application for
the removal to the District Court.
Since the question does not require further argument,
the motion of the Railway Company is granted, and the
judgment of the District Court is

Affirmed.
GENERAL AMERICAN TANK CAR CORPORATION
ET AL.

v. DAY, SHERIFF AND EX-OFFICIO TAX

COLLECTOR.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICr OF LOUISIANA

No. 162. Argued January 21, '1926.-Decided March 1, 1926.
1. A decision by the highest state court holding a state tax conformable to the requirement of the constitution of the State
as regards uniformity of taxation, is binding on this Court.
P. 371.
.2. A state tax imposed, in lieu of local taxes, on rolling stock
which is owned by non-resident corporations having no domicile
in the State and is operated over riilroads within' the State
(Act 109, La. Ls. 1921'), is not objectionable, under the Corn-

368

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for Appellants.

270 U. S.

merce Clause, as an attempt to compel non-residents doing interstate business in the State to declare a local domicile, if the
amount and method of computing the tax are not in question,
and if it does not operate to discriminate in some substantial
way between property of such non-residents and that of residents or domiciled non-residents. P. 372.
3. The method of allocating taxes between the State and its political subdivisions, is a matter within the competency of the state
legislature. P. 372.
4. Where a state taxing statute, which imposes a property tax on
non-residents in lieu of local taxes imposed on residents, discloses no purpose to discriminate against non-residents, and
in substance does not do so, it is not invalid under the Equal
Protection Clause merely because equality in its operation, as
compared with local taxation, has not been attained with mathematical exactness. P. 373.
5. Parties challenging a state tax on non-residents, upon the
ground that it discriminates against them by exceeding the
average taxes imposed on residents from which non-residents
are exempt, have the burden of proving such excess. P. 374.
Affirmed.

APPEAL from a decree of the District Court dismissing
the bill in a suit brought by several corporations, not
domiciled in Louisiana, to enjoin the appellee, a tax-collector for one of the Louisiana parishes, from seizing their
property in satisfaction of a tax assessed on their rolling
stock, operated over railroads within the State.
Mr. Sigmund W. David, with

whom

Messrs. Elias

Mayer and Edwin T. Merrick were on the brief, for
appellants.
A State has no-right to require a non-resident to procure a license or declare a domicile for the privilege of
engaging in interstate commerce; and a state tax, which
in effect does that, violates the Commerce Clause of the
Constitution. Alpha Portland Cement Co. v. Massachusetts, 268 U. S. 203; Int. Text Book Co. v. Pigg, 217
U. S. 91; Buck Stove & Range Co. v. Vickers, 226 U. S.
205; Sioux Remedy Co. v. Cope, 235 U. S. 197; Crutcher

GEN. AMER. TANK CAR CORP. v. DAY. 369
367

Argument for Appellants.

v. Kentucky, 141 U. S. 47; Horn Mining Co. v. New
York, 143 U. S. 305; Dahnke-Walker Co. v. Bondurant,

257 U. S. 282; Barrett v. New York, 232 U. S. 14;
Looney v. Crane Co., 245 U. S. 178; Crenshaw v. Arkansas, 227 U. S. 389; McCall v. California, 136 U. S. 104;
Pensacola Tel. Co. v. Western Union--Tel. Co., 96 U. S.
1. A tax which is intended to and does affect the rolling
stock of only those engaged in interstate commerce who
have failed or refused to declare a domicile in the State
is not a property tax within the rule laid down by the
decisions of this Court. Looney v. Crane Co., supra;
Western Union Tel. Co. v. Kansas ex rel. Coleman, 216
U. S. 1; Pullman Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 56; Int. Paper
Co. v. Massachusetts, 246 U. S. 135. Assuming, however, that this is a property tax and not a special license
tax, still it burdens interstate commerce by discriminating
against the property of the plaintiffs because they are
non-resident corporations not domiciled within the State.
Darnell & Son Co. v. Memphis, 208 U. S. 113; Brimmer
v. Rebman, 138 U. S. 78; Walling v. Michigan, 116 U. S.
446; Guy v. Baltimore, 100 U. S. 434; Welton v. Missouri, 91 U. S. 275; Ward v. Maryland, 12 Wall. 418;
Cook v. Pennsylvania, 97 U. S. 566; Lyng v. Michigan,
135 U. S. 161.
The tax also violates § 1 of the 14th Amendment.
Southern Ry. Co. v. Greene, 216 U. S. 400; Bethlehem
Motors Corp. v. Flynt, 256 U. S. 421; Ward v. Maryland,
supra; Chalker v. Birmingham & N. W. Ry., 249 U. S.
522; Travis v. Yale & Towne Mfg. Ccf., 252 U. S. 60;
Leecraft v. Texas Co., 281 Fed. 918. The contention
that residents and non-residents who have declared a local
domicile must pay local taxes in addition to the 51/4 mill
state tax, and that the local taxes average approximately
25 mills, is unsound. The purpose of the 25 mill tax
was not to equalize the burdens. Even if the average
of all local taxes is approximately 25 mills, and the pur100569*-26-24

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

pose of the tax is to equalize the burdens, the special
tax is void because, in jrinciple, the discrimination still
exists.
Sections 5, 6, and 7 of Act 109, and the 25-mill tax,
violate § 1, Art. 10 of the Louisiana Constitution, 1921,
providing: " All taxes shall be uniform throughout the
territorial limits of the authority levying the tax."
Mr. Harry P. Sneed for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE STONE

delivered the opinion of the Court.

Appellants brought suit in the United States District
Court for eastern Louisiana to enjoin the appellee from
collecting, by seizure of appellants' property, a tax assessed against them by the State of Louisiana. From a
judgment dismissing the bill the case comes here on direct
appeal by reason of the constitutional questions involved.
Jud. Code § 238, before amendment of 1925; Hay8 v.
Port of Seattle, 251 U. S.233; Arkadelphia Milling Co. v.
St. Louis & S. W. Ry. Co., 249 U. S.134.
The tax in quest'ion was imposed under § 5 of Act 109
of the Louisiana Laws of 1921. Section 1 of that Act
imposes a tax, for state purposes, of five and one-fourth
mills on the dollar on all property within the State. Section 5 authorizes the assessment of an additional tax for
state purposes of twenty-five mills on the dollar "of the
assessed value of all rolling stock of non-resident
corporations, having no domicile in the State of Louisiana,
operated over any railroad in the State of Louisiana
within or during any year for which such tax is levied
."
Article X, § 16 of the Louisiana constitution
exempts from all local taxation non-residents paying the
twenty-five mill tax. Appellants do not complain of the
five and one-fourth mill tax assessed against them under
§ 1; nor do they question the amount or method of computation of the twenty-five mill tax assessed under § 5;,

GEN. AMER. TANK CAR CORP. v. DAY. 371
367

Opinion of the Court.

but they object to it on the ground that it violates the
constitution of Louisiana, which requires that "all taxes
shall be uniform upon the same class of subjects" (Art.
X, § 1), and on the ground that, as applied to appellants,
it violates the federal Constitution by imposing a burden
on interstate commerce, and denies to appellants the
equal protection of the laws, in that it discriminates unreasonably between residents of Louisiana or non-residents domiciled within the State, and non-residents not
so domiciled and engaged in interstate commerce.
All the appellants are corporations organized in States
other than Louisiana and are not domiciled or licensed
to do business in that State. All own and operate within
the State tank cars, for the transportation of oil, which
are used in interstate commerce. Taxes on property
within the State of Louisiana, other than state taxes,
are assessed where the taxpayer is domiciled, by the several parishes and by municipalities in the parishes, both
of which are political subdivisions of the State. In some
parishes, local taxes exceed twenty-five mills, and in
others they are less than that amount; but it is asserted
by the appellee that the average of all local property
taxes is approximately twenty-five mills.
The tax in question is authorized by Art. X, § 16, of
the Louisiana constitution, which reads as follows:
"Section 16: Rolling stock operated in this State, the
owners of which have no domicile therein, shall be assessed by the Louisiana Tax Commission, and shall be
taxed for State purposes only, at a rate not to exceed
forty mills on the dollar of assessed value."
The constitutionality of the twenty-five mill tax Imposed under this section was upheld by the Supreme
Court of Louisiana in Union Tank Car Co. v. Day, 156
La. 1071, and that case disposes of the objections urged
here to the validity of the tax under the state constitution.

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

It is argued that the twenty-five mill tax, which was
imposed on tank cars belonging to the several appellants,
is a thinly disguised attempt to compel non-residents
doing interstate business in Louisiana to declare a domicile in the State, and that it is therefore an unconstitutional burden on interstate commerce, within the principle of those cases holding that a State may not require
a non-resident to procure a license to do business or to
declare a domicile within the State as a condition to engaging in commerce across its boundaries. International
Text Book Co. v. Pigg, 217 U. S. 91; Dahnke-Walker
Milling Co. v. Bondurant, 257 U. S. 282. But it is obvious
from an inspection of the statute that the tax in question
is imposed on property of non-residents in lieu of the local
tax assessed in the several parishes of the State on property of persons or corporations domiciled there, and that
the non-resident may either pay the state tax assessed
under § 5 or, at his option, by becoming domiciled in a
parish, pay instead of it the local taxes assessed within
the pai'ish. The effect of § 5 isnot to require the nonresident corporation to take out a license to do business
within the State, but only to subject its property within
the State to state taxation. There being no question as
to the amount of the tax or the method of its computation, the taxation of appellants' property within the State
can be open to no objection unless it operates to discriminate in some substantial way between the property
of the appellants and the property of residents or domiciled non-residents. Cudahy Packing Co. v. Minnesota,
246 U. S. 450; and see Pullman Palace Car Co. v. Pennsylvania, 141 U. S. 18.
We are not concerned with the particular method
adopted by Louisiana of allocating the tax between the
State and its political subdivisions. That is a matter
within the competency of the state legislature. Columbus
Southern Ry. Co. v. Vright, 151 U. S. 470, 475, 476.

GEN. AMER. TANK CAR CORP. v. DAY. 373
367

Opinion of the Court.

The court below found, as did the state Supreme Court
in Union Tank Car Co. v. Day, supra, that all local taxes
throughout the State, from which appellants are exempted
by the Louisiana constitution, average approximately
twenty-five mills, and that, since the tax assessed under
§ 5 was substantially the equivalent of the local tax in
lieu of which it was assessed, there was no unjust discrimination. Such a classification is not necessarily discriminatory. Travellers' Insurance Co. v. Connecticut,
185 U. S. 364. Where the statute imposing a tax which
is in lieu of a local tax assessed on residents, discloses no
purpose to discriminate against non-resident taxpayers,
and in substance does not do so, it is not invalid merely
because equality in its operation as compared with local
taxation has not been attained with mathematical exactness. In determining whether there is a denial of
equal protection of the laws by such taxation, we must
look to the fairness and reasonableness of its purposes
and practical operation, rather than to minute differences
between its application in practice and the application
of the taxing statute or statutes to which it is complementary. Travellers' Insurance Co. v. Connecticut, supra;
and see State Railroad Tax Cases, 92 U. S. 575, 612;
Shaffer v. Carter, 252 U. S. 37, 56.
But appellants challenge the District Court's finding
of fact that local taxation throughout the State will
average about twenty-five mills. They insist that the
average of local taxation is twenty-one mills, and that
this disparity between the rate of tax assessed on appellant and the local tax on the property of residents, is a
substantial discrimination establishing the invalidity of
the tax. In the absence of a purpose to discriminate, disclosed by the legislation itself, we are not prepared to
say that a four mills variation in one year not shown to
be a necessary or continuing result of the scheme of taxation adopted, would be an unconstitutional discrimina-

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

tion; for in such a scheme of complementary tax statutes,
however fairly devised, it would be impossible to provide
in advance against occasional inequalities as great as that
here complained of.
The record, however, does not support appellants' contention. It was stipulated by the parties that the total
of all state and local taxes on property in some of the
parishes exceeds thirty and one-quarter mills, the sum of
the general state tax of five and one-quarter mills and
the special twenty-five mills tax on property of non-residents; and that in other parishes, it is less than that
amount. The stipulation does not, however, show the
amount of the variation in the rate of local taxation nor
its average throughout the State. The only evidence on
the subject is an extract from the annual report of the
Louisiana Tax Commission, purporting to relate to taxes
"for the parishes." From the data embodied in this
report, appellants make their own calculation that the
average rate of all parish and local taxes is twenty-one
mills. It is, however, conceded that municipalities within
the parishes have independent power of taxation. In
some instances they are exempt from taxation by the
parish (La. Const., Art. XIV, § 12,) and the power of
parishes to tax property in incorporated cities and towns
for parochial purposes is, in certain instances, limited.
(La. Const., Art. XIV, §§ 7 and 8.) It is contended by
appellee that appellants' computation dpes not include in
local taxes, all the taxes assessed by municipalities within
the parishes except in the case of the parish of Orleans,
whose limits coincide with those of the city of New Orleans, and that there the rate exceeds thirty-one mills, as
is shown by the report of the Tax Commission. It is impossible to say from an inspection of the extract from
the report in'evidence, which of these contentions is correct. The report is stated to cover taxes for the parishes
and includes numerous items of parish taxes, but it does

TOWAR MILLS v. UNITED STATES.
367

Counsel for Parties.

not show on its face whether all taxes assessed by cities,
towns, and villages within the parish are included in the
report, and there is nothing in the record which will
enable us to ascertain that fact. The appellant has,

therefore, failed to show that the tax is discriminatory
either in principle or in its practical operation- and has
laid no foundation for assailing its constitutionality.
The judgment of the District Court is
Affirmed.

TOWAR COTTON MILLS, INC. v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 196. Argued January 29, 1926.-Decided March 1, 1926.
1. Where there are no findings of the Uourt of Claims that claimant
suffered any loss or damage under, or by reason of the cancelation
of, his contract with the War Department, it is unnecessary to
consider whether an awaid, made by the Secretary of War and
accepted by the claimant, was binding on the latter. P. 377.
2. Where claimant entered into two contracts, one to supply goods
to the Government and the other, later, by which the Government
advanced money to carry out the first and took his note, upun
which were to be credited deductions from payments falling due
under the first, an award to the claimant on the first, (after its
cancelation,) did not bar the Government's counterclaim on the
note; and the award was properly credited as of its date, rather
than the date when the earlier contract was canceled. P. 377.
59 Ct. Cls. 841, affirmed.
APPEAL from a judgment of the Court of Claims dismissing claimant's petition and awarding recovery to the
United States on a counterclaim.

Mr. Raymond M. Hudson for appellant.
Assistant Attorney General Galloway, with whom
Solicitor General Mitchell was on the brief, for the United

States.

