SMITH v. ILL. BELL TEL. CO.
580

Syllabus.

22, 1922. Thus the method to be pursued in removing
the discrimination was left at large. The Peoria Company contends that, even if the order of April 13, 1922,
be deemed to have been in force, selection and approval
of the method to be pursued in the removal of discrimination present administrative problems, and that further
action by the Commission would be required before any
court could be called upon to enforce that order. As the
District Court for southern Iowa was without jurisdiction
of this suit because that order was not in force, we need
not consider this objection.
Affirmed.

SMITH

ET AL.

V.

ILLINOIS BELL TELEPHONE
COMPANY.

THE SAME v. THE SAME.
APPEALS FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
-SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

Nos. 193, 670.

Argued March 5, 1926.--Decided April 12, 1926.

1. An order granting an interlocutory injunction is merged in a
decree of permanent injunction, and, when both are appealed from,
the appeal from the former will be dismissed. P. 588.
2. A suit against a state commission to enjoin enforcement of confiscatory rates will not be defeated by the objection that the plaintiff should first have exhausted its legislative remedy by filing a
new application for increases, when the plaintiff's application for
that purpose had been uniformly recognized by the commission as
pending before it and the objection was purely technical. P. 590.
3. A public service company, suffering from confiscatory rates) is not
required to await indefinitely a decision by the rate-making
tribunal on a pending application before applying to a federal court

for equitable relief. P. 591.
4. In a suit to restrain a state commission from enforcing confiscatory
telephone rates, the telephone subscribers are represented by the

commission and bound by the decree.
Affirmed.

P. 592.

588

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

from an interlocutory order and a final decree
of the District Court, enjoining members of a state commission and the state Attorney General from enforcing
confiscatory telephone rates.
APPEALS

Messrs. Harry C. Heyl and R. H. Radley, with whom
Messrs. Oscar E. Carlstrom and S. F. McGrath were on
the brief, for appellants.
Mr. William D. Bangs, with whom Messrs. Philip B.
Warren and Charles M. Bracelen were on the brief, for
appellee.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The telephone company, an Illinois corporation, owns
and operates a telephone system in the City of Peoria and
vicinity. It brought suit on June 18, 1924, against appellants (members of the state Commerce Commission and
Attorney General of the State of Illinois) to enjoin them
from enforcing or attempting to enforce a schedule of
rates alleged to be confiscatory, and from taking any steps
or proceedings against the company by reason of the
collection by it of rates and charges under another and
higher schedule. A motion to dismiss the bill was overruled;, and, upon the bill and attached exhibits and affidavits, appellants refusing to plead further, a permanent
injunction in accordance with the prayer was granted by
the lower court. The appeal in No..670 is from that
decree.
The appeal in No. 193 is from an order, previously
entered, granting an interlocutory injunction. A motion
to dismiss that appeal on the ground that the order for
the interlocutory injunction had become merged in the
final decree, was submitted but consideration postponed
to the hearing on the merits. The motion is now granted

SMITH v. ILL. BELL TEL. CO.
587 •

Opinion of the Court.

and the appeal in No. 193 dismissed. Shaffer v. Carter,
252 U. S. 37, 44; Pacific Tel. Co. v. Kuykendall, 265 U. S.
196, 205. In the cases cited, both interlocutory and permanent injunctions had been denied; here they were
granted; but the record discloses no reason which prevents the same principle from being applicable.
The averments of the bill, which, upon this record, must
be taken as true, disclose the following facts: The operations of the company were conducted with reasonable
economy. For the year 1921, the net revenues, after
payment of operating expenses and taxes, were, in round
figures, $46,000; for the year 1922 there was a deficit of
over $48,000; for 1923, a deficit of nearly $65,000; and
a deficit for each month of the year 1924 preceding the
filing of the bill. The fair value of the property, including working capital, material and supplies, and going
value, was at least $3,800,000.
In July, 1919, the predecessor in ownership of the company filed with the commission a schedule of rates covering the telephone service in question, which the commission, by final order after a hearing, approved. Prior to
that order, however, the predecessor of the company had
filed with-the commission a second schedule of increased
rates, to become effective May 1, 1920. The commission first suspended the effective date oF this schedule
until August 29, 1920; and then, by successive orders,
until February 26, 1921, August 26, 1921, and February
23, 1922. The-present company, in December, 1920, succeeded to the property and rights of its predecessor.
During 1920, heariigs were had before the commission
in respect of the justice and reasonableness of the rates
proposed by the second schedule, but no determination
of the matter was reached. The commission, although
often requested by the company to do so, thereafter failed
and refused to hold further hearings, but on October 31,
1921, entered an order purporting permanently to sus-

590

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

pond, cancel and annul the second schedule. A rehearing
was applied for and denied.
Thereupon, an appeal was prosecuted to the Circuit
Court of Peoria County; and that court, on April 6, 1922,
reversed the commission's order and remanded the cause
for further proceedings. The commission redocketed the
cause and had hearings in June, July and September,
1922, after which the company filed its written motion
requesting the commission to make effective a temporary
schedule of rates pending a final determination. This
motion was denied on September 28, 1922. On July 5,
1923, the company called attention to the delay in the
determination of the cause, and to the fact that the revenues derived from the operation of the Peoria exchange
fell short of meeting its operating expenses, and requested
the commission to set the cause for an early hearing.
This request was ignored; and the commission ever since
has failed Iand refused to determine the issues in the cause
or to determine whether the rates and charges provided
in the second schedule are just and reasonable; but has
continued in effect the rates and charges contained in the
first schedule approved by it. These rates not only do
not yield a fair return, but are insufficient to pay the
operating cost of rendering telephone service to the subscribers and patrons of the exchange. Finally, it is
alleged that the company is deprived of its property without due process of law and is denied the equal protection
of the law, in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment to
the federal Constitution.
This conclusion, which necessarily results from the facts,
is not seriously challenged, but a reversal of the decree
below is sought on the ground that the company, prior to
filing its bill, had not exhausted its legislative remedies.
The argument seems to be that the second proposed schedule of rates, filed while the first was pending, purported
to cancel the first schedule; that the order putting into

SMITH v. ILL. BELL TEL. CO.
587

Upinion of the Court.

force the rates in the first senedule was in effect a finding
against the second and put an end to it; that no legal
application for an increase of rates has since been made:
tlierefore, when the suit was brought, nothing was before
the commission upon which that body could lawfully act.
The short answer is that the commission, after disposing
of the first schedule, had uniformly treated the second as
pending; had held hearings and made interlocutory orders
in respect of it; had entered an order for its permanent
suspension; after reversal by the state court on appeal,
by which tribunal it was regarded as properly pending,
had restored it to the docket for further proceedings; and
had held further hearings. To say now that all this shall
go for naught and that the company must institute another and distinct proceeding, would be to put aside substance for needless ceremony.
It thus appears that, following the decree 6f the state
court reversing the permanent order in respect of the
second schedule and directing further proceedings, the
commission, for a period of two years, remained practically
dormant; and nothing in the circumstances suggests that
it had any intention of going further with the matter.
For this apparent neglect on the part of the commission,
no reason or excuse has been given; and it is just to say
that, without explanation, its conduct evinces an entire
lack of that acute appreciation of justice which should
characterize a tribunal charged with the delicate and important duty of regulating the rates of a public utility
with fairness to its patrons, but with a hand quick to
preserve it from confiscation. Property may be as effectively taken by long-continued and unreasonable delay
in putting an end to confiscatory rates as by an express
affirmance of them; and where, in that respect, such a
state of facts is disclosed as we have here, the injured
public service company is not required indefinitely to
await a decision of the rate-making tribunal before apply-

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U.S.

ing to a federal court for equitable relief. The facts,
which the motion to dismiss conceded, present a far
stronger case for such relief than any of the cases with
which this court dealt in Okla. Gas Co. v. Russell, 261
U. S. 290, 293; Prendergastv. N. Y. Tel. Co., 262 U. S.
43, 49; Pacific Tel. Co. v. Kuykendall, supra, p. 204; and
Banton v. Belt Line Ry., 268 U. S. 413, 415.
Some complaint is made to the effect that the decree
attempts to bind persons not parties to the suit, including thousands of silbscribers, and to prohibit appellants
from enforcing in the future any legislative remedy for
excessive charges, hereafter imposed, however unreason
able they may be. As to the first branch of the complain
it is only necessary to say that the commission represents
the public and especially the subscribers, and they are
properly bound by the decree. In re Engelhard,231 U. S.
646, 651. As to the other objection, there is nothing in
the decree, rightly construed, which attempts to curtail or
could curtail the legislative or rate-making powers of
appellants.to proceed hereafter under the state law, subject to such limitations, if any, as may be required by the
doctrines of res judicata, ordinarily applicable in such
cass.
Decree affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.,

