OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
270 U. S

Syllabus.

to be brought out before the jury at once, even though two
indictments were involved, without denying due process
of law. If any question was made at the trial as to the
loss of the right to challenge twenty jurors on each indictment, the only side of it that would be open here.,
would be again the question of constitutional power
That Pennsylvania could limit the challenges on each indictment to ten does not admit doubt.
There was not the shadow of a ground for interference
with this sentence by habeas corpus. Frank v. Mangum.
237 U. S. 309, 326. Extraordinary cases where there is
only the form of a court under the domination of
a mob, as was alleged to be the fact in Moore v. Dempsey,
261 U. S. 86, offer no analogy to this. In so delicate a
matter as interrupting the regular administration of the
criminal law of the State by this kind of attack, too much
discretion cannot be used, and it must be realized that
it can be done only upon definitely and narrowly limited
grounds.
Order reversed.
FIDELITY AND DEPOSIT COMPANY OF MARY-

LAND v. TAFOYA, CHAIRMAN,

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF NEW MEXICO.

No. 88.

Argued January 7, 1926.-Decided March 15, 1926.

1. Where a bill for an injunction alleges that threatened action by
defendant state executive officials, under a state statute as construed by them, will deprive plaintiff of rights under the Fourteenth Amendment, jurisdiction of the District Court does not
depend on presence of an allegation that the statute itself is unconstitutional, since the Amendment binds the State in all its branches.
P. 434..
2. A State cannot use its power to exclude a foreign corporation
from local business as a means of accomplishing that which is for-

FIDELITY & DEPOSIT CO. v. TAFOYA.
426

427

Argument for Appellant.

bidden to the State, such as the regulation of conduct in another
jurisdiction. P. 434.
3. Section 2820, of the 1915 Code of New Mexico, as amended in
1921, which purports to make it "unlawful for any insurance
company authorized to do business in New Mexico ....
to pay,
....
either directly or indirectly, any fee, brokerage or other

emolument of any nature to any person, firm or corporation not
a resident of the State of New Mexico, for the obtaining, placing
or writing of any policy or policies of insurance covering risks in
New Mexico," and provides that any insurance'company violating
it shall have its certificates of authority to do business in the State
suspended for not less than one year, the suspensiofi to be removed
only upon a written pledge that the section will be observed,-held,
unconstitutional. P. 433.
4. The repeal of this section did not render this case moot, since, in
view of a provision of the state constitution that "no act of the
Legislature shall affect the right or remedy of either party ....
in any pending case," it is uncertain whether the plaintiff might
not still be held liable to lose its license. P. 433.
Reversed.

APPEAL from
missed the bill
Commission of
of the plaintiff

the decree of the District Court which disin a suit to enjoin the State Corporation
New Mexico from suspending the license
to do business in that State.

Mr. Charles Markell, with whom Mr. C. J. Roberts
was on the brief, for appellant.
The bill specifically states the defendants' construction
and application of § 2820 and denies the constitutionality
of § 2820 as so construed and applied by the defendants.
The defendants do not deny, on the contrary, they assert
the correctness of, their construction. The lower court
expressly sustained the defendants' construction of the
statute and the constitutionality of the statute as so construed. The jurisdiction of the lower court and of this
Court, however, does not depend upon whether the defendants construed correctly or misconstrued the statute
in question. Home Tel. & Tel. Co. v. Los Angeles, 227
U. S. 278; Raymond v. Chicago Tr. Co., 207 U. S. 20;

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for Appellant.

270 U. S.

Ex parte Young, 209 U. S. 123; Cuyahoga Power Co. v.
Akron, 240 U. S. 462; Meyer v. Nebraska, 262 U. S. 390;
Terral v. Burke Co., 257 U. S. 529; Herndon v. C. R. I.
& P. Ry. Co., 218 U. S. 135; Harrison v. St. L. & S. F.*
R. R., 232 U. S. 318; Wisconsin v. P. & R. Coal Co., 241
U. S. 329; Adams v. Tanner, 244 U. S. 590; Terrace v.
Thompson, 263 U. S. 197.
The State of New Mexico cannot constitutionally revoke a foreign corporation's license to do business for the
sole reason that the corporation has exercised a constitutional right, e. g., a right guaranteed it by the due
process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. Doyle v.
Cont. Ins. Co., 94 U. S. 535; Western Union Tel. Co. v.
Kansas, 216 U. S. 1; Pullman Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S.
56; Ludwig v. Western Union Tel. Co., 216 U. S. 146;
Terral v. Burke Co., 257 U. S. 520; Bank of Augusta v.
Earle, 13 Pet. 519; Ins. Co. v. French, 18 How. 404. The
"constitutionality of unconstitutional conditions " was
not involved in Paul v. Virginia, 8 Wall. 168. The principle of Lafayette Insurance Co. v. French, 18 How. 404,
followed and applied in Insurance Co. v. Morse, 20 Wall.
445, was not shaken or qualified by any decision of this
Court prior to Doyle v. Cont. Ins. Co., 94 U. S. 535. The
Doyle Case was expressly reaffirmed in Security Mut. Life
Ins. Co. v. Prewitt, 202 U. S. 246. It was in effect overruled within four years by the cases of Western Union
Tel. Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 1; Pullman Co. v. Kansas,
216 U. S. 56; and Ludwig v. Western Union Tel. Co., 216
U. S. 146; and has never been revived. In Terral v. Burke
Const. Co., 257 U. S. 529, the Doyle and Prewitt cases
were expressly declared to have been overruled. The
recent cases frorf Western Union Tel. Co. v. Kansas to
Terral v. Burke Const. Co., have by necessary implication
overruled all other earlier cases consistent with the Doyle
and Prewitt cases and inconsistent with this later line
of cases. The decisions and opinions of this Court in

FIDELITY & DEPOSIT CO. v. TAFOYA.
426

429

.Argument for Aplellees.

these Kansas cases in effect necessarily overruled the
Doyle and Prewitt cases and the Horn Silver Mining
Company Case, 143 U. S. 305, though the majority
opinions did not expressly so state.
The right of the foreign corporation -under the due
process clause is no more, and certainly no less, sacred
than rights under the commerce clause, the right of removal to a federal court, or other constitutional rights.
Baltic Mining Co. v. Massachusetts, 231 U. S. 68; Herndon,v. C. R. I. & P. Ry., 218 U. S. 135; Harrisonv. St. L.
& S. F. R. R., 232 U. S. 318; New York Life Ins. Co. v.
Head, 234 U. S. 149; Looneyv. Crane Co., 245 U. S. 178;
Int. Paper Co. v. Massachusetts, 246 U. S. 135; N. Y.
Life Ins. Co. v. Dodge, 246 U. S. 357; Western Union Tel.
Co. v. Foster, 247 U. S. 105; Frick v. Pennsylvania, 268
U.. S. 473; Natl. Ins. Co. v. Wanberg, 260 U. S.
71; Terral v. Const. Co., 257 U. S. 529. The State
cannot (consistently with due process of law) regulate
or prohibit anything done outside New Mexico by
a foreign corporation, e. g., payment of commissions or
other " wages" to insurance agents outside New Mexico
for services rendered outside New Mexico. The State
cannot fix-still less prohibit-commissions or other
"wages"
of insurance agents anywhere, within New
Mexico or outside New Mexico: Even if the State
possessed both of these powers, it could not (without
denying the plaintiff the equal protection of the laws)
exercise them in such a way as to prohibit payment of
commissions to agents in other States for lawful services
rendered in other States by them, or to require payment
of commissions fo agents in New Mexico for services not
rendered by them.
Mr. Milton J. Helmick for appellees.
The defendants from the beginning questioned the
jurisdiction of the federal court to entertain complainant's bill on the ground that this is a suit against the

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for Appellees.

270 U. S.

-State. Nowhere is it alleged that the statutes in question
are unconstitutional, but, on the contrary, the appellant
alleges that the constructions given the statutes by the
various state officers are the things which are invalid and
of which appellant complains. It is axiomatic that such
an attempted action is abortive and is in fact an attempted action against the State. Harkraderv. Wadley,
172 U. S 148; Arbuckle v. Blackburn, 113 Fed. 616.
While there is in the bill no direct concession that the
statute itself is valid, yet the failure to allege its invalidity and the fact that appellant bases its complaint
solely and exclusively upon the construction given the
statute by the various state officers is, of course, tantamount to a concession of the validity of the' statute. It
is too clear for argument that a suit against an officer of
the State to enjoin him from instituting prosecutions
under a state statute on the ground that he is proceeding
under an erroneous constrtiction of the law which would
render it invalid and in violation of the Constitution of
the United States, is one, in effect against the State, of
which a federal court is denied jurisdiction by the Eleventh Amendment to the Constitution.
The State has the right to regulate foreign insurance
companies. The courts which have had occasion to apply
the Terral Case, 257 U. S. 529, have almost all confined its
application to the proposition that a State can not interfere with the jurisdiction of a federal court. Central
Union Fire Ins. Co. v. Kelly, 282 Fed. 772; C. M. & St. P.
Ry. v. Schendel, 292 Fed. 326; Maxwell v. Hicks, 294
Fed. 254; Twohy Bros. Co. v. Kennedy, 295 Fed. 462
(dissenting opinion); Foy & Shemwell v. Georgia-Alabama Power Co., 298 Fed. 643. Several cases are to be
found where it is baldly stated that no State can deprive
a foreign corporation of a constitutional right as a condition precedent to doing business within the State.
It may be suggested that perhaps a limited application
of the rule stated in the Terral Case, is deducible from the

FIDELITY & DEPOSIT CO. v. TAFOYA.
426

431

Argument for Appellees.

citation of Paul v. Virginia, 8 Wall. 168 and Hooper v.
California, 155 U. S. 648, with approval, in the case of
National Union Fire Ins. Co. v. Wanberg, 260 U. S. 71.
If the rule of the Terral Case is to be extended to include
every constitutional right, as appellant contends, then it
seems likely that the application of the ' equal protection
of the laws" clause of the Constitution will create a perfect parity between foreign and domestic corporations
resulting in the complete abrogation of the power of the
States to regulate foreign corporations as such. Cf. Commonwealth v. Nutting, 175 Mass. 154.
The New Mexico statutes involved in this appeal do
not in fact requir6 the surrender of any constitutional
right. At least twenty-seven States have resident agent
laws containing compensation features similar to the New
Mexico provision. It has long since been settled that a
State, acting under its power to regulate the insurance
business, may require a foreign insurance company doing
business in the State to maintain a resident agent within
its borders. The reason is not hard to discover. A responsible authorized local person must represent the company and execute its policies as a protection against
fraudulent and worthless contracts. Moreover, in case
of loss, change in rate of premium, mistake in the policy
or bond, transfer of policy, change in risk, and the like,
it is imperative that the citizen have access to some bona
fide representative of the company with power to act, and
bind his principal.
If the State possesses the power to insist upon a resident agent, it likewise possesses the power to make sure
that he be a bona fide agent, and not a mere dummy or
pretended agent. Probably the statutes in question do
nothing more than define a bona fide resident agent, i. e.,
one who receives the commissions on business placed in
the State. This requirement is not for the economic ad-

432

'OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

vantage of the agent, but for the benefit of the public.
Other States impose the requirement in their resident
agent laws that the agent shall maintain his principal
office within the State, as in New Jersey. It is a provision in aid of the law for the purpose of making sure
the agent shall be a bona fide one. The New Jersey law,
like the New Mexico law, in a measure defines what a
resident agent must be,-in New Jersey he must be a
man who actually has his principal office within the State,
while in New Mexico he must be a man who collects the
commission on the premium. Without these two salutary
provisions, it would doubtless turn out that the so-called
resident agents of New Jersey would be New Yorkers
and the so-called resident agents of New Mexico mere
figure heads who would countersign insurance policies and
bonds at so much a signature. The issue, then, as appellees view it, resolves itself into this query; Granting
that the State has a right to insist upon a resident insurance agent, can the State make such other reasonable
requirements to insure that such resident agent shall be
a bona fide one? The compensation requirement of the
New Mexico statute is a fair means of insuring a bona
fide resident agent and enforcing the law as a whole by
rendering it impossible for the insurance company to circumvent the requirement by means of a mere dummy
agent. Commonwealth v. Cutting, 175 Mass. 154; Ferguson v. Tuttle, 112 Atl. 596.
MR. JUSTICE HOLmES

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is a bill in equity brought to prevent the State
Corporation Commission of New Mexico from suspending the right of the plaintiff to do business in that State.
A final decree was entered by which it was declared that
the defendants intend to suspend that right "for the sole

FIDELITY & DEPOSIT CO. v. TAFOYA.

433

Opipion of the Court.

426

reason that the plaintiff has made payments to its agents
in states other than New Mexico in connection with the
procurement of business made, written and placed by
the plaintiff in New Mexico"; that such payments are
unlawful by virtue of § 2820 of the New Mexico Code of
1915, as amended by Chapter 195 of the Laws of 1921,
and that the section, so far as it makes such payments
unlawful and authorizes the suspension because of this,
is constitutional. On this ground the bill was dismissed.
The plaintiffs, contending that the statute as construed.
and applied is contrary to the Fourteenth Amendment,
appealed to this Court.
The statute in qtiestion, § 2820 of the Code of 1915 as
amended in 1921, purports to make it "unlawful for any
insurance company authorized to do business in New
either directly or inMexico
. . to pay, .
directly, any fee, brokerage or other emolument of any
nature to any person, firm or corporation not a resident
of the State of New Mexico, for the obtaining, placing or
writing of any policy or policies of insurance covering
risks in New Mexico. Any insurance company violating
this section shall have its certificates of authority to do
business in the State suspended for not less than one
year "-the suspension to be removed only upon a written pledge that the section will be observed. This section has been repealed by an act of 1925, which substitutes the more moderate requirement that the policy must
be delivered, the premium collected and the full commission retained by an agent in New Mexico, with authority to that agent to employ a licensed non-resident
broker to collect the premiums, &c., and to pay him
within limits. The question has been suggested whether
this repeal does not require us to dismiss the case. But
the Constitution of New Mexico provides that 'no act
of the Legislature shall affect the right or remedy of
. in any pending case.' It is at least
either party .
1100569)°-26----28

OCTOBER TERM, 1925..
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

possible that the state courts might hold that the plaintiff war still liable to lose its license on the old ground.
Therefore it seems to us just that we should proceed to
deal with the further questions raised, as both parties
desire.
It is suggested that the District Court had no jurisdiction because the bill does not allege that the statute is
unconstitutional, but only that the statute as construed
and applied by the defendants is so. But even if the
statute did not plainly purport to justify and require
the threatened action, or if the bill fairly taken did not
import a denial of the constitutionality of the law as
applied to this case, the plaintiff still would be entitled
to come into a Court of the United States to prevent such
an alleged violation of its constitutional rights. Raymond v. Chicago Traction Co., 207 U. S. 20. Home
Telephone & Telegraph Co. v. Los Angeles, 227 U. S. 278.
Cuyahoga River Power Co. v. Akron, 240 U. S. 462.
Coming then to the merits, we assume in favor of the
defendants that the State has the power and constitutional right arbitrarily to exclude the plaintiff without
other reason than that such is its will. But it has been
held a great many times that the most absolute seeming
rights are qualified, and in some circumstances become
wrong. One of the most frequently recurring instances
is when the so-called right is used as part of a scheme
to accomplish a forbidden result. Frick v. Pennsylvania,
268 U. S. 473. American Bank & Trust Co. v. Federal
Reserve Bank of Atlanta, 256 U. S. 350, 358. Badders v.
United States, 240 U. S. 391, 394. United States v. Read, Co., 226 U. S. 324, 357. Tnus the right to exclude a
foreign corporation cannot be L:ed to prt vent it from resorting to a federal court, Terral v. Burke Construction
Co., 257 U. S. 529; or to tax it upon property that by
established principles the State has no power to tax,
Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 1, and

FIDELITY & DEPOSIT CO. v. TAFOYA.
426

435

Opinion of the Court.

other cases in the same volume and later that have followed it; or to interfere with interstate commerce, Sioux
Remedy Co. v. Cope, 235 U. S. 107, 203; Looney v. Crane
Co., 245 U. S. 178, 188. Western Union Telegraph Co. v.
Foster, 247 U. S. 105, 114. A State cannot regulate the
conduct of a foreign railroad corporation in another jurisdiction, even though the Company has tracks and does
business in the State making the attempt. New York, Lake
Erie & Western R. R. Co. v. Pennsylvania, 153 U. S. 628,
646.
The case last cited was one of an attempt to regulate
the corporation's payments in another State. By the
same principle on 6ven stronger grounds the corporation
cannot be prevented from employing and paying those
whom it needs for its business outside the State. The
difficulty was fully appreciated by the counsel for the
appellee and he therefore sought to limit' the generality
of the words, at least in the case of agents, and to make
out that the object was to prevent the use of dummy
agents in the State. It was suggested thai agents were
paid by commissions at well known conventional rates,
and that the statute meant to forbid the dividing of these
commissions, and in that way to prevent the work being
done and paid for elsewhere, while nominal agents in
New Mexico were paid small sums for the use of their
names. In short, it is said the purpose was to secure
responsible men to represent the Company on the spot.
But, whether such an interpretation would save the act
or not, it is impossible to limit it in that way. It forbids
the payment of any emolument of any nature to any
person for the obtaining, placing or writing of any policy
covering risks in New Mexico. The words go beyond any
legitimate interest of the State, and although the decree
is based only on payments to agents it does not declare
that the payments thus made prevented the payment of
appropriate commissions to the agents in the State nor
does the statute limit its prohibition in that way.

436

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.

McREYNOLDS, BRANDEIs

and

SANFORD,

JJ., dissenting.

270 U. S.

The determination of the Commission to suspend the
plaintiff purported to be based upon a letter written.by
it in reply to a notice. In this letter it appeared only
that agents or branch offices in other States were paid for
services of value by commission on such basis as was
agreed xpon outside of New Mexico, but not that there
was in any case a deduction from appropriate commissions inside the State. The threat and the decree, therefore, test the validity of the statute in its extreme application and furnish no ground for an attempt to read it as
meaning less than it says. See further Palmetto Fire Insurance Co. v. Beha, 13 Fed. (2d) 500; St. Louis Compress Co. v. Arkansas, 260 U. S. 346.
Decree reversed.

The separate opinion of Mr.

JUsTICE

MCREYNOLDS.

This cause was begun January 8," 1924. Defendants
were the members of the State Corporation Commission
and the Bank Examiner. Section 2814, Code of New
Mexico, 1915, forbade the carrying on of business within
the State by any insurance company "unless it shall procure from the Superintendent of Insurance a certificate
stating that the requirements of the laws of this State
have been complied with and authorizing it to do. business." These certificates expired annually on the last day
of February. In 1921 the powers and duties of the Superintendent of Insurance were transferred to the Bank Examiner under general control and supervision of the
Corporation Commission.
Section 2820 of the Code, as amended, provided that
no foreign insurance company shall transact business in
the State except through duly appointed resident agents;
declared it unlawful to pay any emolument to a nonresident for obtaining policies covering risks therein; and
authorized the exclusion of any company which failed to
observe this inhibition.

FIDELITY & DEPOSIT CO. v. TAFOYA.
426

MCRLMYNOLDS, BRANDEIS and

SANFORD,

437

JJ., dissenting.

The bill alleges that, although the complainant had
been duly licensed to transact business in New Mexico
for many years, defendants were threatening to suspend
the license therefor because of supposed violations of
§ 2820. It asks a decree declaring that section unconstitutional insofar as payments to nonresidents for procuring insurance were prohibited; and that defendants
be restrained from attempting to revoke or refusing to
renew the license certificate.
The act effective March 20, 1925, codified the insurance
laws of the State; expressly repealed former statutes regulating the business; transferred the powers of the Bank
Examiner to the Corporation Commission, and charged
the Superintendent of the Department of Insurance with
general administration of the law. It sets up an entirely
new system of control and contains no provision concerning payments to outside agents like the' one challenged by complainant. It provides: "Upon the application of any insurance company for a license to transact
an insurance business in the State of New Mexico, the
Superintendent shall immediately satisfy himself that the
said company

.

.

.

has

.

.

.

complied with all

the . . . requirements of this Act, and shall thereupon be obligated to issue a license to the said company
authorizing it to transact the forms of insurance permitted under its articles of incorporation and authorized under this Act for any one insurance company to
transact."
The bill questions the validity of a statute which was
repealed in 1925. There is no effective remedy which this
or any other court can now grant under its allegations
and prayers. The cause has become moot and should
be treated accordingly.
MR. JUSTICE

BRANDEIS

concur in this opinion.

and MR. JUSTICE SANFORD

