OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
270 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ASHE, WARDEN OF THE STATE PENITENTIARY,

v. UNITED STATES

EX REL.

VALOTTA.

APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

No. 521.

Argued March 5, 1926.-Decided March 15, 1926.

Relator, having been indicted in the state court separately for each
of two closely connected murders, was given a single trial on both
indictments, in which he was deprived of the full number of challenges he would have had if tried separately on each. Conviction
on both indictments was sustained by the state supreme court.
He was discharged by habeas corpus in the federal District Court.
Held:
1. The state trial court had jurisdiction even if the joinder was
contrary to state law. P. 425.
2. The decision of the state supreme court on state law, with
respect to the trial and the challenges, was not re-examinable. Id.
3. The joint trial of the two charges, and limitations of the challenges, was within the constitutional power of the State. Id.
4. The interference by habeas corpus was unwarranted. P. 426:
2 Fed. (2d) 735, reversed.
APPEAL from an order of the District Court, in habeas
corpus, discharging the relator Valotta from the custody
of the appellant, by whom he was held for execution of a
death sentence pursuant to a judgment of a state court.

Mr. James 0. Campbell, Deputy Attorney General of
Pennsylvania, with whom Messrs. George W. Woodruff,
Attorney General, Samuel H. Gdardner, and Harry A.
Estep were on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. George R. Wallace, with whom Mr. Franklin A.
Ammon was on the brief, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the Court.

This is an appeal from an order on a writ of habeas
discharging the relator, Valotta, from the custody

corpus

ASHE v. VALOTTA.
424

Opinion of the Court.

of the appellant by whom he was held under a sentence of
death. Valotta shot a man in a street brawl-we will
assume, in circumstances that suggest considerable excuse-and then killed a policeman who pursued him,
within a short distance from the first act. He was indicted separately for the murder of each man, tried in
a Court of Pennsylvania, found guilty of murder in the
second degree for the first killing and guilty of murder in
the first degree for the second, and was sentenced ta
death. The judgment was affirmed by the Supreme Court
of the State. (279 Pa. 84.)
No writ of error or certiorari was applied for, Valotta
having no funds and his counsel being ignorant of the
statute authorizing proceedings in such cases without prepayment of fees or costs. But when the time for such
proceedings had gone by, a writ of habeas corpus was obtained from a judge of the District Court of the United
States with the result that we have stated. The grounds
of the order seem to have been that Valotta was tried upon
two indictments for felony at the same time and was deprived of the full number of challenges that he would
have had if he had been tried separately upon each.
There is no question that the State Court had jurisdiction. But the much abused suggestion is made that
it lost jurisdiction by trying the two indictments together.
Manifestly this would not be true even if the trial was
not warranted by law. But the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania has said that there was no mistake of law, and
so far as the law of Pennsylvania was concerned it was
most improper to attempt to go behind the decision of
the Supreme Court, to construe statutes as opposed to
it and to hear evidence that the practice of the State had
been the other way. The question of constitutional power
is the only one that could be raised, if even that were open
upon this collateral attack, and as to that we cannot
doubt that Pennsylvania could authorize the whole story

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
270 U. S

Syllabus.

to be brought out before the jury at once, even though two
indictments were involved, without denying due process
of law. If any question was made at the trial as to the
loss of the right to challenge twenty jurors on each indictment, the only side of it that would be open here.,
would be again the question of constitutional power
That Pennsylvania could limit the challenges on each indictment to ten does not admit doubt.
There was not the shadow of a ground for interference
with this sentence by habeas corpus. Frank v. Mangum.
237 U. S. 309, 326. Extraordinary cases where there is
only the form of a court under the domination of
a mob, as was alleged to be the fact in Moore v. Dempsey,
261 U. S. 86, offer no analogy to this. In so delicate a
matter as interrupting the regular administration of the
criminal law of the State by this kind of attack, too much
discretion cannot be used, and it must be realized that
it can be done only upon definitely and narrowly limited
grounds.
Order reversed.
FIDELITY AND DEPOSIT COMPANY OF MARY-

LAND v. TAFOYA, CHAIRMAN,

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF NEW MEXICO.

No. 88.

Argued January 7, 1926.-Decided March 15, 1926.

1. Where a bill for an injunction alleges that threatened action by
defendant state executive officials, under a state statute as construed by them, will deprive plaintiff of rights under the Fourteenth Amendment, jurisdiction of the District Court does not
depend on presence of an allegation that the statute itself is unconstitutional, since the Amendment binds the State in all its branches.
P. 434..
2. A State cannot use its power to exclude a foreign corporation
from local business as a means of accomplishing that which is for-

