CHAMBERLAIN MACH. WORKS v. U. S.
339

347

Couuisel for Parties.

used, as relating to the fraudulent causing.of pecuniary or
pr'operty loss. And this meaning is emphasized by other
provisions of the section in which the word "defraud"
is used in reference to the obtaining of money or other
property from the Government by false claims, vouchers
and the like; and by the context of the entire section,
which deals with the wrongful obtaining of money and
other property of the Government, with no reference to
the impairment Or obstruction of its governmental functions.
We hence conclude that the indictment did not show,
within the meaning of § 35 of the Penal Code, either the
purpose of obtaining the approval of a "claim upon, or
against" the United States and the Treasury Department,
or the purpose and intent of "defrauding" them. The
demurrer was rightly sustained; and the judgment of the
District Court is
Affirmed.
CHAMBERLAIN MACHINE WORKS v. UNITED
STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 123.

Argued January 12, 13, 1926.-Decided March 1, 1926.

A petition relying upon fraud and coercion to overcome a release of
the claim sued on, must state distinctly the particular acts, specifying by whom and in what manner they were perpetrated, so that
the court may see that, if proven, they would warrant the settingaside of the settlement.
59 Ct. Cls. 972, affirmed.
APPEAL from a judgment of the Court of Claims dismissing a petition on demurrer.

Mr. Raymond M. Hudson, with whom Mr. Burton E.
Sweet was on the brief, for appellant.

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

Assistant to the Attorney General Donovan, with whom
Solicitor General Mitchell was on the brief, for the United
States.
MR. JUSTICE SANFORD

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The Chamberlain Machine Works filed its petition in
the Court of Claims to recover compensation for the partial performance of a war contract for the machining of
steel shells, which had been cancelled by the United States
btfore completion, pursuant to th terms of the contract.
The petition was dismissed on demurrer, without opinion.
59 Ct. Cls. 972. The appeal was allowed in June, 1924.
The petition and an exhibit thereto disclosed that the
claim was originally prosecuted in the War Department,
under the Dent Act, in various proceedings before the
Ordinance Section of the Claims Board, the Board of
Contract Adjustment,' and the Appeal Section of the
Claims Board; 2 and that the Secretary of War made an
award to the petitioner of $41,300.05, "in full adjustment,
payment, and discharge" of the contract, which was accepted by the petitioner, in writing, in "full satisfaction
of any and all claims or demands" which it had or might
have pertaining to, growing out of, or incident to the
contract.
The petition sought to recover on the original contract,
despite the settlement made more than three years before.
It alleged, broadly, that this settlement was iniquitous
and unjust, and not the voluntary act of the petitioner,
but was secured by "frahd" of the officers of the War
Department in the handling of the claim, by "continued
brow-beating," and by "coercion" through which they
"literally forced" the petitioner to take the sum offered.
1 6 Dec. War Dept. 242.

28

Dec. War Dept. 298.

FLEISCHMANN CO. v. UNITED STATES.
347

349

Syllabus.

The general allegations of "fraud" and "coercion"
were mere conclusions of the pleader; and were not admitted by the demurrer. Fogg v. Blair, 139 U. S. 118,
127. To show a cause of action it was necessary that the
petition state distinctly the particular acts of fraud and
-coercion relied 'on, specifying by whom and in what
manner they were perpetrated, with such definiteness and
reasonable certainty that the court might see that, if
proved, they would warrant the setting aside of the settlement. See Stearns v. Page, 7 How. 818, 829; PerkinsCampbell Co. v. United States, 264 U. S. 213, 218; Cairo
Railroad v. United States, 267 U. S. 350, 352. The petition contained no such specific allegations; and since its
vague and general averments did not overcome the effect
of the release, the demurrer was properly sustained. Se6
St. Louis Railroad v. United States, 267 U. S. 346, 350.
The judgment of the Court of Claims is
Affirmed.

FLEISCHMANN CONSTRUCTION COMPANY ET AL.
v. UNITED STATES TO THE USE OF FORSBERG
ET AL.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE J'OURTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 50.

Argued October 15, 1925.-Decided March 1, 1926.

1. A bill of exceptions is not valid as to any matter that was not
excepted to at the trial, and can not incorporate into the record
nunc pro tune, as of the time when an exception should have been
taken, one which in fact was not then taken. P. 356.
2. In a law case tried by the District Court without a jury, (Rev.
Stats. §§ 649, 700,) where there are no special findings of fact,
and no exceptions to rulings of law taken during the trial %nd
preserved by bill of exceptions, questions relating to matters of
fact or conclusions of law embodied in the general finding are not
reviewable. P. 355.

