124

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Syllabus.

270 U. S.

answer, reply or demurrer which placed him in any
more favorable attitude for asking the writ.
This conclusion leads us to affirm the judgment of the
Court of Appeals.

Affirmed.
UNITED STATES v. SWIFT & COMPANY.
SWIFT & COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
APPEALS FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS

Nos. 288 and 289.

Submitted Novcmber 24,
March 1, 1926.

1925.-Decided

1. A finding by the Court of Claims that a general who signed a
contract for army supplies was the representative of the Quartermaster's Department in that regard, held conclusive on this Court
as a finding of fact, or of mixed law and fact, where the result
involved consideration of apparent conflicts of jurisdiction of
many food supply agencies during the war, and of orders from
the War Department and Quartermaster's Department, the effect
of which was limited in practice, all of which were before the Court
of Claims. P. 137.
2. Orders for the purchase of bacon for the Army, accepted by the
seller and signed by the proper representatives of the Quartermaster's Department and the Food Administration, held authorized in writing on behalf of the Government. P. 138.
3. The authority of the representative of the Packing House Products
Branch of the Subsistence Division of the Quartermaster General's
Office, at Chicago, to purchase meat products for the Army, which
was repeatedly exercised and recognized, was not affected by the
assignment of another officer as the purchasing and contracting
officer for the Packing House Products and Produce Division of the
office of the Depot Quartermaster at Chicago or his subsequent
transfer to Director of Purchase and Storage. P. 138.
4. Acceptance of an offer in part becomes a contract when the offerer
accepts the modification. P. 139.
5. It is not essential to a contract of sale that it fix a price. P. 139.
6. An agreement reached by correspondence between a meat packer
and representatives of the Quartermaster's Department and the
Food Administration for the delivery of bacon in three successive

UNITED STATES v. SWIFT & CO.
124

.125

Counsel for Parties.

months, a specified quantity in each, held a contract of the Government to take the total quantity, and not preliminary negotiations, although the amounts for the first two months were subsequently covered by more formal- contracts fixing the price, which
could not be done in advance. P. 141.
7. Under the Act of March 4, 1915, providing that a contract not
to be performed within sixty days and exceeding $500 in amount,
where made by the Quartermaster General or by officers of the
Quartermaster Corps, shall be reduced to writing and signed by
the contracting parties, a contract with the Quartermaster's Department may be made by an exchange of correspondence, properly signed, and need not be in one instrument signed by both
parties at the end thereof. Rev. Stats. § 3744, if to be construed
otherwise, is modified by the later enactment. P. 142.
8. The fact that a government contract was signed in the name of
the contracting officer by a subordinate does not render it invalid,.
where such execution accorded with the practice of the office and
was authorized, and the binding effect of the contract recognized,
by the contracting officer. P. 144.
9. In the absence of a market value standard, a vendor of goods
which the Government declines to accept under its contract, is
entitled to the difference between the contract price and the
amount realized by the vendor through resale made in good faith
with diligent effort. P. 148.
10. The fact that the vendor shipped part of the goods to Europe
and resold them there, held no reason for denying recovery according to this rule, good faith being evident, with nothing to*
show that a better price could have been realized elsewhere.
P. 149.
59 Ct. Cls. 364, affirmed with modification.

CRoss appeals from a judgment of the Court of Claims
allowing recovery of damages resulting from the Government's refusal to take goods under its contract, but limiting this to the part resold by the claimant in this
country, and refusing relief as to the part which it resold
abroad.
Solicitor General Mitchell, Assistant to the Attorney
General Donovan, and Messrs. Abram F. Myers and
Rush H. Williamson, Special Assistants to the Attorney
General, were on the brief, for the United States.

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

Mr. G. CarrollTodd submitted for Swift & Co. Messrs.
Albert H. Veeder, Henry Veeder, R. C. McManus, Connor B. Shaw and P. L. Holden were also on the brief.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE TAFT

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is a suit to recover damages for the loss caused to
Swift & Company by the refusal of the United States to
accept a quantity of finished and unfinished army bacon
ordered by competent authority for delivery in March,
1919. The only ground for not accepting it was that the
need had been removed by the unexpected rapidity of demobilization. The claim was first presented to the War
Department under the Act of March 2, 1919, 40 Stat.
1272, known as the Dent Act. It was denied by the Board
of Contract Adjustment of the War Department, on the
ground that the agreement under which the bacon was
produced was not concluded until after November 12,
1918, the Dent Act applying only to agreements entered
into prior to that date. The Secretary of War affirmed
this decision. The petition in the Court of Claims alleged
that the liability of the Government was lawfully established by a written contract properly signed and executed,
binding the United States,
The Court of Claims found that the contract was entered into in due and regular form. and could be enforced
under the general jurisdiction of the Court of Claims, and
that, even if there were defects in the contract, as the
contract had been fully performed in accord with the
terms of the contract as subsequently modified by the
parties, the alleged defects were immaterial. It accordingly gave judgment for $1,077,386.30, being the difference between the contract price for the bacon ready for
delivery in accordance with the contract and the proceeds
of its sale. In addition to this amount, Swift & Company
sought damages in the amount of $212,216.69 for more

UNITED STATES v. SWIFT & CO.
124

Opinion of the Court.

than one million pounds of salted bellies which had been
cured but had not been smoked and made into bacon, and
which were on hand at the time the contract was cancelled. A large part of these were sold in France at a very
large reduction. The Court of Claims held that by attempting to sell this material abroad, Swift & Company
had taken a speculative course and could not hold the
Government for the difference between the contract price
and the proceeds of sale. Swift & Company filed a cross
appeal on this issue, and that is before us.
The Government in the Court of Claims set up a counter-claim against Swift & Company for $1,571,882, made
up of alleged improper and illegal charges presented by
the plaintiff to the defendant on account of army bacon
delivered from September, 1918, to February, 1919, which
were paid by the Government by mistake to Swift & Company in the settlement of bills and accounts so presented.
The Court of Claims found that it was not shown to the
satisfaction of the court that any improper or illegal
charges had been made or paid by mistake, or that any
misrepresentation or concealment was practiced by Swift
& Company, to the detriment of the Government in the
settlement. The Government. appealed from this rejection of the counter-claim, but does not press its appeal.
The correspondence upon which Swift & Company asserts the existence of a valid contract in writing between
the parties is contained in the sixteenth finding of the
Court of Claims:
"XVI.
"On November 9, 1918, a conference was held on the
call of General Kniskern at which he and Major Skiles, for
the Government, were present and representatives of the
seven large packers, including Swift & Co., for the purpose of providing allotments of bacon and other meat
products for the months of January, February, and
March, 1919. The quantity of bacon asked for for the

128

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

three months stated was 60,000,000 pounds, 30,000,000
pounds each of Serials 8 and 10.
"On November 12, 1918, Swift & Co. sent to the general
depot of the Quartermaster Corps at Chicago the following communication:
"'Swift & Company,
Union Stock Yards,
Chicago, November 12, 1918.
"'War Department,
General Depot of the QuartermasterCorps,
1819 West 39th Street, Chicago, Illinois.
"'Gentlemen:
(Attention Maj. Skiles).
"'Referring meeting in your office Saturday, November
9th, please be advised we offer for delivery during January, February, and March, 1919:
17, 500, 000 lbs. serial 10 bacon and
4, 000, 000 lbs. serial 8 bacon.
21,500, 000 lbs.

"'We offer for delivery each month as shown under:
January,
February,
March,
Total,

Serial # 10
6, 000,000
5, 500,000
6,000,000

Serial # 8
1,400, 000
1,200,000
1,400,000

17, 500,000

4, 000,000

"'You will note we are offering a larger proportion of
serial #10 than of serial #8 bacon. This because we
have gone to great expense in equipping canning rooms
at Chicago, Kansas City, and Boston on the understanding that you very much preferred serial #10 bacon to
serial #8.
The amount serial 10 given above is the minimum amount required to enable us to operate our canning
rooms at fair capacity. If necessary we are willing to
have our offers Serial 8 bacon increased and serial 10
decreased proportionately to the extent you find necessary

UNITED STATES v. SWIFT & CO.
Opinion of the Court.

124

bearing in mind that we will appreciate as liberal a proportion of serial #10 bacon as possible.
"' Will you kindly advise if we shall figure to put down
above amounts for delivery as shown. After receipt of
such advice we will furnish you with statement of
amounts we will put in cure at each plant.
"'Yours respectfully,
"'Swift & Company,
"' Per GES, Jr.
"'Prov. Dept. JH-JL.
"'United States Food Administration License No.
G-09753.'
"On November 26, 1918, the following communication
was sent to the Chicago office of the Food Administration
for the attention of Major Roy:
"'(War Department, office of the Quartermaster General, Packing House Products Branch, Subsistence Division, 1819 West 39th Street, Chicago, Ill.)
'Subsistence.
"'431 P & S-PC.
"'November 26, 1918.
"'From: Officer in charge, Packing House Products
Branch, Subsistence Division, office Director of Purchase
jnd Storage.
"'To: United States Food Administration 757 Conway
Bldg., Chicago, Ill. Attention Major E. L. Roy.
"'Subject: Allotments-Bacori and canned meats.
"' 1. In connection with the requirements of this officecanned meats and bacon-for the months of January,
February, and March, 1919, you are requested, please, to
make allotments to the various packers of the items in
the quantities and for delivery as is indicated below:
"'Swift & Company, serial 10 bacon, January, 6,000,000 lbs.
"' Swift & Company, serial 10 bacon, February, 5,500,000 lbs.
100569*-26--9

130

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

"'Swift & Company, serial 10 bacon, March, 6,000,000
lbs.'
(There follows names of 17 other packers followed by
stated amounts of different products for each of the three
months.)
"'2. It is requested that packers be informed at the
earliest practical date allotments made to them, in order,
(sic), that they can make necessary arrangements for the
procurement of tins, boxes, and other equipment, as well
as to know the quantities of green product it will be
necessary for them to put in cure during December to
apply on later deliveries.
"'3. Please send copy of the official allotments to this
office for our records.
By authority of the Director of Purchase and Storage:
"'A. D. Kniskern,
"BrigadierGeneral, Q. M. Corps, in Charge.
"'By 0. W.'Menge,
"'2nd Lieut., Q. M. Corps."'
"'OWM: JDW.'
"On December 3, 1918, the Food Administration, by
Major Roy, with the approval of the chief of the Meat
Division, whose assistant he was, issued the following:
"'Dec. 3.
"'D. C. P. #8. 2187.
"'From: U. S. Food Administration, Meat Division,
Swift & Company.
"'To: U. S.Yards, Chicago, Ill.
"'Subject:
"' 1. On requisition of the Packing House Products
Branch, Subsistence Division, office of Quartermaster
General, 1819 W. 39th Street, Chicago, Ill., you have been
allotted for delivery during the month ofProduct
Quantity
Price
January, 1919, bacon serial #10; 6,000,000 lbs.
February, 1919, bacon serial #10; 5,500,000 lbs.
March, 1919, bacon serial #10; 6,000,000 lbs.

To be determined
later

UNITED STATES v. SWIFT & CO.
124

Opinion of the Court.

"'2. The above to be in accordance with Q. M. C.
Form 120 and amendments thereto.
"' 3. For any further information regarding this allotment apply to the Packing House Products Branch, Subsistence Division, office of the Quartermaster General,
1819 W. 39th St., Chicago, Ill.
"'United States Food Administration,
"'Meat Division,
"'By E. L. Roy.'
"Major E. L. Roy, Quartermaster Corps, National
Army, then a captain, was by orders of the Chief of Staff,
dated July 22, 1918, directed to proceed to Chicago and
report to the depot quartermaster for assignment to temporary duty with the Food Administration. He became
assistant to the chief of the Meat Division of the Food
Administration in charge of the Chicago office of that
division and remained with the Food Administration in
that capacity until his resignation on December 10, 1918,
following his discharge from the Army.
"Two copies of this notice were sent to Swift & Co.
on one of which was stamped the words 'Accepted,' followed by this instruction: 'To be signed and returned to
Meat Division, 11 W. Washington St., Chicago.'
"Swift & Co. indicated its acceptance by writing below
the word 'Accepted' the following: 'Swift & Company,
By G. E. S. Jr., 12/11/18', and returned this copy to the
Food Administration. The price was left for later determination because of the possible fluctuation in the basic
price, that is the price of hogs.
"A copy of this notice was sent to the packing-house
products branch of the subsistence division, office of
Director of Purchase and Storage, at Chicago, and on
December 10, 1918, the following communication was
sent to Swift & Co.:
"'(War Department, office of the Quartermaster General, Packing House Products Branch, Subsistence Division, 1819 West 39th Street, Chicago, Ill.)

OCTOBE'R TERM, 1925.
270 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

"'December 10, 1918.
"'Address reply to Depot Quartermaster. Marked for
attention Div. 1-1-b, and refer to File No. 431.5 P & SPC.

"'From: Officer in charge Packing House Products Br.,
Subsistence Div., office Director of Purchase and Storage.
"'To: Swift & Co., Union Stock Yards, Chicago, Ill.
"'Subject: Bacon Serial 10, January, February, and
March.
"'1. In connection with the offers you made to this
office on bacon, serial 10, for delivery during the months
of January, February and March, you will please find indicated be'ow the schedules of (eliveries this office requests you to make:
6,000,000 lbs.
5, 500, 000 lbs.
6, 000, 000 lbs.

January,
February,
March,

"'2. In order that proper arrangements can be made
and all concerned informed accordingly, you are further
requested to advise this office by return mail where you
contemplate putting up these allotments.
"'By authority of the Director of Purchase and
Storage.
"'A. D. Kniskern,
"'Brigadier General, Q. M. Corps,
Officer in Charge.

By 0. W. Menge,
2nd Lieut., Q. M. Corps.'
"'OWM: MJB.'"

"Serial No. 10 bacon was prepared according to Army
specification which was packed in cans, the cans being
then packed in boxes. Serial No. 8 differed in that it
was packed in boxes but not canned."
Upon receiving these orders, Swift & Company directed
its buyers to buy hogs. From that time on purchases
were conducted daily so that suitable bellies were pre-

UNITED STATES v. SWIFT & CO.
124

Opinion of the Court.

pared for January and February deliveries, and on January 13, 1919, the first bellies were put in cure for March,
1919, delivery.
The objections by the Government to the documents
submitted on behalf of Swift & Company as written evidence of a contract, are, first, that Government officers
cbnducting the correspondence had no authority to make
it; second, that the documents do not contain the necessary terms to constitute a contract, in that they do not
show the place for the performance of the contract, and
do not fix the price of the bacon to be delivered; third,
they do not show a real agreement between the parties,
but were merely preliminary negotiations and were never
merged in a written contract; and, fourth, that they do
not comply with Revised Statutes, § 3744, in the form of
contract required in such cases.
First. The officers whose names are attached to the
papers on behalf of the Government are Brigadier General A. D. Kniskern, Quartermaster Corps, and Major
E. L. Roy, Quartermaster Corps, assigned to temporary
duty with the Food Administration.
The finding of the Court of Claims in respect of General Kniskern's authority is as follows:
"The furnishing of adequate meat supplies for the Army
was within the authority and duty of the Acting Quartermaster General and afterwards within his authority and
duty as Director of Purchase and Storage. General Kniskern' as depot quartermaster at Chicago, was the authorized representative of the Acting Quartermaster General
in the purchase of meat supplies and, while subject to
any specific instructions which the Acting Quartermaster
General might see fit to give him, his duty was to supply
the needs, and specific authority as to each purchase was
not required. There was in the office of the Quartermaster General a subsistence division, but the chief duty
it exercised in the matter of the purchase of meats was to

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

supply General Kniskern with such information as might
be available as to future needs, leaving it to him to supply
them. The authority of General Knisk-rn in connection
with the establishing in Chicago of a packing house products branch of the subsistence division of the Quartermaster General's Office and in connection with his later
appointment as zone supply officer appears in Findings
V and VI.
"V.

"On July 3, 1918, by Office Order No. 419, Quartermaster General's Office, there was established in Chicago
a packing-house products branch of the subsistence division of the Quartermaster General's Office to be located
in the general supply depot of the Quartermaster Corps
at Chicago, to be under the immediate direction and control of the depot quartermaster, and to be responsible for
all matters pertaining to the procurement, production, and
inspection of packing-house products, subject to the control of the Quartermaster General.
"The interpretation of this order by the then Acting
Quartermaster General was, 'that whereas the purchasing
of supplies was concentrated in Washington, that Chicago
being the food market, we delegated to General Kniskern
the purchase of meat products and articles of that kind.'
"VI.
"On October 28, 1918, by Purchase and Storage Notice
No. 21, issued by Brig. Gen. R. E. Wood, as Director of
Purchase and Storage, supply zones were created and by
said order the Director of Purchase and Storage appointed
'as his representative .n each general procurement zone
the present depot quartermaster to act and be known as
the zone supply officer,' who was 'charged with authority
over and responsibility for supply activities within the
zone under his jurisdiction.'

UNITED STATES v. SWIFT & CO.
124

Opinion of the Court.

"This form of organization in effect transferred the field
organization of the Quartermaster Corps to the office of
the Director of Purchase and Storage. The procurement
divisions which had theretofore existed in the Quartermaster Corps were transferred to the supply zones created
in the purchase and storage organization, these zones
being practically the same as those formerly existing in
the Quartermaster Corps, over each of which the proper
depot quartermaster exercised jurisdiction, and the depot
quartermasters of the Quartermaster Corps became zone
supply officers and representatives, as such, of the Director
of Purchase and Storage.
"Existing orders and regulations of the several supply
corps with respect to supply activities transferred to the
Director of Purchase and Storage were continued in effect,
Iproviding that the zone supply officers constituted by the
notice shall have final authority in their respective zones
over all matters referred to in existing orders and regulations.' "
The Food Administration under the President, early in
1918, found that the demand for food commodities was
greater than their supply, and it was necessary to suspend
the law of supply and demand in respect of their prices,
and that large purchases of certain commodities should
be made by allocations at fair prices. A Food Purchaso
Board was formally organized by the President, which, on
July 16, 1918, required that canned meats and bacon
should be placed on an allotment basis. General Kniskern, as depot quartermaster at Chicago, was notified by
the Quartermaster General that thereafter tin bacon and
smoked bacon would be allocated by the Food Administration and he was requested to cancel orders which had
been placed with the packers and ask allotments of the
same from the Food Administration. He accordingly in
August 1918 cancelled the orders for the next four months,
but wrote the Food Administration requesting that they

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

confirm the allotments made in accordance with his orders.
Thereupon Major Roy of the Quartermaster's Department, in the name of the Food Administration, made the
allotments. This arrangement continued until the Food
Administration gave up its activities, after the Armistice.
On December 16, 1918, General Kniskern was instructed
by telegraph as follows:
"December 16, 1918.
"Effective with January requirements, the Army will
purchase packing-house products independently of Food
Administration.
"This office is notifying Food Administration accordingly. You are authorized to proceed on this basis.
Please wire acknowledgment.
"Wood, Subsistence, Baker."
Thereafter prices for January and February deliveries
were determined as they had been during the early months

of 1918 before that function came to be exercised by the
Food Administration. The course of procedure with reference to giving the orders for bacon and the fixing of the
price therefor is shown in the following Finding:
"IX.
"In supplying the needs of the Army for bacon and
other packing house products during the early stages of
the war, the regular method of advertising for and receiving bids and letting contracts to lowest bidders, if otherwise satisfactory, was adhered to, but later on, in 1917
and during 1918, the needs had so grown and were so
rapidly approaching the capacity of the packing plants
that this method became impracticable, and the necessity
for a constant and ever-increasing flow of supplies c,' this
character made necessary the resort to other purchase and
procurement methods.

UNITED STATES v. SWIFT & CO.
124

Opinion of the Court.

"The office of the depot quartermaster, afterward the
zone supply officer, at Chicago was informed from time to
time by the proper authorities at Washington as to the
number of men which would be in the service within
stated times, and the duty devolved on the depot quartermaster of procuring supplies of the kind in question sufficient for the indicated number of men without the issuance of specific authorization to him in each instance
to purchase or specific instructions as to quantities to be
purchased. And because of the time required to cure,
smoke and can Army bacon, it was necessary to anticipate needs therefor.
"The plan was adopted by the depot quartermaster at
Chicago of calling into conference with him or his authorized assistant, from time to time, representatives of this
plaintiff and the six other large packing houses, at which
conferences the packers' representatives were informed
as to the needs of the Government for a stated period,
usually three months, sufficiently in the future to give
time for manufacture, and asked to indicate what portion
of the stated needs each would furnish. Upon receipt of
the statements from the packers as to what quantities
they would furnish, which were submitted in writing and
usually within a few days after the conference, the depot
quartermaster made an allotment to each packer and notified each as to the quantities it would be expected to
furnish during each month of the period involved."
It is quite evident from the findings that in the organization and reorganization of the many agencies needed
to furnish the supplies of food in Chicago, there were apparent conflicts of jurisdiction and there were orders issued having on their face general application which in
fact by the course of business were limited, and all these
orders from the War Department and from the Quartermaster's Department were before the Court of Claims for
its consideration. In such a situation the finding of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

Court of Claims that General Kniskern was the representative of the Quartermaster's Department in making
these contracts for bacon is either a question of fact or
a mixed question of law and fact, and is conclusive on
this Court. United States v. Omaha Tribe of Indians,
253 U. S. 275, 281; Ross v. Day, 232 U. S. 110, 116, 117,
and cases cited. There is nothing whatever in the other
findings which is inconsistent with this. At the time this
order was given and accepted by Swift & Company in
November, 1918, the Food Administration, by direction
of the President, had the authority and duty to act upon
the needs of the Quartermaster General's Department for
bacon and other food supplies and to approve those orders
and allot them to the packing companies who were to deliver the supplies. When, therefore, the accepted orders
had been signed both by General Kniskern and by Major
Roy for the Food Administration, they were certainly
authorized in writing on behalf of the Government.
. General Kniskern's authority to act in these purchases
is questioned on the ground that a Captain Shugert was
the only officer authorized to make such contracts. The
objection can not be sustained. On September 17, 1918,
Capt. Jay C. Shugert, Quartermaster Corps, was, by
authority of the Acting Quartermaster General, designated as purchasing and contracting officer for the packing house products and produce division of the office of
the depot quartermaster at Chicago. This order to
Shugert did not vest him with any authority to make
contracts for the packing products branch of the subsistence division of the Quartermaster General's office. Before this latter branch was established, there was a packing house products and produce division of the depot
quartermaster's office at Chicago to which Shugert was
attached. These two offices were distinct. The former
was a unit of the Quartermaster General's office located at
Chicago under the immediate direction and control of

UNITED STATES v. SWIFT & CO.
124

Opinion of the Court.

the depot quartermaster, with general authority to purchase packing house products for the whole army of the
United States wherever situated, as shown by the findings.
The latter was a unit in the depot quartermaster's office
at Chicago, and by an order of January 9, 1919, its functions were transferred to a newly organized office of Director of Purchase and Storage, and Captain Shugert was
transferred with it and thereafter signed the so-called
formal contracts of January and February. More than
this, even if Captain Shugert had been a purchasing and
contracting officer with aithority to sign this main contrct of November, 1918, it would not have deprived General Kniskern of such power when his authority had been
recognized and exercised in the purchase of many millions
of pounds of bacon for the Government for many
months.
Second. The next objection is that the alleged contract
is not complete in its terms, first, in that the offers made
by Swift & Company included No. 8 bacon, while the order
of the Food Administration and of General Kniskern included nothing but No. 10 bacon. We find no weight in
this suggestion. The offer was made by Swift & Company,
and it was only accepted by the allotment of the Food
Administration to the extent of No. 10 bacon and that
allotment was accepted in writing by Swift*& Company,
which, of course, eliminated bacon No. 8 from the contract.
Then it is said that in the letter of December 10th an
inquiry was made by General Kniskern for information as
to where the allotments were to be put up. This was not
a term of the contract. It was evidently left to the discretion of Swift & Company to distribute the allotments
as might be convenient to it, and the inquiry was only
for information as to the various plants of Swift & Company at which inspections and deliverie'were to be made.
Then it is said thht there was no complete contract because the price was not fixed. Upon this point Finding

140

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

No. 10 of the Court of Claims is important. It is as
follows:
"Since there were many elements entering into cost of
production as to which there were frequent fluctuations,
it was not practicable to undertake to determine prices
so far in advance, and accordingly, instead of fixing prices
at the time the proposals were submitted, or notices of
allotments issued, it was agreed that prices would be determined at or near the first of each month for the product
to be furnished during that month. This was at a time
when of necessity the preparation of the product, in this
instance bacon, was well under way, approaching completion as to a large part thereof and when the cost of the
green bellies, the basic element of final cost, and other
fluctuating elements of cost were ascertainable.
"At about this time the usual form of circular proposals
were sent to the packers, not for use in submitting bids as
under the peacetime competitive system, but as a convenient method for formal submission by the packers of
their proposals as to price for the product which they had
theretofore been directed to furnish during the month in
question and which already, by direction of the depot
quartermaster, was in process of preparation.
"Upon submission of these proposals as to price, if the
same were satisfactory to the depot quartermaster or,
otherwise, upon adjustment to a satisfactory basis, purchase orders were issued, which furnished the basis of
payment, although the purchase orders frequently were
not issued until a part and sometimes all of the product
covered thereby had been delivered."
It was evidently impossible to make a contract fixing
the price of the bacon in advance of the partial performance of it, and the price was therefore left to subsequent
adjustment. The Food Administration, by its regulations,
had already determined that the profit of the seller should
not exceed 9 per cent. of the investment, or 21/2 per cent.

UNITED STATES v. SWIFT & CO.
124'

Opinion of the Court.

of the gross sales. Under ordinary conditions, a valid
agreement can be made for purchase and sale without the
fixing of a specific price. In such a case a reasonable price
is presumed to have been intended. In the case of United
States v. Wilkins, 6 Wheat. 135, it was held, under a
proviso of the contract which left the price to be adjusted
by the Government and the contractor, that it was to be
the joint act of both parties and not the exclusive act of
either, that if they could not agree, then a reasonable compensation was to be allowed, that that reasonable compensation was to be proved by competent evidence and
settled by a jury and that the contractor at such a trial
was at liberty to show that the sum allowed him by the
Secretary of War was not a reasonable compensation. In
United States v. Berdan Fire Arms Company, 156 U. S.
552, 569, a suit in the Court of Claims, it was objected
that there was no price agreed upon and that the officers
of the Government were not authorized to agree upon a
price. It was held that this was not material. The question was whether there was a contract for the use of the
patent in that case, and not whether all the conditions of
the use were provided for in such contract, that this was
the ordinary rule in respect of the purchase of property or
labor. 1 Williston, Contracts, § 41. We find, therefore,
that, by the writings and documents, all the necessary details making a valid contract were set forth in writing.
Third. Were they more than mere preliminary data
upon which a subsequent formal contract was to be framed
and signed? Taking the writings together, it is quite
evident that as between individuals such writings would
constitute a single contract for the delivery of 17,000,000
pounds of No. 10 bacon in monthly installments. As the
Court of Claims points out: "From the inception of the
contract here involved bacon for January, February, and
March deliveries was the matter to which the parties addressed themselves. At the conference of November 9,

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

the total needs for the three months were made known.
The plaintiff's proposal, the Food Administration's allotment, in so far as that is material, and General Kniskern's
award all covered the three months. Any separation of
the month of March and its treatment as a matter of independent negotiation is, therefore, unauthorized."
The fact that in January and February there were separate formal contracts of purchase of the bacon deliveries
for those months signed by Captain Shugert and Swift
& Company does not change our view that the original
contract was made in November for the three months.
These later contracts were not made until much of the
bacon had been delivered and the remainder was nearly
ready for delivery and after the price could bE' determined
from the actual cost of purchase of the hogs and the preparation of the bacon. The real function of these socalled formal contracts was to fix the price for the monthly settlements which had been postponed in accordance
with the provision of the original contract until it could:
be fairly determined from the actual cost.
Fourth. We reach the question whether the contract
was evidenced in writing as required by the statutes of the
United States? Rev. Stats., § 3744, provides that "it
shall be the duty of the Secretary of War, of the Secretary
of the Navy, and of the Secretary of the Interior to cause
and require every contract made by them severally on
behalf of the Government, or by their officers under them
appointed to make such contracts, to be reduced to writing, and signed by the contracting parties with their
names at the end thereof." This has been qualified by a
provision of a War Appropriation Act of March 4, 1915,
38 Stat. 1062, 1078, c. 143, reading as follows:
"That hereafter whenever contracts which are not to
be performed within sixty days are made on behalf of
the Government by the Quartermaster General, or by
officers of the Quartermaster Corps authorized to make

UNITED STATES v. SWIFT & CO.
124

Opinion of the Court.

them, and are in excess of $500 in amount, such contracts
shall be reduced to writing and signed by the contracting
parties. In all other cases contracts shall be entered into
under such regulations as may be prescribed by the Quartermaster General."
It is first contended on behalf of the Government that
under § 3744, Revised Statutes, the contract must be in
one instrument and signed by both parties at the end
thereof-that that is the effect of the words "to be signed
at the end thereof." This section has been before this
Court a number of times, and it has never been clearly
declared by this Court to require the contract to be reduced to one instrument. In the case of South Boston
Iron Company v. United States, 118 U. S.37, the Court
of Claims had held that the words "with their names at
the end thereof" required that the signatures should be
appended to one instrument, but it was not necessary to
the decision of the case. On review in this Court, however, the papers relied on were held to be nothing more
than preliminary memoranda made by the parties for use
in preparing a contract for execution in the form required
by law, which was never done. It was said that the whole
matter was abandoned by the Department after the memoranda had been made and that the Iron Company had
never performed any of the work which was referred to
and had never been called upon to do so.
The section has been under consideration before this
Court also in Clark v. United States, 95 U. S. 539; St.
Louis Hay & Grain Co. v. United States, 191 U. S.
159; United States v. Andrews & Co., 207 U. S. 228;
United States v. New York & Porto Rico S. S. Co., 239 U.
S.88, 92; Erie Coal & Coke Corporationv. United States,
266 U. S. 518. In no one of these has it been expressly
decided that the requirements of § 3744 may not be met
by an exchange of correspondence properly signed. But
whether the contention by the Government be true or not

144

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

as to § 3744, the change in the Appropriation Act of 1915,
in which the words "signed by the parties at the end thereof" are omitted, clearly makes unnecessary the evidencing
of such contracts with the Quartermaster's Department
by reduction to writing and signatures in one instrument.
This was a contract made by the Quartermaster's Department and comes exactly within the amendment of 1915,
and we see no reason why it does not constitute a binding
contract upon the Government under the general jurisdiction of the Court of Claims.
Some suggestion is made that the signature of General
Kniskern to the letter of December 10 was by another.
The signature was
" By authority of the Director of Purchase and Storage,
A. D. Kniskern,
BrigadierGeneral, Q. M. Corps,
Officer in Charge,
By 0. W. Menge,
2d Lieut., Q. M. Corps."
It is evident from subsequent correspondence that General Kniskern recognized this as his signature and as a
binding contract. There seems no doubt about the authority of Lieut. Menge to attach his signature or that
it was the regular practice in the office. In a similar case
the Court of Claims, Union Twist Drill Co. v. United
States, 59 Ct. Cls. 909, held that the affixing of the signature of a contracting officer by another duly authorized
created no infirmity in the execution of the contract. A
similar conclusion was reached by Attorney General
Gregory, 31 A. G. 349, and by Attorney General Wirt, 1
A. G. 670. The conclusion we have come to in respect to
the regularity and legality of the contract under the Act
of 1915 makes it unnecessary for us to consider the other
ground upon which the Court of Claims sustained this recovery, to-wit, full performance.

UNITED STATES v. SWIFT & CO.
124

Opinion of the Court.

This brings us to the question of damages. The Government contends that the Court of Claims did not adopt
the proper rule in respect to damages. By the letter of
January 24, General Kniskern, Zone Supply Officer, notified Swift & Company that the only bacon the Government
would take during the month of March, 1919, would be
such bacon as was then in process of cure over and above
the quantity necessary to take.care of the February awards
and which had been passed by the inspectors. Swift &
Company received this on January 27th, and at once
stopped the putting of bacon in cure, but proceeded with
the curing, smoking and canning of bacon already in cure.
March 5, 1919, General Kniskern notified Swift & Company that it would be necessary to discontinue production
on all commodities which were not intended to apply
against the February contract. Should Swift & Company
have any issue bacon which was now in smoke and which
was in excess of the amount required, for the February
delivery, it would be accepted. Swift & Company received
this notice on March 6th, and completed the smoking
and canning of bacon which was already in smoke. When
the notice of March 5th was received by Swift & Company, it had already in smoke for March delivery, 4,197,672
pounds. This bacon was put up under government inspection. When the order was received, there also remained in process of cure, not needed for February deliveries, and intended for March delivery, 1,068,538 pounds
of bellies. Thes6 had been prepared under government
inspection. On March 22, Swift & Company notified
General Kniskern that at that time it had the bacon practically all packed and ready for delivery. It said,." We are
very short of storage room at each of these plants and
will appreciate your giving us purchase order and shipping
instructions in the very near future." April 24, General
Kniskern wrote Swift & Company that his office was tak100569 °-26----10

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

ing preliminary steps toward an adjustment for materials
on hand to be applied against the March deliveries, which
had been cancelled, and requested that a representative
of Swift & Company should be present at a conference
to be held at his office on April 29, 1919, "in order that
you may be fully informed as to what methods should be
followed by your firm in submitting your claim." On
April 29, he wrote to Swift & Company, enclosing papers
" necessary to prepare in order to file a claim for any
amount you may consider due from the various packing
house commodities allotted you for delivery during March,
1919, and on which you will suffer a loss by reason of
cancellation of those orders." And in a note of August
29, 1919, General Kniskern, Zone Supply Officer, wrote
as follows to Swift & Company:
" 1. Regarding your claim for the value of bacon prepared by you under allotment given by this office of
November 9, 1918, and in view of the fact that this claim
is still awaiting action of the Board of Contracts Adjustments in Washington, I desire to state the following:
it
it will be impossible for this office to give
you positive and definite instructions as to the disposal
of any of this product which may at this time be in your
possession. It is, however, realized by this office that the
product in question is of a perishable nature. Further, it
is an important food product. In view of these two facts,
it is believed that these products should be disposed of at
the earliest possible moment. It will not be possible for
the Government to dispose of them until the negotiations
are completed and the actual ownership determined by the
Government, taking them at the agreed price or turning
them over to you on a basis similar to the salvage basis
of unfinished material.
"3. In the judgment of this office, if you are able to
dispose of this product by a sale within the limits of the
United States, it would be a perfectly proper procedure,

UNITED STATES v. SWIFT & CO.
124

Opinion of the Court.

bearing in mind, of course, that having made such sale
it will be necessary for you, when the later negotiations
are in progress, to be able to convince a negotiating officer
that the price you may have received for such part of
this product as has been sold was justified by the conditions.
"4. In order that you may have some basis on which
to proceed, in case you decide to attempt a sale of these
products, you are informed that this office, under authority from Washington, is now selling, through the parcel
post and to individuals, bacon, serial 10, at $4.15 per can,
or about 34 7/12 cents per pound.
" 5. Any sales tlat you may make at the price which
is now being charged through the parcels post and to
individuals would, in the judgment of this office, be entirely in the interests of the Government."
Thereupon Swift & Company began selling the number
10 bacon it had prepared for March deliveries. It directed
its branch houses and agents to sell this at $4.02 a can at
wholesale, a price designed to permit the retailer to sell at
the Government's price and realize a profit for the handling of approximately one cent per pound. It sent out
instructions to its representatives that the Government
was selling at $4.15 a can and added that it was desirable,
therefore, that no dealer should sell for less than that.
Subsequently, and from time to time, the Government reduced its price on army bacon, and the plaintiff followed
the Government's price in its sales except that in a few
localities it was able to procure a better price by reason
of its ability to make prompt delivery which the Government could not do. The lowest price realized was $2.65
per can, or 22 1/12 cents per pound, which was at or near
the end of the period covered by these sales. The sale of
the bulk of this product, approximately 981/ per cent.
thereof, was completed in January, 1920, although there
were sales of about 700 cases in February and a few small

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

sales thereafter, until October, 1920, during which month
the last was sold. For this bacon sold at varying prices
the plaintiff received $1,062,847.54, and its expenses of
sale were $160,982.23.
The Court of Claims found that a fair contract price
for the bacon on the basis upon which prices had theretofore been fixed, and the basis upon which it was contemplated by the parties that the price for this bacon would
be fixed, was $1,640,146.18; that the cost of the bacon put
up by Squire & Company, a subsidiary of Swift & Company, for the account of Swift & Company, was $430,410.48, and the fair contract price therefor as between the
plaintiff and the United States, on the basis above stated.
as within the contermplation of the parties, was $432,573,34; that the reasonable profit, if it had been permitted
to complete and deliver this, would have been $5,021.90,
and that the reasonable additional profit accruing to
Swift & Company, if it had been permitted to manufacture
and deliver serial number 10 bacon up to 6,000,000 pounds
for March delivery, would have been $8,818.30, leaving a
balance, after deducting the net proceeds of sale, and certain other small items to be added, of $1,077,386.30.
We think the necessary effect of the Court of Claims
findings is that Swift & Company was diligent in disposing of this bacon at the best prices it was possible to secure. There was a very large amount of this particular
bacon on the market, and the finding was that it was not
particularly salable because specially prepared under
army orders to avoid spoiling; that it was not commercial
bacon like number 8; that it required more time for preparation and was not adapted to popular consumption because of its more salty flavor.
The Government complains that this army bacon might
have been sold at an earlier time during the summer when
pork was at a higher figure, and would have brought rrlore
money, but there is nothing in the findings to make a

UNITED STATES v. SWIFT & CO.
124

Opinion of the Court.

basis for this claim. The uncertainties as to the best
method of disposition of such surplus supplies, not needed
by reason of demobilization, justified care and deliberation. Swift & Company seemed to be properly anxious
not to embarrass the Government by throwing what, it
had on the market. The large amount of bacon of this
peculiar kind which had to be disposed of made its sale a
matter of considerable delay. Swift & Company were
evidently anxious to conform as nearly as possible to the
desires of the Government, and did so. The bacon of this
kind had no market price and had to be worked off slowly.
Under these conditions, there was no standard by which
the usual rule of damages, namely, the difference between
the contract price and the market price, could be the
measure of Swift & Company's loss through the failure
of the Government to receive the bacon. This was a case
where the only standard could be the contract price and
the amount realized at actual sale by diligent effort. The
rule is that where there is no general market or the merchandise is of a peculiar character and not staple, it is
necessary that some other criterion.be taken than the difference between the agreed price and the general market
value. Fisher Hydraulic Stone & Machinery Company
v. Warner, 233 Fed. 527; Kinkead v. Lynch, 132 Fed. 692;
Leyner Engineering Works v. Mohawk ConsolidatedLeasing Company, 193 Fed. 745; ManhattanCity, etc. Ry. Cq.
v. General Electric Company, 226 Fed. 173; Frederick v.
American Sugar Refining Company, 281 Fed. 305; Barry
v. Cavanaugh, 127 Mass. 394; Dunkirk Colliery Co. v.
Lever (C. A.), 9 Ch. Div. 20, 25.
For these reasons, the measure of damages adopted by
the Court of Claims for the bacon which had been prepared under the contract and which the Government did
not take, was justified.
We come now to the question of the cross appeal of
Swift & Company with reference to the bellies which were

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

sent abroad for sale in April, after the Government had
indicated its desire to cancel the orders for March. These
bellies had not been made into bacon. Of these, 65,225
pounds was sold in the United States at an average price
of 331', cents per pound. All of the remainder of them
were shipped abroad. Those that went to Belgium were
sold at 31 cents; to Norway, at 31 cents; to Germany, at
40 cents, and to France, at 16.56 cents. Swift & Company had theretofore, in ordinary course of business, exported similar products in large quantities, and believed
that at this time it would find a good market because of
the widely reported shortage of food products in Europe.
With these exportations Swift & Company had shipped
largely of other products on its own account on which it
sustained heavy losses. The Court of Claims in its opinion states that it is quite clear that, in seeking a foreign
market for this product, plaintiff was acting in perfect
good faith, and in accordance with its best judgment,
based on former experiences in exporting and information
then at hand as to markets to be anticipated abroad. But
the court said that it (lid not think it could relieve itself
from the consequences of its error in seeking a foreign
market. "It is true that it does not appear that it could
have made other sales on the basis of those made in New
York; on the contrary, it is rather to be implied that other
purchasers were not then available and that the one found
would not buy further, but it seems to us that it was the
duty of the plaintiff to have relied upon the home market
and to have taken such steps that it might show that it
had exhausted that market before resort to a foreign one,
and that in the absence of such a showing, it assumed the
risk of procuring such results as would demonstrate that
the course taken had resulted beneficially to the other
party."
We do not agree with this conclusion. We do not
think seeking a market in France was so different from

MORSE v. UNITED STATES.
124

Syllabus.

attempting a sale in the United States as to indicate a
disposition to speculate at the expense of the Government. In view of the complete good faith manifested
by Swift & Company in this whole transaction, and the
willingness on its part to give up its claim for larger damages for failure of the Government to take the full March
delivery, and in the absence of proof that the bellies might
have been disposed of anywhere else at a better price, we
think the same result should be reached in case of the
bellies as in that of the bacon. We think the Government should pay the difference between the fair contract
price, as found by the Court of Claims, and the actual
sales of the material remaining. In that view there
should be added to the recovery on the cross appeal
$212,216.69, the excess of the contract price over the net
amount realized. The judgment of the Court of Claims is
accordingly affirmed for the amount already allowed by
it, with directions to allow the additional amount now
awarded on the cross appeal.
Affirmed with modification.

MORSE v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 201.

Motion to dismiss submitted February 1, 1926.-Decided
March 1, 1926.

1. Under Rule 90 of the Court of Claims, after a motion, for new
trial has been overruled another can not be made without leave of
court. P. 152.
2. The ninety days allowed by Jud. Code § 243 for appeal to this
Court from a judgment of the Court of Claims, began to run
from the day when that court denied a duly and seasonably filed
motion for a new trial, and was not postponed by the subsequent
presentation of a motion (which the court likewise denied) for
leave to file a further motion for a new trial. P. 153.
Appeal from 59 Ct. Cls. 139, dicmissed.

