GOLDSMITH v. BD. OF TAX APPEALS.
107

117

Statement of the Case.

1 Wall. 655, 656. It is well settled that where a bill in
equity is necessary to have a construction of an order or
decree of a federal court, or to explain, enforce or correct
it, a bill of this kind may be entertained by the court
entering the decree, even though the parties interested
for want of diverse citizenship could not be entitled by
original bill in the federal court to have the matter there
litigated. Julian v. Central Trust Company, 193 U. S.
93, 113; Minnesota Company v. *St. Paul Company, 2
Wall. 609, 633; Wabash Railroad v. ±d"lbert College, 208
U. S. 38, 54; Hoffman v. McClelland, 264 U. S. 552, 558.
The District Court had jurisdiction, and the decree dismissing the petitin should be
Reversed.
H. ELY GOLDSMITH, CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANT, v. UNITED STATES BOARD OF TAX
APPEALS.
ERROR TO THE CC TTRT OF APPEALS

OF THE DISTRICT OF

COLUMBIA.

No. 320. Argued November 30, 1925.--Decided March 1, 1926.
1. Power of the United States Board of Tax Appeals to prescribe
rules for admission of attorneys and certified public acco,'ntants
to practice before it under the Revenue Act of 1924, § jOO, 42
Stat. 253, is implied in the other powers conferred by the. Act
P. 120.
2. Where the application of a certified public accountant for ad
mission to practice before the Board of Tax Appeals was denied
after an ex parte investigation, held that he was entitled to notice
and a hearing before the Board upon the charges on which the
denial was based. P. 123.
3. Mandamus will not lie summarily to compel the Board to enroli
an applicant who has not applied to the Board for a hearing on
the charges which caused its denial of his application. P. 123.
55 App. D. C. 229, 4 Fed. (2d) 422, affirmed.
ERROR to a judgment of the Court of Appeals of the
District of Columbia refusing a mandamus to compel the

118

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

United States Board of Tax Appeals to admit to practice before it a certified public accountant.
Mr. H. Ely Goldsmith, pro se.
The board has no express authority to make and enforce
rules for the admission of attorneys, and there is no authority in the courts to supply omissions of the statutes.
Cotheal v. Cotheal, 40 N. Y. 405; Benton v. Wickwire,
54 N. Y. 226; Daly v. Haight, 170 App. Div. 469; F. A.
Bank v. Colgate, 120 N. Y. 381. Shoemaker v. Hoyt,
148 N. Y. 425; Morrill v. Jones, 106 U. S. 466.
There is no implied authority of executive departments
to prescribe and enforce rules for admission of attorneys.
If Congress had intended to give this board such power
as is claimed by it, it would have said so specifically. If
the respondents had the power to make rules for admission
of attorneys they failed to exercise in a proper manner
their prerogative of passing upon applications in the case
of petitioner. The due process clause in the Constitution
entitled petitioner to be heard before an opportunity to
make a living in his profession was taken away from him.
A substantial right has been invaded by the respondents,
and this Court may well determine that they acted arbitrarily, tyrannically and capriciously in refusing the enrollinent. Ex parte Garland, 4 Wall. 333; Ex parte Secombe, 19 Ilow. 9; Ex parte Robinson, 19 Wall. 513.
Notwithstanding their powers of subpoena, the defendants
form an administrative board, and not a judicial tribunal.
Solicitor General Mitchell and Messrs. Alfred A. Wheat,
Special Assistant to the Attorney General, and Randolph
S. Collins, Attorney in the Department of Justice, were
on the brief, for respondents.
AIR. CHIEF JUSTICE TAFT

delivered the opinion of the

Court.

I1. Ely Goldsmith, a citizen of New York and qualified
to practice as a Cert ifiefI Public Accountant by certificate

GOLDSMITH v. BD. OF TAX APPEALS.
117

119

Opinion of the Court.

issued under the laws of that State, filed a petition in the
Supreme Court of the District of Columbia asking for a
writ of mandamus against the United States Board of
Tax Appeals created by the Revenue Act of 1924, 43 Stat.
253, 336, Title IX, § 900, to compel the Board to enroll
him as an attorney with the right to practice before it,
and to enjoin the Board from interfering with his appearance before it in behalf of tax-payers whose interests are
there being dealt with.
The petition avers that the Board has published rules
for admission of persons entitled to practice before it, by
which attorneys at law admitted to courts of the United
States and the States, and the District of Columbia, as
well as certified public accountants duly qualified under
the law of any State or the District, are made eligible.
The applicant is required to make a statement under oath
giving his name, residence and the time and place of his
admission to the bar or of his qualification as a public
accountant, and disclosing whether he has ever been disbarred or his right to practice as a certified accountant
has ever been revoked. The rules further provide that
the Board may in its discretion deny admission to any
applicant, or suspend or disbar any person after admission.
The petitioner says that pursuant to these rules he
made application, showing that he was a public accountant of New York duly certified and that his certificate
was unrevoked, that he thereupon filed petitions for tax.payers before the Board, but that he was then advised,
September 5, 1924, by the Board that the question of his
admission to practice had been referred to a committee
for investigation, that in due course he would be notified
whether the committee desired him to appear before it
and of its action in the premises; and that on September
27 he received notice that his application had been received, considered and denied. So far as appears, he
made no further application to the Board to be heard

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

upon the question of his admission, but filed his petition
for nandamus at once. In his petition, he denies the
power of the Board to make rules for admission of persons
to practice before it.
Upon the filing of the petition, a judge of the Supreme
Court of the District ordered a rule against the Board to
show cause. The members of the Board answered the
rule as if they were individual defendants and set out at
considerable length the discharge of the petitioner for
improper conduct as examiner of municipal accounts in
the office of State Comptroller of New York (People ex
rel. Goldsmith v. Travis, 167 Apl. Div. 475; 219 N. Y.
589) and the rejection of the petitioner as an applicant
for admission to practice in the Department of the Treasury because of improper advice to clients, as grounds upon
which the committee and the Board had denied his
application to practice before it.
To this answer the petitioner replied, consenting to the
appearance of individual members of the Board as defendants, denying some of the charges made but averring
that they were none of them competent evidence on the
issue presented and were merely hearsay, and that the
action in New York and in the Treasury Department was
due to prejudice against him for doing his duty. To this
reply the defendants demurred. Upon the issue thus
presented, the Supreme Court dismissed the petition for
mandamus.
The Court of Appeals of the District affirmed the judgment of the Supreme Court (4 Fed. (2nd) 422), and the
case has been brought here on error under § 250 of the
Judicial Code, as a case in which the construction of a law
of the United States is drawn in question.
The chief issue made between the parties is whether
the Board of Tax Appeals has power to adopt rules of
practice before it by which it may limit those who appear
before it to represent the interest of tax-payers to persons

GOLDSMITH v. BD. OF TAX APPEALS.
117

121

Opinion of the Court.

whom the Board deem qualified to perform such service
and to be of proper character.
The Board is composed of members appointed by the
President by and with the advice and consent of the
Senate, with a chairman appointed by the Board. It is
charged with the duty of hearing and determining appeals
from the Commissioner of Internal Revenue on questions
of tax assessments for deficiencies in returns of tax-payers.
Notice and opportunity to be heard is to be given to the
tax-payer. Hearings .before the Board arc to be open to
the public. The Board may subpoena witnesses, compel
the production of papers and documents and administer
oaths. The duty of the Board and of each of the divisions
into which it may be divided is to make a report in writing of its findings of fact and decision in each case. In
any subsequent suit in court by the tax-payer to recover
amounts paid under its decision, its findings of fact shall
be prima facie evidence. It is further provided by the Act
that " the proceedings of the Board and its divisions shall
be conducted in accordance with such rules of evidence
and procedure as the Board may prescribe." The last
sentence in the Title providing for the Board is, " The
Board shall be an independent agency in the executive
branch of the Government."
We think that the character of the work to be done by
the Board, the quasi judicial nature of its duties, the magnitude of the interests to be affected by its decisions, all
require that those who represent the tax-payers in the
hearings should be persons whose qualities as lawyers or
accountants will secure proper service to their clients and
to help the Board in the discharge of its important duties.
In most of the Executive departments in which interests
of individuals as claimants or tax-payers are to be passed
on by executive officers or boards, authority is exercised
to limit those who act for them as attorneys to persons
of proper character and qualification to do so. Not in-

122

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

frequently, statutory provision is made for requiring a list
of enrolled attorneys to which a practitioner must be admitted by the executive officer or tribunal. Act July 7,
1884, 23 St. 236, 258, c. 334; Act of July 4, 1884, 23 Stat.
98, 101, c. 181, § 5; Act of June 10, 1921, 42 Stat. 25, c. 18,
§ 311. In view of these express provisions, it is urged
that the absence of such authority in case of the Board
of Tax Appeals should indicate that it was not intended
by Congress to give it the power. Our view, on the contrary, is that so necessary is the power and so usual is it
that the general words by which the Board is vested with
the authority to prescribe the proc dure in accordance with
which its business shall be conducted include as part of the
procedure rules of practice for the admission of attorneys.
It would be a very curious situation if such power did not
exist in the Board of Tax Appeals when in the Treasury
Department and the office of the Commissioner of Internal
Revenue there is a list of attorneys enrolled for practice
in the very cases which are to be appealed to the Board.
Our conclusion in this case is sustained by the decision
of the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts in Manning v. French, 149 Mass. 391. That was a suit for tort
against members of the Court of Commissioners of Alabama Claims for unjustly depriving an attorney of the
privilege of practicing before it. The court was given by
statute power to make rules for regulating the forms and
mode of procedure for the court, and this was held to include the power to make rules for the admission of persons
to prosecute claims before the court as agents or attorneys
for the claimants. It was pointed out in support of the
construction that claimants were not compelled to appear
in person to present their claims, as the tax-payers are not
before the Board of Tax Appeals. The fact that in the
Manning Case the body was called a Court and that here
the Board is an executive tribunal does not make the
decision inapplicable. The Court of Alabama Claims was

GOLDSMITH v. BD. OF TAX APPEALS.
117

123

Opinion of the Court.

certainly not a United States Court under the third Article
of the Constitution. It was rather a commission to aid the
fulfilment of an international award with judicial powers.
It is next objected that no opportunity was given to the
petitioner to be heard in reference to the charges upon
which the committee acted in denying him admission to
practice. We think that the petitioner having shown by
his application that, being a citizen of the United States
and a certified public accountant under the laws of a
State, he was within the class of those entitled to be admitted to practice under the Board's rules, he should not
have been rejected upon charges of his unfitness without
giving him an opportunity by notice for hearing and
answer. The rules adopted by the Board provide that
"the Board may in its discretion deny admission, suspend
or disbar any person." But this must be construed to
mean the exercise of a discretion to be exercised after
fair investigation, with such a notice, hearing and opportunity to answer for the applicant as would constitute
due process. Garfield v. United States, ex rel. Spalding,
32 App. D. C. 153, 158; United States ex r0. JVedderburn
v. Bliss, 12 App. 1). C. 485; Phillips v. Ballinger, 27 App.
D. C. 46, 51.
The petitioner as an applicant for admission to practice
was, therefore, entitled to demand from the Board the
right to be heard on the charges against him upon which
the Board has denied him admission. But he made no
demand of this kind. Instead of doing so, he filed this
petition in mandamus in which he asked for a writ to
compel the Board summarily to enroll him in the list of
practitioners, and to enjoin it from interfering with his
representing clients before it. He was not entitled to this
on his petition. Until he had sought a hearing from the
Board, and been denied it, he could not appeal to the
courts for any remedy and certaintly not for mandamus
to compel enrollment. Nor was there anything in the

124

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Syllabus.

270 U. S.

answer, reply or demurrer which placed him in any
more favorable attitude for asking the writ.
This conclusion leads us to affirm the judgment of the
Court of Appeals.

Affirmed.
UNITED STATES v. SWIFT & COMPANY.
SWIFT & COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
APPEALS FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS

Nos. 288 and 289.

Submitted Novcmber 24,
March 1, 1926.

1925.-Decided

1. A finding by the Court of Claims that a general who signed a
contract for army supplies was the representative of the Quartermaster's Department in that regard, held conclusive on this Court
as a finding of fact, or of mixed law and fact, where the result
involved consideration of apparent conflicts of jurisdiction of
many food supply agencies during the war, and of orders from
the War Department and Quartermaster's Department, the effect
of which was limited in practice, all of which were before the Court
of Claims. P. 137.
2. Orders for the purchase of bacon for the Army, accepted by the
seller and signed by the proper representatives of the Quartermaster's Department and the Food Administration, held authorized in writing on behalf of the Government. P. 138.
3. The authority of the representative of the Packing House Products
Branch of the Subsistence Division of the Quartermaster General's
Office, at Chicago, to purchase meat products for the Army, which
was repeatedly exercised and recognized, was not affected by the
assignment of another officer as the purchasing and contracting
officer for the Packing House Products and Produce Division of the
office of the Depot Quartermaster at Chicago or his subsequent
transfer to Director of Purchase and Storage. P. 138.
4. Acceptance of an offer in part becomes a contract when the offerer
accepts the modification. P. 139.
5. It is not essential to a contract of sale that it fix a price. P. 139.
6. An agreement reached by correspondence between a meat packer
and representatives of the Quartermaster's Department and the
Food Administration for the delivery of bacon in three successive

