OCTOBER TERM, 1925.

49

Syllabus.

UNITED STATES v. HOLT STATE BANK ET AL.
APPEAL

FROM THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 47.

Argued April 24, 27, 1925.-Decided February 1, 1926.

1. In general, lands underlying navigable waters within a State
belong to the State in its sovereign capacity and may be used
and disposed of as it may elect, subject to the paramount power
of Congress to control such waters for the purposes of navigation
in interstate and foreign commerce. P. 54.
2. Where the United States, after acquiring the territory and before
the creation of the State, has granted rights in such lands, in
carrying out public purposes appropriate to the objects for which
the territory was held, such rights are not impaired by the subsequent creation of the State, and the rights which otherwise would
then pass to the State in virtue of its admission into the Union
are restricted and qualified accordingly. Id.
3. But disposals by the United States, during the territorial period,
of lands under navigable water should not be regarded as intended
unless the intention was made very plain by definite declaration or
otherwise. P. 55.
4. Navigability, when asserted as the basis of a right arising under
the Constitution, is a question of federal law, to be determined
by the rule applied in the federal courts, and not by a local standard. Id.
5. By the federal rule, streams or lakes which are navigable in fact
are navigable in law; they are navigable in fact when used, or susceptible of use, in their natural and ordinary condition, as highways of commerce over which trade and travel are or may be
conducted in the customary modes on water; and navigability does
not depend on the particular mode of such actual or possible usewhether by steamboats, sailing vessels or flatboats-nor on the
absence of occasional difficulties in navigation, but upon whether
the stream, in its natural and ordinary condition, affords a channel
for useful commerce. P. 56.
6. The evidence requires a finding that Mud Lake, in Minnesota,
now drained, was navigable when Minnesota was created a State
in 1858. Id.
7. At the time of Minnesota's admission as a State, Mud Lake and
other and much larger navigable waters within her limits were
100569°-26---4

50

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for the United States.

270 U. S.

included in the Red Lake Indian Reservation, which had resulted
from a succession of treaties by which the Chippewas ceded to the
United States their right of occupancy of the surrounding lands,
leaving this remainder of the aboriginal territory, recognized as a
reservation but never formally set apart as such. There had been
no affirmative declaration of the Indians' rights in the reservation,
nor any attempted exclusion of other, from the use of the navigable
waters therein. Held that the I ind under Mud Lake passed to the
State, since there was nothing to evince a purpose of the General
Government to depart from the established policy of holding such
land for the benefit of the future State. P. 57.
204 Fed. 161, affirmed.
APPEAL from a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
which affirmed a decree of the District Court dismissing
on the merits, after final hearing, a bill brought by the
United States to quiet title to the bed of a drained lake
and to enjoin the defendants from asserting any claim to
the land.

Mr. WV. 11'. Dyar, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, with whom Solicitor Geiwral Beck, Assistant Attorney
General Wells and Mr. S. TV. Williams, Special Assistant
to the Attorney General, were on the brief, for the United
States.
Mud Lake was never a navigable body of water in fact,
therefore the title to its bed (lid not vest in the State. The
Daniel Ball, 10 Wall. 557; The Montello, 20 Wall. 430;
Leovy v. United States, 177 U. S. 621; Harrison v. Fite,
148 Fed. 781; Oklahoma v. Texas, 258 U. S. 574; BrewerElliott Oil & Gas Co. v. United States, 260 U. S. 77.
Tested by the rules laid down in the cases cited, it will
be readily seen that Mud Lake falls far short of being a
navigable body of water. It may have had sufficient
depth at times of floods for the use of boats of light draft,
but there were seasons when the lake was practically dry
land, and often in times of water the boats that were used
upon the lake had to be poled or pulled across the shallow

UNITED STATES v. HOLT BANK.
49

Opinion of the Court.

places. Moreover, there was no commerce to be conducted
on the lake, as the country was sparsely settled and there
was little or no occasion for it.
To admit a multiplicity of rules defining navigability
would be to violate the principle of equality among the
States under pretense of observing it; and to permit the
various States to define the rule for themselves would be
in effect to make them the arbiters of their respective prerogatives under the Constitution and submit the property
rights of the United States to State determination. 29 Op.
A. G. 455.
The Government clearly had the right to limit its patents to lands above the meander line. Oklahoma v. Texas,
258 U. S. 574; 29 Op. A. G. 455; Mitchell v. Smale, 140
U. S. 406; Chapman & Dewey Lumber Co. v. St. Francis
Levee District, 232 U. S. 186. The United States owned
the lake bed in trust for the Indians and was under obligations to them to dispose of it for their benefit. Minnesota
v. Hitchcock, 185 U. S. 373; Shively v. Bowlby, 152 U. S.
1; United States v. Winans, 198 U. S. 371. The United
States was not bound by the proceedings had in the state
court. Stanley v. Schwalby, 162 U. S. 255.
Mr. A. N. Eckstrom, with whom Messrs. TV. E. Rowe
and Ole J. Vaule were on the brief, for appellees.
MR. JusTIcE VAN DEVANTER delivered the opinion of
the Court.
This is a bill in equity by the United States to quiet in
it the title to the bed of Mud Lake-now drained and uncovered-in Marshall County, Minnesota, and to enjoin
the defendants from asserting any claim thereto. After
answer and a hearing the District Court entered a decree
dismissing the bill on the merits. The United States
appealed to the Circuit Court of Appeals, where the decree was affirmed, 294 Fed. 161, and then by a further
appeal brought the case here.

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

Mud lake is within what formerly was known as the
Red Lake Indian Reservation, which had an area exceeding 3,000,000 acres and was occupied by certain bands of
the Chippewas of Minnesota. Most of the reservation.
including the part in the vicinity of Mud Lake, was relinquished and ceded by the Chippewas conformably to the
Act of January 14, 1889, c. 24, 25 Stat: 642, for the purposes and on the terms stated in that Act. It provided
that the lands when ceded should be surveyed, classified
as "pine lands" and "agricultural lands," and disposed
of in designated modes; that such as were classified as
agricultural should be disposed of under the homestead
law at a price of $1.25 an acre; and that the net proceeds
of all, whether classified as pine or agricultural, should
be put into an interest-bearing trust fund for the Chippewas and ultimately disbursed for their benefit or distributed among them.
The cession became effective through the President's
approval March 4, 1890. Thereafter the lands in the
vicinity of Mud Lake were surveyed and platted in the
usual way, the lake being meandered and represented on
the plat as a lake. The tracts bordering on the lake were
classified .as agricultural, opened to homestead entry and
disposed of to homestead settlers, patents being issued
in due course. The defendants now own and hold these
tracts under the patents. After the homestead entries
were allowed, and after most of them were carried to patent, the lake was drained and its bed made bare by a public ditch constructed under the drainage laws of the State.
The United States then surveyed the bed with the purpose of disposing of it for the benefit of the Indians under
the Act of 1889, and later brought this suit to clear the
way for such a disposal
The lake in its natural condition covered an area of
almost 5,000 acres and was traversed by Mud River, a
tributary of Thief River, which was both navigable in

UNITED STATES v. HOLT BANK.
49

Opinion of the Court.

itself and directly connected with other navigable streams
leading to the western boundary of the State and thence
along that boundary to the British possessions on the
north.
The ditch which drained the lake was established as a
means of fitting for cultivation a large body of swamp
lands in that general vicinity. It is as much as 30 miles
long, and, like Mud River, passes through the lake and
discharges into Thief River. Its depth exceeds that of
the lake and its width and fall are such that it has drawn
the water out of the lake. Its construction was begun
in 1910 and was so far completed in 1912 that the lake
was then effectively drained.
The swamp lands which the ditch was intended to reclaim were within the ceded portion of the Red Lake
Reservation. Some had been disposed of under the Act
of 1889 and thus had passed into private ownership; but
the absence of necessary drainage was preventing or retarding the disposal of the others. Congress caused an
examination to be made to determine whether drainage
was physically and economically feasible, Acts of June
21, 1906, c. 3504, 34 Stat. 352, and March 1, 1907, c. 2285,
34 Stat. 1033; and a report of the examination was made,
H. R. Doc. No. 607, 59th Cong. 2d Sess. Shortly thereafter Congress gave its assent to the drainage of the lands
under the laws of the State by declaring that all lands not
entered and all entered lands for which a final certificate
had not issued should "be subject to all the provisions of
the laws of said State relating to the drainage of swamp
or overflowed lands for agricultural purposes to the same
extent and in the same manner in which lands of a like
character held in private ownership are or may be subject to said laws." Act May 20, 1908, c. 181, 35 Stat. 169.
The laws of the State, to the application of which assent
was thus given, authorized the establishment of public
drainage ditches by judicial proceedings and provided that

54

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

such ditches might be so established as to widen, deepen,
change or drain any river or lake, even if navigable and
whether meandered or not. Laws 1905, c. 230; Gen. Stat.
1913, §§ 5523, 5525, 5531, 5553, et seq. The ditch which
drained Mud Lake was established by judicial proceedings
begun under these laws after the congressional consent was
given; and it is not questioned that those proceedings
made it entirely lawful to construct the ditch through the
lake and to drain it as an incident of the reclamation
project in hand.
The defendants insist that the lake in its natural condition was navigable, that the State on being admitted into
the Union became the owner of its bed, and that under
the laws of the State the defendants as owners of the
surrounding tracts have succeeded to the right of the State.
On the other hand, the United States insists that the lake
never was more than a mere marsh, that the State never
acquired any right to it, that the surveyor should have
extended the survey over it when he surveyed the adjacent
lands, and that the United States is entitled and in duty
bound to dispose of it under the Act of 1889 for the benefit of the Chippewas.
Both courts below resolved these contentions in favor
of the defendants; and whether they erred in this is the
matter for decision here.
It is settled law in this country that lands underlying
navigable waters within a State belong to the State in its
sovereign capacity and may be used and disposed of as
it may elect, subject to the paramount power of Congress
to control such waters for the purposes of navigation in
commerce among the States and with foreign nations, and
subject to the qualification that where the United States,
after acquiring the territory and before the creation of
the State, has granted rights in such lands by way of performing international obligations, or effecting the use or
improvement of the lands for the purposes of commerce

UNITED STATES v. HOLT BANK.
49

Opinion of the Court.

among the States and with foreign nations, or carrying
out other public purposes appropriate to the objects for
which the territory was held, such rights are not cut off
by the subsequent creation of the State, but remain unimpaired, and the rights which otherwise would pass to the
State in virtue of its admission into the Union are restricted or qualified accordingly. Barney v. Keokuk, 94
U. S. 324, 338; Shively v. Bowlby, 152 U. S. 1, 47-48,
57-58; Scott v. Lattig, 227 U. S.229, 242; Port of Seattle
v. Oregon & TVashington R. R. Co., 255 U.
S. 56, 63;
Brewer-Elliott Oil & Gas Co. v. United States, 260 U. S.
77, 83-85. But, as was pointed out in Shively v. Bowiby,
pp. 49, 57-58, the United States early adopted and constantly has adhered to the policy of regarding lands under
navigable waters in acquired territory, while under its sole
dominion, as held for the ultimate benefit of future States,
and so has refrained from making any disposal thereof,
save in exceptional instances when impelled to particular
disposals by some international duty or public exigency.
It follows from this that disposals by the United States
during the territorial period are not lightly to be inferred,
and should not be regarded as intended unless the intention
was definitely declared or otherwise made very plain.
The State of Minnesota was admitted into the Union
in 1858, c. 31, 11 Stat. 285, and under the constitutional
principle of equality among the several States the title to
the bed of Mud Lake then passed to the State, if the lake
was navigable, and if the bed had not already been disposed
of by the United States.
Both courts below found that the lake was navigable.
But they treated the question of navigability as one of
local law to be determined by applying the rule adopted
in Minnesota. We think they applied a wrong standard.
Navigability, when asserted as the basis of a right arising
under the Constitution of the United States, is necessarily
a qiestion of federal law to be determined according to

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

the general rule recognized and applied in the federal
courts. Brewer-Elliott Oil & Gas Co. v. United States,
supra, p. 87. To treat the question as turning on the
varying local rules would give the Constitution a diversified operation where uniformity was intended. But notwithstanding the error below in accepting a wrong standard of navigability, the findings must stand if the record
shows that according to the. right standard the lake was
navigable.
The rule long since approved by this Court in applying
the Constitution and laws of the United States is that
streams or lakes which are navig-.ble in fact must be regarded as navigable in law; that they are navigable in fact
when they are used, or are susceptible of being used, in
their natural and ordinary condition, as highways for commerce, over which trade and travel are or may be conducted in the customary modes of trade and travel on
water; and further that navigability does not depend on
the particular mode in which such use' is or may be hadwhether by steamboats, sailing vessels or flatboats--nor
on an absence of occasional difficulties in navigation, but
on the fact, if it be a fact, that the stream in its natural
and ordinary condition affords a channel for useful commerce. The Montello, 20 Wall. 430, 439; United States
v. Cress, 243 U. S. 316, 323; Economy Light & Power Co.
v. United States, 256 U. S. 113, 121; Oklahoma v. Texas,
258 U. S. 574, 586; Brewer-Elliott Oil & Gas Co. v. United
States, supra, p. 86.
The evidence set forth in the record is voluminous and
in some respects conflicting. When the conflicts are resolved according to familiar rules we think the facts shown
are as follows: In its natural and ordinary condition the
lake was from three to six feet deep. When meandered in
1892 and when first known by some of the witnesses it
was an open body of clear water. Mud River traversed it
in such way that it might well be characterized as an

UNITED STATES v. HOLT BANK.
49

Opinion of the Court.

enlarged section of that stream. Early visitors and settlers in that vicinity used the river and lake as a route of
travel, employing the small boats of the period for the
purpose. The country about had been part of the bed
of the glacial Lake Agassiz and was still swampy, so that
waterways were the only dependable routes for trade and
travel. Mud River after passing through the lake connected at Thief River with a navigable route extending
westward to the Red River of the North and thence
northward into the British possessions. Merchants in the
settlements at Liner and Grygla, which were several miles
up Mud River from the lake, used the river and lake in
sending for and bringing in their supplies. True, the navigation was limited, but this was because trade and travel
in that vicinity were limited. In seasons of great drought
there was difficulty in getting boats up the river and
through the lake, but this was exceptional, the usual
conditions being as just stated. Sand bars in some parts
of the lake prevented boats from moving readily all over
it, but the bars could be avoided by keeping the boats in
the deeper parts or channels. Some years after the lake
was meandered, vegetation such as grows in water got a
footing in the lake and gradually came to impede the
movement of boats at the end of each growing season,
but offered little interference at other times. Gasoline
motor boats were used in surveying and marking the line
of the intended ditch through the lake and the ditch was
excavated with floating dredges.
Our conclusion is that the evidence requires a finding
that the lake was navigable within the approved rule before stated. From this it follows that no prejudice resulted from the recognition below of the local rule respecting navigability.
We come then to the question whether the lands under
the lake were disposed of by the United States before
Minnesota became a State. An affirmative disposal is

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

not asserted, but only that the lake, and therefore the
lands under it, was within the limits of the Red Lake
Reservation when the State was admitted. The existence
of the reservation is conceded, but that it operated as a
disposal of lands underlying navigable waters within its
limits is disputed. We are of opinion that the reservation was not intended to effect such a disposal and that
there was none. If the reservation operated as a disposal
of the lands under a part of the navigable waters within
its limits it equally worked a disposal of the lands under
all. Besides Mud Lake, the reservation limits included
Red Lake, having an area of 400 sluare miles, the greater
part of the Lake of the Woods, having approximately the
same area, and several navigable streams. The reservation came into being through a succession of treaties with
the Chippewas whereby they ceded to the United States
their aboriginal right of occupancy to the surrounding
lands. The last treaties preceding the admission of the
State were concluded September 30, 1854, 10 Stat. 1109,
and February 22, 1855, 10 Stat. 1165. There was no
formal setting apart of what was not ceded,* nor any affirmative declaration of the rights of the Indians therein,
nor any attempted exclusion of others from the use of
navigable waters. The effect of what was done was to reserve in a general way for the continued occupation of the
Indians what remained of their aboriginal territory; and
thus it came to be known and recognized as a reservation.
Minnesota v. Hitchcock, 185 U. S. 373, 389. There was
nothing in this which even approaches a grant of rights
in lands underlying navigable waters; nor anything
evincing a purpose to depart from the established policy,
before stated, of treating such lands as held for the
* Other reservations for particular bands were specially set apart,
but those reservations and bands are not to be confused with the Red
Lake Reservation and the bands occupying it. See Treaty concluded
October 2, 1863, 13 Stat. 667.

MILLERS' UNDERWRITERS v. BRAUD.
49

59

Syllabus.

benefit of the future State. Without doubt the Indians
were to have access to the navigable waters and to be
entitled to use them in accustomed ways; but these were
common rights vouchsafed to all, whether white or Indian,
by the early legislation reviewed in Railroad Company v.
Schurmeir, 7 Wall. 272, 287-289, and Economy Light &
Power Co. v. United States, supra, pp. 118-120, and emphasized in the Enabling Act under which Minnesota was
admitted as a State, c. 60, 11 Stat. 166, which declared
that the rivers and waters bounding the State "and the
navigable waters leading into the same shall be common
highways, and forever free, as well to the inhabitants of
said State as to all other citizens of the United States."
We conclude that the State on its admission into the
Union became the owner of the bed of the lake. It is conceded that, if the bed thus passed to the State, the defendants have succeeded to the State's right therein; and the
decisions and statutes of the State brought to our attention show that the concession is rightly made.
Decree affirmed.
MILLERS' INDEMNITY UNDERWRITERS v. NELLIE BOUDREAUX BRAUD AND ED. J. BRAUD.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF TEXAS.

No. 124.

Argued January 13, 1926.-Decided February 1, 1926.

Plaintiff's intestate, while employed as a diver by a ship-building
company, submerged himself from a floating barge anchored in a
navigable river in Texas thirty-five feet from the bank, for the
purpose of sawing off timbers of an abandoned set of ways, once
used for launching ships, which had become an obstruction to navigation. While thus submerged he died of suffocation due to failure
of the air supply. Damages for the death were recovered from
the employer's insurer under the workmen's compensation law of
Texas. Held,

