ISELIN v. UNITED STATES.
243

Statement of the Case.

blood or descent, to any allotment of land under any law
or treaty." This paragraph is but a codification of provisions found in the Act of August 15, 1894, c. 290, 28
Stat. 305, as amended by the Act of February 6, 1901, c.
217, 31 Stat. 760. It has reference to original allotments
claimed under some law or treaty, and not to disputes
concerning the heirs of one who held a valid and unquestioned allotment.
The decree is
Affirmed.

ISELIN v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 119.

Argued January 12, 1926.-Decided March 1, 1926.

1. Par. 3 of § 800(a) of Revenue Act of 1918, laying taxis on theater
and opera tickets sold at newstands, hotels, etc., for more than
the "established price" at the ticket office of the theater or
opera house, held inapplicable to sale by a stockholder of box
tickets, issued as an incident of his investment in an opera house
company, which were not sold at the box-office and for which there
was no established price. P. 247.
2. A statute imposing taxes with particularity, and in plain, unambiguous language, cannot be enlarged by construction to cover
other cases omitted through presumable inadvertence of the legislature. P. 250.
3. An administrative practice which enlarges the scope of an unambiguous statute, and which is neither uniform, general, nor long
continued, can not be given legal force or effect, nor be accepted
as a reason why subsequent reenactment of the statute without
change should be taken as a legislative interpretation of its original
meaning as justifying such practice. P. 251.
59 Ct. Cls. 654, reversed.
APPEAL

from a judgment of the Court of Claims reject-

ing a claim for money paid by Georgine Iselin, under
protest, as a tax on receipts from sale of admissions to an
opera box.

246

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

Mr. H. G. Pickering, with whom Messrs. Eldon Bisbee
and Henry Root Stem were on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Alfred A. Wheat, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom Solicitor General Mitchell was on the
brief, for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The Metropolitan Opera House in New York City is
owned by a corporation which leased it to the producing
company. The use of all the parterre boxes was reserved
by the lessor, with the privilege of six free admissions to
each box at every performance. Before the passage of
the Revenue Law of 1918, the lessor conferred ukon
Georgine Iselin, as owner of 300 of its shares, a license
so to use a designated parterre box. During the season
of 1919-20, being authorized so to do, she sold through
a personal agents the license to use her box for 47 of the
70 performances given during the season, and received
therefor $9,525 net, after deduction of the agent's commissions. On the amount received Miss Iselin was assessed a tax of $3,352.50, under paragraph 3 of § 800(a)
of the Revenue Act of 1918, Act of February 24, 1919,
c. 18, 40 Stat. 1057, 1120-21. She paid the amount under
protest and presented a claim that it be refunded. The
Commissioner of Internal Revenue rejected the application, holding that the tax was payable under paragraph
4 of that Act.' Then, Miss Iselin brought this suit in
the Court of Claims to recover the amount. A judgment
'Paragraph (4) provides: "A tax equivalent to 50 per centum of
the amount for which the proprietors, managers, or employees of any
opera house, heater, orother place of amusement sell or dispose of
tickets or cards of admission in excess of the regular or established
price or charge therefor, such tax to be returned and paid, in the
manner provided in section 903, by the person selling such tickets."

ISELIN v. UNITED STATES.
245

Opinion of the Court.

dismissing the petition, rendered upon firdings of fact,
was entered March 5, 1924. 59 Ct. Cls. 654. The case is
here on appeal under § 242 of the Judicial Code.
Paragraph 3 of § 800(a), under which the tax was assessed, provides:
"Upon tickets or cards of admission to theaters, operas,
and other places of amusement, sold at news stands,
hotels, and places other than the ticket offices of such
theaters, operas, or other places of amusement, at not to
exceed 50 cents in excess of the sum of the established
price therefor at such ticket offices plus the amount of
any tax imposed by paragraph (1), a tax equivalent to 5
per centum of the amount of such excess; and if sold for
more than 50 cents in excess of the sum of such established price plus the amount of any tax imposed under
paragraph (1), atax equivalent to 50 per centum of the
whole amount of such excess, such taxes to be returned
and paid, in the manner provided in § 903, by the person
selling such ticket."
Neither stockholders' boxes nor tickets to them were on
sale at any ticket office, as all the parterre boxes were
reserved by the lease for the stockholders. For this reason there was no regular or established price for parterre
boxes. Nor was any other box exactly like them on sale.
Each sale of a stockholders' box or tickets was made as
the individual transaction of a particular stockholder, for
a particular performance, and to a designated purchaser.
The price paid varied widely for different performances.
There was, above the parterre boxes, a tier of boxes,
known as the grand tier. These boxes, which were on
sale at the ticket office, also had seats for six persons, were
uniform in size with the stockholders' boxes, and were
otherwise similar. The ticket office price for grand tier
boxes was $60 for each performance. The Commissioner
of Internal Revenue, though sustaining the tax under
paragraph 4, assessed the tax under paragraph 3, appar-

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Courte

'75 U S.

ently on ie theory that Congress intended to tax sales
of boxes like the plaintiff's; that, since there was no
"regular established price or charge" for boxes exactly
like hers and no such boxes were sold at the ticket office,
the basis for taxation should be sought in the established
price for the class of boxes actually on sale most like hers;
that it should, therefore, be assumed that the box office
price for the similar grand tier boxes was the "established
price at the ticket offices" of parterre boxes; and that,
with such price as a standard, the calculation involved in
determining the item of "any tax imposed by paragraph
(1)," and in assessing the supertax under paragraph (3)
should be made.2
Miss Iselin contended that § 800(a) had no application
to stockholders' boxes or tickets; that the section provided for a tax only on the tickets customarily sold at box
offices, for which there is an' established price there, and
which are commonly sold at news stands, hotels and other
places of business for higher prices; that it was the purpose of Congress to impose a small tax upon tickets sold
at the ticket office, a moderate tax on those sold at a moderate advance over the ticket office price, and a large tax
upon any resale of admission tickets if made at a price
above a reasonable advance on the regular price, and
also a large tax upon an original sale, if made at a price
in excess of the regular or established price; that tickets
issued under the peculiar circumstances stated, which
were received by her as an incident of her investment in

the lessor company and in return for obligations assumed
by her as a stockholder to ensure performance of operas,
were not within the purview of the section; that she was
Paragraph (1) provides:
"A tax of 1 cent for each 10 cents or fraction thereof of the amount
paid for admission to any place .
including admission by season
ticket or subscription, to be paid by the person paying for such
admission."
2

ISELIN v. UNITED STATES.
245

Opinion of the Court.

not taxable at all, since her tickets had not been sold at
a box office and there was no established price for them:
but that if taxable, it could be only under paragraph 5,
under which she had without protest paid a tax on these
tickets amounting to $242.'
The Court of Claims held that the tax was properly
assessed under paragraph 3. It concluded that there was
an "established price" for box tickets of this character,
and that Miss Iselin herself had established the price, because, prior to the assessment to her of the tax here in
question, she had paid without protest a tax assessed
under paragraph 5, the amount of which the Government
had determined by fixing $60 as the established price on
which the tax so paid was calculated. The court held that
the term "established price" did not imply a fixing of
the price by the producing company or others having the
general power of establishing the prices of tickets; that
it was of no legal significance that plaintiff had in fact
made no sale at the price fixed in the assessment, that she
had actually sold the tickets for the different performances at widely varying prices, and that no sale had been
made of such tickets at the ticket office.
The Government concedes that neither paragraph 1,
paragraph 3, paragraph 4, paragraph 5, nor any other
paragraph' of § 800(a), provides in terms for taxing a
3Paragraph (5) provides:
"In the case of persons having the permanent use of boxes or seats
in an opera house or any place of amusement or a lease for the use
of such box or seat in such opera house or place of amusement (in
lieu of the tax imposed by paragraph (1)) a tax equivalent to 10
per centum of the amount for which a similar box or seat is sold for
each performance or exhibition at which the box or seat is used or
reserved by or for the lessee or holder, such tax to be paid by said
lessee or holder; and
.
4The
remaining paragraphs, so far as they impose a tax, are:
"(2) In case of persons (except . . ) admitted free or at reduced rates to any place at a time when and under circumstances
unuMjr which an admission charge is made to other persons, a tax of

250

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

privilege like that enjoyed by the plaintiff. It makes no
contention here that the tax can be sustained under any
paragraph of § 800(a) unless it be paragraph 3. It argues
that Congress clearly intended to tax all sales of tickets;
that there is in'the section no indication of intention to
exempt from the tax any sale of tickets or any resale at a
profit; that the receipts here taxed are in character substantially similar to those specifically described in paragraph 3; that this. general purpose of Congress should be
given effect, so as to reach any case within the aim of the
legislation; and that the Act should, therefore, be extended by construction to cover this case. It may be
assumed that Congress did not purpose to exempt from
taxation this class of tickets. But the Act contains no
provision referring to tickets of the character here involved; and there is no general provision in the Act under which classes of tickets not enumerated are subjected
to a tax. Congress undertook to accomplish its purpose
by dealing specifically, and in some respects differently,
with different classes of tickets and with tickets of any one
class under different situations. The particularization and
detail with which the scope of each provision, the amount
of the tax thereby imposed, and the incidence of the tax,
were specified, preclude an extension of any provision by
implication to any other subject. The statute was evidently drawn with care. Its language is plain and unam1 cent for each 10 cents or fraction thereof of the price so charged to
such other persons for the same or similar accommodations to be
paid by the persoa so admitted;
"(6) A tax of I ', cents for each 10 cents or fraction thereof of the
amount paid for :mission to any public performance for profit at
any roof garden, i:iiaret, or other similar entertainment, to which the
charge for admissioa is wholly or in part included in the price paid
for refreshment, service, or merchandise; the amount paid for such
admission to be de-,med to be 20 per centum of the amount paid for
refreshment, seri ,, and merchandise; such tax to be paid by the
person paying fo
ich refreshment, service, or merchandise."

MIDLAND LAND, ETC., CO. v. U. S.
245

,251

Syllabus.

biguous. What the Government asks is not a construction
of a statute, but, in effect, an enlargement of it by the
court, so that what was omitted, presumably by inadvertence, may be included within its scope. To supply omissions transcends the judicial function. Compare United
States v. Weitzel, 246 U. S. 533, 543; Peoria & Pekin
Union Ry. Co. v. United States, 263 U. S. 528, 534, 535.
The Government calls attention to the fact that, as
early as October 24, 1919, the Commissioner of Internal
Revenue made the ruling pursuant to which the tax here
in question was assessed; that on March 22, 1920, the
Attorney General sustained that ruling; that the provisions here in question were re-enacted without substantial
change in the Revenue Act of 1921, Act of November 23,
1921, § 800(a), c. 136, 42 Stat. 227, and the Revenue Act
of 1924, Act of June 2, 1924, § 500(a), c. 234, 43 Stat.
253; and that the administrative practice adopted in 1919
has been steadfastly pursued. It suggests that these facts
imply legislative recognition and approval of the executive construction of the statute. But the construction
was neither uniform, general, nor long-continued; neither
is the statute ambiguous. Such departmental construction cannot be given the force and effect of law. Com-.
pare United States v. Falk & Brother, 204 U. S. 143;
National Lead Co. v. United States, 252 U. S. 140, 146.
Reversed.
MIDLAND LAND & IMPROVEMENT COMPANY
v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 105.

Argued January 8, 1926.-Decided March 1, 1926.

Where a contractor, though not in default, abandons the work and
refuses to complete the contract, the Government may re-let the
unfinished work to another and apply retained percentages towards
recoupment of additional expenses so incurred.
58 Ct. Cls. 671, affirmed.

