SEABOARD CO. v. CHICAGO,
349

ETC.,

RY. CO. 363

Syllabus.

the "bills of exceptions," and in a memorandum subsequently filed by the District Judge, that the case was
heard and taken under advisement in April, while the
opinion was filed and
the judgment entered in August,
/
that is, after the commencement of a new term of court.
There was no exception to the judgment on this ground,
and no assignment of error in reference to this matter.
And even if the statements thus made by the District
Judge, after the writ of error had issued, could be looked
to for the purpose of contradicting a specific recital in the
judgment that it was entered on the same day on which
the case was heard and argued, the contention is in conflict with the. long established practice and: immemorial
usage of the federal courts in this respect, and entirely
wanting in merit.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.

'SEABOARD RICE MILLING COMPANY v. CHICAGO, ROCK ISLAND & PACIFIC RAILWAY
COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
- THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.

No. 311.

Motion to affirm submitted January 25, 1926.-Decided
March 1, 1926.

1. Under § 51, Judicial Code, a suit brought by a non-resident in
the District Court upon the basis of diverse citizenship, or because
it arises under the laws of the United States, must be dismissed
for want of jurisdiction over the person of. the defendant, if the
defendant be not a resident of the district, and seasonably assert
his privilege. P. 365.
2. A corporation (within the meaning of the jurisdictional statutes)
is a resident 'of the' State in which it is incorporated, and not a
resident or inhabitant of any other State-even of one within which
it is engaged in business. P. 366.

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.

364

Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

3. Section 28, Judicial Code, allowing removal of suits of which the
District Courts " are given original jurisdiction," relates to the
general jurisdiction of those courts and not to their local jurisdiction
over the defendant's person, dealt with in § 51; so that the fact
that a suit between non-residents might have been brought in the
state court and removed to the District Court does not show that,
if brought originally in the District Court, it could have been
retained there over the defendant's objection. P. 366.
Affirmed on motion.
ERROR to a judgment of the District Court dismissing
an action for want of jurisdiction over the defendant.

Messrs. Thomas P. Littlepage,Lon 0. Hocker, Frank H.
Sullivan, W. F. Dickinson, Luther Burns, and M. L. Bell,
for the defendant in error, in support of the mhotion.
Mr. Alfred A. Hagerty for the plaintiff in error, in
opposition thereto.
MR.
Court.

JUSTICE

SANFORD

delivered the opinion of the

This is an action at law brought by the Milling Company against the Railway Company, in the District Court
for the Eastern District of Missouri, to recover the sum
of $3,035.73 for damages alleged to have been sustained
through the negligence of the Railway Company, the
initial carrier, and its connecting carriers, in the interstate
transportation of rice shipped from Arkansas to New
York. The Railway Company, appearing specially, filed
a plea to the jurisdiction, on the ground that neither it
nor the Milling Company was a resident or inhabitant of
the district. This plea was sustained, without opinion,
and the suit was dismissed for want of jurisdiction. This
direct writ of error was allowed and the jurisdictional
question certified, in February, 1925, under § 238 of the
Judicial Code.
The Railway Company has interposed a motion to
affirm the judgment, upon the ground that the question

. SEABOARD CO. v. CHICAGO, ETC., RY. CO. 365
363

Opinion of the Court.

upon which the decision depends is so unsubstantial as
not to need further argument. Hodges' v. Snyder, 261
U. S. 600, 601. This motion must be granted.
The declaration and the testimony heard upon the plea
show that the Milling Company is a corporation organized
under the laws of Texas; and that the Railway Company
is a corpbration organized under the laws of Illinois and
Iowa, having its principal office in Chicago, but maintaining a branch office and operating a branch line within the
eastern district of Missouri.
Section 51 of the Judicial Code, which deals with the
venue of suits originally begun in -the District Courtsre-enacting in part a similar provision in the Judiciary
Act of 1888' provides, subject to certain exceptions not
material here, that "no civil suit shall be brought in any
district court against any person by any original process
or proceeding in any other district than that whereof he
is an inhabitant;. but where the jurisdiction is founded
only on the fact that the action is between citizens of
different States, suit shall be brought only in the district
of the residence of either thd plaintiff or the defendant."
That is to say, the suit must be brought within the district
of which.the defendant is an inhabitant, unless the general
federal jurisdiction is founded upon diversity of citizenship alone, in which ,case it must be brought either in that
district or in the district in which the plaintiff resides.
.While this provision does not limit the general jurisdiction of the District Courts, it confers a personal privilege
on the defendant, which he may assert, or may waive, at
his election, if sued in some'other district. Lee v. Chesapeake Railway, 260 U. S. 653, 655; and cases cited. If
this privilege is seasonably asserted, the suit must be dismissed for want of jurisdiction over the person of the
defendant. Macon Grocery Co. v. Atlantic Coast Line,
215 U. S. 501, 510; and cases cited.
125 Stat. 433, 434, c. 866.

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

It is immaterial whether the general federal jurisdiction
in the present suit is founded upon diversity of citizenship
alone, or whether the suit is also one arising under the
laws of the United States, since neither the Milling Company nor the Railway Company is a resident of the Eastern District of Missouri; a corporation being, within the
meaning of the jurisdictional statutes, a resident of the
State in which it is incorporated, and not a resident or
inhabitant of any other State, although it may be engaged
in business within such other State. Re Keasbey &
Mattison Co., 160 U. S. 221, 229; Macon Grocery Co. v.
Atlantic Coast Line, supra,509; and cases cited.
The Milling Company contends, however, that since it
might have brought the suit originally in a state court of
concurrent jurisdiction within the Eastern District of
Missouri, in which the Railway Company is transacting
business, and the Railway Company, under the decisions
in General Investment Co. v. Lake Shore Railway, 260
U. S. 261, and Lee v. Chesapeake Railway, supra, might:
then have removed it to the District Court, this necessarily ivolves the conclusion that the District Court also
has "original jurisdiction" of the suit, since § 28 of the
Judicial Code provides only for the removal of suits of
which the District Courts "are given original jurisdiction." The fallacy of this argument lies in the failure to
distinguish between the general jurisdiction of the District Courts, to which § 28 relates, and the local jurisdiction over the person of the defendant, to which § 51
relates. The same contentioh was made, in a converse
form, in the General Investment Company Case, in which
it was trgued that a suit could not be removed from a
state court to a district court in which, under § 51, it could
not have been brought over the defendant's objection,
since it was not a suit of which the District Court was
given "original jurisdiction;" and it is completely answered by the holding in that case, at p. 275, that the term

SEABOARD CO. v. CHICAGO,

ETC.,

RY. CO. 367

Opinion of the Court.

363

"original jurisdiction" as used in § 28 refers only to the
general jurisdiction conferred on the District Courts, and
does not relate to the venue provision in § 51; there being
"no purpose in extending to removals the personal privilege accorded to defendants by § 51, since removals are
had only at the instance of defendants." This was approved and followed in Lee v. Chesapeake Railway, supra,
657.
Whether the suit be originally brought in the District
Court. or removed from a state court, the general federal
jurisdiction is the same; and the venue or local jurisdiction of the District Court over the person of the defendant is dependent irthe one case as in the other upon the.
voluntary action of the non-resident defendant, being
acquired in an original suit by his waiver of objection to
the venue, and in a removed suit by his application for
the removal to the District Court.
Since the question does not require further argument,
the motion of the Railway Company is granted, and the
judgment of the District Court is

Affirmed.
GENERAL AMERICAN TANK CAR CORPORATION
ET AL.

v. DAY, SHERIFF AND EX-OFFICIO TAX

COLLECTOR.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICr OF LOUISIANA

No. 162. Argued January 21, '1926.-Decided March 1, 1926.
1. A decision by the highest state court holding a state tax conformable to the requirement of the constitution of the State
as regards uniformity of taxation, is binding on this Court.
P. 371.
.2. A state tax imposed, in lieu of local taxes, on rolling stock
which is owned by non-resident corporations having no domicile
in the State and is operated over riilroads within' the State
(Act 109, La. Ls. 1921'), is not objectionable, under the Corn-

