FLEISCHMANN CO. v. UNITED STATES.
347

349

Syllabus.

The general allegations of "fraud" and "coercion"
were mere conclusions of the pleader; and were not admitted by the demurrer. Fogg v. Blair, 139 U. S. 118,
127. To show a cause of action it was necessary that the
petition state distinctly the particular acts of fraud and
-coercion relied 'on, specifying by whom and in what
manner they were perpetrated, with such definiteness and
reasonable certainty that the court might see that, if
proved, they would warrant the setting aside of the settlement. See Stearns v. Page, 7 How. 818, 829; PerkinsCampbell Co. v. United States, 264 U. S. 213, 218; Cairo
Railroad v. United States, 267 U. S. 350, 352. The petition contained no such specific allegations; and since its
vague and general averments did not overcome the effect
of the release, the demurrer was properly sustained. Se6
St. Louis Railroad v. United States, 267 U. S. 346, 350.
The judgment of the Court of Claims is
Affirmed.

FLEISCHMANN CONSTRUCTION COMPANY ET AL.
v. UNITED STATES TO THE USE OF FORSBERG
ET AL.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE J'OURTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 50.

Argued October 15, 1925.-Decided March 1, 1926.

1. A bill of exceptions is not valid as to any matter that was not
excepted to at the trial, and can not incorporate into the record
nunc pro tune, as of the time when an exception should have been
taken, one which in fact was not then taken. P. 356.
2. In a law case tried by the District Court without a jury, (Rev.
Stats. §§ 649, 700,) where there are no special findings of fact,
and no exceptions to rulings of law taken during the trial %nd
preserved by bill of exceptions, questions relating to matters of
fact or conclusions of law embodied in the general finding are not
reviewable. P. 355.

350

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Statement of the Case.

270 U. S.

3. But preliminary rulings on the pleadings made by the District
Court under its general authority, before the issues are submitted
under the statutory stipulation, are reviewable as in ordinary cases,
independently of the statute. P. 357.
4. Under the Materialmen's Act, if suit on a contractor's bond be
not brought by the United States "within six months from the
completion and final settlement" of the contract, suit by any
person who supplied labor or materials, etc., may be brought in
the name of the United States, "within one year after the performance and final settlement of the contract," but not later. Held
that allegations in the use plaintiff's declaration and in intervening
petitions, that the contract was "completed and final settlement
had" on a date specified, more than six months, but within a year,
before institution of the suit, were not mere conclusions of law but
allegations of fact. P. 358.
5. Amendments, in such a suit, which do not set up a new cause of
action, but merely supplement the defective statement of previously
existing rights, relate back, and may be filed after expiration of
the year following final settlement. So held where the amendments
brought in a supplementary contract amending, but not otherwise
affecting, the original construction contract. P. 359.
6. The strict letter of an Act must yield to its evident spirit and
purpose, when this is necessary to effectuate the intent; and unjust
or absurd consequences are to be avoided if possible. P. 359.
7. The Materialmen's Act provides'that where suit is instituted by
a creditor or creditors, only one action shall be brought, which
must be within one year from "performance and final settlement"
of the contract, and any creditor may file his claim and be made
a party within one year from the completion of the "work" under
the contract, and not later. Held, in view of the remedial purpose
of the Act and the liberal construction called for, that intervening
claimants, like original plaintiffs, have one year from final settlement. P. 360.
8. Amendments held germane to causes of action originally alleged.
P. 362.
9. A judgment of the District Court may validly be entered at a
term following that in which the case was heard and taken under
advisement. P. 363.
298 Fed. 330, affirmed.

ERROR to a judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals
which affirmed a judgment of the District Court (298

FLEISCHMANN CO. v. UNITED STATES. 351
349

Opinion of the Court.

Fed. 320) recovered by the plaintiffs and intervening
claimants, in a suit against a contractor and surety, under
the federal Materialmen's Act.
Mr. Levi H. David, with whom Mr. William F. Kimber
was on the brief, for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. Bynum E. Hinton, with whom Messrs. David W.
Kahn, Milton M. Leichter, and Isidor Weissberger were
on the briefs, for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE SANFORD delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is a suit under the Materialmen's Act of 1894, 28
Stat. 278, c. 280, as amended by the Act of 1905, c. 778.'
It was brought in the name of the United States by
Forsberg, a materialman, as use plaintiff, in the federal
district court for Eastern Virginia, to recover on a bond
given by the Fleischmann Construction Company, as
contractor, and the National Surety Company, as surety,
for the construction, under a contract with the United
States, of a torpedo assembly plant in Alexandria. Various materialmen and subcontractors filed intervening
petitions in the suit. The plaintiff and the inteewenors
recovered judgment, 298 Fed. 320, which was affirmed by
the Circuit Court of Appeals, 298 Fed. 330. This writ of
error was allowed in March, 1924. A motion was interposed to dismiss the writ of error upon the ground that
the record presents no question properly reviewable by
this Court, or to affirm the judgment; the consideration
of which was postponed to the hearing on the merits.
The Materialmen's Act, as amended,' provides that the
usual penal bond required of anyone entering into a contract with the United States for the construction of any
33 Stat. 811. This is set forth in full in the margin of Texas
Cement Co. v. McCord, 233 U. S. 157, 160, note 1.

352

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

public work, shall contain an additional obligation for
the payment by the contractor of'all persons supplying
labor and materials in the prosecution of the work. Any
such person not thus paid may intervene in any action
instituted by the United States on the bond and obtain
judgment pro rata with other intervenors, subject to the
priority of the claim of the United States. If no suit is
brought by the United States "within six months from
the completion and final settlement" of the contract, any
such ,person shall have a right of action upon, the bond,
and may, "within 'one year after the performance and
final settlement" of the contract, but not later, commence
suit against the contractor and his sureties, in the name
of the United States, for his use and benefit, in the federal
court of the district in which the contract was performed,
and prosecute the same to final judgment and execution.
Where suit "is so instituted by a creditor or by creditors,
only one action shall be brought; and any creditor may
file his claim in such action- and be made party thereto
within one year from the completion of the work under
said contrapt, and not later." If the recovery on the bond
is inadequate to pay the amounts due to all of the credi.tors, judgmeht shall be given to each pro rata.
The first question to be determined is whether any of
the matters presented by the assignment of errors-which
relate chiefly to the times at which the suit was brought
and the intervening petitions filed-are now open to
review upqn the record.
Shortly outlined, the proceedings in the case were
these: The suit was brought by Forsberg on April 6, 1921.
The declaration alleged that the Construction Company
entered into a contract with the United States for the
construction of the plant and gave bond to secure its performance, in October, 1918; and that this contract "was
completed and final, settlement had on" September 25,
1920, "more than six months and within one year before"

FLEISCHMANN CO. v. UNITED STATES.
349

353

Opinion of the Court.

the filing of the suit. The intervening petitions, which
were filed between June 15 and September 24, 1921, contained substantially the same general averments as the
declaration, and alleged further that they were filed "before the expiration of one year after the completion" of
the contract. In December, 1921, the plaintiff, by leave
of court, amended the declaration so as to allege that the
original contract had been amended by a supplemental
contract in May, 1919, and the defendants had thereafter
executed an additional bond; and that the contract as
amended "was completed and final settlement had" on
September 25, 1920. The intervening petitions were likewise amended so as to incorporate substantially these
same averments, and allege further that the petitions
were filed "before the expiration of one year after the
"completion of said original contract as amended."
The defendants filed demurrers to the original and
amended declaration, and petitions. All of these were
overruled. And the amended declaration and petitions
were then put at issue under pleas filed by the defendants.
By agreement of all the parties the case was referred to
a special master to hear the evidence and find the facts.
In his report, he found that the work was completed
February. 5, 1920, and that the date of final settlement
wag October 1, 1920.
Thereafter, in April, 1923, before action had been taken
on this report, the parties filed a written stipulation, under
§ 649 of the Revised Statutes, waiving a jury and agreeing
that all the issues might be tried and determined by the
court.
In August, the District Judge handed down an extended
written opinion in which he considered the entire case as
to the facts and law, and concluded, inter alia, that the
master had found correctly that the date of the final settlement was October 1, 1920;. that it was unnecessary to
determine the date on which the work had been com100569 ° -26---23

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

pleted, since the intervenors had filed their petitions
within one year after the final settlement; that the actions
were not barred because the amendments setting up the
supplemental contract were made more than a year after
the final settlement, the original and supplemental contracts being one and the same, and the amendments relating back to the bringing of the original suit and the filing
of the original petition; and that the claims of the plaintiff
and the intervenors were severally established. No special findings of fact had been requested; and none were
made.
On the same day a judgment was entered, which "for
reasons stated" in the opinion, awarded the plaintiff and
the intervenors recoveries upon their several claims, the
aggregate of which was less than the amount of either
bond.
The defendants, without having excepted to any of the
rulings or conclusions of the court or requested any special
findings of fact, sued out, in September, a writ of error from
the Circuit Court of Appeals. After this writ had issued,
however, the District Judge, in October, granted them a
"bill of exceptions," which recited that the court had filed
its opinion and entered its final judgment on the same
day, without notice to the parties; set forth various exceptions then, for the first time, noted by the defendants "to
the rulings, findings of fact and conclusions of law by the
court" in the opinion and judgment; and stated that, by
reason of the circumstances, these exceptions were "to be
taken as severally made at the time thereof and before
the entry of judgment thereon." And later the District
Judge granted them another " bill of exceptions," embodying the evidence and the proceedings before the master,
and setting forth in the same manner other exceptions to
be taken, for like reason, as made before the entry of the
judgment.
The Circuit Court 9f Appeals disposed of the case in a
per curiam opinion stating that, while there was a serious

FLEISCHMANN CO. v. UNITED STATES.
349

355

Opinion of the Court.

question whether there was anything before it because of
the want of due exceptions, it preferred to rest the affirmance of the judgment on the merits, as it thought the
District Court was clearly right on all the points decided.
1. The assignment of errors challenges the affirmance of
the judgment because of the action of the District Court
in overruling the demurrers to the original and amended
declaration and petitions; in allowing the amendments to
the original declaration and petitions; and in making
various other "holdings" and " findings" in reference to
matters of law and fact. It is clear that none of these
questions are open to review except those which arise upon
the pleadings.
Section 700 of the Revised Statutes-re-enacting a like
provision in the Act of March 3, 1865, c. 86 2-provides
that when an issue of fact in a civil cause is tried and
determined by the court without the intervention of -'
jury, according to § 649, "the rulings of the court in the
progress of the trial of the cause, if excepted to at the
time, and duly presented by a bill of exceptions, may be
reviewed" upon writ of error; "and when the finding is
special the review may extend to the determination of the
sufficiency of the facts found to support the judgment."
The opinion of the trial judge, dealing generally with
the issues of law and fact and giving the reasons for his
conclusion, is not a special finding of facts within the
meaning of the statute. Insurance Co. v. Tweed, 7 Wall.
44, 51; Dickinson v. Planters' Bank, 16 Wall. 250, 257;
Raimond v. Terrebonne Parish,132 U. S. 192, 194; British
Mining Co. v. Baker Mining Co., 139 U. S.222; York v.
Washburn (C. C. A.), 129 Fed. 564, 566; United States
v. Stock Yards Co. (C. C. A.), 167 Fed. 126, 127. And it
is settled by repeated decisions, that in the absence of
special findings, the general finding of the court is conclusive upon all matters of fact, and prevents any inquiry
2

13 Stat. 500, 501.

356

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion If the Court.

270 U. S.

into the conclusioris of law embodied therein, except in
so far as the rulings during the progress of the trial were
excepted to and duly preserved by bill of exceptions, as
required by the statute. Norris v. Jackson, 9 Wall. 125,
128; Miller v. Insurance Co., 12 Wall. 285, 300; Dickinson
v. Planters' Bank, supra, 257; Insurance Co. v. Folsom,
18 Wall. 237, 248; Cooper v. Omohundro, 19 Wall. 65, 69;
Insurance Co. v. Sea, 21 Wall. 158, 161; Martinton v.
Fairbanks, 112 U. S. 670, 673; Boardman v. Tofley, 117
U. S. 271, 272; British Mining Co. v. Baker Mining Co.,
supra, 222; Lehnen v. Dickson, 148 U. S. 71, 73; St. Louis
v. Telegraph Co., 166 U. S. 388, 390; Vicksburg. Ry. v.
Anderson-Tully Co., 256 U. S. 408, 415; Law v. United
States, 266 U. S. 494, 496; Humphreys v. Third National
Bank (C. C. A.), 75 Fed. 852, 855; United States v. Stock
Yards Co., supra, 127. To obtain a review by an appellate court of the conclusions of law a party must either
obtain from the trial court special findings which raise the
legal propositions, or present the propositions of law to
the court and obtain a ruling on them. Norris v. Jackson,
supra, 129; Martintonv. Fairbanks,supra, 673. That is,
as was said in Humphreys v. Third National Bank, supra,
855, "he should request special findings of fact by the
court, framed like a special verdict of a jury, and then
reserve his exceptions to those special findings, if he deems
them not to be sustained by any evidence; and if he wishes
to except to the conclusions of law drawn by the court
from the facts found he should have them separately
stated and excepted to. In this way, and in this way only,
is it possible for him to review completely the action of
the court below upon the merits."
These rules necessarily exclude from our consideration
all the questions presented by the assignment of errors
except those arising on the pleadings. All the others
relate either to matters of fact or to conclusions of law
embodied in the general finding. These are not open to
review, as there were no speeial findings of fact and no

FLEISCHMANN CO. v. UNITED STATES.
349

357

Opinion of the Court.

exceptions to the rulings on matters of law were taken
during the progress of the trial or duly preserved by a bill
of exceptions. The defendants offered no exceptions to
the rulings of the court until'after the writ of error had
issued, transferring jurisdiction of the ease to the Court
of Appeals. And the recitals in the subsequent "bills of
exceptions" that the exceptions, then for the first time
presented, were to be taken as made before the entry of
the judgment, are nugatory. A bill of 'exceptions is not
valid as to any matter which was not excepted to at the
trial. Walton v. United States, 9 Wheat. 651, 657; Insurance Co. v.' Boon, 95 U. S. 117, 127. And it cannot
incorporate into the record nunc pro tunc as of the time
when an exception should have been taken, one which in
fact was not then taken. Walton v. United States, supra,
658; Turner v. Yates, 16 How. 14, 29.
The statute, however, relates only to those rulings of
law which are made in the course of the trial, and by its
terms has no application to the preliminary rulings of the
District Judge made, in the exercise of his general authority, before the issues are submitted to him for hearing
under the statutory stipulation. Such rulings on the
pleadings and the sufficiency of the complaint are therefore subject to review as in any other case, independently
of the statute. Norris v. Jackson, supra, 128; Martinton
v. Fairbanks, supra, 673; Lehnen v. Dickson, supra, 72;
St. Louis v. Telegraph Co., supra,390; Vicksburg Railway
v. Anderson-Tully Co., supra, 415. And see Campbell v.
Boyreau, 21 How. 223, 226, Bond v. Dustin, 112 .U. S.
604, 606, Erkel v. United States (C. C. A.), 169 Fed-. 623,
624, and Ladd Bank v. Hicks Co. (C. C. A.), 218 Fed..310,
311, as to the questions which are open to review where
the case is heard by the judge by consent, but without
the jurisdictional stipulation.
Since, therefore, the questions arising on the pleadings
in this case are now open to review, the motion to dismiss
the writ of error must be denied.

358

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

2. This brings us to the consideration of the questions
arising on the pleadings as to which errors are assigned.
We may assume for present purposes, without deciding,
that the defendants did not waive their demurrers by
pleading over to the merits after they had been overruled.
Compare, however, Young v. Martin, 8 Wall. 354, 357;
Stanton v. Embrey, 93 U. S. 548, 553; Teal v. Walker,
111 U. S. 242, 246; Bauserman v. Blunt, 147 U. S. 647,
652; Nalle v. Oyster, 230 U. S. 165, 174; Denver vHome
Savings Bank, 236 U. S. 101, 104; Harperv. Cunningham,
8 App. D. C. 430, 434.

The demurrers to the original declaration and petitions
were based upon the grounds that they were insufficient
in law, since the averment in the declaration that the
contract was completed and final settlement had on September 25, 1920, was a mere conclusion of law, and the
facts averred did not show that a right of action had
accrued or that the court had jurisdiction of the cause
when the suit was instituted. And the demurrers to the
amended declaration and petitions were based on like
grounds, and on the further ground that they set up new
causes of action and were not filed within the times required by the Materialmen's Act.
These demurrers were rightly overruled. The averments in the declaration, as originally filed and as
amended, that the contract between the Construction
Company and the United States was completed and
finally settled on September 25, 1920, were not mere
conclusions of law, but specific averments of an ultimate
fact, appropriately pleaded. And since, as appeared from
the record, the original suit was brought on April 6, 1921,
they showed upon their face that it was instituted more
than six months and "within one year after the performance and final settlement" of the contract, as required by the Act; thereby tendering an issue of fact as to
the date of the final settlement which was conclusively

FLEISCHMANN CO. v. UNITED STATES.
349

359

Opinion of the Court.

determined against the defendants by the general finding
of the court.
And although the amended declaration and petitions
showing the supplemental contract between the Construction Company and the United States, were filed more
than one year after the date of the final settlement, they
did not set up new causes of action at a time beyond that
permitted by the Act. The original declaration set forth
a provision in the original bond that it was given to secure
the performance of the contract "as it now exists or may
be modified according to its terms." And the supplemental contract-a copy of which was attached to and
made a part of the amended declaration-specifically provided that it should be regarded as amendatory of the
original contract; that all provisions and requirements of
the original contract should remain in full force, except
as specifically changed; and that the original bond should
not be released or otherwise affected, but should remain
in full force as though the changes provided for had been
included in the original contract; and it expressly recited.
that the Surety Company, which also signed the supplemental contract, was made a party thereto "for the purpose of extending the obligation of said bond to cover the
changes herein provided." It is clear that the amended
declaration and petitions did not set up new causes of
action, but merely supplemented by appropriate allegations the defective statements of the rights which had
existed when the original declaration and petitions were
filed; and that the amendments when made related back,
by operation of' law, to the dates on which the original
suit wag brought and the original petitions filed. Texas
Cement Co. v. McCord, 233 U. S. 157, 164; Illinois Surety
Co. v. Peeler, 240 U. S. 214, 222.
Furthermore, it was not essential that the petitions
should allege the date on which the work was completed,
in order to show that the intervenors' rights of action had

360

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

accrued when the claims were filed. It is urged that while
the Act permits the original suit to be brought "within
one year after the performance and final settlement" of
the contract, it requires intervening creditors to file their
claims in such action "within one year from the completion of the work" under the contract. It is obvious that
if this latter provision is to be taken literally, the time
allowed intervening creditors in which to file their claims
would .expire earlier than the time allowed for bringing
the original suit, since such suit might be instituted
within one year after the final settlement, but other creditors could only intervene within one year after the completion of the work, a period necessarily terminating
within less than a year after the final settlement.
The strict letter of an act must, however, yield to its
evident spirit and purpose, when this is necessary to give
effect to the intent of Congress. Holy Trinity Church v.
United States, 143 U. S. 457, 459; Ozawa v. United States,
260 U. S. 178, 194. And unjust or absurd consequences:
are, if possible, to be avoided. Lau Ow Bew v. United
States, 144 U. S. 47, 59; Hawaii v. Mankichi, 190 U. S.
197, 213.
The purpose of the Materialmen's Act, which is highly
remedial and must be construed liberally, is to provide
security for the payment of all persons who supply labor
or material in a public work, that is, to give all creditors
a remedy on the bond of the contractor, to be enforced
within a reasonable time in a single proceeding in which
all claimants shall unite. Bryant Co. v. Steam Fitting
Co., 235 U. S. 327, 337; Illinois Surety Co. v. Davis, 244
U. S. 376, 380. In resolving the ambiguities in its provisions the court must endeavot to give coherence to
them in order to accomplish the intention of Congress,
and adapt them to fulfill its whole purpose. Bryant Co.
v. Steam Fitting Co., supra, 337, 339. In this case it was
further stated, as the premise on which the court rested

FLEISCHMANN CO. 1. UNITED STATES.
349

361

Opinion of the Court.

the solution of the particular ambiguity there involved,
that the Act "imposes a limitation of time on all claimants,
. .
beginning to run from the same event,"
that is, the performancd and final settlement of the contract; and that., just as the creditor who institutes the
original suit has one year from the final settlement in
which to commeince-the action, other creditors must file
their claims "within the same limit of time." A like
construction of the Act was also adopted in Pederson v.
United States (C. C. A.), 253 Fed. 622, 626, and London
Indemnity Co. v. Smoot (App. D. C.) 287 Fed. 952, 956.
And this we now confirm.
By the terms of the Act no creditor can institute a suit
until after six months from the completion and final
settlement of the contract, within which period the
United States alone has the right to commence an action.
Texas Cement Co. v. McCord, supra, 163; Miller v. Bonding Co., 257 U. S. 304, 307. And if a suit is then instituted by a creditor or creditors, "only one action shall be
brought," and all shall file their claims in that suit. If,
therefore, the provision limiting the right of other creditors to file their 6laims to twelve months after the completion of the work, is to be taken literally, the result would
be that where, for any reason, the final settlement of the
contract between the United States and the contractor is
delayed until more than six months after the completion
of the work, as may frequently happen, the only creditors
who could recover on the contractor's bond would be those
who should succeed in first commencing a suit after the
expiration of the six months from the final settlement,
since more than a year having then elapsed after the completion of the work, other creditors would be. debarred.
from any recovery whatever, either in the suit thus
brought or in any independent action. In such case the
bond would be appropriated solely to the payment of the
debts due the creditors who instituted the suit; and 'to

362

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U.S.

the extent of any surplus the contractor and his surety
would be entirely released from liability.
It is clear, considering the entire provisions of the Act,
that such an anomalous and unreasonable result was not
intended, frustrating the plain purpose that the bond
should inure to the benefit of all creditors and that all
should share pro rata in the recovery. And to give effect
to the manifest intention of Congress it must be held that
the phrase "within one year from the completion of the
work" was used in reference to the filing of intervening
claims in the same sense as the phrase "within one year
after the performance and final settlement of the contract" in reference to the commencement of the original
suit; that is to say, not only that the original suit may
be commenced within one year after the performance and
final settlement of the contract but that other creditors
may file their claims in such suit within the same period
of time. In other words, as was said in the Bryant Co.
Case, there is the same limit of time for the commencement of the suit and for the filing of intervening claims,
"beginning to run from the same event," namely, the performance and final settlement of the contract; thereby
avoiding a race of diligence between creditors and bringing about the equality in the distribution of the avails of
the bond among all creditors which Congress obviously
intended.
3. We find no error in the allowance of the amendments to the declaration and petitions, setting up the
supplemental contract. Aside from the fact that the defendants did not object to the allowance of these amendments or except to the orders of the court permitting
them to be made, they were plainly germane to the causes
of action originally alleged; and, as already stated, did not
bring in any new causes of action. Their allowance was
entirely proper. Illinois Surety Co. v. Peeler, supra., 222.
4. It is also contended that the judgment of the District
Court is void for the reason that it is recited in one of

SEABOARD CO. v. CHICAGO,
349

ETC.,

RY. CO. 363

Syllabus.

the "bills of exceptions," and in a memorandum subsequently filed by the District Judge, that the case was
heard and taken under advisement in April, while the
opinion was filed and
the judgment entered in August,
/
that is, after the commencement of a new term of court.
There was no exception to the judgment on this ground,
and no assignment of error in reference to this matter.
And even if the statements thus made by the District
Judge, after the writ of error had issued, could be looked
to for the purpose of contradicting a specific recital in the
judgment that it was entered on the same day on which
the case was heard and argued, the contention is in conflict with the. long established practice and: immemorial
usage of the federal courts in this respect, and entirely
wanting in merit.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.

'SEABOARD RICE MILLING COMPANY v. CHICAGO, ROCK ISLAND & PACIFIC RAILWAY
COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
- THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.

No. 311.

Motion to affirm submitted January 25, 1926.-Decided
March 1, 1926.

1. Under § 51, Judicial Code, a suit brought by a non-resident in
the District Court upon the basis of diverse citizenship, or because
it arises under the laws of the United States, must be dismissed
for want of jurisdiction over the person of. the defendant, if the
defendant be not a resident of the district, and seasonably assert
his privilege. P. 365.
2. A corporation (within the meaning of the jurisdictional statutes)
is a resident 'of the' State in which it is incorporated, and not a
resident or inhabitant of any other State-even of one within which
it is engaged in business. P. 366.

