CHICAGO, I. & L. RY. v. U. S.

287

Syllabus.

CHICAGO, INDIANAPOLIS & LOUISVILLE RAILWAY COMPANY ET AL. v. UNITED STATES ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF INDIANA.

No. 150.

Argued January 19, 1926.-Decided March 1, 1926.

1. An order of th Interstate Commerce Commission requiring several
carriers to remove discrimination against another carrier resulting
from their refusal to make switching arrangements with it such as
exist among themselyes, does not require them to extend this service
to the other but leaves them free to remove the discrimination by
any appropriate action. P. 292.
2. The fact that a complaining carrier has physical connection with
only one of several other carriers is not a reason why the Commission may not order these to remove unjust discrimination against
the complaining carrier, found to result from a reciprocal switching
arrangement among the others from which it is excluded. Id.
3. The court can not substitute its judgment for that of the Commission as to the similarity of the circumstances and conditions of carriers charged with unjust discrimination to those of the complaining carrier. P. 293.
4. Where an electric railroad charged unjust discrimination in its
exclusion from a switching arrangement existmg among four steam
railroads,-held that the facts of its being an electric railroad,
connected physically with but one of the others, with relatively
limited terminal facilities, freight cars, industries on ks line, exchange points, and business to exchange, did not constitute, as a
matter of law, such difference of circumstances as negatives discrimination. Id.
5. The fact that an order to remove discrimination resulting to a
carrier from a traffic interchange arrangement existing among other
carriers may, as a practical matter, require them to admit it to a
part in business adequately hindled by them, does not make the
order a taking of property without due process of law. P. 294.
6. The provision of the Transportation Act, 1920, § 418, Interstate
Commerce Act § 15(3), forbidding the Commission to establish
any through route, etc., between street electric passenger railways
not engaged in the general business of transporting freight in addition to their passenger and express business, and railroads of a
different character, does not deprive the Commission of jurisdiction

288

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for Appellants.

270 U. S.

to order steam railroads to desist from discrimination in switching
against a complaining electric railroad, not engaged in general
transportation of freight. P. 294.
7. A finding of the Commission that an electric railroad was engaged
in the general transportation of freight, held conclusive, where the
evidence taken before the Commission was not introduced in the
court below. P. 295.
Affirmed.

APPEAL from a decree of the District Court denying a
preliminary injunction, in a suit by appellant railway
companies against the United States, to suspend and set
aside an order of the Interstate Commerce Commission.
The Commission and an electric railroad, on whose behalf
the order was entered, intervened.
Messrs. C. C. Hine and E. S. Ballard, with whom Mr.
William L. Taylorwas on the brief, for appellants.
An order of the Commission that is contrary to the
facts, is contrary to law, and should be set aside. Interstate Commerce Commission v. L. & N. R. Co., 227 U. S.
88; St. Louis, I. M. & S. R. Co. v. United States, 217
Fed. 80; United States v. Louisiana & P. R. Co., 234
U. S. 1.
The order is contrary to, and not sustained by, the
undisputed facts, because: (a) Unlawful discrimination
cannot exist unless there is a physical connection by the
carrier alleged to be guilty of the discrimination with the
railroad or shipper claiming to be discriminated against,
or a service being performed for the railroad or shipper
discriminated against through the medium of joint routes
or joint rates. Here, three of the appellants do not come
in contact and have no physical connection with the South
Shore and its shippers, and do not perform any service for
them through the medium of -joint routes or joint rates.
St. Louis, I. M. & S. R. Co. v. United States, 217 Fed. 80;
St. Louis S. W. R. Co. v. United States, 245 U. S. 136;
Central R. Co. of N. J. v. United States, 257 U. S. 247.

CHICAGO, I. & L. RY. v. U. S.
287

Opinion of the Court.

(b) The circumstances and conditions are dissimilar.
United States v. Oregon R. R. & Navigation Co., 159 Fed.
975; Seaboard Air Line v. United States, 254 U. S. 57;
Central R. Co. of N. J. v. United States, 257 U. S. 247.
The order deprives these appellants of their property
without due process of law, in violation of the Fifth
Amendment. L. & N. R. Co. v. Central Stock Yards,
212 U. S. 132; C. I. & L. R. Co. v. Public Service Commission, 188 Ind. 334; Indiana Harbor Belt R. Co. v.
Public Service Commission, 187 Ind. 660.
No satisfactory evidence was introduced before the
Commission to show that the South Shore is such a common carrier as comes within the provisions of the Interstate Commerce Act. United States v. Village of Hubbard, 266 U. S. 474; United States v. Abilene & S. R. Co.,
265 U. S. 274; Interstate Commerce Commission v. L. &
N., 227 U. S. 88.
Mr. Blackburn Esterline, Assistant to the Solicitor
General, with whom Solicitor General Mitchell was on
the brief, for the United States.
Mr. R. Granville Curry, with whom Mr. P. J. Farrell
was on the brief, for the Interstate Commerce Commission.
Mr. Ernest S. Ballard, with whom Messrs. Rush C.,
Butler, William E. Lamb, and James Dale Thorn were on
the brief, for Chicago, Lake Shore and South Bend Railway Company.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Four steam railroads whose lines enter Michigan City,
Indiana, brought this suit against the United States, in
the federal district court for that State, to set aside an
order of the Interstate Commerce Commission entered
100569 °-

2 6 --

19

290

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

April 2, 1924. The order directed the steam railroads to
remove the unjust discrimination which the Commission
found was being practiced against an electric railroad,
which also entered that city, by refusal to switch its interstate carload traffic and to make arrangements with it for
reciprocal switching. Chicago, Lake Shore & South Bend
Ry. Co. v. Lake Erie & Western R. R. Co., 88 I. C. C. 525.
The order was assailed on the grounds,-that the facts
found did not in law sustain the finding of unjust discrimination; that the order deprives the plaintiffs of their
property in violation of the due process clause; and that
the electric railroad was not shown to be within the class
of carriers entitled to relief against discrimination. The
Commission and the electric railroad on whose behalf the
order was entered intervened in the suit as defendants.
The case was heard before three judges on application
for a preliminary injunction, which was denied without
opinion. It is here on direct appeal under the Act of
October 22, 1913, c. 32, 38 Stat. 208, 220.
The essential facts are these. The Chicago, Lake Shore
& South Bend Railway Company, sometimes called the
South Shore, is an electric passenger railroad which is engaged also in the general transportation of freight.
Indiana Passenger Fares, etc., 69 1. C. C. 180. Its line
extends from South Bend, Indiana, to Kensington, a
station within the corporate limits of Chicago. At
Michigan City it has physical connection with the Lake
Erie and Western-a steam railroad which is a part of the
New York Central system. The Lake Erie refused to
establish through routes and joint rates to or from points
on the South Shore, and also refused to establish with it
satisfactory interchange switching charges to industries at
Michigan City. It had established such switching interchange with the three other steam railroads which enter
that city-the Chicago, Indianapolis & Louisville, commonly called the Monon, the Michigan Central and the

CHICAGO, I. & L. RY. v. U. S.
287

Opinion of the Court.

Pere Marquette. To remove the alleged discrimination,
the South Shore brought against the Lake Erie alone the
proceeding reported in Chicago, Lake Shore & South. Bend
Ry. Co. v. Director General, 58 I. C. C. 647. By the
order there entered the Lake Erie was directed to establish such through routes and joint rates with the South
Shore, and was also directed to cease and desist from discriminating by refusing to perform reciprocal switching
service with it while performing such switching with the
three steam railroads named. The Lake Erie elected to
remove the discrimination by entering into such recinrocal
switching arrangements with the South Shore.
None of the other three steam railroads had been a
party to the proceeding against the Lake Erie. None of
them had established through routes or joint rates. with
the South Shore to points on its line. Each of them refused to enter into an arrangement with it for reciprocal
switching. But each of the four steam railroads had an
arrangement for reciprocal switching with each of the
others. Thus the South Shore still remained at a disadvantage in handling traffic at Michigan City. To remove
the discrimination so arising, a second petition was filed,
which resulted in the order here assailed. The position
of the other steam railroads differed in one respect from
the Lake Erie. It alone had a direct physical connection
with the South Shore at Michigan City. Cars from the
South Shore could not reach either the Michigan Central
or the Monon without passing over tracks of the Lake
Erie. They could not reach the Pere Marquette without
passing over tracks of both the Lake Erie and the Monon.
The South Shore was within the switching district at
Michigan City, and through routes and arrangements
were already in effect by which traffic from the Monon,
the Michigan Central and the Pere Marquette would be
delivered there to the South Shore as an industry; and
on such traffic the switching charges would be absorbed.

292

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

Compare Missouri Pacific R. R. Co. v. Reynolds-Davis
Grocery Co., 268 U. S. 366. The refusal of the steam
railroads complained of relates to interchange traffic with
the South Shore as a carrier for shippers on its line. The
Commission found that this refusal constituted a discrimination, because each steam railroad rendered a like
service for each of the others. The steam railroads contend that the circumstances and conditions in respect of
the steam railroads were not similar, and that, hence,
there could not in law be unjust discrimination. But the
absence of direct physical connection between the South
Shore and the three steam railroads other than the Lake
Erie is the basis of the main attack upon the validity of
the order.
First. The steam railroads contend that, in effect, the
order directs them to establish through routes and joint
rates, or to allow a common use of terminals; that such
extensions of service can legally be made only upon a
finding that public necessity and convenience require
them, Transportation Act, 1920, c. 91, amending Interstate Commerce Act, § 1, par. 21; § 3, par. 4; § 15, pars.
3 and 4, 41 Stat. 456, 478, 479, 485, 486; and that, without
making such a finding, the Commission has, under the
guise of a discrimination order, compelled them to extend
their service. It is argued that, as a matter of law, a
carrier cannot be guilty of unjust discrimination unless it
is able by its own act to remove the inequality; that
where there is no direct physical connection with the
railroad alleged to be discriminated against, and no joint
service is being rendered by the three steam railroads
with the South Shore, there cannot, in law, be unjust
discrimination, because the existing inequality can be
removed only by the consent of a third party, the intermediate carrier.
The order does not require the steam railroads to extend
any service to the South Shore. It leaves them free to

CHICAGO, I. & L. RY. v. U. S.
287

Opinion of the Court.

remove the discrimination by any appi opriate action.
American Express Co. v. Caldwell, 244 U. S. 617, 624;
United States v. Illinois Central R. R. Co., 263 U. S.
515, 521. Direct physical connection with the carrier
subjected to prejudice is not an essential. St. Louis
Southwestern Ry. Co. v. United States, 245 U. S. 136,
144. Unjust discrimination may exist in law as well as
in fact, although the injury is inflicted by a railroad which
has no such direct connection. Wherever discrimination
is, in fact, practiced, an order to remove it may issue; and
the order may extend to every carrier who participates in
inflicting the injury. United States v. Pennsylvania
R. R. Co., 266 U. S.191, 197-9. There is nothing to the
contrary in Central R. R. Co. of N. J. v. United States,
257 U. S. 247. The relief sought there was denied
solely because the Central, although it participated in
establishing the through route and joint rate, did not
participate in the service which alone was alleged to constitute discrimination. Here e1ch of the steam railroads
was an effective instrument of the discrimination complained of.
Second. Itis contended that the circumstances and conditions under which the interchange switching service was
performed by the steam railroads for each other were
essentially dissimilar from those under which such service
would be performed for the South Shore. As establishing
dissimilarity, the steam railroads point to the South
Shore's absence of direct physical connection with any of
the carriers except the Lake Erie; to the South Shore's
relatively limited terminal facilities at Michigan City; to
its relatively small number of freight cars; to the relative
fewness of industries on its line; to the fact that the steam
railroads exchange traffic at many points, while the South
Shore will exchange traffic with them only at Michigan
City; to the fact -that the South Shore will originate
relatively little business which can pass to the lines of

294

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

the steam railroads, while they originate much which may
pass to the South Shore. Despite these facts, the Commission found that the circumstances and conditions were
similar. The court cannot substitute its judgment for
that of the Commission. United States v. New River Co.,
265 U. S. 533, 542. The alleged lack of reciprocity and
the other facts stated do not constitute, as a matter of law,
differentiating circumstances which negative discrimination.
Compare Pennsylvania Co. v. United States, 236
U. S. 351, 364; United States v. Illinois Central R. R. Co.,
263 U. S.515, 523.
Third. It is contended that the order takes the steam
railroads' property without due process of law. The
argument is that, while in form the order leaves open to
them alternatives, no one would seriously urge that they
can, as a practical matter, comply with the Commission's
order by ceasing to interchange traffic between themselves, as that would be contrary to obvious public interest
and necessity; that, therefore, in effect, the order requires
them to permit the South Shore to take a part of the
business which they are handling adequately; that business now enjoyed by them is their property, and that the
order, therefore, amounts to taking their property in
violation of the Constitution. Substantially the same
objection was made and overruled in Pennsylvania Co.
v. United States, 236 U. S. 351, and Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v. 'United States, 238 U. S. 1, 20. Compare Seaboard Air Line Ry. Co. v. United States, 254
U. S. 57; United States v. Illinois Central R. R. Co., 263
U. S. 515, 523; United States v. American Ry. Express
Co., 265 U. S. 425, 437-8.
Fourth. It is contended that the effect of the Commission's order is to require the steam railroads to establish
the practice of reciprocal switching with the South Shore,
and to establish rates and charges covering such switching; that power to issue such an order exists only where

MICHIGAN v. WISCONSIN.
Syllabus.

287

the carrier is "engaged in the general business of transporting freight in addition to" its passenger business, as
required by § 418 of Transportation Act, 1920, February
28, 1920, c. 91, §§ 418, 421, 41 Stat. 456, 484, 487-8; and
that the Commission was without jurisdiction to enter
the order because there is not in the record satisfactory
evidence that the South Shore was engaged in the general
transportation of freight. See The Chicago Junction
Case, 264 U. S. 258. Since the decision of this case below,
it has been held by this Court that the Commission has
power to prevent unjust discrimination practiced by an
electric railroad against a steam railroad engaged in interstate commerce, even if the electric line is neither operated
as part of a steam railway system nor engaged in the
general transportation of freight in addition to its passenger and express business. United States v. Village of
Hubbard, 266 U. S. 474. It is insisted, however, that the
limitation contained in S 418 applies, because in this case
it is the electric line which is seeking relief. The contention is groundless. Moreover, the Commission found
that the South Shore is also engaged in the general transportation of freight. Its finding is necessarily conclusive
as the evidence taken before the Commission was not
introduced below. Louisiana & Pine Bluff Ry. Co. v.
United States, 257 U. S. 114.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES took no part in the decision of

this case.
MICHIGAN v. WISCONSIN.
IN

No. 19, Original.

EQUITY.

Argued January 5, 1926.-Decided March 1, 1926.

1. Long acquiescence by one State in the possession of territory,
and in the exercise of sovereignty and dominion over it, by another

