CINCINNATI,

ETC.

103

R. R. v. INDIANAP.,

ETC.

RY.

107

. Statement of the Case.

meantime, and in due time, a petition for certiorari was
filed, which the Court has considered, and does now grant,
and the cause is set for hearing on the summary docket
for the 4th day of October next.

CINCINNATI, INDIANAPOLIS & WESTERN RAILROAD COMPANY v. INDIANAPOLIS UNION
RAILWAY COMPANY, THE CLEVELAND, CINCINNATI, CHICAGO & ST. LOUIS RAILWAY
COMPANY, AND THE PITTSBURGH, CINCINNATI, CHICAGO & ST. LOUIS RAILWAY COMPANY.
APPEALS FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.

Nos. 328, 329. Argued November 25, 1925.-Decided March 1, 1926.
1. Upon an appeal to this Court from a decree of the District Court
dismissing a petition for want of ancillary jurisdiction, the equity
of the petition, antl questions whether it should be denied because
of acquiescence or laches, are not open. P. 115.
2. As ancillary to a decree of railway foreclosure, by which the purchaser of the property was allowed a fixed time in which to elect
not to assume outstanding leases and contracts, and which reserved
for future adjudication all questions not disposed of, and permitted
all parties, including the purchaser, to apply to the court for
further relief at the foot of the decree, tlbe District Court had
jurisdiction, irrespective of citizenship, over a petition of the purchaser seeking to be relieved of agreements made by its predecessors with a terminal company, upon the ground that the purchaser's failure to relieve itself of them by a valid election was
due to a mistake. P. 115.
3. A delay of two years in filing such petition is not a reason for
dismissing it for want of jurisdiction. P. 114.
Reversed.

appeals from decrees of the District
Court dismissing ancillary petitions. See 279 Fed 356.
JURISDICTIONAL

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for Appellant.

270 U. S.

Mr. Murray Seasongood, with whom Messrs. George W.
Wickersham, F. J. Goebel and Lester A. Jaffe were on the
brief, for appellant.
The jurisdiction of this Court is sustained by Hoffman
v. McClelland, 264 U. S. 552; Central Union Trust Co.
v. Anderson County, 268 U. S. 93; Smith v. Apple, 264
U. S. 274.
The District Court had jurisdiction to entertain appellant's petition because it is ancillary to the foreclosure
action. Central Union Trust Co. v. Anderson. County,
supra; Cincinnati,Indianapolis & Western R. R. v. Indianapolis Union Railway Co., 279 Fed. 356; Lang v.
Choctaw, Oklahoma & G. R. R., 160 Fed. 355; see also
Hoffman v. McClelland, 264 U. S. 552; Wabash R. R. v.
Adelbert College, 208 U. S. 38; Julian v. Central Trust
Co., 193 U. S.111; Fulton Nat. Bank v. Hozier, 267 U. S.
276. That a bill to reform or rescind or otherwise grant
equitable relief is arfcillary, see Rosenbaum v. Council
Bluffs Ins. Co., 37 Fed. 724; Bradshaw v. Miners Bank,.
81 Fed. 902. Diversity of citizenship is not necessary in
an ancillary bill. Kripendorf v. Hyde, 110 U. S. 276.
If a petition seeking relief from an electin made by
mistake is ancillary to the suit the decree in which created
the right of election, then, surely, mere delay, explained
or unexplained, does not deprive the petition of its ancillary character. Delay, accompanied by elements of estoppel, may sometimes be a ground for refusing relief on
the merits. It does not, however, oust the jurisdiction
of the court, any more than was the case in Oliver Am.
Trading Co. v. Mexico, 264 U. S. 440, where the trial court
mistakenly thought the immunity of a sovereign State
from suit prevented the court from taking jurisdiction as
a federal court, or than was the case in Smith v. Apple,
264 U. S. 274, where the trial court incorrectly thought
that the federal statute, forbidding enjoining prosecution
of suits in state courts, prevented the federal court, as a
federal court, frhm entertaining jurisdiction.

CINCINNATI,
107

ETC. R.

R. v. INDIANAP., ETC. RY.

109

Argument for Appellees.

Since the decree dismissed the petition on the sole
ground of want of jurisdiction and a sufficient certificate
was filed, the case was properly appealed to this Court.
Soy. Camp Woodmen v. O'Neill, 266 U. S. 292. The allegations of the original petition show there was neither
waiver nor acquiescence, since there was no estoppel or
prejudice suffered by appellees, nor any other feature involved making it inequitable to grant relief. The allegations of the amendment to the petition specifically deny
waiver or acquiescence on the part of appellant and, on
a motion to dismiss, must be taken as true. There was
no "instant duty" on appellant, as a " condition precedent" to obtaining relief, to bring suit immediately after
learning of its legal rights, in May, 1922.
Messrs. Joseph S. Graydon and Joseph J. Daniels, with
whom Mr. Albert Baker was on the brief, for appellees.
There was error in the decree if, and only if, the relief
sought by appellant was not relief from an accepted and
binding contract. That such was the relief sought by
appellant is conclusively demonstrated by an analysis of
the facts in the record. Such contract became in all respects valid and binding on appellant either (a) on December 30, 1915, the day on or before which the purchaser at the foreclosure sale was required by the foreclosure decree to file a written election nct to adopt the
contract, or b) on May 31, 1922, being thirty days after
this Court terminated the prior litigation by refusing
certiorari, or (c) within a reasonable time after May 1,
1922, the day that this Court denied the writ of certiorari
in the prior litigation. For the purposes of the case at
bar, it is immaterial which of these tnree view- is taken
as to the time when such contract became binding on
appellant.
The obligation of the appellant is, under the authorities,
as complete and binding an obligation as any obligation
arising out of a contract executed between two private

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

parties. It has been repeatedly held that a sale or contract made by an order of court creates, when confirmed
by the court, precisely the same situation as is created
by a sale or contract between private persons. Files v.
Brown, 124 Fed. 133; Morrison v. Burnette, 154 Fed. 617;
In re Burr Mfg. & Supply Co., 217 Fed. 16; Earle'v.
McCartncy, 112 Fed. 372; Cropper v. Brown, 76 N. J. Eq.
406; Hayward v. Wemple, 136 N. Y. Supp. 625; Koegel
v. Koegel, 83 N. J. Eq. 179; Pewabic Mining Co. v.
Mason, 145 U. S. 356.
Appellant's petition is simply a suit seeking rescission
of appellant's accepted contract with the Indianapolis
Railway Company. Of such a suit the District Court has
no jurisdiction. Appellant's petition seeks rescission of
an accepted contract, not modification of the District
Court's decree of foreclosure, nor rescission of appellant's
election. The accepted contract which appellant seeks to
rescind has been binding on appellant since December 31,
1915, or at the very latest since May 31, 1922.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE TAFT

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
These are appeals under § 238 of the Judicial Code,
allowed February 18, 1925, in two cases between the same
parties from identical decrees of the District Court for
the Southern District of Ohio. By agreement they are
to be treated in every respect as one. The certificate of
the District Court is that the petition as amended "does
not show the existence of the requisite diversity of citizenship, nor the existence of a Federal question, and that
this Court, not having found the said petition to be
ancillary to any prior suit, but having found the said
petition to be original, did thereupon dismiss the same
upon the sole ground of want of jurisdiction." The question of jurisdiction is whether a petition by the purchasing company at a railway foreclosure sale, in seeking to

CINCINNATI,
107

ETC.

R. R. v. INDIANAP., ETC. RY.

111

Opinion of the Couri.

reform, because of mistake, its contract of purchase in
imposing upon it liability for rentaas under a terminal
facilities contract, is a suit ancillary to the original foreclosure suit so that jurisdiction exists in the Federal
District Court to hear it, without regard to the citizenship
of the necessary parties to the petition.
The two original foreclosure suits were brought, one by
the Equitable Trust Company of New York and Elias J.
Jacoby, as trustees, against the Cincinnati, Indianapolis
& Western Railway Company, and the other by the Central Trust Company of New York and Mason, trustees,
against the same railway company. There was the necessary diversity of citizenship in each case, and the appellant in this present suit, the Cincinnati, Indianapolis &
Western Railroad Company, is a newly organized company, the assignee of the purchaser at the foreclosure
sales of the whole railroad property covered by all the
mortgages foreclosed. It became a party to each cause
as such assignee, as permitted in the decree of foreclosure
in each case, and it will be hereafter called the purchasing
company.
The Indiana, Decatur & Western Railway Company
owned the part of the railway from Indianapolis to
Springfield, Illinois. The Cincinnati, Hamilton & Indianapolis Railroad Company owned the part from Indianapolis to the East. In 1902 they were merged into a
corporation called the Cincinnati, Indianapolis & Western
Railway Company, which gave a first refunding mortgage
upon the two properties. It was expected that the bonds
secured by this mortgage would be used in refunding two
underlying mortgages on the eastern part, and a single
underlying mortgage on the western part. The refunding was not completed and the two foreclosure suits,
already referred to, were filed at the same time in the
same court, so that by an identical decree in each case
the purchaser was enabled to acquire title to the con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

solidated railway free from the liens of the four mortgages. The decree of foreclosure in each case contained
a provision giving the purchaser under the foreclosure
sale, and his successors or assigns, the right for a period
of thirty days after the delivery of the master's deed, to
elect "whether or not to assume or adopt any lease or
contract made by the defendant consolidated company,
or its predecessors in title, and such purchaser, his successors or assigns, shall be held not to have adopted or
assumed any such lease or contract in respect of which
he or they shall have filed a written election not to assume or adopt the same with the Clerk of this Court
within the said period of thirty days."
Within the thirty days, the purchasing company filed
in the two foreclosure cases what it called an election
"not to assume or adopt the contract dated September
20, 1883, and the amendment of August 20, 1906, under
which the tracks of the Union Railway Company are
occupied in Indianapolis, in so far as such rights are conferred by the signature of the Indianapolis, Decatur &
Springfield Railway Company to said contract. This
assignee hereby expressly accepts such contract as made
with the Cincinnati, Hamilton & Indianapolis Railroad
Company, and desires to accept the benefits of the contract with said company, and the right to occupy the
tracks of the Union Railway Company and the Indianapolis Belt Railway Company therein conferred."
The Indianapolis Union Railway Company is a company engaged in operating a union railway depot and
union railway tracks for the use of several railroads entering that city, its properties having been owned by five
so-called proprietary companies and conveyed by them to
it. It had acquired a perpetual lease of a belt line. Septembei 20, 1883, an agreement was made between the
Union Railway Company and five proprietary companies,
by which each of the companies in the use of the terminals

CINCINNATI,

ETC.

107

R. R. v. INDIANAP., ETC. RY.

113

Opinion of the Court.

became liable for a fixed rental which was to be paid by
each company, whether the terminal was used or not.
Then there were admitted seven non-proprietary companies to the joint use of the Belt Railway and Union
Railway Company property under the same agreement as
to a fixed rental, in addition to which there was to be a
payment in proportion to the use on the basis of wheelage.
At this time the Indianapolis, Decatur & Springfield Railway Company owned the part of the railroad here in question west of Indianapolis, and it bound itself for onethirteenth of the rental, and the Cincinnati, Hamilton &
Indianapolis Railroad Company owning the other part of
the railroad here in question east of Indianapolis became
bound for another one-thirteenth of the rental. In 1902,
the two companies were united under the name of the
Cincinnati, Indianapolis & Western Railway Company,
and, from that time until the foreclosure in 1915, the
united company paid two-thirteenths of the rentals.
When, however, the decrees were made in the foreclosure
of the two parts of the railway, the purchasing company,
the appellant here, sought to reduce its rental from twothirteenths to one-thirteenth by electing to take the contract for rental of its predecessor in title of the eastern
part of the united railway, and to refuse to elect to take
the contract of rental of its predecessor in title for the
western part of the railway, and, having filed such an
election, it declined to pay more than one-thirteenth of
the rental.
There then intervened in the original foreclosure suits
the Indianapolis Union Railway Company and the then
proprietary parties to the terminal agreement, by petitions asking that the purchasing company show cause
why it should not be ordered to make payment to the
Indianapolis Union Company of the full amount that
would have been payable to that company by the (incin100569°-26----8

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court

270 U. S.

nati, Indianapolis & Western Railway Company, the defendant in the foreclosure in both suits. Jurisdiction was
taken of this petition, and the District Court held that
the so-called election was unauthorized and improper, and
that the purchasing company, for failure to elect to reject
the contracts entirely, was responsible for two-thirteenths
of the total rentals. This controversy was carried to the
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit, which affirmed the District Court. Cincinnati,I. & W. R. Co. v.
Indianapolis Union Railroad Company, 279 Fed. 356.
The order of the Circuit Court of Appeals was made in
1922. In 1924, the present intervening petition was filed
by appellant as purchaser against the Indianapolis Union
Railway Company and the proprietary companies, which
had been parties to the preceding controversy. In this,
the petitioner, the present appellant, sought to have the
court relieve it from the effect of its so-called ineffective
election by wlich it made itself responsible, according to
the decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals, for two-thirteenths, on the ground of its mistake in not electing to
reject the whole contract for use of the terminals. On
the hearing of the petition, to which the Indianapolis
Union Railway Company and the other defendants filed
answers, the District Court held that the delay of two
years between the coming down of the decree from the
Circuit Court of Appeals, in 1922, until 1924, when the
petition was filed, was a delay constituting acquiescence
which would prevent the consideration of the petition.
The petitioner then filed an amendment to its petition,
in which it set out reasons thought by it to justify the
delay, including a statement that attempts had been made
to secure relief by a personal negotiation with the interested parties, to whom it had indicated from the first
that it did not intend to acquiesce in an obligation to pay
the rentals. The District Court, conceiving that by reason of the delay of two years such relief as the petitioners

CINCINNATI,
107

ETC.

R. R. v. INDIANAP.,

ETC.

RY.

115

Opinion of the Court.

sought must be obtained by an independent suit, and not
by an ancillary proceeding, held that, there being no diversity of citizenship or federal question to justify jurisdiction, the petition must be dismissed.
The sufficiency of the petition in equity is not for us
to consider. We have here only the question of jurisdiction. On that issue, we think the District Court was in
error. The present proceeding deals with the effect of the
decree upon which the petitioner became the owner of
the property. The previous litigation between the parties
to this petition as to the effect of the attempted election
in which the petitioner was defeated involved a construction of the decree of sale and the purchaser's action under
it in the foreclosure proceedings. That decree provided
that "all questions not hereby disposed of are reserved for
future adjudication. Any party to this cause may at any
time apply to this Court for further relief at the foot of
this decree" It also provided "that the purchaser shall
have the right to enter his appearance in this Court and
to become a party to this cause," and it made itself a
party under that order. The Circuit Court of Appeals
in its opinion in the case already cited said:
"Notwithstanding the property had passed from the
possession of the court, appellant, [that is, petitioner], as
the purchaser, would have an undoubted right to apply to
the court for relief respecting the controversy over its
right of election under the sale."
At the instance of the defendants here, the purchaser
was held by its so-called election to be bound to the two
contracts, and, having been thus defeated, it seeks the
equitable intervention of the court, on the ground of mistake, to secure relief from this adjudicated effect of its
unsuccessful attempt at election. Assuming that it has
a right to seek such a remedy, (and we must do so in this
hearing), we do not see why it may not obtain that relief
in the same forum by ancillary proceeding in the original
suit in foreclosure in which it was held to have bound

116

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

itself by its purchase and ineffective election. It may be
that equity will not give it relief from mistake under the
circumstances. It may be that it has acquiesced and may
be denied relief on that account. It may be that it has
been guilty of laches. But these are questions on the
meriis. We can not see that they affect the jurisdiction
of the court to consider the issue thus raised.
The present proceeding is only another phase of the
same litigation, carried on as ancillary to the foreclosure
suit, in which the purchasing company was found to be
bound by its purchase to pay two-thirteenths of the rentals to the Indianapolis Union Railway. The purchaser
seeks to recur to the circumstances under which it attempted to accept liability to pay one-thirteenth of the
rental and to reject the other one-thirteenth. It says
that, as the Circuit Court of Appeals has held that its
attempted election was invalid and ineffective for the
purpose, it should have equitable relief from the oppressive obligation to pay two-thirteenths on the ground of
its mistake and be permitted to make an election which
will relieve it from the contract to pay any rental at all,
as it might have done when it became the purchaser.
Such a proceeding is certainly ancillary to the enforcement of the decree of sale and the contract of purchase.
Rosenbaum v. Council Bluffs Insurance Company, 37 Fed.
724; Bradshaw v. Miners' Bank of Joplin, 81 Fed. 902.
Clearly it is a natural and closely proximate sequence of
the sale by the court and requires the interpretation of its
decree and the attempted election of the purchaser under
it and the consideration of its effort to correct the alleged
inequitable result. "A purchaser or bidder at a master's
sale in chancery subjects himself quoad hoc to the jurisdiction of the court and can be compelled to perform his
agreement specifically. It would seem that he must acquire a corresponding right to appear and claim, at the
hands of the court, such relief as the rules of equity proceedings entitle him to." Blossom v. Railroad Company,

GOLDSMITH v. BD. OF TAX APPEALS.
107

117

Statement of the Case.

1 Wall. 655, 656. It is well settled that where a bill in
equity is necessary to have a construction of an order or
decree of a federal court, or to explain, enforce or correct
it, a bill of this kind may be entertained by the court
entering the decree, even though the parties interested
for want of diverse citizenship could not be entitled by
original bill in the federal court to have the matter there
litigated. Julian v. Central Trust Company, 193 U. S.
93, 113; Minnesota Company v. *St. Paul Company, 2
Wall. 609, 633; Wabash Railroad v. ±d"lbert College, 208
U. S. 38, 54; Hoffman v. McClelland, 264 U. S. 552, 558.
The District Court had jurisdiction, and the decree dismissing the petitin should be
Reversed.
H. ELY GOLDSMITH, CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANT, v. UNITED STATES BOARD OF TAX
APPEALS.
ERROR TO THE CC TTRT OF APPEALS

OF THE DISTRICT OF

COLUMBIA.

No. 320. Argued November 30, 1925.--Decided March 1, 1926.
1. Power of the United States Board of Tax Appeals to prescribe
rules for admission of attorneys and certified public acco,'ntants
to practice before it under the Revenue Act of 1924, § jOO, 42
Stat. 253, is implied in the other powers conferred by the. Act
P. 120.
2. Where the application of a certified public accountant for ad
mission to practice before the Board of Tax Appeals was denied
after an ex parte investigation, held that he was entitled to notice
and a hearing before the Board upon the charges on which the
denial was based. P. 123.
3. Mandamus will not lie summarily to compel the Board to enroli
an applicant who has not applied to the Board for a hearing on
the charges which caused its denial of his application. P. 123.
55 App. D. C. 229, 4 Fed. (2d) 422, affirmed.
ERROR to a judgment of the Court of Appeals of the
District of Columbia refusing a mandamus to compel the

