OCTOBER TERM, 19.25.
Syllabus.

270 U. S.

date. If it was invalid, appellant, as already pointed
out, has laid no foundation for any offset to the amount
due on the note.
Judgment affirmed.

RISTY

ET AL.,

COUNTY COMMISSIONERS,

ET AL. V.

CHICAGO, ROCK ISLAND & PACIFIC RAILWAY
COMPANY.
THE SAME v. CHICAGO, MILWAUKEE & ST. PAUL
RAILWAY COMPANY.
THE SAME v. CHICAGO, ST. PAUL, MINNEAPOLIS
& OMAHA RAILWAY COMPANY.
THE SAME v. NORTHERN STATES POWER
COMPANY.
THE SAME v. CITY OF SIOUX FALLS.
THE SAME v. GREAT NORTHERN RAILWAY
COMPANY.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

'Nos. 95-100.

Argued January 7, 8, 1926.-Decided March 1, 1926.

1.When the District Court and Circuit Court of Appeals agree upon
all material facts, this Court will consider them only so far as
needful to pass on questions of law. P. 381.
2. The statutes of South Dakota (Rev. Code 1919, §§ 8458 et seq.,
§§ 8467, 8470,) contain no provision by which the cost of reconstructing or maintaining existing drainage works may be assessed
on lands which were not embraced within or assessed in connection
with the project as originally established. P. 383.
3. It is the duty of the federal courts, in suits brought in or removed
to the District Courts, to decide for themselves all relevant questions of state law, including the meaning of the state statutes where
they have not been clearly and decisively passed upon by the state
court. P. 387.

RISTY v. CHICAGO, R. I. & PAC. RY. CO.
378

379

Syllabus.

4. Questions involving the Federal Constitution, giving the federal
court jurisdiction, need not be passed upon when the case is
decided by applying the state law. P. 387.
5. Suits in the federal court to enjoin state officials from equalizing
benefits of drainage work and making assessments of the cost, held
not premature, but within equitable jurisdiction, where the ground
of the suits was the invalidity of the whole proceedings, and not
merely inequality in apportionment of benefits, and where the
effects of the proceedings would be to establish liens on plaintiffs'
lands, clouding the titles, and subject them to liability for future
assessments. P. 387.
6. The remedy, in such cases, afforded by § 8465 of So. Dak. Code,
1919, does not appear to be coextensive with the relief afforded by
equity. Id.
7. The test of equity jurisdiction in a federal court is the inadequacy
of the remedy on the law side of that court, and not the inadequacy
of the remedies afforded by the state courts. P. 388.
8. It does not appear that the law of South Dakota affords a remedy,
in cases like the present, by payment of the assessment and suit
to recover it back, which could be availed of in the federal court,
or that such remedy, if available, would not entail a multiplicity
of suits. P. 388.
9. Where the legal remedy under the state law is uncertain, the
federal court, (having jurisdiction as such of the case,) has jurisdiction in equity to enjoin illegal assessments. P. 389.
10. Jurisdictional amount held involved in suits against a board to
enjoin illegal apportionments and assessments of cost of drainage
work, where the board had made tentative assessments against
plaintiffs in excess of that amount, and the basis of the suits was
want of jurisdiction to make such apportionments and assessments. P. 389.
11. Plaintiffs held not estopped to question the legality of proceedings to extend drainage assessments to their land outside the
drainage area, because of their relation to the proceeding or to
the construction before they had knowledge of the purpose so to
extend the assessments. P. 389.
12. A bill by a city to restrain the laying of drainage assessments
under a law of its own State, as violative of the Fourteenth
Amendment, is too unsubstantial to confer jurisdiction on a federal court, since the Amendment does not restrain the power of
the State and its agencies over its municipal corporations. P. 389.
297 Fed. 710, affirmed in part; reversed in part.

380

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

APPEALS from decrees of the Circuit Court of Appeals,
which affirmed decrees of the District Court (282 Fed.
364,) in favor of four railroad companies, a power company, and a city, in six suits brought by them to enjoin
a board of county commissioners and certain state officers,
of South Dakota, from extending apportionment of benefits and assessments of costs, of a drainage project, to
outside lands.
Messrs. Benjamin I. Salinger, N. B. Bartlett, and E.
0. Jones, for appellants.
Mr. Edward S. Stringer, for appellee in No. 95, submitted. Messrs. M. L. Bell, W. F. Dickinson, Thomas
D. O'Brien, and Alexander E. Horn were also on the brief.
Mr. E. L. Grantham, for appellee in No. 96, submitted.
Messrs. C. 0. Bailey, J. H. Voorhees, T. M. Bailey, H. H.
Field, and 0. W. Dynes, were also on the brief.
Mr. C. 0. Bailey, with whom Messrs. J. H. Voorhees,
T. M. Bailey, Roy D. Burns, and R. L. Kennedy were on
the brief, for appellees in Nos. 97 and 99.
Mr. R. M. Campbell, for appellee in No. 98, submitted.
Messrs. Harold E. Judge and John H. Roemer were also
on the brief.
Mr. HaroldE. Judge, for appellee in No. 100, submitted.
Mr. F. G. Dorety was also on the brief.
MR.

JUSTICE

STONE

delivered the opinion of the Court.

Separate suits were brought by the several appellees, in
the United States District Court for South Dakota, to
enjoin the County Commissioners, the Auditor and the
Treasurer of Minnehaha County, South Dakota, from
making any apportionment of benefits or assessments of
costs affecting the property of the several appellees, for

RISTY v. CHICAGO, R. I. & PAC. RY. CO.
378

381

Opinion of the Court.

the construction or repair of a drainage system in the area
within the county embraced in a project known as
"Drainage Ditch No. 1 and 2."
In all of the suits, except No. 99, there was diversity of
citizenship. In each it was alleged that an amount in
excess of the jurisdictional requirement was in controversy, and in each it was alleged that proceedings purporting to be had under the South Dakota drainage statutes,
with respect to the lands of the appellees, were unauthorized and void, and that those statutes and proceedings
denied to appellees due process of law and the equal protection of the laws, in contravention of the Constitution
of the United States. The suits were tried together and
decrees were given for the plaintiffs by the District Court.
282 Fed. 364. The Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Eighth Circuit, on appeal affirmed the decrees, 297 Fed.
710, and the cases are brought here on appeal. Jud. Code,
§§ 128, 241, before Act of February 13, 1925. Greene v.
Louisville & Interurban R. R. Co., 244 U. S. 499, 508.
Petition for certiorari was denied, 266 U. S. 622.
The two courts below agree as to all material facts.
We accordingly consider them here only so far as is needful to pass on questions of law. United States v. State
Investment Co., 264 U.S. 206, 211.
In 1907 the Board of County Commissioners of Minnehaha County, acting under the constitution and laws of
the State, established "Drainage Ditch No. 1," extending
from a point north of the city of Sioux Falls, thence south,
and then to the east of Sioux Falls, three miles in all, to
the Big Sioux River, into which it emptied. From the
main ditch, a spur ditch was extended northwest to a point
near the Big Sioux River, which from that point passes
to the southwest and thence flows east, forming a loop
about the principal part of the city of Sioux Falls, and
finally flows through the city on its easterly side in a
northeasterly direction.

382

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
270 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

In 1910 the Board of County Commissioners established
drainage ditch No. 2, extending northerly from the north
terminus of ditch No. 1 for a distance of twelve miles.
The two ditches thus formed one continuous ditch, draining agricultural lands lying to the north of the city. Both
ditches, and the assessment districts in connection with
them, are conceded to have been lawfully established.
In 1916 the river broke through its banks into the area
drained by the spur ditch, and, uniting with the flood
water flowing from the river through ditch No. 2, flooded
the main ditch, No. 1, washed out and destroyed a spillway on ditch No. 1, "and, in its uncontrolled flow caused
extensive damage. There was danger that the river by
its flow' through the ditch would be diverted from its
natural course, cutting off the city's water supply and
causing other damage to the city and to individuals.
In August, 1916, a proceeding was instituted by petition
to the Board of County Commissioners, purporting to be
pursuant to statute, "to reconstruct and improve drainage ditches numbers one and two

.

.

.

and to pay

therefor by an assessment upon the property, persons
and corporations benefited." This proceeding resulted in
resolutions of the Commissioners purporting to establish
"Drainage District No. 1 and 2" and providing for the
construction of the proposed ditch. The location fixed
for it, however, was identical with that of the old ditches
No. 1 and No. 2. The County Commissioners then caused
the previously established ditch No. 1 and ditch No. 2
to be diked, cleaned out, and widened and deepened at
certain points; the river to be straightened, and the spillway to be reconstructed so as to continue and safeguard
the flow of water through ditch No. 1 and ditch No. 2.
The cost was approximately $255,000.
Proceedings were then had by the County Commissioners for the assessment of benefits to defray the expenses
thus incurred. The assessments of benefits were extended

RISTY v. CHICAGO, R. I. & PAC. RY. CO.
378

383

Opinion of the Court.

to areas not embraced in the assessment districts of ditch
No. 1 and ditch No. 2, as previously established, and resulted in the assessment of benefits now complained of,
made against all the appellees, some of whom did and
some of whom did not own land within the area originally
assessed for the establishment of ditch No. 1 and ditch
No. 2. When the present suits were commenced, notice
had been given to the appellees of a tentative assessment
of benefits to their land, and of a proceeding to be had to
equalize benefits before final assessments for the cost of
construction.
Both courts below found that the drainage ditch No.
1 and 2 was not a new project, but was in fact identical
with the previously established ditches No. 1 and No. 2;
that no new or additional drainage was established, and
that the only purpose of the proceedings was to provide
for the maintenance and repair of the previously established ditches by assessing the cost on tracts -not included
within the area originally assessed for their construction.
For these reasons, among others, both courts held that
the proceedings had by the Board of County Commissioners to apportion and assess benefits on land outside
the original drainage districts were unauthorized and void
under the statutes of South Dakota. In this we think
they were right.
Section 8458 of the South Dakota Revised Code of 1919
provides that the Board of County Commissioners "may
establish and cause to be constructed any ditch or drain;
may provide for the straightening or enlargement of any
water course or drain previously constructed, and may
provide for the maintenance of such ditch, drain or watercourse .
Section 8476 provides that the powers conferred for
establishing and constructing drains "shall also extend to
and include the deepening and widening of any drains

384

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

which have heretofore been or may hereafter be constructed," and that no proceedings shall be had under
this section "except upon notice and the other procedure
prescribed herein for the construction of drains."
The procedure prescribed by the South Dakota statutes
embraces two distinct schemes or methods for carrying
into effect the authority of the Board of County Commissioners. The one relates exclusively to the establishment and construction of proposed drainage; the other to
assessments for further costs and maintenance of drainage already established. With reference to the establishment of proposed drainage, it is provided that the Board
shall act only on petition of a landowner affected by the
"proposed drainage" (§ 8459), and upon the filing of the
petition the Board shall cause the "proposed route"
of the drainage to be inspected and, if necessary, surveyed.
(§ 8460.) It is required to hold a hearing on notice describing the proposed drainage (§ 8461), and after hearing
the drainage "may be established" in accordance with the
petition or the findings of the Board (§ 8462). After the
establishment of the drainage, the Board is required to
determine "the proportion of benefits of the proposed
drainage," and to fix a time and place for equalization
of benefits, on notice describing the land affected by the
"proposed drainage "; and to state the proportion of
benefits fixed for each tract, benefits being considered
"such as accrue directly by the construction of such drainage or indirectly by virtue of such drainage being an
outlet for connection drains which may be subsequently
constructed." (§ 8463.) Following equalization of benefits as prescribed, the Board is authorized to make an
assessment against each tract, "in proportion to benefits
as equalized," for the purpose of paying damages and the
cost of establishment, which are stated to include all the
expenses " incurred or to be incurred that in any way
contributed or will contribute to the establishment or con-

RISTY v. CHICAGO, R. I. & PAC. RY. CO.
378

385

Opinion of the Court.

struction of the drainage." All assessments are made perpetual liens upon the tracts assessed. (§ 8464.)
The only provisions contained in the statutes for equalization of benefits are those found in the sections referred
to, which have to do with the establishment of proposed
drainage. By § 8477 all drains, when constructed, are in
charge of the Board of County Commissioners, who are
made responsible for keeping them open and in repair.
The statutory pr6visions which deal with assessments for
further costs of construction and for maintenance are
found in § § 8467 and 8470, the material portions of which
are printed in the margin.* It will be observed that there
is no provision for the assessment or equalization of benefits in connection with the procedure provided in those
sections for assessing for further costs of construction and
maintenance. No such provision is required; for by the
*§ 8467. Assessments for Further Costs. At any time after the
damages arising from the establishment and construction of such
drainage are paid and the lands for such drainage are taken, assessments may be made for further costs and expenses of construction.
If the contractors are required and agree to take assessment certificates or warrants for their services, assessments need not be made
until the completion of the work when an assessment shall be made
for the entire balance of cost of construction . . . and notice of
such assessment shall be given by the board of county commissioners
in all respects as provided for the first assessment. And such assessment and the certificates issued thereon shall be in like manner
perpetual liens upon the tracts assessed, interest-bearing and enforcible as such first assessment and certificates. . . . In any
case, in the discretion of the board, several assessments may be
made as the work progresses.
§ 8470. For the cleaning and maintenance of any drainage established under the provisions of this article, assessments may be made
upon the landowners affected in the proportions determined for
such drainage at any time upon the petition of any person setting
forth the necessity thereof. . . . Such assessments shall be made
as other assessments for the construction of drainage, certificates may
be issued thereon and such assessments and certificates shall be liens
in all respects as original assessments .
100569*°-26---25.

386

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

express terms of § 8467 the procedure for making assessments for the additional cost of construction is like that
provided for the first assessment for construction (§ 8464)
after the equalization of benefits has been had under
§ 8463; and by § 8470 assessments for maintenance are to
be made "upon the land owners affected in the proportions determined for such drainage." Both sections clearly
contemplate that assessments for additional construction
and for maintenance are to be made upon those lands
which are already embraced within the drainage project,
and on which the proportion of benefits has been determined by equalization proceedings had after the establishment of the original project.
The statutes of South Dakota contain no provision for
assessing the cost of reconstruction or maintenance of an
existing drainage project except in the two sections last
referred to, and they make no provision for assessing such
costs upon lands not embraced within or assessed in connection with the drainage as originally established.
Whether the cost of construction work actually done on
ditch No. 1 and ditch No. 2 and involved in this litigation be regarded as additional costs of construction or as
cost of maintenance, or partly one and partly the other,
there is no statutory authority for assessing that cost on
lands not included in the original drainage district.
By § 8489 it -is provided that "If any proceeding for
the location, establishment or construction of any drain
.
has been .
.
voluntarily abandoned . .
for any cause, the board of county commissioners may
nevertheless . ..
locate a drain . . . under the
same or different names and in the same or different locations from those described in the . . . abandoned
proceeding under the provisions of this article." But the
original proceedings for the establishment and construction of ditch No. 1 and ditch No. 2 were' not abandoned,
and the proceedings had for levying the assessments now

RISTY v. CHICAGO, R. I. & PAC. RY. CO.
378

387

Opinion of the Court.

in question were not framed or conducted on that theory.
They were consequently without authority in law and
could not affect the rights of appellees.
While there are expressions in the opinion in Gilseth
v.
Risty, 46 S. D. 374, decided after thdse suits were begun,
which, standing by themselves, might be regarded as supporting the view that the proceedings now in question
were authorized by the statutes of South Dakota, the
court clearly rested its decision upon other grounds. It is
the duty of the federal courts, in suits brought in or removed to the districts courts, to decide for themselves all
relevant questions of state law, and while they will follow
the decisions of state courts as to the interpretation of a
state statute, we do not think that the case of Gilseth v.
Risty, supra, so clearly or decisively passed upon the
question here involved as to control our decision. Kuhn v.
Fairmount Coal Co., 215 U. S. 349; Barber v. Pittsburgh,
&c. Railway, 166 U. S. 83, 99; and see Edward Hines Yellow Pine Trustees v. Martin, 268 U. S. 458.
As our decision in these cases turns on the construction
and application of the state law, we do not pass upon the
constitutional questions raised. See Bohler v. Calloway,
267 U. S. 479, 489; Chicago, G. W. Ry. v. Kendall, 266
U. S. 94, 97-98. They are, however, questions of substance and sufficient to give the court jurisdiction to pass
on the whole case. Greene v. Louisville & Interurban
R. R. Co., supra; Chicago, G. W. Ry. v. Kendall, supra;
Bohler v. Calloway, supra.
The objections to the exercise of equity jurisdiction in
these cases require no extended comment. When the
appellees filed their bills, the drainage project had been
completed and construction warrants had been issued for
the work done;. benefits apportioned to the lands of the
appellee had been tentatively fixed and notice of a hearing
for the 'equalization of benefits had been given. The
steps next in order after the hearing would have been the

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U.S.

assessment of costs of construction and the filing of copies
of the assessment with the County Treasurer, which
would have established a, lien on the property assessed.
(§ 8464.) As the principal ground for appellees' suits was
the invalidity of the whole proceeding and not merely
inequality in apportionment of benefits, and as the effect
of the proposed equalization would have been to bring
the lands of appellees into the newly established drainage
district and subject them to future assessments for construction costs and for maintenance, the threatened injury was imminent and the suits were not premature.
The assessment, if made, would have established a lien
on the appellees' property which would be a cloud on
title-to say nothing of the fact that the effect of the
pending proceeding would have been to subject their
property to future assessments; hence the case was one
for equitable relief unless there was a plain and adequate
remedy at law. Ohio Tax Cases, 232 U. S. 576; Shaffer
v. Carter, 252 U. S. 37, 46; Chicago, B. & Q. R. R. v.
Osborne, 265 U. S. 14. The remedy by appeal to the state
court under § 8469 does not appear to be coextensive with
the relief which equity may give In any event, it is not
one which may be availed of at law in the federal courts,
and the test of equity jurisdiction in a federal court is
the inadequacy of the remedy on the law side of that
court and not the inadequacy of the remedies afforded
by the state courts. Smyth v. Ames, 169 U. S. 466; Chicago, B. & Q. R. R. Co. v. Osborne, supra.
It does not appear that the state law affords a remedy
by payment of the assessment and suit to recover it back,
which, if it exists, can be availed of in the federal courts,
Singer Sewing Machine Co. v. Benedict, 229 U. S. 481,
486, or that such remedy, if available, would not entail a
multiplicity of suits. It is not suggested that § 6826 of
the state code, which permits suits to recover taxes and
forbids injunctions to restrain their collection, has any

RISTY v. CHICAGO, R. I. & PAC. RY. CO.
378

389

Opinion of the Court.

application to assessments for drainage. In Gilseth v.
Risty, supra, the Supreme Court of the State evidently
did not deem that section applicable, as it did not rely
upon it in denying relief. The legal remedy under the
state law being uncertain, the federal court has jurisdiction in equity to enjoin the assessment. Dawson v. Kentucky Distilleries Co., 255 U. S. 288.
The objection that it was not shown that these cases
involve the jurisdictional amount is unsubstantial. The
court below found that the amount due on outstanding
construction warrants was approximately $300,000 and
that the tentative apportionment of benefits, if undisturbed, would result in assessments for amounts ranging
from $6,000 to $50,000 against the lands of the appellees.
As the substantial basis of the suits was want of jurisdiction in the Board of County Commissioners to make the
apportionment and assessment, we think the jurisdictional amount was necessarily involved.
Appellees are not estopped to seek the relief which was
granted because of any relations which they may have
had to the proceedings or to the construction work which
had been carried on before notice of the tentative apportionment of benefits. The decrees of the District Court,
which remain undisturbed, enjoin the assessments and
further proceedings only so far as they affect lands lying
outside of the original assessment areas of ditch No. 1
and ditch No. 2. As none of the appellees could have
had any notice of the proposal to assess lands lying outside of these areas, until the published notice of the apportionment of benefits, their previous conduct cannot
estop them from seeking the relief granted. Other objections were made to the decrees below, but they are not
of sufficient gravity to require notice here.
There is no diversity of citizenship in No. 99, the appellee in that case being the city of Sioux Falls, a South
Dakota municipal corporation. Nor was any substantial

390

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for Petitioner.

270 U. S.

federal question raised by the bill of complaint in that
suit. The power of the State and its agencies over municipal corporations within its territory is not restrained
by the provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment. Trenton
v. New Jersey, 262 U. S. 182; and see Pawhuska v. Pawhuska Oil Co., 250 U. S. 394. The decree in that case
must therefore be reversed, and the cause remanded with
directions to dismiss the plaintiff's bh.
No. 99 reversed and remanded.
Nos. 95, 96, 97, 98 and 100 affirmed.
ALEXANDER MILBURN COMPANY v. DAVISBOURNONVILLE COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 107.

Argued January 11, 12, 1926.-Decided March 8, 1926.

1. Where a patent application fully and adequately disclosed, but
did not claim, the thing patented to a later applicant alleging a later
date of invention, the later applicant was not the "first inventor"
within Rev. Stats. § 4920. P. 399.
2. As regards " reduction to practice," a description that would bar
a patent if printed in a periodical or in an issued patent is equally
effective in an application. P. 401.
1 Fed. (2d) 227, reversed.
CERTIORARI to a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
which affirmed a decree of the District Court (297 Fed.
846) enjoining an alleged infringement of plaintiff's
patent.

Mr. James A. Watson, for petitioner.
The court below erred in assuming that under the
defense of R. S. 4920 it was necessary to show that Clifford was the "first inventor," whereas the statute simply
requires proof that Whitford "was not the original and

