MINNESOTA IRON COMPANY v. KLINE.
199

U.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

S.

MINNESOTA IRON COMPANY v. KLINE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MINNESOTA.
No. 96.

Argued December 5, 1905.-Decided December 18, 1905.

If a state statute as interpreted by the highest court of the State is not
violative of the Federal Constitution this court will accept the construction of the state court.
The statute of Minnesota, G. S., 1894, ยง 2701, providing that the liability
of railroad companies for damages to employ6s shall not be diminished
by reason of the accident occurring through the negligence of fellow
servants, and excepting from its provisions damages sustained by employ~s engaged in construction of new and unopened railroads, does not,
as interpreted by the highest court of that State, discriminate against
any class of railroads or deny to such class the equal protection of the
laws; the exception merely marks the time when the statute takes effect.
There is no objection under the Fourteenth Amendment to legislation
confined to a peculiar and well-defined class of perils, and it is not necessary that they are shared by the public if they concern the body of
citizens engaged in a particular work.
Freedom of contract may be limited by a state statute where there are
visible reasons of public policy for the limitation.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Frank B. Kellogg, with whom Mr, W. W. Billson and
Mr. Joseph B. Cotton were on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
The statute as construed by the Supreme Court of the State,
denies to plaintiff in error the equal protection of the laws.
The sole circumstance relied upon to bring the defendant, a
private mining company, under the operation of the statute, is
that it used steam power trains in moving earth from cut to fill.
As construed by the statc court, the function of the proviso
in the statute is to exempt certain railroad employers from the
operation of the act, on the ground of the newness of their
roads.
As to the irrationality of the distinction between new and old
VOL. cxcix-38

594

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

199 U7. S.

roads see Schneider v. Chicago, Burlington & Northern Ry. Co.,
42 Minnesota, 68, 72.
An invidious distinction in favor,of a single class, is as obnoxious to the equality clause as a similar discrimination againsta
particular class. Connolly v. Union Sewer Pipe Co., 184 U. S.
540, 554.
Nor is it necessary that the character of the discrimination
or the attendant circumstances should justify an inference of
malice, ill-will or corrupt favoritism on the part of the legislature. It is enough that no rational basis for the discrimination
can be discerned. Smyth v. Ames, 169 U. S. 466; Cotting v.
Kansas City Stock Yards, 183 U. S. 79, 112; Gull, Colorado &c.
Co. v. Ellis, 165 U. S.150, 165.
Cases sustaining the right to subject certain distinct classes
to special legislative restrictions, where the law operates uniformly on all parties brought under its influence, do not detract
from the elementary rule that legal discriminations cannot be
based upon diversities of conditions not logically and reasonably related to them. Cases supra and Magoun v. Ill. Trust
Co., 170 U. S.283; A., T. & S. F. Ry. Co. v. Matthews, 174 U. S.
96; L. S. & Mich. South. Ry. Co. v. Smith, 173 U. S.684; Barbier v. Connolly, 113 U. S.27, 31.
For decisions of the Supreme Court of the State of Minnesota,
upon this and other fellow servant statutes, see Herrick v. M. &
St. Louis R. Co., 31 Minnesota, 12; S.C. 127 U. S.211, involving
the construction of a statute of Iowa. Mo. Pac.Ry. v. Mackey,
127 U. S.206; Lavellee v. St. P. M. & M. Ry. Co., 40 Minnesota, '250; Johnson v. St. P. & Duluth Ry. Co., 43 Minnesota,
222; Pearson v. Chicago, M. & St. P. R.R. Co., 47 Minnesota, 9;
Holtz v. Great Northern R. Co., 69 Minnesota, 524; Funk v.
St. Paul City Ry. Co., 61 Minnesota, 435; Schus v. PowersSimpson Co., 85 Minnesota, 448, can be distinguished from this
case.
In no case in this court has such a classification as this been
sustained, and, if the legislature may make this classification,
there is no limit to its power. It may make a railroad liable

MINNESOTA IRON COMPANY v. KLINE.
199 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

for the negligence of its employds in grading the railroad, and
at the same time may exempt a contractor in grading a street.
This statute cannot, therefore, be brought within any of the rules
laid down by this court. Tullis v. Lake Erie & Western R. Co.,
175 U. S. 348; Chicago, Kansas & W. R. Co. v. Pontius, 157
U. S. 209.
In cases brought here from a state court, the construction
placed by the state court upon the laws of the State, whether
common or statutory, are reviewable here so far as necessary
to determine whether the party bringing up the case has been
denied by the state court any right or immunity secured to him
by the Constitution of the United States. Gibson v. Mississippi, 162 U. S. 565, 591; Atch., Top. & S. F. Ry. v. Mathews,
174 U. S. 100; Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356, 366; Chicago
&c. Ry. Co. v. Chicago, 166 U. S. 226; Scott v. McNeal, 154 U. S.
34, 44.
Mr. Samuel A. Anderson and Mr. George M. Nelson for defendant in error:
Chapter 13, General Laws Minnesota, 1887, construed as applicable to plaintiff in error, is constitutional and not repugnant
to the Fourteenth Amendment denying to the plaintiff in error
the equal protection of the laws.
"The national courts uniformly follow the construction of the
constitution and statutes of a State given by its highest judicial
tribunal in all cases which involve no question of general or
commercial law, and no question of right under the Constitution and laws of the Nation." Kibbe v. Iron Mining Co., 136
Fed. Rep. 147; Bolles v. Brimfield, 120 U. S. 759, 763; Detroit
v. Osborne, 135 U. S. 492, 499; Gut v. The State, 9 Wall. 35, 37;
Fairfieldv. Gallatin County, 100 U. S. 47; Bank of Hamilton v.
Dudley's Lessee, 2 Pet. 492; Union National Bank v. Kansas
City, 136 U. S. 223, 235.
The Supreme Court of Minnesota having so construed this
statute as to make it applicable to the plaintiff in error, and
having held it to be constitutional under the state constitution,

.OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

199 U. S.

the judgment of that court must stand, unless the statute, so
construed, is in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment, as
denying to the plaintiff in error the equal protection of the laws.
The proviso contained in the statute does not in any way
vitiate the statute or render it unconstitutional as claimed by
counsel for plaintiff in error.
Statutes passed by the state legislatures in exercise of the
police power, are not necessarily designed for the protection or
welfare of the public generally, as distinguished from those of
a particular class of employ~s exposed to peculiar hazards. M6.
Pac. Ry. Co. v. Mackey, 127 U. S. 205; Minn. & St. Louis Ry.
Co. v. Herrick, 127 U. S. 210; Holden v. Hardy, 169 U. S. 366;
St. Louis Consolidated Coal Co. v. Illinois, 185 U. S. 203.
MR.

JUSTICE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action for the loss of an arm by the plaintiff, the
defendant in error, while repairing an engine of the defendant,
through the negligence of a fellow servant. A statute of Minnesota reads as follows: "Every railroad corporation owning
or operating a railroad in this State shall be liable for all damages sustained by any agent or servant thereof by reason of the
negligence of any other agent or servant thereof, without contributory negligence on his part, when sustained within this
State, and no contract, rule, or regulation between such corpo..
ration and any agent or servant shall impair or diminish such
liability; provided, that nothing in this act shall be so construed
as to render any railroad company liable for damages sustained
by any employ6, agent, or servant, while engaged in the construction of a new road, or any part thereof, not open to public
travel or use." Minn. G. S. 1894, ยง2701. The track on which
the accident happened was a narrov gauge track, on which
dump cars were run by the defendant, a mining company, for
the purpose of stripping the earth from the surface of its mine.
The plaintiff had a verdict which afterwards was set aside
by the trivd court on the ground that if the statute were

MINNESOTA IRON COMPANY v. KLINE.
199 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

construed to apply to this case it would be contrary to the
Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United
States. This ruling was reversed by the Supreme Court of the
State and judgment was entered on the verdict.- 93 Minnesota
63. The case was then brought here.
The Supreme Court of Minnesota construed the act to apply
to this case and held it constitutional when so construed. Of
course, if the statute as interpreted is not within the prohibitions of the Fourteenth Amendment we do not interfere with
the construction adopted by the state court. The state court
held that the act was confined to the dangers peculiar to railroads
and did not discriminate against railroad companies merely
as such. It read the proviso as only' exempting incomplete
roads, marking the time when the statute should take effect,
and not as confining it to roads intended for public travel.
Before us it was argued that when the statute was passed there
were no private railroads in the State, and thatj if the proviso
is taken to mean what the court said, the discrimination is
senseless and unjustified, whereas if it be taken to confine the
statute to public roads after public travel has begun, the distinction may be maintained. We are of a different opinion.
Some time must be fixed when the law shall begin to operate
and the time when the road is finished is a natural and proper
time. There may be unavoidable and exceptional dangers
before the track is finished and while cars are being run over
it for construction purposes, and the legislature might think it
proper that the servant should take the risk of these even if the
negligence of a fellow servant coeperated, just as he takes the
risk of the known peculiar dangers when he sets about repairing
the effects of an accident. The fact that there may be also
dangers like those on the finished road does not prevent the
legislature from considering the situation as a whole and keeping the old rule on practical grounds until the exceptional risks
come to an end. It was assumed in argument that the statute
would not apply to a road like the present if it were built in
aid of the construction of a public railroad which was not yet

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

199 U. S.

completed. We see nothing in the decision or the statute to
warrant the assumption, and therefore need not discuss what
the effect of such an exception would be. Of course there is no
objection to legislation being confined to a peculiar and welldefined class of perils, and it is not necessary that they should
be perils which are shared by the public, if they concern the
body of citizens engaged in a particular work. Holden v.
Hardy, 169 U. S. 366.
It was not argued that the statute was bad as interfering unduly with freedom of contract. There is no doubt that that
freedom may be limited where there are visible reasons of public
policy for the limitation. Holden v. Hardy, 169 U. S. 366, 391.
The constitutionality of the law, so far as it merely does away
with the exception as to the negligence of fellow servants from
the general law of master and servant in the case of railroads,
is not disputed. Missouri Pacific Railway Co. v. Mackey, 127
U. S. 205. The whole case is put on the proviso, and the argument with regard to that is merely one of the many attempts
to impart an overmathematical nicety to the prohibitions of the
Fourteenth Amendment.
Judgment affirmed.

