SOUTH CAROLINA v. UNITED STATES.
199 U. S.

Syllabus.

. The reprieve granted has had the effect doubtless intended
by the chief executive of the State, to allow the cause to be
heard upon appeal in this court. To denominate such an order a proceeding against the prisoner would do violence to the
terms of .the statute and defeat, not carry out, its purpose.
We are unable to find that the appellant has sustained any
violation of rights secured by the Federal Constitution by the
proceedings of the executive or judicial departments of the
State of Vermont. The final order is affirmed, mandate to
issue at once.

SOUTH CAROLINA r. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 10.

Argued April

11, 1905.-Decided December 4, 1905.

Persons who sell liquor are not relieved from liability for the internal revenue
tax imposed by the Federal Government by the fact that they have no
interest in the profits of the business and are simply the agents of a
State which, in the exercise of its sovereign power, has taken charge of
the business' of selling intoxicating liquor. They are persons within the
meaning of sections 3140, 3232 and 3244 Rev. Stat.
The National Government is one of enumerated powers, and a power enumerated and delegated by the Constitution to Congress is comprehensive
and complete, without other limitations than those found in the Constitution itself.
To preserve the even balance between the National and state governments
and hold each in its separate sphere is the duty of all courts, and preeminently of this court.
The Constitution is a written instrument, and, as such, its meaing does
not alter. Its language, as a grant of power to the National Government, is general ana, as changes come in social and political life,
it embraces all new conditions within the scope of the powers conferred.
In interpreting the Constitution recourse mpust be had to the common law,
and also to the position of the framers of the instrument, and what they

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

199 U. S.

must have understood to be the meaning and scope of the grants of
power contained therein must be considered.
That which is implied is as much a part of the Constitution as that which
is expressed, and amongst the implied matters is that the Nation may
not prevent a State from discharging the ordinary functions of government, and no State can interfere with the National Government in the
free exercise of the powers conferred upon it.
The framers of the Constitution in granting to the National Government
full power ovel license taxes intended that the power should be complete
and not to be destroyed by the States extending their functions in a
manner not then contemplated.
A State may control the sale of liquor by the dispensary system adopted in
South Carolina, but when it does so it engages in ordinary private business which is not, by the mere fact that it is being conducted by a State,
exempted from the operation of the taxing power of the National
Government.
The internal revenue tax on the sale of liquor is not a tax on property or
profits of a business but a charge on the business irrespective of the
property used therein, or the profits realized therefrom.
The exemption of state agencies and instrumentalities from National taxation is limited to those which are of a strictly governmental character,
and does not extend to those-used by the State in carrying on an ordinary
private business.

By several statutes, the State of South Carolina established
dispensaries for the wholesale and retail sale of liquor, and
prohibited sale by other than the dispensers. The United
States demanded the license taxes prescribed by the internal
revenue act for dealers in intoxicating liquors, and the dispensers filed the statutory applications for such licenses. The
State, sometimes in cash and sometimes by warrant on its
treasury, paid the taxes. No protest was made in reference
to these )ayments prior to April 14, 1901. On that day a
formal protest by the state dispensary commissioner was filed
with the United States collector of internal revenue at Columbia, South Carolina. No appeal or application for the repayment of the sums paid by the various dispensers was made by
them or by the State of South Carolina to the Commissioner
of Internal'Revenue, as authorized by sections 3226, 3227 and
3228 Rev. Stat.
The dispensers had no interest in the sales and received no

SOUTH CAROLINA v. UNITED STATES.
199 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

profit therefrom. The entire profits were appropriated by the
State, one-half being divided equally between the municipality
and the county in which the dispensaries were located, and the
other half paid into the state treasury. In the year 1901 the
profits arising from these sales amounted to $545,248.12.
While the laws of South Carolina prohibited the sale of liquor
by individuals other than the dispensers, of 373 special license
stamps issued in that State by the United States internal
revenue collector, only 112 were to dispensers, while 260 were
to private individuals. Three separate actions were conimenced in the Court of Clainis by the State of South Carolina
to recover the amounts paid for these license taxes. These
actions were consolidated. Upon a hearing findings of fact
were made and a judgment entered for the United States.
39 Court of Claims leports, 257.1 Whereupon the State appealed to this court.
1The points decided by the Court of Claims, as stated in the syllabus of
the opinion delivered by the Chief Justice of that court, are as follows:
I. The buying and selling of alcoholic liquors for a profit stamps upon
the South Carolina dispensary system a commercial character in
addition to that of a police regulation.
II. The framers of the Constitution had before them three purposes:
The construction of a new National Government; the establishment of a dual system of goveriment with the distribution of powers
between the General or National Government and the local or state
Governments; the placing of certain immutable restrictions upon
the powers of government to secure the individual rights of the
citizen. They attempted no restrictive legislation, but left the
people of the United States free to make their own laws.
III. The national authority to "lay and collect taxes, duties, imposts, and
excises" is expressly given; the police power, whether of the National or state Governments, is neither given nor restricted by the
Constitution.
IV. The police power is the power to impose those restraints upon private
rights which are necessary for the general welfare. It is a power
inherent in all governments, needing neither grant nor recognition
by the Constitution.
V. The general welfare is one thing; exemption from taxation is another.
If a State unites in one undertaking an exercise of the police power
with a commercial business, the National Government can not be
compelled to aid the operation of the police power by foregoing

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Appellant.

199 U. S.

Mr. Jackson H. Ralston, with whom Mr. FranklinH. Mackey
(now deceased) and Mr. FrederickL. Siddons were on the brief,
for appellant:
I The provisions of sections 3232 and 3244 of the Revised
Statutes apply to "persons" and not to a State of the Federal Union or its instrumentalities of government.
The attorneys general have so held. 12 Op. 176, 277, 376,
402; 13 Op. 67, 439. Also the courts. Georgia v. Atkins, 35
Georgia, 315; United States v. B. & 0. R. R. Co., 17 Wall. 322;
Van Brocklin v. Tennessee, 117 U. S. 151; Collector v. Day, 11
Wall. 113; Dobbins v. Erie County, 16 Pet. 435; United States
v. Louisville, 169 U. S. 249.
It is true that for the purpose of effectuating justice and
sustaining the jurisdiction of courts, States have been held
to be persons. Honduras v. Soto, 112 N. Y. 310; Martin v.
State, 24 Texas, 61, but this is not the ordinary or legal interpretation of the word. United States v. Fox, 94 U. S. 315;
McBride v. Reice County, 44 Fed. Rep. 17. Salt Lake City v.
Hollister, 118 U. S. 256, distinguished, see Manufacturing Co.
v. Improvement Co., 25 Washington, 667. In the congressional
definition given by Congress in the act of 1877 to the word
"Person," States were not included.
The Constitution contains no grant of power to Congress,
express or implied, to tax a State or its means and instrumentalities of government; and the exercise by Congress of a
power not expressly or impliedly granted by the Constitution
to it is impliedly forbidden. Cooley's Const. Lim. ยง 480;
its constitutional right to lay and collect an impost or excise on
the business part of the transaction.
VI. The Constitution contains no grant of power, express or implied,
which authorizes the General Government to tax a State through
its means and instrumentalities of government; but an excise on
the dealer is a tax upon the congamer; and the exemption of the
State from taxation extends no further than the functionA belonging to a State in its. ordinary capacity.
VII. The principle which rules and guides in such cases is this: The exemption of sovereignty extends n6 further than the attributes of sovereignty.

SOUTH CAROLINA v. UNITED STATES.
199 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, 432; Income Tax Case,
157 U. S. 429.
State property and state instrumentalities in the administration of its government cannot be taxed, directly. or indirectly, by the Federal Government. Warren v, Paul, 22
Indiana, 276; State v. Gaston, 32 Indiana, 1; Jones v. Keep, 19
Wisconsin, 390; Sayler v.. Davis, 22 Wisconsin, 225; Union
Bank v. Hill, 3 Coldw. (Tenn.) 325; Smith v. Shorl, 40 Alabama,
385; Freedmanv. Sigel, 10 Blatchf. C. C. 327."The power to tax includes the )ower to destroy;" therefore the police power, like the judicial power of a State, may
be destroyed by Congress under the guise of taxation,- if the
right to tax it exists at all. If Congress can tax the instrumentalities chosen by the State to carry out its police power,
then, under the plea of the right to tax, it may tax the lispensary agents so heavily as to tax them out of existence as
it did the state banks. Fifield v. Close, 15 Michigan, 505.
The Internal Revenue Office, even while demanding this
tax, has from time to time passed on this constitutional question of the limitation upon the taxing power of the United
States over state instrumentalities, and has invariably conceded the principle now contended for. See Int. Rer. Rec.,
145, 1870.
The United States holds the money collected from the
dispensaries to the use of the State and must refund it.
This money has, been paid by the revenue collector into the
United States Treasury. To whom does it belong? The answer, of course, is that it is ex cequo et bono the money of the
State of South Carolina. The United States holds it in good
conscience to the use of the State. Johnson's Case, 17 C. Cl.
157; Devlin's Case, 12 C. Cl. 266; United States v. Bank, 96
U. S. 30.
In the case at bar it was obtained by an honest mistake.
Fraud, accident, and mistake are alike equitable grounds of
relief. Money. paid under a mistake of law and not of fact
by private parties cannot generally be recovered, but that

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Appellant.

199 U. S.

doctrine does not apply to a State. Barnes v. District of
Columbia, 22 C. Cl. 366, 394; Wisconsin R. R. v. United States,
164 U. S. 190.
The money in the case at bar has been unlawfully obtained
from the State by mistake of all the parties. No appeal to the
Internal Revenue Commissioner is necessary-this is not a
"revenue case." Sections 3226, 3227 and 3228 Rev. Stat.,
do not apply to a State. To appeal to the Commissioner
would be a surrender by the State of the very point in controversy. Fassett's Case, 142 U. S. 479, 487; De Lima v. Bidwell, 182 U S. 1, 178, which modifies or distinguishes Nichols
v. United States, 7 Wall. 122; see also Boughton's Case, 12 C. Cl.,
330.
The money was paid without authority of the State which.
is not bound by the unauthorized act of the agent. Such is
the case as to the United States. Wis. Cent. R. R. Co. v.
United States, 164 U. S. 440, and the same doctrine applies
to a State, especially when the recipient is the United States.
Money paid under .mistake of law as this was may be recovered in this court even when a private party is the claimant, and, a fortiori, when a State, which can act only by its
agents, ;s the claimant, and the Court of Claims has jurisdiction under the Tucker act. Snell v. Insurance Co., 98 U. S.
85, 90;' United States v. Bank, 96 U. S. 30.
The dispensary law is constitutional and is a legitimate
exercise by the State of its police power. Crowley v. Christensen, 137 U. S. 90; George.v, Aiken, 42 So. Car, 222.
The dispensary system comes well within the police powers
of the State, 'for if a State may take a perfectly worthless piece
of paper and, by .stamping certain arrangements of words- and
figures upon it, sell that paper as a license to an individual to
carry on the liquor business, making thereby a direct profit,
it does' no act differing in any degree in' principle if, instead of
selling such paper privilege, it sells the liquor itself. In either
event, the prime object is to control within certain fixed limits
the traffic in an article, the excessive use of which is confessedly

SOUTH CAROLINA v. UNITED STATES.
199 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

an evil, and it may not be said that because under one system
or the other a profit arises to the State, therefore the police
powers of the State are being improperly exercised for coinmercial ends. License Cases, 5 How. 583; Vance v. Vandercook
Co., 170 U. S.444.
The statute. 'must be construed as it stands. If Congress
intended to subject States to the tax it is a case of casus omissus
and the court cannot supply the lacking words. Denn v.
Reid, 10 Pet. 527; Bate Co. v. Sulzberger, 157 U. S. 57; Lake
County v. Rollins, 130 U. S. 662.
The Solicitor General for the United States:
The State is fairly covered by the language of the law. A
municipal corporation, a State, a foreign State and the United
States may be included by the word "person" or "corporation" in a statute; regarding a State as possessing a corporate
and municipal side as well as a sovereign character. Martin
v. State, 24 Texas, 61; Indiana v. Woram, 6 Hill (N. Y.), 33;
Lancaster Co. v. Trimble, 34 Nebraska, 752; Kansas v. Herold,
9 Kansas, 194; Republic of Honduras v. Soto, 112 N. Y. 310;
Salt Lake City v. Hollister, 118 U. S. 256. Opinions of the
Attorneys General to the contrary have either been overruled
or are distinguishable, as they relate to attempts to tax the
property or legitimate governmental instrumentalities of a
State. 12 Op. 176, 277, 376, 402; 13 Op. 67, 439; National
Bank v. United States, 101 U. S.1. Tim principle of exemption
from the Federal taxing power on this grownd has been frequently stated. Income Tax Cases, 157 U. S.429,. 584; United
States v. B. & 0. R. R., 17 Wall. 322. In the latter case, describing objects beyond the taxing power of Congress, the language is,--" all necessary agencies for legitimate purposes of
state government." This case is outside the rule; the business
taxed is not such an agency. In state liquor licenses the documentary license required by state laws is exempt from Federal
taxation, but the business is not. Former internal revenue
rulings to the contrary have related to laws like those of Maine,

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for the United States.

199 U. S.

Massachusetts and Vermont, which were a real measure of prohibition and only permitted sales for limited purposes, medicinal and industrial. For that reason the State's agents were
relieved of the special tax. This is not a tax on persons or
property at all, but an excise resting on the sale of the goods
and paid in the last analysis by the consumer. It is a tax on
the business; it is merely an expense of that business. There
is no burden on the State or its property. The taxation is
indirect anti is valid as a mere excise on the transaction of a
business. Pacific Ins. Co. v. Soule, 7 Wall, 433; Veazie Bank
v. Fenno, 8 Wall. 533; Scholey v. Rew, 23 Wall. 331; Nicol v.
Ames, 173 U. S. 509; Knowlton v. Moore, 178 U. S. 41; Patton
v. Brady, 184 U. S. 608; Spreckels Refining Co. v. McClain,
192 U. S. 397.
The excise is levied pursuant to express constitutional grant
of power. The reserved police power of the States cannot
control the powers created or prohibitions imposed by the
Constitution. The Federal' taxing power is broad and untrammeled. It runs concurrently with the state taxing power
when they affect the same objects. A liquor excise is about
the most familiar example of its operation and scope. McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316; Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat.
1; License Tax Cases, 5 Wall. 462; Austin v. Alderman, 7 Wail.
694; Knowlton v. Moore, 178 U. S. 41; The OleomargarineCases,
195 U. S. 27. State police power is subordinate to Federal
power under the Constitution. Bowmah v. Chicago & Northwestern R. Co., 125 U. S. 465, 507;,IRailroad Co. v.' Husen, 95
U. S. 465, 473. This rule applies to interstate commerce in
liquor, Walling v. Michigan, 116 U. S. 446; Leisy v. Hardin,
135 U. S. 100; Lyng v. Michigan, 135 U. S. 161, although
permissive legislation of Congress now recognizes a larger
state control than formerly. In re Rahrer, 140 U. S. 545;
Rhodes v. Iowa, 170 U. S. 412; Vance v. Vandercook Co., 170
U. S. 438; American Express Co. v. Iowa, 196 U. S. 133. But
in the absence of such permissive legislation the States may
not, under their police power, interfere with interstate com-

SOUTH CAROLINA v. UNITED STATES.
199 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

merce. The principle of the absoluteness of a power or right
under the Constitution is illustrated by its prohibitions. States
cannot impair their contracts, and the assertion of the police
power must yield to this prohibition. Bridge Proprietors v.
Hoboken Co., 1 Wall. 116; The Binghamton Bridge, 3 Wall. 51;
Asylum v. Home of the Friendless, 8 Wall. 430; Humphrey v.
Pegues, 16 Wall. 244, 248, 249; Farrington v. Tennessee, 95
U. S.679, 689; Asylum v. New Orleans, 105 U. S. 362, 368.
State statutes are unconstitutional whenever they conflict by
their necessary operation and effect, with the paramount authority of Congress. Henderson v. Mayor, 92 U. S. 259; Chy
Lung v. Freeman, 92 U. S.275. Although the police power is
from its nature incapable of exact definition or limitation,
Slaughter-house Cases, 16 Wall. 36; Stone v. Mississippi, 101
U. S. 814, 818, all definitions must "be taken subject to the
condition that the State cannot, in its exercise for any purpose whatever, encroach upon the powers of the general Government or rights granted or secured by the supreme law of
the land. A municipal agency of the State is subject to
Federal taxation, although the effect of that tax may be destructive. New Orleans Gas Co. v. Louisiana Light Co., 115
U. S. 650. The bank tax cases control the present case.
Veazie Bank v. Fenno, 8 Wall. 533; National Bank v. United
States, 101 U. S. 1.
The dispensary system is not a valid exercise of the police
power, and the State has deliberately embarked in a commercial enterprise for the sole object of profit. The consequences
of construction are not conclusive, yet are often worthy of
notice. United States v. Edmonston, 181 U. S. 500. If the
State's contentions are well founded, she may assume entire
control of the manufacture and sale of liquors and tobacco without paying taxes; she may import free liquors and drugs and
cloths; she may engage in any business whatever, under the
police claim, on just as good grounds, and claim to be free of
all Federal taxation. If some States chose to follow the lead
of Australia or New Zealand, on the theory of the government

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for the United States.

199 IT. S,

ownership of land and leases to occupants in place of private
ownership and title, the right of direct taxation also by the
United States would fall before its claim. If one State could
pursue these theories, all States could, and the result would
be that the Federal power of taxation, both direct and indirect, would be destroyed.
A State is the sole and absolute judge whether the liquor
traffic is inherently injurious to the health, morals and welfare
of its people. The State, if of opinion that liquors are injurious, may prohibit their sale as a beverage absolutely, or
may restrict and regulate under high license. It cannot, however, under the pretense of remedying evils, forbid citizens to
engage in the business and then turn it into a government
monopoly. This law is entirely unlike those which, declaring
that the sale and consumption of liquor are harmful, permit
sale in a limited way only for medicinal and mechanical purposes, but prohibit sale as a beverage to everyone. The South
Carolina law is not the exercise of legitimate power of police
reserved to the States. Mugler v. Kansas, 123 U. S. 623, 661;
Minnesota v. Barber, 136 IJ. S. 313; Brimmer v. Rebman, 138
U. S. 78; Voight v. Wright, 141 U. S. 62; Booth v. Illinois, 184
U. S. 425, 429.
Is the trade incident to the police regulation, or the police
regulation incident to the trade? Examination of the South
Carolina statutes of 1892 and 1893, with their later amendments, and consideration of the mesages of her governors
from 1892 on, with other public state documents, show clearly
that the dispensary system does not purport to be a police
regulation of the liquor traffic, but merely a scheme whereby
the State realizes the profits of the business instead of private
individuals. The net profits in one year were over $500,000.
When a State enters into business as a corporator, it lays
down its sovereignty so far. Bank of United States v. Planters'
Bank, 9 Wheat. 904; Bank of Kentucky v. Wister, 2 Pet. 318;
Briscoe v. Bank of Kentucky, 11 Pet. 323; Railroad Co. v. Letson, 2 How. 551; Curran v. Arkansas, 15 How. 308. This

SOUTH CAROLINA v. UNITED STATES.
199 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

principle applies, however th state's business may be conducted, whether as 41iber of a partnership or of a corporation or, as here, by the State acting alone and exercising an
exclusive monopoly. The State chooses to step lown from
its sovereignty and must take the consequences. When the
United States. avails of the law merchant, it is bound by the
rule's of that law, notwithstanding its sovereignty. United
States v. Bank of Metropolis, 15 Pet. 377, 392; United States v.
State Bank, 96 U. S. 30,!36.
If a State embarks in the liquor business, it does so with
the same consequences and subject to the same liabilities
under the law as a private individual or an ordinary corporation; the internal revenue taxes collected from the South
Carolina dispensary system were therefore 1properly exacted.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER, after making the foregoing state-

ment, delivered the opinion of the court.
The important question in this case is, whether persons who
are selling liquor are relieved from liability for the internal
revenue tax by the fact that they have no interest in the profits
of the business and are simply the agents of a State which, in
the exercise of its sovereign power, has taken charge of the
business of selling intoxicating liquors. It is true a further
question is made whether the act of Congress is broad enough
to include such persons. But upon this we have little doubt.
Section 3232 Rev. Stat provides:
"No person shall be engaged in nor carry on any trade or
business hereinafter mentioned until he has paid a special
tax therefor in the manner hereinafter provided."
Section 3244, contains these words of description:
"Every person who sells, or offers for sale foreign or domestic distilled spirits or wines, in less quantities than five
wine gallons at the same time, shall be regarded as a retail
dealer in liquors."
"Person" is also defined:

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

199 U. S.

Where not otherwise distinctly expressed or manifestly incompatible with the intent thereof, the
word 'person,' as used in this title, shall be construed to mean
and include a partnership, association, company, or corporation, as well as a natural person."
Now, the dispensers were persons who sold liquors. They
applied for and received the licenses. True they were acting
simply as agents of the State, but if the fact that the State
was the principal creates no exemption from Federal taxation
then the statute reaches them because they were the actual
sellers.
We pass, therefore, to the vital question in the case, and it
is one of far-reaching significance. We have in this Republic
a dual system of government, National and state, each operating within the same territory and upon the same persons; and
yet working without collision, because their functions are
different. There are certain matters over which the National
Government has absolute control and no action of the State
can interfere therewith, and there are others in which the State
is supreme, and in respect to them the National Government
is powerless. To preserve the even balance between these two
governments and hold each in its separate sphere is the peculiar duty of all courts, pre~minently of this-a duty oftentimes 6f great delicacy and difficulty.
Two propositions in our constitutional jurisprudence are
no longer debatable. One is that the National Government
is one of enumerated powers, and the other that a power
enumerated, and delegated by the Constitution to Congfess is
comprehensive and complete, without other limitations than
those found in the Constitution itself.
The Constitution is a written instrument. As such its
meaning does not alter. That which it meant when adopted
it means now. Being a grant of powers to a government its
language is general, and as changes come in social and political
life it embraces in its grasp all new conditions which are within
the scope of the powers in-terms conferred. ''In other words,
"SEC. 3140.

.

.

.

SOUTH CAROLINA v. UNITED STATES.
199 U. S.

Opinion of the Cou4.

while the powers granted do not change, they apply from
generation to generation to all things to which they ate in
their nature applicable. This in no manner abridges the fact
of its changeless nature and meaning. Those things which are
within its grants of power, as those grants were understood
when made, are still within them, and those things not within
them remain still excluded. As said by Mr. Chief Justice Taney
in Dred Scott v. Sandford, 19 How. 393, 426:
"It is not only the same in words, but the same in meaning,
and delegates the same powers to the Government, and, reserves
and secures the same rights and privileges to the citizens; and
as long as it continues to exist in its present form, it speaks not
only in the same words, but with the same meaning and
intent with which it spoke when it came from the hands of its
framers, and was voted on and adopted by the people of the'
United States. Any other rule of construction would abrogate
the judicial character of this court, and make it the mere reflex
of the popular opinion or passion of the (lay."
It must also be remembered that the framers of the Constitution were not mere visionaries, toying with speculations
or theories, but practical men, dealing with the facts of political
life as they understood them, putting into form the government they were creating, and prescribing in language clear
and intelligible the powers that government was to take. Mr.
Chief Justice Marshall,' in Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 188,
well declared:
"As men whose intentions require no concealment, generally employ the words which most directly and aptly express
the ideas they intend to convey, the enlightened patriots who
framed our Constitution, and the people who adopted it, must
be understood to have employed words in their natural sense,
and to have intended what they have said."
One other fact must'be borne in mind, and that is that in
interpreting the Constitution we must have recourse to the
common law. As said by Mr. Justice Matthews in Smith v.
Alabama, 124 U. S. 465, 478:
Vou. cxcix--29

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

199 U. S.

"The interpretation of the Constitution of the United States
is necessarily influenced by the fact that its provisions are
framed in the language of the English common law, auld are
to be read in the light of its history."
And by Mr. Justice Gray in United States v. Wong Kim Ark169 U. S. 649, 654:
"In this, as in other respects, it must be interpreted in the
light of the common law, the principles and history of which
were familiarly known to the framers of the Constitution.
Minor v. Happersett, 21 Wall. 162; Ex parte Wilson, 114 U. S.
417, 422; Boyd v. United States, 116 U. S.616, 624, 625; Smith
v. Alabama, 124 U. S. 465. The language of the Constitution,
as has been well said, could not be understood without reference to the common law. 1 Kent Com. 336; Bradley, J., in
Moore v. United States, 91 U. S. 270, 274."
To determine the extent of the grants of power we must,
therefore, place ourselves in the position of the men who
framed and adopted the Constitution, and inquire what they
must have understood to be the meaning and scope of those'
grants.
By the first clause of section 8 of Article I of the Constitution, Congress is given the "power to lay and collect taxes,
duties, imposts and excises, to pay the debts and provide for
the common defense and general welfare of the United States;
but all duties, imposts and excises shall be uniform throughout
the United States."
By this clause the grant is limited in two ways: The revenue
must be collected foir public purposes, and all duties, imposts
and excises must be uniform throughout the United States.
The fourth, fifth and sixth clauses of section 9 of Article I are:
"4. No capitation, or other direct, tax shall be laid, unless
in proportion to the census or enumeration herein before directed to be taken.
"5. No tax or duty shall be laid on articles exported from
any State.
"6. No preference shall be given by any regulation of. com-

SOUTH CAROLINA v. UNITED STATES.
199 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

merce or revenue to the ports of one State over those of another:'nor shall vessels bound to, or from, one State, be obliged
to enter, clear, or pay duties in another."
Article V bf the Amendments provides that no one shall be
deprived of "life, liberty, or property, without due process of
law."
These are all the constitutional provisions that bear directly
upon the subject. It will be seen that the only qualifications
of the absolute, untrammeled power to lay and collect excises
are that they shall be for public purposes, and that they shall
be uniform throughout the United States. All other limitations named in the Constitution relate to taxes, duties and
imposts. If, therefore, we confine our inquiry to the express
provisions of the Constitution there i, disclosed no limitation
on the power of the General Government to collect license taxes.
But it is undoubtedly true that that which is implied is as
much a part of the Constitution as that which is expressed.
As said by Mr. Justice Miller in Ex parte Yarbrough, 110 U. S.
651, 658:
"The proposition that it has no such power is supported
by the old argument often heard, often repeated, and in this
court never assented to, that when a question of the power of
Congress arises the advocate of the power must be able to place
his finger on words which expressly grant it. The brief of
counsel before us, though directed to the authority of that body
to pass criminal laws, uses the same language. Because there
is no express power to provide for preventing violence exercised on the voter as a means of controlling his vote, no such
law can be enacted. It destroys at one blow, in construing
the Constitution of the United States, the doctrine universally
applied to all instruments of writing, that what is implied is
as much a part of the instrument as what is expressed."
Among those matters which are implied, though not expressed, is that the Nation may not, in the exercise of its powers,
prevent a State from discharging the ordinary functions of
government, just as it follows from the second clause of Arti-

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

199 U. S.

cle VI of the Constitution, that no State can interfere with the
free and unembarrassed exercise by the National Government
of all the powers conferred upon it.
"This Constitution, and the laws of the United-States which
shall be made in pursuance thereof; and all treaties made, or
which shall be made, under the authority of the United States,
shall be the supreme law of the land; and the judges in every
State shall be bound thereby, anything in the constitution or
laws of any State to the contrary notwithstanding."
In other words, the two governments, National and- state,
are each to exercise their power so as not to interfere with the
free and full exercise by the other of its powers. This proposition, so far as the Nation is concerned, was affirmed at an early
day in the great case of M'Culloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316,
in which it was held that the State had no power to pass a law
imposing a tax upon the operations of a national bank. The
case is familiar and needs not to be quoted from. No answer
has ever been made to the argument of Mr. Chief Justice Marshall, and the propositions there laid down have become fundamental in our constitutional jurisprudence. Osborn v. Bank
of United States, 9 Wheat. 738; Weston v. City Council of Charleston, 2 Pet. 449; Bank of Commerce v. New York, 2 Black, 620;
Bank Tax Case, 2 Wall. 200; The Banks v. The Mayor, 7 Wall. 16.
The limitations on the powers of the States to tax national
banks are founded upon the doctrines laid down in that case.
So also the immunity of national property from state taxation.
It is true that in most of the enabling acts for the admission
of new States there is express provision that the property of
the Nation shall be free from state taxation, but as shown by
Mr. Justice Gray, delivering the opinion of the court in Van
Brocklin v. Tennessee, 117 U. S.151, this provision is merely
declaratory and unnecessary to establish the exemption of
national property from state taxation. See also Dobbins v.
Commissioners of Erie County, 16 Pet. 435, as to taxation by
a State of an officer of the United States for his office or its
emoluments.

SOUTH CAROLINA v. UNITED STATES.
199 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The converse of this proposition has also been declared by
the decisions of this court. In Texas v. White, 7 Wall. 700,
725, Mr Chief Justice Chase, speaking for the court, declared:
"Not' only, therefore, can there be no loss of separate and
independent autonomy to the States, through their union under
the Constitution, but it may be not unreasonably said that
the preservation of the States, and the maintenance of their
governments, are as much within the design and care of the
Constitution as the preservation of the Union and the maintenance of the National Government. The Constitution, in
all its provisions, looks to an indestructible Union, composed
of indestructible States."
In The Collector v. Day, 11 Wall. 113, it was held that it was
not competent for Congress to impose a tax upon the salary
of a judicial officer of a State. In the opinion of the court,
delivered by Mr. Justice Nelson, it was said (p. 127):
"It is admitted that there is no express provision in the
Constitution that prohibits the General Government from
taxing the means and instrumentalities of the States, nor i:
there any prohibiting the States from taxing the means and
instrumentalities of that Government. In both cases the exemption rests upon necessary implication, and is upheld by
the great law of self-preservation; as any government, whose
means employed in conducting its operations, if subject to the
control of another and distinct government, can exist only at
the mercy of that government. Of what avail are these means
if another power may tax them at discretion?"
See also United States v. Railroad Company, 17 Wall. 322;
Pollock v. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co., 157 U. S. 429, 584.
Upon this proposition counsel for plaintiff in error rely.
There being no constitutional limit as to the amount of a
license tax, and the power to tax being the power to destroy,
if Congress can enforce such a tax against a State it may destroy this effort of the State in the exercise of its police power
to control the sale of liquor. It cannot be doubted that the
regulation of the sale of liquor comes within the scope of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

199 U. S.

police power, and equally true that the police power is in its fullest and broadest sense reserved to the States; that the mode
of exercising that power is left to their discretion, and is not
subject to National supervision. But if Congress may tax the
agents of the State charged with the duty of selling intoxicating liquors, it in effect assumes a certain control over this police
power, an( thus may embarrass and even thwart the attempt
(;f tile State to carry on this mode of regulation.
We are not insensible to the force of this argument, and
appreciate the difficulties which it presents, but let us see to
what it leads. " Each State is subject only to the limitations
prescribed by the Constitution and within its own territory is
otherwise supreme. Its internal affairs are matters of its own
.discretion. The Constitution provides that "the United States
shall guarantee to every State in this Union a republican form
of government." Art. IV, sec. 4. That expresses the full
limit of National control over the internal affairs of a State.
The right of South Carolina to control the sale of liquor by
the dispensary system has been sustained. Vance v. W. A.
Va'ndrcook Co., No. 1, 170 U. S. 438. The profits from the
business in the year 1901, as appears from the findings of fact,
were over half a million of dollars. Mingling. the thought of
profit with the necessity of regulation may induce the State
to take possession, in like manner, of tobacco, oleomargarine,
and all other objects of internal revenue tax. If one State finds
it thus profitable other States may follow, and the whole body
of internal revenue tax be thus stricken down.
More than this. There is a large and growing movement in
the country in favor of the acquisition and management by
the public of what are termed public utilities, including not
merely therein the supply of gas and water, but also the entire
railroad system. Would the State by taking into possession
these public utilities lose its republican form of government?
We may go even a step further. There are some insisting
that the State shall become the owner of all property and the
manager of all business. Of course, this is an extreme view,

SOUTH CAROLINA v. UNITED STATES.
199 V. S.

Opinion of the Court.

but its advocates are earnestly contending that thereby the
best interests of all citizens will be subserved. If -this change
should be made in any State, how much would that State contribute to the revenue of the Nation? If this extreme action
is not to be -counted among the probabilities, consider the result of one much less so. Suppose a State assumes under its
police power the control of all those matters subject to the
internal revenue tax and also engages in the business of importing all foreign goods. The same argument which would
exempt the sale by a State of liquor, tobacco, etc., from a
license tax would exempt the importation of merchandise by
a State from import duty. While the State might not prohibit
importations, as it can the sale of liquor, by private individuals,
yet paying no import duty it could undersell all individuals
and so monopolize the importation and sale of foreign goods.
Obviously, if the power of the State is carried to the extent
suggested, and with it is relief from all Federal taxation, the
National Government would be largely crippled in its revenues. Indeed, if all the States should coj!cur in exercising
their powers to the full extent, it would be alnost impossibl
for the Nation to collect any revenues. In other words, in
this indirect way it would be within the competency of the
States to practically destroy the efficiency of the Nativoal
Government. If it be said that the States can he trusted not
to resort to any such extreme mneasures, because of the rslt ing interference with the efficiency of the National, Govet 1tment, we may turn to the opinion of Mr. Chief Justice Marshall
in M'Culloch v. Maryland, supra (p. 431), for a complete an-

swer:
"But is this a case of confidence? Would the people of any
one State trust those of another with -a power to control the
most insignificant ol(ratioins of their state governnient? We
know they would not. Why, then, should we suppose that
the people of any one State should he willing to trust those of
another with the power to cordmol the operations of a government to which they have confided Vheir roost 1iuportant and

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

most valuable interests?

199 U. a.

In the legislature of the Union alone,
are all represented. The legislature of the Union alone, therefore, can be trusted by the people with the power of controlling
measures which concern all, in the confidence that it will, not
be abused."
In other words, we are to find in the Constitution itself the
full protection to the Nation, and not to rest its sufficiency on
either the generosity or the neglect of any State.
There is something of a conflict between the full power of
the Nation in respect to taxation and the exemption of the
State from Federal taxation in respect to its property and a
discharge of all its functions. Where and how shall the line
between them be drawn? We have seen that the full power
of collecting license taxes is in terms granted to the National
Government with only the limitations of uniformity and the
public benefit. The exemption- of the State's property and
its functions from Federal taxation is implied from the dual
character of our Federal system and the necessity of preserving
the State in all its efficiency. In order to determine to what
extent that implication will go we must turn to the condition
of things at the time the Constitution was framed. What, in
the light of that condition, did the framers of the convention
intend should be exempt? Certain is it that modern notions
as to the extent to which the functions of a State may be
carried had then no hold. Whatever Utopian theories may
have been pf'esented by any writers were regarded as mere
creations of fancy, and had no practical recognition. It is
true that monopolies in respect to certain commodities were
known to have been granted by absolute monarchs, but they
were not regarded as consistent with Anglo-Saxon ideas of
government. The opposition to the Constitution came not
from any apprehension of danger from the extent of power
reserved to the States, but, on the other hand, entirely through
fear of what might result from the exercise of the powers granted
to the central government. While many believed that the
liberty of the people depended on the preservation of the rights

SOUTH CAROLINA v. UNITED STATES.
199 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of the States, they had no thought that those States would
extend their functions beyond their then recognized scope, or
so as to imperil the life of the Nation. As well said by Chief
Justice Nott, delivering the opinion of the Court of Claims in
this case (39 C. Cl. 284):
"Moreover, at the time of the adoption of the Constitution
there probably was not dne person in the country who seriously contemplated the possibility of government, whether
State or National, ever descending from its primitive plant of
a body politic to take up the work of the individual or body
corporate. The public suspicion associated government with
patents of nobility, with an established church, with standing
armies, and distrusted all governments. Even in the high
intelligence of the convention there were men who trembled
at the power given to the President, who trembled at the power
which the Senate might usurp, who feared that the life tenure
of the judiciary might imperil the liberties of the people.
Certain it is that if the possibility of a government usurping
the ordinary business of individuals, driving them out of the
market, and maintaining place and power by means of what
would have been called, in the heated invective of tle time,
'a legion of mercenaries,' had been in the public mind, the
Constitution would not have been adopted, or an inhibition
of such power would have been placed among Madison's
Amendments."
Looking, therefore, at the Constitution in the light of the
conditions surrounding at the time of its adoption, it is obvious
that the framers in granting full power over license taxes to
the National Government meant that that power should be
complete, and never thought that the States by extending
their functions could practically destroy it.
If we look upon the Constitution in the light of the coinmon

law we are led to the same conclusion. All the avenues of trade
were open to the individual. The Government did not attempt
to exclude him from any. Whatever restraints were put upon
him were mere police regulations to control his conduct in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

199 U. S.

business and not to exclude him therefrom. The Government
was no competitor, nor did it assume to carry on any business
which ordinarily is carried on by individuals. Indeed, every
at.tempt.at monopoly was odious in the eyes of the common
law, and it mattered not how that monopoly arose, whether
from grant of the sovereign or otherwise. The framers of the
Constitution were not anticipating that a State would attempt
to monopolize any business heretofore carried on by individuals.
Further, it may be noticed that the tax is not imposed on
any property belonging to the State, but is a charge on a business before any profits are realized therefrom. In this it is
not unlike the taxes sustained in United States v. Perkins,
163 U. S.625, and Snyder v. Bettman, 190 U. S. 249. In the
former case a succession tax of the State of New. York was sustained, although the property charged therewith was bequeathed by will to the United States, the court holding that
the latter acquired no property until after the state charges
for transmission had been paid, saying (p. 629):
"'This, therefore, is not a tax upon the property itself, but
is merely the price exacted by the State for the privilege accorded-in permitting property so situated to be transferred by
will or by descent or distribution.'"
In Snyder v. Bettman, the succession tax required by the
laws of Congress was sustained, although the bequest was to
the city of Springfield, Ohio. This is almost a converse to the
Perkins case. It was held that while the power to regulate
inheritances and testamentary dispositions was one belonging
to the State, and therefore subject to such conditions as the
State might see fit to impose (as held in the Perkins case),
yet the power to impose a succession tax was vested in Congress, that it could be exercised upon a bequest made to a
i unicipality or a State, and was not to be considered as a
tax upon the property bequeathed, the court saying (p. 254):
"Having determined, then, that Congress has the power to
tax successions; that the States have the same power, and that
such power extends to bequests to the United States, it would

SOUTH CAROLINA v. UNITED STATES.
199 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

seem to follow logically that Congress has the same power to
tax the transmission of property by legacy to States, or their
municipalities, and that the exercise of that power in neither
case conflicts with the proposition that neither the Federal nor
the state government can tax the property or agencies of the
other, since, as repeatedly held, the taxes imposed are not upon
property, but upon the right to succeed to property."
So here the charge is not upon the property of the State,
but upon the means by which that property is acquired, and
before it is acquired.
It is also worthy of remal~rk that the cases in which the invalidity of a Federal tax has been affirmed were those in which
the tax was attempted to be levied upon property belonging
to the State, or one of its municipalities, or was a charge upon
the means and instrumentalities employed by the State, in
the discharge of its ordinary functions as a government.
In Veazie Banc v. Fenno, 8 Wall. 533, in which a National
tax of ten per cent on the amount of notes of any person,
state bank, or banking association, used for circulation, was
sustained, the court thus stated the limits of the power of
National taxation over state agencies (p. 547):
"It may be admitted that the reserved rights of the States,
such as the right to pass laws, to give effect to laws through
executive action, to administer justice through the courts, and
to employ all necessary agencies for legitimate purposes of
state government, are not proper subjects of the taxing power
of Congress."
In The Collector v. Day, 11 Wall. 113, cited supra, in the argument in favor of the exemption of the salary of a state judge
from National taxation, is this language (p. 125)"
"It would seem to follow, as a reasonable, if not a necessary
consequence, that the means and instrumentalities employed
for carrying on the operations of their governments, for preserving their existence, and fulfilling the high and responsible
duties assigned to them in the Constitution, should be left freu
and unimpaired, should not be liable to be crippled, much less

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

199 iT. S.

defeated by the taxing power of another government, which
power acknowledges no limits but the will of the legislative
body imposing the tax. And, more especially, those means
and instrumentalities which are the creation of their sovereign
and reserved rights, one of which is the establishment of the
judicial department, and the appointment of officers to administer their laws: Without this power, and the exercise of
it, we risk nothing in saying that no one of the States under
the form of government guaranteed by the Constitution could
long preserve its existence."
In United States v. Railroad Company, 17 Wall. 322, an
attempt was made to collect a tax on money due from a railroad company to the city of Baltimore. It was held that the
city was a portion of the State in the exercise of a limited
portion of the powers of the State, and the court said (p. 327):
"The right of the States to administer their own affairs
through their legislative, executive, and judicial departments,
in their own manner through their own agencies, is conceded
by the uniform decisions of this court and by the practice of
the Federal Government from its organization. This carries
with it an exemption of those agencies and instruments from
the taxing power of the Federal Government."
And again (p. 332):
"We admit the proposition of the counsel that the revenue
must be municipal in its nature to entitle it to the exemption
claimed. Thus, if an individual should make the city of Baltimore his agent and trustee to receive funds, and to distribute
them in aid of science, literature, or the fine arts, or even for
the relief of the destitute and infirm, it is 4uite possible that
such revenues Would be subject to taxation. The corporation
would therein depart from its municipal character, and assume
the position of a privatb trustee. It would occupy a place
which an individual could occupy with equal propriety. It
would not in that action be an-auxiliary or servant of the State,
but of .the individual creating the trust. There is nothing of
a governmental character in suoh a position."

SOUTH CAROLINA v. UNITED STATES.
199 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

In Ambrosini v. United States, 187 U. S. 1, in which the
Federal war revenue tax act, providing for stamp taxes on
bonds, was held inapplicable to bonds required from licensees
under the dram shop act of Illinois, the court declared
(p. 8):
"The question is whether the bonds were taken in the exercise of a function strictly belonging to the State and city in
their ordinary governmental capacity, and we are of the
opinion that they. were, and that they were exempted as no
more taxable than the licenses."
These decisions, while not controlling the question before us,
indicate that the thought has been that the exemption of state
agencies and instrumentalities from National taxation is limited

to those which are of a strictly governmental character,- and
does not extend to those which are used by the State in the
carrying on of an ordinary private business.
In this connection may be noticed the well-established distinction between the duties of a public character cast upon
municipal corporations and those which relate to what may
be considered their private business, and the different responsibility resulting in case of negligence in respect to the
discharge of those duties. The Supreifie Court of Massachusetts, speaking by Mr. Justice Gray (afterwards an Associate
Justice of this court), in Oliver v. Worcester, 102 Massachusetts, 489, 499, 500, observed:
"The distinction is well established between the responsibilities of towns and cities for acts done in their public capacity,
in the discharge of duties imposed upon them by the legislature
for the public benefit, and for acts clone in what may be called
their private character, in the management of property or
rights voluntarily held by them for their own immediate profit
or advantage as a corporation, although inuring, of course,
ultimately to the benefit of the public;
"To render municipal corporations liable to private actions
for omission or neglect to perform a corporate ditty imposed by
ger ,.ral law on all towns and cities alike, and from the per-

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

199 U. S.

formance of which they derive no compensation or benefit in
their corporate capacity, an express statute is doubtless necessary.
"But this rule does not exempt towns and cities from the
liability to which other corporations are subject, for negligence
in managing or dealing with property or rights held by them
for their own advantage or emolument."
I In Lloyd v. Mayor &c. of New York, 5 N. Y. 369, 374, the
court said:
"The corporation of the city of New York possesses two
kinds of powers, one governmental and public, and, to the exclothed with sovereigntytent they are held and exercised, .is
they are held and exerextent
the
to
and
private,
other
the
are given and used for
former
The
cised, is a legal individual.
public purposes, the latter for private purposes. While in the
exercise of the former, the corporation is a municipal government, and while in the exercise of the latter, is a corporate,
legal individual."
See also Maximilian v. Mayor, 62 N. Y. 160, 164; Brown v.
Vinalhaven, 65 Maine, 402; Mead v. City of New Haven, '40
Connecticut, 72; City of Petersburg v. Applegarth's Administrator, 28 Gratt. 321, 343; Eastman v. Meredith, 36 N. I. 285;
Western Saving Fund Society v. City of Philadelphia,,31 Pa. St.
175. In this case it was held that a city supplying gas .to the
inhabitants acts as a private corporation, and is subject to the
same liabilities and disabilities. In the opinion the court declared (p. 183):
"Such contracts are not made by the municipal corporation,
by virtue of its powers of local sovereignty, but in its capacity
of a private corporation. The supply of gaslight is no more a
duty of sovereignty than the supply of water. Both these
objects may be accomplished through the agency of individuals
or private corporations, and in very many instances they are
accomplished by those means. If this power is granted to a
borough or a city, it is a special private franchise, made as well
for the private emolument and advantage of the city as for the

SOUTH CAROLINA v. UNITED STATES.
199 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

public'good. The whole investment is the private property of
the city, as much so as the lands and houses belonging to it.
Blending the two poyers in one grant, does not destroy the
clear and well-settled distinction, and the process of separation is not rendered impossible by the confusion. In separating them, regard must be had to the object of the legislature
in conferring them. If granted for public purposes exclusively,
they belong to the corporate body' in its public, political, or
municipal character. But if the grant was for purposes of
private advantage and emolument, though the public may
derive a common benefit therefrom, the corporation quoad hoc
is to be regarded as a private company. It stands on the
same footing as would any individual or body of persons, upon
whom the like special franchises had been conferred."
'See further a subsequent case between the same parties, in
the same volume (pp. 185, 189): Bailey v. The Mayor &c., 3
Hill, 531; 1 Dillon, Mun. Corp., 4th ed., sec. 66.
Now, if it be well established; as these authorities say, that
there is a clear distinction as respects responsibility for negligence between the powers granted to a corporation for governmental purposes and those in aid of private business, a like
distinction may be recognized when we are asked to limit the
full power of imposing excises granted to the National Government by an implied inability to impede or embarrass a State
in the discharge of its functions. It is reasonable to hold that
while the former may do nothing by taxation in any form to
prevent the full discharge by the latter of its governmental
functions, yet whenever a State engages in a business which
is of a private nature that business is not withdrawn from the
taxing power of the Nation.
For these reasons we think that the license taxes charged
by the Federal Government upon persons selling liquor is not
invalidated by the fact that they are the agents of the State
which has itself engaged in that business.
The judgment of the Court of Claims is
Affirmed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
WHITE, PECKHAM

and MCKENNA, JJ., dissenting.

MR. JUSTICE WHITE, with whom concur MR.
HAM and MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA," dissenting.

199 U. S.

JUSTICE PECK-

The delicacy of the question, the suggestion that, apart from
constitutional limitations, the ruling made is, from-an economic
point of view, a just one, and the long and painstaking consideration which the court has given the case causes me to be
reluctant to announce a dissent. This, however, is overborne
by the conviction that it is my duty to dissent and state my
reasons. And this because the decision now made, as it is by
me understood, overrules many cases, departs from a principle
which has been recognized from the beginning, and, under the
assumed necessity of protecting the taxing power of the Government of the United States, establishes a doctrine which in
its potentiality strips the States of their lawful authority. It
does more than this, since the theory upon which the case is
decided also endows the States with a like power to divest the
Government of the United States of its lawful attributes. In
other words, by the ruling and the reasoning sustaining it, the
ancient landmarks are obliterated and the distinct powers belonging to both the National and state Governments are reciprocally placed the one at the mercy of the other, so as to
give to each the potency of destroying the other.
The case is this: South Caroli'na has adopted a law by which
no liquor is allowed to be broughU into the State for sale or to
be sold therein, except such liquor as may be bought by a board
of officers appointed by state authority, which liquor is sold
by state agents appointed for that purpose under regulations
prescribed by the statute. The question is, whether these
agents of the State, for the act of selling liquor belonging to the
State, as agents of the State, under the authority of the State,
can be subjected to a license for carrying on the liquor business, levied by the internal revenue laws of the United States.
That the State, under its police authority, had.t the right to
absolutely prohibit the sale of liqUor, or to subject it to such
regulations as it deemed proper, is elementary. So far-reaching

SOUTH CAROLINA v. UNITED STATES.
199 U. S.

WHITE, PECKHAM

and

McKENNA,

JJ., dissenting.

is that authority that a State may direct the destruction of
liquor held contrary to law, without paying the value thereof,
and without thereby violating the constitutional safeguards
as to the taking of property. Mugler v. Kansas, 123 U. S.623.
True, by the operation of the commerce clause of the Constitution, the absolute authority of the State does not extend
to prohibiting the sale in original packages of liquor brought in
from other States. Leisy v. Hardin, 135 U. S.100. But that
limitation no longer applies, since Congress has, by express
legislation, permitted the power of the States to attach to all
liquor shipped into one State from another, at once on its arrival, before sale in the original packages, as fully as if it had
been manufactured within the State. And the validity of the
statute referred to has been upheld by the court in reiterated
rulings. In re Rahrer, 140 U. S.545, 562; Rhodes v. Iowa, 170
U. S.412; Vance v. W. A. Vandercook Co. No. 1, 170 U. S.
438; American Express Co. v. Iowa, 196 U, S.133; Adams Express Co. v. Iowa, 196 U. S. 147; Pabst Brewing Co. v. Crenshaw, 198 U. S. 17. Indeed, one of these cases-the Vandercook case-involved the question whether the act of South
Carolina, providing for the purchase and sale of liquor belonging to the State, as above stated, was repugnant to the Constitution of the United States, and the validity of the act in
this particular was upheld by the court, because of the police
power of the State and bevause of the provisions of the act of
Congress limiting the effect of the interstate commerce clause
as to liquor as already mentioned.
It -is not necessary to trace the want of authority of the
United States to impose a license exaction on the agents of the
State to an express provision of the Constitution, since 'the
court has constantly held that the absence of authority in the
Government of the United States to tax or burden the agenciec
or instrumentalities of a state' government, and the like want
of authority on the part of the States to tax the agencies or
instrumentalitius of the National Government, results from
the dual system of government which the Constitution created,
VOL. cxcIX-30

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
WHITE, PECKHAM

and

ACKENNA,

JJ., dissenting.

199 U. S.

and that the continuance in force of such a prohibition is absolutely essential to the preservation of both governments.
It. would be superfluous to review in detail the many cases
decided on the subject, but in the endeavor to bring the settled
doctrine clearly to the mind, I refer to the most salient of the
cases.
In McCulloch v. Maryland (1819), 4 Wheat. 316, and Osborn
v. Bank of the United States (1824), 9 Wheat. 738, it was held
that a State could not impose a tax on the operations of the
Bank of the United States or any of its branches. In Weston
v. City Council of Charleston (1829), 2 Pet 449, Bank of Commerce v. New York (1862), 2 Black, 620, Bank Tax Case (1865),
2 Wall. 200, and Banks v. Mayo- (1869), 7 Wall. 16, it was
decided that a State was without power to tax stock or bonds
issued by the United States for loans made to it, when held by
an individual or by a corporation. In Dobbins v. Commissioners of Erie County (1842), 16 Pet. 435, it was decided that
a State might not tax the compensation of an officer of the
United States. And, in Van Brocklin v. Tennessee (1886),
117 U. S. 151, and cases cited on pages 167 et seq., it was held
that a State might not impose a tax on any property of the
United States, including real estate of which the United States
had become the owner as the result of a sale to enforce the payment of direct taxes previously levied by the United States.
Conversely, the adjudications concerning the want of power
in the United States to tax the States are of a like scope. In
The Collector v. Day (1870), 11 Wall. 113, 127, it was decided
that Congress could not impose a tax upon the salary 'of a
judicial officer of a State. In United States v. Railroad Co.
(1872), 17 Wall. 322, it was held that the United States might
not impose a tax upon the property and revenues of a municipal corporation. Two members of the court dissented (p. 334),
on the ground "that the private property owned by a municipal corporation, and held merely as private property in a
proprietary right, and used merely in a commercial sense for
the income, gains, and profits," was "taxable just the same as

SOUTH CAROLINA v. UNITED STATES.
199 U. S.

WHITE, PECKHAM

and MCKENNA, JJ., dissenting.

property owned by an individual, or any other corporation."
In Van Brocklin v. Tennessee, supra, where, as we have seen,
it was held that the State of Tennessee could not tax real
property within its borders while held by the United States
as proprietor, in reviewing the ruling made in United States
v. Railroad Co., the court said (p. 178):
"This court, in United States v. Railroad Co., 17 Wall. 322,
held that a municipal corporation within a State could not be
taxed by the United States on the dividends or interest of
stock or bonds held by it in a railroad or canal company, because the municipal corporation was a representative of the
State, created by the State to exercise a limited portion of its
powers of government, and therefore its revenues, like these
of the State itself, were not taxable by the United States.
The revenues thus adjudged to be exempt from Federal taxation were not themselves appropriated to any specific public
use, nor derived from property held by the State or by the
municipal corporation for any specific public use, but were
part of the general income of that corporation, held for the
public use in no other sense than all p-operty and income,
belonging to it in its municipal character, must be so held.
of a
The reasons for exempting all the property and income
State, or of a municipal corporation, which is a political division of the State, from Federal taxation, equally require the
exemption of all the property and indome of the National
Government from state taxation."
In Mercantile Bank v. New York (1887), 121 U. S. 138, 162,
it was decided that the United States might not tax bonds
issued by a State or one of its municipal bodies under its authority and held by private corporations. In Pollock v. Farmers' Loan and Trust Company-the income tax case-(1894),
157 U. S.429, although much difference of opinion was manifested in the court as to some of the questions involved, as to
one, that is, the lack of authority in the United States to include in the amount of income subject to taxation by the
United States money derived from interest on municipal bonds,

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
WHITE, PECKHAM

the court was unanimous.

and

MCKENNA,

JJ., dissenting.

199 U. S.

The opinion, in reviewing the sub-

ject and citing approvingly'The Collector v. Day, United States
v. Railroad Co., the Van Brocklin case and the Mercantile Bank
case, said (p. 584):
"As the States cannot tax the powers, the operations, or
the,,property of the United States, nor the means which they
employ to carry their powers into execution, so it has been
held that the United States have no power under the Constitution to tax either the instrumentalities or the property of a
State."
And, lastly, in Ambrosini v. United States (1902), 187 U. S.
1, it was held that Congress could not impose a stamp tax upon
a bond which the state law required to be given as a prerequisite to the right to sell liquor.
Is the ruling now made reconcilable with the cases just referred to? In other words, is it consistent with the theory of
the Constitution as interpreted from the beginning? In order
to give the reasons which convince me that it is not, let me
review the-contentions which are relied upon to support the
ruling.
1. It is urged that as the State of South Carolina derives
revenue from the sale, by the agents of the State, of the liquor
belonging to the State, therefore the United States has also the
right to derive a revenue from ,that source. If by this contention it is intended to suggest that the South Carolina law
Was not passed in the exercise of the police power of that State,
and must be treated as a revenue law from the mere fact that
some revenue results from the operation of the law, the unsoundness of the proposition is demonstrated. by the previous
cases. In Vandercooc Co., No. 1, supra, that identical proposition was urged, and was decided to be without merit; and the
same doctrine was reiterated in the cases of American Express
Company v. Iowa, 196 U. S. 133; Adams Express Co. v. Iowa,
196 U. S. 147, and Pabst Brewing Co. v. Crenshaw, 198 U. S.
17. If the contention be that wherever, by the exertion of
state power upon persons or things, a revenue is produced,

SOUTH CAROLINA v. UNITED STATES.
199 U. S.

WHITE, PECKHAM and McKENNA,

469

JJ., dissenting.

there must be a corresponding right on the part of the Government of the United States to reap revenue by burdening
the like person or thing, even although in so doing a state
agency or instrumentality is taxed, the unsoundness of the
proposition and its conflict with the previous cases becomes
yet more apparent. One of the foundations upon which the
doctrine rests, denying the power of the governments, State
or National, to burden the instrumentalities or agencies of
each other, is that if such burdening be permitted it might
result in crippling the revenues of the Government, upon whose
agency or instrumentality the tax was placed.. Was. this not
the ground upon which the earlier cases were placed, and was
it not specifically declared to be the foundation of the ruling
made in the income tax case-Pollock v. The Farmers'
Loan & Trust Co., supra? The contention that because one
government may have derived income from the exertion
of its authority, therefore the other government has a right
to do likewise, even if the agencies of the other government
be thereby taxed, reduces itself to this: That the power to
burden arises from the very condition which prevents the
power from existing. If pushed to its logical conclusion, the
far-reaching result of the proposition that wherever revenue
is derived from an act by one government, therefore the other
may burden the agent or instrumentality of the other may be
readily illustrated. Take the National Government." If in
the exercise of its ample authority to establish national banks
a tax is imposed on such banks and a revenue derived, do the
States thereby become entitled, without the consent of Congress, to tax banks? Take the Post Office Department. If
by the carrying of the mails revenue is derived by the Government of the United States, are the States from that fact entitled to tax the instrumentalities employed by the Post Office
Department? Take the ocean transport service of the United
States. If under given circumstances a charge is made for
transportation, and hence a revenue is earned, may the States
cripple that service by taxation? It is no answer to the dem-

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
WHITE, PECKHAM

and MCKENNA, JJ., dissenting.

199 U. S.

onstration which results from these illustrations to say that
the cases concern purely governmental functions of the United
States, and, therefore, the States cannot tax the exercise of
such functions. May I ask are these functions on the part of
the United States any more governmental than is the power
of the government of South Carolina to absolutely control at
will the liquor traffic in that State?
2. It is implied that necessity demands the recognition of
the right of the Government of the United States to tax the
state agencies in question because the principle, by which
alone such power on the part of the United States can be
denied, will inevitably result in giving the States authority
to destroy the Government of the United States by adopting
peculiar methods of dealing with various classes of persons or
property. Thus, it is said, the state governments may acquire all farms within their borders and thus deprive the
United States of its power to impose a direct tax on land.
That a State may import, property from foreign countries and
be exempt from import duty and undersell those who pay
duty and render the collection of any import tax from others
by the United States impossible. But these extreme illustrations amount simply to saying that it ispossible for the
imagination to foreshadow conditions whiclh, did they arise,
would impair the government created by the Constitution,
and because such conjectures may be indulged in, the limitations created by the Constitution for the purpose of preserving
both the state and National Governments are to be disregarded. In other words, that the government createa by the
Constitution must now be destroyed, because it is possible to
suggest conditions which, if they arise, would in the future
produce a like result. But the weakness of the illustrations
as applied to this case is apparent. They have no relation
to this case, since it is not denied that as to liquor the State
has absolute power, and may prohibit the sale of all liquor,
and thus prevent the' United States from deriving revenue
from that source. Again, therefore, when the true relation

SOUTH CAROLINA v. UNITED STATES.
199 U. S.

WHITE, PECKHAM and McKENA, JJ., dissenting.

of the argument to the case in hand is seei, it reduces itself
to a complete contradiction, viz., a State may by prohibition
prevent the United States from reaping revenue from the liquor
traffic, but any other state regulation by which such result is
accomplished may be prevented by the United States, because
thereby the State has done indirectly only that which the
State had the lawful power directly to do.
3. It is urged that the liquor in this case was owned by
South Carolina, and in selling it the State was merely acting
as a proprietor, and therefore the tax on the state agents is
lawfijl. But here again the argument overlooks the absolute
power possessed by the State concerning the liquor traffic, and
the consequent right of the State in the exercise of its governmental functions to adopt such methods and instrumentalities as might be deemed best for the control of the traffic.
Besides, the proposition is directly repugnant to the previous
decisions of this court. Can anything be plainer than that
the contention is directly antagonistic to the ruling made in
United States v. Railroad Co., supra, which ruling was expressly approved in the subsequent cases, especially in the
income tax case? Was not the United States the proprietor
of the land in Tennessee, which it was held in the Van Brocklin
case the State of Tennessee had no power to tax? Conceding,
for the sake of argument only, that the doctrine announced in
the previous cases should be qualified, certainly such qualification would be wholly unreasonable if it did not propose to
take in view -the absolute and paramount nature of the gov.
ernmental function under which the property or agency which
it was proposed to tax was held or exercised. Reference is
made to cases in state courts concerning the liability of municipal corporations to suits for negligence. I cannot see their
appositeness to the issue here involved. Besides, the doctrine
expounded in the line of cases referred to, if doctrine can be
deduced from the confusion And contradiction which exists
among the cases, has never received the approval of this court.
On the contrary, the rulings of this court, point the other way.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
WHITE, PECKHAM

and

McKENNA,

JJ., dissenting.

199 U. S.

Barnes v. District of Columbia, 91 U. S. 540; Workman v. New
York, 179 U. S. 552, 574. But grant that the rule applied by
some state courts, in order to determine when a municipal'
corporation may be sued for a negligent act, has relation to
this case, my mind sees no possibility of holding that the State
of South Carolina, when by the law in question it provided
for -the purchase and sale of liquor by its own agents, was not
exercising a purely governmental function, in view of 'the
absolute power of that State over that subject, and, moreover,
in view of the act of Congress making such power complete
and -efficacious, even as to original packages of liquor before
sale.
4. It is not, of course, by me denied that however varying
may be the conditions to which the Constitution is applied,
that instrument means to-day what it did at the time of its
adoption; but I cannot give my assent to the doctrine that a
limitation, which it has been decided over and over again
arises from the very nature of the Constitution, is not to be
enforced in a given condition to which the Constitution applies,
because it does not appear that the framers could have contemplated that such conditions might be evolved in the course
of the development of our constitutional institutions. To me
it seems that no proposition could be more absolutely dl structive of constitutional government.
Being of opinion that the State of South Carolina had complete and absolute power over the liquor traffic, and could
exert, in dealing with that subject, such methods and instrumentalities as were deemed best, and that the United States
was without authority to tax the agencies which the State
called into being for the purpose of dealing with the liquor
traffic, I, therefore, dissent, and am authorized to say that
MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM and MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA concur.

