TAMPA WATER WORKS v. TAMPA.
Opinion of the Court.

199 U. S.

TAMPA WATER WORKS COMPANY v. TAMPA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF FLORIDA.
No. 29.

Argued October 27, 1905.-Decided November 13, 1905.

The constitution of Florida has a clause to the effect that the legislature
is invested with full powers to prevent unjust discrimination and excessive charges by persons and corporations engaged as common carriers
and performing other public services of a public nature, and that it shall
provide for enforcing such laws. In pursuance of this clause a law was
passed empowering cities to prescribe by ordinance maximum reasonable
chargea for water, provided that the act should not impair the. validity
of any valid contract, or be held to validate any contract theretofore
made. After the constitution but before the act the city of Tampa
had made a contract with a water company, giving the water company
the right to charge certain rates. After the act it passed an ordinance
fixing lower rates, not, however, alleged to be unreasonable. The Supreme Court of Florida sustained the ordinance, reading the statute as
giving the power to fix reasonable rates, when it was possible, without
impairing the obligation of contracts, and the constitution as meaning
that the legislatire was to have an inalienable power to make such laws.
Held that this interpretation was sufficiently plausible to be followed.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. W. A. Carter, with whom Mr. S. M. Sparkman was on
the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Hugh C. Macfarlane and Mr. James F. Glen for defendant in error.
MR.

JUSTICE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the court,

This case comes here by writ of error to a decree dismissing
the bill of the plaintiff in error upon demurrer. 34 Southern
Rep. 631; 36 Southern Rep. 174. The bill alleges a contract between the plaintiff water company and the city of
Tampa, by which the former was to erect water works and to
VOL. OxcIx-1

6

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

199 U. S.

have the right to charge certain rates for the use of its water
for thirty years, with various other terms not necessary to
mention. By a subsequent ordinance the city fixed lower
rates as the highest to be charged by any person or corporation
furnishing water to the city or its inhabitants, and imposed
a penalty on violation of this ordinance or refusal to furnish
water in compliance with its terms. The bill sets up that this
ordinance impairs the obligation of the-plaintiff's contract and
takes its property without due process of law, contrary to the
Constitution of the United States. The city justified under
section 30, article XVI, of the state constitution in force when
the contract was made, and under an act approved May 31,
1901, chapter 5070, after the date of the contract. The Supreme Court of the State held the justification sufficient and
dismissed the bill.
We assume for the purpose of decision that the contract
made was within the powers of the city, subject to whatever
qualification or inherent weakness the constitution created or
imposed., We assume also that the case shows more than a
mere breach of contract by the city if its justification fails,
and pass at once to the merits of the justification.
The clause of the state constitution is as follows: "The
legislature is invested with full power to pass laws for the
correction of abuses and to prevent unjust discrimination and
excessive charges by persons and corporations engaged as
common carriers in transporting persons and property, or
performing other services of a public nature, and shall provide
for enforcing such laws by adequate penalfies or forfeitures."
In pursuance of this clause in the constitution the legislature
passed the act referred to above. By this act the corporate
authorities of cities, towns and villages were empowered to
prescribe by ordinance maximum charges for water. "Such
charges to be just and reasonable; Provided, that this act shall
not be so construed as to impair the validity of any valid contract heretofore entered into between any city, town or village
and any person, firm or corporation for the supply of water to

TAMPA WATER WORKS v. TAMPA.
199 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

such city, town or village or its inhabitants.

But this act shall

not be held to validate any contract heretofore made." This
act was construed by the Supreme Court of Florida, as we
understand it, to mean that cities might establish reasonable
maxima in any case whee they could do so without impairing
the obligation of contracts. Therefore the act was held to
authorize the ordinance complained of unless the ordinance
was open to constitutional objection. This construction of
the statute is a very slight extension of the direct meaning of the
words used, and seems to us reasonable even if a somewhat
different one could be conceived. Of course it removes any
question of constitutionality from the statute, and therefore
there seems to be no ground for reviewing the decision upon
that point Central Land Co. v. Laidley, 159 U, S. 103; Weber
v. Rogan, 188 U. S. 10.
We turn to the construction of the constitution of the State.
There was some argument that the clause was not self-executing.
But so far as it expressed a power of the legislature, of course,
as soon as the constitution went into effect, that power existed
at once, and contracts afterwards were made subject to the
possibility of its exercise, as it was exercised by the subsequent statute. Spring Valley Water Works v. Schottler, 110
U. S.347, 355; Bienville Water Supply Co. v. Mobile, 186 U. S.
212. The only question then is, how far the clause of the
constitution goes. When the contract was made there had
been no judicial construction of the clause which withdrew the
contract from its operation, nor has there been since, so far as
we are aware. There is ro ground for the application of the
doctrine of Muhlker v. New York & Harlem R. R., 197 U. S.
544, or Gelpcke v. Dubuque, 1 Wall. 175. In such circumstances, although, we construe the constitution for ourselves
and determine the existence or non-existence of the contract
set up and whether its obligation has been impaired by the
state enactment, Douglas v. Kentucky, 168 U. S. 488, 502,
"the Federal Courts will lean towards an agreement of views
with the state courts if the question seems to them balanced

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.1
Opinion of the Court.

199 U. S.

with doubt," a principle reinforced by the later cases. Burgess
v. Seligman, 107 U. S. 20, 34; Wilson v. Standefer, 184 U. S.
399, 412; Bienville Water Supply Co. v. Mobile, 186 U. S. 212,
220; Chicago Theological Seminary v. Illinois, 188 U. S. 662,
674, 675, 677.
It cannot be said that the interpretation adopted is not a
possible one. Water companies are corporations performing
services of a public nature quite as much as common carriers,
and, therefore, are within the words of the clause, which is not
confined to common carriers. A natural method of preventing
excessive charges is the passage by the cities or towns, within
which the services are performed, of ordinances establishing
reasonable rates and punishing non-compliance. Therefore the
power to prevent excessive charges given to the legislature
properly was exercised by a law granting cities authority to
pass ordinances of the kind supposed.
So much probably would be admitted, but it is said that the
clause is merely declaratory of powers which the legislature
would have had without it, and Which with or without it the
legislature could cut down by contract. The argument is not
without force, but it did not prevail in this case and we are not
prepared to overrule the Florida courts in their interpretation
of their own laws. It-is entirely possible to read the words
as conferring a power which by their very form they were meant
to make inalienable. No doubt some sort of a legislature
would exist, constitution or no constitution, and presumably
would have power to regulate rates charged by companies
performing public services or to restrict that power by a constitutionally binding contract. But the actual legislature derives its being, its form as a Senate and House of Representatives and its powers, from the instrument in force. When the
constitution says that the legislature "is invested" with a
certain power it invests it with that power and does so none
the less that in the absence of those words a more or less
similar power would be implied by more general expressions
in the same inst! ument. It says that the power shall be "full

TAMPA WATER WORKS v. TAMPA.
199 U. S.

BROWN and PECKHAM, JJ., dissenting.

power," and the adjective may be read as meaning a ,power
which cannot be cut down. When it goes on to require that
the legislature "shall" provide for enforcing the laws which
it is expected to pass for the correction of abuses and the
prevention of excessive charges the argument is strengthened
that it means to impose a duty which the legislature is not at
liberty to give up. Such was the opinion of the Supreme
Court of Florida, and we have" yielded to the 'judgment of the
state court upon more doubtful questions than this.
The case stands on the single ground of contract. There
is no allegation that the rates fixed by the new ordinances are
unreasonable or that their effect will be to destroy or considerably impair the value of the plaintiff's property. Although the Fourteenth Amendment is invoked, no case is
made out under it on any other ground than that the obligation of a binding contract is impaired. The single question
is whether the city of Tampa is bound for thirty years from
the date of its agreement to permit certain specified rates to
be charged, even if they have ceased to be reasonable. We
are not prepared to say that the Supreme Court of Florida
was wrong in deciding that it is not bound under the Florida
constitution and laws. The effect of a former decree dismissing
a bill brought by the city, which is set up in this bill, cannot be
reargued here.
Decree affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BROWN, with whom was MR. JUSTICE PECKdissenting.

HAM,

In September, 1887, the Water Works Company made a
contract with the city for the establishment of water works,
in which it was agreed that the contract should continue in
force for thirty years from the time the works were complkted
and ready for duty, and that the owners might charge and
collect quarterly in advance, for water furnished to private
consumers, prices not to exceed certain maximum rates fixed
by the contract.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
BROWN and PECKHAM, JJ., dissenting.

199 U. S.

At this time there was in force the following constitutional
provision in Florida:
"The legislature is invested with full power to pass laws for
the correction of abuses and to prevent unjust discrimination
and excessive charges by persons and corporations engaged as
common carriers in transporting persons and property, or performing other services of a public nature, and shall provide for
enforcing such laws by adequate penalties or forfeitures."
By an act of the legislature passed May 31' 1901 (chap. 5070),
the corporate authorities of any city were empowered to prescribe by ordinance maximum rates and charges for the supply
of water, such charges to be just and reasonable; provided,
"that this act shall not be so construed as to impair the validity
of any valid contract heretofore entered into . . . for
the supply of water to such city," ' but this act shall not be
held to validate any contract heretofore made."
On December 20, 1901, the city council of Tampa passed
the ordinance complained of, No. 274, which provided that
"it shall be unlawful for any individual, company or corporation furnishing water to the city of Tampa, or its inhabitants,
to charge any higher rates for water than those hereinafter
specified." The ordinance made a large reduction in the rates
fixed by the original ordinance or contract, and thereby, as it
is alleged, impaired its obligation.
The constitutional provision was evidently not self-executing,
though it vestcd full power in the legislatureto prevent excessive
charges for the performance of public services. The legislature
did not see fit to exercise this power to its full extent. But in
authorizing corporate authorities in any State, etc., to fix rates,
provided that the act should not be so construed as to impair
the validity of any valid contract. This it had the right to do.
It was not bound to exercise the whole power vested in it by
the constitution, but might grant so much of such power to
the corporate authorities as it deemed best for the public interests. This we have repeatedly held with respect to parceling out the power vosted in Congress by the Constitution.

CHESAPEAKE BEACH RY. v. WASHINGTON R. R. 247
199 U. S.

Syllabus.

McIntire v. Wood, 7 Cranch, 504; Kendall v. United States, 12
Pet. 524, 616; Cary v. Curtis, 3 How. 236, 245.
It follows that if the ordinance of 1901 impaired the original
contract between the water works and the city, it exceeded
its powers under the act of the legislature.
In its opinion the Supreme Court of Florida assumed, without deciding, that "the powers granted to the city were sufficient to authorize it to contract with the Water Company for
a public and private supply of water," and were also sufficient
to enable the city to insert clauses fixing the rates, and obligating the city to pay these rates for water used by it during
the entire contract period, and that the same powers existed
of fixing the rates for water supply to individuals.
Now, as the constitution only delegated to the legislature
the power to authorize the corporate authorities to reduce
rates, and the legislature delegated that power only in cases
where it did not impair the validity of any contract, it seems
to me clear that the city council of Tampa exceeded its authority in reducing rates protected by a contract, and must
be held to have impaired its obligation.

CHESAPEAKE BEACH RAILWAY COMPANY v. WASHINGTON, POTOMAC AND CHESAPEAKE RAILROAD
COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
No. 35.

Argued October 31, November 1, 1005.-Decided November 13, 1905.

In an action of ejectment in which the plaintiff relied upon a line of conveyances not going back to the original source of title coupled with
possession on the part of a grantor, held, on a discussion of the evidence
that the deeds sufficiently identified the land and that the plaintiff was
'entitled to go to the jury on the question of possession.
A deed by the trustee of a mortgage reciting a foreclosure decree is not
limited in its operation to the authority conferred by the decree but passes
the title of the trustee to the land which it purports to convey.

