OCTOBEI

TERM, 1905.

Statement of the Case.

199 U. S.

Middle District of Alabama. Sweeney v. Carter Oil Company,
ante, p. 252.
And this being so, the case was improvidently removed and
should have been remanded.
As the removal was made on the application of the Surety
Company, that company must pay the costs of this court and
of the Circuit Court.
Writ of error dismissed; certiorari granted, record on writ of
error to stand as return to certiorari;judgment reversed and
cause remanded to Circuit Court with a direction to remand
to the state court; costs of this court and of thie Circuit Court
to be paid by the Fidelity and Deposit Company.

FRENCH v. TAYLOR.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF WASHINGTON.
No. 57.

Argued November 8, 1905.-Decided November 27, 1905.

Where the validity of a state revenue statute itself is not drawn in question, but plaintiff in error contends that he was denied due process of
law because state officers acting thereunder did not fully comply with
the statute, only questions of local law and fact are involved and the
determination of the state court is not reviewable on writ of error by
this court.
It is too late to raise Federal questions on petition for rehearing to the
highest court of the State unless the petition is entertained and the point
passed on.

Tuis was a suit to quiet title to certain real estate, brought
in the Superior Court of King County, Washington, by Sarah
Woodward and Sarah Woodward as executrix of Henry S.
W\oodward, against 11. C. Taylor and others. Sarah Woodward resigned her letters as executrix and John H. McGraw
was appointed administrator with the will annexed, and there-

upon was made a co-plaintiff.

The Superior Court entered

FRENCH v. TAYLOR.
199 U. S.

Counsel for Parties.

a decree of dismissal and plaintiffs took the cause by appeal
to the Supreme Court of Washington, which affirmed the judgment. 33 Washington, 1. A petition for rehearing was filed
and denied. 33 Washington, 11. Henry French was substituted as appellant and he brought this writ of error.
The case is stated by the Supreme Court thus:
"Several causes of action are alleged in the complaint.
Each cause is to set aside a separate deed to the property in
question. It is necessary to notice only the first cause alleged.
For some time prior to. the year 1891, Sarah Woodward was
a non-resident of the State of Washington, and is still such
non-resident. She was the owner of lot 8, in block 11, Maynard's plat of the city of Seattle. This property was assessed
for general, state, and county taxes for the year 1891 in the
name of C. Winehill. It does not appear that the taxing
officers knew, when the assessment was made, that the property
belonged to Mrs. Woodward. Subsequently the taxes for that
year became delinquent, and the property was sold in 1894,
under the provisions of the revenue act of 1893. The county
of King became the purchaser. Subsequently the county
transferred the certificate of sale to the respondents, who
thereafter obtained a tax deed. At the trial of the cause the
lower court held that this tax deed conveyed a valid title, and
dismissed the action. The points relied upon by appellant
to secure a reversal are that the property was not assessed in
the name of the owner, that no notice of the sale, or of the
expiration of the time of redemption, or of the application
for a deed, was given to. the owner, and that, therefore, the
respondents acquired no title to the land by virtue of the sale
and tax deed."
Mr. Twyman 0. Abbott for plaintiff in error:
Air. Richard Saxe Jones, with whom Air. Jefferson Chandler
and Mr. William H. Brinker were on the brief, for defendants
in error;

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

199 U. S.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER, after making the foregoing
statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
We understand it to be conceded, as it must be, that no
Federal question was raised on the record prior to judgment
unless by the eleventh clause of paragraph V of the first cause
of action set forth in the complaint. The paragraph asserted
in substance the invalidity of the tax deed in that the names
of the real owners of the property were not given and the
name of a person was given as owner who was not such; that
the return of the assessor was insufficient; that the certificate
of the county auditor was not attached to each book containing the tax list; that the delivery of the assessment rolls to
the county treasurer was not strictly in compliance with law;
that the names of the real owners were not given in the "Tax
Judgment Sales, Redemption, and Forfeiture Record;" that
the certificate of purchase was insufficient; that personal notice
of the application for the tax deed was not given; that the
affidavit of notice was insufficient; that Taylor had not paid
all the previous taxes; that the signature to the tax deed was
not sufficient. Copies of certificates, affidavits, etc., were set
out with these specifications.
Then followed subdivision eleven: "That all the proceedings in this paragraph hereinbefore enumerated, was and were
in violation of Article V, and the first section of Article XIV
of the amendments to the Constitution of the United States,
and of section eleven of article I of the constitution of the
State of Washington, in this: That they constituted an attempt
to deprive plaintiffs of their property without due process of
law."
The second class of cases in which the judgments and decrees
of state courts may be reexamined here under ยง 709, Rev. Stat.,
consists of those "where is drawn in question the validity of a
statute of, or an authority exercised under any State, on the
4round of their being repugnant to the Constitution, treaties,
)rlaws of the United States, and the decision is in favor of

FRENCH v. TAYLOR.
199 U. 8.

Opinion of the Court.

their validity." Clause eleven, thrown into paragraph V, does
not allege that the tax acts of the State of Washington for
1889, -1890, 1891 or 1893 are in themselves in conflict with the
Constitution of the United States. Their validity was not
drawn in question. Nor was the validity of an authority
exercised under the State of Washington, for the power to
hear and determine cases, is not the kind of authority referred
to. Bethell v. Demaret, 10 Wall. 537. It is certain acts of
county officers and of defendants in error that are attacked
by the clause as unconstitutional.
Indeed, counsel for plaintiff in error says in his brief that
he does not contend "that the act itself is not sufficient to give
due process," but he insists "that the manner of observance
of that act is want of due process;" in other words, that the
statutes had not been complied. with. But the state Supreme
Court held that the acts provided for taxation in rem; that
notice was given as required; that giving the name of the owner
was not essential to the validity of the assessment, and that
the county officers and defendants in error had fully complied
with the laws. So that subdivision eleven, in attacking the
proceedings, only objects to the determination of questions of
local law or of fact, not in themselves reviewable here. Castillo
v. McConnico, 168 U. S. 674, 683; Leigh v. Green, 193 U. S. 79.
In Castillo v. McConnico, in which it was held that it Was
not the province of the court to interfere with the policy of the
revenue laws of the State, nor with the interpretation given
to them by their courts, and that an assessment could not be
regarded as not constituting due process of law within the
Fourteenth Amendment because of error as to the name of
the owner, if the state law might have dispensed with any
requirement of mention of the' name, Mr. Justice White said:
"The vice which underlies the entire argument of the plaintiff in error arises from a failure to distinguish between the
essentials of due process of law under the Fourteenth Amendment, and matters which may or may not be essential under
the terms of. xstate assessing or taxing law. The two are

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion'of the Court.

199 U. S.

neither corelative or coterminous. The first, due process of
law, must be found in the state statute, and cannot be departed from without violating the Constitution of the United
States. The other depends on the lawmaking power of the
State, and as it is solely the result of such authority may vary
or change as the legislative will of the State sees fit to ordain.
It follows that, to determine the existence of the one, due
process of law, is the final province of this court, whilst the
ascertainment of the other, that is, what is merely essential
under the state statute, is a state question within the final
jurisdiction of courts of last resort of the several States. When,
then, a state court decides that a particular formality was or
was not essential under the state statute, such decision presents no Federal question, providing always that the statute
as thus construed does not violate the Constitution of the
United States by depriving of property without due process
of law. This paramount requirement being fulfilled, as to
other matters the state interpretation of its own law is controlling and decisive."
In Leigh v. Green, it was held that a statute providing for
taxation in remn was constitutional; that summary methods of
seizure and sale could be had; that the court, having jurisdiction over the res, might proceed to adjudicate the right to the
property; that the same could be sold and that a tax deed
issued thereunder would be valid; and that such proceedings
did not abridge the protection guaranteed by the Constitution against the taking of property without due process of law.
And this being so, it cannot be successfully contended that
the right to due process of law under the Fourteenth Amendment was specially set up or claimed by this elevunth clause,
and denied by the state Supreme Court.
It is said thau Federal questions were raised on a petition
for rehearing, but this is denied, and the petition is not in the
record. But if it were true, the suggestion came too late,
though if the Supreme Court had considered and decided such
alleged Federal questions, we could take jurisdiction, but the

DONOVAN
199 U. S.

v. PENNSYLVANIA COMPANY.
Syllabus.

court did not do so. So as to the petition for writ of error
from this court, or the assignments of error here. They form
no part of the record on which it is to be ascertained whether
the state court decided a Federal question.
We are of opinion that no Federal question was raised at
the proper time and in the proper way, and, moreover, that
no Federal question was involved or decided.
Writ of error dismissed.

DONOVAN v. PENNSYLVANIA COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SEVENTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 5.

Argued January 5, 1905.-Decided November 27, 1905.

Although its functions are public, a railroad company holds the legal title
to the property employed in the discharge of its duties, and while it
must under all circumstances do everything reasonably necessary for
the accommodation of passengers and shippers, it may use its property
to the best advantage of the public and itself, and for that end may make
reasonable rules and regulations for the use of its property consistent
with the purposes for which it is created and not inconsistent with legally
established regulations. When not unnecessary, unreasonable or arbitrary a railroad may make arrangements with, including the granting
of special privileges to, a single concern to supply passengers arriving at
its terminals with hacks and cabs, and it is not bound, at least in the
absence of valid state legislation requiring it to do so, to accord similar
privileges to other pfrsons, even though they be licensed hackmen. Such
an exclusive arrangement is not a monopoly in the odious sense of the
word, nor does it inv6lve an improper use by a railroad company of its
property.
Public sidewalks and streets are for use by all on equal terms for proper
purposes subject to valid regulations prescribed by the constituted authorities.
Where there is a continuing trespass by a number of parties, and a suit of
law could only determine a particular controversy at a particular time,
a court of equity may meet such an unusual emergency and by a comprehensive decree determine finally the controversy between the parties,

