OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Syllabus.

199 U. S.

The business of fire insurance is of such a peculiar character,
so intimately connected with the prosperity of the whole comiunity, and so vital to the security of property owners, that
it is competent for the State to forbid combinations and agreements among fire insurance companies doing business within
its limits, in reference to rates, agents' commissions and the
manner of transacting their business. If, in the judgment of
the State, the people who desire insurance upon their property
are put at a disadvantage when confronted by a combination
or agreement among insurance companies, I do not perceive
any sound reason why, preserving the individual right of contracting, it may not forbid such combinations and agreements,
and thereby enable the insured and insurer to meet on terms
of equality. Surely, the State could enact such a regulation
with reference to companies organized under its own -lawss.
If that be so, it cannot be that such a regulation may not be
made applicable to foreign insurance companies doing business in the State only by its consent.

UNITED STATES ,. UTAH, NEVADA AND CALIFORNIA
STAGE COMPANY.
UTAH, NEVADA AND CALIFORNIA STAGE COMPANY
v. UNITED STATES.
APPEALS FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
Nos. 51 and 52.

Submitted November 8, 1905.-Decided November 27, 1905.

In construing a contract for mail service in New York City, held that:
The new and additional mail messenger or transfer service which the contractor could be required to perform under authority of the Postmaster
Generalwithout additional compensation did not include a vast amount
of additional work necessitated by the opening of a new post office not
contemplated by either of the parties when, the contract was made.
The same principles of right and justice which prevail between individuals
should control the construction and carrying out of contracts between
the Government and individuals,

UNITED STATES v. STAGE COMPANY.
199 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

The contractor-had a right to presume the Government knew how many
stations were to be served; and, where the proposals positively specified
that only two elevated railroad stations were to be served, the contractor was entitled to extra compensation for serving four stations notwithstanding the proposal required the bidders to inform themselves as to
facts and stated that additional compensation would not be allowed
for mistakes.
The contractor was not entitled to extra compensation for "foot service,"
carrying mails up and down steps at elevated railroad stations, as delivery at the foot of the steps would have been insufficient.
THIS is an appeal and cross-appeal from a judgment of the
Court of Claims upon a demand for extra compensation in the
performance of a contract made on December 21, 1892, between the United States, represented by the Postmaster
General, and the Utah, Nevada and California Stage Company, for the rendition of certain covered regulation wagon,
mail messenger, transfer and station service on mail route
number 207,003, in the city of New York, for a term from
July 1, 1893, to June 30, 1897. The advertisement contained
certain instructions to bidders, a part of which is as follows:
"The contractors under this advertisement will be required
to perform, without additional compensation, any and all new
or additional service that may be ordered from July 1,, 1893,
or at any time thereafter during the contract term, whether
between post offices and railroad stations, between post offices
and steamboat landings, between post offices and mail stations
or between the several railroad stations, steamboat landings
and mail stations now established or that may hereafter be
established, whether caused by the establishment of new or
by change of site of existing post offices, railroad stations,
steamboat landings or mail stations within said cities or caused
by the alteration of the routes made necessary by any other
reason.
"The statements of probable additional service that may
be necessary on the routes under this advertisement are given
so that bidders may be as fully advised as possible of the
amount likely to be required. It will not, however, limitj he

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

199 U. S.

liability of the contractors to perform all service' that may
become necessary without additional pay.
"Bidders must inform themselves of the distances, the running time, the weight of the mails, the condition of hills, streets,
toll bridges, ferries, and obstructions of all kinds, whereby
expense may be incurred, and as to the probable increase,
additional service, or changes likely to be rendered necessary.
Claims for additional pay based on such grounds, or for alleged
mistakes Qr misapprehensions as to the service required, or for
bridges destroyed or ferries discontinued, cannot be considered."
The Stage Company, having submitted a proposal under
this advertisement, was awarded the contract, and the same
was duly entered into. Among other things it was stipulated:
"To take the mail from and deliver it into the post offices,
mail stations and cars at such points and at such hours, under
the directions of the postmaster at New York, N. Y., approved
by the Postmaster General, as will secure dispatch and connections and facilitate distribution, and ,at the contractor's
expense for tolls and ferriage
"To perform all new or additional or changed covered
regulation wagon, mail messenger, transfer, and mail station
service that the Postmaster General may order at the city
of New York, N. Y., during the contract term, without additional compensation, whether caused by change of location
of post office, stations, landing, or the establishment of others
than those existing at the date hereof or rendered necessary,
in the judgment of the Postmaster General, for any cause,
and to furnish such advance or extra wagons from time to
time for special or advance trips as the Postmaster General
may require, as a part of such new or additional service."
After the contract was entered into, Congress having made
an appropriation for the purpose, a new distribution station
was established 'at Forty-fourth street and Lexington avenue,
in the city of New York, known as the Industrial Building
station. At the time of the advertisement for proposals,

UNITED STATES v. STAGE COMPANY.
199 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

which resulted in the contract, to wit, on September 15, 1892,
the service therein referred to involved the carrying of the
mails for approximately 973,674.22 miles per annum. In the
advertisement bidders were notified that the probable annual
increase in such service would amount to 6,718.40 miles.
Between the time of the advertisement and the time when
complainant entered upon the performance of his contract
additional service was required, which increased the amount
of annual mileage to 1,012,604.54 miles. On August 22, 1893,
an order was made by the Second Assistant Postmaster General, requiring additional mail service to supply the mail
station at Forty-fourth street and Lexington avenue, as per
certain statements attached to the order, and a further order
was made on October 23, 1893, for additional mail station
service. Under the arrangement ordered by the department,
all first class matter (letters) previously collected in the district
of Station H (removed into the Industrial Building from 156
East Fifty-fourth street) continued to be received and handled
there; massed matter made up by the States for the East,
North and West, which had previously been sent to the general post office for distribution, was sent to the Industrial
branch to be distributed. South and West mail was taken
there during the period within suit and assorted, and all of
the second-class bulky matter of publishers above Fourteenth
street, which had formerly been received at the general post
office and Station 0, was delivered at the Industrial Building;
also, all third and fourth class matter, mailed in uptown stations, which had previously come to the general post office,
was sent to the Industrial Building, relieving the general post
office from handling that matter. The result of the orders
aforesaid was that claimant was compelled to increase the
number of wagon trips from October 25, 1893, to February 6,
1895, over and above what would have been the normal increase, and increased the distance to be traveled by the wagons,
over and above the normal increase, 311,939 miles for the
period from October 5, 1893, to February 6, 1895.
VOL. cxcix-27

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

199 U. S.

The Industrial Building was rented in March, 1893, for
postal purposes, in order to relieve the general post office,
which had become inadequate to accommodate the increased
volume of business. Station H1, on May 1, 1893, was moved
from 156 East Fifty-fourth street into the Industrial Building. In connection with Station H there were inaugurated
in the premises the district departments, variously known as
district stations.
By establishing the distribution station in the Industrial
Building, and issuing the orders above set forth, there was no
diminution in the number and character of the runs to and
from the general post office, nor was the mileage at said general post office thereby diminished. To perform this extra
service to and from the Industrial Building the claimant was
required to purchase from 80 to 100 additional horses, and
from 32 to 33 additional wagons; to put on from 45 'to 46 new
runs, and to employ from 33 to 50 additional men-drivers,
hostlers, etc. The orders resulted in such increased speed in
carrying the mails from the Industrial Building to some of the
railroad stations, that in obeying them it was necessary to
violate the city ordinances as to the rate of speed; it largely
increased the wear and tear on the wagons; it injured and
shortened the period of usefulness -f the horses, some of them
dying from overexertion in hot weather by reason of the fast
driving, made necessary by the short time allowed to make
the various trips.
The increase of runs to the railroad" stations outside the city
of New York, made necessary by the establishment of the
extra service from' the Industrial Building, increased the necessary expenditure by the claimant, in the matter of ferry
tolls, in. the sum of $9,950.22.
At no time prior to the making of said bid, or prior t6 entering into said contract,'was. aijy intimation or information given
by the defendants' officers t6 claimant that they contemplated
or intended the establishment. of 'a service at the Industrial
Building.

UNITED STATES v. STAGE COMPANY.
199 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

A postal station was established in the Industrial Building,
and the contractor was required to .transport the mails between it and the various railroad stations and some postal
stations. This postal station was constituted as follows:
"Station H was moved May 1, 1893, from its location at
No. 156 East Fifty-fourth street into he above-named premises.
"Thereafter, on September 1, 1893 (service began October 4,
1893), there was inaugurated in the same premises and in
connection with Station H the distribution department, which
was variously known as 'Distribution station,' 'Industrial
station,' and 'Station H (distribution department),' and the
two together were sometimes known as 'Industrial Branch
station.'
"Before and after the removal of Station H, as above stated,
it was in all respects a branch. post office, at which there were
collections and deliveries of mail by carriers, distribution of
mail matter for dispatch, registration of letters, sale of stamps,
and the issuing of money orders.
"Both that part of the industrial branch which had been
known as Station H, and that part which was referred to as
'Distribution station,' etc., were situated on the same floor
of the Industrial Building, and were 'at all times connected by
a passageway. The former was in charge of a superintendent
of station, and the latter was, until January 5, 1895, under the
direction of an assistant of the superintende\it of mails of the
general post office. Station 1I continued the collection and
delivery of mail by carriers, the sale of stamps, the registration
of matter, and sale of money orders, while the distribution
department had charge of the distribution of second, third
and fourth class matter. The collectors for Station H proper
carried their collections of mail directly into and deposited
.them in the distribution department and the distribution for
dispatch and the assortment for city delivery were made there.
"After the equipment of Industrial Branch station, second
class mail matter mailed by publishers and originating north
of Fourteenth street was mailed at that station.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

199 U. S.

"This mail matter had previously been mailed at the general post office and at Station 0, at which points the distribution had theretofore been made and dispatch made to the several railroad stations, as specifically stated in the advertisement,
Thereafter no further such mailing of second class matter was
made at Station 0, and all dispatches of said mailed matter for
the West and New England States and to and from Grand
Central Station were made from the Industrial Branch statiofn,
a distance of approximately 6 blocks, instead of from the general post office, 3. miles distant, and from Station 0, 11 miles
distant, as theretofore.
"The congested state of the general post office on account
of lack of adequate space, for the remedy of which Station 0
had been established some years before, was well known for
some time prior to the advertisement and proposal for this
service."
The- advertisement of September 15, 1892, containing provision for covered regulation wagon, mail messenger, transfer
and station service, which was made a part of the contract,
undertook to give a schedule of service probably required in
the city as the same existed and was in operation on August 15,
1892, as stated in the advertisement, "so that bidders might
be as fully advised as possible of" the amount of service likely
to be required." The advertisement inadvertently stated the
service between the Manhattan Elevated Railroad station and
the general post office and certain branch stations at one-half
of the number of transfers actually required, consequently the
Stage Company was required to perform, and did perform,
double the number of trips specified.
In the performance of the contract certain foot service was
required, which, it is contended, was not included in the contract, which necessitated 479,875 trips going up and down
steps in making delivery of mail to messengers on elevated
trains, the service requiring the employment of additional men
at each station.
Froqi the findings of fact the Court of Claims held the com-

UNITED STATES v. STAGE COMPANY.
199 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

plainant entitled to recover the sum of $68,483 as compensation for the additional service under the orders of the department, made necessary by the establishment of the extra-service
in connection with the Industrial Building, the sum including
$9,950.22 expenses incurred by the Stage Company in the matter of ferry tolls; also $14,538 because of the double servicerequired between the Manhattan Elevated Railroad and the
general post office, and certain branch post offices, growing
out of the mistake in the advertisement in stating the number
of trips required at one-half the actual number. It disallowed
the claim for extra compensation on account of the "foot service" required in delivering the mail upstairs at the elevated
railway stations. 39 C. Cl.. 420, 440.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Louis A. Pradt and Mr. Joseph Stewart for the United States.
Mr. A. A. Hoehling, Jr., and Mr. J. H. McGowan for Utah,
Nevada and California Stage Company.MR. JUSTICE DAY, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

It is the contention of the Government that, under the authority of the Postmaster General to require new or additional
mail messengers or transfer service, without additional compensation, the contractor might be required to perform the
additional service made necessary by the establishment of the
Industrial Building branch under the authority of the act of
Congress of March 3, 1893, 27 Stat. 732, authorizing the renting of the building to be used for general post office purposes
in the city of New York. The findings of fact establish that
this Industrial Building branch was more than three miles distant from the general post office, and was intended to a,t did
transact nearly all of the business north of Fourteenth street.
This necessitated the carrying of the mails not only from the

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

199 U. S.

general post office to the railroad stations, l)ut to and from the
branch station established at the Industrial Building. In order to perform this service under the directions of the department, complainant was required to furnish eighty additional
horses, more than thirty additional wagons, and from thirtythree .to fifty additional men, requiring an additional distance
to be travelled in wagons, over and above the normal increase,
of 311,939 miles for the period from October 5, 1893, to February 6, 1895, and to pay an increased sum for ferrying the
wagons across the North and East Rivers of $9,950.22. Can
such enormous increase of the service required and the expense
entailed be exacted of a contractor who had agreed to perform
new or additional service of the kind specified without additional compensation? There can be no doubt that the purpose
of placing this stipulation in the contract was to require the
performance, without additional compensation, of new or additional service which might arise from improved methods in
the transaction of the business of the Post Office Department
and in the increased demand for service resulting from the
growth and development of towns and cities. The contract
gave to the Postmaster General very considerable discretion
in calling for additional service which might result from these
causes, without compensation. This was well illustrated in
the case of Slavens v. United States, 196 U. S. 229, in which it
was held that while the Postmaster General might not order,
under such a contract, -service of a different character not within
the contractual arrangement, he might order, without additional compensation, a change in the service which required
the mail to be taken to and from street ears, met at crossings
instead of landings and stations. In that case it happened the
burden upon the contractor was not increased. But in the
present case we find more service required, amounting to additional mileage of hundreds of thousands of miles, and the pay.ment of a large additional sum of money for ferrying wagons
to deliver the mails. There must be some limit to the service
which can be required without additional compensation, under

UNITED STATES v. STAGE COMPANY.
199 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the authority vested in tle Postmaster General by the contract,
to call for new or additional service of the same character.
Otherwise it is within the power of the Government to ruin a
contractor by new and wholly unanticipated demands, which
caution and prudence, however great, could not have foreseen.
If this were a contract between individuals a claim of the right
to require this vast amount of additional work-evidently not
within the contemplation of the parties-without additional
compensation, would hardly be seriously entertained. The
same principles of right and justice which prevail between individuals should control in the construction and carrying out
of contracts between the Government and individuals. The
phrase "new or additional service" is not one of exact meaning, defining the precise extent of the obligation incurred, and
permits the court to give it a reasonable construction with a
view to doing justice between the parties. In giving a proper
construction the court is required to examine the entire contract, to consider the relation of the parties and the circumstances under which it was signed. Rock Island Railway v.
Rio Grande Railroad, 143 U. S. 596, 609. It was said by Mr.
Justice White, in O'Brien v. Miller, 168 U. S. 287; 297:
"The elementary canon of interpretation is, not that particular words may be isolatedly considered, but that the whole
contract must be brought into view and interpreted with reference to the nature of the obligations between the parties,
and the intention which they have manifested in forming them.
Boardnman v. Reed, 6 Pet. 328; Canal Co. v. Hill, 15 Wall. 94."
And, upon the same subject, Mr. Justice Bradley, in the
case of Canal Co. v. Hill, 15 Wall. 94, 99, said:
"We should look carefully to the substance of the original
agreement . .
. as contradistinguished from its mere
form, in order that we may give it a fair and just construction,
and ascertain the substantial intent of the parties, which is
the fundamental rule in the construction of all agreements."
We cannot believe it possible that the parties to this-contract contemplated the establishmenL of a new postal depart-

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

199 U. S.

ment in the city of New York, not then authorized by any act
of Congress, which should so greatly increase the service, requiring more than .300,000 miles of additional transfer service
and nearly $10,000 of additional expense for ferrying during
the time covered in the suit. The Government, in its advertisement, had stated the probable additional annual mileage at
6,718.40 miles. This may be presumed to have been a fair and
impartial estimate, made for the benefit of those with whom the
Government was about to contract, notwithstanding they were
warned that it was not conclusive, There is nothing in the
record to show that it was not a reasonable estimate in the light
of the facts then known. In -this case, after the contract was
entered into, this enormous new service, clearly not intended
by either of the parties. to be rendered, was required. In this
instance we think the limit of reasonable requirement under
'the new and additional service clause was exceeded and the
service required canhot be held to be within the terms of the
contract. We find no error in the Court of iClaims reaching
this• conclusion.
2. The second question involved is as to the right of the contractor to recover because the Government's advertisement
for proposals, instead of stating the number of elevated stations
to be served at four, which was, in fact, the number, gave the
number of stations at two, thus doubling the number of trips
necessary. It is true that the advertisement required the bidders to inform themselves as to the facts, and stated that additional compensation would not be allowed for mistakes; but,
in the present instance, the Government in its advertisement
had positively stated the number of stations at two. The contractor had a right to presume that the Government knew how
many stations were to be served; it was a fact peculiarly within
the knowledge of the Government agents and upon which, in
the advertisement, it spoke with certainty. We do not think,
when the statement was thus unequivocal, and the document
was prepared for the guidance of bidders for Government service, that the general statement that the contractor must in-

ROGERS v. PECK.
199 U. S.

Syllabus.

vestigate for himself, and of non-responsibility for mistakes,
would require an independent investigation of a fact which the
Government had left in no doubt. We think the Court of
Claims correctly allowed this item.
3. As to the compensation for the so-called "foot s6rvice,"
for carrying the mails up and down the steps at the elevated
railroad stations, the delivery of the mail at the foot of the
steps would not have been sufficient, and the contractor agreed
to deliver the mail into the post offices, mail stations and cars.
The statement of facts shows that the preceding contractor had
delivered 'the mail on the platform of the stations at the door
of the cars. We think the contract was not exclusively for
wagon service, but, reasonably construed, required the delivery
of the mail into the elevated stations in such wise as to be
placed in the cars, and consequently required it to be carried
upstairs without extra allowance of pay. We find no error in
disallowing this claim for extra compensation.
The judgment of the Court of Claims is
Affirmed.

ROGERS v. PECK.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT

COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR THE DISTRICT OF VERMONT.
No. 368.

Argued November 6,1905.-Decided November 27, 1905.

The Governor of Vermont has ample power to .grant reprieves to persons
sentenced to death for murder.
It is only where fundamental rights, specially secured by the Federal
Constitution, are invaded that the Federal courts will .interfere with a
State in the administration of its law for the prosecution of crime, and it
will not be presumed that if the freedom of a person properly convicted
of murder and sentenced to death, is improperly restricted that the
state authorities will not afford the necessary relief.
Federal courts will not, by writs of habeas corpus, reverse the proceedings
of state court! while acting within their jurisdiction inder statutes which

