OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Syllabus.

199 U. S.

answer; that it could not be presumed that under such circumstances any Federal prosecution would ever take place,
and that it was, within the reasoning of Brown v. Walker,
supra, a danger so unsubstantial and remote that it was not
necessary (as it was impossible) for the statute to provide
against it. We regard this as a sound view. We do not believe that in such case there is any real danger of a Federal
prosecution, or that such evidence would be availed of by the
Government for such purpose. We think the legal' immunity
is in regard to a prosecution in the same jurisdiction, and when
that is fully given it is enough. The principles underlying
the provision itself have been thoroughly treated in the above
cited cases, and it would be out of place to here renew their
discussion.
We are of opinion that no Federal right of the plaintiff in
error has been violated, and the judgment of the Supreme Court
of Kansas must, therefore, be
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER

and MR.

JUSTICE MCKENNA

dissented.

McCUNE v. ESSIG.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 61.

Submitted November 9, 1905.-Decided November 29, 1905.

The interest which arises in an entryman by his entry, who can fulfil the
conditions of settlement and proof in case of his death, and to whom the
title passes depend upon the laws of. the United States; and a suit brought
by an heir, claiming under the law of a State, against the grantee of the
widow who perfected title and obtained the patent involves the construction of sections 2291 and 2292, Rev. Stat,, and other statutes relating to homesteads, and can be removed on that ground from the state court
to the Circuit Court of the United States.
Under sections 2291 and 2292, Rev. Stat., the widow of the entryman is

McCUNE v. ESSIG.
199 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

first entitled to complete the entry and obtain a patent, and a state law is
not competent to change this provision and give the children of the
entryman an interest paramount to that of the widow.

THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. W. E. Cullen for appellant:
'If this court has jurisdiction of this case, then it must determine all cases where the United States was the grantor,
and a controversy arises as to beneficial interests.
It has not been the policy of this court to determine questions involving the beneficial or equitable title to real estate,
although the title had been acquired from the United States.
Blackburn v. Portland Gold Mining Co., 175 U. S. 571.

As to the laws of Washington making this land community
property, see §§ 4488-4491, 4621 Balling~r's Code; Forker v.
Henry, 21 Washington, 235, 240; Ahern v. Ahern, 31 Washington, 334.
Beyond doubt, the widow took the legal title under'and by
virtue of the patent. The patent operated as a release to the
widow of all the interest of the United States in the land.
Whether she took the beneficial interest as well as the legal
title depends.upon the effect to be given the acts of the legislature of the State, and not upon th6 acts of Congress. Romie
V. Casanova,"91 U. S. 379; McStay v. Friedman, 92 U. S. 723;
Hoadley v. San Francisco, 94 U. S. 4; Blue Bird Mining Co. v.
Largey, 49 Fed. Rep. 289; Shoshone Mining Co. v. Rutter, 177
U. S. 505.
This is not inconsistent with the proposition that after the
title so passed, and vested it became subject to the community
and other property laws of the State.
After any part of the public domain has been entered, and
notice has been properly filed, the land so entered becomes
segregated from the public domain, and the settler has a vested
right therein against everybody, and the Government as well,
and when the patent for such land is issued it relates back and
takes effecf as of the time of such entry. 1 Supp. Rev. Stat."

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Appellees.

199 U. S.

282; Shepley v. Cowan, 91 U. S.330, 337; Sturr v. Beck, 133
U. S. 541, 550; Nor. Pac. Ry. Co. v. McCormick, 89 Fed. Rep.
659.; Witherspoon v. Duncan, 4 Wall. 210, 218; Bardon v. No.
Pac. R. Co., 145 U. S.535; Hastings & Dak. R. R.Co. v. Whitney, 132 U. S.357; United States v. Turner, 54 Fed. Rep. 228;
Burlington &c. P. Co. v. Johnson, 16 Pac. Rep. 125.
The laws, the construction of which appellees claim are involved in this case, simply provide the manner in which a .pat-,
ent may be obtained. In Bernier v. Bernier, 147 U. S. 242,
and Hutchinson Co. v. Caldwell, 152 U. S. 65, there was no
question of state statutes.
Under the doctrine of relation, a patent for a preemption
takes effect from the time of settlement. Section 3 of the act
of May 14, 1880, 21 Stat. 140, provides that patent for
homesteads'.kshall relate back to, the settlement the same as
in preemption. Cases supra and Gibson v. Choteau, 13 Wall.
92.
If the decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals is correct there
can be no such thing as community property in land acquired
by patent and the patentee can convey without the wife, or
husband, as the case may be, joining in the conveyance as required by the laws of the State of Washington.
If this court has jurisdiction it will be bound by the rule laid
down in the state court, as determinative of the rule in the
State, that when title is initiated during the community
and perfected after dissolution the property is community.
Lowndes v. Huntington, 153 U. S.1; United States v. Fox, 94
U. S.315; Arndt v. Griggs, 134 U. S. 321; Investment Co. v.
Caldwell, 152 U. S.65. Hall v. Russell, 101 U. S.503 does not
apply to this case.
Mr. George Turner, Mr. F. H. Graves and Mr. W. G. Graves
for appellees:
Prior to patent, or, at least, prior to a full compliance with
the conditions which entitld him to a patent, the settler has no
more than a right of possession and a right to be preferred in

McCUNE v. ESSIG.
1.99 U. S.

Argument for Appellees.

the purchase of the lands. As against the United States, the
owner of the lands, he acquires no vested right until he has
fully complied with the requirements of the act, and Congress
may at any time vest title in another. Shiver v. United States,
159 U. S. 491; Campbell v. Wade, 132 U. S. 34; Wagstaf v.
Collins, 97 Fed. Rep. 3; Frisbie v. Whitney, 9 Wall. 187; Shepley v. Cowan, 91 U. S. 330; Gonzales v. French, 164 U. S.338,
345'
No doubt this right is, in a sense, a property right. But
it is held at the will of Congress; it may be forfeited for noncompliance with existing laws, or taken away by changes in
those laws. It therefore becomes subject to state regulation
only in so, far as Congress permits. Anderson v. Carkins,
135 U. S.483; Hall v. Russell, 101 U. S. 503, 513, 514.
Section 2291, Rev. Stat. is not a statute providing for the
descent of property. Where a settler upon the public lands
dies prior to completing the necessary period of residence, those
who succeed to his right acquire it not. by descent from him,
but as direct donees from the United States. Hall v. Russell,
101 U. S.503; Maynard v. Hill, 125 U. S.190, 215; CUtting
v. Cutting, 6 Fed. Rep. 259; Stubblefield v. Manzies, 11 Fed.
Rep. 270; United States v. Tichenor, 12 Fed. Rep. 421; Hershberger v. Blewett, 55 Fed. Rep. 177; Cooper v. Wilder, 111 California, 195; Wittenbrock v. Wheaton, 60 Pac. Rep. 664.
The right of a settler is a personal one and those designated
by Congress to succeed to the right take as original grantees
and not through him, and therefore the right is not amenable to the laws of the State where the land is situated when
the settler dies. Cases cited supra; Towner v. Rodegeb, 33.
Washington, 153; Rogers v. Clemans, 26 Kansas, 552; Dawson v. Mayall, 45 Minnesota, 408; Cooper v. Wilder, 111 California, 195; Gjerstadegen v. Van Duzen, 7 N. Dak. 612; Chapman v. Price, 32 Kansas, 446.
The doctrine of relation has nd application in this case. McCune v. Essig, 118 Fed. Rep. 273, following" Gibson v. Chouteau, supra, which held that doctrine to be merely a fiction to
VOL. oxcix-25

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

199 U. S.

prevent injustice to persons standing in privity and having
equitable interests which do not exist in this case. As to the
state law, see Bolton v. Water Power Co., 10 Washington, 246.
This court has no jurisdiction. Anderson v. Carkins, 135
U. S. 483; Bernier v. Bernier, 147 U. S. 242; Investment Co.
v. Caldwell, 152 U. S. 65.
MR. JUSTICE McKENNA delivered the opinion of the court.
Suit in equity to establish title in appellant to an undivided
one-half of northwest quarter of section 6, township 25 north,
range 30 east, Washington meridian 2, and for accounting of
rents and profits and for partition between appellant and appellees.
It was originally brought in the Superior Court in and for
Lincoln County in the State of Washington. A demurrer was
filed to the amended complaint and a petition to remove the
suit to the Circuit Court for the District of Washington, Eastern Division, on the ground- that the suit involved the construction of sections 2291 and 2292 of the Revised Statutes
of the United States, and of all statutes of the United States
relating to homesteads. The suit was removed. In the Circuit Court a motion was made to remand, which was denied.
The demurrer was sustained, and appellant, electing to stand
upon her bill, it was decreed that she had no right, title or
interest in the land. 1 118 Fed. Rep. 273. The decree was
affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals. 122 Fed. Rep. 588.
The facts as exhibited by the bill of complaint are that appellant is the daughter of William McCune, deceased, and his
wife, Sarah MeCune, now Sarah Donahue, and the stepdaughter
of Daniel Donahue, who appears as her guardian ad litem.
William McCuno and his wife .Sarah settled on the land in
controversy, it being a part of the public domain and subject
to settlement under the homestead laws. On the fourth of
April, 1884, McCune filed a claim to the land as a homestead
in the proper land district. In the same year he died intestate,

McCUNE v. ESSIG.
199 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

leaving surviving as his only heirs appellant and his wife Sarah.
They continued to reside on the land until December 17, 1889,
upon which day the mother of appellant made the required
proof of full compliance with the homestead laws, and on
the sixth of March, 1891, a patent was issued to her. In the
year 1892 she, having become Mrs. Donahue, sold and conveyed the land to appellees, who went into possession of it and
have been in possession of it ever since. The value of the land
i sixty-four hundred dollars. The patent recites:
"'Whereas there has been deposited in the General Land
Office of -the United States a certificate of the register of the
land office at Spokane Falls, Washington, it appears that
pursuant to the act of Congress approved May 20., 1862, 'to
secure homesteads to actual settlers on the public domain,
and the acts supplemental thereto, the claim of Sarah Donahue, formerly the Widow of William McCune, deceased, has
been established and duly consummated, in conformity to law,
for the south half of the northeast quarter and the lots numbered one and two of section six, in township twenty-five norti
of range thirty-eight of Willamette meridian in Washington,
containing one hundred and sixty-three and eighty-four hundredths of an acre, according to the official plat of the survey
of the said land, returned to the General Land Office by the
surveyor general:
"Now know ye, that there is, therefore, granted by the
United States unto the said Sarah Donahue the tract of land
above described, to have and to hold the said tract of land,
with the appurtenances thereof, unto the said Sarah Donahue
and to her heirs and assigns forever."
The action 'f the lower courts on the motion to remand and
on the merits are attacked by appellant to a certain extent
on the same ground, to wit, that the laws of Washington determine the title 'of the parties, not the laws of the United
States. The interest in McCune, acquired by his entry, it is
contended, was community property, and passed to appellant
under the laws of the State. Sections 4488, 4489, 4490 and

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

199 U. S.

4491 of the statutes of Washington provide that property and
pecuniary rights owned by either husband or wife before marriage, or that acquired afterwards by gifts, bequests, devise
or descent, shall be separate property. Property not so acquired or owned shall be community property, and, in the
absence of testamentary disposition by a deceased husband
or wife, shall descend equally to the legitimate issue of his or
their bodies. 1 Ballinger's Codes. Relying on these provisions the argument of appellant is, and we give it in the
words of her counsel:
"When William McCune entered this land ie had not the
legal title, but he had an immediate equitable interest and
the exclusive - right: of possession until forfeited by failure to
carry out the terms of his entry. United States v. Turner,
54 Fed. Rep. 228.
"The terms of his entry were carried out. The patent issued
by reason of his entry. The state legislature had the right
to direct to whom that equitable right and interest should
pass. If the rights and interests under that entry had been
forfeited, the state law would have no effect ,upon the title to
the land. That equitable interest ripened, and was confirmed
by the patent."
But this is begging the question. What interest arose in
McCune by his entry, who could upon his death fulfil the conditions of settlement and proof, and to whom and for whom
title would pass, depended upon the laws of the United States.
Bernier v. Bernier, 147 U. S. 242. The motion to remand was
rightly overruled. On the merits we think the ruling of the
lower courts was also right. Hutchinson Investment Co. v.
Caldwell, 152 U. S. 65. Hoadley v. San Francisco, 94 U. S. 4,
and other cases relied on by appellant, are not in point.
Chapter five, Title XXXII, of the Revised Statutes provides who may enter public lands as a homestead and the conditions to be observed as to entry and settlement. By sections 2291 and 2292 it is provided as follows:
"SEC.. 2291. No certificate, however, shall be given, or patent

McCUNE v. ESSIG.
199 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

issued therefor, until the expiration of five years from the date
of such entry; and if at the expiration of such time, or at any
time within two years thereafter, the person making such
entry; or if he be dead, his widow; or in case of her death, his
heirs or devisee; or in case of a widow making such entry, her
heirs or devisee, in case of her death, proves by two credible
witnesses that he, she, or they have resided upon or cultivated
the same for the term of five years immediately succeeding the
time of filing the affidavit, and makes affidavit that no part of
such land had been alienated, except as provided in section
twenty-two hundred and eighty-eight, and that he, she, or
they will bear true allegiance to the Government of the United
States; then, in such case, he, she, or they, if at that time citizens of the United States,' shall be entitled to a patent as in
other cases provided by law.
"SEC. 2292.
.
In case of the death of both father
infant
child or children under twentyleaving
an
and mother,
one years of age, the right and fee shall inure to the benefit of
such infant child or children.
It requires an exercise of ingenuity to establish uncertainty
in these provisions. They say who shall enter and what he
shall do to complete title to the right thus acquired. He may
reside upon and cultivate the land, and by doing so is entitled
to a patent. If he die his widow is given the right of residence
and cultivation, and "shall be entitled to a patent as in other
cases." He can make no devolution of the land against her.
The statute which gives him a right gives her a right. She is
as much a beneficiary of the statute as he. The words of the
statute are clear, and express who in turn shall be its beneficiaries. The contention of appellant reverses the order of the
statute and gives the children an interest paramount to that
of the widow through the laws of the State.
The law of the State is not competent to do this. As was
observed by Circuit Judge Gilbert: "The law of the State of
Washington governs the descent of land lying within the
State, but the question here is whether there had been any

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

199 U. S.

descent of land." And, against application of the state law,
the learned judge cited Wilcox v. Jackson, 13 Pet. 498, 517,
and Bernier v. Bernier, supra. In the former it was said that
whenever the question is whether title to land which had been
the property of the United States has passed, that questioiimust be resolved by the laws of the United States, but that
whenever, according to those laws, the title shall have passed,
then, like all other property in the State, it is subject to state
legislation. In Beanier v. Bernier it was said that the object
of sections 2291 and- 2292 was "to provide the method of completing the-homestead claim and obtaining a patent therefor,
and not to establish a line of descent or rules of distribution
of the deceased entryman's estate." See Hall v. Russell, 101
U. S. 503. And hence it was decided thht Mrs. Donahue took
the title free from any interest or right in the appellant under
the'laws of the State.
Against the effect of the patent conveying title to Mrs.
Donahue,'. appellant invokes the doctrine of relation. It is
admitted "that the title to the real estate in the case at bar
passed and. vested according to the laws of the United States
by patent." But,. it is contended, that a beneficial interest
having. been created by the state law in McCune when the
title passed opat of the United States by the patent, it "instantly dropped back in time to the inception or initiation of
the equitable right of William McCune, and that the laws of the.,
State intercepted and. prevented the widow from having a
complete, titlec w hout first complying with the probate laws
of the State." This, however, is but another way of asserting
the law oP the State against the law of the United States, and
imposing a limitatio'n upon the title of the widow which section 2291_ of the Revised Statutes does not impose. It may
be that appellant's contention has support in some expressions
in the state decisions. If, however, they may be construed
as going to the extent contended for, we are unable to accept
them as controlling.
Decree affirmed.

