OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

CALIFORNIA

REDUCTION COMPANY
REDUCTION WORKS.

199 U. S.

v. SANITARY

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH
CIRCUIT.

No. 25.

Argued October 26, 27, 1905.-Deided November 27, 1905.

The Board of Supervisors of the city and county of San Francisco have
full authority under the constitution and laws of the State of California
to make and enforce within that city and county all such reasonable
sanitary and other regulations as are not in conflict with any general
statute or with the constitution, and which have for their object the
preservation of the public health by whatever cause endange~ed.
Where the power of the authorities to grant privileges t6 be exercised for
public benefit is not limited by law in that respect the duration of the
period, for which the privilege is granted is a matter in their discretion
to be determined on grounds of public policy, and, even if such privileges ought not be granted for long periods, the courts cannot declare
a grant void merely on that ground.
Where a regulation enacted by competent public authority for the protection of the public health has a real, substantial relation to that object the
courts will not strike it down on grounds of public policy or expediency.
Where the basis of the claim is that an ordinance is unconstitutional as
taking private property for public use without compensation, the claim
must be made by one whose property is taken, and it cannot be raised
on his behalf by others whose property is not taken.
An ordinance of competent municipal authorities based upon reasonable
grounds for the cremation of garbage and refuse at a designated place
as a means for the protection of the public health is not a taking of private property for public use without compensation within' the meaning
of the Federal Constitution even though such garbage and refuse may
have some elements of value for certain purposes.
The exclusive privilege granted to one company by the Board of Supervisors of San Francisco to dispose of the garbage in the city and county
of San Francisco held not to be void as taking the property of householders
for public use without compensation.

THE Board of Supervisors of the city and county of San
Francisco, by ordinance adopted February 17, 1896, and known

REDUCTION COMPANY v. SANITARY WORKS. 307
199 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

as Order No. 2965, granted to F. E. Sharon, his associates and
assigns, the sole and exclusive right and privilege, for a term
of fifty years, to cremate and destroy within that city and
county, by crematories or by a process of reduction, house
refuse, dirt, ashes, cinders, sludge, crockery, tins, bones and
other like matter, dead animals: (not prQvided for by contract
or franchise theretofore granted), putrid vegetable matter,
fish, flesh and food condemned by the Board of Health of the
city and county as unfit- for human food-the grantees,
their associates and assigns, having the right to charge and
collect therefor not exceeding the sum of twenty cents per
load.
The grantees, their associates and assigns, were required
to have in operation, within two years after the granting of
the above privilege or franchise, a suitable building or buildings, with necessary crematories, machinery, 'tools and applian ces necessary to cremate and destroy by cremation, or by
a process of reduction, all obnoxious germs and elements contained in house refuse, and other substances above mentioned
-the works to be such as would suffice for the cremation or
reduction of at least three hndred tons per day of such substances.
By the same ordinance it was made unlawful, after erection
of such works, for any person or corporation to remove through
the public streets from any houses, hotels, markets, hospitals,
factories, restaurants, stores or other like building or place, in
the city and county, any of the substances above specified,
except in closed vehicles and wagons constructed so as to conceal the contents from public view, and to effectually prevent
any smell escaping therefrom, as well as to prevent the dropping of any portion of such material or substances on the public streets-such vehicles and wagons to be constructed in
accordance with specifications approved by the Board of
Health of the city and county.
The ordinance also made it unlawful, after the buildings referred to had been constructed, for any person or corporation

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

199 U. S.

to dump or place upon any land, water or waterways within
the city and county, .any such substances, and required that
they should be forthwith delivered to the above crematory,

"and there, at the expense of the person or corporation so
conveying the same, be cremated or destroyed or subjected
to such disposition and treatment as will at once secure and
effect a complete combustion of all gases and odors arising
therefrom."
The grantees, their associates and assigns, were required,
within twenty-four hours after receiving any of the material
or substances above specified, to "cremate or reduce the same,
or subject the same to such process as will secure the complete
combustion of all gases or odors arising therefrom," and to
maintain and operate their plant and crematories, or other
apparatus, "so as to prevent any obnoxious smells or gases
being emitted either from the deposits of such matter or substances on their premises, or from the process of cremation
or other treatment thereof, or from the residuum remaining
after cremation or treatment as aforesaid; also, that in the
operation of said works no smoke or soot shall be emitted so
as to constitute a nuisance."
The ordinance further provided that the grantees, their associates and assigns, should, from and after December 1, 1902,
have the sole and exclusive right and privilege, during the remainder of the term of their franchise, "to remove and dispose
of all dogs killed at the public pound, and all animals impounded
and not redeemed by the owners thereof, and which are valueless and cannot be sold; also, to remove and dispose of the carcasses of all dead animals in said city and county not slain for
human food, which shall not be removed and disposed of by
the owners thereof, so as not to become a nuisance, within six
hours after the death of the same."
It was further provided that the grantees, their associates
and assigns, should be subject to all health and sanitary regulations in force during the existence of said franchises; and
should receive no compensation whatever from the city and

REDUCTION COMPANY v. SANITARY WORKS. 309
199 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

county for services performed by them in disposing of the
specified material and substances.
For the privileges or franchise granted by this ordinance,
Sharon and his associates paid the sum of twenty-five hundred
and ten dollars in cash, and stipulated to pay for fifteen years
two per centum, and for the remaining term of thirty-five
years five per centum, of the gross amount of their receipts
from the business.
The Sanitary Reduction Works, a corporation of California,
became the assignee and successor in interest of the franchise
or privileges granted to Sharon, his associates and assigns, and
notified the Board of Supervisors of the completion of their
works and of their readiness to receive, cremate and destroy
all such substances as were specified in Order No. 2965. The
cost of such works, the present plaintiff alleged, exceeded the
sum of $200,000.
Thereupon the Board of Supervisors, on November 1, 1897,
adopted Order No. 12 (Second Series), which provided that
no person, company or corporation should, on or after November 8, 1897, deposit, dump or cause to be dumped or deposited
upon any street, lot, land, water or waterways within the city
and county, or from any wharf or bulkhead on the water front
of the city and county, any of the above substances or material, and that all such substances or matter should be delivered
at and to the crematory of the Sanitary Reduction Works,
"and there, at the expense of the person, company or corporation so conveying the same, be cremated and destroyed or
subjected to such disposition and treatment as will secure and
effect a complete combustion of all gases and odors arising
therefrom." Any violation of that order was declared to be a
misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not exceeding two hundred
and fifty dollars, or by imprisonment for a term not exceeding
one hundred days, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
The present suit was brought by the Sanitary Reduction
Company against the California Reduction Company, and about
one hundred and fifty individuals.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

199 U. S.

The defendant corporation was organized under the laws of
Colorado, at the instance of certain citizens of California, for
the purpose, we may assume from the record, bf removing, by
boats and barges, large quantities of the material and substances specified in the orders of the Board of Supervisors from
the city and county of San Francisco and depositing them on
lands in the county of San Mateo and elsewhere than at the
works of the Sanitary Reduction Company, thereby preventing the same from being delivered to and incinerated and destroyed by the latter company under its contract with the city
and county of San Francisco.
The individual defendants are subjects of the Kingdom of
Italy, and owners of licensed wagons used in their calling as
scavengers in the city and county of San Francisco. It seems
that a very few of them, noL more than about half a dozen, are
householders in that city and county.
Between the California Reduction Company and the individual defendants there is a written agreement, dated November 22, 1898, requiring the former, within thirty days thereafter,
to provide one or more suitable buildings, wharves or other
places, for the reception from the latter, "of all garbage, ashes,
refuse, butchers' offal, dirt, sludge, crockery, tins or other like
matter, or any putrid animal or vegetable matter, or any fish,
flesh or food, or any dead animals; which said buildings,
wharves or other place or places shall be so located that the
average travel to the same shall not exceed the average haul
to the Sanitary Reduction Works by more than a quarter of
a mile." By that agreement the individual defendants bound
themselves to deliver at the buildings or places provided by
the defendant corporation all such material or substances gathered by them from time to time in the city and county. The
individual defendants also stipulated in the agreement that
they would not deliver any of the above material or substances
to any other party than the California Reduction Company,
nor at any other place than the one designated and chosen by
that company.

REDUCTION COMPANY v. SANITARY WORKS. 311
199 U. S.

Argument for Petitioners.

The pleadings and the evidence in the cause show that the
defendants had entefed upon the execution of their agreement
and the transaction of the business to which it related. No
question is made as to the right of the plai ntiff to exercise
whatever privileges had been legally granted to Sharon, his
associates and assigns.
The object of the suit by the plaintiff corporation was to obtain a decree restraining the defendants, by injunction, from
removing from the city and county of San Francisco, or depositing or dumping at any other place than at the works of the
plaintiff, any of the garbage or other materials specified in the
orders of the Board of Supervisors, or from infringing, directly
or indirectly, the exclusive rights, privileges and franchises
secured to the plaintiff as above stated.
The Circuit Court, Judge Morrow presiding, passed a decree
giving the relief asked. 94 Fed. Rep. 693. That decree was
affirmed in the Circuit Court of Appeals, Judge Hawley delivering the opinion of the court. 126 Fed. Rep. 29.
Mr. R. T. Harding, with whom Mr. Garret W. McEnerney,
Mr. Charles Page and Mr. Edward J. McCutchen were on the
brief, for petitioners:
Considered either as a franchise or a contract under the
police power, the ordinance here involved is a violation of the
Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United
States, for the reason that for a period of fifty years it deprives the householders of San Francisco of property of commercial value by transfe-ring that property to the respondent,
and this without requiring compensation to be made.
For fifty years all property in the substances named is required to be surrendered by the inhabitants of. San Francisco
to the complainant; and the householder must' pay twenty
cents per cubic yard for the reduction of the property surrendered. It cannot be claimed that the articles required to be
surrendered have no value. A number of the substances mentioned are not only of value, but they have a commercial

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Petitioners.

199 U. S.

value and are subjects of quotation in the daily fluctuating
market reports, as, for instance, bones, broken crockery and
tins. It is likewise true of house refuse as distinguished from
garbage. See Alpers v. San°Francisco,32 Fed. Rep. 506, as
to value of dead animals.
Under these circumstances the ordinance is a substantial
violation of the Fourteenth Amendment. State v. Robbins,
124 Indiana, 308.
Ordinances like this are unconstitutional because they involve a confiscation of property. Meyer v. Jones, 49 S. W.
Rep. (Ky.) 809; Iler v. Ross, 90 N. W. Rep. (Neb.) 961; Rendering Co. v. Behr, 77' Missouri, 91; Knauer v. Louisville, 45
S.W. Rep. 510; State v. Morris, 47 La. Ann. 1664; Underwood
v. Green, 42 N. Y. 140; Schoen v. Atlanta, 97 Georgia, 697;
Gregory v. Mayor, 40 N. Y. 273.
Conceding the ordinance to be otherwise constitutional, it is
nevertheless invalid, because there is no authority of law for
requiring householders to pay twenty cents per cubic yard for
the reduction of the substances taken from them and given
to the respondent by the ordinance. Slaughter House Cases,
16 Wall. 36, do not sustain this charge and Walker v. Jamieson, 140 Indiana, 591, can be distinguished;
Considered either as a contract under the police power or as
a franchise, the ordinance here involved never had any legal
existence, for the reason that it was never lawfully enacted.
Considered as a franchise, the ordinance is invalid for want
of power to grant it and for a violation of the prescribed mode
in the granting thereof, if there were power to grant it.
There is no law of California under which the ordinance,
considered as a franchise, could have been lawfully granted.
The ordinance itself purports to have been granted solely under the authority contained in the franchise act of 1893,
Stats. Cal., 1893, p. 298, which does not pretend to authorize
the granting of franchises. Minturn v. La Rue, 23 How.
435; Street Railway v. Detroit Railway, 171 U. S.48.
The grant of the franchise was invalid for the reason

REDUCTION COMPANY v. SANITARY WORKS. 313
199 U. S.

Argument for Respondent.

that it was not sold to the highest bidder, as required by the
act of 1893. Zanesville v. Gas Company, 47 Ohio St. 1; Thompson on Corp. § 5340; Waterloo Road Co. v. Cole, 51 California,
386.
Assuming, however, that the act of 1893 does authorize*
the granting of such a franchise, there is no provision therein
or elsewhere which authorizes the granting of an exclusive
franchise.
Socialism has not become so dominant a principle in the
police power that the State can assume 'or farm out a monopoly
of all of the occupations subject to regulation under the police
power. Der v. Ross, 64 Nebraska, 710.
To justify the exercise of the police power the public interest must require the interference, and the measures adopted
must be reasonably necessary for the accomplishment of the
purpose. Lawton v. Steele, 152 U. S. 133; Allgeyer v. Louisiana,
165 U. S.578.
Mr. Aldis B. Browne, with whom Mr. C. L. Tilden, Mr.
Sheldon G. Kellogg and Mr. Alexander Britton were on the brief,
for respondent:
The orders are valid under the police power vested in the
city and county of San Francisco. Slaughter House Cases, 16
Wall. 36, 62; H. & St. J. R. Co. v. Husen, 95 U. S. 465; Lawton
v. Steele, 152 U. S. 133; Dupont v. District of Columbia, 20
App. D. C. 477, 487; Dillon, Mun. Corp. § 141; Harrington
v. Providence, 20 R. I. 235; Ex parte Tuttle, 91 California, 589;
Ex parte Lacey, 108 California, 326; New York v. Moeschen,
72 N. E. Rep. (N. Y.) 231.
In the city and county of San Francisco the Board of Supervisors was, and is, the body or board which formed the legislative department of the government of that municipality.
McDonald v. Dodge, 97 California, 112, 114; Harrison v.
Roberts, 78 Pac. Rep. 537, 540. And as such was entrusted
with the exercise of the police power therein. Const., California, Art. XI, § 11.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Respondent.

:'

199 U. S.

As to act of 1863 see Ex parte Schrader, 33 California, 279,
and the right of the State to delegate police power to the city
so far as necessary to protect the health of the inhabitants.
Norfolk v. Flynn, 101 Virginia, 473.
As to Iler v. Ross, 64 Nebraska, 710, and other cases cited
by petitioner, see Smiley v. McDonald, 42 Nebraska, 5; Coombs
v. McDonald, 43 Nebraska, 632; State v. Paysson, 47 La. Ann.
1029. As to dead animal contracts see Alpers v. San Francisco, 32 Fed. Rep. 503; FertilizerCo. v. Lambert, 48 Fed. Rep.
458. See also following cases relating to garbage contracts
and ordinances. Walker v. Jameson, 140 Indiana, 591; Grand
Rapids v. De Vries, 123 Michigan, 570; Dupont v. Dist. 'of
Col., 20 App. D. C. 477; People v. Gardner, 100 N. W.
Rep. (Mich.) 126; State v. Orr, 68 Connecticut, 101, 110;
Ex parte Casinello, 62 California, 538; Kilvington v. Superior,
83 Wisconsin, 222, 226; People v. Gordon, 81 Michigan, 570.
The orders are not invalid because they confer an exclusive
privilege. Slaughter House Cases, 16 Wall. 36, 66. It was
necessary to grant an exclusive privilege in order to have the
work properly done. For exclusive garbage and dead animal
contracts upheld see cases cited supra and re Vandine, 6 Pick.
.187; Louisville v. Wible, 84 Kentucky, 290, 295. A similar
rule applied as to text books. Bancroft v. Thayer, 5 Sawyer,
502; Dickinson v. Cunningham, 37 So. Rep. (Ala.) 345; Lupes
v. State, 103 Tennessee, 500; Cooley, Const. Lim., 5th ed., 225.
note.
The ordinances are not invalid as taking private property
without compensation. The material has no value when
gathered by scavefigers and has no value until considerablE
expense and outlay shall have been incurred. That these ordinances do not violate property rights see People v. Gardner,
100 N. W. Rep. (Mich.) 126; Dupont v. Dist. of Col., 20 App
D.C. 477; Fertilizer Co. v. Lambert, 48 Fed. Rep. 458
State v. Orr, 68 Connecticut, 101; Harrington v. Providence,
20 R. I. 235; Baker v. Brown, 12 Pick. 183, 193. And also
in this court. Lawton v. Steele, 152 U. S. 133; Mugler v. Kan-

REDUCTION COMPANY v. SANITARY WORKS. 315
199 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

sas, 123 U. S. 623, 661; Powell v. Pennsylvania, 127 U. S. 678,
685; Barbier v. Connolly, 113 U. S. 27; C., B. & Q. R. R. Co.
v. Chicago, 166 U. S. 226, 255; Norfolk v. Flynn, 101 Virginia,
473; Morgan S. S. Co. v. Louisiana, 118 U. S. 455. The
cases already cited hold that it was within the discretion of
the municipality to grant a term of fifty years.
A municipality has the same right to exercise the police
power in matters within its jurisdiction as th6 Statd. Slaughter
House Cases and Louisville v. Wible, supra; see also Barbier
v. Connolly, 113 U. S. 27; Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 370;
Ex parte Lacey, 108 California, 326; Ex parte Tuttle, 91 California, 589; Ex parte Schraeder, 33 California, 279, 284.
The orders do not interfere with the occupation of scavengers. See Iler v. Ross and Grand Rapids v. De Vries, supra;
Rendering Co. v. Behr, 7 Mo. App. 345, 582.
The charges authorized to be made upon. those delivering garbage do not milke the orders invalid. Raymond v.
Fish, 51 Connecticut, 80, 96; King v. Davenport, 98 Illinois,
305; Walker v. Jameson, 140 Indiana, 591; Meyer v. Jones,
20 Ky. Law Rep. 1632; Smiley v. McDonald, 42 Nebraska,
5, and other cases cited supra. These charges correspond
to inspection fees. Willis v. Standard Oil Co., 50 Minnesota,
290.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.
The defendants insist that the ordinances in question are invalid for the want of power in the Board of Supervisors to adopt
them. This objection does not seem to be well taken. By the
California constitution of 1849 it was provided that "the Legislature shall have power to provide for the election of a Board
of Supervisors in each county, and those supervisors shall
jointly and individually perform such duties as may be prescribed by law." Subsequently, by an act approved April 25,
1863, it was provided that "the Board of Supervisors of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

199 U. S.

city and county of San Francisco shall have power, by regulation or order,

.

.

.

to authorize and direct the sum-

mary abatement of nuisances; to make all regulations which
may be necessary or expedient for the preservation of the
public health and the prevention of contagious diseages; to
provide, by regulation, for the prevention of contagious dis-"
eases; to provide, by Yegulation, for the prevention and summary removal of all nuisances and obstructions in the streets,
alleys, highways and public grounds of said city and county,"
etc. Cal. Stat. 1863, p. 540. Again, in the state constitution
of 1879, it was provided that "any county, city, town or township may make and enforce within its limits all such local, police, sanitary and other regulations as are not in conflict with
general laws." Art. XI, § 11. Further, by an act, approved
March 23, 1803, it was provided, among other things, that
every franchise or privilege to erect or lay telegraph or telephone wires, to construct or operate railroads along or upon
any public street or highway, or "to exercise any other privilege whatever hereafter proposed to be granted by the Board
of Supervisors, Common Council, or other governing or legislative body of any county, city and county, city, town or district within this State, shall be granted upon the conditions in
this act provided, and not otherwise." One of those conditions was that the fact that such franchise or privilege had been
made, together with a statement that it was proposed to grant
the same, should be advertised-the franchise or privilege to
be awarded to the highest bidder. Cal. Stat. 1893, p. 288.
It may be here observed that under the charter of San Francisco the Board of Supervisors for the city and county of San
Francisco constituted the legislative department for that municipality. McDonald v. Dodge, 97 California 112, 114; Harrison v. Roberts, 145 California 173.
In the above constitutional and statutory provisions is found
full authority for the Board to make and enforce, within the
city and county of San Francisco, all such reasonable sanitary
and other regulations as are not in conflict with any general

REDUCTION COMPANY v. SANITARY WORKS. 317
199 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

statute or with the constitution, and which have for their object the preservation of the public health, by whatever cause
endangered. It was substantially so ruled in the Circuit Court
of the United States, Northern District of California, in Alpers
v. City and County of San Francisco, 32 Fed. Rep. 503, Mr.
Justice Field delivering the opinion of the court. The ruling
in that case was followed in National Fertilizer Co. v. Lambert,
48 Fed. Rep. 458. See also The People v. Board of Supervisors of Contra Costa County, 122 California, 421.
It is said that the grant to Sharon, his associates and assigns,
was, in no sense, a franchise. .It is true that the title of the act
of 1893 refers only to franchises. But the body of the act
shows that the legislature intended to embrace privileges,
exercised under public authority and not alone what may be,
strictly, franchises. The exclusive right granted to Sharon,
his associates and assigns, was certainly a privilege, and the
Board of Supervisors had power to grant it in order to protect
the public health. But independently of the above statutes
the Board had power, under the constitution of the State, to
make such sanitary regulations as were not inconsistent with
the general laws, and that broad power carried with it the
power, by contract and ordinance, to guard the public health
in all reasonable ways.
The defendants criticise the ordinances because they give
the exclusive privileges in question for a period of fifty years.
But whether the period during which such privileges might be
exercised, should be long or short, was a matter in the wise
discretion of the Board and determinable wholly upon grounds
of public policy. It may be that grants by public authority
of privileges to be exercised for ,the benefit or in behalf of the
public ought never to be for long periods. But it suffices to
say that no such consideration can control the action of the
judiciary.
The defendants insist that the ordinances in question are in
violation of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution,
in that they deprive the householders of San Francisco of prop-

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

1 199 U. S.

erty of value, by transferring it to the Sanitary Reduction
Works, without requiring compensation to be made; this, it is
contended, being in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment.
Chicago, B. & Q. R. R. Co. v. Chicago, 166 U. S. 226.
We do not perceive that the defendant corporation of Colorado and the individual defendants who are not householders
are entitled to raise any such question. If the householders
do not complain but by silence assent to what the Board did, it
is not for others to say that the property of householders -is
taken for public use without compensation; for householders,
if so minded, may waive any right they have to compensation
for their property destroyed to protect the public health. The
individual defendants, in their answer, claim to be householders in San Francisco. But it seems that only about six of
them are householders. The presence, however, of that number as defendants makes it appropriate, to consider the objection just stated upon its merits.
In determining the validity of the ordinances in question it
may be taken as firmly established in the jurisprudence of this
court that the States possess, because they have never surrendered, the power-and therefore municipal bodies, under legislative sanction, may exercise the power-to prescribe such
regulations as may be reasonable, necessary and appropriate,
for the protection of the public health and comfort; and that
no person has an absolute right "to be at all times and in all
circumstances wholly freed from restraint;" but "persons and
property are subject to all kinds of restraints and burdens,
in order to secure the general comfort, health, and general
prosperity of the State "-the public, as represented by its constituted authorities, taking care always that no regulation,
although adopted for those ends shall violate rights secured
by the fundamental law nor interfere with the enjoyment of
individual rights beyond the necessities of the case. Equally
well settled is the principle that if a regulation, enacted by
competent public authority avowedly for the protection of
the public health, has a real, substantial relation to that object,

REDUCTION COMPANY v. SANITARY WORKS. 319
199 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the courts will not strike it down upon grounds merely of public policy or expediency. Railroad Co v. Husen, 95 U. S. 465,
470, 471; Mugtar v. Kansas, 123 U. S. 623, 661; Lawton v.
Steele, 152 U. S. 133, 136; Atkin v. Kansas, 191 U. S. 207, 223;
Jacobson v. Massachusetts, 197 U. S. 11, 27. In the recent case
of Dobbins V. Los Angeles, 195 U. S. 223, 235, this court said
that "every intendment is to be made in favor of the lawfulness of the, exercise of municipal power making regulations to
promote the public health and safety, and that it is not the
province of the courts, except iri clear cases, to interfere with
the exercise of the power reposed by law in municipal corporations for the protection of local rights and the health and
welfare of the people in. the community."
The record abundantly discloses the grounds upon which
the Board of Supervisors proceeded, in. adopting the ordinances
in question.
The preamble to Order No. 2965 shows that, in the judgment
of the Board, the only'effective mode to dispose of house refuse,
butchers' offal, garbage, putrid or offensive animal or vegetable
matter, refuse, ashes or other like matter, and to prevent such
substances from being deposited in or upon the lots, lands and
public streets of the city and county, or in the waters of the
bay, to the prejudice of the public health, was by cremation or
by some process of chemical reduction., The convittion of
the Board that decided action on the subject was imperatively
demanded for the general good seems to have strengthened.
For, Order No. 12, adopted a year later, stated in its preamble
that from time to time during previous years, the dumping
of garbage, dirt, offal, house refuse, matter, ashes, cinders,
sludge, acids or like matter, to fill in lots, and particularly in
filling in water lots, had become so objectionable and deleterious to the public health that the attempt was made to mitigate such nuisances by covering them over with sand; that it
had, however, become apparent that lots so filled and covered
had thrown off noxious gases, deleterious to the public health,
and when epidemic diseases were prevalent would become a

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

199 U. S.

fruitful source of danger to the sanitary wellbeing of citizens;
and that the Board of Health had called attention to and condemned the disposing of garbage and refuse matter for the
purpose of filling in lots. Such were the reasons which moved
the Board of Supervisors to adopt that order making it unlawful to deposit any of such substances upon streets, lots or lands,
or in any water or waterway, within the city and county, and
requiring that they be delivered at the plaintiff's works, to
be there cremated and destroyed or subjected to such disposition and treatment as would effect a complete combustion of
all gases and odors arising therefrom.
We perceive no ground to doubt the good faith of the Board
of Supervisors; nor can we say that the mode adopted for the
suppression of the evils in question was arbitrary or did not
have a real, substantial relation to the protection of the public
health.
Many of the questions involved in municipal sanitation
have proved to be difficult of solution. There is no mode of
disposing of garbage and refuse matter, as found in cities and
dense populations, which is universally followed. In some
cities, garbage receptacles, properly covered, are provided,
sometimes by the householder, sometimes by the municipal
authorities or the garbage collector. But even such devices
often prove to be worthless for want of proper attention to
them by householders. Then, the question arises for the
consideration of the municipal authorities as to the frequency
of the removal of garbage. The practice is not at all uniform.
In some cities, it is collected seven times a week; in others, six,
four, and three times a week. Again, questions arise as to
the mode in which garbage should be collected, and the statement is made by those who have investigated the subject,
that while "there appears a well-nigh unanimous demand on
the part of health officers and oftentimes of the public generally, for the municipal collection of garbage," the "problem
of garbage disposal has not been solved." Chapin's Municipal
Sanitation in the United States, p. 670. Similar observations

REDUCTION COMPANY v. SANITARY WORKS.
199 U. S.

321

Opinion of the Court.

might be made in reference to what is commonly called dry
refuse, which, in many cities, includes ashes and all the rubbish accumulated in private houses, stores, market houses,
and like places.
These references to the different methods employed to dispose of garbage and refuse have been made in order to show
that the Board had before them a most difficult problemunsolved by experience or science-as to the best or most
appropriate method of protecting the public health in the
matter of the disposal of the garbage, refuse and other materials
found on private premises, and in hotels, restaurants and like
places. The State, charged with the duty of safeguarding the
health of its people, committed the subject to the wisdom and
discretion of the Board of Supervisors. The conclusion it
reached appears in the ordinances in question, and the courts
must accept it, unless these ordinances are, in some essential
particular, repugnant to the fundamental law. The general
result which the Board of Supervisors sought to bring about
was by cremation, or by such other treatment of the materials
as would effect a complete combustion of all gases and odors
arising therefrom. "Cremation," it is said, "is exclusively
employed for getting rid of the garbage in England, and on the
continent of Europe, and is rapidly coming into use in the
United States "-the destruction by fire being theoretically
"an ideal way,. from a sanitary standpoint, for the disposal
of garbage." Chapin, p. 714.
The defendants insist that the requirement that the substances mentioned should be delivered at the plaintiff's works
for cremation or destruction, at the expense of the person,
company or corporation conveying the same, was a taking of
private property for public use without compensation. We
cannot assent to this view. It is the duty, primarily, of a
person on whose premises are garbage and refuse material to
see to it, by proper diligence, that no nuisance arises therefrom which endangers the public health. The householder
may be compelled to submit even to an inspection of his
VOL. cxcix-21

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

199 U. S.

premises, at his own expense, and forbidden to keep them or
allow them to be kept in such condition as to create disease.
He may, therefore, have been required, at his own expense,
to make, from time to time, such disposition of obnoxious
substances originating on premises occupied by him as would
be necessary in order to guard the public health. If the householder himself removed them from his premises, it must have
been at his own expense; and the scavenger who took to the
crematory the material from the premises of origin, under some
arrangement with the householder, was, in effect, the representative, in that matter, of the householder, and was performing a duty resting upon the householder. So that, if the
requirement that the person conveying the material should
pay a given price for having it cremated or destroyed, in effect,
put some expense on the househ older, that gave him no ground
for complaint; for it was his duty to see to the removal of
garbage and house refuse, having its origin on his premises.
Still less has the licensed scavengef a right to complain; for

his right to convey garbage and refuse through the public
streets, in covered wagons, was derived from the public, and
he was subject to such regulations as the constituted authorities, in their exercise of the police power, might adopt. The
whole arrangement may be fairly regarded as one in the interest and for the convenience of the householder. He gets
his proportionate benefit of any revenue derived by the city,
and at the same time shares the protection given to him by
the community. Nor did the destruction of garbage and refitself, and under
use, at an approved crematory, amount, in.
the circumstances disclosed, to a taking of private property
for public use without compensation, even if some of the substances destroyed at the crematory had a value for certain
purposes. The authorities were not, bound, prior to the removal of such substances from- the premises on which they
were found', to separate those that were confessedly worthless from those which might be -utilized. The garbage and
refusematter were all together, on the same premises, and as a

REDUCTION COMPANY v. SANITARY WORKS. 323
199 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

whole or in the mass they constituted a nuisance which the
public could abate or require to be abated, and to the continuance of which the community was not bound to submit.
And when the obnoxious garbage and refuse were removed
from the place of their origin and put in covered wagons to be
carried away, the municipal authorities might well have
doubted whether the substances that were per se dangerous
or worthless would be separated from such as could be utilized
and whether the former would be deposited by the scavenger
at some place that w~ald not endanger the public health.
They might well have thought that the safety of the community could not be assured unless the entire mass of garbage
and refuse, constituting the nuisance, from which the danger
came, was carried to a crematory where it could be promptly
destroyed by fire; and thus minimize the danger to the public
health.
Be all this as it may, the cremation and destruction of garbage and house refuse, under the authority of the municipal
authorities, proceeding upon reasonable grounds, and at a
place designated by law, as a means for the protection of the
public ,health, cannot be properly regarded, within the meaning of the Constitution, as a taking of private property for
public use, without compensation, simply because such garbage and house refuse may have had, at the time of its destruction, some element of value for certain purposes. With
the knowledge of the householder the scavenger receives the
garbage and refuse matter, that which, if separated, might
have value being mingled with that which is, in itself, noxious
and worthless. The entire mass goes into the same covered
wagon, and the authorities are not bound, before its destruction at the crematory, to cause the good to be separated from
the bad, but could require, as the ordinances in question did,
that the substances be promptly conveyed to the designated
crematory and destroyed by fire. Such a disposition of the
contents cannot be regarded as a -taking of private property
for public use without compensation.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

199 U. S.

This court has said that "the possession and enjoyment of
all rights are subject to such reasonable conditions as may be
deemed by the governing authority of the country essential
to the safety, health, peace, good order and morals of the
community. Even liberty itself, the greatest of all rights, is
not an unrestricted license to act according to one's own Will."
Crowley v. Christensen, 137 U. S. 86, 89. In Mugler v. Kansas,
123 U. S. 623, 669, it appeared that certain distillery property
in Kansas was purchased, at a time when it was lawful in that
State to manufacture and sell spirituous liquors, but which
property, by reason of the subsequent prohibiti6n" of such
manufacture and sale, had become of no value, or had materially diminished in value. The owner insisted'that by the
necessary operation of the prohibitory statute, his property
was in whole or in part taken for public use without compensation. But this court said: "The power which the States
have of prohibiting such use by individuals of their property
as will be prejudicial to the health, the morals, or the safety
of the public, is not-and, consistently ,withthe existence and
safety of organized society, cannot be-burdened with the
condition that the State must compensate such individual
owners for pecuniary losses they may sustain, by reason of
their not being permitted, by a noxious use of their property,
to inflict injury. upon the community. The exercise of the
police power by the destruction of property which is itself a
public nuisance, or the prohibition of its use in a particular
way, whereby its value becomes depreciated, is very different
from taking property for public use, or from depriving a person of his property without due process of law. In the one
case, a nuisance only is abated; in the other, unoffending
property is taken away from an innocent owner." In Sedgwick's Treatise on Statutory and Constitutional Law the au'thor says that "the clause prohibiting the taking of private
property without compensation is not intended as a limitatiofi of those police powers which are necessary to the tranquillity of any well-ordered cQmmunity, nor of that general

GARDNER v. MICHIGAN.
199 U. S.

Syllabus.

power over private property which is necessary for the orderly
exercise of all governments. It has always been held that
the legislature may make police regulations, although they
may interfere with the full enjoyment of private property,
and though no compensation is made." pp. 434, 435.
Without further discussion, we hold, for the reasons stated,
that the Circuit Court and Circuit Court of Appeals properly
refused to adjudge that these ordinances were invalid.
Other questions have been discussed by counsel, but 'they
do not require special notice at our hands. We are content
with the disposition made of them in the courts below.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.
MR.JUSTICE BREWER

and

MR.JUSTICE PECKHAM

dissented.

GARDNER v. MICHIGAN.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MICHIGAN.
No. 62.

Submitted November 9, 1905.-Decided November 27, 1905.

Reduction Co., v. Sanitary Works, ante, p. 306, followed as to the power
of municipal authorities to make suitable regulations for the disposition
of garbage, and that such regulations do not amount to a taking of private
property for public use without compensation within the meaning of the
Federal Constitution.
Property rights of individuals must be subordinated to the general good
and if the owner of garbage suffers any loss by its destruction he is compensated therefor in the common benefit secured by the regulation requiring all garbage to be destroyed.
Courts may take judicial notice of the effect of garbage on the public health.
The fact that a law relating to jury trials applicable to a particular county
in a State is different from the general law on that subject applicable to
all other counties is not necessarily a discrimination against the people

