HARTMAN v. BUTTERFIELD LUMBER CO.
199 U. S.

335

Statement of the Case.

Perceiving no error in the record touching any Federal
question, the judgment is
Affirmed.
and MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM dissent
from the opinion so far as it relates to the ordinances in question.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER

HARTMAN v. BUTTERFIELD LUMBER COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSISSIPPI.
No. 44. Argued November 7, 1905.-Decided November 27, 1905.
A homesteader, after obtaining his patent, conveyed to a lumber company
all the standing timber on the land and other rights therein pursuant to
a contract made prior to the issuing of the patent; subsequently he conveyed all his interest in the land to one who thereupon.claimed the timber
on the ground that the prior conveyance was void as violative of the land
laws and land policy of the United States. Held, that:
When the patent issues to a homesteader the full legal title passes to the
patentee and he may do with the land that which he sees fit.
An executed contract, voluntarily executed, without fraud or duress, is
binding and cannot be repudiated by the party who executed it, and one
whose interest in land is acquired subsequently to a conveyance thereof
by the owner has no higher rizht to question the conveyance than the
grantor had.
Although the grantee of the timber might not have been able to enforce
the contract because void as made in violation of the land laws of the
United States, the conveyance having been voluntarily made after the
issuing of the patent, could not be attacked on that ground by the grantor
or his subsequent grantee. Whether the Government itself could challenge the conveyance not decided.

IN December, 1892, Esau Harness received a patent from
the United States for 160 acres of land in Lincoln County,
Mississippi. On January 28, 1893, he conveyed to the Norwood and Butterfield Company all the pine timber on the land
"and a right of way through and across the land for roads,
trams or railroads 100 feet wide," This instrument was filed

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

199 U. S.

for record February 10, and the complainant below (defendant
in error here) subsequently obtained a deed from the Norwood
and Butterfield Company. On January 30, 1893, the patentee
conveyed his entire interest in the land as security for supplies
and merchandise to be furnished by Hartman, the plaintiff in
error (defendant below), during the year 1893. This deed
was filed for record January 31, 1893. On December 14, 1894,
the trustee therein named sold and conveyed the land to
Hartman.
This suit was brought in the Chancery Court of Lincoln
County, Mississippi, to establish the prior right of the complainant to the timber and right of way. The bill charged
that the defendant had actual notice of the conveyance from
the patentee to the Norwood and Butterfield Company when
he accepted the trust deed from the patentee, and therefore
that he was subordinated in right to those claiming under the
first conveyance, although it was not placed on record until
after the execution and record of the deed of trust. It appeared in the testimony that prior to the patent the patentee
had contracted with the Norwood and Butterfield Company
to convey to it the timber and right of way. He himself testified that he had made such a contract, both before and after
he had received the patent. The Supreme Court of the State,
deciding in favor of the complainant, 82 Mississippi, 494, considered the effect of the contract made before the patent upon
the validity of the subsequent conveyance to the Norwood
and Butterfield Company, saying:
"We are driven to the conclusion that the decree of the court
below must have been the result of an opinion that the agreement between Esau Harness and the grantor of appellant that,
in consideration of the advance money to perfect his homestead entry and get his patent, Esau would sell the timber on
the land in controversy, was against the public policy and void,
and made void also the subsequent sale of the timber to reimburse for that advance. We are not in accord with that view.
Rev. Stat. U. S. §§ 2290, 2291, 2296 (U. S. Comp. St. 1901, pp.

HARTMAN v. BUTTERFIELD LUMBER CO.
199 U. S.

337

Opinion of the Court.

1389, 1390, 1398), with Gould & Tucker's notes, vol. 1, p. 537.
On the testimony we cannot escape the conviction that the
appellee had such notice as should put any reasonable man on
inquiry, which would have disclosed the existence of the conveyance of the timber and right of way by Esau to the grantor
of appellants.
"Reversed, and decree here in accordance with the prayer
of the bill."
Mr. P. Z. Jones for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Holmes Conrad for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.
For the purposes of this case it may be conceded that the
contract made before the patent was, by virtue of the policy
of the United States as disclosed in its statutes, void, and could
riot have been enforced by the Norwood and Butterfield Com-pany, but the contract was not inherently vicious or immoral.
It was simply void because in conflict with the Federal statutes.
Anderson v. Carkins, 135 U. S. 483. When the patent issued
the full legal title passed to the patentee. He could do with
the land that which iesaw fit, sell or give it away, and if he
voluntarily conveyed it he could not thereafter repudiate the
conveyance. He may well have thought that having received
money from the company to enable him to pay for the land
it was equitable that he should convey that interest which he
had agreed to convey. At any rate, he had a right to exercise a choice in the matter, and having exercised it lie at least
cannot complain. Whether the Government could challenge
the conveyance we need not determine, for if it had any right
to interfere, it has not chosen to do so. It is generally true
that hn executed contract, voluntarily executed, without fraudor duress, is binding and cannot be repudiated by the party
who executed it. In Bibb v. Allen, 149 U. S. 481, 497, Mr.
Justice Jackson, speaking for the court, thus stated the law:
VOL. cxcix- 22

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

199 U. S.

"It is well settled by the authorities that the defense of the
statute of frauds cannot be set up against an executed contract.
Dodge. v. Crandall, 30 N. Y. 294, 304; Brown v. Farmers' Loan
& Trust Company, 117 N. Y. 266, 273; Madden v. Floyd,.69
Alabama, 221, 225; Gordon, Rankin & Co. v. Tweedy, 71 Alabama, 202, 214; Huntley v. Huntley, 114 U. S. 394, 400; Browne
on Statute of Frauds, § 116. This rule proceeds and rests upon
the principle that there is 'no rule of law which prevents a
party from performing a promise which could not be legally"
enforced, orwhich will permit a party, morally but not legally
bound to do a certain act or thing, upon the act or thing being
done, to recall it to the prejudice of the promisee, on the plea
that .the. promise, while still executory, could not by reason
of some technical rule of law have been enforced by action.'
Newman v. Nellis, 97 N. Y. 285, 291." St. Louis Hay &c. Co.
v. United States, 191 U. S. 159, 163.
It is also well settled that one whose interest in land is
acquired subsequently to a conveyance thereof by the owner
has no higher right 4o question the conveyance than the grantor
had. This does not conflict with the rule that a conveyance
fraudi~lent against creditors may be set aside at their-instance;
for their rights exist prior to the conveyance, or if not, the conveyance was made with the purpose on the part of the grantor
of defrauding them out of debts subsequently contracted.
Nothing of that kind appears here. Hartman, at the time of
the conveyance, had no claim against the patentee. The conveyance was not made with the purpose of subsequently contracting a debt and defrauding him out of payment thereof.
His trust deed was executed after the conveyance to the Norwood and Butterfield Company and for the purpose of securing
debts thereafter to be contracted, and he took with knowledge
of the conveyance.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Mississippi was right,
and it is
Affirmed.

HARTMAN v. BUTTERFIELD LUMBER CO.
199 U. S.
MR.

WHITE,

JUSTICE WHITE,

339

:J., dissenting.'

dissenting.

The reasons for my dissent are stated, not only because of
what seems to me is the encouragement afforded to frauds on
the homestead law by the ruling now made, but also because
of the possible injurious consequences: to arise from the application hereafter of the assumed legal principles upon which
the ruling is based.
These are the facts: Harness entered the homestead. Before
he had performed the conditions required by the law of the
United States to entitle him to a patent, he made a contract
with the Norwood and Butterfield Company, to convey to
them, when he received a patent, the pine timber on the land
and a right of way through and across the land for roads, trams
or railroads one hundred feet wide. Harness ultimately filed
the proofs required by the acts of Congress; in other words,
made an affidavit, as required by law, to the effect that he had
the sole interest in the land, and that-there was an absence of
interest in anybody else. Obtaining the -patent, he made the
stipulated conveyance to the Norwood and Butterfield Company, which afterwards conveyed to the Butterfield Lumber
Company, defendant in error. Before this deed, however, was
recorded, as-required by the laws of Mississippi, Harness mortgaged the land to Hartman, plaintiff in error, and the mortgage
was at once recorded. Thereafter the deed was recorded.
Soon afterward the Butterfield Company filed its bill in a court
of chancery in Mississippi to establish its alleged prior rights
under the deed from Harness, and it was averred that Hartman accepted the mortgage to him with notice of the prior
transfer, and therefore took subject to the deed.
That a Federal question was present is conceded, in view
of the fact that the Mississippi court applied the laws of the
United States in determining the validity of the contract and
the deed. Having decided that they were valid, and that
Hartman had notice of the transaction before the execution
of the mortgage, the state court further held that the rights

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
WHITE,

J., dissenting.

199 U. S.

of Hartman were subordinate to those conferred by the contract and deed. I do not stop to demonstrate that a contract
made by a homesteader to convey to another, when a patent
is obtained, a right to stuip the land of all the timber and to
vest in such party a right of way for a tramway to make theremoval of the timber effectual, is void under the homestead
laws of the United States. This I do not feel called upon to
do, because the court in deciding this case expressly assumes
that the contract to convey the timber was void, and bases its
ruling upon that assumption, citing Anderson v. Carkins, 135
U. S. 483. But at the same time it is declared-that although
the contract was void, by virtue of the policy of the United
States as disclosed in its statutes, such contract was not inherently vicious or immoral. The deduction seems to me to
be unwarranted. Considering a contract of this nature, in
Anderson v. Carkins, it was said:
"There can be no question that this contract contemplated
perjury on the part of Anderson, and was designed to thwart
the policy of the Government in the homestead laws, to secure
for the benefit of the homesteader the exclusive benefit of his
homestead right. Such a contract is against public policy,
and will not be enforced in a court of equity."
And the doctrine of Anderson v. Carkins, which is conceded
applies to this case, was reiterated in Adams v. Church, 193
U. S. 510, 515.
It having been impossible for the homesteader, without
fraud and perjury, to execute the contract to strip the land of
its timber and give a right of way for a tramway to make the
stripping effectual, it seems to me that it cannot be said that
it was not immoral and vicious. And when the necessary
effect of the contract is thus fixed, it is submitted that it becomes at once patent that decisions holding that executed
contracts are not affected by the statute of frauds have no
application to this case, for, as said by Mr. Justice Jackson,
in the case relied upon to demonstrate the doctrine, Bibb v.
Allen, 149 U. S. 481, 497, "contracts not in conformity

HARTMAN v. BUTTERFIELD LUMBER CO.
199 U. S.

WHITE,

J., dissenting.

with the statute (of frauds) are only voidable and not
illegal."
It is said, however, that Harness made a deed in accordance
with the contract, and this suit involves not the contract but
the deed. But unless this proceeds upon the assumption that
the contract was merely voidable and not illegal, as being
contrary to public policy, it seems to me to be a plain misconception. This is said, since it cannot be that a court of equity
will not enforce the specific performance of a contract which is
void as against public policy, but yet will lend its aid to one
of the parties by enforcing a deed which permits the fruits of
.the void contract to be realized.
As said in Deweese v. Reinhard, 165 U. S. 386, a case concerning the homestead laws:
"A court of equity acts only when and as conscience commands, and if the conduct of the plaintiff be offensive to the
dictates of natural justice, then, whatever may be the rights
he possesses and whatever use he may make of them in a court
of law, he will be held remediless in a court of equity."
And especially must this be true where, as here, one of the
parties to an illegal and void transaction invokes the aid of
equity to give efficacy to perjury and a violation of public
policy.
But it is asserted that whatever may be the right of the
United States to assail the conveyance in question, neither
the grantor nor his assignee has such right. Here, again, it
seems to me clear that the distinction has been lost sight of
which exists between contracts which are merely voidable and
those which are void because contrary to public policy. That
in a case of the latter character either party to the unlawful
transaction or those in privity with them may be heard to
contest the right of one of the wrongdoers to the active aid
of a court of equity in making the illegal act effective, has long
since been decided by this court. Harkness v. Underhill, 1
Black, 316, 325.
I therefore dissent.

