OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

199 U. S.

COCHRAN AND THE FIDELITY AND DEPOSIT COMPANY v. MONTGOMERY COUNTY.
SAME v. SAME.
ERROR AND CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
FOR THE FIFTH CIRCUIT.
Nos. 37, 112.

Argued November 2, 1905.-Decided November 27,

1905.

1. A citizen of Alabama brought suit in an Alabama state court against
a citizen of Maryland and a citizen of Alabama, whereupon the Circuit
Court for the Northern District of Alabama ordered the removal of the
case on the petition of the citizen of Maryland alleging prejudice or
local influence. A motion to remand was denied, and the case went to
trial and judgment. That judgment was affirmed by the Circuit Court
of Appeals and a'writ of error from this court was thereupon prosecuted.
Held: That as the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court as exercised was dependent entirely on diversity of citizenship, the judgment of the Circuit
Court of Appeals was final and the writ of error could not be maintained.
2. But this court having granted the writ of certiorari in order to pass upon
the question of the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court, held:
(a) That the clause of the applicable statute treating of removals because of prejudice or local influence does not furnish a separate
and independent ground of Federal jurisdiction and describes
only a special case comprised in the preceding clauses.
(b) That those suits only can be removed of which the Circuit Courts
are given original jurisdiction, and that the right of removal
because of diversity of citizenship can only be exercised by a
defendant who is a citizen, or by defendants who are citizens,
of a State other than that in which the suit is pending.
(c) That as in the present case suit was brought in plaintiff's State against
a citizen of the same State and a citizen of another State, it could
not have been originally brought in the Circuit Court and the
removal was improvidently granted.
(d) As the removal was had on the application of the non-resident defendant, the costs of this court and of the Circuit Court must be
paid by that party.

THis action was brought January 21, 1902, in the City
Court of Montgomery, Alabama, by the. County of Montgomery, one of the counties of the State of Alabama, against

John J. Cochran, a citizen of that county and State, and the
Fidelity and Deposit Company of Maryland, a corppration

COCHRAN v. MONTGOMERY COUNTY.
199 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

of the State of Maryland, Cochran being the treasurer of the
plaintiff county and the Fidelity and Trust Company of Maryland being the sole surety on the official bond of said Cochran
as such county treasurer, to recover damages for certain alleged
breaches of said official bond. Cochran was charged with the
conversion of amounts belonging to the general fund of the
county and of amounts belonging to the road and bridge fund.
Demurrers to the complaint were severally filed by defendants in the state court.
February 15, 1902, the Fidelity and Deposit Company presented to the District Judge of the United States for the Middle
District of Alabama, holding the Circuit Court, its petition
for the removal of the cause into the Circuit Court of the
United States for that district, alleging, among other things,
that the matter in dispute exceeded the sum of two thousand
dollars, exclusive of interest and costs, and "'that the said
controversy is between citizens of different States, in that the
plaintiff was at the time of the commencement of said suit,
and still is, a citizen of the State of Alabama; and your petitioner, The Fidelity and Deposit Company of Maryland, was at
the time of the commencement of said suit, and still is, a citizen
of the State of Maryland, and of no other State, having its
principal office in the city of Baltimore, in the State of Maryland, and that your petitioner desires to remove this suit,
which is now pending and undetermined in said state court,
before the trial thereof, into the Circuit Court of the United
States, to be held in the Middle District of Alabama."
The petition then averred "that from prejudice or local
influence in favor of the plaintiff, and adverse to this defendant, it ivill not be able to obtain justice in said court or in any
other state court to which the defendant may, under the laws
of this State, have the right to remove said cause, on account
of said prejudice or local influence;" that the suit was against
John J. Cochran, the treasurer of said county, and petitioner,
a surety company and a surety on the official bond of said
Cochran as such treasurer, to recover the sum of one hundred

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Can.

199 U.

S.

and twenty thousand dollars, the full penalty of the" bond;
"and that by reason of the nature of said suit, all the residents
and citizens of said Montgomery County have a direct interest
in the recovery by the said plaintiff of the amount claimed."
It was further alleged that Cochran was "practically financially irresponsible" and therefore "practically only a nominal
party to the suit," because the Surety Company "would be
obliged to meet practically the whole claim should judgment.
be rendered against defendants;" and then set forth certain
circumstances tending to show that there was local prejudice
against the Surety'Company "in any county in the State of
Alabama in which said case should be tried." On the filing
of the petition the judge entered an order finding that it appeared to the court "that from local prejudice or local influence" the Surety Company would not be able to obtain
justice in the City Court of Montgomery, or in any other state
court to which the company might have the right to remove
the cause, and that the court was of opinion that it should be
removed to the Circuit Court, on the giving of bond in the penalty of one thousand dollars, and ordered the removal of the
cause accordingly. The case came on to be heard in the
Circuit Gourt at the May Term, 1902, when the plaintiff moved
to remand upon the ground that the Federal Court was without
jurisdiction, one of. the defendants being a citizen of the same
State as the plaintiff. This motion was overruled. 116 Fed.
Rep. 985. On- the trial the plaintiff amended the complaint
by adding four additional counts, to which demurrers were
sustained; and thle case was tried .on the original complaint
and the general issue and certain special pleas interposed by
defendants. The result was a judgment in favor of plaintiff
for the amount of the general fund converted, but under the
rulings of the court there was no recovery on account of the
road'and 'bridge fund. On writ of error sued out by plaintiff
this judgment was reversed and a new trial ordered by the
Court of Appeals. 121 Fed. Repi. 17. On a second trial,
May 28, 1903, the complaint was amended in certain particulars

COCHRAN v. MONTGOMERY COUNTY.
199 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

and three new counts added. The second trial resulted in a
judg-nent in favor of plaintiff for an amount less than the
amount claimed. On this judgment cross writs of error were
sued out from the Circuit Court of Appeals, and the judgment
reversed on the writ brought by plaintiff and a new trial
ordered. 126 Fed. Rep. 456. The third trial, February 3,
1904, resulted in a judgment in favor of plaintiff for the full
amount of the road and bridge fund converted by Cochran,
with interest, less certain admitted payments made by him,
and not including the amount of the general fund which had
been in the meantime voluntarily paid by the company. On
this last judgment, defendants sued out a writ of error to the
Court of Appeals and the judgment was affirmed. 128 Fed.
Rep. 1019. And thereupon the present writ of error was
allowed. The case is numbered 37. Application for certiorari
was made and is numbered 112.
Mr. Edgar H. Gans and Mr. Thomas A. Whelan for plaintiffs in error:
On the question of jurisdiction of the Circuit Court.
The Circuit Court has jurisdiction on a removal for prejudice
or local influence, at the instance of a Maryland defendant,
when the plaintiff and anodier defendant are citizens of Alabama. Section 1 of the removal statute as it now stands,
act of March 3, 1887, as amended by that of August 13, 1888,
but see the removal act of 1875 in force prior thereto, which
did not provide for severable controversies or for prejudice
and local influence. ,The prejudice and local influence statute
was the act of 1867, March 2, see Rev. Stat. § 639, el. 3 ; Fisk v.
Henarie, 142 U. S. 459; Whelan v. Railroad Co., 35 Fel. Rep.
849; B. & 0. R. R. v. Bates, 119 U. S. 464. The question is one
of statutory construction dependent mainly upon the ordinary
and usual meaning of the words used. In the removal acts
prior to 1888, there could be no removal unless all the defendants were citizens of another State. This was because the
words used had received a settled construction from the time

OCTOBER TERM. 1905.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

199 U. S.

of the passing of the first judiciary act. Sewing Machine Cases,
18 Wall. 553; Vannevar v. Bryant, 21 Wall. 41; Myers v. Swann,
107 U. S. 546; Iron Co. v. Ashburn, 118 U. S. 54; Hancock v.
Holbrook, 119 U. S. 586.
The construction of those phrases in clauses I and 2 requiring
all the defendants to join in the removal, is based upon the
ordinary and usual meaning of the words employed. Chicago
v. Martin, 178 U. S. 245; Montclair v. Ramsdell, 107 U. S. 147.
There is clearly an enlargement of the right to remove in
respect to defendants who can show that from prejudice or
local influence, he or they cannot obtain justice in the stath
court. The local prejudice clause has no relation to the
separable controversy clause. Jefferson v. Driver, 117 U. S.
272; Iron Co. v. Ashburn, 118 U. S. 54.
The act permits or authorizes removal, though some of the
defendants may be citizens of the State in which the plaintiff
resides. Huskins v. Cincinnati, 37 Fed. Rep. 507; Wilder v.
Iron Co., 46 Fed. Rep. 676.
When all the plaintiffs are citizens of one State, and the
defendant is a citizen of another and different State, any such
citizen may remove without regard to the citizenship of his
co-defendants. Detroit v. City. Ry. Co., 54 Fed. Rep. 1; Adelbert College v. University, 47 Fed. Rep. 836, 845; Hall v. Chattanooga, 48 Fed. Rep. 599; Haire v. Rome Railway Co., 57 Fed.
Rep. 321 ; Bonner v. Meikle, 77 Fed. Rep. 489.
Prejudice or local influence is made by the statute a ground
for the removal of a cause from the state to the Federal Court.
By the letter of the statute, as well as by the great weight of
adjudicated cases, the non-resident defendants may remove
the case. Holmes v. Lo. Ry. Co., 125 Fed. Rep. 301; Seaboard
v, North Carolina, 123 Fed. Rep. 629; Bartlett.v. Gales, 117
Fed. Rep. 363.
Against these there are onmy iour cases holding that in
prejudice and local inquence cases all the defendants must be
non-residents of the State in which the suit is ibrought. Andlrson v. Bowers, 43 Fed. Rep, 321; TerTeHauite V. Evansville,

COCHRAN v. MONTGOMERY COUNTY.
199 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

106 Fed. Rep. 545; Campbell v. Milliken, 119 Fed. Rep. 982;
Weldon v. Fritzlen, 128 Fed. Rep. 608.
The preponderance of authority is on the side that plaintiff
in error contends for.
Under the third clause of the act there may be a removal,
even though one defendant is a citizen of the State in which
suit is brought and another a citizen of another State. Ches.
& Ohio Ry. Co. v. Dixon, 179 U. S. 131; Connell v. Smiley, 156
U. S. 335; Carothers v. McKinley, 116 Fed. Rep. 951; National
Bank v. Trust Co., 117 Fed. Rep. 969; Sugar Creek Co. v. MeKell, 75 Fed. Rep. 34; Lake Street Co. v. Farmers' Loan Co.,
72 Fed. Rep. 804; Vinal v. Continental, 34 Fed. Rep. 228;
Moon on Removals, 397, § 138.
Under the Constitution, Congress has the power to give the
Circuit Courts jurisdiction when one of the defendants is a
resident and the other a non-resident. Gaines v. Fuentes, 92
U. S. 10; Fisk v. Henarie, 32 Fed. Rep. 417, 423; Haire v.
Rome Ry. Co., 57 Fed. Rep. 321; Whelan v. Railway Co., 35
Fed. Rep. 849, 858.
Mr. William L. Martin and Jesse F. Stallings for defendant
inerror:
On the question of jurisdiction.
Under the act of 1887-1888 the Circuit Court has no jurisdiction, either original or by removal from a state' court, of a
suit as one arising under the Constitution, laws or treaties of
the United States, unless that appears by the plaintiff's statement to be a necessary part of his claim; and that if it does not
appear at the outset that the suit is one of which the Circuit
Court at the time its jurisdiction is invoked could properly
take cognizance, the lack of jurisdiction cannot be supplied
by anything set up in the application for removal or in the
defense interposed. Colorado Mining Co. v. Turck, 150 U. S.
138; Tennessee v. Union &- Planters' Bank, 152 U. 5&454;
Chappell v. Waterworth, 155 U. S. 102; Postal Telegraph-Cable
Co. v. Alabama, 155 U. S. 482; East Lake v. Brown, 155 U. S.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

199 U. S.

488; Burgmeyer . Idler, 159 U. S. 408; Oregon Short Line Ry.
Co. v. Scottowe, 162 U. S. 490; Hanford v. Davies, 163 U. S. 273;
Suburban Ry. Co. v. Lewis, 173 U. S. 457; Arkansas v. Coal Co.,
183 U. S. 185; Spencer v. Duplan Silk Co., 191 U. S. 526.
When a suit does not really and substantially involve a dispute
or controversy as to the effect or construction of the Constitution or laws of the United States, upon the determination of
which the result depends, it is not a suit arising under the
Constitution and laws. West. Un. Tel. Co. v. Ann Arbor R. R.
Co., 178 U. S. 239; Lampasas v. Bell, 180 U. S. 276; Northern
Pacific Ry. v. Soderberg, 188 U. S. 526, 528; Water Company v.
Defiance, 191 U. S. 184, 190, 191; Casualty Ca. v. Minneapolis
&c. Ry. Co., 192 U. S. 371, 385; Cosmopolitan Mining Co. v.
Walsh, 193 U. S. 460; Sloan v. United States, 193 U. S. 614.
. When the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court is invoked on
the ground of diverse citizenship, the judgment of the Circuit
Court of Appeals is final, even though another ground for jurisdiction in the Circuit Court may be developed in the course
of the subsequent proceedings in the case. Cases supra and
Press Publishing Co. v. Monroe, 164 U. S. 105: Ex parte Jones,
164 U. S. 691.
There was no possible ground of jurisdiction in the Circuit
Court other than diversity of citizenship. Upon that ground
Federal jurisdiction was invoked and assumed-whether correctly or erroneously is not pertinent to the consideration of
this motion. The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals
is therefore final under. § 6 of the act. Cases supra and Huguley
Mfg. Co. v. Galeton Cotton Mills, 184 U. S. 290.
The jurisdiction of the Circuit Court was none the less "dependent entirely" upon diverse citizenship because of the fact
that the removal was upon the ground of prejudice or local
influence. Clause 4, § 2, of the act does not furnish a separate
and independent ground of Federal jurisdiction but describes
only a special case comprised p the preceding clauses. In re
Pennsylvania Co., 137 U. S. 451, 456; Malone v. ,fch.& Dan.
Railroad, 35 Fed. Rep. 64h,

COCHRAN v. MONTGOMERY COUNT,.
199 U. 4.

Opinion of the Court.

MR. CHIEF JUSTIcE FULLER,

after making the foregqtog

statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
The first question is whether this court can entertain jurisdiction of this writ of error, and this must be answered in the
negative, if the ground on which the jurisdiction of the Ciro. t
Court was invoked was "dependent entirely upon the opposite
parties to the suit or controversy, being

.

,

.

citizens of

different States," because in such case the judgment of the
Circuit Court of Appeals was final. Act of March 3, 1891, 26
Stat. 828, c. 514, §6.
By section one of the judiciary act of 1887, as corrected in
1888 (25 Stat. 433, c. 866), the Circuit Courts of the United
States are given "original cognizance, concurrent with the
courts of the several States, of all suits of a civil nature, at
common law or in equity, where the matter in dispute exceeds,
exclusive of interest and costs, the sum or value of two thousand
dollars, and (1) arising under the Constitution or laws of the
United States, or treaties made, or which shall be made, under
their authority, or (2) in which controversy the United States
are plaintiffs or petitioners, or (3) in which there shall be a
controversy between citizens of different States, in which the
matter in dispute exceeds, exclusive of interest and costs, the
sum or value aforesaid, or (4) a controversy between citizens
of the same State claiming lands under grants of different
States, or (5) a controversy between citizens of a State and
foreign States, citizens, or subjects, in which the matter in
dispute exceeds, exclusive of interest and costs, the sum or
value aforesaid,

.

.

.

and no civil suit shall be brought

before either of said courts against any person by any
original process or proceeding in any other district than that
whereof he is an inhabitant, but where the jurisdiction is
founded only on the fact that the action is between citizens of different States, suit shall be brought only in the
district of the residence of either the plaintiff or the deferdant;

.

.

"

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

199 U. S.

Section 2 of the act provides for the removal of causes, as
follows:
"That any suit of a civil nature, at law or in equity, arising
under the Constitution or laws of the United States, or treaties
made, or which shall be made, under their authority, of which
the Circuit Courts of the United States are given original
jurisdiction by the preceding section, which may now be pending, or which may hereafter be brought, in any state court,
may be removed by the defendant or defendants therein to the
Circuit Court of the United States for the proper district.
Any other suit of a civil nature, at law or in equity, of which
the Circuit Courts of the United States are given jurisdiction
by the preceding section, and which are now pendinag, or which
may hereafter be brought, in any state court, may be removed
into the Circuit Court of the United States for the proper district by the defendant- or defendants therein, being nonresidents of that State. And when in any suit mentioned
in this section there shall be a controversy which is wholly
between 'citizens of different States, and *which can be fully
determined as between them, then either one or more of the
defengants actually interested in such controversy may remove said suit into the Circuit Court of the United States for
the proper district. And where a suit is now pending, or may
be hereafter brought, in any state court, in which there is a
tontroversy between a citizen of the State, in which the suit
is brought and a citizen of another State, any defendant, being
such citizen of another State, may remove such suit into the
Circuit Court of the United States for the proper diqtrict, atany time before the trial thereof, when it shall be made to
appear to said Circuit Court that from prejudice or local influence he will not be able to obtain justice in such state court,
or in any other state couxt to which the said defendant ma
under the laws of the State, have the right, onaccount of such
prejudice or local influence, to remove said ause: Provided,_
That if it further appear that said suit can be fully and justly'
determined as to the other defendants in the state court, with-

COCHRAN v. MONTGOMERY COUNTY.
199 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

out being affected by such prejudice or local influence, and
that no party to the suit will be prejudiced by a separation
of the parties, said Circuit Court may direct the suit to be remanded, so far as relates to such other defendants, to the
state court, to be proceeded with therein."
Section 3 of the act provides that, under the first three clauses
of section 2, the petition for removal must be filed in the state
court at the time or any time before the defendant is required,
by the laws of the State or the rule of the state court in which
such suit is brought, to answer or plead to the declaration or
complaint.
In Smith v. 'Rines, 2 Sumn. 338, MK. Justice Story held that
under the judiciary act of 1789 such cases were only liable
to removal from a state to the Circuit Court "as might, under
the law, or at all events under the Constitution, have been
brought before the Circuit Court by original process." And
Mr. Justice Washington in Beardsley v. Torrey, 4 Wash. C. C.
286, and Mr. Justice Thompson in Ward v. Arredondo, 1 Paine,
410, expressed views to the same effect. In Gaines v. Fuentes,
92 U. S. 10, it was ruled that this was otherwise under the act
of March 2, 1867.
But the act of 1887 restored the rule of 1789, and, as we
have heretofore decided, those suits only can be removed of
which the Circuit Courts are given original jurisdiction. Mexican National Railroad Company v. Davidson, 157 U. S. 201;
Tennessee v. Union and Planters' Bank, 152 U. S. 454, 461.
And on the face of this record it is apparent that the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court, as invoked, could only rest on diversity of citizenship. The case does not come within any
other ground of original jurisdiction as defined by the act.
It is true that one of the defendants was a citizen of the same
State as the c6uuty of Montgomery, but the learned judge
below hIId tat where removal was sought on the ground of
prejuiicAorpcal influence, the right of removal was not affected
by anotheren ant and plaintiff being citizens of, the same
'Sat'e as t!id% where the suit was brought. 116 Fed. Rep. 985.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

199 U. S.

Whether that view was correct or not jurisdiction was
exercised as resting on diversity of citizenship, that is, as between the plaintiff and the removing defendant.
But while the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals
must be regarded as final and the writ of error dismissed, we
deem it our duty to grant the writ of certiorari, to which the
record on the writ of error may stand as a return, in order to
pass upon the question of the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court,
in the exercise of one of the essential functions of this court,
the determination of the jurisdiction of the courts below.
Defiance Water Co. v. Defiance, 191 U. S. 184, 195.
In applications for removal under clauses one and two of
section two of the act of 1887, all the defendants were required
to join in the application. Chicago, R. I. & P. R. Co. v.
Martin, 178 U. S. 245; Gableman v. Peoria, D. & E. R. Co.,
179 U. S. 335. Under clause three, relating to cases of separable
controversy, and clause four, all the defendants need not join.
But the fourth clause, treating of removals because of prejudice
or local influence, does not furnish a separate and independent
ground of Federal jurisdiction, and, as Mr. Justice Bradley
said in In re Pennsylvania Company, 137 U. S.451, 456, "describes only a special'case comprised in the preceding clauses."
In that cAse we referred to the opinion of Mr. Justice Harlan
in Malone v. Richmond -& Danville Railroad Company, 35
Fed. Rep. 625, as expressing the correct view of the law. The
question was vwhether the pecuniary limit was-applicable under
the fourth clause, nd that involved consideration of the other
clauses. Mr. Juste Harlan there said:
'It is clear from the above clauses, construing them all
together, that the right of removal, at any time before trial,
on the ground of prejudice or local influence, is restricted, by
the act of 1887, to suits in which there is a controversy between
citizens of different States; also that such right, in suits of that
character, involving no Federal question, now belongs only to
the defendant who is a citizen, or to the defendants who are
citizens, of a State other than that in which the suit is brought.

COCHRAN v. MONTGOMERY COUNTY.
199 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

And I think it is equally clear that the right of removal on the
ground of prejudice or local influence does not exist in any case
unless the sum or value of the matter in dispute exceeds $2,000,
exclusive of interest and costs. The clauses of the second
section of the act of 1887, defining the different kinds of suits
that may be removed, preserve the same element of the value
of the matter in dispute as is found in the first section, relating
to the original jurisdiction of Circuit Courts. This is done by
the provision giving the right of removal in suits 'of which the
Circuit Courts of the United States are given original jurisdiction by the preceding [first] section.'
9"
The subsequent clause, relating to prejudice
and local influence, does not describe a new class of suits,
removable from the state courts,. but only specifies a distinct
ground for removing one class of the suits previously defined,
namely, that class in which there is a controversy between
citizens of different States. And that ground the defendant
is at liberty to set up 'at any time before the trial;' whereas,
by the third section of the act, the right to remove, upon any
other ground, will be lost, if not exercised at the time or before 'the defendant is required by the laws of the State or
the rule of the state court' in which the suit is brought 'to
answer or plead to the declaration or complaint of the plaintiff.' The clause prescribing prejudice or local influence as
groundjor the removal of a suit 'in which there-is a controversy between a citizen of the State in which the suit is brought
and a citizen of another State,' cannot well be separated, in
the process of interpretation, from the preceding clause in the
same section, which, by referring to the first section, requires
as a condition of the removal of a suit because of diverse citizenship-the only kind of suit in which the existence of prejudice
or local influence, as affecting the right of removal, is of any
consequence-that the matter in dispute shall exceed in value
$2,000, exclusive of interest and costs."
The first subdivision of section 69 of the Revised, Statutes
was a reenactment of the twelfth section of the judiciary act;

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

199 U. S.

the second subdivision, of the act of July 27, 1866; and the
third subdivision, of the act of March 2, 1867. The act of
March 3, 1875, repealed the first and second subdivisions, but
left subdivision three unrepealed. Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company v. Bates, 119 U. S.464, 467. The act of March 3,
1887, repealed the act of 1867, or subdivision three of section 639. Fisk v. Henarie, 142 U. S. 467. In describing the
class of suits removable on the ground of prejudice or local
influence, the language in the act of 1887 is identical with that
of 1867, that is, suits "in which there is a controversy between
a citizen of the State in which the suit is brought and a citizen
of another State." The settled construction of the language
of the act of 1867 and of the Revised Statutes was that the
clause included cases wherein the controversy was between
citizens of the State wherein the suit was pending and citizens
of other States. The use of the identical language in the act
of 1887-1888 showed that Congress intended the same construction should be applied, although under the act of 1887
the plaintiff could not remove a cause, while any defendant,
being a citizen of a State other than that in which the suit 'was
pending, might.
The Circuit Court was of opinion that the words "any defendant, being such citizen of another State, may remove,"
etc., implied that there might be defendants who were not
citizens of another State and yet the cause be removable, but
while the words, standing alone, are susceptible of that construction, we think it was not intended to chanlge the meaning
of the terms as previously determined (by the decisions under
the act of 1789, and so on down), and that the class of cases
removable on the ground of prejudice and local influence is
confined to those in which there is a controversy between a
citizen or citizens of the State in which the suit is pending
and a'citizen or citizens Of another or other States, and that
the clause did not include cases wherein the controversy was
partly between citizens of the same State. To hold otherwise
brings th language of the clause into conflict with the rule

COCHRAN v. MONTGOMERY COUNTY.
199 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

that a suit to be removable must be within the original jurisdiction of the Circuit Court, departs from the settled former
construction, and ignores the main purpose of the act of 1887,
which was to restrict the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court.
Hanrick v. Hanrick, 153 U. S. 192; Anderson v. Bowers, 43
Fed. Rep. 321; Moon on the Removal of Causes, § 189 and
notes.
And there does not. seem to be any escape from this conclusion in view of the provision of the first section of the act
of 1887, that when the jurisdiction is founded solely on diversity of citizenship, suit can be brought "only in the district of the plaintiff or the defendant."
If brought in the district of the plaintiff or plaintiffs, the
defendant or defendants (the singular embraces the plural)
must necessarily be a citizen or citizens of another State than
that of plaintiff or plaintiffs. If brought in the district of defendant or defendants no removal can be had, because it is
only defendants who are "non-residents" who can remove
under clause two, or under clause four, prejudice or local influence not being an independent ground of jurisdiction. But
in order that a defendant entitled to remove might not be cut
off from the exercise of that right by his co-defendants declining to join in the application, the fourth clause provided that
"any defendant" might remove, and out of abundant caution
the words were added, "being such citizen of another State,"
apparently to prevent misconstruction of the words "any
defendant," in possible enlargement of the jurisdiction.
The main purpose of the act of 1887 was, as has been repeatedly said, to restrict the jurisdiction, and this was largely
accomplished in the matter of removals by withholding the
right from plaintiffs and only according it to defendants when
sued in plaintiffs' district.
In the present case suit was brought in the plaintiffs' State
againft Cochran, a citizen of the samb State, who was a necessary party, and the Surety Company, a citizen of Maryland.
It could not have been brought in the Circuit Court for the
VOL..cxcIx 0 18

OCTOBEI

TERM, 1905.

Statement of the Case.

199 U. S.

Middle District of Alabama. Sweeney v. Carter Oil Company,
ante, p. 252.
And this being so, the case was improvidently removed and
should have been remanded.
As the removal was made on the application of the Surety
Company, that company must pay the costs of this court and
of the Circuit Court.
Writ of error dismissed; certiorari granted, record on writ of
error to stand as return to certiorari;judgment reversed and
cause remanded to Circuit Court with a direction to remand
to the state court; costs of this court and of thie Circuit Court
to be paid by the Fidelity and Deposit Company.

FRENCH v. TAYLOR.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF WASHINGTON.
No. 57.

Argued November 8, 1905.-Decided November 27, 1905.

Where the validity of a state revenue statute itself is not drawn in question, but plaintiff in error contends that he was denied due process of
law because state officers acting thereunder did not fully comply with
the statute, only questions of local law and fact are involved and the
determination of the state court is not reviewable on writ of error by
this court.
It is too late to raise Federal questions on petition for rehearing to the
highest court of the State unless the petition is entertained and the point
passed on.

Tuis was a suit to quiet title to certain real estate, brought
in the Superior Court of King County, Washington, by Sarah
Woodward and Sarah Woodward as executrix of Henry S.
W\oodward, against 11. C. Taylor and others. Sarah Woodward resigned her letters as executrix and John H. McGraw
was appointed administrator with the will annexed, and there-

upon was made a co-plaintiff.

The Superior Court entered

