ECLIPSE BICYCLE COMPANY v. FARROW.
i99 U. S.

581

Syllabus.

155 U" S. 396, 403; In re New York &c. Steamship Company,
155 U. $. 523, 531.
By his answer Alexander claimed to be the owner of the property, and alleged a want of jurisdiction on the part of the Justice to determine the question of ownership in a proceeding for
forcible entry and detainer. The Justice decided against him.
Under such circumstances he should have taken an appeal to
the District Court under section 3358 of the New Mexican code,
which provides that "An appeal shall be allowed to the District Court in all cases wherein judgment may be hereafter rendered in forcible entry and unlawful detainer, or both." No
reason is apparent why this appeal was not taken.
The fact that the judgment may have been void will not prevent its reversal upon appeal, Capron v. Van Noorden, 2
Cranch, 126; Kempe's Lessee v. Kennedy, 5 Cranch, 173; Dred
Scott v. Sandford, 19 How. 393, 473, 518, 566; M. C. & L. M.
Ry. Co. V. Swan, 111 U. S. 379, 382; Mexican &c. R. R. Co. v.
Davidson, 157 U. S. 201, 208; Jordan v. Dennis, 7 Met. 590;
Waters N. Randall, 8 Met. 132; Striker v. Mott, 6 Wend. 465;
Langford v. Monteith, 102 U. S. 145, nor does the requirement
of a bond obviate the necessity of an appeal. It is one of the
ordinary incidents of litigation.
Affirmed.

ECLIPSE BICYCLE COMPANY v. FARROW.
APPEALS

FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF -THE

DISTRICT OF

COLUMBIA.
Nos. 40, 217.

Argued November 3, 1905.-Decided December 18, 1905.

A bicycle ranufacturing company made a contract with an inventor to use,
obtain patents for, and exploit the sale of, improved coaster brakes, for
which applications for patents were then pending, the company to be relieved from payment of royalties in case of adverse action of the patent
office. Subsequently the company having acquired and used other inven-

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

199 U. S.

tions the inventor brought suit alleging neglect to use diligence in obtaining the patents for, or pushing the sales of, his brakes and demanding
royalties on all coaster brakes used and sold by the company. Held that:
Although the company might not be able to obtain the patents as expected
it could not rescind the contract without returning what it had received
under it and it must pay royalties on any devices used by it embodying
the invention unless and until final adverse action by the patent office.
That as the contract was not made on the footing that no such brakes had
ever been invented the inventor could not claim the entire field and was
not entitled to royalties on other brakes used by the company radically
different from his both in construction and operation and which could not
have been an infringement of any patent contemplated by the contract.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. A. S. Worthington and Mr. H. L. Osgood, with whom
Mr. C. Schuyler Davis and Mr. D. S. Mackall were on the brief
for appellant.
Mr. Henry M. Earle and Mr. John C. Gittings for appellee.
MR.JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from a final decree upon a bill for an account. As there was a technical doubt whether the decree first
appealed from was final, a second decree was entered and a
second appeal taken, but no point is made upon that matter here. There is one question and one case. See 16 App.
D. C. 468; 18 App. D. C. 101.
The bill was brought upon an agreement under seal, dated
June 5, 1897, of which the material portions are as follows. It
begins with a recital that Farrow has invented certain improvements in bicycles, etc., pertaining to automatic mechanism for
coasting and braking, for which he has made two numbered
applications for patents and intends to file additional ones, and
that the Eclipse Bicycle Company desires to acquire the entire
right and title "to said inventions as described in the above

ECLIPSE BICYCLE COMPANY v. FARROW.
199 U. S.

583

Opinion of the Court.

identified applications, and any letters patent that may be issued thereon," and to all improvements thatmay be made by
Farrow upon the same. Then Farrow conveys to the company
"his entire right, title and interest in and to the inventions in
bicycles, as fully described and claimed in the applications
above referred to," letters patent and improvements as above.
The company is to pay $2,500 within certain short times as
advanced payments on royalties, and to pay royalties, as specified, "on all the devices made or sold embodying the invention
above referred to," and to thaut end to make returns of the
number of devices sold. The title is to revert to Farrow in
default of payment for more than sixty days. Arrangements
are made for taking out foreign patents, and then the company
agrees to "defend said invention against piracy or infringement," and to "use due business diligence in the hanufacture
and sale of the devices embodied in said letters patent, and
push the sale by all proper and legitimate enterprise." Then
follow further agreements as to taking out foreign patents, and
finally it is covenanted that in case Farrow "for any reason
fails to procure letters patent of the United States for the improvements above referred to, the [company] shall be relieved
from the payment of all royalties from and after the date of
final adverse action of the Patent Office on the application or
applications for patents for said improvements."
The invention described was an automatic brake and coaster, one of the
applications being fur a hub brake, the other for a tire brake,
both operating on the rear wheel by back pedalling.
The bill alleges that soon after this agreement was made one
Morrow, the defendant's general manager, applied for a patent
on a device in effect the same as Farrow's, accomplishing the
same result a-ld being a mere mechanical equivalent for the
same, that he forthwith assigned a half interest to the company's president, and that the company began to manufacture
and sell the Morrow device. It further charges a failure to use
the diligence which the company covenanted to use in pushing
the Farrow device and a sale of subhituted things. A supple-

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

199 U. S.

mental bill alleges that, upon the consummation of the sale of
Farrow's interest, the company caused an assignment to it of
Farrow's application to be made, and a power of attorney to
be executed by Farrow to the company's attorney for the purpose of permitting the company to prosecute applications for
patents, after which, under its rules, the Patent Office would
recognize Farrow no more. It charges that the company thus
having the whole matter in its own hands and power is failing
to prosecute the applications, and will allow the claims to be
rejected or lapse upon points easily obviated, in furtherance of
a scheme to substitute the reproduction. of Farrow's device, and
thus, it is implied, to get rid of the contract.
The answer does not need to be stated. It admits the contract, but denies the plaintiff's case, charges him with fraud
and sets up that his invention had been anticipated by a patent
to Stover and Hance and otherwise, and that it was impossible
to obtain a patent for it and that, therefore, the defendant was
not bound by the contract further. The case went to a hearing
and a decree was made to the effect that the plaintiff was entitled to royalties upon all the devices manufactured by the defendant embodying the inventions mentioned in the plaintiff's
applications, and specifically upon devices manufactured under
the patent to Morrow, and the cause was referred to an auditor
to state the account. This decree was affirmed by the Court
of Appeals for the District. 16 App. D. C. 468. It was found
that one of Farrow's applications was placed in interference
after its patentability had been allowed, and thereupon was
abandoned, his acquiescence not appearing, and that the other
was not contested, and, after some modification, was allowed
and authorized to go to an issue, but was permitted by the company to lapse. The purchase by the company of the Stover
and Hance patent and an interest in the Morrow patent and
the adoption of the latter for the purpose of evading the contract with Farrow were found.
After the decree which we have mentioned, the defendant
moved for leave to amend its answer, and to introduce new tes-

ECLIPSE BICYCLE COMPANY v. FARROW.
199 U. S.

585

Opinion of the Court.

timony, on the grounds that the plaintiff knew that the broad
claim for a coasting device in combination with a back-pedalling
device had been anticipated by the Stover and Hance patent
when hemade the contract, that the defendant had been under
a misapprehension as to the scope of the contract and of the
suit until the former decision, and that it now had learned that
there were other patents which would defeat any broad claim
on the part of Farrow, etc. The motion was allowed by the
Supreme Court, but on a second special appeal the Court of Appeals held that the Supreme Court was not at liberty to allow
the motion after the decree directing an account had been affirmed by the Court of Appeals, until leave had been granted
by the latter, and also held that no sufficient grounds for an
amendment were shown, as no fraud on the plaintiff's part
was made out and it appeared that the company knew of the
Stover and Hance patent and sufficiently understood the situation when it made the contract, and as the company certainly knew the facts when its former answer was filed. 18
App. D. C. 101. We are satisfied that the company suffered
no injustice by this decision, and, in view of our conclusion
upon the merits, we need say no more about it.
The case went to an account, and before the auditor Farrow
sought to make the defendant account not only for the Morrow
device heretofore mentioned, but also for another, known as
Exhibit E 10, which the company had been manufacturing
since the bill was filed. The auditor rejected this claim on the
ground that an important part of the Farrow device was not
used in E 10, that there was a radical difference in both construction and operation, and that one could not be called the
mechanical equivalent of the other. On exceptions the auditor
was directed by the Supreme Court to include royalties on E 10
in his account. Accordingly he made a further report, which,
after some subordinate modifications, was confirmed by the
Supreme Court and by the Court of Appeals, 23 App. D. C. 411,
and the defendant ordered Lo pay the amount found due. From
this decree the defendant appeals. it takes the technical ob-

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

199 U. S.

jection that E 10 was not within the scope of the bill or the
reference, and the substantial one that it was not within the
scope of the contract. There is also an objection to the allowance of interest, because it was not claimed in the erlier hearing, but, as the defendant says, was waived.
We do not perceive any sufficient reason for saying that the
plaintiff was estopped to claim interest. As to the technical
objections to including E 10 in the account, the bill charges
that a large number of devices similar to Farrow's are being
manufactured and sold by the defendant, avers the plaintiff's
ignorance of details and want of means of learning them except
by discovery, and prays for disclosure of the number of both
the devices manufactured, sold and held by the defendant.
The word "both" means in the context the Farrow brake and
the Farrow coaster, and the disclosure obviously is intended to
include substitutes. An account is prayed of the Farrow brakes
and of the device substituted by the defendant for the same.
This, we think, means not merely the specific Morrow device
previously referred to, but any device the defendant might be
using, in view of the plaintiff's alleged ignorance, as is made
plainer by the fact that the bill- oes on to pray that any improvement or elaboration in the original device may be declared to have been made by the defendant for the benefit of
the parties to the contract. The decree directing an account
specifically mentions the first Morrow device it is true, but it
declares in general terms the rights of the plaintiff to royalties
upon all devices manufactured by the defendant and embodying the inventions mentioned in the contract, and directs an
account in accordance with the decree. We are of opinion that
these terms warranted the auditor in charging royalties upon
any device found to come within the contract, and we agree with
the Court of Appeals that the defendant had sufficient opportunity to contest the claim, and that therefore the objection is
purely formal. No special point is made of the fact that the
use was after the filing of the bill.
The real questions in the case are whether the first mentioned

ECLIPSE BICYCLE COMPANY v. FARROW.
199 U. S.

587

Opinion of the Court.

Morrow device and the subsequent E 10 fall within the scope
of the contract, and these questions depend more upon a careful
construction of that instrument than upon nice discriminations
between the patents that were or might have been issued. If
either of the contrivances used embodies the invention described in Farrow's applications, then the defendant is bound
to account for it by the express terms of its covenant, unless
the contract is at an end. It is argued that the contract is at
an end, that there was a total failure of consideration, because,
it is said, there was no invention disclosed by Farrow. In answer to this it is enough to say that, although patents were
refused upon some of his claims irrespective of any fault of the
defendant, others were allowed, and there was no such final adverse action of the Patent Office upon either application as a
whole, as to exonerate the defendant by the terms of the agreement which we have recited. An appreciable part of Farrow's
supposed invention was upheldand remained in the defendant's
hands. We are spared the necessity of considering how much,
or whether there was so considerable a failure of what was expected that it would have warranted a rescission of the contract
outside of its express terms, by the fact that the defendant still
keeps what was assigned to it. On February 15, 1898, it wrote
to Farrow that it could not get, a patent that was worth a pinch
of snuff, but so far from tendering a reconveyance, went on to
say that if the work which the company was turning out" holds
up all right we may be able to work your brake in with ours,
but as to this it is uncertain and we doubt it." Of course the
defendant could not rescind the contract without returning
what it had received under it. So the contract remained in
force. See United States v. Harvey Steel Co., 196 U. S. 310,
315, 316.
We come back to the construction of the contract. The
royalty is to be paid on the "invention above referred to."
The use of the word invention does not open the state of the
art and allow the defendant to meet the plaintiff's claim by
proving that he had invented nothing new. The royalty is to

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

199 U. S.

be paid on the invention described in the specified applications
-that is to say, on the contrivances there described-unless
and until there is final adverse action by the Patent Office.
That is the measure of the defendant's self-protection. It could
not have asked or been allowed more. For it took an assignment of Farrow's right, title and interest, took charge of his
applications and agreed to defend the invention against infringement, which of course involved maintaining its novelty
and patentability. It had all Farrow's interests in its hands
and it took the risk of their worth, except as against what the
Patent Office might do. It should be repeated that, so far as
the company made any device embodying Farrow's invention,
by the fair construction of its express covenant it was bound to
account, whether the manufacture was ostensibly Farrow's or
not, and it was not left merely to an action for such damages
as it could prove.
On the other hand, the contract was not made on the footing
that no coaster or no combination of coaster and brake ever
had been invented, and that the whole field belonged to Farrow.
Both parties knew something of the state of the art. The very
facts which show that they stood on an equal footing and that
the company was not deceived by Farrow, show that. The
contract shows the same thing on its face. It recites that Farrow has invented, not a mechanism for coasting and braking,
but an improvement pertaining to such mechanism. -It was a
contract having definite reference to the course of the Patent
Office, and was for the contents of the application already filed.
The application recognizes the existence of coasters. So that
the contract only embraces what the parties reasonably may
be understood .to have expected to be patented. Furthermore,
the 'provision for the cessation of payments on final adverse action must be applied to such claims as were rejected for want
of novelty, and after such rejection Farrow can make the defendant account only for the use of devices embodying what
remained of his claims. Obviously, also, the fact that, subject
to Lhe foregoing qualifications, the defendant took the risk of

ECLIPSE BICYCLE COMPANY v. FARROW.
199 U. S.

589

Opinion of the Court.

the value of Farrow's alleged invention, even when coupled
with its covenant to use due business diligence in pushing their
sale, did not preclude it from using any later invention, if one
were made which superseded Farrow's, and did not embody it.
Due business diligence would not require it to enter into a hopeless contest, and would not prevent it from avoiding such a
contest by purchase. In that event it would not be accountable to Farrow for royalties on the new machine. See Thorn
Wire Hedge Co. v. Washburn & Moen Manufacturing Co., 159
U. S. 423.
Applying this construction to the case, there is little difficulty
in arriving at our judgment. The defendant at the original
hearing, when the first Morrow device alone was in question,
offered no evidence to controvert that of the plaintiff's expert
that it was a palpable attempt to evade Farrow's rights. Its
argument upon that point before us depended largely upon the
contention that in view of the state of the art Farrow's claims
must be narrowly limited, and gave too little effect to the contract. It is evident from the latter as well as from the evidence
that a patent of a certain breadth was expected. The plaintiff,
on the other hand, did not chiefly rely upon maintaining that
the second device, E 10, would have been an infringement of
any patent that the contract can be taken to have contemplated, but depended mainly upon construing the contract as
binding the defendant to pay royaities if any other than Farrow's braking and coasting device were used. Therefore a summary statement of the nature of the different devices is all that
is necessary to complete our disposition of the case.
In Farrow's application and Morrow's first device there was
the same clutch mechanism on the rear wheel to permit coasting, and in both a contrivance for bringing a brake shoe to bear
upon the rear wheel by back pedalling. Farrow accomplished
this result by means of a hood pivoted to the bicycle frame,
embracing the upper run of the chain and having a pivoted
tooth or pawl. With the hood is connected a rod having the
brake shoe on its end. Back pedalling, causing the chain to

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

199 U. S.

slacken, lets it drop down upon the pawl and engaqe it, and
thereby pulls back the hood and rod and brings the brake shoe
to bear. By a second device, which the defendant is not in a
position to say was not patentable, the brake was applied by
the front instead of the rear sprocket wheel, which in case of
back pedalling engaged a lever and put on the brake. Morrow used the front sprocket wheel and made it apply a lever
with a brake shoe by means of a clutch. The details of the
means of application differ, but it cannot be doubted that assuming the novelty in Farrow's invention which the contract
assumes, Morrow, in the language of the contract, was embodying that invention. It covered the very thing which Farrow's
invention was expected and mainly relied on to supply. Taking into account the fact that the defendant did not make due
efforts to carry out his application, and that it certainly does
not appear that the Morrow device was so much, if at all, better
than Farrow's, that due business diligence did not require
the company still to push the latter, we are of opinion that
on this item it properly was held to account.
Farrow also embraced a hub brake in his applications. One
of his devices was to have the rear sprocket wheel connect with
the hub of the rear wheel by a screw clutch. When the sprocket
wheel was moving forward it was screwed into fixed connections with the hub. When the pedals were held fast, so as to
hold the sprocket wheel also fast through the medium of the
chain, the bicycle, continuing its motion, unscrewed the sprocket
wheel from the hub, disconnected it and coasted. Back pedalling brought a projection on a -spring in and attached at one
end to the rear sprocket and encircling the hub, into contact
with a fixed point on the frame, and thus caused the spring to
embrace the hub so long as pressure was applied. On the presure being released, the spring expanded and allowed the hub
to revolve loosely within it. In the coasting or braking, it will
be seen, the sprocket wheel was moved along its axis a short
distance outward from the rear wheel, thus giving a slant to the
chain. When a forward movement was resumed the tendency

ECLIPSE BICYCLE COMPANY v. FARROW.
199 U. S.

591

Opinion of the Court.

of the chain under the pressure upon it to get back into a
straight line was enough to carry the sprocket wheel inward
again upon its axis so as to lock it once more to the rear wheel
by the screw clutch. There are further details, but this simple
outline is enough for our purposes, which are only those of
broad comparison and contrast.
In Exhibit E 10 the characteristic lateral motion of the
sprocket wheel on the extension of the hub does not appear, and
neither Farrow's rotating brake spring nor his lever is used.
The engagements are effected by the movement of a clutch
ring with cam inclines, the sprocket wheel having co6perating
cam inclines. When the sprocket wheel moves forward the
latter cam inclines ride upon the former, force the clutch ring
inward and allow it to grasp the hub by friction and revolve
with it. On back pedalling the square shoulders of the cam
inclines engage, the clutch ring is moved backward with the
sprocket wheel, and cam inclines on the inner side of the ring
force a brake ring inward into a hollow conical brake shoe connected with the frame of the machine and having no rotary
movement. The brake shoe thus is forced inwardly into a
brake cup and effects the braking by its friction. In this case,
as in the former, a general indication of the nature of the de-.
vice is sufficient on the question whether the latter embodies
the former in the sense of the contract. This question is answered by the description which we have given. It is true that
in both the sprocket wheel is arranged to engage or disengage
with the main wheels of the machine, to allow coasting and to
brake by a reverse action of the rider's feet. But the methods
by which these results are accomplished are so different that it
is only on the assutmption that Farrow was in the broadest
sense a pioneer, and had covered the whole ground, or at least
that the contract put him in that position relatively to the defendant that the claim in respect of E 10 could be allowed. It
is not pretended that Farrow occupied such a position as an
inventor, and our construction of the contract does not give it
the supposed extent, The auditor found that there was a radi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

199 U. S.

cal difference between the contrivances in construction and
operation, and there has not been and could not be a finding to
the contrary. The ground on which the account was ordered
was that the contract required it, notwithstanding all the difference which the auditor found. We could not come to that
conclusion unless we at least were satisfied that it was inconsistent with due business diligence in pushing Farrow for the defendant to take up with E 10. The witnesses pointed out important superiorities in the latter, which we need not repeat, in
the way of avoiding clogging by mud or ice, in applicability to
a chainless machine, in more immediate and certain operation,
and in requiring a less continuous exercise of force. On these
points they were not contradicted. If, as we think, E 10 did
not embody Farrow's invention, and if the company reasonably
arrd honestly thought it a better thing, it had a right to do what
it did. We cannot say that it was not warranted in its preference of E 10, or that it was not honest in its chioice. It follows
that with regard to this the decree must be reversed.
There was evidence that the defendant had sold out to another company of a nearly similar name. It is enough to say
that it does not appear that the defendant is not still in existence, but on the contrary it wor' I seem that the corporation
still exists.
Decree reversed and case remanded with directions to reinstate
the auditor's first report so Jar as the same disallows a claim
in respect of E 10.

