OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Counsel for' Plaintiff in Error.

199 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE HOLMES. I 'do not gather from the statute or
from the decision of the Court of Appeals that the action of the
board of health was intended to be subject to judicial revision
as to its reasonableness. But whether it was or was not, I
agree that the statute, which in substance is older than the
Fourteenth Amendment, was not repealed or overthrown by
the adoption of that Amendment.

SJOLI v. DRESCHEL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MINNESOTA.
No. 79.

Submitted November 27, 1905.-Decided December 18, 1905.

1. The Northern Pacific Railroad Company could not acquire a vested interest in particular lands, within or without place limits, merely by filing
a map of general route and having the same approved by the Secretary
of the Interior, although upon the definite location of its line of toad and
the filing and acceptance of a map thereof in the office of the Commissioner
of the General Land Office, the lands within primary or place limits, not
theretofore reserved, sold, granted or otherwise disposed of and free from
preemption or other claims or rights, become segregated from the public
domain, and no rights in such place lands will attach in favor of any
settler or occupant, after definite location.
2. No rights to lands within indemnity limits will attach in favor of the
railroad company until after selections made by it with the approval of
the Secretary of the Interior.
3. Up to the time such approval is given, lands within indemnity limits,
although embraced by the company's list of selections, are subject to
be disposed of by the United States or to be settled upon and occupied
under the preemp~tion and homestead laws of the United States.
4. The Secretary of the Interior has no authority to withdraw from sale
or settlement lands within the indemnity limits which have not been
previously selected, with his approval, to supply deficiencies within the
place limits of the company's r~ad.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Moses E. Clapp for plaintiff in error.

SJOLI v. DRESCHEL.
199 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. W. E. Hale for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.

This case was tried upon a stipulation of facts. It involves
the title to the northeast quarter of the southeast quarter of
section five, township one hundred and thirty-three north, of
range forty-two, west of the fifth principal meridian, Minnesota,
which is situated opposite to and coterminous with a part of
the line of the Northern Pacific Railroad as definitely located
on the twenty-first day of November, 1871, and is within the
first indemnity limits of the grant of public lands made by the
act of Congress of July 2, 1864, in aid of the construction by
the Northern Pacific Railroad Company of a railroad and telegraph line from Lake Superior to Puget Sound, on the Pacific
Coast. 13 Stat. 365, c. 217.
The state court adjudged that plaintiff Sjoli was not entitled
to the land and that the defendant Dreschel, who asserts title
under the railroad company, was the owner.
From the numerous cases in this court relating to the above
act of July 2, 1864, the following propositions are to be deduced:
That the railroad company will not acquire a vested interest
in particular lands, within or without place limits, merely by
filing a map of general route and having the same approved by
the Secretary of the Interior, although upon the definite location
of its line of road and the filing and acceptance of a map thereof
in the office of the Commissioner of the General Land Office,
the lands within primary or place limits, not theretofore reserved, sold, granted or otherwise disposed of and free from
pre~mption or other claims or rights, become segregated from
the public domain, and no rights in such place lands will attach
in favor of a settler or occupant, who becomes such after definite location;
That no rights to lands within indemnity limits will attach
in favor of the railroad company until after selections made by
it with the approval of the Secretary of the Interior;

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

199 U. S.

That up to the time such approval is given, lands within indemnity limits, although embraced by the company's list of
selections, are subject to be disposed of by the United States
or to be settled upon and occupied under the preemption and
homestead laws of the United States; and,
That the Secretary of the Interior has no authority to withdraw from sale or settlement lands that are within indemnity
limits which have not been previously selected, with his approval, to supply deficiencies within the place limits of the
company's road.'
These principles, it would seem, make it easy to determine
the present case, the controlling facts in which are undisputed.
Let us see.
The plaintiff Sjoli, a qualified entryman, settled upon the
land in dispute in 1884, with the intention in good faith to perfect his title under the homestead laws. He grubbed and broke
about two and one-half acres, built. a house and stable thereon,
and moved into the house with his family on the fourth day of
October, 1884. He has lived upon the premises continuously
with his family ever since that time. At the time of the bringing of this a~tion he had broken about twenty-two acres, constructed 220 rods of fencing, and made improvements of the
value of $500. In 1889 he applied at the proper local land ofice to make entry of this land under the homestead laws. That
1Hewitt v. Schultz, 180 U. S. 139; Nelson v. Northern Pacific Railway,
188 U. S. 108; United States v. Northern Pacific Railroad Co., 152 U. S. 284,
296; Northern Pacific Railroad v. Sanders, 166 U. S. 620, 634, 635; Mcnotti
v. Dillon, 167 U. S. 703; United States v. Oregon & California Railroad, 176
U. S. 28, 42; St. Paul Railroad v. Northern Pacific Railroad, 139 U. S. 1, 5;
St. Paul, Sioux City &c. Railroad v. Winona &c. Railroad, 112 U. S. 720,
726; M., K. & T. Ry. Co. v. Kansas Pacific Ry., 97 U. S. 491, 501; Cedar
Rapids & M. R. R. Co. v. Herring, 110 U. '. 27; Grinnell v. Railroad Co.,
103 U. S. 739; Kansas Pacific R. R. Co. v. Atchison, Topeka & Santa FO,
112 U. S. 414; Wilcox i. Eastern Oregon Land Co., 176 U. S. 51; Northern
Pacific Railroad v. Miller, .7 L. D. 100; Northern Pacific R. R. v. Davis,
19 L. D. 87, 90; Spicer y. Northern Pacific R. R. Co., 10 L. D. 440, 443;
Northern Pacific R. R. Co. v. McCrimmon, 12 L. D. 554; Northern Pacific
1?.R. Co. v. Plumb, 16 L. D. 80.

SJOLI v.DRESCHEL.
199 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

application was rejected because the land was then erroneously
supposed to be within the granted limits of the St. Paul, Minneapolis and Manitoba Railroad Company. No appeal from
that order seems to have been taken. But Sjoli did not abandon the land or his claim upon it; for, in 1895 and relying upon
his settlement of 1884, he again applied at the proper land office
to enter the land under the homestead laws. His application
was resisted by the Northern. Pacific Railroad Company, and
upon a hearing before the local land office as between him and
that company, in March, 1895, the case was decided in his
favor. Subsequently, Sjoli having made his final proofs as required by the homestead laws, a patent was issued to him under date of June 18, 1901. His title rests upon that patent.
Dreschel's claim to the land arises out of a contract made by
him April 21, 1900, with the Northern Pacific Railway Company, by which that corporation agreed to sell to him the land
in question. The parties agree that that company succeeded to
whatever rights belonged to the Northern Pacific Railroad
Company.
If the railway company was not entitled to the land as between it and Sjoli-if it had no interest to sell-then the defendant Dreschel has no claim as between himself and the
plaintiff.
We have seen that Sjoli's settlement upon the land was in
1884, and his original, application to enter it was in 1889;
whereas, the railroad company made and filed its list of selections of lands within indemnity limits to supply alleged deficiencies in place limits in 1885, Sjoli being still in occupancy of
the land. But, as already stated, the result of the cases in this
court is that the railroad company did not acquire an interest
in any particular lands within the indemnity limits merely by
filing its lists of selections nor until its selections were approved
by the Secretary of the Interior.
In Musser v. McRae, 38 Minnesota, 409, 411, the Supreme
Court of Minnesota had occasion to construe the act of Congress granting lands in aid of the Chicago, St. Paul, Minneapolis

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

199 U. S.

and Omaha Railway Company. That act provided, among
other things, that "if, when the line of railroad should be definitely fixed, the United States have sold, or rights of preemption should have attached to any such granted sections or parts
thereof, then in lieu thereof, any agent to be appointed by the
Governor might select, subject to the approval of the Secretary
of the Interior, from the lands of the United States
so much land

.

.

.

as should be equal to those sold or pre-

empted," etc. Chief Justice Gilfillan, speaking for that court,
said: "As to the lands in place, the title attached upon the
definite location of the line of road. As soon as that was done,
the acts pointed out the- lands. As to those to be taken for
deficiencies, it was necessary that something more than fixing
the line of the road should be done; it was necessary that there
should be a selection, and an approval of such selection by the
Secretary of the Interior. Until that was done the title granted
did not attach to any lands outside of the 10-section [place]
limit." In the later case of Resser v. Carney, 52 Minnesota,
397, 401, referring to the grant of 1864 to the Northern Pacific
Railroad Company, the same court said: "The selection of indemnity lands, which was to be made 'under the direction of
the Secretary of the Interior,' (13 Stat. p. 367, ยง 3,) did not
become effectual, nor did the title pass from the United States,
at least until the selection was approved, or in some way sanctioned b the Secretary of the Interior," etc. These cases are
in accord .with the decisions of this court above cited.
Now, it is stipulated in this case that the Secretary of the
Interior has never approved the selection by the railroad company of the land here in question to supply deficiencies in place
limits. So that when Sjoli settled upon the land it waq, so far
as the railroad company was concerned, part of the unappropriated public lands open to settlqment under the homestead
laws. The railroad company had no direct legal interest in it.
The company's unapproved selections did not, therefore, stand
in the way of the lands being occupied and entered under the
homestead laws. The mere filing of its lists of seleqtions of in-

SJOLI" v. DRESCHEL.
199 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

demnity lands did not have the effect to exclude them from
occupancy under the pre*mption or homestead laws. On the
contrary, notwithstanding the filing of such lists, they remained
open, as before, to settlement or occupancy under those laws,
until the selections were formally approved by the Secretary of
the Interior and the lands withdrawn from settlement or sale.
No such approval ever occurred.
It results that the patent issued to Sjoli is evidence of the
better title and must prevail. His settlement upon the land,
with the intention to perfect his title-under the homestead laws,
was not in violation of the act of* 1864. On the contrary, he
thereby acquired, within the meaning of the act of 1864, a claim
upon the land which was perfected by the patent issued to him
by the United States. The learned state court erred in not so
holding and in adjudging that the Northern Pacific Railway
Company acquired an interest in the land immediately upon filing its list of selections, and that the defendant in error was the
owner of it. The relief asked by the plaintiff should have been
granted.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Minnesota is reversed
and the cause remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion. Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER

this case.

did not participate in the decision of

