CHESAPEAKE BEACH RY. v. WASHINGTON R. R. 247
199 U. S.

Syllabus.

McIntire v. Wood, 7 Cranch, 504; Kendall v. United States, 12
Pet. 524, 616; Cary v. Curtis, 3 How. 236, 245.
It follows that if the ordinance of 1901 impaired the original
contract between the water works and the city, it exceeded
its powers under the act of the legislature.
In its opinion the Supreme Court of Florida assumed, without deciding, that "the powers granted to the city were sufficient to authorize it to contract with the Water Company for
a public and private supply of water," and were also sufficient
to enable the city to insert clauses fixing the rates, and obligating the city to pay these rates for water used by it during
the entire contract period, and that the same powers existed
of fixing the rates for water supply to individuals.
Now, as the constitution only delegated to the legislature
the power to authorize the corporate authorities to reduce
rates, and the legislature delegated that power only in cases
where it did not impair the validity of any contract, it seems
to me clear that the city council of Tampa exceeded its authority in reducing rates protected by a contract, and must
be held to have impaired its obligation.

CHESAPEAKE BEACH RAILWAY COMPANY v. WASHINGTON, POTOMAC AND CHESAPEAKE RAILROAD
COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
No. 35.

Argued October 31, November 1, 1005.-Decided November 13, 1905.

In an action of ejectment in which the plaintiff relied upon a line of conveyances not going back to the original source of title coupled with
possession on the part of a grantor, held, on a discussion of the evidence
that the deeds sufficiently identified the land and that the plaintiff was
'entitled to go to the jury on the question of possession.
A deed by the trustee of a mortgage reciting a foreclosure decree is not
limited in its operation to the authority conferred by the decree but passes
the title of the trustee to the land which it purports to convey.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

199 i. S.

A reference in a declaration to tax sales of the land demanded will not be
construed to import that there is a title outstanding in third persons,
as against the allegation that the plaintiff was lawfully seized of the
premises, no evidence having been taken on the subject at the trial.
A conveyance of land in the District of Columbia made by a disseisee is
valid.
The title of a railroad company, as against a disseizor, to land conveyed
to the railroad by an earlier company, authorized to extend into the
District of Columbia, is not affected by the question whether the grantee
also had been authorized to go there.

THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. FredericD. McKenney, with whom Mr. John Spalding
Flannery was on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Charles Poe and Mr. Samuel A. Putman for defendant
in error.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action of ejectment in which the defendant in
error, the original plaintiff, recovered judgment for the land
in suit in the Supreme Court of the District. The judgment
was affirmed by the Court of Appeals, 23 App. D. C. 587, and
the case was brought here.
There was a motion to. dismiss upon the ground that it
affirmatively appears from the record that the matter in dispute, exclusive of costs, does not exceed the sum of five thousand dollars. But the reasonable inference from the record
is the other way, Harris v. Barber, 129 U. S. 366, and affidavits
are submitted which sustain the inference which we should
draw. Red River Cattle Co. v. Needham, 137 U. S. 632.
At the trial the defendant presented no evidence, but asked
the judge to direct a verdict in its favor, relying on somewhat
technical criticisms of the plaintiff's cage and saving its rights
by exceptions. We shall state such facts as are material.
The declaration contains nine counts, for nine parcels of
land, which the plaintiff (defendant in error) contends were

CHESAPEAKE BEACH RY. v. WASHINGTON R. R. 249
199 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

formerly part of the roadbed of the Southern Maryland Railroad Company and now are part of its own. The plaintiff
sought to prove its title by putting in deeds of each of these
parcels made to the last-named company in 1884 and evidence
of possession on the part of the same, together with subsequent deeds finally conveying the land to the plaintiff. Of
course this would be sufficient if made out. It is argued that
the description in the first deeds is too vague to identify the
land, and the argument is fortified by the testimony of a
surveyor that "the deed is not definite enough to place it on
the ground." But the deed was accompanied by plats to
which they referred and the same surveyor testified that "the
plats are as near identical [with the witness's survey of the
locus] as it is possible to make them," and more to the same
effect. It is evident that the former words refer to the descriptive language of the deeds alone, and that when the
descriptions are taken as they should be in connection with
the plats there is no difficulty with the deeds.
Next it is said that there was no evidence of possession on
the part of the Southern Maryland Railroad. But the same
surveyor testified that he knew the old Southern Maryland
Railroad tracks out there, and had known them for thirteen
years, and another surveyor testified that he was employed
by that company in laying out its roadbed in 1886, that he
remembered the line of this right of way, that the right of way
of the Southern Maryland was sixty-six feet wide, and that
the Chesapeake Beach Railway uses the right of way of the
old Southern Maryland Railroad clear to the District of Columbia line. Without going into further detail or answering
every minute criticism, we are of opinion that the judge was
right in leaving the question to the jury, and that the jury
were warranted in finding as they did. It is said that it must
appear that the possession, if any, of the Maryland company
was not abandoned. Sabariego v. Maverick, 124 U. S. 261.
But in a case like the present, at least, where the tracks of the
railroad were on the land and when the plaintiff exhibits a

OC'IOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

199 U. S.

series of deeds purporting to convey the property, the last one
to itself, it is to be presumed that possession followed the title
until the dispossession by the defendant took place. Lazarus
v. Phelps, 156 U. S. 202, 204, 205. See Bradshaw v. Ashley,
180 U. S. 59, 62, 66. The defendant did not hold for such a
length of time, free from dispute, that abandonment to it by
the plaintiff could be inferred. The suit was begun on January 13, 1902, and th6 possession of the defendant is not carried
back beyond 1898, if so far.
. The subsequent steps in the plaintiff's title are as follows:
A decree of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia,
foreclosing a mortgage recited to have been made by the
Southern Maryland Railroad, and to cover all its property then
or thereafter acquired; a sale and conveyance in pursuance
of the decree to one Gregory by a trustee appointed by the
court; a certificate of the incorporation of the Washington and
Potomac Railroad Company, reciting the foreclosure and sale
of all the property of the Southern Maryland Railroad and
incorporating Gregory and others to take over the railroad;
a conveyance of the property by Gregory to the new company,
and a mortgage by it of the same property to the Union Trust
Company of Philadelphia, both dated April 1, 1886, the date
of its incorporation; a certificate of the incorporation of the
plaintiff on July 24, 1901, reciting a decree of the United States
Circuit Court for the District of Maryland, which foreclosed
the last-named mortgage; reciting also a sale in pursuance of
the decree, and incorporating the purchaser and others to take
over the railroad; and finally a deed to the plaintiff, by the
Union Trust Company, the trustee of the mortgage last mentioned.
The main objection urged to the title is that, as the record
of the last foreclosure proceedings was not put in, it does not
appear that tht court attempted to foreclose property in the
District of Columbia, and that as the decree is recited, it must
be taken that the trustee was acting only by virtue of the
power which the decree conferred. But the trustee had the

CHESAPEAKE BEACH RY. v. WASHINGTON R. R. 251
99 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

legal title and purported to convey all the property which it
held. The source of its title was a conveyance to it by the
owner. The decree of the court only determined a foreclosure
and established the right of the trustee to convey without a
breach of trust. Even if it is not to be inferred that the decree
was as broad as it is recited to have been (see Muller v. Dows,
94 U. S. 444), the deed of the Union Trust Company conveyed
whatever title it had. Williams v. Jackson, 107 U. S. 478.
The suggestion that the instrument must be read as limiting
itself by pure implication to rights conferred by the decree,
and 'as excluding the only source of the grantor's title, does
not merit extended discussion, but it may be mentioned that
there is a covenant for future assurances, in general terms,
not limited to any particular source. It is observed in one of
the cases cited for the defendant that "the recital in the deed
cannot enlarge or control the words of the grant." Titcomb
v. Currier, 4 Cush. 591, 592. Still lesscan such a recital as
this be taken to eliminate the only title which the grantor held.
See further Brobst v. Brock, 10 Wall. 519; Bryan v. Brasius,
162 U. S. 415.
Other purely technical attempts to upset the
verdict, so
far as they need remark, may be disposed of in a few words.
For some unexplained reason the plaintiff, in four of its counts,
after describing the land and identifying it by the abovementioned conveyance to the Southern Maryland Railroad,
identified it further as conveyed by the Commissioners of the
District on a certain date, we presume on a tax sale. It was
objected that the latter allegation disclosed a title outstanding in third persons. No evidence was gone into upon the
subject. Of course the meaning of the count was not to
allege or admit such an outstanding title in some one else
when the main allegation was that the plaintiff "was lawfully
seized" at the date of the defendant's entry. We shall not
spend argument upon that.
The Southern Maryland road was authorized to extend into
the District of Columbia by act of Congress. Whether the

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

199 U. S.

later roads had authority or not would not affect the title to
the land.
The land seems to have been con-eyed to the defendant in
error after the plaintiff in error had taken possession, but that
is immaterial. In the District of Columbia a conveyance by
a disseisee is valid. Matthews v. Hevner, 2 App. D. C. 349,
357; Roberts v. Cooper, 20 How. 467, 483; Peck v. Heurich, 167
U. S. 624, 629, 630. A question is raised as to improvements,
but it was not raised below and is not open here.
Judgment affirmed.

SWEENEY v. CARTER OIL COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF WEST VIRGINIA.
No. 32.

Submitted October 30, 1905.-Decided November 27, 1905.

Where suit is brought in the district of defendant's residence by plaintiffs
who are citizens of other States than that of defendant, the Circuit Court
has jurisdiction although pliintiffs are not themselves citizens of the
same State.

THIS was an action of assumpsit brought in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Northern District of West
Virginia by, as described in the summons, "Francis B. Sweeney,
a resident in and citizen of the State of New York, and Halbert
J. Porterfield, a resident in and citizen of the State of Pennsylvania, partners doing business under the firm name and
style of Sweeney & Porterfield," against "Carter Oil Company,
a corporation created, organized and existing under and by
virtue of the laws of West Virginia, and as such a citizen
thereof," to recover damages in the sum of $20,000.
The declaration, filed May 4, 1903, followed the summons

