GARDNER v. MICHIGAN.
199 U. S.

Syllabus.

power over private property which is necessary for the orderly
exercise of all governments. It has always been held that
the legislature may make police regulations, although they
may interfere with the full enjoyment of private property,
and though no compensation is made." pp. 434, 435.
Without further discussion, we hold, for the reasons stated,
that the Circuit Court and Circuit Court of Appeals properly
refused to adjudge that these ordinances were invalid.
Other questions have been discussed by counsel, but 'they
do not require special notice at our hands. We are content
with the disposition made of them in the courts below.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.
MR.JUSTICE BREWER

and

MR.JUSTICE PECKHAM

dissented.

GARDNER v. MICHIGAN.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MICHIGAN.
No. 62.

Submitted November 9, 1905.-Decided November 27, 1905.

Reduction Co., v. Sanitary Works, ante, p. 306, followed as to the power
of municipal authorities to make suitable regulations for the disposition
of garbage, and that such regulations do not amount to a taking of private
property for public use without compensation within the meaning of the
Federal Constitution.
Property rights of individuals must be subordinated to the general good
and if the owner of garbage suffers any loss by its destruction he is compensated therefor in the common benefit secured by the regulation requiring all garbage to be destroyed.
Courts may take judicial notice of the effect of garbage on the public health.
The fact that a law relating to jury trials applicable to a particular county
in a State is different from the general law on that subject applicable to
all other counties is not necessarily a discrimination against the people

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

199 U. S.

of the county affected and a denial of the equal protection of the law,
and so held, in this case, it appearing that every person within the county
affected was accorded equal protection of the law prevailing there.

Tim facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Fred A. Baker for plaintiff in error.
Mr. T. E. Tarsney and Mr. John B. Corliss for defendant
in error.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN

delivered the opinion of the court.

This appeal raises for consideration the question whether a
certain ordinance of the city of Detroit, relating to the collection and disposition of garbage within that city, is repugnant
to the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the
United States.
By the ordinance in question it was made the duty of the
occupant or occupants of every dwelling house or other building in the city of Detroit to provide a suitable and watertight
box, or other vessel of a convenient size, to be handled by the
garbage collector, in which such occupant or occupants should
cause to be placed or deposited "all offal, garbage and refuse
animal and vegetable matter of the premises." Such occupants were required to keep the box or other vessel in the alley
in rear of their premises, or at a place on the premises most
accessible to the person collecting the garbage and offal; and
it was made unlawful to put anything but rqfuse animal and
vegetable matter in the vessel used for garbage. and offal. If
the vessel was placed in the alley it must be provided with a
tight cover, properly hinged, and located next to the lot line,
from which it should not project more than two feet into the
alley. Section 1.
The remaining sections of the ordinance are in these words:
" § 2. The word 'garbage' shall be held to include every
refuse accumulation of animal, fruit or vegetable matter that

GARDNER v. MICHIGAN.
199 U. S.

Opinion of the C )urt.

attends the preparation, use, cooking, dealing in or storing of
meat, fish, fowl, food, fruit or vegetables, including dead animals and condemned foods found within the city limits. All
garbage shall be collected in watertight closed metal boxes,
and such boxes shall be purified as often as the health officer
may direct, and shall have painted thereon the word 'Garbage.'
"§ 3. It is hereby made the duty of the contractor with the
city of Detroit for the collection and removal of garbage and
dead animals to collect and remove, in accordance with the
ordinances and contract of the city, all garbage, dead animals,
fish and refuse animal and vegetable matter found within the
city limits. No other person or party except the city contractor or its agents shall carry, convey or transport through
the streets, alleys or public places of the city of Detroit such
materials, and it shall be unlawful for any person to interfere
in any manner with the collection and disposal of such materials by the city contractor.
"§ 4. It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit, throw
or place any garbage, fish, dead animals or refuse animal or
vegetable matter in any avenue, alley, street. or other public
place within the city of Detroit; nor shall any person place
such materials upon any private property, whether owned by
such person or not, unless the same shall be enclosed in proper
vessels or boxes, as provided in section 1.
"§ 5. The collection and removal of garbage shall be under
the supervision of the board of health and it shall be the duty
of the board of health and police department, through their
proper officials and agents, to enforce the provisions of this
ordinance." Revised Ordinances of 1.895 as amended in 1901.
The city of Detroit rests the authority of its council to pass
this ordinance upon its charter, which contains the following
provisions: "The council shall have power to provide for the
preservation of the general health of the inhabitants of the city,
and to make regulations to secure the same; . . . toabate
or remove any nuisance; . . . to prohibit and prevent
any person from having on his premises any substance or thing

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

199 U. S.

that is unwholesome or nauseous; and to authorize the removal
The common council is also empowered to
.
thereof;
enact and provide, by appropriate ordinance, for the manner
of collecting, transporting, conveying and handling of garbage,
and all animal and vegetable matter and refuse in said city;
. . . and to require all persons in said city to dispose of the
same in the manner provided by said common council in said
ordinance for the removal and destruction thereof, and to impose and enforce appropriate penalties for any violation of
said ordinance." Sec. 43, chap. 7, par. 130, Charter of the
City.
By additional legislation in 1889 the Common Council was
given the power "to advertise for proposals and contract for
the removal, disposition and destruction of garbage and all
animal and vegetable refuse for a term of years."
In 1901 the city and1 the Detroit Sanitary Works, a corporation of Michigan, entered into a written agreement, by which
the latter undertook to collect, remove and dispose of all
garbage and dead animals within the limits of the city of
Detroit for the term of ten consecutive fiscal years, beginning
July 1, 1901. In consideration of the faithful performance
of the conditions. and specifications specified in the agreement
the city agreed to pay to the Sanitary Company the sum of
$515,000, in equal monthly instalments of $4,291.66 during
the continuance of the contract.
The agreement between the city and the Sanitary Works
contained, among others, the following provisions: "1. Garbage shall be understood to consist of all refuse animal or
vegetable matter, including dead animals, found within the
city limits, coming from private or public premises within the
city. 2. The time for making the collection of garbage and
dead animals shall be as follows, to wit: (a) Within and upon
the public markets daily. (b) Within the two-mile circle as
shown from the maps of the city, and from all hotels, restaurants, hospitals, slaughterhouses, and all other places where
animals, game or fowl are killed within the said city of Detroit,

GARDNER v. MICHIGAN.
199 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

collections daily. (c) Within all other portions of the city,
collections three times in each week, times as nearly equally
divided as possible. The work of collecting said garbage shall
be performed to the satisfaction and under the supervision of
the board of health. ((1) The board of health shall have authority to order daily collections outside of the two-mile circle
whenever 'in its judgment it is necessary. The health officer
shall also have authority to order extra collections to be made
at any time when necessary, the contractor shall be required
to cause such collections to be nade within three hours of the
time when such order is received by him. (e) Garbage shall
be collected in and transported through the streets of the city
in vehicles with watertight closed metal boxes. 3. All garbage must be taken at least'two miles outside the limits of the
city of Detroit and disposed of in such manner as to entail no
damage or claim against the.city of Detroit for such disposal.
4. It is expressly agreed that no -garbage or other refuse collected by said contractor shall be dumped into the Detroit
River or any of its tributaries, or into Lake Eric or any other
lake. The common council reserves the right to make such
rules "and regulations with reference to the collection of the
garbage as may from time to time be deemed necessary. No
employ6 of the contractor shall receive in the city of Detroit
less than one and fifty one-hundredths'dollars ($1.50) per day.
In case said second party shall fail to collect garbage or dead
animals in accordance with this contrae t, and such failure shall
continue for the period of twenty-four (24) hours after a
written notice from the -board of health of the city of Detroit, then, and in such case, said second party shall be liable
to and shall pay to the said party of the first part the penalty of two dollars ($2.00) for each an(1 every such failure so
to do."
Upon the complaint of an agent of the Sanitary Works,
Gardner, the plaintiff in error, was arrested by warrant issued
out of the Recorder's Court of Detroit, charged with having
violated the above ordinance by unlawfully and willfully carry-

OCTOBER TERM, .1905.
Opinion of the Court.

199 U. S.

ing, conveying and transporting garbage through the streets
and alleys of Detroit, he not being the city contractor or its
agent.
The defendant pleaded not guilty, was tried and found guilty
by a jury, and fined ten dollars.
There was no dispute at the trial as to the facts. It appeared that the defendant gathered and transported refuse
from the tables of hotels, of the kinds described in the statute
as garbage-acting in such matter, not for the city contractor, but for the person who bought such material from the
proprietors of the hotels. He violated the statute, and was
liable to the prescribed penalty, unless the ordinance was invalid. The judgment of conviction in the Recorder's Court
was affirmed by the Supreme Court of Michigan, all the judges
(except one who did not sit) concurring. 100 N. W. Rep.
126.
The contention of the accused at the trial was that the garbage or swill accumulated at hotels was property, and that
the third section of the ordinance directing the city contractor
to collect and remove it deprived the owner of his property
without compensation, and therefore was in violation of the
Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United
States.
This contention was overruled by the trial court, the judge
saying to the jury: "The defendant in this case was transporting what confessedly was garbage. It is well settled that no
one may claim damages because of enforced obedience to a
police regulation designed to secure and protect public health.,
It is manifest that, were individuals permitted to escape the
regulation fixed by the common council and dispose of garbage.
as they severally saw fit, all system in the collection and removal of refuse matter would be destroyed. Even if this garbage have some value for some such use as that to which the
respondent's employer put it, the feeding of hogs, the coirts
will not, at the expense of the public health, recognize that this
refuse matter, in its legal aspect, is property. No property

GARDNER v. MICHIGAN.
199 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

right has, therefore, been violated." The Supreme Court of
the State thus disposed of the question: "The defendant attacks the validity of the ordinance as it relates to garbage or
refuse from the tables of hotels. Similar ordinances have been
before the court and sustained in People v: Gordon, 81 Michigan, 306, and Grand Rapids v. De Vries, 123 Michigan, 570.
In these cases the question of whether there is a property right
in refuse was not raised in the, form in which it is here presented,
although in the case last cited it was quie. plainlyr implied that
the common council, in the exercise of the police power, had
the right to treat as a nuisance all such refuse as is unfit for
human food. The court may well take judicial notice that
table refuse when dumped into receptacles kept for that pu'pose will speedily ferment and emit noisome odors, calculated
to affect the public health. If in providing against such a
nuisance, the owner of such material suffers some slight loss,
the inconvenience or loss is presumed to be compensated in
the common benefit secured by regulatiQn. Horr and Burns,
Mun. Corp. § 220. The precise question involved in the present
case was considered in the well-reasoned opinion of Judge Shepard in Dupont v. District of Colunbia, 20 App. D. C. 477, and
the conclusion reached fully sustains the holding of the trial
judge."
Upon the general subject of the exercise of police powers
by municipalities proceeding under legislative sanction for the
protection of the public health, the views of this court have been
set forth in the case of California Reduction Co. v. Sanitary
Reduction Works, ante, p. 306, just decided, and what has been
said in the opinion in that case is, we think, decisive against
the present defendant. It is appropriate, however, to make
some observations in reference to certain features of the
present case.
The defendant insists that it is part of the common knowledge of the country that the refuse from kitchens, tables, hotels
and restaurants is valuable as food fGr swine, and is property
within the meaning of the constitutional provision which for-

OCTORER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

199 U. S.

bids the taking by any State of private property for public
use without compensation. Of course, all know that such a
use of refuse is not uncommon in some localities, although
modern investigation shows that a good deal may be said
against such a practice. It is believed by some that the feeding of garbage to swine produces an inferior quality of pork.
There is authority for the statement that in 1889 the Massachusetts Board of Health reported, as the result of its investigation, that garbage-fed hogs were afflicted with trichinosis
to the extent of thirteen per cent. In some States it is forbidden by statute to feed garbage to milch cows, and in some
cities it is forbidden to sell milk from garbage-fed cows. Chapin's Municipal Sanitation in the United States, 699, 700. We
do not, of course, express any opinion as to these matters, and
refer to them only in order to bring out the thought that the
question before the municipal authorities of Detroit was one
,in respect of which there was room for difference of views as
to what means were best for the protection of the public
health. Looking at the matter in a practical light, we are
unable to say that the means devised by the city council and
indicated by its action were plainly unreasonable or unnecessary or did not have a real, substantial relation to the prbtection of the public.
Touching the suggestion that garbage and refuse are valuable for the manufacture of merchantable grease and other
products it is sufficient, in view of what we have said in the
other case, to remark that it was a controlling obligation of the
city, which it could not properly ignore, to protect the health
of its people in all lawful ways having relation to that object;
and if, .n its judgment, fairly and reasonably exercised, the
presence of garbage and refuse in the city, on the premises of
householders and otherwise, would endanger the public health,
by causing the spread of disease, then it could rightfully require such garbage and refuse to be removed and disposed of,
even if it contained some elements of value. In such circumstances, the property rights of individuals in the noxious

GARDNER v. MICHIGAN.
199 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

materials described in the ordinance must be subordinated
to the general good. If it be said that the city might have
adequately guarded the public health and at the same time
saved the property rights of its owner on whose premises garbage and refuse were found, the answer is that the city evidently thought otherwise, and we cannot confidently say that
its constituted authorities went beyond the necessities of the
case and exceeded their proper functions when they passed
the ordinance in question. Those ordinances cannot, therefore, according to well-settled principles, be held to be wanting in the due process of iaw required by the Constitution.
The defendant further contends, as he contended in the
Supreme Court of the State, that the act of the Michigan legislature, creating the Board of Jury Commissioners for Wayne
County, in which the present trial occurred, denies to accused
persons and other litigants in that county the equal protection
of the laws. The ground of this contention is, that by the
general laws of the State the officers authorized to make and
return the jury list were elected by the people in their several
townships and in city wards, Const., Art. XI, '§ 1; Attorney
General v. Detroit, 29 Michigan, 108, and required that jurors
should be of those who are assessed on the assessment roll,
while by the Wayne County jury law of 1893, as amended in
1895, Pub. Acts, 1893, p. 337; Pub. Acts, 1895, p. 69, the jury
lists are made up and returned by a board of seven jury commissioners, appointed by the Governor, with the consent of
the Senate, and the names of persons to be returned need not
appear on the assessment rolls. This difference between the
general law relating to jury trials and the special law relating
to Wayne County, it is said, constitutes a discrimination against
the people of that county, and amounts to a denial to them of
the equal protection of the law. This view does not commend itself to our judgment. It is fully met and shown not
tobe sound, by the judgment in Missouri v. Lewis, 101 U. S.
22, 30, where Mr. Justice Bradley, speaking for the court, and
referring to the Fourteenth Amendment, said: "The last re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

199 U. S.

striction, as to the equal protection of the laws, is not violated
by any diversity in the jurisdiction of the several -courts as to
subject matter, amount, or finality of decision, if all persons
within the territorial limits of their respective jurisdictions
have an equal right, in like cases and under like circumstances,
to resort to them for redress. Each State has the right to
make political subdivisions of its territory for municipal purposes, and to regulate their local government. As respects
the administration of 'justice, it may establish one system of
courts for cities and another for rural districts, one system for
one portion of its territory and another system for another portion. Convenience, if not necessity, often requires this to be
done, and it would seriously interfere with the power of a
State to regulate its internal affairs to deny to it this right.
We think it is not denied or taken away by anything in the
Constitution of the United States, including the amendments
thereto.
"We might go still further, and say, with undoubted truth,
that there is nothing in the Constitution to prevent any State
from adopting any system of laws or judicature it sees fit for
all or any part of its territory. If the State of New York,
for example, should see fit to adopt the civil law and its method
of procedure for New York City and the surrounding counties,
and the common law and its methods of procedure for the
rest of the State, there is nothing in the Constitution of the
United States to prevent its doing so. This would not, of
itself, within the meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment, be.
a denial to any person of the equal protection of the laws.
If every person residing or being in either portion of the State
should be accorded the equal protection of the laws prevailing
there, he could not justly complain of a violation of the clause
referred to. For, as before said, it has respect to persons and
classes of persons. It means that no person or class of persons shall be denied the same protection of the laws which is
enjoyed by other persons or other classes in the same place
and under like circumstances."

HARTMAN v. BUTTERFIELD LUMBER CO.
199 U. S.

335

Statement of the Case.

Perceiving no error in the record touching any Federal
question, the judgment is
Affirmed.
and MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM dissent
from the opinion so far as it relates to the ordinances in question.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER

HARTMAN v. BUTTERFIELD LUMBER COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSISSIPPI.
No. 44. Argued November 7, 1905.-Decided November 27, 1905.
A homesteader, after obtaining his patent, conveyed to a lumber company
all the standing timber on the land and other rights therein pursuant to
a contract made prior to the issuing of the patent; subsequently he conveyed all his interest in the land to one who thereupon.claimed the timber
on the ground that the prior conveyance was void as violative of the land
laws and land policy of the United States. Held, that:
When the patent issues to a homesteader the full legal title passes to the
patentee and he may do with the land that which he sees fit.
An executed contract, voluntarily executed, without fraud or duress, is
binding and cannot be repudiated by the party who executed it, and one
whose interest in land is acquired subsequently to a conveyance thereof
by the owner has no higher rizht to question the conveyance than the
grantor had.
Although the grantee of the timber might not have been able to enforce
the contract because void as made in violation of the land laws of the
United States, the conveyance having been voluntarily made after the
issuing of the patent, could not be attacked on that ground by the grantor
or his subsequent grantee. Whether the Government itself could challenge the conveyance not decided.

IN December, 1892, Esau Harness received a patent from
the United States for 160 acres of land in Lincoln County,
Mississippi. On January 28, 1893, he conveyed to the Norwood and Butterfield Company all the pine timber on the land
"and a right of way through and across the land for roads,
trams or railroads 100 feet wide," This instrument was filed

