MERRITT v. BOWDOII

COLLEGE.

Statement of the Case.

MERRITT v. BOWDOIN COLLEGE.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF

THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 505. Submitted January 31, 1898. - Decided March 14, 1898.

An appeal does not lie to this court from the decision of a Circuit Court in
which, after overruling, on the facts, a plea by the defendant that the
action was not in truth a controversy between citizens of different States,
but solely between citizens of one State, to whom other parties were collusively added for the purpose of giving the Circuit Court jurisdiction,
the court then rendered a final judgment in favor of the plaintiffs on the
merits.
While such an issue involves the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court, it does
not involve or require, within the meaning of the act of Mlarch 3, 1891,
c. 517, either the construction or application of the Constitution.

THE plaintiffs in this suit, appellees here, are the President
and Trustees of Bowdoin College, a corporation of Maine,
and a large number of individuals who are citizens of States
other than California. They sued on behalf of themselves and
of all other beneficiaries under a certain deed of trust made and
entered into between Catharine M. Garcelon, of the first part,
and John A. Stanly and Stephen W. Purington, trustees, of
the second part. The defendants were James P. Merritt and
others, including Stanly and Purington. The general object
of the suit was to quiet the title of the plaintiffs to the real
estate conveyed by the above deed to Stanly and Purington,
and to secure an injunction restraining the other defendants
from violating certain alleged covenants, promises and agreements made with the grantor, and also the specific performance of such covenants, promises and agreements.
The bill contained these allegations as explanatory of the
reasons why the suit was not instituted by the trustees Stanly
and Purington:
"Your orators and oratrices allege and aver that they have
requested the said Stephen W. Purington and John A. Stanly,
as trustees as aforesaid, to institute such action, suit or proceedings against the defendants, the said James P. Merritt

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

and Frederick A. Merritt, and their confederates, as would be
necessary to quiet their title to the real estate so conveyed to
them in trust as aforesaid, or to secure a perpetual injunction
restraining the said James P. Merritt and Frederick A.
Merritt and each of them from violating their repeated covenants, promises and agreements made with the said Catharine
M. Garcelon, as is hereinbefore stated, and to secure a specific
performance of said covenants, promises and agreements, and
the said Purington and Stanly have declined to accede to this
request of your orators and oratrices; that by reason of such
refusal your orators and oratrices are compelled to institute
this suit, which your orators and oratrices do, not only in
their own behalf, but on behalf of all other beneficiaries of
said trust who may elect to join your orators and oratrices
herein."
The defendants James P. Merritt and Frederick A. Merritt
demurred to the bill of complaint, assigning as grounds of
demurrer that it appeared from the bill that the plaintiffs
were not entitled to the relief prayed against them; had not
by the bill made out any title to the relief prayed; that the
subject of the suit was not within the jurisdiction of a court
of equity; that the court below had no jurisdiction of the
suit; that it appeared from the bill that the same was exhibited against the defendants for several distinct and independent matters having no relation to each other or to one another,
and in which or in the greater part of which the defendants
demurring were not in any way interested or concerned; that
the bill was multifarious; that it appeared from the bill that
certain persons were not brought before the court who were
necessary and proper parties; and that the bill did not show
any matter of equity entitling the plaintiffs to the relief asked
against the defendants who demurred.
The demurrer was overruled, and the opinion of the court
thereon will be found in 54 Fed. Rep. 55.
The case was next heard on the application of the plaintiffs
to file a supplemental bill making Harry P. Merritt a party
defendant, and for an injunction to restrain the prosecution of
an action commenced by him in the Superior Court of Alameda

MERRITT v. BOWDOIN COLLEGE.
Statement of the Case.

County, California. Leave to file such a bill was given, and
a preliminary injunction was granted. 59 Fe. Rep. 6.
Subsequently the defendant James P. Merritt filed a plea, in
which it was stated that all the defendants to the bill (including the defendant Purington who had then recently died) were
at the time of the commencement of the action and ever since
had been citizens of California; that Stanly and Purington
"could not at any time bring or maintain in this court this
action nor any cause of action alleged in the said bill of complaint; that said last-named defendants for the purpose of
bringing and maintaining this action in this court, and to evade
the provisions of the Constitution of the United States and the
laws giving jurisdiction to this court, brought and maintained
this action in the names of the persons named in said bill of
complaint as complainants therein, and without any authority
thereto by or from said named complainants or any of them;
that said named complainants are only nominal parties to said
bill of complaint and in this action, and that said last-named
defendants John A. Stanly and Stephen W. Purington, claiming to be trustees as aforesaid, have always been in truth and
in fact the only real parties conplainant in said bill of complaint and in this action, and that they are only nominally
and colorably defendants in said bill and in this action;" that
"the said John A. Stanly and Stephen W. Purington, claiming
to be trustees as aforesaid, never were, nor was either of them
at any time, nor is the said John A. Stanly, as trustee or otherwise, now in truth or in fact, real or genuine parties defendant
or a real or genuine party defedant to said bill of complaint;
and that said John A. Stanly and Stephen W. Purington, claiming to be trustees as aforesaid, were, and each of them is named
in said bill of complaint as a party defendant thereto only
colorably and by false pretense, for the purpose of making
it falsely to appear that he is a party defendant thereto and in
truth the real and genuine party complainant therein; that
none of the parties named in said bill as complainants therein
ever was or is in truth or in fact complainants or a party
complainant to said bill of complaint or in this action."
The plea further averred -

OCTOBER TERAI, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

"That the persons named in said bill of complaint as complainants never did, and that none of said persons ever did, in
truth or in fact or in good faith, request the said Stephen W.
Purington and John A. Stanly, claiming to be the trustees
aforesaid, or in any capacity, or either of them, to institute any
suit, action or proceeding against the defendants, the said
James P. Merritt and Frederick A. Merritt, or either of them,
or any person or persons whatever, to quiet the title to real
estate, or any part thereof, alleged in the said bill of complaint
to have been conveyed to said Stephen W. Purington and John
A. Stanly in trust, or to secure an injunction restraining the
said James P. Merritt and Frederick A. Merritt, or either of
them, from violating what is alleged in said bill of complaint
to be their covenants, promises and agreements, alleged in said
bill to have been made by them with Catharine M. Garcelon,
or from violating any of said alleged covenants, promises or
agreements, or to secure a specific performance of said alleged
covenants, promises or agreements or any of them, or any action, suit or proceeding whatever; that said Stephen W. Purington and John A. Stanly, claiming to be trustees as aforesaid,
or in any capacity, never in truth or in fact or in good faith declined or refused to bring such or any action; that if the persons
or any of them named in said bill of complaint as complainants
therein ever did request said Stephen W. Purington and John
A. Stanly, claiming to be trustees as aforesaid, or either of
them, to institute any action, suit or proceeding whatever, or if
they or either of them ever declined or refused so to do, such request and such declination werd not and each of them was not
made honestly or in good faith, but at the fraudulent instance
and request of said Stephen W. Purington and John A. Stanly,
claiming to be trustees as aforesaid, and solely to enable said
Stephen W. Purington and John A. Stanly, claiming to be trustees as aforesaid, to feign and falsely pretend to refuse such
request, and thereupon to institute falsely fraudulently and prosecute in this court this action against this defendant.
"That in truth and in fact said bill of complaint was prepared and filed in this court by said Stephen W. Purington
and John A. Stanly, claiming to be trustees as aforesaid, and

MERRITT v. BOWDOIN COLLEGE.
Counsel -for Parties.

by them only, and the same and this action has ever since
been and is now being prosecuted by them only.
"That this action is not in truth or in fact a controversy
between citizens of different States. That this action is in
truth and in a fact a controversy solely between citizens of the
State of California, that is to say, until the death of said
Stephen W. Purington, between the said Stephen W. Purington and John A. Stanly, claiming to be trustees as aforesaid,
citizens of the State of California, and since his death, by said
John A. Stanly, claiming, to be such trustee, on the one side,
and the said Frederick A. Merritt and this defendant on the
other side. That this court has no jurisdiction of the said bill
of complaint and no jurisdiction of this cause."
The cause was heard on a motion of the defendant James P.
Merritt to dismiss the suit as a collusive one within the meaningof section five of the act of March 3, 1875. It was adjudged
that the plea in abatement was not sustained by the evidence,
and the motion to dismiss was consequently overruled. 63 Fed.
Rep. 213. A final decree .in favor of the plaintiffs was entered
June 18, 1896. From that decree an appeal was prosecuted
directly to this court. But on the 24th of May, 1897, the appeal
was dismissed upon the authority of Colvin v. Jacksonville,158
U. S.456; The Bayonne, 159 U. S.687, 692; and Chappell v.
United States, 160 U. S.499, 507, 508. .Merrittv. President &
Trustees of Bowdoin College, 167 U. S. 745. In the first of the
cases cited it was adjudged that when a case is brought here
directly from a Circuit Court of the United States upon the
ground that it involves the jurisdiction of that court, the certificate as to jurisdiction must be granted during the term at
which the judgment or decree is entered. The present appeal
was taken on the 17th of June, 1897, and the case is before the
court on a motion of appellees to dismiss the same for want of
jurisdiction in this court.
ir. William A. MauT, .Mr.Thomas H. ubbard, .Mr.
George N. Williams, Ar. Robert Y. fayne and Mr. .S.
Pillsburyfor the motion.
A.M. A. T. Britton, .Mir.A. B. Browne, opposing.

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

MR.JusTiCE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.

The object of the plea in abatement was to bring about a
dismissal of the suit under the fifth section of the act of
M arch 3, 1875, c. 137, 18 Stat. 470. That section provides for
the dismissal of a suit in a Circuit Court of the United States
if it shall appear to the satisfaction of the court at any time
that the parties to it "have been improperly or collusively
made or joined, either as plaintiffs or defendants, for the purpose of creating a case cognizable or removable under this
act."
By the act of March 3, 1891, c. 517, 26 Stat. 826, appeals or
writs of error may be taken from the District Courts or the
Circuit Courts directly to this court in certain cases, among
which are cases in which the "jurisdiction of the court is in
issue," and cases that involve "the construction or application
of the Constitution of the United States." The former appeal
was dismissed upon the ground that a direct appeal to this
court would not lie on an issue as to the jurisdiction of the
Circuit Court unless the question of jurisdiction was certified
during the term at which the final decree was rendered.
It is now sought to bring the case here by appeal directly
from the Circuit Court upon the ground that it involves the
"construction or application of the Constitution of the United
States." This position cannot be sustained. When it appears
that parties have been improperly or collusively made or
joined, either as plaintiffs or defendants, for the purpose of
creating a case cognizable or removable under the act of 1875,
then the Circuit Court is, within the meaning of the act of
1891, without jurisdiction to proceed. But the plea in this
case raised no question as to the constitutionality of the act
of 1875, and called for no order or judgment that would
require a construction or application of the Constitution,
although an allowance of the plea may have involved the
application of an act of Congress. The plea set out certain
facts which, if found to be true, required the dismissal of the
suit as one of which the court could not take cognizance under
the statute regulating the jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts of

BACKUS v. FORT STREET UNION DEPOT CO.

557

Syllabus.

the United States. While the issue involved the jurisdiction
of the Circuit Court, it did not involve or require, within the
meaning of the act of March 3, 1891, either the construction
or application of the Constitution.
For the reasons stated, the motion to dismiss the present
appeal is sustained, and the appeal is
.Dismis~ed.
The CllIF JusTIcE did not sit in this case nor participate in
its decision.

BACKUS v. FORT STREET UNION DEPOT
COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MICHIGAN.
No. 55. Argued January 17, 18, 1S98. -Decided March 7, 1898.
As the respondents, both at the trial in the Circuit Court of the State, and
in the subsequent proceedings on the certiorari in the Supreme Court
of the State, specifically set up and claimed rights under the Federal
Constitution which were denied, the jurisdiction of this court is not
open to doubt.
While this court may examine proceedings had in a state court, under state
authority, for the appropriation of private property to public purposes,
so far as to ipiquire whether that court prescribed any rule of law in
disregard of the owner's right to just compensation, it may not inquire
into matters which do not necessarily involve, in any substantial sense,
the Federal right alleged to have been denied.
The settled rule of this court in cases for the determination of the amount
of damages to be paid for private property condemned and taken for
public use, is that it accepts the construction placed by the Supreme
Court of the State upon its own constitution and statutes.
In case of such condemnation and taking, a State may authorize possession
to be taken prior to the final determination of the amount of compensation, provided adequate provision for compensation is made.
As to the court to determine the question, or the form of procedure, all
that is essential is that, in some appropriate way, before some properly
constituted tribunal, inquiry shall be made as to the amount of compensation; and when this has been provided for there is that due process
of law which is required by the Federal Constitution.

