OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Syllabus.

and quality. Charles Seymour, who had been familiar with,
the lands for twenty-five years as agent for their owner,
testified that the lands described in the plea were worth more,
than $2000 on account of their location and the quality of'
their timber, and were not to be adjudged by the general
price for mountain land in the vicinity.
It is unnecessary to quote authorities to show that, in estimating the market value of land, everything which gives it
intrinsic value is a proper element for consideration; not
only its present use but its capabilities are to be considered.
Even unimproved land lying at the foot of a mountain range
is obviously more valuable than similar lands less eligibly
situated.
Applying the law as heretofore stated by this court, in the
cases cited, that a suit cannot be properly dismissed by a
Circuit Court as not substantially involving a controversy
within its jurisdiction, unless the facts, when made to appear
on the record,' create a legal certainty of that conclusion, we
conclude that, in the present case, the want of jurisdiction
was not made clear, and that the evidence before that court
did not warrant a dismissal of the action for the want of
jurisdiction.
The judgment of the Circuit Court dismissing the action is
accordingly reversed, and the cause is remanded with directions to restore the judgment on the verdict.

RICHARDSON

v. LOUISVILLE AND
RAILROAD COMPANY.

NASHVILLE

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF FLORIDA.
No. 251.

Submitted December 18,1S97. -Decided

January17, 1898.

On a motion to dismiss for want of jurisdiction, this court being of opinion
that the ruling of the state court on the points upon which the case
turned there was obviously correct, does not feel constrained to retain
the case for further argument, and accordingly affirms the judgment.

RICHARDSON v. LOUISVILLE &c. RAILROAD.

129

Opinion of the Court.

THis was an action of ejectment brought in a state court
of Florida, to recover tracts of land at and near Pensacola,
alleged to have been granted to the person from whom the
plaintiff deraigned title, by the Spanish superintendent
general before the acquisition of Florida by the United
States. Judgment was entered for the defendants by the
trial court, which judgment was sustained by the Supreme
Court of the State. The grounds upon. which each of these
judgments was founded are briefly stated in the opinion of
the court, below. The defendant in error moved to dismiss
the case for want of jurisdiction. His motion was as follows:
"Comes the appellee, the Louisville and Nashville Railroad
Company, by its counsel of record, Gregory L. Smith, and
moves the court to dismiss the above entitled cause for want
of jurisdiction in the Supreme Court of the United States to
review the same, in that:
"It does not appear from the record that the questions relied
upon by the plaintiff in error, to give jurisdiction to this court,
were presented to the state courts for consideration at the
proper time and in the proper manner.
"The Supreme Court of Florida based its decision upon two
sufficient grounds, at least one of which does not involve, and
is not claimed to involve, a Federal question.
"No Federal question sufficient to give jurisdiction to this
court to review the decision of the state court is involved in
the cause or was decided by the Supreme Court of Florida."
.Mr. G'egory .. SmitA for the motion.
Mr. W. A. Blount opposing.
MAR. CHIEF JUSTiE

FULLER delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an action of ejectment brought by plaintiff in
error in the Circuit Court of Escambia County, Florida.
On the trial plaintiff offered in evidence an alleged Spanish
grant of several tracts from Don Alexander Ramirez, intendant of the army and superintendent general of Cuba and the
two Floridas, to Don Vicente Sebastian Pintado with proof of
VOL. CLX=-9

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

execution; and also deraignment of paper title from Pintado's
heirs to himself. No evidence was offered of actual prior
occupation. The property sued for was included in one of
the tracts, described as follows:
"The lands designated by the letter C are an extension or
tract of the bay of Pensacola, whose superficies of water is
equal to an area of 718i- arpents, superficial, occupying between the eastern point of the mouth of the creek of Casa
Blanca, commonly called Bayou Chico, and the western point
of the mouth of the rivulet or creek of Texar, commonly
called Bayou Texar, and a line drawn in the direction of
southeast of the needle, ninety-five perches of Paris, within
the sea, from the aforesaid first point, and the other line of
100 of said perches in length, counted from the second point
mentioned within the sea, also from the same point of southeast of the needle, which embraces the whole of the front
from the one to the other mouth of the creeks of Casa Blanca
and Texar, between which is the town of Pensacola, the
whole conforming and according to the plan annexed, made
for the greater clearness and understanding in which is represented the figure which the said land forms in the water and
the limits within the bay of Pensacola, being that part of
the land and beach which is found between the said two
points of the months of the mentioned creeks, the curve which
the shore of the water of the sea at the highest tide in calm
weather makes, and with the depth from the surface of the
water as far as ten feet English below the actual bottom, or
towards the centre of the earth, in the whole, the space
which the figure represented in the said plan 0 embraces, considering it as a solid, since it has these three dimensions of
longitude,' latitude and depth.

.

.

.

The whole in full

property and for the purpose of constructing wharves and
houses for bathing, reserving and saving not only the right
of his majesty, but also that of the public, at all times whenever it becomes convenient, and it be designed to construct
wharves with whatsoever funds, municipal or common, intending the exclusion only* with respect to particular individuals."

RICHARDSOi

v. LOUISVILLE &c. RAILROAD.

131

Opinion of the Court.

Defendants objected to the introduction of the grant upon
the following grounds, viz.:
"The grant so far as it relates to the locus in quo was a
mere license to Fintado to use the property in a particular
way and vested in him no sufficient title upon which to re-cover in ejectment.
"Because said grant, so far as it relates to the locus in quo,
was not an exclusive grant of the property occupied by the
defendants.
"Because said grant, so far as it relates to the locus in quo,
was not within the delegated authority of the officer who
attempted to grant the same.
"Because said grant, so far as it relates to the locus in quo,
is not one which was validated or recognized by the treaty
between the United States and Spain.
"Because it is not shown that Alexander Ramirez had the
power or authority to make said grant, so far as it related to
the locus in quo."
The trial court sustained defendants' objections and excluded the grant, and plaintiff excepted.
Thereupon a verdict was returned for defendants and judgment entered thereon, from which an appeal was taken to the
Supreme Court of the State. In that court the plaintiff in
error assigned but one error, to wit, "The refusal of the court
to admit in evidence the grant from Alexander Ramirez to Vicente S. Pintado."
The Supreme Court of Florida affirmed the judgment, and
held that the purpose of the grant "as to the water front
therein described was not to grant the land and water as such
within the described limits, but the right to use the same,
within such limits and to the depth stated belo* the surface
of the soil, for the purpose of constructing wharves and houses
for bathing, such right of use being to the exclusion of any
similar right of use in any other individuals, and subordinate
to the right of the King and the public to construct wharves
with municipal or common funds within such limits; also,
that while the King of Spain could have made such a grant
to Pintado, it would have been contrary to his laws then in

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court

force in West Florida and a case of special exception from
their effect, and that IRamirez had no authority to make the
grant, and it was void and vested no title in the grantee."
Richardson v. Sullivan's -Executors,20 Son. Rep. 815. And
see Sullivan v. Richardson, 33 Florida, 1, where the case is
fully considered on a prior appeal.
On affirming the judgment the Supreme Court entered an
order to the effect that, in holding the grant void, a claim
by plaintiff of a right, title or privilege under the treaty between the United States and Spain of February 22, 1819, had
been disposed of adversely to him; and a writ of error from
this court was allowed.
As before stated, defendants objected to the admission of
the grant in evidence on the grounds that, so far as it related
to the locus in quo, it "was a mere license to Pintado to use
the property in a particular way and vested in him no sufficient title on which to recover in ejectment;" and also that
the grant "was not within the delegated authority of the
officer who attempted to grant the same." Thus the construction of the grant and its validity were presented for consideration as distinct inquiries, and while the trial court assigned no
reasons for its action, the Supreme Court passed on both questions, and in its first opinion elaborately discussed them.
But in sustaining the ruling of the trial court in excluding
the alleged grant, the Supreme Court rested its decision on
the want of authority to make such a grant as it held this to
be. Therefore, the contention on behalf of plaintiff in error
is that this court necessarily has jurisdiction. As, however,
we entirely concur with the state court in the view that the
grant was not a grant of title, but of a mere license, easement
or right of use, and no evidence of prior possession was offered,
we need not consider whether the grant as thus correctly construed was valid or not, for, even if valid, the ruling on this
record could not have been other than it was. That ruling
was so obviously correct that we do not feel constrained to
retain the case for further argument. Chanute City v. Trader,
132 U. S. 210.
Judgment affirmed.

