WILLIS v. EASTERN TRUST AND BANKING CO.

295

Statement of the Case.

WILLIS v. EASTERN TRUST AND BANKING COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
No. 88. Submitted October 18, 169T. -Decided

February 21, 1698.

A summary process to recover possession of land, under. the landlord and
tenant act of the District of Columbia, (Rev. Stat. D. C. c. 19,) can be
maintained only when the conventional relation of landlord and tenant
exists or has existed between the parties; and cannot be maintained by
a mortgagee against his mortgagor in possession after breach of condition of the mortgage, although the mortgage contains a provision
that until default the mortgagor shall be permitted to possess and enjoy
the premises, and to take and use the rents and profits thereof, " in the
same manner, to the same extent, and with the same effect, as if this
deed had not been made."

THIS was a summary process to recover possession of land
in the city of Washington, under section 684 of the Revised
Statutes of the District of Columbia, commenced September
17, 1894, by complaint before a justice of the peace, by the
Eastern Trust and Banking Company against Edward M.
Willis and William G. Johnson, each of whom pleaded title
in Johnson; and the case was thereupon certified to the
Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.
In accordance with a general rule of that court, requiring
the plaintiff, in such a process, to file "a declaration making
demand for the possession of the premises, with a description
th6reof, as in ejectment," the plaintiff filed a declaration, demanding possession of the land, describing it by metes and
bounds, and alleging that the defendants entered thereon, and
unlawfully ejected the plaintiff therefrom, and unlawfully
detained the same from the plaintiff.
The parties submitted the case to the determination of the
court, without a jury, upon an agreed statement of facts, in
substance as follows:

The plaintiff was a corporation organized under a charter
granted by the legislature of the State of Maine, by which it

OCTOBER TERiMf, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

was located at the city of Bangor in the county of Penobscot,
and was authorized to establish agencies elsewhere in that
State. Johnson was sued as assignee of the American Ice
Company, a corporation of Maine, and doing business, at
Bangor and also at the city of Washington; and Willis was
sued as the tenant or lessee of Johnson.
On December 2, 1889, by an indenture, in the nature of a
mortgage, executed in Maine, and duly recorded in that State
and in the District of Columbia, the American Ice Company
conveyed to the Eastern Trust and Banking Company, "and
its successors, in trust, with full power of succession to and
enjoyment of the franchises of the corporation, all its real
estate, wharves, icehouses, boarding-house, stables, boilers, elevator and machinery, situated in the town of Hampden in
said county of Penobscot, and in the city of Washington in
the District of Columbia, together with all and singular the
privileges and appurtenances thereto belonging," to secure
the payment of bonds of the ice company to the amount of
$40,000, payable to the trust company at its office in Bangor
in equal instalments of $5000 each, in three, four, five, six,
seven, eight, nine and ten years after date, with interest.
The deed provided, among other things, as follows:
First. "Until default shall be made in the payment of the
principal or interest of said bonds or some of them, or in the
maintenance of insurance, or in the payment of taxes or assessments as herein provided, or until default shall be made in
respect to something by these presents required to be done by
said party of the first part, the American Ice Company shall
be permitted and suffered to possess, manage, develop, operate and enjoy the plant and property herein conveyed, and
intended so to be, and to take and use the income, rents, issues
and profits thereof, in the same manner, to the same extent,
and with the same effect, as if this deed had not been made."
Second. If the ice company shall pay the principal and interest, and do all other things required to be done on its part,
this deed shall be void. But if any default shall be made, and
shall continue for ninety days, the whole amount of the bonds,
principal and interest, shall be deemed immediately due and

WILLIS v. EASTERN TRUST AND BANKING CO.

297

Statement of the Case.

payable, "and it shall be lawful for the trustee to enter into
or upon the premises and property hereby granted, or intended
so to be, and to take possession of the whole or any part
thereof," and to sell and dispose of the same by public auction
in Bangor, giving notice, as therein required, in newspapers
published in Bangor and in Washington, and "in its own
name, or in the name of the American Ice Company, to make,
execute, acknowledge and deliver to the purchaser or purchasers at such sale a good and sufficient deed or deeds of
conveyance of the property so sold; and any sale made as
aforesaid shall be a perpetual bar, both at law and in equity,
against the American Ice Company, and all persons claiming
bk, through or under it, from claiming the property, rights,
interests and franchises so sold, or any interest therein." The
proceeds of the sale, after payment of expenses, shall be paid
over ratably to the bondholders, and the remainder, if any, to
the ice company.
Third. "The foregoing provision for a sale. under the power
aforesaid is cumulative with the ordinary remedy of foreclosure by entry or suit therefor; and the trustee hereunder
may, upon default being made as aforesaid, institute and carry
out proceedings to foreclose this mortgage or deed of trust, by
suit or otherwise, in such manner as may be authorized by law
for the foreclosure of mortgages of real estate. And the
American Ice Company hereby waives any and all rights of
sale or redemption, now or hereafter provided by the statutes
of Maine or of the United States."
The bonds were duly issued, as recited in the mortgage, and
were delivered to and held by purchasers for value in the
regular course of business. The first instalment of the bonds,
and all interest which fell due on or before December 1, 1892,
were paid. The rest of the bonded debt, and the interest
thereon, were never paid, and were due and payable at the
time of the commencement of this suit.
On October 13, 1893, the ice company executed to Johnson
an assignment of all its property for the benefit of its creditors,
under the act of Congress of February 24, 1893, c. 157. 27
Stat. 4 1. Johnson accepted the assignment, and assumed

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Counsel for Parties.

the duties of assignee; and as such, on January 29, 1894,
-executed to Willis a lease in writing of all the ice company's
real estate in the city of Washington, for one year from that
date, at a monthly rent of $130.
After the default which took place on December 1, 1893,
had continued more than ninety days, a majority of the bondholders directed the trust company to proceed in the execution
of the trust. In pursuance of that direction, and of the power
contained in the mortgage, the trust company advertised and
exposed the whole mortgaged property Tor sale by auction
at Bangor on May 4, 1894. The sale was adjourned until
September 8, 1894, when the property was sold, and was purchased by a committee of the bondholders, and for their benefit. The terms of the sale have not yet been complied with,
nor any deed made to the purchasers, it being understood and
agreed between them and the trustee, at the time of the sale,
that the trustee should first obtain possession of the property.
The trust company, on July 30, 1894, caused a thirty days'
notice to quit to be served on Johnson and on Willis; and on
September 17, 1894, commenced this suit to recover possession
of the property by causing a seven days' summons to be issued
to each of them by a justice of the peace of the District of
Columbia; and thereupon subsequent proceedings took place
as above stated.
Upon the agreed statement of facts, the Supreme Court of
the District of Columbia gave judgment for the defendants.
The plaintiff appealed to the Court of Appeals, which reversed
the judgment, and remanded the case with directions to enter
judgment for the plaintiff. 6 App. D. C. 375. The defendants
sued out a writ of error from this court, which was dismissed
for want of jurisdiction. - 167 U. S. 76. They then obtained
from this court this writ of certiorari to the Court of Appeals,
under the act of March 3, 1897, c. 390. 29 Stat. 692;. 167 U. S.
746.
_l. Calderon Carlisle and 21r. Wllriam G. Johnson for
Willis and Johnson.
.Mr.B

. Leighton for the Trust and Banking Company.

WILLIS v. EASTERN TRUST AND BANKING CO.

299

Opinion of the Court.

MR.JUSTICE GRAY, after stating the case, delivered the opin-

ion of the court.
Sections 680-691 of the Revised Statutes of the District of
Columbia, .contained in chapter 19, entitled "Landlord and
Tenant," are a reenactment of the act of Congress of July 4,
1864 , c. 243, entitled "An act to regulate proceedings in cases
between landlord and tenants in the District of Columbia."
13 Stat. 383.
By sections 681 and 682, (reenacting section 1 of the act of
1864,) "a tenancy at will shall not arise or be created without
an express contract or letting to that effect, and all occupation,
possession or holding of any messuage or real estate, without
express contract or lease, or by such contract or lease the terms
of which have expired, shall be deemed and held to be tenancies by sufferance;" and "all estates at will and sufferance
may be determined by a notice in writing to quit of thirty
days."
By section 684, (rebnacting section 2 of the act of 1864,)
"when forcible entry is made, or when a peaceable entry is
made and the possession unlawfully held by force, or when
possession is held without right, after the estate is determined
by the terms of the lease by its own limitation, or by notice
to quit, or otherwise," then, "on written complaint, on oath,
of the person entitled to the premises, to a justice of the peace,
charging such forcible entry or detainer of real estate, a summons may be issued to a proper officer, commanding the person complained of to appear and show cause why judgment.
should not be rendered against him."
The statute further provides as follows: The summons
shall be served at least seven days before the appearance of
the party complained of. If it appears by default, or upon
trial, that the plaintiff is entitled to the possession of the premises, he shall have judgment and execution for the possession
and costs; if the plaintiff fails to prove his right to possession,
the defendant shall have judgment and execution for his costs.
If, upon trial, the defendant pleads title in himself, or in
another person under whom he claims the premises, the case is

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

to be certified to the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, and each party is to recognize to the other, the defendant "to pay all intervening damages and costs and reasonable
intervening rent for the premises," and the plaintiff to enter
the suit and to pay all costs adjudged against him. An appeal
to the same court may be taken by either party against whom
judgment is rendered by the justice of the peace. Rev. Stat.
D. C. §§ 685-689; Act of July 4, 1861, c. 243, §§ 2-4; 13 Stat.
383, 384.
This plaintiff is the mortgagee of land in the District of
Columbia, under a deed of trust to secure the payment of certain bonds, in instalments payable in successive years, with
interest; and providing that until default the mortgagor shall
be permitted to possess and enjoy the property, and to take
and use the income, rents, issues and profits thereof, "in the
same manner, to the same extent and to the same effect, as if
this deed had not been made;" but that, if any default be
made, and be continued ninety days, the trustee may enter
upon the property, and sell the same by public auction, or may
pursue the ordinary remedy of foreclosure by entry or suit, as
authorized by law.
The mortgagor assigned the property to an assignee for
the benefit of creditors; the assignee made a lease in writing
thereof for a year at a monthly rent; default was made and
continued for ninety days; and the mortgagee, after giving
the assignee and his lessee thirty days' notice to quit, instituted this process against them to recover possession under
the landlord and tenant act of the District of Columbia.
The principal question presented by the record is whether,
in a case like this, where there has been neither forcible entry
nor detainer by force, a mortgagee entitled to possession
after condition broken is within the scope and effect of the
statute.
In Barber v. Barris,(1888) 6 Mackey, 586, affirmed by this
court in Har'is v. Barber, (1889) 129 U. S. 366, cited in
support of the judgment below, this question was not and
could not be decided. That case arose upon a writ of certiorari to a justice of the peace, by which his judgment for

WILLIS v. EASTERN TRUST AND BANKING CO.

301

Opinion of the Court.

possession under the statute was sought to be set aside upon
allegations that the plaintiff was a purchaser at a sale under
a mortgage, and the conventional relation of landlord and
tenant did not exist between the parties, and therefore the
justice of the peace had no jurisdiction. The ground ori which
both the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia and this
court declined to set aside the judgment of the justice of the
peace was, that the existence of the relation of landlord and
tenant between the parties, and the jurisdiction of the justice
of the peace over the case, were sufficiently shown by general
allegations in the complaint that the plaintiff was entitled to
the possession of the premises, and that they were detained
from him and held witho*ut right by the defendant, tenant
thereof by the sufferance of the plaintiff, and whose tenancy
and estate therein had been determined by thirty days' notice
to quit; and that these allegations could not be contradicted
upon that writ of certiorari. See 6 fackey, 5941, 595; 129
U. S. 368, 371.
In Jennings v. Webb, (1892) 20 D. C. 317, 39,2, in which it
was decided that one tenant in common could not maintain
this form of proceeding against his co-tenant, Justice Cox,
speaking for Justices Hagner and James, as well as for himself, said: "There seems to be a little misapprehension of the
nature of this proceeding. While our rule requires the plaintiff
to file a declaration, as in ejectment, that does not convert the
proceeding into an action of ejectment at all, in which the
plaintiff recovers upon the strength of his title. In this proceeding, unless he establishes the relation of landlord between
himself and the defendant, no matter what the form of declaration is, he is not entitled to recover. I have always held that
at special term, and that is the opinibn that we entertain now.
It is still a landlord and tenant proceeding."
In two earlier cases, a purchaser at a sale under a deed of
trust in the nature of a mortgage had been declared, by the
Supreme Court of the District of Columbia in general term,
to be entitled to maintain this proceeding against the mortgagor, who had remained in possession without the plaintiff's
consent, and had been served with a thirty days' notice to quit.

OCTOBER TERM-,

1897.

Opinion of the Court.

But in the first of those cases this was wholly obiter dictum,
the appeal to the general term being dismissed because the
judgment in special term was final; and in the other case no
question appears to have been raised upon the construction of
the statute. Luchs v. Jones, (1874) 1 McArthur, 3,5 ; Fiske v.
Bigelow, (1876) 2 McArthur, 427.
Afterwards, in Loring v. Bartlett, (1894) 4 App. D. 0. 1,
the Court of Appeals, speaking by Chief Justice Alvey, reversing a judgment of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, and quoting from Birch v. IV 'ight, 1 T. R. 378, 382, 383,
refrained from expressing a definite opinion upon the question
"whether the siniple and ordinary relation of mortgagor and
mortgagee involves the relation of landlord and tenant by
implication of law, within the meaning and sense of the
statute;" and maintained the suit, solely upon the ground
that a provision, in a trust deed to secure the payment of
promissory notes, by which the mortgagee and her heirs and
assigns were to be permitted "to use and occupy the said
described premises, and the rents, issues and profits thereof to
take, have and apply, to and for her and their sole use and
benefit, until default be made in the payment of said notes or
any of them," constituted a re-demise from the mortgagee
to the mortgagor, which would support a proceeding under
the statute. The cases relied on in support of that decision
were Georges Creek Co. v. Detmold, 1 Maryland, 225, 236,
and some English cases, all of which were ordinary actions
of ejectment, and none of them under statutes like that now
in question.
The decision in Loring v. Bartlett was followed by the
Court of Appeals in the present case, without further discussion. 6 App. D. C. 375, 383.
Upon full consideration of the terms of the act of Congress,
and in view of the existing state of the law in this country at
the time of its passage, this court is unable to concur in the
conclusion of the Court of Appeals.
The common saying that a mortgagor in possession is tenant at will to the mortgagee has been often recognized to be
a most unsafe guide in defining the relation of mortgagee and

WILLIS v. EASTERN TRUST AND BANKING CO.

303

Opinion of the Court.

mortgagor, or in construing statutes authorizing landlords to
recover possession against their tenants by summary process
before a justice of the peace.
In M1oss v. Gallimore,(1779) Lord Mansfield said: "A mortgagor is not properly tenant at will to the mortgagee, for he
is not to pay him rent. He is only so guodamn modo. Nothing is more apt to confound than a simile. When the court,
or counsel, call a mortgagor a tenant at will, it is barely a comparison. He is lice a tenant at will. The mortgagor receives
the rent by a tacit agreement with the mortgagee, but the mortgagee may put an end to this agreement when he pleases."
1 Doug. 279, 282, 283. And in Birch v. Wi'igkt, (1786) Mr.
Justice Buller said: "He is not a tenant at will, because he is
not entitled to the growing crops after the will is determined.
He is not considered as tenant at will in those proceedings
which are in daily use between a mortgagor and mortgagee;
I mean in ejectments brought for the recovery of the mortgaged lands." I T. R. 378, 383.
Under early statutes of the State of New York, providing
that any tenant at will, or at sufferance, or for years, holding
over without permission of his landlord after the expiration of
his term, or after default in the payment of rent, might be removed from the possession upon a proceeding commenced by
the landlord before a justice of the peace, it was constantly
held by the Supreme Court of the State that a mortgagee
could not maintain this process against a mortgagor in possession; and Chief Justice Savage said that for some purposes,
indeed, the mortgagor, after condition broken, was considered
as tenant to the mortgagee; but that the statute "was clearly
designed to afford a speedy remedy where the conventional
relation of landlord and tenant existed, and not where that
relation is created by operation of law ;" and "the legislature
never intended that the mortgagee should have a right to proceed under this statute to obtain possession of the mortgaged
premises after forfeiture." N. Y. Stat. of 1820, c. 194; 2 Rev.
Stat. of 1828, pt. 3, c. 8, tit. 10, §§ 28 & seq; Evertson v. Sutton,
(1830) 5 Wend. 281, 284; Roach v. Cosine, (1832) 9 Wend. 227,
231, 232; Sims v. 3umhrey, (1847) 4 Denio, 185, 187; Ben-

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

jamin v. Benjamin, (1851) 5 N. Y. 383, 388; People v. Simpson., (1863) 28 N. Y. 55, 56.
It is true, as has been heretofore observed by this court,
that in the State of New York the courts of law had, by a
gradual progress, adopted the views of courts of equity in
relation to mortgages, and considered the mortgagor, whilst in
possession and before foreclosure, as the real owner, except as
against the mortgagee, and as having the right of possession,
even as against the mortgagee; whereas by the law of Maryland, prevailing in the District of Columbia, the legal estate
is considered as vested in the mortgagee, and, as soon as the
estate in mortgage is created, the mortgagee may enter into
possession, though he seldom avails himself of that. right.
Tan. ess y. Hyatt, 13 Pet. 294, 299.
But the mortgagee has been equally held not to be entitled
to maintain against the mortgagor a summary landlord and
tenant process in States where, as in New England, the mortgagee is held to be the owner of the legal title. 1 Jones on
Mortgages, § 58.
The Revised Statutes of Massachusetts of 1836, c. 104, §§ 2,
4-9, contained provisions very similar to those of §§ 2-4 of
the act of Congress of July 4,1864, as to the cases in which
and the persons by and against whom. the proceedings might
be instituted, the service of summons, the form of judgment,
and the removal of the case, by certificate or by appeal, into
a court of record.
In that chapter of the Massachusetts statutes of '1836, section
2 was as follows: "When any forcible entry shall be made, or
when an entry shall be made in a peaceable manner, and the
possession shall be unlawfully held by force, and also when the
lessee of any lands or tenements, or any person holding under
such lessee, shall hold possession of the demised premises, without right, after the determination of the lease, either by its
own limitation, or by a notice to quit, as provided in the sixtieth chapter," (section 26 of which provided that estates at
will might be terminated by either party by notice of three
months, or by the landlord by fourteen days' notice in case of
non-payment of rent,) "the person entitled to the premises may

WILLIS v. EASTERN TRUST AND BANIKING CO.

305

Opinion of the Court.

be restored to the possession thereof, in the manner hereinafter provided." And by section 4, "the person entitled to
the possession of the premises" might obtain from a justice
of the peace a summons to answer to a complaint charging
the defendant with being in possession of the land in question,
and holding it unlawfully and against the right of the plaintiff.
It was the settled construction of that statute by the
Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts, that a mortgagee,
even after he had entered for the purpose of foreclosure, could
not maintain an action against his mortgagor to recover possession of the mortgaged premises. "Whilst the parties stood
in the relation of mortgagor and mortgagee," said Chief Justice Shaw, "the defendant was not lessee, within the meaning
of this statute. A mortgagor in possession is sometimes, in a
loose sense, said to be tenant at will to the mortgagee. But
he is not liable to rent, or to account for rents and profits;
these he holds to his own use. He is like a tenant at will,
because the mortgagee may enter upon the estate at his will,
if he can, do so peaceably, when not restrained by covenant."
Larned v. Clarke, (1851) 8 Cush. 29, 31. And again: "The
present statute contemplates three cases in which this process
will lie : 1. Forcible entry; 2. Forcible detainer; 3.. A tenant holding against his landlord, either (1) after the determination of a lease by its own limitation ; or (2) after the expiration of a notice to quit duly given ; or (3) after a notice of
fourteen days, for non-payment of rent. In the present case,
the proof shows no forcible entry, no forcible detainer, no
holding over of a tenant of demised premises. These are the
only cases contemplated in this statute in which this summary
process will lie. Although, in a loose sense, a mortgagor in
possession is said to be tenant at will of the mortgagee, yet he
is not within the reason or the letter of the Revised Statutes,
c. 104, § 2. He is not lessee, or holding under a lessee, or
holding demised premises without right, after the determination of the lease. The remedies of a mortgagee are altogether
of a different character, clearly marked out by law." ilastings v. Pratt, (1851) 8 Cush. 121, 123. See also Dakin v.
VOL. CLXIX-20

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

Allen, (1851) 8 Cush. 33; Gerrish v. .Mason, (1855) 4 Gray,
432.
In chapter 137 of the General Statutes of Massachusetts of
1860, the provisions of the Revised Statutes of 1836, above
mentioned, were substantially reenacted, section 2 being put
in the following form: "When a forcible entry is made, or
when a peaceable entry is made and the possession unlawfully
held by force, or when the lessee of land or tenements, or a
person holding under such lessee, holds possession without
right, after the determination of the lease by its own limitation,
or by notice to quit, or otherwise, the person entitled to the
premises may be restored to the possession in the manner
hereinafter provided." The words "or otherwise" were apparently added in that section, because of its having been
decided, under the earlier statute, that "the determination of
the lease by its own limitation" did not include its determination by the lessor's entry for breach of a condition in the lease.
Fifty Associates v. Howland, (1846) 11 Met. 99; Whitwell v.
ilarris,(1871) 106 Mass. 532.
By section 5 of the statute of 1860, "the person entitled to
the possession of the premises" may obtain from a justice of
the peace a summons "to answer to the complaint of the plaintiff, for that the defendant is in possession of the lands," "which
he holds unlawfully and against the right of the plaintiff."
The provision, above quoted, of the statute of 1860, which
defines the circumstances under which this summary process
may be commenced before a justice of the peace, is almost
exactly like the corresponding provision of the act of Congress
of 1864, as will appear by putting the two together, with
those words of the Massachusetts statute which have been
omitted in the act of Congress printed in italics, and the words
added in the act of Congress enclosed in brackets, as follows:
"When a forcible entry is made, or when a peaceable entry is
made and the possession unlawfully held by force, or when
the lessee of land or tenements, or aperson holding under such
lessee, holds possession [is held] without right, after the determination [estate is determined by the terms] of the lease by
its own limitation, or by notice to quit, or otherwise."

WILLIS v. EASTERN TRUST AND BANKING CO. 307
Opinion of the Court.

This provision, as incorporated in the act of Congress,
though somewhat condensed in form, is essentially in the same
words, and of precisely the same meaning, as the provision of
the statute of Massachusetts. While it omits the words "the
lessee of land or tenements, or a person holding under such
lessee," it still, like the Massachusetts statute, (in cases where
there is neither forcible entry nor forcible detainer,) is restricted
to cases in which "the lease" has been determined, and differs in this respect from the provision in the first section of
the act of Congress, which defines tenancies by sufferance.
The statute of Massachusetts and the act of Congress resemble each other in many other respects. Each authorizes "the
person entitled to the premises" to recover possession by complaint to a justice of the peace. Each authorizes the complaint
to be in general terms; in Massachusetts, alleging that the
defendant is in possession of the land, and holds it unlawfully
and against the right of the plaintiff; in the District of Columbia, "charging a forcible entry or detainer of real estate."
Each requires the summons to be served seven days before
appearance. The provisions as to the form of the judgment
of the justice of the peace for either party are exactly alike
in both statutes. Each statute provides that, when the title
is put in issue, the case may be certified to a court of record;
that from any judgment of the justice of the peace an appeal
may be taken by either party to that court; and that upon
such removal, either by certificate or by the defendant's appeal,
the defendant shall recognize to the plaintiff, with sufficient
sureties, to pay intervening rent and damages. Mass. Gen.
Stat. of 1860, c. 137, §§ 6-10; Act of Congress of July 4, 1864,
c. 243, §§ 2-4; Rev. Stat. D. C. §§ 684-689.
The resemblance between the provisions of the Massachusetts statute of 1860 and of the act of Congress of 1864 is so
remarkable, that it is evident that the latter were taken from
the former. This being so, the known and settled construc
tion, which those statutes had received in Massachusetts before
the original enactment of the act of Congress, must be considered as having been adopted by Congress with the text
thus expounded. Tcke' v. Oxley, 5 Cranch, 34,42; Pennock v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

Dialogue, 2 Pet. 1, 18; Metropolitan Railroad v. M21oore, 121
U. S.558, 572; Warner v. Texas & Pacific Railway, 164 U. S.
418, 423. In .etrapolitan Railroad v. .Moore, just cited,
where provisions of statutes of New York, regulating judicial
procedure, had been incorporated by Congress, in substantially
the same language, in the legislation concerning the District
of Columbia, it was held that Congress must be presumed to
have adopted those provisions as then understood in New
York and already construed by the courts of that State, and
not as affected by the previous practice in Maryland or in the
courts of the District of Columbia.
Before the passage of the act of Congress of 1864, the
Supreme Judicial Court of Maine had held that a mortgagee
could not proceed against his mortgagor under a statute of
that State, the leading sections of which provided that "a
process of forcible entry and detainer may be commenced
against a disseizor, who has not acquired any claim by possession and improvement; and against a tenant holding under a
written lease or contract, or person holding under such tenant,
at the expiration or forfeiture of the term, without notice;"
"and against a tenant at will, whose tenancy has been terminated" by notice to quit, in which last case "the tenant shall
be liable to the process aforesaid without further notice, and
without proof of any relation of landlord and tenant." Maine
Rev. Stat. of 1857, c. 941; Reed v. -Elwell,(1858) 46 Maine, 270,
278, 279; Dunning v. Finson, (1859) 46 Maine, 546, 553.
See also Sawyer v. Hanson, (1845) 24 Maine, 542; Clement v.
Bennett, (1879) 70 Maine, 207.
Similar opinions have been expressed in cases arising in
other States under statutes differing in language, but having
the same general purpose. Davis v. Hen2enway, (1855) 27
Yermont, 589; .JfcCombs v. Wallace, (1872) 66 No. Car. 481;
Greer v. lFilbar, (1875) 72 No. Car. 592; HVecklace v. West,
(1878) 33 Arkansas, 682; -ATightingale v. Barens, (1879) 47
Wisconsin, 389; Steele v. Bond, (1881) 28 Minnesota, 267;
Chicago, Burlington & Qtincy Railroadv. Skupa, (1884) 16
Nebraska, 341. We have not been referred to, and are not
aware of, a single case in any State in which a summary

WILLIS v. EASTERN TRUST AND BAlNKING CO.
W

309

Opinion of the Court.

process of this kind has been maintained by a mortgagee
against his mortgagor, unless specifically given by distinct
provision in the statute.
The view which has been generally, if not universally,
entertained by the courts of the several States upon this
subject has been well expressed by the Supreme Court of
Minnesota in Steele v. Bond, above cited, as follows: "The
act concerning forcible entries and unlawful detainers, so far
as it affords a remedy for landlords against tenants who unlawfully detain the premises after a default in the payment of
the rent, or the expiration of the term, must be construed as
similar acts have always been construed, by the courts of other
States, to apply only to the conventional relation of landlord
and tenant. It was not intended as a substitute for the action
of ejectment, nor to afford means of enforcing agreements to
surrender possession of real estate, where either that relation
does not exist or has not existed. The foundation fact upon
which the jurisdiction rests is that the tenant is in possession
of the land in consequence and by virtue of that relation, and
unlawfully withholds possession after a default in the performance of the terms upon which he entered, or after his
term has expired." 28 Minnesota, 273.
Considering the terms of the act of Congress, the settled
construction, before the passage of that act, of the statute of
Massachusetts from which it appears to have been taken, and
the general course of decision in this country under statutes
on the same subject, the reasonable conclusion is that, in order
to sustain this form of proceeding, the conventional relation
of landlord and tenant must exist or have existed between the
parties.
A mortgagee holds no such relation to a mortgagor in possession. The mortgagor, though loosely called a tenant at will
of the mortgagee, is such in no other sense than that his possession may be put an end to whenever the mortgagee pleases.
Lord Mansfield, in .Moss v. Gallimore, 1 Doug. 279, 283; Lord
Selborne, in Lows v. Telford, 1 App. Cas. 414, 426; Shaw,
C. T., in Larned v. Clarke, 8 Cush. 29, 31; Carroll v. Ballance, 26 Illinois, 9, 19. The mortgagee may take possession

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

at any time; but, so long as there has been no breach of condition of the mortgage, this right is rarely exercised, and the
mortgagor is usually permitted, by oral or tacit agreement
with the mortgagee, or by express stipulation in the mortgage,
to remain in possession. 2 ]31. Com. 158; Mfoss v. Gallimore,
above cited; Colman v. Packard, 16 Mass. 39; .Flagg v.
Flagg, 11 Pick. 475, 477; Jamieson v. Bruce, 6 Gill &
Johns. 72, 75; Van Ness v. HyaU, 13 Pet. 294, 299. Until
the mortgagee takes actual possession, the mortgagor is not
liable, without an express covenant to that effect, to pay rent,
and is entitled to take the rents and profits to his own use.
Teal v. Walker, 111 U. S. 242, 248-251, and cases cited;
Freedman's Saving Co. v. Shepherd, 127 U. S. 494, 502;
Larned v. Clarke, above cited.
When the mortgagor remains in possession with the assent
of the mortgagee, without formal agreement, no one would
think of saying that there was a lease from the mortgagee to
the mortgagor, or that the relation of landlord and tenant
existed between them. An express stipulation in the mortgage, that the mortgagor may remain in possession until
breach of condition, is intended merely to put in definite and
binding form the understanding of the parties as to the exercise of their rights as mortgagor and mortgagee, and not to
create between them a distinct relation of tenant and landlord.
Anderson v. Strauss, 98 Illinois, 485.
That such was the understanding and intention of the
parties to the deed of trust in this case is apparent from its
terms, by which the American Ice Company mortgages all
its real estate, wharves, icehouses and other buildings and
machinery; and it is provided that, until default, the mortgagor "shall be permitted and suffered to possess, manage,
develop, operate and enjoy the plant and property herein conveyed, and intended so to be, and to take and use the income,
rents, issues and profits thereof, in the same manner, to the
same extent, and with the same effect, as if this deed had not
been made."
The result is, that the plaintiff is not entitled to maintain
this process, but must be left, so far as the aid of a court of

RICHIOND &c. RAILROAD CO. v. TOBACCO CO.

311

Counsel for Plaintiff in Error.

justice is requisite to secure the rights conferred by the mortgage, to the appropriate remedy of a writ of ejectment, or a
bill of foreclosure. Comp. Stat. D. C. c. 48, § 1; c. 55, § 10;
HYogan v. Kurtz, 9: U. S. 773; Hughes v. Edwards, 9 Wheat.
489.
Judgment of the Court of Apeals 'reversed, and case 'emanded with directions to afflrm the judgment of the Supreme Court of the Districtof Columbia.

RICHMOND AND ALLEGHANY RAILROAD COMPANY v. R. A. PATTERSON TOBACCO COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT

OF

APPEALS OF

THE STATE

OF

VIIRGINIA.
NTo.172. Submitted January 4, 169S. -Decided

February 21,1698.

Section 1295 of the Virginia Code of 1887, enacting that "when a common
carrier accepts for transportation anything, directed to a point of destination beyond the terminus of his own line or route, he shall be deemed
thereby to assume an obligation for its safe carriage to such point of destination, unless, at the time of such acceptance, such carrier be released
or exempted from such liability by contract in writing signed by the
owner or his agent; and, although there be such contract in writing, if
such thing be lost or injured, such common carrier shall himself be liable
therefor, unless, within a reasonable time after demand made, he shall
give satisfactory proof to the consignor that the loss or injury did not
occur while the thing was in his charge" does not attempt to substantially
regulate or control contracts as to interstate shipments, but simply establishes a rule of evidence, ordaining the character 'of proof by which a
carrier may show that,, although it received goods for transportation beyond itl own line, nevertheless, by agreement, its liability was limited to
its own line; and it does not conflict with the provisions of the Constitution of the United States, touching interstate commerce.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
.Mr. H. T. Wickham and -Mr. Henry Taylor, Jr., for plaintiff in error.

