OCTOBER TERMI, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

the cause to that court with directions to dismiss the petitionfor the writ of mandamus because of the death of the
defendant Butterworth.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN, MR. JUSTICE BREWEpR and MR. JUSTICE

PEoxKAm dissented.

McCORMICK HARVESTING MACHINE CO. v.
AULTMAN.
SAME v. AULTMAN-MILLER COMPANY.
CERTIFICATE FROMI THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.
Nos. 180, 181. Argued December 1, 2, 1S9T. -Decided

March 21, 1898.

If the, owner of a patent applies to the Patent Office for a reissue of it and
includes, among the claims in the application, the same claims as those
which were included in the old patent, and the primary examiner rejects
some of such claims for want of patentable novelty, by reference to prior
patents, and allows others, both old and new, the owner of the patent
does not, by taking no appeal and by abandoning his application for reissue, hold the original patent (the return of which he procures from the
Patent Office) invalidated as to those of its claims which were disallowed
for want of patentable novelty by the primary examiner in the proceeding for reissue ; as the Patent Office, by the issue of the original patent,
had lost jurisdiction over it, and did not regain it by the application for
a reissue.

THIS was a question certified to this court by the Circuit
Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit, involving the authority
of a primary examiner of the Patent Office to reject as invalid claims of an original patent which were incorporated in
an application for a reissue.
It appears that the McCormick Harvesting Machine Company filed a bill in equity in the United States Circuit Court
for the Northern District of Ohio against C. Aultman et al.,
and also one against the Aultman-Miller Company, in each of

McCORMICK MACHINE CO. v. AULTMAK.

607

Statement of the Case.

which it was sought to restrain the defendant from the future
infringement of two patents covering automatic twine binders
for harvesting machines. As the interests of the several defendants were closely identified the two cases were heard
together.
The question certified involves only patent No. 159,506,
issued to Marquis L. Gorham, February 9, 1875, and the other
patent sued upon will therefore not be considered. The record
shows that there was filed in the Patent Office by the executrix of Gorham an application for a reissue of this patent, in
which were included several claims of the original patent, as
well as many new claims. Upon consideration, the assistant
or primary examiner decided that claims 3, 10, 11, 25 and 26
of the original patent should be rejected for want of patentable novelty, and reference was made to prior patented devices.
No appeal was taken from this decision, and subsequently, in
compliance with a request, the original patent was returned
to the plaintiff corporation, which had become the owner
thereof. Thereafter these suits were brought against the defendants upon the original patent.
In the Circuit Court it was decided, that as the original
claims 3, 10, 11, 25 and 26 had been determined by the examiner to be invalid, and no appeal had been taken from that
decision, but the same had apparently been acquiesced in, the
adverse action must be regarded as fatal to the claims in question, and to the same extent as if the rejection had been
incident to the original application for the patent. 58 Fed.
Rep. 778.
Upon appeal the Circuit Court of Appeals decided that there
was no infringement by the defendants as to claims 25 and 26,
but that there was infringement of claims 3, 10 and 11 of the
original patent, unless it should be determined that they were
invalidated by their being rejected by the examiner upon an
application for a reissue of the same; and, desiring instruction upon this point, it certified to this court the following
question: "If the owner of a patent applies to the Patent
Office for a reissue of it, and includes among the claims in the
application the same claims as those which were included in

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

the old patent, and the primary examiner rejects some of such
claims for want of patentable novelty, by reference to prior
patents, and allows others, both old and new, does the owner
of the patent, by taking no appeal and by abandoning his
application for reissue, hold the original patent, the return of
which he procures from the Patent Office, invalidated as to
those of its claims which were disallowed for want of patentable novelty by the primary examiner in the proceeding for
reissue 1."
Mr. Robert ZT Parkinson for appellant.
Mr. Thomas A. Banning, (with whom was Mr. Ep raim
Banning on the brief,) and -Mr. Edmund TMetmore for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE BRowN, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

The validity of the- claims in question depends upon the
view taken of the action of the examiner in rejecting them
when incorporated in an application for a reissue of the patent,
upon the ground that the claims were wanting in patentable
novelty, as evidenced by prior patents cited by him. No
appeal was taken from this decision, and the matter lay in
abeyance for nearly two years before the plaintiff corporation,
which had in the meantime become the owner of the patent,
abandoned the application for a reissue and requested and
obtained from the Patent Office the return of the original
patent.
It has been settled by repeated decisions of this court that
when a patent has received the signature of the Secretary of
the Interior, countersigned by the Commissioner of Patents,
and has had affixed to it the seal of the Patent Office, it has
passed beyond the control and jurisdiction of that office, and
is not subject to be revoked or cancelled by the President, or
any other officer of the Government. United States v. Schurz,
102 U. S. 378; United States v. Am. Bell Telephone Co., 128

McCORMICK MACHINE CO. v. AULTMAN.
Opinion of the Court.

U. S. 315, 36S: /It has become the property of the patentee,
and as sudh is 6ntitled to the same legal protection as other
property. >i@mour v. Osborne, 11 Wall. 516; Cammeyer v.
Newton, 94 U. S. 225; United States v. Palmer, 128 U. S.
262, 271, citing James v. Campbell, 104 U. S. 356.
The cnly authority competent to set a patent aside, or to
annul it, or to correct it for any reason whatever, is vested in
the courts of the United States, and not in the department
which issued the patent. Moore v. Robbins, 96 U. S. 530,
533; United States v. Am. Bell Telephone Co., 128 U. S. 315,
364; -Michigan Land and Lumber Co. v. Rust, 168 U. S. 589,
593. And in this respect a patent for an invention stands in
the same position and is subject to the same limitations as a
patent for a grant of lands. The power to issue either one of
these patents comes from Congiess and is vested in the same
department. In the case of a patent for lands it has been
held that when one has obtained a patent from the Government he cannot be called upon to answer in regard to that
patent before the officers of the Land Department, and that
the only way his title can be impeached is by suit. United
States v. Stone, 2 Wall. 525, 535; Iron Silver Mining Co. v.
Campbell, 135 U. S. 286; Yoble v. Union River Logging
Railroad, 147 U. S. 165. But a suit may be maintained by
the United States to set aside a patent for lands improperly
issued by reason of mistake, or fraud; but only in the case
where the Government has a direct interest, or is under obligation respecting the relief invoked. United States v. Missouri, Kansas f: Texas Railway, 141 U. S. 358.
While a patent for a grant of lands is absolutely free from
the future control of the officers of the Land Department
after it has once issued, and jurisdiction over the matter cannot again be obtained, this is subject to a single qualification
in the case of a patent for an invention where the patentee,
his legal representatives or assigns, find the original patent
inoperative or invalid by reason of a defective or insufficient
specification, or by reason of the patentee claiming as his
invention or discovery more than he had a right to claim as
new (provided the error has arisen through inadvertence,
VOL. CLX=

89

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

accident or mistake, and without frauduleir-/cr deceptive
intention). In such case a reissue will be granted b the Com-

-

missioner upon the surrender of the patent, but sIL&i surrender
takes effect only upon the issue of the amended patent. This
provision is embodied in Rev. Stat. ยง 4916, which also declares
that "the specifications and claim in every such case shall be
subject to revision and restriction in the same man'er as
original applications, . . . but no new matter shall be introduced into the specifications."
The plain purpose of this section is to give the patentee an
opportunity to make valid and operative that which was before
invalid and inoperative; invalid, because it claimed as new
that which had been previously invented or used by the public;
inoperative, because the specification was defective or insufficient. INew matter cannot be introduced, nor can the scope
of the invention be enlarged. All that the applicant can do is
to so amend his patent as to enable him to receive some practical and beneficial result from his actual invention, of which
he has been deprived by defects or omissions in the original
patent. The object of a patentee applying for a reissue is not
to reopen the question of the validity of the original patent,
but to rectify any error which may have been found to have
arisen from his inadvertence or mistake. But until the
amended patent shall have been issued the original stands
precisely as if a reissue had never been applied for, (Allen v.
Culp, 166 U. S. 501, 505,) and must be returned to the owner
upon demand. The fact that the rules of the Patent Office
xequire that the original patent should be placed in its custody
Tor the purpose of surrendering it upon the issue of an amended
,patent gives that department no right to the possession of it
-upon the rejection of thd application for a reissue. If the
patentee abandoned his application for a reissue, he is entitled
.to a return of his original patent precisely as it stood when
such application was made, and the Patent Office has no
greater authority to mutilate it by rejecting any of its claims
than it has to cancel the entire patent.
In Peck v. Collins, 103 U. S. 660, an application for reissue
,made under the laws in force in 1866 was held to absolutely

McCORMICK MACHINE CO. v. A-ULTIJA.
Opinion of the Court.

extinguish the original patent. Subsequent to that time the
law of 1870, of which Rev. Stat. ยง 4916 forms a part, was
passed. Mr. Justice Bradley, in discussing the clause in that
section which declares that the surrender "shall take effect
upon the issue of the amended patent," said: "What may be
the effect of this provision in cases where a reissue is refused
it is not necessary now to decide. Possibly it may be to enable the applicant to have a return of his original patent if a
reissue is refused on some formal or other ground which does
not affect the original claim. But if his title to the invention
is disputed and adjudged against him, it would still seem that
the effect of such a decision should be as fatal to his original
patent as to his right to a reissue." This same question was
considered but not decided in Eby v. Zing, 158 U. S. 366;
and in Allen v. Culp, 166 U. S. 501, 505, it was held that if
the original application for a reissue be rejected the original
patent stands precisely as though a reissue had never been
applied for; but the effect of the refusal of the reissue upon
some ground equally affecting the original patent was not
considered.
In neither of these cases was this court called upon to decide
the question which has been certified, and the expression of
opinion in Peol v. Collins, relied upon by the defendants,
must be considered merely a dictum, and lacking the force of
a judicial determination.
In the case under consideration the examiner acted upon
the application as if it were a new proceeding, and dealt with
it as the evidence before him seemed to warrant, but his
action in rejecting some of the claims which had been repeated from the original patent did not affect that patent.
It is true that it was within his power to reject any claims
contained in the application for a reissue which he judged to
be invalid, whether contained in the original patent or not.
It is also true that the reasons given for the rejection of such
claims might apply equally to the same claims contained in
the original patent; but with respect to such claims he was
functus officio. His opinion thereon was but his personal
opinion, and however persuasive it might be, did not oust the

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

jurisdiction of any court to which the owner might apply for
an adjudication of his rights, and as the examiner had no
authority to affect the claims of the original patent, no appeal
was necessary from his decision.
Had the original patent been procured by fraud or deception it would have been the duty of the Commissioner of
Patents to have had the matter referred to the Attorney
General with the recommendation that a suit be instituted to
cancel the patent; but to attempt to cancel a patent upon an
application for reissue when the first patent is considered invalid by the examiner would be to deprive the applicant of
his property without due process of law, and would be in fact
an invasion of the judicial branch of the government by the
executive.
Our conclusion upon the whole case is that, upon the issue
of the original patent, the Patent Office had no power to revoke, cancel or annul it. It had lost jurisdiction over it, and
did not regain such jurisdiction by the application for a reissue. Upon application being made for such reissue the
Patent Office was authorized to deal with all its claims, the
originals as well as those inserted first in the application, and
might declare them to be invalid, but such action would not
affect the claims .of the original patent, which remained in
full force, if the application for a reissue were rejected or
abandoned.
The validity of the claims, so far as their merits are concerned, has been sustained by the Circuit Court of Appeals,
and, as the original patent must stand precisely as though a
reissue had never been applied for,,
The question certified to this court must be answeredin the
negative.

