UNITED STATES v. EATON.
Statement of the Case.

UNITED STATES v. EATON.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No.174. Submitted January 4, 195S.
- Decided February 28, 1898.
Congress has power, under the Constitution, to vest in the President authority to appoint a subordinate officer, called a vice-consul, to be temporarily charged with the duty of performing the functions of the consular office.
The Revised Statutes confer upon the President full power, in his discretion, to appoint vice-consuls, and fix their compensation, to be paid out
of the allowance made by law for the principal consular officer in whose
place such appointment shall be made.
The facts that the minister resident and consul-general at Siam had obtained
a leave of absence from the President, and was ill and unable to discharge
his duties, and that the vice-consul previously appointed had not qualified, and was absent from Siam, created a temporary vacancy and justified an emergency appointment to fill it.
The accounting officers of the Government did not err in treating the salary
fixed by law for the joint service of minister resident and consul-general
at Siam as indivisible.
There was no error in allowing Eaton compensation for a period during
which he performed the duties of the office before his official bond was
received and approved.
A consular officer must account to the Government for fees received by him
for administering upon the estates of citizens of the United States,
dying within the limits of his jurisdiction.

Ix October, 1890, Sempronius H. .Boyd was commissioned
as minister resident and consul-general of the United States to
Siam; he qualified and proceeded to his post, and was in June,
1892, engaged in the discharge of his official duties. At that
time, being seriously ill, Boyd was granted by the President a
leave of absence. Before leaving Bangkok, Siam, Boyd, to

quote from the findings of fact, "believingr his illness would
terminate fatally, and being desirous to protect the interests
of the Government during his absence and until the then expected arrival from the United States of Robert Mf. Boyd,
whom Sempronius Boyd desired should act as consul-general,
the latter called to his aid Lewis A. Eaton (now a plaintiff
herein, who was then a missionary at Bangkok) and asked him

OCTOBER TERM, 189.
Statement of the Case.

to take charge of the consulate and its archives. Thereupon
the following letter, dated June 21, 1892, was written by
Boyd:
"U. S. LEGATION AND CONSULATE-GENERAL,
".Bangkok, June 21, 1892.
"KRom LuANG DEVAwONGSEE VAROPROKAN,

"IlMinisterfor Iforeig Afairs:
"MONSIEUR

LE

MINISTRE:

It is with exceeding regret to

me to be forced to abandon my diplomatic and consular duties
at the court of His Majesty, with the enjoyment, pleasure, comfort and genuine friendship so marked and distinguished, which
the representative of the United States fully appreciated and
imparted to his Government.
"All the physicians advise me to go soon to a cold climate.
The President has wired me to that effect. In 20 or 30 days I
may be strong enough for a sea voyage, of which I will avail
myself.

I am authorized to designate and do designate L. A.

Eaton vice-consul-general until I am able to assume. If not
incompatible with public affairs, I beg you to so regard him.
"Monsieur le Ministre, I am too weak and feeble to call in
person, which I would so much like to have done, and expressed my thanks and that of my Government to the foreign
office and attaches.
"With assurance of my high consideration, I have the
honor to be, Monsieur le Ministre, your obedient servant."
Boyd thereupon administered to Eaton an oath to faithfully
discharge the duties of the office of vice-consul-general, etc.
The findings state that Boyd believed he had authority for
this action. Robert M. Boyd, who is referred to above, was
then in the United States, and, although appointed as viceconsul, had not qualified. Sempronius t. Boyd remained in
Siam until the 12bh day of July, 1892, when he left for the
United States, and on his departure he turned over to Eaton,
as the representative of the Government of the United States,
all the archives and property of the legation. Boyd arrived
at his home, in the State of Missouri, on August 27, 1892, and
although his leave of absence expired October 26, 1892, he did

UNITED STATES v. EATON.
Statement of the Case.

not, on account of illness, return to his post, but remained at

his home, where he died June 22, 1894. Eaton, on the departure of Boyd, was the sole person "in charge of the interests
of the Government at Bangkok, and performed whatever
duties were required there of either a minister resident or a
consul-general, with the knowledge of the Department of
State and with that department's approval. The department
acknowledged his communications and acted upon them as
communications from a person authorized to perform the
duties of minister resident and consul-general in the emergency then existing." On "September 2, 1892, Eaton executed (under instructions from the Department of State) an
official bond, calling himself acting consul-general of the United
States at Bangkok; this was received at the Department of
State and was approved January 3, 1893; subsequently, under
instructions from the Department of State, dated January 2.,
1893, he executed another bond as vice-consul-general of the
United States at Bangkok, which was approved by the Secretary of State April 23, 1893. Both of these bonds bore date
June 13, 1892, with the knowledge and consent of Eaton's
sureties thereon, and were so dated because of a pencil memorandum on each bond when received in blank by Eaton from
the Department of State, directing him to insert the date of
his appointment in the blank space reserved for the date."
On November 2, 1892, the Secretary of State wrote Eaton,
enclosing him the commission of Robert Boyd, which had
been issued in 1891, as vice-consul at Siam. In February,
1893, Robert Boyd appeared in Siam, and, in accordance with
the instructions of the Secretary of State, Eaton introduced
him as vice-consul, and on May 18 he qualified, when Eaton's
performance of the duties of the office ceased. The findings
below say:
"Eaton rendered to the accounting officers of the Treasury
his account for salary for the entire period of his service, in
which he charged and claimed one half of the salary of $5000
per annum appropriated for said post of minister resident and
consul-general, from July 12, 1892, to October 26, 1892; that
is, from the departure of the minister to and including the

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

date on which the leave of absence for sixty days (excluding
transit time) expired, and the full salary at the rate of $5000
per annum from October 27, 1892, to -May17, 1893, inclusive.
"Eaton also rendered with his salary account a return of all
fees collected during the entire period of his service, both fees
official and unofficial, including fees notarial and fees and fines
received in the United States consular court at Bangkok,
amounting in all to $245.41.
"Eaton also rendered to the Department of State his
account of disbursements from the contingent .fund of the
legation and consulate-general from July 1, 1892, to April 30,
1893, which was there approved.
"In the settlement of said accounts by the accounting
officers of the Treasury the sum of $5.73, expended by Eaton
for candles and lanterns, was suspended for information, which
was thereafter furnished, but said sum remains disallowed and
unpaid.
"In the settlement of Eaton's salary accounts by the Treasury the total amount of fees received, to wit, $245.41, was
charged to him and covered into the Treasury. The one half
salary from July 12, 1892, to October 26, 1892, amounting to
$726.90, was suspended for 'further information,' which was
thereafter furnished; but this sum remains unpaid. The full
salary from October 27, 1892, to May 17, 1893, amounting to
$2792.35, as approved by the Department of State, was
allowed and credited. Deducting from this $245 leaves in
Eaton's favor a balance of $2546.94, which was certified to
his credit by the First Comptroller December 4, 1893, no part
of which has been paid."
It is inferable from the facts found that the amount of compensation which the accounting officers of the Government
settled and allowed in favor of Eaton, as above stated, was
withheld from him because of a claim advanced by Sempronius
H. Boyd to the entire salary as minister resident and consulgeneral during a part of the time for which a portion of or
the whole of the salary had been allowed Eaton. Indeed, on
the 16th of June, 1894, Sempronius H. Boyd sued in the court
below to recover his full salary as minister resident and consul-

UNITED STATES v. EATON.

335

Opinion of the Court.

general from July, 1892, to February 11, 1893. Thereupon in
December, 1894, Eaton commenced his action to recover the
sums embraced in the following items:
A. For notarial or unofficial fees charged to him in
the settlement of his salary account by report
No. 162,708, as aforesaid, as per Exhibit 0 herewith ...................................... 8177 41
B. For the item of salary suspended in the settlement of his accounts for salary by report No.
162,708, as aforesaid .......................
726 90
0. For the balance of salary found due to claimant
by report INo. 162,708, as aforesaid, and certified to his credit ...........................
2546 94
D. For item expended for contingent expenses by
claimant, and suspended in the settlement of
his account therefor by report No. 162,709, as
aforesaid ..................................
5 73
$3456 98
The court below consolidated the two cases, and on its finding the facts above recited, rejected the claim of Sempronius
H. Boyd, his widow having been substituted as a party plaintiff on his death, and allowed the full amount of the claim
sued for by Eaton. From this judgment the United States
alone appeals.
.AM'. Assistant..ttorney General Pradt and .Mr. Charles IF
Russell for appellants.
.1r. John C. Chaney and -M,. John R. Garrison for appellee.
MR. JUsTICE WmTE, after making the foregoing statement
of the case, delivered the opinion of the court.
The errors relied upon to obtain a reversal rest on three
contentions: 1st. That the appointment of Eaton as acting

OCTOBER TERill, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

vice-consul was without warrant of law, and hence not susceptible of ratification by the State Department. 2d. Even
if the appointment was authorized by law, the statute conferring the power was in violation of the Constitution of the
United States. 3d. Because, even conceding the appointment
to have been valid, the court allowed a sum in excess of the
amount which the claimant was legally entitled to recover.
We will dispose of these contentions in the order stated.
In the third paragraph of section 1674, Revised Statutes,
the following definition is found: "Vice-consuls and vicecommercial agents shall be deemed to denote consular officers,
who shall be substituted, temporarily, to fill the places of
consuls-general, consuls or commercial agents, when they shall
be temporarily absent or relieved from duty." And this definition by Congress of the nature of a vice-consulship was notchanged by the amendment to section 4130 of the Revised
Statutes by the act of February 1, 1876, c. 6, 19 Stat. 2, as the
obvious purpose of that act was simply to provide that where
the words "minister," "consul" or "consul-general" were generally used, they should be taken also as embracing the subordinate officers who were to represent the principals in case
of absence. In other words, that where a delegation of authority was made to the incumbent of the office, the fact that
the name of the principal alone was mentioned should not be
considered as excluding the power to exercise such authority
by the subordinate and temporary officer, when the lawful
occasion for the performance of the duty by him arose. Provision for the appointment and the pay of. vice-consuls are
found in the following sections of the Revised Statutes:
"SEc. 1695. The President is authorized to define the extent
of country to be embraced within any consulate or commercial
agency, and to provide for the appointment of vice-consuls,
vice-commercial agents, deputy consuls and consular agents,
therein, in such manner and under such regulations as he shall
deem proper; but no compensation shall be allowed for the
services of any such vice-consul, or vice-commercial agent,
beyond nor except out of the allowance made by law for the
principal consular officer in whose place such appointment

UNITED STATES v. EATON.

337'

Opinion of the Court.

shall be made. No vice-consul, vice-commercial agent, deputy
consul or consular agent, shall be appointed otherwise than
under such regulations as have been or may be prescribed by
the President."
"SEO. 1703. Every vice-consul and vice-commercial agent
shall be entitled, as compensation for his services as such, to
the whole or so much of the compensation of the principal
consular officer in whose place he shall be appointed, as shall
be determined by the President, and the residue, if any, shall
be paid to such principal consular officer; .
".
The Consular Regulations, promulgated with the approval
of the President, contain the rules adopted in execution of the
powers expressed in the above provisions. When the appointment in controversy took place, the regulations of 1888 were
in force, and in sections 36, 87 and 471 thereof were found the
rules governing the appointments of vice-consuls and temporary vice-consuls and the manner of their payment. These
sections are as follows:
"36. Vice-consuls-general, deputy consuls-general, vice-consuls, deputy consuls, vice-commercial agents, deputy commercial agents and consular agents are appointed by the Secretary
of State, usually upon the nomination of the principal consular
officer, approved by the consul-general (if the nomination relates to a consulate or commercial agency), or if there be no
consul-general, then by the diplomatic representative.
If
there be no consul-general or diplomatic representative, the
nomination should be transmitted directly to the Department
of State, as shouhi also the nomination for subordinate officers in Mexico, British India, Manitoba and British Columbia. The nomination for vice-consul-general and deputy consul-general must be submitted to the diplomatic representative
for approval, if there be one resident in the country. The
privilege of making the nomination for the foregoing subordinate officers must not be construed to limit the authority
of the Secretary of State, as provided by law, to appoint
these officers without such previous nomination by the principal officer. The statutory power in this respect is reserved, and it will be exercised in all cases in which the
VOL. CLxiX-22

338

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

interests of the service or other public reasons may be deemed
to require it."
"87. In case a vacancy occurs in the offices both of consul
and vice-consul, which requires the appointment of a person
to perform temporarily the duties of the consulate, the diplomatic representative has authority to make such appointment,
with the consent of the foreign government and in conformity
to law and these regulations, immediate notice being given to
the Department of State. In those countries, however, where
there are consuls-general, to whom the nominations of subordinate officers are required to be submitted for approval, the
authority to make such temporary appointments is lodged
with them. Immediate notice should be given to the diplomatic representative of the proposed appointment, and, if it
can be done within a reasonable time, he should be consulted
before the appointment is made. If such a vacancy should
occur in a consulate general, the temporary appointment will
be made by the diplomatic representative."
"471. The compensation of a vice-consul-general, vice-consul, or a vice-commercial agent is provided for only from that
of the principal officer. The rules in respect to his compensation are as follows, viz.:
"1. In case the principal officer is absent on leave for sixty
days or less, in any one calendar year, and does not visit the
United States, the vice-consular officer acting in his place is
entitled to one half of the compensation of the office from the
date of assuming its duties, unless there is an agreement for
a different rate, the principal officer receiving the remainder.
But after the expiration of the sixty days, or after the expiration of the principal's leave of absence (if less than sixty days),
the vice-consular officer is entitled to the full compensation of
the office.
"2. If the principal visits the United States on such leave
and returns to his post, the foregoing rule will include the
time of transit both from and to his post, as explained in paragraph 460. But if the principal does not return to his post,
either because of resignation or otherwise, the rule will embrace only the time of absence, not exceeding sixty days,

UNITED STATES v. EATON.
Opinion of the Court.

together with the time of transit from his post to his residence
in the United States."
It is plain that the above sections of the Revised Statutes
confer upon the President full power, in his discretion, to ap:
point vice-consuls and fix their compensation ; that they forbid
any appointment, except in accordance with the regulations
adopted by the President, with a limitation, however, that
the compensation of these officers, if appointed, should be
solely "out of the allowance made by law for the principal
consular officer in whose place such appointment shall be
made." The regulations just quoted come clearly within the
power thus delegated. The legality of the appointment in
question is then first to be determined by ascertaining whether
it was authorized by the regulations. Before analyzing the
text of the regulations their general purpose must be borne in
mind. The first section referred to, (36,) lodges the power in
the Secretary of State in all cases to appoint a vice-consul or
vice-consul-general. The manifest object of the provision was
to prevent the continued performance of consular duties from
being interrupted by any temporary cause, such as absence,
sickness or even during an interregnum caused by death and
before an incumbent could be appointed. This was secured
by the designation in advance of a subordinate and temporary
official who, in the event of the happening of the foregoing
conditions, would be present to discharge the duties. Section
87 provided for a condition of affairs not embraced in section
36, that is, for the case where there would arise a temporary
inability to perform duty on the part of both the consul and
vice-consul. The two provisions together secure an unbroken
performance of consular duties by creating the necessary
machinery to have within reach one qualified to perform
them, free from any vicissitude which might befall either
the regular incumbent of the office of consul or the vice
appointee.
In view of the recognition of Eaton by the State Department and the express approval of his bond as vice-consul, it
would result that, at least from the date of the official action
of the Secretary of State, he would be entitled to be treated

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

as appointed by that officer under section 36. But as the sum
of the salary allowed by the court below antedated the approval of the bond, we pretermit this question, and come to
consider whether Eaton's designation was within the regulation for emergency appointments provided in section 87.
The first requisite for calling the emergency power into
play exacted by this regulation was, that there should be a
vacancy in the office both of consul-general and vice-consul.
It is clear that the findings establish that there was such vacancy within the meaning of the regulation. The fact that
the minister resident and consul-general had obtained a leave
of absence from the President, and was sick and unable to discharge his duties, and that the vice-consul previously appointed
had not qualified, and was absent from Siam, did not, it is
argued, justify an emergency appointment, because these facts
did not create a vacancy in the narrower sense of that word.
But the vacancy to which regulation 87 relates cannot be construed in a technical sense without doing violence to both the
letter and spirit of the statute which authorized the regulation,
and without destroying the true relation and harmonious operation of the two rules on the subject expressed in sections
36 and 87. That the statute did not contemplate a merely
technical vacancy in the office of a consul-general, before a
vice-consul could be appointed, clearly results from the fact
that it defines the latter and subordinate officer as one "who
shall be substituted temporarily to fill the places of consulsgeneral . . . when they shall be temporarily absent or
relieved from duty." The power to make the appointment
when the consul-general was only temporarily absent of necessity conveyed authority to do so, although there might be no
vacancy in the office but simply an absence of the principal
officer. The provision of the statute limiting the pay of the
vice-consul or temporary officer out of the pay of the principal official, the incumbent, is also susceptible of but one construction, that is, that the temporary officer could be called
upon to discharge the duties, even although there was an incumbent where from absence or other adequate cause he ceased
temporarily to perform his duties. Regulation 36, adopted in

UNITED STATES v. EATON.
Opinion of the Court.

pursuance of the statute and providing for the appointment of
vice-consuls simultaneously or concurrently with the appointment of consuls, and regulating their pay, is as clear on this
subject as is the statute. As regulation 87 but adds another
safeguard to that created by the general terms of 36, by providing for a contingency not contemplated in 36, that is, the
case of vacancy in both the consular and vice-consular offices,
it follows that the word "vacancy" in 87 imports provision
for a condition like unto that contemplated by the law and
provided for in 36. Looking at the two regulations together,
and taking in view their purpose, it is obvious that the appointment of the temporary officer for which they both provide depended not solely on a technical vacancy, but included
a case where there arose a mere absence or inability of the
principal and vice-officer to discharge the duties of the consular office.
Nor is it true to say that because regulation 87 confers the
power to appoint an emergency vice-consul-general "on the
diplomatic representative," therefore Boyd, who was both
minister resident and consul-general, was without authority to
make a temporary appointment to the latter office. The
argument by which this proposition is supported is as follows: As Boyd filled both offices, if there was inability to
discharge the duties of the one, there was also like inability
as to the other, and therefore incapacity to designate in one
character a temporary officer to fill the duties of the other.
The error here lies in assuming that because an official is
temporarily prevented from performing the duties of his office
thereby he becomes without capacity to make an emergency
appointment. There is no essential identity between the two
conditions, and it was because of their evident distinction that
the regulations caused the existence of one condition, the temporary failure to perform duty, to give rise to the other; that
is, the birth of the power to make the temporary appointment.
It would lead to an absurd conclusion to construe thg regulation as meaning that the very circumstance which generated
the power to make the appointment had the necessary effect
of preventing the coming into being of the power created.

OCTOBER TERMT,

1897.

Opinion of the Court.

If the two offices of minister resident and consul-general be
treated as distinct and separate functions, although vested in the
same natural person, the authority was clearly in the minister
to appoint the vice-consul-general. If, on the other hand, the
two functions be considered as indivisible the like result follows, since the mere fact that the officer had obtained a leave
or was sick and unable to be present in his office and discharge
its duties did not deprive him of the capacity to make a temporary appointment. In its ultimate analysis, the proposition
we have just considered substantially maintains that in no
case where the duties of the minister resident and consulgeneral are united in one person can an emergency consulgeneral be designated under section 87. It would follow that
in every such case where leave of absence was granted or sickness arose, and there was no vice-consul-general present, the
public interest must inevitably suffer in consequence of the
closing of the consular office. But the very purpose of
the statute and regulations was to guard against such a contingency. The evil consequences to result from admitting the
proposition is conceded, but the result is attributed not to
error in the argument, but to a presumed omission in the regulations, which should, it is urged, be corrected, not by judicial
construction, but by an amendment or change in the regulations. The error in the proposition, however, cannot be
obscured by assigning the consequences which flow from it to
a defect in the regulations, when, if a sound rule of interpretation be applied, the supposed omission does not arise.
The construction rendered necessary by a consideration of
the text of the statute and the regulations, by the remedy
intended to be afforded, and the evil which it was their purpose to frustrate, is that the power to designate in case of the
absence or the temporary inability of the consul-general was
lodged in a superior officer, if there was such officer in the
country where the consul discharged his duty, and, if not, on
the happening of the conditions contemplated by the rule the
officer highest in rank was authorized to make the temporary
appointment. Doubtless it was this construction which caused
the Department of State to recognize Eaton's appointment

UNITED STATES v. EATON.
Opinion of the Court.

and the Secretary of State to approve his bond as vice-consulgeneral. The interpretation given to the regulations by the
department charged with their execution, and by the official
who has the power, with the sanction of the President, to
amend them, is entitled to the greatest weight, and we see no
reason in this case to doubt its correctness.
The claim that Congress was without power to vest in the
President the appointment of a subordinate officer called a
vice-consul, to be charged with the duty of temporarily performing the functions of the consular office, disregards both
the letter and spirit of the Constitution. Although article II,
section 2, of the Constitution requires consuls to be appointed
by the President "by and with the advice and consent of the
Senate," the word "consul" therein does not embrace a subordinate and temporary offi6er like that of vice-consul as defined
in the statute. The appointment of such an officer is within
the grant of power expressed in the same section, saying "but
the Congress may by law vest the appointment of such inferior officers, as they think proper, in the President alone, in
the courts of law or in the heads of departments." Because
the subordinate officer is charged with the performance of the
duty of the superior for a limited time and under special
and temporary conditions, he is not thereby transformed into
the superior and permanent official. To so hold would render
void any and every delegation of power to an inferior to perform under any circumstances or exigency the duties of a
superior officer, and the discharge of administrative duties
°would be seriously hindered. The manifest purpose of Congress in classifying and defining the grades of consular offices,
in the statute to which we have referred, was to so limit the
period of duty to be performed by the vice-consuls and thereby
to deprive them of the character of consuls in the broader and
more permanent sense of that word. A review of the legislation on the subject makes this quite clear. Section 1674,
Revised Statutes, took its source in "An Act to regulate the
Diplomatic and Consular Systems of the United States,"
approved August 18, 1856, c. 127, 11 Stat. 52. Whilst in the
earlier periods ot the Government, officers known as vice-

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

consuls were appointed by the President and confirmed by
the Senate, the officials thus designated were not subordinate
and temporary, but were permanent and in reality principal
officials. 7 Opinions Attorneys Gen. 2-17; 3 Jefferson's Writings, 188. During the period, however, whilst the office of
vice-consul was considered as an independent and separate
function, requiring confirmation by the Senate, where a vacancy in a consular office arose by death of the incumbent,
and the duties were discharged by a person who acted temporarily, without any appointment whatever, it would seem
that the practice prevailed of paying such officials as de facto
officers. In 1832 the Department of State submitted to Mr.
Attorney General Taney the question of whether the son of a
deceased consul, who lad remained in the consular office and
discharged its duties, was entitled to the pay of the office. In
replying, the Attorney General said:
"If, after the death of Mr. Coxe, his son performed the
services, and incurred the expenses of a residence there, and
his acts have been recognized by the Government, I do not
perceive why he should not receive the compensation fixed by
law for such services. He was de facto consul for the time
and the public received the benefit.

.

.

The practice of

the Government sanctions this opinion, as appears by the
papers before me; and in several instances similar to this
since the law of 1810, the salary has been paid.

.

.

The

public interest requires that the duties of the office should be
discharged by some one; and where, upon the death of the
consul, a person who is in possession of the papers of the consulate, enters on the discharge of its duties, and fulfils them
to the satisfaction of the Government, I do not perceive why
he should not be recognized as consul for the time he acted as
such, and performed the services to the public, and if he is so
recognized, the law of Congress entitles him to his salary."
2 Opinions Attorneys Gen. 523, 524.
The terms of the law and its construction, in practice for
more than forty years,*sustain the theory that a vice-consul is
a mere subordinate official and we do not doubt its correctness.
We come, then, to consider the errors assigned as to the

UNITED STATES v. EATON.
Opinion of the Court.

amount of the salary. Prior to February 26, 1883, the consular official at Bangkok was of the third class, and his salary
was $3000. At the date mentioned, an appropriation was
made for minister resident and consul-general to Siam, $5000.
22 Stat. 4241, c. 56. It was on this salary, which was reiterated
in subsequent appropriations, that the allowance to Eaton was
computed by the accounting officer of the Treasury, and
adjudged by the court below. It is first claimed that as the
vice, appointment related only to the consul-general's office and not to that of minister resident, there was error in
computing the allowance on the basis of the salary of both
offices. Although both the statute and the regulations provide for the payment of the vice official from that of the
principal officer, and of this fact Congress presumably had
knowledge, yet in no case for the appropriation for the salary
of the minister resident and consul-general to Siam has there
been an attribution of a portion thereof to one function and
another part to the other. On the contrary, Congress has
treated the compensation of the two as an indivisible unit. As
the duties of the two offices have thus been inseparably blended
by Congress, and presumably the performance of the function
of one office embraced of necessity the discharge of the duties
of the other, we do not think the accounting officers erred in
treating the salary fixed for the joint service as indivisible,
and in not attempting an apportionment, when Congress had
failed to direct that such division be made, or to furnish the
method of making it. Indeed, the finding that Eaton executed all the duties of both offices required of him by the
State Department, during his temporary tenure, implies that
he performed, at the request of the State Department, as consul-general all the functions of minister resident. Thus the
facts bring the case directly within Revised Statutes, § 1738,
which provides that a consular officer may exercise diplomatic
functions in the country to which he is appointed, when there
is no officer of the United States empowered to discharge such
duties therein, and when the consular officer is "expressly
authorized by the President to do so." Conclusive cogency results from these considerations when it is borne in mind that

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

by the treaty between Siam and the United States there was
but one diplomatic and consular officer of the United States in
Siam, and that by the express terms of one of the later treaties
with Siam the word " consul-general" of the United States
therein used is defined to include any consular officer of the
United States in Siam. 23 Stat. 782, 783.
It is further argued that as the vice-consul is required by
law (Rev. Stat. § 1698) before he enters on the execution of
his trust to give bond, that there was error in allowing Eaton
compensation for. a period prior to the approval of his bond
by the Secretary of State on April 3, 1893. The finding by
the court below that Eaton entered on the discharge of his
duties when designated, at once communicated with the
Department of State, and was recognized as consul-general
and allowed to perform all the duties of that office, answers
this contention. It is settled that statutory provisions of the
character of those referred to are directory and not mandatory.
In United States v. Bradley, 10 Pet. 343, which was a suit
upon a bond given by one Hall as paymaster, it was contended
that as the bond required by the statute to be executed before
an appointee could enter upon the duties of the office had not
been furnished, Hall was not accountable as paymaster for
moneys received by him from the Government. The court,
however, held otherwise, saying, per Story, J. (p. 365): "The
giving of the bond was a mere ministerial act for the security
of the Government, and not a condition precedent to his authority to act as paymaster. Having received the public
moneys as paymaster, he must account for them as paymaster." In United States v. Zinn, 15 Pet. 290, suit was
brought upon an undertaking executed by Linn as receiver of
public moneys, with sureties. A contention was advanced like
that made in the Bradley case. The undertaking in question
was not executed under seal, while the statute required that the
appointee should, before entering upon the duties of the office,
execute a "bond." In holding the undertaking enforceable as
a common law obligation, and answering the claim that it was
not valid for want of a consideration, the court, per Thompson, J., said (p. 313): "The emoluments of the office were the

UNITED STATES v. EATON.
Opinion of the Court.

considerations allowed him for the execution of the duties of
his office; and his appointment and commission entitled him
to receive this compensation, whether he gave any security or
not. His official rights and duties attached upon his appointment." And, in referring approvingly to the decision in the
B'adley case, and in reiterating the reasoning of the opinion
in that case to which we have already alluded, the court said
(p. 313): "According to this doctrine, which is undoubtedly
sound, Linn was a receiver de jure as well as de facto when
the instrument in question was given. And although the law
requiring security was directory to the officers entrusted with
taking such security, Linn was under a legal as well as a moral
obligation to give the security required by law." At page
314 it was also observed that it was not the mere appointment of Linn as receiver that formed the consideration of the
instrument sued upon, but the emoluments and benefits resulting therefrom.
It is true, as claimed by counsel for the Government, that
in the opinion delivered in the subsequent case of United
States v. LeBaron, 19 How. 73, expressions are found which
appear inconsistent with. those to which we have just called
attention. But the question presented in the LeBaron case
was as to the proper construction of the language of a bond
which had been given by a Government official, subsequent to
his permanent appointment as a deputy postmaster, which
bond was executed at the time the appointee was performing
the duties of the office under a temporary appointmbnt made
during a recess of the Senate. Suit having been brought for
a breach of the condition of the bond, it was contended that
the terms of the instrument stipulated only for liability for the
proper performance of the duties of the office under the first
appointment. It was held, however, that as the statute required the giving of bond before the appointee could enter
upon the execution of the duties of the office, it could not be
presumed that the bond was intended to relate back to an
earlier date than the time of its acceptance, and that its terms
should be given a prospective and not a retrospective operation. In the course of the reasoning on this branch of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

case general expressions were used to the effect that the appointee could not act and the bond could not take effect until
its approval; and in discussing the further contention that the
appointee was not in office under the second appointment at
the time the bond took effect, because his commission had not
been sent to him, and was not actually transmitted until after
the death of the President who bad made the appointment, it
was observed that the acts required by the statute to be performed by the appointee before he could enter on the possession of the office under his appointment were "conditions
precedent to the complete investiture of the office;" and that
"when the person has performed the required conditions, his
title to enter on the possession of the office is also complete."
But this general language must be confined to the precise
state of facts with reference to which it was used, and does
not warrant the inference that it was intended to overrule the
doctrine enunciated in the Bradley and Linn cases, which were
not even referred to. Indeed, that this was not supposed to
be the deduction proper to be drawn from the reasoning in the
LeBaron case, is shown by the fact that in the later case of
United States v. Flanders,112 U. S. 88, the doctrine of the
earlier cases was carried to its legitimate result. In the
Flanders case, the precise question raised in the case at bar
was presented and decided. A collector of internal revenue
who was required before entering upon the duties of his office
to give bond and who was also required to"take an oath before
becoming entitled to the salary or emoluments of the office,
failed to give bond or take the oath until more than two
months after he had been allowed to enter upon the duties of
the office. In a suit upon the bond, credit was claimed for
compensation for services performed during the period preceding the taking of the oath and giving of bond, and the
allowance was resisted by the Government on the ground that
under the statutory provisions referred to the right to compensation did not exist. The court, however, held otherwise,
saying (p. 91):
"If the collector is appointed, and acts and collects the
moneys, and pays them over and accounts for them, and the

UNITED STATES v. EATON.
Opinion of the Court.

Government accepts his services and receives the moneys, his
title to the compensation necessarily accrues, unless there is a
restriction growing out of the fact that another statute says
that he must take the oath ' before being entitled to any of the
salary or other emoluments' of the office.
"But we are of opinion that the statute is satisfied by holding that his title to receive, or retain, or hold, or appropriate,
the commission as compensation, does not arise until he takes
and subscribes the oath or affirmation, but that when he does
so his compensation is to be computed on moneys collected
by him, from the time when, under his appointment, he began
to perform services as collector, which the Government accepted, provided he has paid over and accounted for such
moneys."
This was evidently the view taken by the State Department,
since on January 24, 1893, when the bond was returned for
refxecution in another form, Eaton was directed to insert
therein the date of his original appointment. These considerations dispose of all the questions presented, except the contention that there was error in awarding to Eaton certain
items of fees collected and reported to the Treasury and charged
to him, included in which were commissions of $67.91 earned
on the settlement of two estates, and the sum of $5.73 disbursed by Eaton for lights upon the birthday of the King of
Siam. We need only examine the legality of the two items
just mentioned, as the sole objection made to the validity of
the others is that Eaton was not entitled to charge them, because he was not lawfully acting as consul-general.
It is contended that the fees collected for settlement of
estates should not be allowed, because the services were "official," and we are referred to paragraph 508, subdivision 69, of
the Consular Regulations of 1888, as supporting this claim.
On the part of the appellee, however, itis urged that the point
has been held otherwise in United States v. Mosby, 133 U. S.
273, where it is said a similar objection to like charges was decided to be without merit.
It was held in the .Mosby case that the Court of Claims properly allowed to Mosby - who had been consul at Hong Kong

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

from February, 1879, to July, 1885 - the sum of $8.21, as "five
per cent commission on the estate of Alice Evans, May, 1881."
In disposing of the matter the court said (p. 287) that "this
evidently was a fee in the settlement of a private estate, and
was properly allowed." It does not distinctly appear whether
the fee there considered was controlled by the Consular Regulations of 1874 or by those of 1881. This is obvious when it is
considered that the regulations of 1881 were only promulgated
in May of that year. The regulations controlling this case are
those of 1888, which in the respect in question are substantially like those of 1881, whilst fees earned prior to May, 1881,
were governed by the regulations of 1874, which differed on
the subject from those of 1881. Indeed, this difference between the two was referred to in the Alosby case, where it was
said (p. 280):
"Paragraph 321 of the Regulations of 1874 is as follows:
'321. All acts are to be regarded as "official services" when
the consul is required to use his seal and title officially, or
either of them; and the fees received therefor are to be accounted for to the Treasury of the United States.' It is to be
observed that this paragraph used the word 'required,' and
does not say that all acts are to be regarded as official services
when the consul uses his seal and title officially, or either of
them."
"Paragraph 489 of the Regulations of 1881 reads as follows:
'489. All acts or services for which a fee is prescribed in the
tariff of fees are to be regarded as official services, and the fees
received therefor are to be reported and accounted for to the
Treasury of the United States,' except when otherwise expressly stated therein."
In view of the fact that it is not certain when the fees in
question in the Mosby case were earned and of the difference
between the Consular Regulations of 1874 and 1881, we shall
not inquire into the correctness of the decision in the Mosby
case as applied to the precise facts there considered, but will
examine the question here presented in the light of the Consular Regulations of 1888 and as one of first impression. *

UNITED STATES v. EATON.
Opinion of the Court.

By section 1745 of the Revised Statutes, the President is
authorized to prescribe, from time to time, the rates or tariffs
of fees to be charged by diplomatic and consular officers for
official services, "and to designate what shall be regarded as
official services, besides such as are expressly declared by law."
Section 1709 of the Revised Statutes makes it the "duty" of
consuls and vice-consuls to administer upon the personal estate
left by any citizen of the United States who shall die within
their consulate.
The fact that the statute makes it the duty of a consul to
administer on personal estates gives rise to the clearest implication that fees for such services were official fees, and the
regulations on the subject promulgated by the President
clearly support this view. Thus, in the tariff of consular
fees contained in paragraph 508 of the Consular Regulations
of 188S it is provided, in item numbered 56, as follows:
"56. For taking into possession the personal estate of any
citizen who shall die within the limits of a consulate, inventorying, selling and finally settling and preparing or transmitting, according to law, the balance due thereon, five per
cent on the gross amount of such estate. If part of such estate
shall be delivered over before final settlement, two and one
half per cent to be charged on the part so delivered over as
is not in money, and five per cent on the gross amount of the
residue. If among the effects of the deceased are found certificates of foreign stocks, loans or other property, two and one
half per cent on the amount thereof. No charge will be made
for placing the official seal upon the personal property or
effects of such deceased citizen, or for breaking or removing
the seals."
And, by paragraph 375 of the same regulations, a consular
officer is directed to report to the Treasury Department fees
of this character, and if he be a salaried officer to hold the
same subject to the order of the department. This decisive
provision is besides supplemented by paragraph 501 of the
regulations, in which it is declared that "all acts or services
for which a fee is prescribed in the tariff of fees are to be regarded as offiial services, and the fees charged and received

OCTOBER TEIR-M, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

therefor are to be reported and accounted for to the Treasury
of the United States, except when otherwise expressly stated
therein."
As the statute made it the official duty of a consul to administer upon the estates of American citizens dying within
the consular district, and the President, by virtue of the power
vested in him, has clearly placed such duties in the category
of "official services," and required the fees earned therefor to
be accounted for as "official fees," it is plain that the accounting officer of the Treasury properly charged Eaton with the
amount of such fees, and that the Court of Claims erred in its
ruling to the contrary.
The ground of objection urged to the allowance by the
Court of Claims of the item of $5.73 is stated in the brief to
be that the disbursement "was personal or diplomatic and
wholly foreign to consular business." We are unable, however, to say that the Court of Claims erred in its finding in
respect to this item, as follows: "The petty item for lights
upon the King's birthday was approved by the Department
of State, and appears to be a charge within the discretion of
that department; it is therefore allowed."
It follows from the foregoing considerations that the only
error committed by the court below was in treating the fees
for the settlement of estates as unofficial, when they should
have been held to be official. But this does not render it
necessary to reverse the judgment in its entirety, but only
to modify the same. Rev. Stat. sec. 707; Ballew v. Uhzited
States, 160 U. S.187. This modification will be effected by
deducting from the principal sum of $3456.98, found due by
the Court of Claims, $67.91, being the amount of the fees improperly allowed. The judgment of the Court of Claims is
therefore m6dified by reducing the amount thereof to $3389.07,
and as so modified it is
Afflrmed.

