OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Syllabus.

SMYTH v. AMES.
SMYTH v. SMITH.
SMYTH v. HIGGINSON.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF NEBRASKA.
Nos. 49, 50, 51.

Argued April 5, 6, 7, 169T. -Decided

March T, 1S98.

The adequacy or inadequacy of a remedy at law for the protection of the
rights of one entitled upon any ground to invoke the powers of a Federal court, is not to be conclusively determined by the statutes of the
particular State in which suit may be brought. One who is entitled to
sue in the Federal Circuit Court may invoke its jurisdiction in equity
whenever the established principles and rules of equity permit such a
suit in that court; and he cannot be deprived of that right by reason of
his being allowed to sue at law in a state court on the same cause of
action.
A suit against individuals for the purpose of preventing them as officers of
a State from enforcing an unconstitutional enactment to the injury of the
rights of the plaintiff, is not a suit against the State within the meaning
of the Eleventh Amendment.
Until Congress, in the exercise either of the power specifically reserved by
the eighteenth section of the act of July 1, 1862, incorporating the Union
Pacific Railroad Company, or its power under the general reservation
made of authority to add to, alter, amend or repeal that act, prescribes
rates to be charged by that company, it remains with the States through
which the road passes to fix rates for transportation beginning and ending within their respective limits.
It is settled that(1) A railroad corporation is a person within the meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment declaring that no State shall deprive any person of property without due process of law, nor deny to any
person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws.
(2) A state enactment, or regulations made under the authority of a
state enactment, establishing rates for the transportation of persons or property by railroad that will not admit of the carrier
earning such compensation as under all the circumstances is just
to it and to the public, would deprive such carrier of its property
without due process of law, and deny to it the equal protection of
the laws, and would therefore be repugnant to the Fourteenth
Amendment to the Constitution of the United States.

SRYTH v. AMES.
Syllabus.
(3) While rates for the transportation of persons and property within
the limits of a State are primarily for its determination, the question whether they are so unreasonably low as to deprive the carrier of its property without such compensation as the Constitution
secures, and, therefore, without due process of law, cannot be so
conclusively determined by the legislature of the State or by
regulations adopted under its authority, that the matter may not
become the subject of judicial inquiry.
The grant to the legislature in the constitution of Nebraska of the power
to establish maximum rates for the transportation of passengers and
freight on railroads in that State has reference to " reasonable" maximum rates, as the words strongly imply that it was not intended to give a
power to fix maximum rates without regard to their reasonableness; and
as it cannot be admitted that the power granted may be exerted in derogation of rights secured by the Constitution of the United States, and
that the judiciary may not, when its jurisdiction is properly invoked,
protect those rights.
The idea that any legislature, state or Federal, can conclusively determine
for the people and for the courts that what it enacts in the form of law,
or what it authorizes its agents to do, is consistent with the fundamental
law, is in opposition to the theory of our institutions; as the duty rests
upon all courts, Federal and state, when their jurisdiction is properly
invoked, to see to it that no right secured by the supreme law of the
land is impaired or destroyed by legislation.
The reasonableness or unreasonableness of rates prescribed by a State for
the transportation of persons and property wholly within its limits must
be determined without reference to the interstate business done by the
carrier, or to the profits derived from that business. The State cannot
justify unreasonably low rates for domestic transportation, considered
alone, upon the ground that the carrier is earning large profits on its interstate business, over which, so far as rates are concerned, the State
has no control; nor can the carrier justify unreasonably high rates
on domestic business upon the ground that it will be able only in that
way to meet losses on its interstate business.
A railroad is a public highway, and none the less so because constructed
and maintained through the.agency of a corporation deriving its existence and powers from the State. Such a corporation was created for
public purposes. It performs a function of the State. Its authority to
exercise the right of eminent domain and to charge tolls was given
primarily for the benefit of the public. It is, therefore, under governmental control -subject, of course, to the constitutional guarantees
for the protection of its property. It may not fix its rates with a view
solely to its own interests, and ignore the rights of the public; but the
rights of the public would be ignored if rates for the transportation of
persons or property on a railroad were exacted without reference to the
fair value of the property used for the public or of the services rendered, and in order simply that the corporation may meet operating

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Syllabus.
expenses, pay the interest on its obligations, and declare a dividend to
stockholders.
If a railroad corporation has bonded its property for an amount that exceeds its fair value, or if its capitalization is largely fictitious, it may
not impose upon the public the burden of such increased rates as may be
required for the purpose of realizing profits upon such excessive valuation or fictitious capitalization; and the apparent value of the. property
and franchises used by the corporation, as represented by its stocks,
bonds aud obligations, is not alone to be considered when determining
the rates that may be reasonably charged.
A corporation maintaining a public highway, although it owns the property
it employs for accomplishing public objects, must be held to have accepted its rights, privileges and franchises subject to the condition that
the government creating it, or the government within whose limits it
conducts its business, may by legislation protect the people against the
exaction of unreasonable charges for the services rendered by it: but it
is equally true that the corporation performing such public services, and
the people financially interested in its business and affairs, have rights
that may not be invaded by legislative enactment in disregard of the fundamental guarantees for the protection of property.
The basis of all calculations as to the reasonableness of rates to be charged
by a corporation maintaining a highway under legislative sanction must
be the fair value of the property being used by it for the convenience of
the public ; and in order to ascertain that value, the original cost of con,truction, the amount expended in permanent improvements, the amount
and market value of its bonds and stock, the present as compared with
the original cost of construction, the probable earning capacity of the
property under particular rates prescribed by statute, and the sum required to meet operating expenses, are all matters for consideration, and
are to be given such weight as may be just and right in each case. What
the company is entitled to ask is a fair return upon the value of that
which it employs for the public convenience; and on the other hand,
what the public is entitled to demand is that no more be exacted from
it for the use of a public highway than the services rendered by it are
reasonably worth.
The effect of the Nebraska statute of 1893, entitled "An act to regulate
railroads, to classify freights, to fix reasonable maximum rates to be
charged for the transportation of freights upon each of the railroads in
the State of Nebraska, and to provide penalties for the violatfon of this
act," is to deprive each of the companies involved in these suits of the
just compensation secured to them by the Constitution of the United
States, and therefore the decree below restraining its enforcement was
correct.
If the Circuit Court finds that.the present condition of business is such as
to admit of the application of the statute to the railroad companies in
question without depriving them of just compensation, it will be its duty
to discharge the injunction heretofore granted, and to make whatever

SMYTH v. AMES.
Statement of the Case.
order is necessary to remove any obstruction placed by the decrees in these
cases in the way of the enforcement of the statute.

Tnn appellees in the first of the above cases were the plaintiffs below, and are citizens of Massachusetts and stockholders
of the Union Pacific Railway Company. They sued on behalf
of themselves and all others similarly situated. The defendants are the Union Pacific Railway Company, the St. Joseph
and Grand Island Railroad Company, the Omaha and Republican Valley Railroad Company and the Kansas City and Omaha
Railroad Company - corporations of Nebraska under the control of the Union Pacific Railway Company; certain persons,
citizens of Nebraska, who hold the offices, respectively, of
Attorney General, Secretary of State, Auditor of Public Accounts, State Treasurer, and Commissioner of Public Lands
and Buildings, and constitute the State Board of Transportation; and James C. Dahlnan, Joseph W. Edgerton and
Gilbert L. Laws, citizens of Nebraska and Secretaries of that
Board. By a supplemental bill in the same suit, certain
persons, receivers of the Union Pacific Railway Company,
were made defendants.
In the second case, some of the plaintiffs, appellees here, are
subjects of Queen Victoria, while the others are citizens of
Massachusetts. They are all stockholders of the Chicago and
Northwestern Railroad Company, a corporation organized and
existing under the laws of Illinois, Wisconsin and Iowa,
and have sued in that capacity on behalf of themselves and
all others similarly situated. The defendants are the Chicago
and Northwestern Railroad Company, the Fremont, Elkhorn
and Missouri Valley Railroad Company, a Nebraska corporation, and the Chicago, St. Paul, Minneapolis and Omaha Railway Company, a corporation organized under the laws of
Minnesota and Nebraska, both under the control of the Chicago and Northwestern Railroad Company; and the above
officers constituting the State Board of Transportation, as well
as those holding the positions of Secretaries of that Board.
In the third case, the appellees Henry L. Higginson and
others, citizens of Massachusetts, were the plaintiffs below.
They sued on behalf of themselves and all other stockholders

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

of the Chicago, Burlington and Quincy Railroad Company, a
corporation organized and existing under the laws of Illinois
and Iowa, and whose lines west of the Missouri River are
known as the Burlington and Missouri Road. The defendants
are the Chicago, Burlington and Quincy Railroad Company,
the persons composing the :Nebraska State Board of Transportation and the Secretaries of that Board.
For the sake of brevity, the Union Pacific Railway Company will be called the Union Pacific Company; the St.
Joseph and Grand Island Railroad Company, the St. Joseph
Company; the Omaha and Republican Valley Railroad Company, the Omaha Company; the Kansas City and Omaha
Railroad Company, the Kansas City Company; the Fremont,
Elkhorn and Missouri Valley Railroad Company, the Fremont
Company; the Chicago, St. Paul, Minneapolis and Omaha
Railway Company, the St. Paul Company; and the Chicago,
Burlington and Quincy Railroad Company, the Burlington
Company.
Each of these suits was brought July 28, 1893, and involves
the constitutionality of an act of the legislature of Nebraska,
approved by the Governor April 12, 1893, and which took effect August 1, 1893. It was an act "to regulate railroads, to
classify freights, to fix reasonable maximum rates to be charged
for the transportation of freights upon each of the railroads
in the State of Nebraska, and to provide penalties for the violation of this act." Acts of Nebraska, 1893, c. 21t; Compiled
Statutes of Nebraska, 1893, c. 72, Art. 12. The act is referred
to in the record as House Roll 33.
Prior to the enactment of that statute, the legislature passed
an act to regulate railroads, prevent unjust discrimination,
provide for a Board of Transportation, and define its duties,
and repeal articles 5 and 8 of chapter 72, entitled " Railroads,"
of the Revised Statutes of Nebraska, and all acts and parts of
acts in conflict therewith -the same being chapter 60 of the
Session Laws of 1887, and now article 8 of chapter 72 of
the Compiled Statutes of Nebraska of 1893. By that act
the Attorney General, Secretary of State, Auditor of Public
Accounts, State Treasurer and Commissioner of Public Lands

SMYTH v. AXES.
Statement of the Case.

and Buildings were constituted a Board of Transportation,
with power to appoint three secretaries to assist in the performance of its duties, and with authority to inquire into the
management of the business of all common carriers subject to
its provisions and obtain from them the full and complete
information necessary to enable the Board to perform its
duties and carry out the objects for which it was created.
It was also provided that, for the purposes of the act, the
Board should have power to require the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of all books, papers,
contracts, agreements and documents relating to any matter
under investigation, and to that end could invoke the aid of
any of the District Courts or of the Supreme Court of the
State; and that any court of competent jurisdiction in which
such inquiry was carried on could, in case of contumacy or
refusal to obey a subpcena issued to any common carrier or
person subject to the provisions of the act, issue an order requiring such carrier or other person to appear before the
Board, (and produce books and papers if ordered,) and give
evidence touching the matter in question; and any failure to
obey the order was punishable by the court as for contempt.
The claim that any testimony or evidence might tend to criminate the person giving evidence would not excuse the witness
from testifying, but such evidence or testimony could not be
used against him on the trial of any criminal proceeding.
The power to enact the statute whose validity is now assailed,
that is, the above statute.of August 1, 1893, regulating railroads, classifying freights, fixing reasonable maximum rates,
etc., in Nebraska, was referred by counsel to the general legislative power of the State as well as to the fourth section
of Article XI of the state constitution which provides: "Railways heretofore constructed, or that may hereafter be constructed in this State, are hereby declared public highways,
and shall be free to all persons for the transportation of their
persons and property thereon, under such regulations as may
be prescribed by law. And the legislature may from time to
time pass laws establishing reasonable maximum rates of
charges for the transportation of passengers and freight on

OCTOBER TERTAM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

the different railroads in this State. The liability of railroad
corporations as common carriers shall never be limited."
By the first section of that statute it is declared that, except
as therein otherwise provided, its provisions shall apply to all
railroad corporations, railroad companies and common carriers
engaged in Nebraska in the transportation of freight by railroad therein, and also to shipments of property made from
any point within the State to any other point within its
limits. That section provides: "The term 'railroad,' as used
in this act, shall include all bridges and ferries used or operated in connection with any railroad, and also all the road
in use by any corporation, receiver, trustee or other person
operating a railroad whether owned- or operated under contract, agreement, lease or otherwise, and the term 'trausportation' shall include all instrumentalities of shipment or
carriage, and the term 'railroad corporation' contained in
this act shall be deemed and taken to mean all corporations,
companies or individuals, now owning or operating, or which
may hereafter own or operate, any railroad, in whole or in
part, in this State, and the provisions of this act, except as
in this act otherwise provided, shall apply to all persons,
firms and companies, and to all associations of persons,
whether incorporated or otherwise, that shall do business
as common carriers of freight upon any of the lines of railway in this State, the same as to railroad corporations herein
mentioned." § 1.
The second section provides that all freight or property to
be transported by any railroad company or companies mentioned in the first section, "from any point in the State of
1ebraska to any other point in said State, shall be classified
as hereinafter in this section provided, and any other or different classification of freight, which would raise the rates on
class or commodity of freights above the rates prescribed in
this act, except as hereinafter otherwise provided, is prohibited
and declared to be unlawful. The classification established
by this act shall be known as the 'Nebraska Classification.'
Freights shall be billed at the actual weight unless otherwise
directed in the classification -twenty thousand pounds shall

SAMYTH v. AMES.
Statement of the Case.

be a carload, and all excessive weights shall be at the same
rate per hundred pounds, except in carloads of light and
bulky articles, and unless otherwise specified in the classification. When the classification makes an article 'released'
or ' owner's risk,' the same at carrier's risk will be the next
rate higher, unless otherwise provided in the classification.
Articles rated first class, 'released' or owner's risk, if taken
at 'carrier's risk,' will be 11 times first class, unless otherwise
provided in the classification. All articles carried according
to this classification at ' owner's risk' of fire, leakage, damage
or breakage, must be so receipted for by agents of the 'railroad, and so considered by owners and shippers. Signing a
release bontract by a shipper shall not release the railroad
company for loss or damages caused by carelessness or negligence of its employ~s." § 2.
Following this section, in the body of the statute, are tables
of the classification of freights.
The third section is in these words: "That each of the railroads in the State of :Nebraska shall charge for the transportation of freight from any point in said State, to any other
point in said State, no higher or greater rate of charge than
is by this act fixed as the reasonable maximum rate for
the distance hauled, and the reasonable maximum rates for the
transportation of freight by railroad from any point in the State
of Nebraska to any other point in said State are declared and
established to be as hereinafter in this section fixed for the
distance named, and any higher or greater rate for the distance hauled than that herein fixed and established, is prohibited and declared to be unlawful; and the reasonable
maximum rate herein fixed and established shall be known
as the Nebraska Schedule of Reasonable Maximum Rates."

S3.
Here follow tables of the rates prescribed by the statute.
That the full scope of the act may appear, its remaining
sections are given as follows :
"§ 4. All railroads or parts thereof which have been built
in this State since the 1st day of January, 1889, or may be
built before the 31st day of December, 1899, shall be exempt

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

from the provisions of this act until the 31st day of December, 1899.
"§ 5. Whenever any railroad company or companies in this
State shall, in a proper action, show by competent testimony
that the schedule of rates prescribed by the act are unjust and
unreasonable, such railroad or railroads shall be exempt thereAll such actions shall be
from as hereinafter provided.
brought before the Supreme Court, in the name of the railroad
company or companies bringing the same, and against the
State of Nebraska, and upon the hearing thereof, if the court
shall become, satisfied that the rates herein prescribed are
unjust in so far as they relate to the railroad bringing the
action, [it] may issue their [its] order directing the Board of
Transportation to permit such railroad to raise its rates to any
sum in the discretion of the Board: Provided, That in no
case shall the rates so raised be fixed at a higher sum than
that charged by such railroad on the first day of January,
1893. Whenever any railroad company in this State shall
claim the benefit of the provisions of this section, it shall be
the duty of such railroad company to show to the court all
matters pertaining to the management thereof, and if it shall
appear that said railroad company is operating branch lines of
railroad in connection with its main line, and all included in
one system, then, and in that case, it shall be the duty of the
railroad company to show to the court upon which branch or
branches, or upon which portion of such system the schedule
of rates prescribed in this act is unjust and unreasonable, and
only such portions shall be exempted from the provisions
thereof : Provided,That in no case shall a railroad company
be allowed to pool the earnings of all the lines operated under
one management, where more than one line is so operated, for
the purpose of lowering the general average.
"§ 6. That the Board of Transportation is hereby empowered and directed to reduce the rates on any class or commodity in the schedule of rates fixed in this act, whenever it
shall seem just and reasonable to a majority of said Board
so to reduce any rate; and said Board of Transportation is
hereby empowered and directed to revise said classification of

SM YTH v. AMES.
Statement of the Case.

freight as hereinbefore in this act established, whenever it
shall appear to a majority of said Board just and reasonable
to revise said classification. Provided: That said Board of
Transportation shall never change the classification in the
act established, so that by such change or classification the
rates on any freight will become higher or greater than in
this act fixed. When any reduction of rates or revision of
classification shall be made by said Board, it shall be the duty
of said Board to cause notice thereof to be published two
successive weeks in some public newspaper, published in the
city of Lincoln, in this State, which notice shall state the date
of the taking effect of such change of rate or classification,
and said change of rate or classification so made by the said
Board and published in said notice, shall take effect at the
time so stated in said notice.
"1§7. That articles not enumerated in said classification in
section two of this act established, not rated in said schedule
of rates in section three of this act, shall be classed with
analogous articles in said classification, and where there is any
conflict between said classification and said schedule of maximum rates, said rates shall govern.
"§ 8. That in case any common carrier subject to the provisions of this act shall do, or cause to be done, or permit to
be done, any act, matter or thing in this act prohibited or
declared to be unlawful, or shall omit to do any act, matter
or thing in this act required to be done, such common carrier
shall be liable to the person or persons injured thereby, for all
damages sustained in consequence of any such violation of the
provisions of this act together with cost of suit and a reasonable counsel or attorney's fee, to be fixed by the court in which
the same is heard on appeal or otherwise, which shall be taxed
and collected as part of the costs in the case: Provided, That
in all cases demand in writing on said common carrier shall
be made for the money damages sustained before suit is
brought for recovery under this section, and that no suit
shall be brought until the expiration of fifteen days after such
demand.
"1§9. That in case any common carrier subject to the pro-

476

OCTOBER TERI, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

visions of this act shall do, or cause to be done, or permit to
be done, any act, matter or thing in this act prohibited or
declared to be unlawful, or shall omit to do any act, matter
or thing in this act required to be done, such common carrier
shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined in any sum not less
than one thousand dollars, nor more than five thousand dollars for the first offence; and for the second offence not less
than five thousand dollars, nor more than ten thousand dollars; and for the third offence, not less than ten thousand
dollars, nor more than twenty thousand dollars; and for every
subsequent offence and conviction thereof, shall be liable to a
fine of twenty-five thousand dollars: Provided, That in all
cases under this act either party shall have the right of trial

by jury.
"§ 10. All acts and parts of acts inconsistent herewith are
repealed."
These cases were heard at the same time, and in the one in
which the Union Pacific Company, the St. Joseph Company,
the Omaha Company and the Kansas City Company were
defendants, it was adjudged in the Circuit Court-Mr. Justice Brewer presiding -as follows: "That the said railroad
companies and each and every of them, and said receivers, be
perpetually enjoined and restrained from making or publish-ing a schedule of rates to be charged by them or any or either
of them for the transportation of freight on and over their
respective roads in this State from one point to another
therein, whereby such rate shall be reduced to those prescribed by the act of the legislature of this State, called in
the bill filed therein, 'IHouse Roll 33,' and entitled 'An act
to regulate railroads, to classify freights, to fix reasonable
maximum rates to be charged for the transportation of freight
upon each of the railroads in the State of Nebraska, and to
provide penalties for the violation of this act,' approved April
12, 1893, and below those now charged by said companies or
either of them or their receivers, or in anywise obeying, observing or conforming to the provisions, commands, injunctions
and prohibitions of said alleged act; and that the Board of
Transportation of said State and the members and secretaries

SMYTt v. AMES.
Statement of the Case.

of said Board be in like manner perpetually enjoined and
restrained from entertaining, hearing or determining any
complaint to it against said railroad companies or any or
either of them or their receivers, for or on account of any
act or thing by either of said companies or their receivers,
their officers, agents, servants or employ s, done, suffered or
omitted, which may be forbidden or commanded by said
alleged act, and from instituting or prosecuting or causing to
be instituted or prosecuted any action or proceeding, civil or
criminal, against either of said companies or their receivers
for any act or thing done, suffered or omitted, which may
be forbidden or commanded by said act, and particularly from
reducing its present rates of charges for transportation of freight
to those prescribed in said act, and that the Attorney General
of this State be in like manner enjoined from bringing, aiding
in bringing or causing to be brought, any proceeding by way
of injunction, mandamus, civil action or indictment against
said companies or either of them or their receivers for or on
account of any action or omission on their part commanded
or forbidden by the said act. And that a writ of injunction
issue out of this court and under the seal thereof, directed to
the said defendants, commanding, enjoining and restraining
them as hereinbefore set forth, which injunction shall be
perpetual save as is hereinafter provided. And it is further
declared, adjudged and decreed that the act above entitled
is repugnant to the Constitution of the United States, forasmuch as by the provisions of said act the said defendant railroad companies may not exact for the transportation of freight
from one point to another within this State, charges which
yield to the said companies, or either of them, reasonable
compensation for such services. It is further ordered, adjudged and decreed that the defendants, members of the
Board of Transportation of said State, may hereafter when
the circumstances have changed so that the rates fixed in the
said act shall yield to the said companies reasonable compensation for the services aforesaid, apply to this court by supplemental bill or otherwise, as they may be advised, for a further
order in that behalf. It is further ordered, adjudged and

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Mr. Webster's Argument for Appellants.

decreed that the plaintiffs recover of the said defendants their
costs to be taxed by the clerk."
The above decree was in accordance with the prayer for
relief. A similar decree was rendered in each of the other
cases.
The present appeals were prosecuted by the defendants
constituting the State Board of Transportation, as well as by
the defendants who are Secretaries of that Board.
Xr. John L. Webster for appellants. Mfr. A. S. Churchill,
attorney general of the State of Nebraska, was on his brief.
Before taking up the question as to the validity of the act
in question, we desire to call the attention of the court to
some of the propositions stated by Mr. Justice Brewer in his
opinion, filed herein; for we conceive that these propositions,
thus stated, contributed largely to what we believe to be an
erroneous conclusion.
In that opinion it is stated: "Property invested in railroads is as much protected from public appropriation as any
other. If taken for public use, its value must be paid for.
He may have made his fortune dealing in slaves, or
as a lobbyist, or in any other way obnoxious to the public;
but, if he has acquired the legal title to the property, he is
protected in its possession, and cannot be disturbed until the
receipt of its actual cash value. The same rule controls if
railroad property is sought to be appropriated. No inquiry
is open as to whether the owner has received gifts from the
State, or individuals, or whether he has, as owner, managed
the property well or ill, or so as to acquire a large fortune
therefrom. It is enough that he owns the property; has the
legal title; and so owning, he must be paid the actual value
of that property.

.

.

.

These propositions, in respect to

condemnation proceedings, are so well settled that no one
ever questions them."
* We take no exception to this proposition. But it is equally
well settled that, where such property is incumbered, that the
incumbrance cuts no figure in ascertaining the cash value of

SMYTH v. AMES.
Mr. Webster's Argument for Appellants.

the property in such condemnation proceedings. The party
holding such incumbrance would be entitled to the proceeds
to the extent of such incumbrance: provided, it did not exceed
the actual cash value so ascertained; but where it did, the
property would be discharged of the lien, and the party holding such incumbrance would have to look to the personal liability of the obligor.
Again, it is said in the opinion of the court: "If it be said
that the rates must be such as to secure to the owners a reasonable per cent on the money invested, it will be reinembered that many things have happened to make the investment far in excess of the actual value of the propertyinjudicious contracts, poor engineering, unusually high cost of
material, rascality on the part of those engaged in the construction or management of the property. These, and many
other things, as is well known, are factors which have largely
entered into the investment with which many railroad properties stand charged. Now, if the public was seeking to
take title to the railroad by condemnation, the present value
of the property, and not the cost, is that which it would have
to pay." Then, indeed, would the loss arising from "injudicious contracts, poor engineering, unusually high cost of material" and the "rascality on the part of those engaged in the
construction or management of the property" fall upon those
who made the "injudicious contracts" or employed "poor
engineering" to be done, or paid "unusually high cost for
material," or engaged the rascals in the construction or
management of the property.
And why should they not?
Did not the investor, in either the stock of the company, or
in its bonds, take his chances in these respects, just the same
as the investor in the stock of any other business corporation,
or in the bonds or mortgages upon any other property?
Why, may we not ask, should the public bear the burden
imposed by "injudicious contracts," or "poor engineering," or
the "unusually high price paid for material," or the "rascality on the part of those engaged in the construction or
management of the property" ? The public had nothing to
do with any of these. The public did not invest upon such

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Mr. Webster's Argument for Appellants.,

chances. The public can justly be called upon to pay such
reasonable rates as will yield a reasonable compensation for
the use of the fair and reasonable value of the property, and
not more. If investors put their money into the hands of
those who thus manage the property, or in securities upon
properties thus constructed, or managed, it was either their
misfortune or their folly; but it affords no excuse for burdening the public with high rates, to the profit either of the rascals or of those who trusted in them.
His honor further added in the opinion: 1 Nevertheless, the
amount of money that has gone into the railroad property as
the actual investment, as expressed, theoretically at least, by
the amount of stock and bonds, is not to be ignored, even
though such sum is far in excess of the present value."
Is it possible that the patrons of a railroad, who had nothing
to do with the injudicious contract, poor engineering, unusually
high cost of material, rascality on the part of those engaged
in the construction or management, must bear all the burden
of these injudicious contracts, poor engineering and rascality
in the construction or management, in order that the poor engineers and rascals or those who employed them may reap the
benefit? If this be so, then, indeed, the time has actually
come when the railroad lord can say to the public: "Ye know
I reap where I had sown not, and that I gathered where I had
not strewn."
Again, his honor tells us that: "The transportation of persons and property by private individuals and corporations has
become a business and not a system."
Then he further says: "Now in the carrying on of any
private enterprise, increase of business, with increase of profits,
is a stimulating thought, and for this every variety of action is
taken. Advancement, solicitation, inducement, favors are all
freely resorted to, but with the single purpose of larger business and greater gain. It is not strange that in carrying on
of transportation all the characteristics of other kinds of business are found."
There can be no doubt about the correctness of either of
these propositions. We admit their truth, and insist that

SMYTHE v. AMES.
Mr. Webster's Argument for Appellants.

there shall be applied to this business and to these inducements
the same rules of law which are applied under similar circumstances to other business and to like inducements in the management of other business enterprises.
Without any statute regulating rates, a common carrier of
persons or property, in the absence of a specific contract, is, at
common law, bound to carry either persons or property for a
reasonable compensation.
So, in the absence of a specific contract, a tenant is bound
to pay a reasonable rental for the use of the leased premises.
Thus, a large number of instances might be cited where the
law would imply a reasonable compensation for the use of
property or persons, or both; yet, we know of no instance
where, in arriving at what is a just or reasonable compensation,
either the incumbrance upon the property, or the unusually
high price paid for material, or the lack of skill in the mechanic who constructed the property, or the rascality of those
in charge of the construction or management was taken into
consideration by any court in determining what was a reasonable compensation. These propositions are elementary. It
needs no citation of authorities to support them.
Then, if railroading is a business, and no one would dispute
it, we can see no reason why it should not be governed by the
same rules of law as any other business is in determining what
is and what is not a reasonable compensation.
Every presumption is in favor of the validity of the act in
question. The act will not be presumed to be repugnant to
the Constitution of the United States, or of the State; and it
must be made to appear affirmatively that it is so repugnant to
the Constitution.
In Reagan v. Farmers Loan and Trust Company, 154 U. S.
36 395, it is said: "It is not to be supposed that the legislature of any State, or a commission appointed under the authority of any State, will ever engage in a deliberate attempt
to cripple or destroy institutions of such great value to the
community as the railroads, but will always act with the sincere purpose of doing justice to the owners of railroad property, as well as to other individuals."
VOL. CLXIX-31

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Mr. Webster's Argument for Appellants.

This being so, then it must be made clearly to appear from
the pleadings and the evidence that the legislature, in passing
the act in question, did not, in fact, do justice to the several
railroads affected by the act; and that by reason thereof the
plaintiffs below were injured in their property rights as stockholders in such company or companies. It must follow that,
before the decree below can be sustained, the following propositions of fact must have been established by competent evidence: (a) That the plaintiffs below were stockholders in the
respective corporations, as alleged; (b) That each of the railroads is operated in a prudent and economical manner; (o)
That, when so managed, the reduction of rates provided for
in the act, when taken in connection with all the other earnings of the several companies, will deprive such company of a
just or reasonable compensation for the services so performed;
(d) The plaintiffs below attacked the constitutionality of the
act; the burden, therefore, was upon them to establish every
essential element of fact necessary to show the invalidity of
the act.
The answer of appellants puts in issue every one of the above
questions of fact, save the one as to the plaintiffs below being
stockholders, which is admitted. We call the court's attention, then, to the fact that there is wanting any competent
evidence tending to show that either of these railroads is prudently or economically managed; and to the further fact
that there is not any evidence tending to show the income
from all the business of the several companies from all
sources.
After paying expenses of operation, who is to determine
what are reasonable rates?
Lord Ellenborough, in Aldnut v. Inglis, 12 East, 527,
537, said: "There is no doubt that the general principle is
favored, both in law and justice, that every man may fix what
price he pleases upon his own property, or the use of it; but
if for a particular purpose the public have a right to resort to
his premises and make use of them, and he have a monopoly
in them for that purpose, if he will take the benefit of that
monopoly, he must, as an equivalent, perform the duty at-

SMYTH v. AMES.
Mr. Webster's Argument for Appellants.

tached to it on reasonable terms." This is cited with approval
in Munn v. Illinois, 94 1T. S. 127; and it is said in the latter case, page 132: "Certainly, if any business can be clothed
'with a public interest and cease to bejurisprivationly,' this
has been."
If it be true that railroad property ceases to be jurisprivati,
and is clothed with a quasi-public use, whenever the operation
of such railroad is undertaken, then it must follow as a corollary thereto that all parties dealing with such property, or
taking security upon such property, must take such property
or security thereon with notice of such quasi-public use. In
Reagan v. .Aercantile Tr'ust Co., 154 U. S. 413, 416, in the
opinion it is said: "By the act of incorporation, Congress authorized the company to build its road through the State of
Texas. It knew that, when constructed, a part of its business
would be the carrying of persons and property from points
within the State to other points also within the State; and
that in so doing it would be engaged in a business, control of
which is nowhere by the Federal Constitution given to Congress. It must have known that, in the nature of things, the
control of that business would be exercised by the State."
If this presumption of knowledge is true of Congress and as
to the holders of the bonds of the Union Pacific Company, it
must be equally true of the holders of bonds of each of the
other companies to these actions. It follows then:
(1) The right of the State to fix a reasonable maximum
freight rate upon all freight shipped from one point in the State
to another point in the State is paramount to any right which
is or may be acquired by any bondholder, whether that bondholder be the Government or a private individual.
(2) The right of the State being a superior right, in determining what is a reasonable rate, the interest of such bondholder cannot be set up or considered as against the interest
of the State.
(3) In determining the reasonableness of the rates it cannot
be other than such a rate as will pay the expense of operation, when prudently and economically managed, and something more, at least, for the use of the company.

OCTOBER TERA,

1897.

Mr. Webster's Argument for Appellants.

The next question which naturally arises is, who is to determine what such excess above operating expenses shall be?
Is it a question for the courts, or is it a question of public
policy, and therefore a question for the legislature?
It is stated in the opinion in the RlailroadCommission case,
116 U. S. 307, that : "The power to regulate is not a power to
destroy, and the limitation is not the equivalent to confiscation.
Under the pretext of regulating fares and freights, the State
cannot require a railroad corporation to carry persons or
property without reward; neither can it do that which in law
amounts to a taking of private property for public use, without just compensation or without due process of law." This
quotation is cited by Justice Brewer in the Reagan case, 151
U. S.369, 398, with approval.
A careful review of all the cases, both state and Federal, we
think, will show the true rule to be that, so long as the legislation itself does not operate to deprive the individual or
corporation of his or its property, nor require the actual use
of the property of the individual or corporation without compensation, then such legislation cannot be said to be in conflict with either the state or Federal Constitution. What
such compensation shall be, after paying operating expenses,
is purely a question of public policy to be determined by the
legislature and not by the courts. If this be true, certainly
there was error in the Circuit Court, decreeing a perpetual
injunction against the law in question. The evidence establishes beyond question that the rates fixed under this law will
produce an income considerably more than sufficient to pay
operating expenses.
So long as an act is constitutional in all other respects and
provides a rate sufficient to more than pay operating expenses,
it is a question of legislative policy and one which the courts
cannot inquire into. It cannot be successfully contended that
so long as the rate fixed pays something above operating
expenses to the corporation for the carrying of property, it
amounts to the taking either of the use or of the property.
It may be said that just compensation is equivalent to reasonable compensation. Then the question is, who is to determine

SMYTH v. AMES.
Mr. Webster's Argument for Appellants.

the question of reasonableness? Is it the courts, or is it the
legislature ? It seems to us, that if the legislation does not
actually deprive the corporation of its property, nor require
it to carry persons or property without reward, sufficient to
more than pay operating expenses economically administrated,
it is purely a question of public policy into which the courts
cannot inquire.
The Constitution itself contains no provision restricting the
power of the States as to such legislation. It has, indeed,
been contended that, where such legislation was applied to a
corporation, it constituted a violation of a contract with the
State embodied in the charter, and was thus brought within
the provisions of article 1, section 10. But this argument
has been rejected by the Supreme Court, even when the
charter contained no express power of amendment and repeal.
See Ruggles v. Illinois, 108 U. S. 526. It was early decided
that the first eight amendments did not limit the power of the
States, Barron v. Baltimore, 7 Pet. 243; and it may now be
assumed that the power of the states in this respect is unlimited, so far as the Federal Constitution is concerned, unless
restricted by the provision of the Fourteenth Amendment,
that no State shall "deprive any person of life, liberty or
property without due process of law, nor deny to any person
within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws." The
question is, in fact, therefore purely of the construction and
scope of that amendment.
In St. Louis & San .fr znisco Railway v. Gill, 156 U. S.
649, Mr. Justice Shiras sums up what has been determined:
"This court has declared, in several cases, that there is a
remedy in the courts for relief against legislation establishing
a tariff of rates which is so unreasonable as to practically destroy the value of property of companies engaged in the carrying business, and that especially may the courts of the United
States treat such a question as a judicial one, and hold such
acts of legislation to be in conflict with the Constitution of the
United States as depriving the companies of their property
without due process of law, and as depriving them of the
equal protection of the laws." We take it, then, that this is

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Mr. Bryan's Argument for Appellants.

as far as the courts have gone. Such legislation, then, must be
shown to be such as to deprive the companies of their property
without due process of law, or as to deprive them of the equal
protection of the laws. But it is said in this same case, at
page 663: "The opinion of this court on appeal was that,
while it was within the power of a court of equity in such
case to decree that the rates so established by the commission
were unreasonable and unjust, and to restrain their enforcement, it was not within its power to establish rates itself, or
to restrain the commission from again establishing rates." If
it is not, then, within the power of the court to establish rates
itself, it must exist within the legislative power, restricted only
so far as not to fix such rates so low as to deny the companies
the right of property or the equal protection of the law. It
must follow, then, that so long as the rate fixed by the law
will pay the operating expenses when economically administered, and something in addition thereto, the power of the
court ends, and the extent to which rates must produce profits
is one of political policy.
Mr. Webster closed by considering in detail the reports of
earnings and expenses, as tabulated in the evidence, and by
the counsel.
MAr. William . Bryan for appellants.
I. The several States have the right to fix, either directly
through an act of the legislature or indirectly through a commission, reasonable maximum freight and passenger rates
upon traffic wholly within their borders. Chicago, Burlingion & Quincy Railroad v. Iowa, 94: U. S. 155; Peik v.
Chicago & NortAhwestern Railway, 94 U. S. 164; Gkicago,
Milwaukee & St. Paul Railroad v. Ackley, 94: U. S. 179;
lFinona & St. PeterRailroad v. Blake, 94: U. S.180; Illinois
Central Railroad v. Illinois, 108 U. S. 541; Railway Commission cases, 116 U. S. 307; Wabash, St. Louis & Pacific
Raiway v. Illinois, 118 U. S. 557; Dow v. Beidelman, 125
U. S. 680 ; Covington &c. Turnpike Co. v. Sandford, 164: U. S.
578.

SMYTH v. AMES.
Mr. Bryan's Argument for Appellants.

II. As a general rule, the power of the couits to suspend I
the enforcement of a schedule of rates fixed by a State legislature or by a railway commission can only be invoked when
such rates yield an income so small as to leave absolutely
nothing above operating expenses. Chicago, M2iilwaukeee &c.
_Railway v. .Minnesota,134: U. S. 418 ; Chicago & GrandTrunk
Railway v. Wellman, 143 U. S. 339; Reagan v. Farmers'
Loam, & Trust Co., 154: U. S. 362; St. Louis & San Francisco
Railway v. Gill, 156 U. S. 649; Covington &c. Turnpike v.
Sandford, 164: U. S. 578.
In Chicago & lVorthwestern Railway v. .Dey, 35 Fed. Rep.
866, 878, Mr. Justice Brewer said: "Counsel for complainant
urge that the lowest rates the legislature may establish must
be such as will secure to the owners of the railroad property
a profit on their investment at least equal to the lowest current rate of interest, say 3 per cent. Decisions of the Supreme
Court seem to forbid such a limit to the power of the legislature in respect to that which they apparently recognize as a
right of the owners of the railroad property to some reward;
and the right of judicial interference exists only when the
schedule of rates established will fail to secure to the owners
of the property some compensation or income from their investment. As to the amount of such compensation, if some
compensation or reward is in fact secured, the legislature is
the sole judge."
Such was also the principle established in the Granger
cases in 94 U. S., where the court said: "Where property
has been clothed with a public interest, the legislature may
fix a limit to that which in law shall be reasonable for its
use. This limits the courts, as well as the people. If it has
been improperly fixed, the legislature, not the courts, must be
appealed to for the change." This doctrine was reaffirmed
in Dow v. Beidelman, 125 U. S. 680.
III. There may be special instances in which the courts
will refuse to interfere, even though the rates fixed do not
yield enough to pay operating expenses.
In Chicago &¢ Grand Tr'unk Railway v. Wellman, Mr.
Justice Brewer said: "It is agreed that the defendant's oper-

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Mr. Bryan's Argument for Appellants.

ating expenses for 1888 were $2,404,516.51. Of what do
these operating expenses consist? Are they made up partially
of extravagant salaries -fifty to one hundred thousand dollars to the president and in like proportion to subordinate
officers? Surely, before the courts are called upon to adjudge
an act of the legislature fixing the maximum passenger rates
for railroad companies to be unconstitutional, on the ground
that its enforcement would prevent the stockholders from
receiving any dividends on their investments, or the bondholders any interest on their loans, they should be fully advised as to what is done with the receipts and earnings of
the company, for if so advised it might clearly appear that a
prudent and honest management would, within the rates prescribed, secure to. the bondholders their interest and to the
stockholders reasonable dividends. While the protection of
vested rights of property is a supreme duty of the courts, it
has not come to this, that the legislative power rests subservient to the discretion of any railroad corporation which may,
by exorbitant and unreasonable salaries or in some other improper way, transfer its earnings into what it is pleased to
call operating expenses." The above language was quoted
with approval by Mr. Justice Shiras in delivering the opinion
of the court in St. Louis & San Francisco Railway v. Gill.
In Reagan v. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co., 154 U. S. 362, Mr.
Justice Brewer said:
"It is unnecessary to decide, and we do not wish to be
understood as laying down an absolute rule, that in every
case a failure to produce some profit to those who have invested their money in the building of a road is conclusive that
the tariff is unjust and unreasonable; and yet justice demands
that every one should receive some compensation for the use
of his money or property, if it be possible without prejudice
to the rights of others. There may be circumstances which
would justify such a tariff; there may have been extravagance
and a needless expenditure of money; there may be waste in
the management of the road; enormous salaries, unjust discrimination as between individual shippers, resulting in
general loss. The construction may have been at a time

SAIYTH v. AMES.
Mr. Bryan's Argument for AppeUants.

when material and labor were at the highest price, so that
the actual cost far exceeds the present value; the road may
have been unwisely built in localities where there is not sufficient business to sustain a road. Doubtless, too, there are
many other matters affecting the rights of the community in
which the road is built, as well as the rights of those who
have built the road."
IV. The evidence in the cases at bar shows that the rates
allowed by the Nebraska statute will yield to each and every
railroad in the State a profit upon its investment over and
above operating expenses.
V. Upon the foregoing propositions of law and fact the
judgment of the court below should be reversed and the
rates fixed by statute allowed to stand.
VI. But in case this court shall hold that it has the right
to pass upon the reasonableness of the profit allowed to the
railroads of Nebraska by the statute under consideration, then,
in such case, appellants contend (a) That the present value of the roads, as measured by the
cost of reproduction, is the basis upon which profit should be
computed.
In endeavoring to establish a reasonable rule we are bound
to consider the conditions which surround other occupations.
Railroads are built, owned and operated by corporations; corporations are fictitious persons created by law; laws are made
by the people through their representatives. It cannot be assumed that natural persons would intentionally create fictitious
persons and endow them with rights and privileges greater
than they themselves enjoy. Neither can it be assumed that
the natural persons who make the laws desire to exempt corporations, the creatures of law, from the vicissitudes which
surround themselves. The ordinary business man cannot
avail himself of watered stock or fictitious capitalization, nor
can he protect himself from falling prices. If his property
rises in value, he profits thereby; so do the owners of a railroad under similar conditions. If his property falls in value,
he loses thereby; so must the owners of a railroad under similar conditions, unless it can be shown that railroad property

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Air. Bryan's Argument for Appellants.

deserves more protection than other forms of property. Can
it be said that the railroad which carries the farmer's crop to
market merits greater consideration than the farmer who
raises the crop ? Can it be said that the railroad which carries
a manufactured product to market merits greater consideration
than the manufacturer? Can it be said that the common carrier is deserving of greater consideration than the ordinary
business man whose merchandise gives the railroad a reason
for existence? Is the man who carries property from producer
to consumer a more important factor in society than both
producer and consumer?
Such a rule does not do injustice to stockholders and those
who desire to purchase stock. If the owners of the road have
bonded th.e road for enough money to cover its present value,
their stock does not represent value. The owners of such a
road stand in the same position as the owner of a farm who
has incumbered it for all it is worth; his equity of redemption
is a legal title without a market value. They stand in the
same position as the owner of a business block or of a stock
of merchandise who has obtained the entire value of his property from a mortgagee.
Such a rule does not do injustice to the holders of railroad
bonds; if their bonds do not exceed the present value of the
property, they can expect an interest; if their bonds exceed
in amount the present value of the property, they stand in the
position of any other mortgagee who loans upon insufficient
security or whose security diminishes in value after the loan
is made. The only recourse the mortgagee usually has if his
security becomes insufficient is to take the title to the property. If the first mortgage bonds equal or exceed the value
of the property, then the holders of subsequent liens stand in
the same position as the man who invests in a second mortgage when the first mortgage covers the value of the
property.
There can be no distinction made between bondholders and
stockholders. If the States have a right to regulate rates,
stockholders cannot resist the demand for reasonable rates by
building the road with borrowed money. The stockholder

SMYTH v. AtES.
Mr. Bryan's Argument for Appellants.

invests in railroad stock, knowing that the road can only
charge a reasonable rate and earn a reasonable return. The
man who loans money to a railroad stands upon an equal
footing with the stockholder, and; as against the State or
the patrons, can assert no greater right than that possessed
by the stockholders. Bondholders may foreclose their lien
and become owners of the road. As against the State or
the patrons they can have no higher privileges as bondholders before becoming owners than they have later as
owners if it becomes necessary to take the road to satisfy
their lien.
In support of the proposition that railroads should be
placed upon the same footing as an ordinary business enterprise, it may be suggested that it is against public policy to
raise up in any community or country a few persons, natural
or corporate, and exempt them from the dangers and liabilities which must be encountered by the people in general.
Those who are in possession of a monopoly are apt to be
indifferent, if not actually hostile, to the interests of those
who are immediately affected by a change in the business
conditions of the country. If, for instance, railroad owners
can demand a return upon capital never actually invested in
the construction of the road or upon the original cost when
the property has decreased in value, they not only have an
unfair advantage over those who are subjected to competition,
but may actually profit by conditions which are disastrous to
others. An unrestrained monopoly preys upon all those who
are so situated that they cannot themselves enter into a
monopoly.
An additional reason why the court should not enforce
the demands of the railroads for returns upon inflated stocks
and bonds is to be found in the fact that such action on the
part of the courts would greatly embarrass, if not entirely defeat, the effort which is being made in various States to prevent the overcapitalization of railroads. The constitution of
Nebraska, article XI, section 5, contains the following provision:
"No railroad corporation shall issue any stock or bonds

OCTOBER TERMV, 1897.
Mr. Bryan's Argument for Appellants.

except for money, labor or property actually received and
applied to the purposes for which such corporation was
created, and all stock dividends and other fictitious increase
of the capital stock or infdebtedness of any such corporation
shall be void."
No one will question the wisdom of this constitutional restriction, and yet it will be impotent to protect the people
from watered stock if the 6ourts establish a rule which will
enable the railroad companies to collect an income upon overcapitalization.
In comparing the rights of the patrons of the road with
the rights of the holders of stocks and bonds, it must be remembered that the patrbn relies upon the law which compels common carriers to offer their services for reasonable
compensation, while the purchaser of railroad stocks or bonds
only suffers from his own negligence if he fails to learn
whether the money represented by those stocks and bonds
actually went into the road or found its way into the pockets
of railway promoters. If a person contemplates purchasing
railroad bonds, he can inquire whether the railroad's indebtedness exceeds the cost of reproducing it; if he fails to make
such inquiry he ought to have no standing in a court of
equity. He may be an innocent purchaser of bonds in the
sense that the railroads issuing the bonds- cannot make a
legal defence to his claim, but he is not an innocent purchaser
in the sense that the court must give actual value to his investment. In like manner the purchaser of stock can inquire
whether the stock represents actual value. If he fails to
inquire, or buys with knowledge that the debts exceed the
cost of reproducing the road, he has no equity which a court
can enforce.
The evidence shows that the railroads of Nebraska can be
reproduced complete for about twenty thousand dollars per
mile.
The following table, taken from the brief of associate counsel, shows the amount of stock and bonds issued by the various
railroads which are parties to this suit:

SMYTH v. AMES.
Mr. Bryan's Argument for Appellants.

Capital stock
per mile.

C., B. & Q...........
C., St. P., M. & 0 ...
......
F., E. & Al. V.
......
U. P. IRy .........
0. & R. V...
.......
St. J. & G. I .........
K. C. & 0 ..........
Mo. Pacific .......
Pacific R. R. in Neb. ......
K. & B. H .........
C., R. I. & P .........

.
.
.

.
.

$14,439
25,103
23,352
33,318
5,021
18,322
22,769
44,746
15,010
14,175
16,822

Funded debt
per mile.

$22,034
17,504
16,238
70,468
12,324
34,768
14,007
48,462
15,000
13,496
19,545

Total
per mile.

$36,473
42,608
39,590
103,786
17,345
53,060
36,007
93,208
30,010
27,625
36,368

This table shows upon how large an amount of fictitious
capital the roads will collect an income if allowed to collect
from patrons enough money to pay interest upon all bonds
and dividends upon all stock issued.
(b) The rates faxed in the statute under consideration allow
to the railroads of Nebraska a reasonable profit upon the
present value of the roads. The evidence in support of this
proposition has been discussed by associate counsel.
VII. Counsel for appellees insists that competition gives
to the patrons of a railroad full and complete protection
from extortionate rates. This argument is sufficiently answered by the decisions already rendered by this court,
wherein it has repeatedly affirmed the right of the State to
regulate railroad rates, but it may be added that a railroad
is to a certain extent a monopoly; it is only because it is a
monopoly that it can collect unreasonable rates. Competition
can only. act within certain limits. If a, railroad is built between two points, no other road can be built between those
points (unless it mortgages the future) until the first road is
realizing an income practically double a reasonable return
upon the value of the road, because a new road would require
an investment equal to the value of the first road, and until
transportation rates on business done would pay running expenses and a reasonable profit on both investments competition would be prohibited. 'When two roads are built they

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Mr. Woolworth's Argument for Appellees.

must necessarily collect more in tolls than one road would
be justified in collecting. The evidence in this case shows
that the Union Pacific Railroad is capitalized (including both
stock and bonds) at more than five times the cost of reproducing that portion of the road which lies within the State
of Nebraska. If it should attempt to realize upon all of this
capitalization it would probably encourage the building of a
parallel line, but it can charge rates grossly excessive without
fear of competition as to local traffic. The very existence of
the road prevents the building of a new road capitalized at
present cost, and, even if a new road should be built, commerce
would be compelled to bear a higher burden than it would if
this road were limited to a scale of charges which would produce a reasonable return upon its actual value. See opinion
of the court in C/icago, Rock Island & Paific Railway v.
Union,Paciic Railway, 47 Fed. Rep. 15.
VIII. Counsel for appellees insists that the rates fixed
by railroad companies may be unreasonable and yet not unreasonable enough to give state legislatures a right to lower
them; he divides rates into reasonable, not reasonable and
unreasonable. Under the head of reasonable rates he includes what they should charge; under the head of not
reasonable rates he includes those which the railroads may
charge, but should not; under the head of unreasonable rates
he includes those which the roads must not charge. This division is not supported by authority. The law which requires
carriers to transport goods at a reasonable compensation is an
absolute one and does not depend upon the motive of the carrier. There is no twilight period between reasonable rates
and unreasonable rates; rates which are reasonable may be
charged; rates which are not reasonable cannot be charged.
.Mr. J. M. Woolworth for appellees.
I. These decrees were right because the rates of charge
prescribed and limited in the act known as "1House Roll 33"
were insufficient to yield to the companies reasonable compensation for their services in transporting property from
one point to another within the State.

SMYTH v. AMES.
Mr. Woolworth's Argument for Appellees.

(a) The doctrine has been firmly established by a long
series of the judgments of this court, beginning with the
Grangercases decided in the year 1876, that the legislature
may prescribe and limit the charges which railroad companies
may make for their services in transporting persons and goods
for the public. But this doctrine has been qualified and restrained. It has been again and again declared by this court
that the power of the legislature in this matter is not unlimited; that it cannot be carried so far as to require them
to carry persons or property without reward, because the
imposition of such charges would operate the taking of private property for public use without just compensation and
without due process of law.
In the R~ailroad Commission cases, 116 U. S. 307, 331,
Mr. Chief Justice Waite, speaking for the court, while sustaining the legislative power to fix rates to be charged by
railroad companies, in order to guard against any unjust
application of the doctrine, took the precaution to say:
"From what has thus been said, it is not to be inferred that
this power of limitation or regulation is itself without limit.
This power to regulate is not a power to destroy, and limitation is not the equivalent of confiscation. Under pretence of
regulating fares and freights, the State cannot require a railroad corporation to carry persons or property without reward;
neither can it do that which in law amounts to a taking of
private property for public use without- just compensation
or without due process of laiv."
In Dow v. Beidelman, 125 U. S. 680, 689, Mr. Justice Gray,
speaking for the court, quoted this language with approval.
In GeorgiaRailroad& Banking Co. v. Smith, 128 U. S. 174,
179, Mr. Justice Field, delivering the opinion of the court, said
that the power of the legislature to prescribe the charges of a
railroad company for the carriage of persons and merchandise
is "subject to the limitation that the carriage is not required
without reward, or upon conditions amounting to the taking
of property for public use without just compensation."
In the Chicago & St. Paul Railway v. Minnesota, 134 U. S.
418, 458, Mr. Justice Blatchford, speaking for the court, said:

OCTOBER TERM, 189.
Mr. Woolworth's Argument for Appellees.

"If the company is deprived of the power of charging
reasonable rates for the use of its property, and such deprivation takes place in the absence of an investigation by judicial machinery, it is deprived of the lawful use of its property,
and thus, in substance and effect, of the property itself, without due process of law, and in violation of the Constitution of
the United States; and in so far as it is thus deprived, while
other persons are permitted to receive reasonable profits upon
their invested capital, the company is deprived of the equal
protection of the laws."
In the Chicago & Grand Trunk Railway v. Wellman, 143
U. S. 339, M r. Justice Brewer delivering the opinion of the
court, after-reiterating the principle that an act of the legislature was not necessarily unconstitutional which fixed rates, said:
"The legislature has power to fix rates, and the extent of
judicial interference is protection against unreasonable rates,
that is, against unreasonable rates prescribed aid limited by
an act of the legislature.
In Budd v. New York, 143 U. S. 517, Mr. Justice Blatchford said that the legislative "power of limitation or regulation is not without limit, and is not a power to destroy or a
power to compel the doing of the services without reward, or
to take private property for public use without just compensation or without due process of law."
In Reagan v. The Farmers' Loan c Trust Co., 154: U. S. 362,
399, Mr. Justice Brewer, again speaking for the court, said:
"In every constitution is the guarantee against the taking
of private property for public purposes without just compensation. The equal protection of the laws, which, by the Fourteenth Amendment, no State can deny to the individual, forbids legislation, in whatever form it may be enacted, by which
the property of one individual is, *without compensation,
wrested from him for the benefit of another, or of the public.
This, as has been often observed, is a government of law and
not a government of men; and it must never be forgotten
that under such a-government, with its constitutional limitations and guarantees, the forms of law and the machinery of
government with all their reach and power, must in their

SAIYTH v. AMES.
Mr. Woolworth's Argument for Appellees.

actual workings stop on the hither side of the unnecessary and
uncompensated taking or destruction of any private property,
legally acquired and legally held."
In St. Louis & San F'aneisco Railway v. Gill, 156 U. S.
64:9, 3Mr. Justice Shiras, delivering the opinion of the- court,
said in the course of it: "That there is a remedy in the courts
for relief against legislation establishing a tariff of rates which
is so unreasonable as to practically destroy the value of property of companies engaged in the carrying business, and that
especially may the courts of the United States treat such a
question as a judicial one, and hold such acts of legislation to
be in conflict with the Constitution of the United States, as
depriving the companies of their property without due process
of law, and as depriving them of the equal protection of the
laws."

And, in Covington & Lexington Turnpike Road Co. v. Sand,ford, 164 U. S. 578, 594, Mr. Justice Harlan, delivering the
opinion of the court, reviewed many of the cases above cited
and said:
"A statute which, by its necessary operation, compels a
turnpike company, when charging only such tolls as are just
to the public, to submit to such further reduction of rates as
will prevent it from keeping its road in proper repair, and
from earning any dividends whatever for stockholders, is as
obnoxious to the Constitution of the United States as would
be a similar statute relating to the business of a railroad corporation having authority, under its charter, to collect and
receive tolls for passengers and freight."
(b)The question of fact remains whether House Roll 33
limited the charges which railroad companies may make for
the carriage of goods so that their earnings would not cover
the cost of doing the business and some compensation therefor.
(1) One method of determining whether rates prescribed
by the legislature are reasonable is to put them in force for
one, two or three years, and at the end of a proper period
ascertain from the accounts o the business what the companies earned or lost. This method, however, is open to an
obvious objection: if after statutory rates have been in
VOL. cLx=-32

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Air. Woolworth's Argument for Appellees.

operation a certain period it appears that the companies have
not realized any compensation for their services, the loss sustained by them cannot in any way be made good.
(2) There is another method of testing the reasonableness
of statutory rates : it is to take the business for one, two, three
or more years immediately before the passage of the act and
by applying the rates to it, ascertain what they would have
yielded. For instance, suppose the case of a road with a paidup capital of four million dollars, earning in the year just
before the statutory rates were prescribed, one million dollars
per annum, of which sixty per cent or six hundred thousand
dollars went to cost of operation, and forty per cent or four
hundred thousand dollars to dividends. :Now suppose the
rates charged by the company were reduced by statute so
that had they been in force the year before, its earnings would
have been only five hundred thousand dollars, while its operating expenses continued to be six hundred thousand dollars, so
that not only would the stockholders receive no dividend, but
the company would sustain an actual loss of one hundred
thousand dollars. Let this process be applied not only to the
business of one year immediately preceding the passage of the
statute, -but to the second and the third years and as far back
as the inquiry could be carried, with the same result. This
method would amount almost to a demonstration that the
statutory rates will not in the future yield a reasonable return
for the services rendered by the company. This method is
just as legitimate as the other; in one, as well as the other, actual figures taken from the accounts of the company are dealt
with, and no guesses or estimates or calculation of contingencies are indulged, while the process of computation is exactly the same.
(c) I shall begin the inquiry whether House Roll 33, had
it been put in force during any one of three years immediately preceding its passage, would have yielded any compensation to the companies for their services; and I shall give
figures about which there is no room for disagreement and
which are least favorable to our contention. I propose to show
not that the statutory rates would not have yielded to the

SMYTH v. AMES.
Mr. Woolworth's Argument for Appellees.

companies reasonable compensation for their services, but
that they would not have yielded even cost of the business.
I shall not complicate the inquiry by showing that these
rates would have yielded nothing to apply on the interest of
the debts of the companies, or on the cost or value of the
road, or any returns, by way of dividends or otherwise, to the
stockholders.
I lay interest on bonds and mortgages -and
debts however evidenced and dividends to stockholders entirely out of view.
As the result of his examinations M r. Woolworth presented
two tables which he contended were established by the evidence.

Table 1, showing the percentage of expenses to earnings
for 1891, 1892, 1893.
NAME oF ROAD.

Reductions
by the bill.

Cost
of doing Extracostof
all business,
local business.

T otii.

1891B. & M ..........
.
C., St. P., M. & 0.. ......
F., E. & M. V ......
..
U. P. Ry ..........
...
0. & R. V ........
...
St. J. & G. L ......
.
K. C. & 0 .........
.

29.50
29.50
29.50
29.50
29.50
29.50
29.50

66.24
70.78
49.87
68.94
120.26
96.44
99.54

10
10
10
10
10
10
10

105.74
110.28
89.37
108.44
159.76
135.94
139.04

1892B. & . .........
C., St. P., M. & 0. .......
F., E. & 1l. V ......
...
U. P. Ry ..........
...
0. & R. V ...
........
St. J. & G. I .......
..
K. C. & 0 .........
.

29.50
29.50
29.50
29.50
29.50
29.50
29.50

64.23
65.96
70.71
56.44
93.12
74.23
75.19

10
10
10
10
10
10
10

103.73
105.46
110.21
95.94
132.62
113.73
114.69

1893B. & L
........
C., St. P., lvf. & 0 ......
F., E. & l. V......
U. P. Ry ..........
0. & R. V .......
St. J. & G. I........
K. C. & 0 .........

29.50
29.50
29.50
29.50
29.50
29.50
29.50

65.51
64.58
53.66
58.51
94.14
62.05
76.50

10
10
10
10
10
10
10

105.01
104.08
93.16
98.01
133.64
101.55
116.00

...
...
...
.
.

OCTOBER TERMVI, 189T.
Mr. Woolworth's Argument for Appellees.

I-IMc C,

.
en
0 L
c"c w
en
- -c
C

co4 In- m~ 0

co -4
I

I

0

cl

-

L-

cl

"1 C-1 -I

t-

em

'Ii

+ I I II

ci.

NO en I.- 0
L- T-4 40 -

0

140

co1

I I

0c cli

W en LeC,

co

en

0

di
1-4co

c

+I
+

II

-

llt- -4

C

co~C

t-L 00

-qm 10 mC)
Coa m cq -

++

I

c0

I

O

0

E-4

7;

oo

tC>-400--C
co
we
oc -11cq 'nw0t-

m

9. tr-

-

en-= 14 o

-w ot

-.

c m
(toc00C ca
G C ten-C4 C3
o

en
C t- o -14 co

o.I-.oi--

ci

oa "4 C I.- co 0D m

co

aD

r-4

.- I co

o

en -

-c4
5

to0

'-4

'-4

-

0-0t-4C-i
4co
-ic4e0n1
c

.d-~4c3 .dq Cq to -d4

Co cC'

C

,coG .D=o

eno-enenci
c r: c

~

0=

- '
z

.-4 0D
G
t--

.4,-

a4 tO- -14

n~

~

l

0 cO 4o
'-C.
11t"
,0
n'~oC'C~
c0-:.
vD

t-

-L-ci

o

,-4

ic

) 0 Q enct-ca

eoC

tnouz c cq 'to cm L,
coq . q
tl- c5 ow
L-:-L-:.
L-:.C
-d 9

m4co -4 -4n(D4-I
-I 1'4 t- ID00-11

-

0.1

-t-4

.0................

a

cl 40

'-'c
o

.

.....

.4

o ° ° ° °oq

4'

02,•i

M'

i

e''6
"

;q " 683Xdt;65,1

SMYTH v. ATMES.
Mr. Woolworth's Argument for Appellees.

These tables show that not one of these roads would have
realized the cost of its local business in the three years ending
June 30, 1891, 1892 and 1893, had their rates been those fixed
by the House Roll 33, except the Fremont, Elkhorn & Missouri Valley in 1891 and in 1893, and the Union Pacific in
1892 and 1893; the Fremont Company would have earned
10.63 per cent in 1891, and in 1893 6.84 per cent; and the
Union Pacific 4.06 in 1892, and 1.99 in 1893.
Mr. Woolworth also submitted the following as the result
of the evidence concerning the values of the properties.
TDe Burlington.
Mr. Taylor, the auditor of the company, who in one capacity
or another has been in the accounting department ever since
the construction of the road was begun, says that the same
cost $74,616,523.02, including original construction, betterments, etc. He also says that the mileage of the Burlington
is 2253.07, which would give about $33,000 per mile.
There is no suggestion in the record that the road was not
honestly and economically built.
There is no direct proof of present value, but Mr. Taylor
says that some of the properties are worth much more now
than they were when acquired.
Union Paciflo.
Mr. Morgan was an engineer, called to their assistance by
the Paterson Commission, which was charged by Congress
with the examination, among other things, of the condition
and value of the road. From his report several extracts are
made, and one is an estimate of the cost of reproducing the
road, which shows the cost per mile to be $26,814. This does
not include terminals.
Mr. House, who was one of the original corps of engineers,
affirms that estimate.
Mr. Calvert, who had been at first resident and afterwards
chief engineer of the Burlington, in Nebraska, and was superintendent of that road when he testified (1254), says that the
cost and value of a road which had become mature by time

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Mr. Woolworth's Argument for Appellees.

and expenditure was from 33-* to 50 per cent greater than one
just built, which would increase the estimate of Mr. House
and Mr. Morgan to from $35,752 to $40,221.
To this a large sum should be added for terminals, which
Mr. Morgan estimates at $10,000,000 (1150). Mr. House estimates them at $3,973,912 (1643). Either sum swells the cost
of reproduction very largely.
Th~e Elk Horn d- Omaha Roads.
The testimony is imperfect as to the present value and costs
of these roads, as will be found on examination. It is definite
enough for the Omaha terminals but can only be estimated
for the rest of the property.
II. The provisions of the constitution of the State of
Nebraska limit the competency of the legislature to fix railroad rates. Under those provisions, statutory rates must yield,
not only cost and compensation the least possible, but in all
contingencies cost and a fair profit.
III. House Roll 33 is unconstitutional because it attempts
to fix and limit the rate which the Union Pacific Railway Company may charge for transportation of freight on its lines
between points within the State. That company is within the
language of the act, and the Board of Transportation so construes it.
The Union Pacific Railroad Company was incorporated by
an act of Congress passed in 1862. An act amendatory of
the charter was passed in 1864. This act authorized any or
all of the companies mentioned therein to consolidate their
organizations. (See. 16.) Under this authority the Union
Pacific Railroad Company, the Kansas Pacific Railway Company, (at one time known as the Leavenworth, Pawnee &
Western, and afterwards as the Union Pacific Railroad Company Eastern Division,) and the Denver Pacific Railway and
Telegraph Company became consolidated under the name
and style of the Union Pacific Railway Company.
The object of the incorporation of the company is stated
in the original act to be "to secure the safe and speedy trans-

SMYTH v. AMIES.
Mr. Woolworth's Argument for Appellees.

portation of the mails, troops, munitions of war and public
stores" (Sec. 3), and "to promote the public interests and
welfare by' the construction of said railroad and telegraph
and keeping the same in working order; and to secure to
the Government at all times, but particularly in time of war,
the use and benefit of the same for postal, military and other
purposes." (Sec. 18.)
The service which the company was required to render to
the Government was to "at all times transmit dispatches over
said telegraph line, and transport mails, troops and munitions'
of war, supplies and public stores upon said railroad for the
Government whenever required to do so by any department
thereof, and that the Government shall at all times have the
preference in the use of the same for all purposes aforesaid."
It is too late in the day to take a moment's time to prove
that the States cannot interfere with any of the operations of
the General Government. And in administering its affairs
that 'Government may act directly by its own officers, or it
may make use of any appropriate agency. In proper cases
Congress may create a corporation to render certain services
to the Government. At one time it created a bank to be the
fiscal agent of the Government, and this court held that such
a corporation was a proper means to effect its legitimate objects. .7ioCullough v. .Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316; Osborn v.
United States Bank, 9 Wheat. 738.
And such an instrumentality, when once adopted by Congress for such purposes, is in its operations as far beyond any
interference by a State as the army or navy or the postoffice.
Attempts were made by two several States to tax the operations of the bank, but this court held such attempts futile.
In the Pacific Railroad acts of 1862 and 1864 Congress granted
to the Central Pacific Company some of the franchises which
we have seen it granted to the Union Pacific Company, and
the State of California attempted to tax them. This court
held that for the State to lay such a tax was "not onlyderogatory to the dignity of the Federal Government, but
was repugnant to its paramount sovereignty." California
v. Pacific Rail'oad Co., 127 U. S. 1.

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Mr. Carter's Argument for Appellees.

The provisions of House Roll 33 apply to all railroad corporations doing business within the State of Nebraska, and include the Union Pacific, the Chicago, Burlington & Quincy,
the Chicago & Northwestern, the Missouri Pacific and the
Elkhorn Companies. The Federal corporation not being subject to the jurisdiction of the State in this respect, the result
is that the act is unconstitutional and void, not only in respect of that company but in its whole scope and reach. It
was beyond the competency of the legislature to enact the
law in the words of it, and therefore it must fall.
IV. This case is within the jurisdiction of the court, whether
it be considered as a court of the United States or as a court
of equity.
.A&. James C. Carter for appellees.
Some of the claims asserted in defence of the Nebraska act
may be generally stated thus:
1. That railroads are allowed to be built for the public benefit, and must, therefore, be made to subserve the benefit of the
people; and that any private interest which may be involved
is of secondary importance.
2. That all people having occasion to need the services of a
railroad are entitled to them; and that the compensation required of them must be made to depend, not upon what the
railroad can afford to render the services for, but upon what
they can afford to pay.
3. That while it may be impossible to ascertain what the
cost is for any particular service, it is possible to ascertain the
average cost of the whole service rendered by a road, and fair
to treat this average as the cost of any particular service; and
consequently to assume that the cost of each particular service
is everywhere the same.
4. That all persons have an equal right to the services of a
railroad upon the same terms, notwithstanding that the actual
cost of the service demanded by one may be much greater
than that of the same service demanded by another.
5. That in fixing rates the value of the service to the one
who demands it is unimportant; but that the one who needs

SHYTH v. AMES.
Mr. Carter's Argument for Appellees.

it most, and who obtains the greatest benefit from it, should
pay no more for it than he who needs it least and obtains the
least benefit from it.
6. That the carriage of goods to and from large and compact communities which furnish large amounts of transportation and thus enable the service to be performed at much less
cost are not entitled to the benefit of this natural advantage, but that all parts of the State must be put upon an
equality.
There are many other claims upon which this legislation is
defended, but the above are sufficient for the only purpose for
which they are now stated, namely, to point out the first
necessity of this discussion; namely, a clear-understanding of
what railroad business really is, and had become, under and in
pursuance of the contracts between the public and the railroad
companies at the time when this legislation assumed to deal
with it.
The leading features of the railroad system of the United
States, as it has thus grown up and been established under
every sanction of law and public sentiment, are these :
(a) That the prices of carriage are everywhere fixed, not
by the railroads nor by shippers, but by the same imperious
power which fixes the price of all other articles or services,
namely, the pressure of competition. Against this determination it is irrelevant to argue justice or injustice; or, to speak
more correctly, the decision of this power is always just.
We do not complain of the decision in the case of food and
clothing. We have no more right to complain of it in the
case of the carriage of goods.
(b) Railroads charge the highest price they can profitably
get, as every one else does who has goods to sell; and in some
instances, where they have no competitors other than teams,
they may be under the temptation to charge an excessive
price. This they could not do permanently, but they might
do it temporarily, and before the forces of competition could
be brought into play. An excessive price is that indisputably
unusual charge for services rendered under similar conditions

OCTOBER TERIM, 1897.
Mr. Carter's Argument for Appellees.

which reasonable men would declare extortionate. Against
this danger there are two sufficient protections:
(1) A plain regard for self-interest will and does prevent it.
Moderate charges yield more profit by the greatly increased
business they draw. No railroad could make money by the
practice of extortion. A sound policy, perfectly well known
to railroad managers, advises them that it is best to tempt
and draw out a large traffic by low prices than to try to make
a large profit on a small business.
(2) No one need pay an excessive charge. The service can
be exacted at a reasonable price. It may indeed cost a lawsuit; but so do all other social and business wrongs. The
wrong cannot be-very great which does not provoke resistance. The extremely small number of actual contests on this
point are good evidence of the fact that this abuse is not frequent or extensive.
(o) Railroad rates exhibit great diversity, and the reason of
many of them is not apparent to the observer who does not
think of the conditions which free competition works out,
and of the way in which the railroad system has grown up.
The cost of the service in particular cases has little to do
with the making of the charge. What necessarily determines
the carrier's conclusion in any case, where he is called upon to
say whether he will take new traffic offered at a certain price,
is how much, if any, cost in addition to what he is then under
he will incur if he takes it.
His final aim is to get such an average rate for all his traffic
as will yield him a profit. The proportions in which all his
customers contribute to that average are settled by causes absolutely beyond either his or their will. A grocer's customer,
who uses much tea and little sugar, would not say to him that
he is doing a great injustice by exacting'from him a profit of
twenty-five per cent on the tea he buys, and at the same time
selling his neighbor sugar at a profit of only five per cent.
(d) There is a common phrase that railroad rates are
arranged so as to "get all the traffic will bear;" and this is
true, although not in the odious sense which imputes a design to take advantage of supposed necessities in order to

SMYTH v. AMES.
Mr. Carter's Argument for Appellees.

exact an excessive compensation. In its real meaning it
simply indicates to railroad managers the stern necessity
which limits them to low rates in order to gain or to save
traffic. When, in ways already indicated, they seek to gain
traffic by competition with water carriage, they ascertain the
rate which it is necessary for them to meet in order to secure
it. They must take this rate or give tip the struggle for the
business; for it is "all the traffic will bear." At points
where there is no competition except with other forms of
land carriage, and little traffic at that, they fix rates calculated to build up the country and increase business; for such
rates are "all the traffic will bear." If the great agricultural
products are so low that farmers can make nothing by raising
them and sending them to a market, the railroad man is obliged
to make his rates such that the farmer can make something,
or he will cease to-attempt to raise such products, and the railroad will lose its chief business. He may find it necessary for
his own interest to carry the traffic -at actual cost, and sometimes even for less, for this is "all the traffic will bear."
(e) In saying that railroad business is subject, like ordinary
industries, to the stress of competition, we do not express the
whole truth. They are peculiarly sensitive to it, and much
more than most other industries. Resorting to the just analogy heretofore suggested, that a railroad company may be
regarded as the manufacturer and seller of transportation,
some peculiarities which distinguish this from other manufactures should be noted.
In the first place the expense of manufacturing as compared
with the price of the product is much larger than in other
industries. In other industries this 'expense depends very
largely upon the amount of business done; but in this it goes
on and cannot be greatly reduced when little business is transacted. Again, the commodity produced by railroads, cannot,
for want of a sufficient demand, be stored away and kept for
a better market. If it is not sold to-day, because no fair price
can be obtained for it, it can never be sold, and yet a large
percentage of its cost which has already been incurred and
paid must be lost.

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Mr. Carter's Argument for Appellees.

These conditions put the managers of railroads under the
constant spur of a desire to sell what they have on hand so as
not to lose the expense it has already cost. Sellers of other
goods always have the alternative, when the price is thought
too low, of holding on to them with little additional expense
for a better market.
(f) The operation of the laws of free competition in railroad, as in other business, is not unattended with possible mischiefs, but they are infinitely less than would flow
from any attempt to dispense with such laws. These mischiefs, so far as prices are concerned, are really reducible to
two:
(1) There is a possibility that competing roads may combine in order to prevent or mitigate the effects of competition.
This in the case of railroads is an imaginary danger only.
The combination may, indeed, be made, and sometimes even
be absolutely necessary to prevent self-destruction. But the
combination must always find its real interest in an increase
of traffic by low rates rather than making a large profit by
high rates on a decreased traffic. And should an unwise
policy (never followed in present times) tempt the imposition
of high rates, it would speedily be baffled by the appearance
in the field of new roads and new competitors supplied with
capital attracted from other less profitable pursuits. That is
to say, competition cannot be really escaped by combination
in the large businesses which are open to all. Where nature
has limited the supply of a commodity, as in the case of mines
producing the necessaries of life, coal, etc., a combination
among all the proprietors may be made effective in raising
the price. This is the case of true monopolies, which railroads
are not. Perhaps a practical unification of ownership of all
great trunk lines of railway may be brought about and all
existing competitions be thus destroyed, and there might not
be boldness enough on the part of other capitalists to prompt
them to arrange a struggle with the new giant; as is supposed
to be true with the great unified interests of sugar and petroleum. But combination on such a scale is without mischief
so far as prices are concerned. Self-interest in such cases can

SMYTH v. AMES.
Mr. Carter's Argument for Appellees.

be promoted only by tempting an increase of consumption by
offering the lowest possible price.
(2) The other possible mischief is the conversion of open
into secret competition; that is by secretly obtaining traffic
by giving to some better terms than to others.' This is exhibited in the paying of rebates, or making special private
contracts, and thus giving to some advantages not shared by
all. Sometimes this practice is entirely proper and hurts no
one, indeed benefits all; as in the case where shippers of
bulky articles like lumber may be induced to withhold shipments until the winter season, when other traffic is slack, and
not send it when the roads are crowded. The case is different, however, when secret bargains are made merely to carry
traffic for one shipper at lower rates than for others. This is
an unqualified abuse and public and private outrage. It is
the last resort in a desperate and deadly competition. All
railroad managers abominate it; but there is no rectitude
which will not submit to it rather than die.
In respect to both these possible mischiefs the law provides
protection. Both practices are, when not justified by reasonable and fair purposes, crimes, and punishable as such. It may
be said that they are often not easy to be discovered, and
therefore, that the criminal law is not a sure safeguard; but
this is, to a greater or less degree, the case with all crimes.
The fear of punishment will be sufficient to restrain within
moderate limits the commission of the offence. It can never
become general; and so can never defeat the general beneficent operation of free competition.
The present general condition of the law on the questions
involved in the present controversy is believed to be as
follows:
1. That it is within the scope of the legislative power to
establish maximum rates for railroad charges.
2. That this power is not unlimited; and that the ascertainment and declaration of its limits are within the province of
the judicial power.
3. What these limits are is as yet an open question except

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Mr. Carter's Argument for Appellees.

in one particular; namely, the regulations must be reasonable.
4. That they transcend this limit and become unreasonable,
whenever they operate so as to take away the property of the
railroad conipanies.
5. What rules or principles must be observed in the framing
of maximum rates in order to make them reasonable, other
than the one above mentioned, that they must not take away
property, is as yet an open question.
6. In particular, the question whether they are not unreasonable, if they impair a contract between the railroad
companies and the State, and take away rights resting in
contract is an open question.
7. What rights, resting in contract, railroad companies
have, as against the State, is an open question.
8. Whether the State can determine by legislation the
reasonable value of railroad service as between railroad and
shipper, so as to oust, or to cripple, the jurisdiction of the
courts to determine, in some form, that reasonable value is an
open question. Reagan v. The Farmers' Loan & Trust Co.,
154: U. S. 362; St. Louis & Sanr f'ancisco Rai'way v. Gill,
156 U. S. 649.
It is believed that the present legislation is clearly shown
by the proofs in this case to be invalid within the principles
already established by this court. The rates are unreasonable
because they take away property without due process of law;
and, therefore, it is not necessary to determine either of the
points above mentioned as being still open. But, at the same
time, it is true that those points are directly raised and involved, and a discussion of them is relevant, and cannot with
propriety be passed.
I. The business of a common carrier of goods at all times
before the introduction of railroads, and ever since, has been
the carriage of goods for hire. The law attached to this
business the duty on the part of the carrier to carry all goods
which any one might require him to carry. ,It gave him a
corresponding right to charge for his services a reasonable
compensation. What was in fact a reasonable compensation

SMfYTH v. AMES.

511

Mr. Carter's Argument for Appellees.

is, from its very nature, a judicial question, and has always
been so treated.
The carrier had, in addition, the common right of all citizens, to agree with his customer concerning the amount of his
reward. In cases of such agreement, the question of reasonableness would necessarily disappear.
IL One can become a carrier by railroad only by the permission of the State. What the rights of such a carrier are,
as against the State, depend upon the terms of his contract
with the State by which he acquires the right. Under our
system, which allows all to construct and operate railroads
upon the same terms, the contract is made by a public offer,
and its acceptance, by performing the consideration.
III. The nature of the right gained by the acceptance of
such offers is ascertained by the simple inquiry what the offer
is. In the case of a railroad, where there are no special conditions or limitations modifying the substance of the offer,
(and in general, and in our particular cases, there are none,)
the offer is of the right to carry on (with the structure) the
business of a common carrier as it is ordinarily carried on.
And to whatever conditions, either by way of legislative
regulation, or otherwise, that business is ordinarily subject, it
becomes subject when acquired by a railroad carrier in the manner above pointed out; and it becomes subject, undoubtedly,
to such further governmental regulation as the new instrumentality employed may, in the public interest, reasonably
require.
IV. In the discussions, judicial as well as forensic, concerning the power of state legislatures to regulate railroad rates
and other similar charges, while the existence of the power
has been affirmed, the nature of the power, the place to which
it is assignable in the just sche me of government, and the conditions under which it may properly be exercised, have not
received the attention to which they are entitled. References
have been made to certain employments, such as those of millers, bakers, ferrymen, innkeepers, etc., the charges in which
have been made from time to time from an early period the
subjects of legislative regulation, and it has been impliedly

OCTOBER TERAI, 1897.
Mr. Carter's Argument for Appellees.

accepted as law, that these employments are, under all circumstances, subject to the interference of government, while other
employments and businesses are not; but the reasons why this
should be so have not been fully sifted. It is time that this
element, which has served as the foundation of the most
momentous conclusions, should be scrutinized and measured.
We affirm the moderate proposition that the ,governmental
power upon which alone this class of regulations can be defended is the police power. .iunn v. Illinois,941U. S. 113, 125.
V. This is not an exercise of the police power at all, and is
therefore a nullity.
VI. This legislation is unconstitutional. First, because it
takes away the contract rights granted to, and vested in, the
railroad companies by the public contracts under which they
expended their capital in the construction of their roads.
Second, because it immediately takes away the property of
those companies without compensation, and without due process of law. Third, because it denies to them the equal protection of the laws.
VII. This whole controversy may be made to turn upon
another single proposition, based substantially upon the same
grounds, but differing in form from those already asserted;
namely, the rates established by the act are not maximum
rates, such as the legislature had power to establish.
VIII. The Nebraska act is invalid and void within the
principles now fully recognized by this court for the reason
that while on its face it pretends to regulate rates on Nebraska
business alone it necessarily affects the business done in other
States, and the rates of that business. Rates so regulated are,
in very absolute sense, unreasonable.
IX. The business of transportation by rail in Nebraska consists in the performance of innumerable distinct items of
carriage service for an innumerable number of persons and
under every diversity of circumstance affecting the question
of reasonable price for the service. It is submitted that the
legislature of that State cannot, in any single instance, impose
a rate which would preclude the railroad from a recovery before a court and jury of what the court and jury might find

SMYTH v. AMES.
Mr. Carter's Argument for Appellees.

to be the reasonable value of that service. This act utterly
denies that right.
X. No one can deny, in view of the uniform decisions of
this court, and especially in view of the last one on this subject, that the power of a state legislature to establish rates is
not unlimited, but is subject to some sort of review in the
courts. Upon any view of the province of the courts this
act is invalid.
XL The present condition of the decisions of this court
upon the question of the authority of a legislature to establish
maximum rates, leaves open for discussion, to say the least,
every proposition advanced by me. No judgment of this court
is opposed to any of them; and the manifest tendency of the
later decisions is to support them all.
XII. When the above questions are properly settled, our
law in respect to maximum rates for railroad and other services will be brought into a more consistent form, which will
at once secure individual rights and not unduly limit legislative
powers; and then the propositions, which I have endeavored
to support, will be found to be just.
XIII. But without solving any of the questions above
asserted as open, and upon the law as now established, the
Nebraska act is unconstitutional and invalid for the reason
that the rates are so low as to leave no real compensation to
the railroads, and amount, therefore, to a taking of property
without due process of law, and to a denial to the railroads of
the equal protection of the laws.
In conclusion lr. Carter, after reviewing the cases, submitted the following as to the questions decided, and the
questions left open.
A. Points deter'mined by the Zines of decisions.
1. That in the absencp of provisions in the charters constituting contracts between the State and the company limiting
the legislative power in respect to rates, the legislature has the
power to fix maximum rates.
2. That this legislative power is not unlimited, and that it
does not extend so far as to permit rates to be established
VOL. CLxix-33

OCTOBER TERTIT, 1897.
Mr. Carter's Argument for Appellees.

which will yield no return upon the investment and thus
practically destroy the property.
3. That the question of what rates are reasonable, and
what are unreasonable, is a judicial and not a legislative
question.
B. Points left open
to discussion.
1. What is the nature of the legitimate power which the
legislature may exercise upon the subject of rates? It was in
substance declared, in the opinion in 3funn v. Illinois, that it
was the police power, but the real character of this power
and its limitations were not then, and have not since been,
much considered.
2. Where there are no express provisions in the charters
respecting the amount of rates or the power to fix them, is
there any implied grant of a right to charge reasonable rates?
Does not the right to take tolls necessarily imply a power to
take tolls to some certain amount or to some amount capable
of being made certain ? Can we help saying that it is a right
to take reasonable tolls ?
3. Can the court, when declaring that rates cannot be fixed
at so low a point as to yield no return, because that would be
a taking of property, stop at that point? If taking all profit
is a destruction of property, does that destruction begin there?
Does it not begin when the profit is reduced to a very small
amount? And, therefore, is it not necessary to fix a point at
which destruction begins, and can it be fixed anywhere except
at the point of reasonableness?
Tendency of this line of decision.
It is very plain that there has been a regular progress thus
far, entirely in harmony with -constitutional doctrine. It is
clearly developed by limiting the decisions to the actual circumstances of the cases decided, and treating the language of
opinions with the liberality which a true criticism enjoins.
The progress is as follows:
1. The question first presented was whether the legislature
had any power whatever to deal with rates. This was
decided in the affirmative.

SMYTH v. AMES.
Opinion of the Court.

2. When the question was made whether provisions in charters not granting the right to specific rates, but permitting
companies to fix reasonable rates, a decision was not compelled,
because the proofs did not show the statutory rates to be
unreasonable. Opinions differed.
3. When the suggestion was first pressed whether those
judges who sanctioned the fullest exercise of legislative power
would allow no limit to it, some of them, including Waite,
C. J., himself, answered that the power did have its limitations;
and when the question was first squarely made the majority
held that it was limited.
4. When cases have been presented in which it was claimed
that the rates were unreasonably low, but not clearly shown
to be so, the court has declined to interfere.
5. When cases have been presented where the rates did not
allow any substantial return on the capital, it has been unanimously held that the limit had been reached and passed, and
the laws were held invalid.
6. The case seems not yet to have arisen where the rates
were proved to reduce returns to a clearly unreasonable point,
although not taking away all profit.
'7. In recent cases the question has been mooted, and repeated in the very last decision, whether there is not an
implied right under all charters to reasonable rates. Whenever this question presents itself in a manner not to be avoided,
the affirmative will be found to be the only decision to which
the foregoing tendencies lead, or which constitutional law can
sanction.

MR. JuSTmcE HIARLAN, after stating the case as above reported, delivered the opinion of the court.
The first question to be considered is one common to all the
cases. While it was not objected at the argument that there
had been any departure from the 94th Equity Rule, it was
contended that the plaintiffs had an adequate remedy at law,
and that the Circuit Court of the United States, sitting in
equity, was therefore without jurisdiction. This objection is

OCTOBER TERMI, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

based upon the fifth section of the Nebraska statute authorizing any railroad company to show, in a proper action brought
in the Supreme Court of the State, that the rates therein prescribed are unreasonable and unjust and, if that court found
such to be the fact, to obtain an order upon the Board of
Transportation permitting the rates to be raised to any sum
in the discretion of that Board, provided that in no case
should they be fixed at a higher sum than was charged by the
company on the first day of January, 1893. This section, it
is contended, took from the Circuit Court of the United States
its equity jurisdiction in respect of the rates prescribed and
required the dismissal of the bills.
We cannot accept this view of the equity jurisdiction of
the Circuit Courts of the United States. The adequacy or
inadequacy of a remedy at law for the protection of the
rights of one entitled upon any ground to invoke the powers
of a Federal court, is not to be conclusively determined by
the statutes of the particular State in which suit may be
brought. One who is entitled to sue in the Federal Circuit
Court may invoke its jurisdiction in equity whenever the established principles and rules of equity permit such a suit iii
that court; and he cannot be deprived of that right by reason
of his-being allowed to sue at law in a state court on the
same cause of action. It is true that an enlargement of
equitable rights arising from the statutes of a State may be
administered by the Circuit Courts of the United States.
Case of Broderick's WilT, 21 Wall. 503, 520; Rlolland v.
C/allen, 110 U. S. 15, 24; Dick v. Foraker, 155 U. S. 404,
415 ; B ardon v. Land & River Imp. Co., 157 U. S. 327, 330 ;
Rich v. Braxton, 158 U. S. 375, 405. But if the case in its
essence be one cognizable in equity, the plaintiff-the required value being in dispute - may invoke the equity powers
of the proper Circuit Court of the United States whenever
jurisdiction attaches by reason of diverse citizenship or upon
any other ground of Federal jurisdiction. Payne v. Rook,
7 Wall. 425, 430; -fMconihay v. righ, 121 U. S. 201, 205.
A party by going into a national court does not, this court
has said, lose any right or appropriate remedy of which he

SIYTH v. ATMES.
Opinion of the Court.

might have availed himself in the state courts of the same
locality; that the wise policy of the Constitution gives him a
choice of tribunals. -Davis v. Gray, 16 Wall. 203, 221; Cowley v. Nforthern .Pacific Railroad, 159 U. S. 569, 583. So,
"whenever a citizen of a State can go into the courts of a
State to defend his property against the illegal acts of its
officers, a citizen of another State may invoke the jurisdiction
of the Federal courts to maintain a like defence. A State
cannot tie up a citizen of another State, having property rights
within its territory invaded by unauthorized acts of its own
officers, to suits for redress in its own courts." Reagan v.
FTarmers' Loan & Trust Co., 154 U. S. 362, 391; .Mississippi
XAills v. Ookn, 150 U. S. 202, 204; Cowles v. .Mercer Co., 7 Wall.
118; -Lincoln County v. Luning, 133 U. S. 529 ; Scott v. .eely,
140 U. S. 106; Chicot County v. Sherwood, 148 U. S. 529;
Cates v. Allen, 149 U. S. 451.
In these cases the plaintiffs, stockholders in the corporations
named, ask a decree enjoining the enforcement of certain
rates for transportation upon the ground that the statute prescribing them is repugnant to the Constitution of the United
States. Under the principles which in the Federal system
distinguish cases in law from those in equity, the Circuit
Court of the United States, sitting in equity, can make a comprehensive decree covering the whole ground of controversy
and thus avoid the multiplicity of suits that would inevitably
arise under the statute. The carrier is made liable not only
to individual persons for every act, matter or thing prohibited
by the statute, and for every omission to do any act, matter
or thing required to be done, but to a fine of from one thousand to five thousand dollars for the first offence, from five
thousand to ten thousand dollars for the second offence, from
ten thousand to twenty thousand dollars for the third offence,
and twenty-five thousand dollars for every subsequent offence.
The transactions along the line of any one of these railroads,
out of which causes of action might arise under the statute,
are so numerous and varied that the interference of equity
could well be justified upon the ground that a general decree,
according to the prayer of the bills, would avoid a multiplicity

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

of suits, and give a remedy more certain and efficacious than
could be given in any proceeding instituted against the company in a court of law; for a court of law could only deal
with each separate transaction involving the rates to be
charged for transportation. The transactions of a single week
would expose any company questioning the validity of the
statute to a vast number of suits by shippers, to say nothing
of the heavy penalties named in the statute. Only a court of
equity is competent to meet such an emergency and determine,
once for all and without a multiplicity of suits, matters that
affect not simply individuals, but the interests of the entire
community as involved in the use of a public highway and in
the administration of the affairs of the quasi-public corporation by which such highway is maintained.
Another question of a preliminary character must be here
noticed. The answer of the officers of the State in each case insists that the real party in interest is the State, and that these
suits are, in effect, suits against the State, of which the Circuit
Court of the United States cannot take jurisdiction consistently with the Eleventh Amendment of the Constitution of
the United States. This point is, perhaps, covered by the
general assignments of error, but it was not discussed at the
bar by the representatives of the State Board. It would
therefore be sufficient to say that these are cases of which, so
far as the plaintiffs are concerned, the Circuit Court has jurisdiction not only upon the ground of the diverse citizenship
or alienage of the parties, but upon the further ground that,
as the statute of Nebraska under which the State Board of
Transportation proceeds is assailed as being repugnant to
rights secured to the plaintiffs by the Constitution of the
United States, the cases may be regarded as arising under
that instrument. But to prevent misapprehension, we add
that, within the meaning of the Eleventh Amendment of the
Constitution, the suits are not against the State but against
certain individuals charged with the administration of a state
enactment, which, it is alleged, cannot be enforced without
violating the constitutional rights of the plaintiffs. It is the
settled doctrine of this court that a suit against individuals for

SM[YTH v. AMES.
Opinion of the Court.

the purpose of preventing them as officers of a State from
enforcing an unconstitutional enactment to the injury of the
rights of the plaintiff, is not a suit against the State within the
meaning of that Amendment. Pennoyer v..McConnaughy, 140
tT. S.1, 10; In re Tyler, 149 U. S. 164, 190; Scott v. Donald,
165 U. S. 58, 68; Tindal v. Tesley, 167 U. S. 204, 220.
An important question is presented that relates only to the
Union Pacific Company. That company is a corporation
formed by the consolidation of several companies under the
authority of acts of Congress, one of the constituent companies being the Union Pacific Railroad Company incorporated by the act of July 1, 1862, c. 120, 12 Stat. 489. United
States v. Union Pacific Railway, 160 U. S. 1, 6. Neither
that company nor the Union Pacific Railroad Company is
named in the Nebraska statute, but the statute is interpreted
by the State Board of Transportation as embracing the
present defendant corporation. It is contended that the State
is without power to fix or limit the rates that the Union
Pacific Company may charge for the transportation of freight
on its lines between points within Nebraska. This contention
rests: 1. Upon the provisions of the acts of Congress showing
that the Union Pacific Railroad Company *was created for the
accomplishment of national objects, namely, to secure the safe
and speedy transportation of the mails, troops, munitions of
war and public stores of the United States; 2. Upon the
eighteenth section of the above act of July 1, 1862, 12 Stat.
489, 497, c. 120, providing that "whenever it appears that the
net earnings of the entire road and telegraph, including the
amount allowed for services rendered for the United States,
after deducting all expenditures, including repairs and the
furnishing, running and managing of said road, shall exceed
ten per centum upon its cost, exclusive of the five per centum
to be paid to the United States, Congress may reduce the
rates of fare thereon, if unreasonable in amount, and may fix
and establish the same by law." The argument is that Congress by this enactment has reserved to itself exclusive control
of rates, interstate and local, to be charged on the Union
Pacific Railroad. As this view, if maintained, would require

OCTOBER TER2f, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

an affirmance of the decree so far as the Union Pacific Company is concerned, whether the Nebraska statute of 1893 be
constitutional or not as to the other railroad corporations, it
cannot properly be passed without examination.
In .Reagan v. lfercantile Trust Co., 154 U. S. 4.13, 416, the
question arose whether the Texas and Pacific Railway Company, a corporation organized under the laws of the United
States, was subject to the laws of Texas with respect to rates
for transportation wholly within that State. The ground
upon which exemption from state control was there asserted
by the company was that it received all its franchises from
Congress, including the franchise to charge and collect tolls.
This court, conceding, for the purposes of that case, that Congress had power to remove the corporation in all its operations
from state control, held that the act creating it did not show
an intention upon the part of Congress to exempt it from the
duty to conform to such reasonable rates for local transportation as the State might prescribe, and that the enforcement
by the State of reasonable rates for such transportation would
not disable the corporation from performing the duties and
exercising the powers imposed upon it by Congress. The
court said: "By the act of incorporation Congress authorized
the company to build its road through the State of Texas. It
knew that, when constructed, a part of its business would be
the carrying of persons and property from points within the
State to other points also within the State, and that in so
doing it would be enogaoed in a business, control of which is
nowhere by the Federal Constitution given to Congress. It
must have been known that, in the nature of things, the control of that business would be exercised by the State, and if it
deemed that the interests of the nation and the discharge of
the duties required on behalf of the nation from this corporation demanded exemption in all things from state control, it
would unquestionably have expressed such intention in language whose meaning would be clear. Its silence in this
respect is satisfactory'assurance that, in so far as this corporation should engage in business wholly within the State,
it intended that it should be subjected to the ordinary control

SMYTH v. AMIES.
Opinion of the Court.

exercised by the State over such business. Without, therefore,
relying at all upon any acceptance by the railroad corporation
of the act of the legislature of the State, passed in 1873 in
respect to it, we are of opinion that the Texas and Pacific
Railway Company is, as to business done wholly within the
State, subject to the control of the State in all matters of
taxation, rates and other police regulations."
This conclusion, as may be observed from the opinion, was
based in part upon the reasoning in Tlomson v. Pacific Raili'oad, 9 Wall. 579, and in Railroad Company v. Peniston, 18
Wall. 5, in which cases it was held that the property of certain railroad companies was not exempt from state taxation
by reason alone of the fact that they were organized under
acts of Congress for the accomplishment of national objects,
and that the imposition of such taxes was not, ina constitutional sense, an obstruction to the exercise of the powers of
the General Government, nor an interference with the discharge of the duties required of the companies by their
charters.
In the present case the question is more difficult of solution
by reason of the declaration in the above act of July 1, 1862
(no similar declaration being made in the act incorporating the
Texas and Pacific Railway Company), that Congress may reduce
the rates of fare on the Union Pacific Railroad if unreasonable
in amount, and may fix and establish the same by law whenever the net earnings of the entire road and telegraph, ascertained upon a named basis, should exceed ten per centum upon
its cost, exclusive of the five per centum to be paid to the
United States.
Undoubtedly Congress intended by that act to reserve such
power as was necessary to prevent the corporation from exacting rates that were unreasonable. But this is not equivalent to a declaration that the States through which the
railroad might be constructed should not regulate rates for
transportation begun and completed within their respective
limits.
It cannot be doubted that the making of rates for transportation by railroad corporations along public highways,

OCTOBER TERMT,

1897.

Opinion of the Court.

between points wholly within the limits of a State, is a
subject primarily within the control of that State.

And it

ought not to be supposed that Congress intended that, so long
as it forbore to establish rates on the Union Pacific Railroad,
the corporation itself could fix such rates for transportation as
it saw proper independently of the right of the States through
which the road was constructed to prescribe regulations for
transportation beginning and ending within their respective
limits. On the contrary, the better interpretation of the act
of July 1, 1862, is that the question of rates for wholly local
business was left under the control of the respective States
through which the Union Pacific Railroad might pass, with
power reserved to Congress to intervene under certain circumstances and fix the rates that the corporation could reasonably
charge and collect. Congress not having exerted this power,
we do not think that the national character of the corporation
constructing the Union Pacific Railroad stands in the way of
a State prescribing rates for transporting property on that
road wholly between points within its territory. Until Congress, in the exercise either of the power specifically reserved
by the eighteenth section of the act of 1862 or its power
under' the general reservation made of authority to add to,
alter, amend or repeal that act, prescribes rates to be charged
by the railroad company, it remains with the States through
which the road passes to fix rates for transportation beginning
and ending within their respective limits.
We are now to inquire whether the Nebraska statute is
repugnant to the Constitution of the United States.
By the Fourteenth Amendment it is provided that no State
shall deprive any person of property without due process
of law, nor deny to any person within its jurisdiction the
equal protection of the laws. That corporations are persons
within the meaning of this Amendment is now settled. Santa
Clara County v. Southern Paiic Railroad, 118 U. S. 394,
396; Charlotte, Columbia & Augusta Railroadv. Gibbes, 142
U. S. 386, 391; GuVf, Colorado & Santa Fj Railway v. This,
165 U. S. 150, 154. What amounts to deprivation of property
without due process of law or what is a denial of the equal

SMYTH v. AMES.
Opinion of the Court.

protection of the laws is often difficult to determine, especially
where the question relates to the property of a quasi public
corporation and the extent to which it may be subjected to
public control. But this court, speaking by Chief Tustice
Waite, has said that, while a State has power to fix the
charges by railroad companies for the transportation of persons and property within its own jurisdiction, unless restrained
by valid contract, or unless what is done amounts to a regulation of foreign or interstate commerce, such power is not
without limit; and that, "under pretence of regulating fares
and freights, the State cannot require a railroad corporation
to carry persons or property without reward, neither can it
do that which in law amounts to the taking of private prop,
erty for public use without just compensation, or without due
process of law." Railroad Commission Cases, 116 U. S. 307,
325, 331. This principle was recognized in Dow v. Beidelman, 125 U. S. 680, 689, and has been reaffirmed in other
cases. In Georgia Railroad & Banking Co. v. Smith, 128
U. S. 174, 179, it was said that the power of the State to prescribe the charges of a railroad company for the carriage of
persons and merchandise within its limits -in the absence of
any provision in the charter of the company constituting a
contract vesting it with authority over those matters -was
"subject to the limitation that the carriage is not required
without reward, or upon conditions amounting to the taking
of property for public use without just compensation; and
that what is done does not amount to a regulation of foreign
or interstate commerce." In Chicago, lAlilwaukee & St. Paul
was said: "If
Railway v. Minnesota, 134: U. S. 418, 458, it,
the company is deprived of the power of charging reasonable
rates for the use of its property, and such deprivation takes
place in the absence of an investigation by judicial machinery,
it is deprived of the lawful use of its property, and thus, in
substance and effect, of the property itself, without due process of law and in violation of the Constitution of the United
States; and in so far as it is thus deprived, while other persons are permitted to receive reasonable profits upon their
invested capital, the company is deprived of the equal protec-

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

tion of the laws."

In Chicago & Grand Trunk Railway v.

lFellinan, 143 U. S. 339, 344, the court, in answer to the suggestion that the legislature had no authority to prescribe
maximum rates for railroad transportation, said that "the
legislature has power to fix rates, and the extent of judicial
interference is protection against unreasonable rates." In
Budd v. New York, 143 U. S. 517, 547, the court, while sustaining the power of New York by statute to regulate charges
to be exacted at grain elevators and warehouses in that State,
took care to state, as a result of former decisions, that such
power was not one "to destroy or a power to compel the
doing of the services without reward, or to take private prop.erty for public use without just compensation or without due
process of law."
In Reagan v. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co., 154 U. S. 362,
399, which involved the validity of certain rates for freights
and passengers prescribed by a railroad commission established
by an act of the legislature of Texas, this court, after referring
to the above cases, said: "These cases all support the proposition that while it is not the province of the courts to enter
upon the merely administrative duty of framing a .tariff of
rates for carriage, it is within the scope of judicial power and
a part of judicial duty to restrain anything which, in the form
of a regulation of rates, operates to deny to the owners of
property invested in the business of transportation that equal
protection which is the constitutional right of all owners of
other property. There is nothing new or strange in this. It
has always been a phrt of the judicial function to determine
whether the act of one party (whether that party be a single
individual, an organized body or the public as a whole)
operates to divest the other party of any rights of person or
property. In every constitution is the guarantee against the
taking of private property for public purposes without just
compensation. The equal protection of the laws which, by
the Fourteenth Amendment, no State can deny to the individual, forbids legislation, in whatever form it may be enacted,
by which the property of one individual is, without compensation, wrested from him for the benefit of another, or of the

SAYTH v. AMES.
Opinion of the Court.

public. This, as has been often observed, is a government of
law, and not a government of men, and it must never be
forgotten that under such a government, with its constitutional
limitations and guarantees, the forms of law and the machinery
of government, with all their reach and power, must in their
actual workings stop on the hither side of the unnecessary and
uncompensated taking or destruction of any private property,
legally acquired and legally held. It was, therefore, within
the competency of the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Western District of Texas, at the instance of the plintiff,
a citizen of another State, to enter upon an inquiry as to
the reasonableness and justice of the rates prescribed by the
railroad commission. Indeed, it was in so doing only exercising a power expressly named in the act creating the commission."
So, in St. Louis & San FranciscoRailway v. Gill, 156 U. S.
649, 657, it was said that "there is a remedy in the courts for
relief against legislation establishing a tariff of rates which
is so unreasonable as to practically destroy the value of property of companies engaged in the carrying business, and that
especially may the courts of the United States treat such a
,question as a judicial one, and hold such acts of legislation to
be in conflict with the Constitution of the United States, as
depriving the companies of their property without due process
of law, and as depriving them of the equal protection of the
laws." In Covington & Lexington Turnpike Road 0o. v.
Sandford, 1641 U. S. 578, 584, 594-5, 597, which involved the
validity of a state enactment prescribing rates of toll on a
turnpike road, the court said: "A statute which, by its necessary operation, compels a turnpike company, when charging
only such tolls as are just to the public, to submit to such further reduction of rates as will prevent it from keeping its
road in proper repair, and from earning any dividends whatever for stockholders, is as obnoxious to the Constitution of
the United States as would be a similar statute relating to the
business of a railroad corporation having authority, under its
charter, to collect and receive tolls for passengers and freight."
And in Chicago, Burlington & Quincy Railroad v. Ghicago,

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

166 U. S. 226, 241, it was held that "a judgment of a state
court, even if it be authorized by statute, whereby private
property is taken for the State or under its direction for
public use, without compensation made or secured to the
owner, is, upon principle and authority wanting in the due
process of law required by the Fourteenth Amendment of the
Constitution of the United States, and the affirmance of such
judgment by the highest court of the State is a denial by that
State of a right secured to the owner by that instrument."
In view of the adjudications these principles must be
regarded as settled:
1. A railroad corporation is a person within the meaning of
the Fourteenth Amendment declaring that no State shall
deprive any person of property without due process of law,
nor deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws.
2. A state enactment, or regulations made under the authority of a state enactment, establishing rates for the transportation of pergons or property by railroad that will not
admit of the carrier earning such compensation as under all
the circumstances is just to it and to the public, would deprive
such carrier of its property without due process of law and
deny to it the equal protection of the laws, and would therefore be repugnant to the Fourteenth Amendment of the
Constitution of the United States.
3. While rates for the transportation of persons and property within the limits of a State are primarily for its determination, the question whether they are so unreasonably low as
to deprive the carrier of its property without such compensation as the Constitution secures, and therefore -without due
process of law, cannot be so conclusively determined by the
legislature of the State or by regulations adopted under its
authority, that the matter may not become the subject of
judicial inquiry.
The cases before us directly present the important question
last stated.
Before entering upon its examination, it may be observed
that the grant to the legislature in the constitution of Ne-

SMYTH v. AMES.
Opinion of the Court.

braska of the power to establish maximum rates for the transportation of passengers and freight on railroads in that State
has reference to "reasonable" maximum rates. These words
strongly imply that it was not intended to give a' power to fix
maximum rates without regard to their reasonableness. Be
this as it may, it cannot be admitted that the power granted
may be exerted in derogation of rights secured by the Constitution of the United States, or that the judiciary may not,
when its jurisdiction is properly invoked, protect those rights.
What are the considerations to which weight must be given
when we seek to ascertain the compensation that a railroad
company is entitled to receive, and a prohibition upon the
receiving of which may be fairly deemed a deprivation by
legislative decree of property without due process of law?
Undoubtedly that question could be more easily determined
by a commission composed of persons whose special skill,
observation and experience qualifies them to so handle great
problems of transportation as to do justice both to the public
and to those whose money has been used to construct and
maintain* highways for the convenience and benefit of the
people. But despite the difficulties that confessedly attend
the proper solution of such questions, the court cannot shrink
from the duty to determine whether it be true, as alleged,
that the Nebraska statute invades or destroys rights secured
by the supreme law of the land. No one, we take it, will
contend that a state enactment is in harmony with that law
simply because the legislature of the State has declared such
to be the case; for that would make the state legislature the
final judge of the validity of its enactment, although the Constitution of the United States and the laws made in pursuance
thereof are the supreme law of the land, anything in the
constitution or laws of any State to the contrary notwithstanding. Art. VI. The idea that any legislature, state or
Federal, can conclusively determine for the people and for the
courts that what it enacts in the form of law, or what it
authorizes its agents to do, is consistent with the fundamental
law, is in opposition to the theory of our institutions. The
duty rests upon all courts, Federal and state, when their

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

jurisdiction is properly invoked, to see to it that no right secured by the supreme law of the land is impaired or destroyed
by legislation. This function and duty of the judiciary distinguishes the American system from all other systems of government. The perpetuity of our institutions and the liberty which
is enjoyed under them depend, in no small degree, upon the
power given the judiciary to declare null and void all legislation that is clearly repugnant to the supreme law of the land.
We turn now to the evidence in the voluminous record before
us for the purpose of ascertaining whether -looking at the
cases in the light of the facts as they existed when the decrees
were rendered -the Nebraska statute, if enforced, would, by
its necessary operation, have deprived the companies, whose
stockholders and bondholders here complain, of the right to
obtain just compensation for the services rendered by them.
The first and most important contention of the plaintiffs is
that, if the statute had been in force during any one of the
three years preceding its passage, the defendant companies
would have been compelled to use their property for the
public substantially without reward or without the just compensation to which it was entitled. We think this mode of
calculation for ascertaining the probable effect of the Nebraska
statute upon the railroad companies in question is one that may
be properly used.
The conclusion reached by the Circuit Court was that the
reduction made by the Nebraska statute in the rates for local
freight was so unjust and unreasonable as to require a decree
staying the enforcement of such rates against the companies
named in the bill. Ames v. Union Pacific Railway, 64: Fed.
Rep. 165, 189. That conclusion was based largely upon the
figures presented by Mr. Dilworth, while he was a secretary
of the State Board of Transportation, as well as a defendant
and one of the solicitors of the defendants in these causes.
He was a principal witness for that Board. His general fairness and his competency to speak of the facts upon which the
question before us depends are apparent on the record. Hie
stated that the average reduction made by the statute on all
the "commodities of local rates" was 29.50 per cent; and this

SMYTH v. AMES.
Opinion of the Court.

estimate seems to have been accepted by the parties as correct.
lHe estimated that the percentage of operating expenses on
local business would exceed the percentage of operating expenses on all business by at least ten per cent, and that it
might go as high as twenty per cent or higher. And this
view is more than sustained by the evidence of witnesses
possessing special knowledge of railroad transportation and
of the cost of doing local business as compared with what is
called through business. Indeed, one of those witnesses states
that the cost of carrying local freight is four times as much as
the cost of through freight per ton per mile; another that the
cost of the short haul is "reasonably double the long haul."
If due regard be had to the testimony -and we have no other
basis for our judgment -we are not permitted to place the
extra cost of local business at less than ten per cent greater
than the percentage of the cost of all business.
In answer to questions propounded to him by the defendants constituting the State Board of Transportation, -Mr.
Dilworth stated that he bad prepared himself with an estimate showing the number of tons of freight, commonly
spoken of as local freight, hauled on the respective railways
in Nebraska, and the amount received by the railway companies by way of tariff on tons of freight hauled, including
through as well as local freight, and was qualified to speak
as to the amount received by the companies for both passengers and freight within the State, and the reduction that
would take place in rates under the statute in question. Ile
presented various tables showing the results of his investigations. One is known as Exhibit 4, and is an "Estimate of
local business, and the effect of House Roll 33" on the
Burlington, St. Paul, Fremont, Union Pacific, Omaha, St.
Joseph and Kansas City Companies for the year 1892. Another is called Exhibit 19, and is a like estimate in respect of
the same companies for the years 1891 and 1893. Another is
known as Exhibit 20, and shows "Tons carried, tonnage per
mile and percentage of expenses for the years ending June 30,
1891, 1892 and 1893 (Nebraska)." These exhibits are as follows:
VOL.

LXIX-31

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

o ro
,ooo

r~4t- t4 -m
C) C) C)

.)

rN;

11 C>

3g

01
01

01
0
.)

U3

w

C0 CoD -4
C) C)

~1coL

co
co

CD

I00

CD
CD

00

C4

tD)- oC
C
C4
X )
C
C)

C)Z
Co

C4

c)

oOz

V) cq

00

l

x0

co

co

00

CO C3

C)

i.

cl4 OD c C
1Z-

C)t-',

to

m

C)

l4 CO ,1' Co
0)0
. C6
z) -:
o toTC
c01
C
1cq
oC

A)

z2

"

co
C>

5-1

Co
OD Co
L-C I'D

-14

N1 C)*m1
In CoD C) Co
C

I_,- 00

~Co

0I 1l

Co0 C

Co

CD

0c

0)

r -. 0 1 C) co
cC r-4 .cq)cq* 1-

O

-4

o )-1

CCo

0

Co1

4.0

'0

co

5k

O0
Co
coLZd

c

Co

-c

Cm m Co
1
D-

SAIYTH v. AMES.
Opinion of the Court.
°0

o

.90

090oC

0a

0'

c

0

-14
"i000000

-

tD

OLIZ

-.di CO0
0 LIZ
0,
C
01 (D4

CD
0
C4

,-4C
ci

C01

xl

co 000
0
o00
COCO
at l
ce. 0- '04 0
0
t-fNr- -COCO

0

-40
rOC
±

q co LC
qC

c04±4
c

-

m UD

COCOC- oI
-c '04 0i '04 'I
0CoOCY-CO

0oc
mCC
c- cc
.

co C> L-

Cl.CD04c0,450mCL-

-0
cq

00
4
-4

w
0

0
LZco0
X0 ,-40C00

4 C m CD CD
00 0~o0 c

CD I-'0
-4L-O

co

CO'40 00
'-4 '4 *0C

-

2

0

0

C0

2C-

to to CODC-. C4 00 1-

X-'0 MC- oO
00
-tl C> -4l m - 0O'

ka O
=3 -di OD

.- 4D

~0
qO

90004C00

?

00cCOLtX:0

04

0

CO 04

COH,

c

o 0 0 L-

00

- 04

°

.p- E
-4

glm

ca
.

toC58g

~

6
0

cd
0h

0

-- 4

1

C 00

CO

,-( 0

0

• 8• • 0
m0

cco0

1~- -4
CO
03~4CD00
CO-40
C -43Cq

,-4 14

Q

mO'N
0z

004 c

D

COC-

4C o 0

0

O

coCeD k- -

0k-O4Cq

0O0

'04CDO0-

I-

I
o-~-) >0 0
to' 4I03q 40000c I

0
4

,z

0

0

oto.
0 c0

4

C)

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

CID0-4

CO

C L- - 4 C0' -d ,Jl
ai L-: COOc Q
CIll IR
000
CO 0100m
or': 0CO0

Cl

L- 0)CO t- I- wO 0

=O

-ji

00

co

00.-

cq COO

xa0
0o = -

CO
10Itl0
001m - L-

t-

v

CO C t-

0 CO0C,-0m

wC>
0

IN -

t

t ol

CD 4

co~'

-

r-

4mcCO.

cO,"-

0

~,sco

!Vo
0C
O~r
000 VD 00

040 'C, l 00
4 O00 ( 0%0

o

LIDL- -

OO0c -c O

0CO
-4cl -,

L-

m ,- (:>
0Z t-C

co 00

IZ(
00
n1.0

COcqt CO

rV

I-

-44Ot

CC 1CCOO

0

0
w

t-co

001m m

4

xQ LICO 1.

L

=0

a) v

0

1

=O COO -

COmclcoOC-00

C w--0

COD
t-C

co

o- Lr- CD
0
CMC>O0

cotOOrC04CO~0cot

CO
0
0A

0-4

10.00

-

I

0

CD

*,i CO>,3Cr-

00 00
CO L0

'N

0q
ocq
0C o
VD

LZC)

- C

00-

00m00

LID 00

v40CC)
DcO

-O04 t 00

0

-14o v
10 to 00
r00

1

-

C.

00

-cO
to
10 "4
-rC> 00
1C0 t
0100
00
OOO-% C

X0 tOC C 4 0 CID
0O-CD
0c)G
4
r

CO -4 4 DOr.0
1- '0-=00
cor-o

0MO

r00

~C>

r-C
C>mOO 0

r

l0 CO
;4

'IliC

Na

- :r -

w w
000C)

CO
0a =-

-iI-c
4COOc
145

OD

0 004CC44C0

t 0C0
cq L- t
r-rCACOOCO
C),-

X000 0r-O0C1 oO
C0).-C- m

C D-4

C .140to0000c4

rC5 (Z

0 az-0

1-COOC 0cqC
COc 00 -40
CO

04 1- ()
0-400

coCD 0 0 0.)
ai m O0 0 'rt.4

00CID
D
OCC
-o o
0 to CO COOg CO -4

CO-INOOt-COC
.1
MO C: COD0 CO
,Zo

-~00
CD

C00 0r-c mC>
rr-- to ooc o CO

o0 rC
-4-C 00 C
00L-00 Clo
0

0

0

?I

60

OD O00

O'- LI)(-C
00,
4, cq 0to C-

0

d
-L-40o0
00

01 G CDC00
I'D

.4

.C

.

=00co C)
1 coc

.4C
O

..

91
0
0

. .4~C

f'~

~

0

0d..O .r25.

0d

05
00

U

0~

(50

2

~ ~

0~

-

6

SMYTH v. AMES.
Opinion of the Court.

It may be here stated that the words in these exhibits,
"number of tons hauled locally," refer to freight that started
and ended in the State; the words in Exhibit 4, "1amount received for freight hauled in Nebraska, including through
and local," and the like words in Exhibit 19, refer not only to
freight starting and ending in the State, but to all freight
hauled by the railroad company in Nebraska, regardless of
its destination or origin -that is, "freight that begins in the
State and goes out of the State, freight that begins out of the
State and comes into the State and freight which begins
and ends in the State." The words, "per cent of reduction
on all the business done in the State by House Roll 33," in
Exhibits 4 and 19, mean the percentage of the total amount
of all business, passenger and freight, done in the State, whatever its origin or destination, and do not indicate the percentage of reduction on local business when considered alone.
It should be stated also that the words, "percentage of expenses to earnings," in Exhibit 20, refer to all business, through
and local, done by the railroad company within the State.
Mr. Dilworth, as we have seen, testified that if the local business alone were considered, the percentage of expenses to
earnings upon such business would be at least ten per cent
more than the general percentage of expenses to earnings on
all business, both through and local. It is important here to
note that his estimates are of business from July 1st to the
succeeding June 30th. So that when allusion is made presently
to his estimates for 1891, 1892 and 1893, it will be understood
to refer to the years ending the 30th days of June, 1891, 1892
and 1893, respectively.
From July 1, 1890, to June 30, 1891, as shown by Exhibit
20, the percentage of expenses to earnings on all business on
the Burlington road was 66.24; on the St. Paul road, 70.78;
on the Fremont road, 49.87; on the Union Pacific road, 68.94 ;
on the Omaha road, 120.26; on the St. Joseph road, 96.44;
and on the Kansas City road, 99.54;
From July 1, 1891, to June 30, 1892, as shown by the
same Exhibit, the percentage of expenses to earnings on all
business on the Burlington road was 64.23; on the St. Paul

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

road, 65.96 ; on the Fremont road, 70.71 ; on the Union Pacific
road, 56.44; on the Omaha road, 93.12; on the St. Joseph
road, 74.23; and on the Kansas City road, 75.19; and,
From July 1, 1892, to June 30, 1893, as shown by the
same Exhibit, the percentage of expenses to earnings on all
business on the Burlington road was 65.51; on the St. Paul
road, 64.58; on the Fremont road, 53.66; on the Union Pacific
road, 58.51; on the Omaha road, 94.14; on the St. Joseph
road, 62.05; and on the Kansas City road, 76.50.
In view of the reduction of 29.50 in rates prescribed by the
statute and of the extra cost of doing local business, as compared with other business, what do these facts show?
Take the case of the Burlington road from July 1, 1890, to
June 30, 1891. Looking at the entire business done on it
during that period within the limits of the State, we find that
the percentage of operating expenses to earnings on all business - which, as stated, does not include the extra cost of
local business - was 66.24. Add to this the extra cost of local
business, estimated at at least ten per cent, and the result is that,
under the rates charged during the period stated; the cost to
the Burlington Company of earning $100 would have been
$76.24. Now, if the reduction of 29. per cent made by the
act of 1893 had been in force prior to July 1, 1891, the company would have received $70.50 as against $100 for the same
service, showing that in that year the operating expenses
would have exceeded the earnings by $5.74 in every $100 of
the amount actually received by it.
By like calculations, it will appear that each of the railroad
companies would have conducted its local business at a loss
during the periods stated, except that in the year ending June
30, 1891, and in the year ending June 30, 1893, the earnings
of the Fremont Company, and in the years ending the 30th
days of June, 1892 and 1893, respectively, the earnings of the
Union Pacific Company, would have slightly exceeded their
operating expenses.
Under the rates prescribed by the act of 1893 the cost to
the respective companies of local business in Nebraska would
have exceeded the earnings for the years ending June 30,

SAfYTt

v. AMES.

Opinion of the Court.
1891, 1892 and 1893, respectively, in every one hundred dollars of the amount actually received, as follows: To the Burlington Company, by $5.74, 83.73 and $5.01; to the St. Paul
Company, by $10.28, $5.46 and $4.08; to the Omaha Company, by $59.76, $32.62 and $33.64; to the St. Joseph Company,
by $35.94, $13.73 and $1.55 ; and to the Kansas City Company,
by $39.04, $14.69 and $16. The cost to the Union Pacific
Company for the year ending June 30, 1891, of its local
business, under the rates prescribed by the statute of 1893,
would have caused a loss of $8.44 in every one hundred dollars of the amount actually received.
In order to show these results at a glance, the table on page
536 is inserted upon the basis of one hundred as representing
the amounts actually charged and received by the respective
railroad companies for the years given.
There are other views of the case suggested by the above
exhibits and table which show the same results.
In the year ending June 30, 1891, under the rates then in
force, the Burlington Company received $1,066,871 for tons
carried locally. If the business .had been done under the rates
prescribed" by the act of 1893, it would have received 2921 per
cent less, that is, only $752,145 or $314,726 less than it did
receive. The percentage of expenses to earnings, including
the extra cost of local business, was 76.24; that is, it cost
$813,382 to earn $1,066,871. So that the difference between
$813,382 and $752,145 shows that, if the rates prescribed by
the statute of 1893 had been in force during the year ending
June 30, 1891, the amount received would have been less
than the operating expenses of the Burlington Company by
$61,437.
During the year ending June 30, 1892, the same company
received for tons carried locally $1,237,884. If the act of
1893 had been in force, it would have received, because of
the reduced rates prescribed by that act, only $872,709 -less
by $365,175 than it did receive. The percentage of expenses
to earnings, including the extra cost of local business, was
74.23; that is, the $872,709 would have been earned at a cost
of $918,881. So that under the rates prescribed by the act

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

,

"

N

Loss.

Burlington Company .
St. Paul Company .
Fremont Company .
Union Pacific Company.
Omaha Company.
.
St. Joseph Company

66.24
70.78
49.87
68.94
20.26
96.44

10
10
10
10
10
10

70.2
8.8
59.7
.4
6
1
4

7.50
7.50
7.50
.50
.50
.50

5.74
10.28
. . .
8.44
59.76
35.94

Kansas City Company .
1892.
Burlington Company .
St. Paul Company .
Fremont Company .
Union Pacific Company.
Omaha Company. . .
St. Joseph Company
Kansas City Company .

99.54

10

10.4

7050

39.04

64.23
65.96
70.71
56.44
93.12
74.23
75.19

10
10
10
10
10
10
10

70.23
86.78

70.50
70.60

3.73
5.46

59.71

70.50

78.94
103.12
84.23
8.19

70.50
70.50
70.50
70.50

.8 .
32.62
13.73
14.69

65.51
64.98
53.66
58.51
94.14
62.05
76.10

10
10
10
10
10
10
10

74.51
74.98
63.6
68.41
104.14
72.05
86.50

70.50
70.50
70.50
70.50
70.50
70.50
70.50

5.01
4.08

1893.
Burlington Company .
St. Paul Company . .
Fremont Company .
Union Pacific Company.
Omaha Company. . .
St. Joseph Company .
Kansas City Company

Gain.

10.63

.210.

10 .
. . .
33.64
1.55
16.00

4.06

6.84
1.99

of 1893 the loss during the period named would have been
During the year ending June 30, 1893, that company received S1,21:2,416 for tons carried locally; whereas, under the
9 per cent reduction prescribed by the statute of that year,
it would have received only $875,905, that is, less by $366,51
than it did receive. The percentage of its expenses to earnings in that year, including the extra cost of local business, was
75.51; that is, under the statutory rates $875,905 would have
been earned at a cost of $938,147; which would have been a
loss of $62,243.

SINYTII v. AMES.
Opinion of the Court.

By the same mode of calculation, it will be found that, if
the statute of 1893 had been enforced during the years ending the 30th days of June, 1891, 1892 and 1893, respectively,
the other companies would have lost, that is, their expenses
would have exceeded their earnings during those years by
the following amounts: The St. Paul Company, $11,403,
$6716 and $5814; the Fremont Company, $34,377 for the
year ending June 30, 1892; the Union Pacific Company,
$23,480, for the year ending June 30, 1891; the Omaha
Company, $45,166, $28,813 and $27,085; the St. Joseph
Company, $7840, $4256 and $523; and the Kansas City Company, $2627, $974 and $1510; while the earnings of the
Union Pacific Company would have exceeded its expenses for
the years ending the 30th days of June, 1892 and 1893, respectively, by $16,170 and $8234; and those of the Fremont
Company by $37,037 and $29,036 for the years ending the
30th days of June, 1891 and 1893, respectively.
These results will be seen in the table on page 538, based
upon the above exhibits, and assuming that 10 per cent was
the very lowest amount of the extra cost of business beginning
and ending in the State.
Counsel for the appellants contend that the railroad companies in Nebraska derived a profit from their local tonnage
of nearly 100 per cent over and above operating expenses.
This contention is based upon the evidence given by William
Randall, freight and ticket agent as well as auditor of the
Burlington road in Nebraska, on his first examination as a
witness. He then stated that the earnings of the company
for the year 1892-meaning for the year beginning January
1, 1892- upon freight starting and ending within the State
were $1,853,036.59, and that the operating expenses, including
taxes, on that business were $972,183.70. These figures,
counsel say, show that "there was a clear profit over operating expenses, including taxes, of nearly one hundred per cent
on the local business of the Burlington Company in 1892."
But counsel overlook the fact that, upon his second examination, Mr. Randall stated that his first figures were not correct,
and that the operating expenses on local business in 1892 were

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

CID20
C0 -4
(0

00

(N cokL-- - X--

10"
4

C".)
2'0I.04 0

04

L-

CD C
I"
0o

*...

~o~c

o

..

*c.O

c~l

. .

-4--.-4
-4'
oo
1;0cZt-

c 0

1- O
O02

m00co t-

C>lcC

= cq

~

co c, Il
=40k-

~

.Q

co

'I*.

.

...

.
-c
'140C

c c

'.0-to
0

V

ccc0

rA

.OC.4...
=- 0 0'g

02C ;

C-LZ
0

.00'

.C.

,-4 0 .- M Cl04 002
0 1) o< 00z

V

'caOO
00 c~

4

040

02-4
.04

*

~ *a

02o

m -11140
o 10 0 t

coec

coCqt
000
02c
c
0C-1

Eio
t- COO
C
OD0-4 co
02M ' 1 4 ' D00 too~
co
20L L- q

.0

0

0

0o

~~

o~~'ol:

-.

4

.0

0

'-d'C

1CO00 0

0

q

00 0D.-

~lc

os

-

-4 14 Co
'0' -V-

coCZI02

o'4L

00-

.0

0 Ca .- 40
toCO CO
co
00 = - 00co200
CD

mO m0400 1-4400 dq
O'00
-V-102t--

0' :0-~= m C 4'0
Cc000=OCO04

t-0.I

0C
m
0200
02 -4 C-. 04'0

'C4c0
)0 co
'- C0
41
'4004020202tc.
V, q 4C402cq o

1

4;

00t

010

02
CO'

0
LDt

400
0C
0244c

O 0040.-

0 t--Lco-I

11

I
O'

,m44)'0k-024
0
-0C
- LC-CM020

Dw

aqt

,4

L- I'D(D
00
'0Z
OD
C-k
cq0 0o0

~

K

t-t- 11
LIZ0C-00
all r-q 0.- CO

'44.

~

'00

'00,- 00
0
%0,14
C
I00400

co C> 00

...

4 -D04

jLDc

'400di
.3-I
liXL- 00
'
C
0
40
04
01 CD-020
10

--

0c
O- o co C) co
ODC LI- 10.-)0
'000L
c
C-1)000 -4
0001
m
c
O
4 o-V
CO.r
,-4

Hc

q

'00r4Lk-,D00--4
0 004C
)C
0
D CO4
02aD-

020
0000

0

0020-0

k-O0220

0).2

Ca0000

0>

4W40a

0

0

Pm~dOP

ww

SMYTH v. AMES.
Opinion of the Court.

This agrees with the
81,221,742.81, and not $972,183.70.
figures given by M[r. Taylor, another auditor of the Burlington
Company. Now, if the act of 1893 had been in force during
1892, the earnings in the latter year, $1,853,036.59, would
have been reduced by 29i per cent, that is, by $546,645.79,
leaving $1,306,390.80 as the total receipts on local business,
which, after deducting operating expenses, $1,221,742.84,
would leave a profit of $84,567.97. If, as counsel for appellees
contend, 10 per cent be added as the extra cost of local business, the result would show an actual loss on that business
during the whole of 1892. But if that mode of calculation be
not adopted, the utmost that can be said to be established by
the evidence of Taylor and Randall would be that if the rates
fixed by the act of 1893 had been in force during 1892, the
company- would have received on local business, in the latter
year, $84,64:7.96 over and above operating expenses, or a little
over 6 per cent of the amount of those expenses. The difference between the figures of Dilworth and Taylor and Randall,
as to the earnings of the Burlington Company, arises, so far
as we can perceive, from the fact that their calculations cover
different periods. Dilworth gave the earnings from July 1,
1891, to June 30, 1892; and speaks of them as the earnings
for 1892, while Taylor and Randall gave the earnings from
January 1, 1892, to December 31, 1892. There may have
been an unusual amount of business during the last six months
of 1892 embraced in the estimates of Taylor and Randall, and
not embraced by Dilworth's estimates. We cannot, therefore,
say that the testimony of Taylor and Randall overthrows the
estimates of Dilworth.
It is said by the appellants that the local rates established
by the Nebraska statute are much higher than in the State of
Iowa, and that fact shows that the Nebraska rates are reasonable. This contention was thus met by the Circuit Court:
"It is, however, urged by the defendants that, in the general tariffs of these companies, there is an inequality; that
the rates in Nebraska are higher than those in adjoining States,
and that the reduction by House Roll 33 simply establishes
an equality between Nebraska and the other States through

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

which the roads run. The question is asked, Are not the
people of Nebraska entitled to as cheap rates as the people of
Iowa ? Of course, relatively they are. That is, the roads
may not discriminate against the people of any one State, but
they are not necessarily bound to give absolutely the same
rates to the people of all the States; for the kind and amount
of business and the cost thereof are factors which determine
largely the question of rates, and these vary in the several
i States. The volume of business in one State may be greater
per mile, while the cost of construction and of maintenance is
less. Hence, to enforce the same rates in both States might
result in one in great injustice, while in the other it would
only be reasonable and fair. Comparisons, therefore, between
the rates of two States are of little value, unless all the elements that enter into the problem are presented. It may
be true, as testified by some of the witnesses, that the existing
local rates in Nebraska are 40 per cent higher than similar
rates in the State of Iowa. But it is also true that the
mileage earnings in Iowa are greater than in Nebraska. In
Iowa there are 230 people to each mile of railroad, while in
Nebraska there are but 190; and, as a general rule, the more
people there are the more business there is. Hence, a mere
difference between the rates in two States is of comparatively
little significance." 64 Fed. Rep. 165. In these views we
concur, and it is unnecessary to add anything to what was
said by the Circuit Court on this point.
It is further said, in behalf of the appellants, that the reasonableness of the rates established by the Nebraska statute
is not to be determined by the inquiry whether such rates
would leave a reasonable net profit from the local business
affected thereby, but that the court should take into consideration, among other things, the whole business of the company,
that is, all its business, passenger and freight, interstate and
domestic. If it be found upon investigation that the profits
derived by. a railroad company from its interstate business
alone are sufficient to cover operating expenses on its entire
line, and also to meet interest, and justify a liberal dividend
upon its stock, may the legislature prescribe rates for domestic

SMYTH v. AM -ES.
Opinion of the Court.

business that would bring no reward and be less than the services rendered are reasonably worth ? Or, must the rates for
such transportation as begins and ends in the State be established with reference solely to the amount of business done by
the carrier wholly within such State, to the cost of doing such
local business, and to the fair value 'of the property used in
conducting it, without taking into consideration the amount
and cost of its interstate business, and the value of the property employed in it? If we do not misapprehend counsel,
their argument leads to the conclusion that the State of INebraska could legally require local freight business to be conducted even at an actual loss, if the company earned on its
interstate business enough to give it just compensation in respect of its entire line and all its business, interstate and
domestic. We cannot concur in this view. In our judgment,
it must be held that the reasonableness or unreasonableness of
rates prescribed by a State for the transportation of persons
and property wholly within its limits must be determined without reference to the interstate business done by the carrier, or to
the profits derived from it. The State cannot justify unreasonably low rates for domestic transportation, considered alone,
upon the ground that the carrier is earning large profits on its
interstate business, over which, so far as rates are concerned,
the State has no control. Nor can the carrier justify unreasonably high rates on domestic business upon the ground that it
will be able only in that way to meet losses on its interstate
business. So far as rates of transportation are concerned,
domestic business should not be made to bear the losses on
interstate business, nor the latter the losses on domestic business. It is only rates for the transportation of persons and
property between points within the State that the State can
prescribe; and when it undertakes to prescribe rates not to be
exceeded by the carrier, it must do so with reference exclusively to what is just and reasonable, as between the carrier
and the public, in respect of domestic business. The argument that a railroad line is an entirety; that its income goes
into, and its expenses are provided for, out of a common fund;
and that its capitalization is on its entire line, within and with-

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

out the State, can have no application where the State is without authority over rates on the entire line, and can only deal
with local rates and make such regulations as are necessary to
give just compensation on local business.
Touching the suggestion that the reduction on rates made
by the state law was reasonable, if regard be had to all the
business, through and local, done in the State by the railroad
companies, the Circuit Court said:
"But again, as Mr. Dilvorth testified, the average reduction on local rates caused by House Roll 33 is 29A per cent.
The tariff which was in force at the time of the passage of
this act had been, for some three or more years, fixed by the
voluntary action of the railroad companies, and the reduction
of 29J per cent was from their rates. It must be remembered
that these roads are competing roads; that competition tends
to a reduction of rates - sometimes, as the history of the country has shown, below that which affords any remuneration to
those who own the property. Can it be possible that any business so carried on can suffer a reduction of 291 per cent in its
receipts without ruin? What would any business man, engaged
in any business of a private character, think of a compulsory
reduction of his receipts to the amount of 291 per cent? The
effect of this testimony is not destroyed by the table offered of
the percentage of reduction on the total amount of business
done by these companies in the State as follows:
"B. & Al. R ...................... 4.2 per cent.
"C., St. P., A. & 0 ................ 4.5 per cent.
"F., E. &. A. B ................... 4.1 per cent.
"Union Pacific ................... 2.0 per cent.
"0. & R. V...................... 1.9-per cent.
"St. J. & G. I .................... 2.7 per cent.
"K. C. & 0 ...................... 1.5 per cent.
"For such a table only indicates, as is further shown by
Defendants' Exhibit 4, how small a proportion of the total
amount of business done in the State comes from purely local
freight. Nor is it weakened by any comparison between the
amount of reduction and the total receipts from all business.

SMYTH v. AMES.
Opinion of the Court.

It may be, As stated by counsel, that the annual earnings of -the
Chicago, Burlington and Quincy-Company are $27,916,128, and
that the total amount of reduction caused by this House Roll
33 is only $365,175. It may be that the capital stock of the
company is $76,407,500, and that $365,175 distributed among
the stockholders may not be for any of them a great sum; but
the entire earnings of the C., B. & Q. are more than twenty
times the receipts from local freight in Nebraska; and to reduce such earnings by twenty times $365,175 would make a
startling difference in their amount. The fact that the State of
Nebraska can reach only one twentieth of the total earnings,
gives it no greater right to make a reduction in respect to that
one twentieth than it would have, had it the power over the
total earnings, and attempted in them a like per cent of reduction. If it would be unreasonable to reduce the total earnings
of these roads 29J per cent, it is at least, primafacie, equally
unreasonable to so reduce any single fractional part of such
earnings."
It appears, from what has been said, that if the rates prescribed by the act of 1893 had been in force during the years
ending June 30, 1891, 1892 and 1893, the Fremont Company,
in the years ending June 30, 1891, and June 30, 1893, and the
Union Pacific Company, in the years ending June 30, 1892,
and June 30, 1893, would each have received more than
enough to pay operating expenses. Do those facts affect the
general conclusion as to the probable effect of the act of 1893?
In the discussion of this question, the plaintiffs contended that
a railroad company is entitled to exact such charges for transportation as will enable it, at all times, not only to pay operating expenses, but also to meet the interest regularly accruing
upon all its outstanding obligations, and justify a dividend
upon all its stock; and that to prohibit it from maintaining
rates or charges for transportation adequate to all those ends
will deprive it of its property without due process of law, and
deny to it the equal protection of the laws. This contention
was the subject of elaborate discussion ; and, as it bears upon
each case in its important aspects, it should not be passed
without examination.

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

In our opinion, the broad proposition advanced by counsel
involves some misconception of the relations between the
public and a railroad corporation. It is unsound in that it
practically excludes from consideration the fair value of the
property used, omits altogether any consideration of the right
of the public to be exempt from unreasonable exactions, and
makes the interests of the corporation maintaining a public
highway the sole test in determining whether the rates established by or for it are such as may be rightfully prescribed as
between it and the public. A railroad is a public highway,
and none the less so because constructed and maintained
through the agency of a corporation deriving its existence and
powers from the State. Such a corporation was created for
public purposes. It performs a function of the State. Its
authority to exercise the right of eminent domain and to charge
tolls was given primarily for the benefit of the public. It is,
under governmental control though such control must be exercised with due regard to the constitutional guarantees for the
protection of its property. Olcott v. The Sipervisors,16 Wall.
678, 694; Sinking Fundcases, 99 U. S. 700, 719 ; Oherokee Eation v. Southern,Kansas Railway, 135 U. S. 641, 657. It cannot,
therefore, be admitted that a railroad corporation maintaining
a highway under the authority of the State may fix its rates
with a view solely to its own interests, and ignore the rights of
the public. But the rights of the public would be ignored if
rates for the transportation of persons or property on a railroad are exacted without reference to the fair value of the
property used for the public or the fair value of the services
rendered, but in order simply that the corporation may meet
operating expenses, pay the interest on its obligations, and declare a dividend to stockholders.
If a railroad corporation has bonded its property for an
amount that exceeds its fair value, or if its capitalization is
largely fictitious, it may not impose upon the public the burden of such increased rates as may be required for the purpose
of realizing profits upon such excessive valuation or fictitious
-capitalization; and the apparent value of the property and
franchises used by the corporation, as represented by its

S-MYT11 v. AMES.
Opinion of the Court.

stocks, bonds and obligations, is not alone to be considered
when determining the rates that may be reasonably charged.
What was said in Covington & Lexington Turnpike Road Co.
v. Sandford, 164: U. S. 578,.596-7, is pertinent to the question
under consideration. It was there observed: "It cannot be
said that a corporation is entitled, as of right, and without
reference to the interests of the public, to realize a given per
cent upon its capital stock. When the question arises whether
the legislature has exceeded its constitutional power in prescribing rates to be charged by a corporation controlling a
public highway, stockholders are not the only persons whose
rights or interests are to be considered. The rights of the
public are not to be ignored. It is alleged here that the
rates prescribed are unreasonable and unjust to the company
and its stockholders. But that involves an inquiry as to what
is reasonable and just for the public.

.

.

.

The public can-

not properly be subjected to unreasonable rates in order simply
that stockholders may earn dividends. The legislature has
the authority, in every case, where its power has not been
restrained by contract, to proceed upon the ground that the
public may not rightfully be required to submit to unreasonable exactions for the use of a public highway established and
maintained under legislative authority. If a corporation cannot maintain such a highway and earn dividends for stockholders, it is a misfortune for it and them which the Constitution does not require to be remedied by imposing unjust.
burdens upon the public. So that the right of the public to.
use the defendant's. turnpike upon payment of such tolls as in
view of the nature and value of the services rendered by the
company are reasonable, is an element in the general inquiry
whether the rates established by law are unjust and unreasonable."
A corporation maintaining a public highway, although it
owns the property it employs for accomplishing public objects,
must be held to have accepted its rights, privileges and franchises subject to the condition that the government creating
it, or the government within whose limits it conducts, its business, may by legislation protect the people against ualreasonr
VOL. CLx=x-35

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

able charges for the services rendered by it. It cannot be
assumed that any railroad corporation, accepting franchises,
rights and privileges at the hands of the public, ever supposed
that it acquired, or that it was intended to grant to it, the
power to construct and maintain a public highway simply for
its benefit, without regard to the rights of the public. But it
is equally true that the corporation performing such public services and the people financially interested in its business and
affairs have rights that may not be invaded by legislative
enactment in disregard of the fundamental guarantees for the
protection of property. The corporation may not be required
to use its property for the benefit of the public without
receiving just compensation for the services rendered by it.
How such compensation may be ascertained, and what are
the necessary elements in such an inquiry, will always be an
embarrassing question.. As said in the case last cited: "Each
case must depend upon its special facts; and when a court,
without assuming itself to prescribe rates, is required to
determine whether the rates prescribed by the legislature for
a corporation controlling a public highway are, as an entirety,
so unjust as to destroy the value of its property for all the purposes for which it was acquired, its duty is to take into consideration the interests both of the public and of the owner of
the property, together with all other circumstances that are
fairly to be considered in determining whether the legislature
has, under the guise of regulating rates, exceeded its constitutional authority, and practically deprived the owner of property without due process of law.

.

.

.

The utmost that

any corporation operating a public highway can rightfully demand at the hands of the legislature, when exerting its general
powers, is that it receive what, under all the circumstances, is
such compensation for the use of its property as will be just
both to it and to the public."
We hold, however, that the basis of all calculations as to
the reasonableness of rates to be charged by a corporation
maintaining a highway under legislative sanction must be the
fair value of the property being used by it for the convenience
of the public. And in order to ascertain that value, the

SM7YTI

v. AMES.

Opinion of the Court.

original cost of construction, the amount expended in permanent improvements, the amount and market value of its bonds
and stock, the present as compared with the original cost of
construction, the probable earning capacity of the property
under particular rates prescribed by statute, and the sum
required to meet operating expenses, are all matters for consideration, and are to be given such weight as may be just
and right in each case. We do not say that there may not
be other matters to be regarded in estimating the value of
the property. What the company is entitled to ask is a fair
return upon the value of that which it employs for the public
convenience. On the other hand, what the public is entitled
to demand is that no more be exacted from it for thd use of
a public highway than the services rendered by it are reasonably worth. But even upon this basis, and determining the
probable effect of the act of 1893 by ascertaining what could
have been its effect if it had been in operation during the
three years immediately preceding its passage, we perceive no
ground on the record for reversing the decree of the Circuit
Court. On the contrary, we are of opinion that as to most
of the companies in question there would have been, under
such rates as were established by the act of 1893, an actual
loss in each of the years ending June 30, 1891, 1892 and
1893; and that, in the exceptional cases above stated, when
two of the companies would have earned something above
operating expenses, in particular years, the receipts or gains,
above operating expenses, would have been too small to affect
the general conclusion that the act, if enforced, would have
deprived each of the railroad companies involved in these
suits of the just compensation secured to them by the Constitution. Under the evidence there is no ground for saying
that the operating expenses'of any of the companies were
greater than necessary.
In concluding this opinion, it may not be inappropriate to
say that the conclusions reached by us.as to the effect of the
Nebraska statute find some support in the report of the Board
of Secretaries of the Nebraska Board of Transportation made
in September, 1891, to the Board itself, and signed by Mr. Dil-

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

worth and his colleagues. That report was made pursuant to
a resolution of the Board requiring the Secretaries to prepare
a statement of facts in reference to the rates of transportation
in Nebraska. It contains a brief history of what it characterizes as "the controversy on the question of freight rates between the people and the railroads of the State," and embodies
such facts, figures and arguments as the Secretaries gathered
from both sides. The report says: "The present controversy
between the people and the railroads of this State originally
grew out of the question, not of rates or reduction of rates,
but of control. The people, recognizing the railroads as common carriers, not entitled under the state constitution to the
same broad liberty of action in business that the individual
citizen has, wanted to control the roads. The roads, impatient
of interference, wanted to control themselves and manage their
business in their own way." It further states: "We have
given you in the foregoing a brief history of the rate matter
as we have found it, and from that history and from the evidence and reports on file in our office we beg leave to submit in
conclusion the following findings of fact: First. We find from
the evidence and sworn statements and reports, on file in our
office, and from personal inspection, that the railroads in this
State could not be duplicated for a less sum than $30,000 per
mile, taking into consideration their equipments and depot
and terminal facilities." Here follow a mass of figures and
calculations, and the report concludes: "We further find that
the railroads are not in a condition to stand, nor do their
earnings, figured on a basis cost of $30,000 per mile and not
what they claim they cost, justify any cut in local rates of
this State at the present time; and further, that a reduction
in the local rates in this State would increase the through
rates to market for our grain and would be a blow at the industry of the State. This last finding is fully established by
the fact that the Board of Transportation reduced the local
rates on hard coal 60 per cent, and yet the price to the consumer was not lowered nor the price at the mines raised, which
shows conclusively that the through rates must have been
raised. In submitting this report we have presented the facts

SMYTH v. AMES.
Opinion of the Court.

and figures as we find them from evidence obtainable, from
sworn reports now on file in our office. And we would respectfully recommend that no action be taken that will in any way
jeopardize the interests of the producers of Nebraska, but that
all interests be protected in the fullest manner possible, as
provided by the foregoing findings."
To this report of the Secretaries is appended the "Findings
of the Board," from which we make this extract : "After a
careful and quite thorough investigation of the question of
freight rates in Nebraska, which has occupied much time, and
has taken a wide range, the state Board of Transportation
has arrived at the conclusion that the rates now in force in
this State cannot be generally reduced without doing violence
to the business interests of the State, and at the same time
injuring the shipping and producing classes. We have come
to this conclusion, not by taking the cost of construction and
equipments, nor the amount of stock and bonds issued per
niile, but by making our computations upon the basis of what
it would cost to duplicate the property at the present time.
It has been our endeavor to deal fairly and justly with the
question, and in arriving at a conclusion we have been gov,
erned only by the evidence, statements and facts produced
for our consideration. A candid examination and comparison of the figures presented to us in the unanimous report of
the Board of Secretaries, in the opinion of this Board, fully
justifies the conclusion reached : That a general reduction of
rates, as now in force over the State, is not practical at this
time."
So that we have the judgment of the state Board of Transportation, as constituted in 1891, that a general reduction of
rates could not then have been made without injury to the
business of the State, to say nothing of the interests of those
whose means were invested in railroad property. We are
unable to find from the record before us that the situation in
Nebraska had so changed in 1893 as to justify that being done
in that year which it was not safe or just to do in 1891.
But it may be added that the conditions of business, so far
as railroad corporations are concerned, have probably changed

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

for the better since the decree below, and that the rates prescribed by the statute of 1893 may now afford all the com-

pensation to which the railroad companies in Nebraska are
entitled as between them and the public. In anticipation,
perhaps, of such a change of circumstances, and the exceptional character of the litigation, the Circuit Court wisely
provided in its final decree that the defendants, members of
the Board of Transportation, might, "when the circumstances
have changed so that the rates fixed in the said act of 1893
shall yield to the said companies reasonable compensation for
the services aforesaid," apply to the court, by bill or otherwise
as they might be advised, for a further order in that behalf.
Of this provision of the final decree the state Board of Transportation, if so advised, can avail itself. In that event, if the
Circuit Court finds that the present condition of business is
,such as to admit of the application of the statute to the railroad companies in question without depriving them of just
compensation, it will be its duty to discharge the injunction
heretofore granted, and to uiake whatever order is necessary
to remove any obstruction placed by the decrees in these cases
in the way of the enforcement of the statute.
Perceiving no error on the record in the light of the facts
presented to, the Circuit Court,
The decree in each case must be afirmed.
The CHi F usmIOe took no part in the consideration or
decision of these cases.
M. TusTIcE MoKENA was not a member of the court
when they were argued and submitted, and took no part
in their decision.

