BARRETT v. UNITED STATES (No. 2).
Opinion of the Court.

were saved to any of these proceedings other than the exceptions before mentioned.
The result is that the judgment must be
Ajflrmed.

BARRETT v. UNITED STATES (No. 2).
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF SOUTH CAROLINA.
No. 175. Argued January 21, 1898.-Decided February 21, 1898.

It having been decided in Barrett v. United States, ante, 218, that the State
of South Carolina constitutes but one judicial district, it follows that the
indictment in this case was properly remitted to the next session of the
District Court of that district.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

-Mr. Charles C.-Lancasterfor plaintiff in error.
.Afr. Assistant Attorney General Boyd for defendants in
error.
MR.

CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER

delivered the opinion of the

court.
This was an indictment for conspiracy under section 5440
of the Revised Statutes, found by the grand jury "in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the District of South
Carolina begun and holden at Columbia within and for the
district aforesaid, on the fourth Monday of November, in the
year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and ninety-four,"
and on motion of the "United States attorney for the District of South Carolina," was by the Circuit Court, January
30, 1895, by order entered on its minutes, "remitted from the
Circuit Court of the United States for the district of South
Carolina to the district court df the United States for the
western district of South Carolina."

OCTOBER TERIYr, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

At the February term, 1895, of the District Court held at
Greenville, in the western district, the District Judge presiding, the defendant pleaded not guilty; the cause was tried,
defendant was found guilty, and, thereupon, was sentenced to
imprisonment and fine. From this judgment a writ of error
was prosecuted to this court.
On the trial defendant raised certain objections presented
by exceptions, which are enumerated in a bill of exceptions;
by demurrer that the indictment was found in the eastern
district of South Carolina, although the crime was charged to
have been committed in the western district; by preliminary
plea, "that the jurors of the grand jury by whom the indictment was found were drawn, summoned and empanelled from
both the eastern and western districts of South Carolina, instead
of from the western district of said State alone;" that the indictment was found in the circuit court of the United States
for South Carolina, held in the city of Columbia, in the eastern
district of said State, and was remitted to the district court for
the western district of said State; by motion on the close of
the testimony for the United States, "that the attorney for the
United States be required to elect on which one of the conspiracies he would ask for a conviction," that is, of several
distinct conspiracies, which the evidence tended to show; by
motion in arrest that the grand jurors, who found the indictment, were drawn, summoned and empanelled from both the
districts when the crime was charged to have been committed
in one of them; that the indictment was found in the eastern
district at a time when there was no law authorizing the
"holding any court of the United States for the western
district of South Carolina;" because the indictment was remitted "not to the district court of the United States for the
eastern district of South Carolina, but to the district court of
the western district of said State."
The court overruled all these objections, in whatever form
presented, and defendant excepted.
Sections 817, 1037 and 1038 of the Revised Statutes are as
follows:
"Sxc. 817. The grand and petit jurors for the district

BARRETT v. UNITED STATES (No. 2).
Opinion of the Court.

court, sitting in the western district of South Carolina, shall
be drawn from the inhabitants of said district who are liable,
according to the laws of said State, to do jury duty in the
courts thereof; and all jurors shall be drawn during the sitting
of the court for the next succeeding term."
"SEC. 1037. Whenever the district attorney deems it necessary, any circuit court may, by order entered on its minutes,
remit any indictment pending therein to the next session of
the district court of the same district, where the offence
charged in the indictment is cognizable by the said district
court. And in like manner any district court may remit to
the next session of the circuit court of the same district any
indictment pending in the said district court.
"SEC. 1038. Any district court may, by order entered on
its minutes, remit any indictment pending therein to the next
session of the circuit court for the same district, when, in the
opinion of such district court, difficult and important questions
of law are involved in the case; and thereupon the proceedings in such case shall be the same in the circuit court as if
such indictment had been originally found and presented
therein."
NYo objection was raised that the petit jury by which defendant was tried was not; and it was conceded at the bar
that it was, in fact, drawn from the inhabitants of the western district of the district of South Carolina, and no complaint
is preferred in that regard.
We have just decided that the State of South Carolina constitutes but one judicial district, and, this being so, the indictment was properly remitted, in accordance with section 1037,
to the next session of the district court of that district, begun
and holden on the first Monday of February, 1895, in the
western district of the district.
All other questions have been disposed of adversely to
plaintiff in error in the preceding case.
I
Judgment afi'mrned.

