OCTOBER TER.Af, 1897
Statement of the Case.

WILSON v. NORTH CAROLINA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NORTH
CAROLINA.
No. 558. Submitted January 17, 1898. -Decided

March 21, 1693.

Chapter 320 of the Laws of North Carolina of 1891 was a valid law, and
the action of the Governor of the State under it in suspending the
plaintiff in error as railroad commissioner, appointed under it, was, as
construed by the Supreme Court of that State, a valid exercise of the
power conferred upon the Governor by that act, and was due process of
law, within the meaning of the Constitution.
The Federal question which is attempted to be raised in this case is unfounded in substance, and does not really exist.
The judgment of the state court in this case operated of itself to remove
the plaintiff in error from the office of railroad commissioner, and there
is n foundation in the evidence for the allegation that his successor
knew of the filing of the supersedeas bond when he took possession of
the office, or was guilty of contempt in doing so.

Two motions were made in this case. The defendant in
error made a motion to dismiss the writ on the ground of
want of jurisdiction. The plaintiff in error obtained from
this court a rule against the relator Caldwell to show cause
why he should not be punished as for a contempt in proceeding upon the judgment of the state court after a writ of error
from this court had been allowed and a supersedeas bond duly
filed. The two motions were heard together. The following
were the facts presented upon the motion to dismiss:
By chapter 320, of the laws of 1891, the general assembly
of North Carolina passed an act creating a state railroad commission, the first section of which is set out in the margin.'
"There shall be three commissioners elected by the general assembly to
carry out the provisions of this act. . . . Said commissioners shall not
jointly, or severally, or in any way, be the holder of any stock or bond, or
be the agent or attorney or employ6 of any such company, or have any
interest in any way in such company, and shall so continue during the term
of his office, and in case any commissioner shall as distributee or legatee,
or in any other way, have or become entitled to any stock or bonds or

WILSON v. NORTH CAROLINA.
Statement of the Case.

At the same session the legislature passed another act making
such commission a court of record.
Under the authority of the first mentioned act, James W.
Wilson, the plaintiff in error, was elected railroad commissioner by the general assembly of 1893, for the term ending

April 1, 1899, and he duly qualified and entered upon the discharge of his duties as such railroad commissioner.
On the 241th of August, 1897, the Governor sent a communication to the plaintiff in error, in which, after stating that it
had been charged that he had been guilty of a violation of
the act above mentioned, and giving the particulars regarding
such violation, the Governor directed him to show cause on a
day named, at the office of the executive, in Raleigh, why he
should not be suspended from office, and a report thereof
made to the next general assembly according to law, and he
was directed on the return day of the notice to make answer
and proofs in writing and to be present in person or by counsel, at his election.
On the return day the plaintiff in error appeared and denied
in writing the various charges contained in the Governor's
communication, after which, in explanation of the charges, he
made a written statement in regard to them. The plaintiff in
error demanded of the Governor that the evidence against
him be produced and that he have an opportunity to confront
interest therein of any such company he shall at once dispose of the same;
and in case any commissioner shall fail in this, or in case any one of them
shall become disqualified to act, then it shall be the duty of the governor
to suspend him from office and to report the fact of his suspension, together with the reason therefor, to the next general assembly, and the
question of his removal from office shall be determined by a majority of
the general assembly in joint session. In any case of suspension the governor shall fill the vacancy, and if the general assembly shall determine that
the commissioner suspended shall be removed, then the appointee of the
governor shall hold until his successor is elected and qualified as hereinbefore provided, but if the general assembly shall determine that the suspended commissioner shall not be removed from his office, then the effect
shall be to reinstate him in said office. The person discharging the duties
of said office shall be entitled to a salary for the time he is so engaged, but
a commissioner who is suspended shall be allowed the salary during his
suspension in case he should be reinstated by the next general assembly."

OCTOBER TERM; 1897.
Statement of the Case.

his accusers and cross-examine the witnesses. This demand
was refused.
After receiving the answer and explanation of the plaintiff
in error, and after hearing him upon the return day, the Governor subsequently and on the 23d of September, 1897, sent
him a written notice, in which he said to the plaintiff in error
"that you have not only violated said act in the specification
set out in said act, but that you have otherwise, within the
meaning and intent and words of said act, become disqualified
to act." The Governor, therefore, assuming to proceed under
the statute, further informed the plaintiff in error that he
thereby suspended him "from the office of railroad commissioner and chairman of said commission, such suspension to
continue until the question of your removal or restoration
shall be determined by a majority of the general assembly
in joint session. The fact of your suspension, together With
the reasons therefor, and the evidence, documents and information connected therewith, will be reported to the next general assembly. You will further take notice that under and
by virtue of the powers conferred and duties imposed by law
upon the chief executive I have appointed L. 0. Caldwell, Esq.,
of the county of Iredell, to fill the vacancy created by your
suspension. Inasmuch as you are understood to deny the
power of the executive to suspend you from office, as provided by the statutes, I have requested Mhr. Caldwell to make
demand upon you for the possession of the office and upon
.your refusal, to bring action therefor to the end that the title
to the office may be judicially determined.
"D. L. RUSSEL;L, Governor."
The plaintiff in error in reply to the communication of the
Governor sent him the following letter:
"RALEIGH,

N. C., September 24, 1897.

"To D. L. RUSSELL, Governor.

"Sin: Yours of the 23d inst. is hereby acknowledged. In
reply I will say that I shall disregard your order to suspend, but will-continue to do business at the old stand until

WILSON v. NORTH CAROLINA.
Statement of the Case.

removed by a tribunal other than a self-constituted 'star
chamber.'
"JAS. W. WILSON,

"Cai .-ha Railroad Commission."
Mr. Caldwell duly qualified as railroad commissioner, and
thereupon demanded that the plaintiff in error should surrender the office, papers, records, etc., to him, which the
plaintiff in error refused to do. Mr. Caldwell then obtained
leave from the attorney general to bring this action in the
nature of a quo warranto to test the title to the office. In
the complaint the foregoing facts are set forth and a judg
ment asked determining the title to the office to be in relator
and granting him judgment for the possession thereof.
The defendant below served an answer, in which it was
admitted that the Governor undertook or attempted to suspend the defendant from his office, and that he designated
the plaintiff, the relator, for the vacancy which he had attempted to create, and that the relator had taken the oath
prescribed by law for railroad commissioner. It was also
admitted that the defendant refused to vacate his office or to
surrender the same to the relator, and the defendant alleged
that he was advised that his suspension was illegal, and that
he was still entitled to discharge the duties of his office. He
also set up that by an act of the general assembly of the
State the railroad commission had been constituted a court
of record inferior to the Supreme Court, to be known as the
board of railroad commissioners, and with general jurisdiction
as to all subjects embraced in the act creating the commission. Being a judge of a court of record, the defendant
alleged that the Governor had no constitutional power to
suspend him.
The answer then set forth the proceedings already mentioned, resulting in the suspension of the defendant by the
Governor, and it also set forth the various demands made by
defendant before the Governor, to be confronted with witnesses and to have an opportunity to cross-examine them, and
the Governor's refusal of those demands, and as a result the

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

defendant alleged that the Governor had without evidence and
without trial found that the defendant had violated the law-,
and had become disqualified to act as railroad commissioner,
and that he had, without a more specific finding, assumed to
suspend the defendant and deprive him of his office.
The defendant also alleged in his answer that the action
of the Governor was taken in violation of the Fourteenth
Amendment of the Constitution of the United States.
Upon these pleadings the action came on for trial, and the
record states that "at the conclusion of the reading of the
pleadings the defendant tendered the following issues and
demanded a trial by jury:
"1. Is the plaintiff entitled to the office of railroad
commissioner?
"2. Does the defendant unlawfully intrude into, hold and
exercise the office of railroad commissioner and chairman of
said commission?
"3. Has the defendant acquired any interest in any way in
the Southern Railway Company in violation of law?
"4. Has the defendant become disqualified to act as a fair
judge or commissioner, or has he become in any way disqualified to act?
"5. Did the defendant prior to September 1, 1897, sell and
convey for a valuable consideration the Round Knob Hotel to
R. M. Brown?
"6. Did the defendant demand of the Governor that the
evidence against him be produced and that he have an opportunity to confront his accusers and cross-examine the witnesses
against him?
"7. Was said demand refused?
"8. Was any evidence produced?"
The court refused to submit these questions to the jury and
the defendant excepted.
The plaintiff thereupon moved for judgment upon the complaint and answer. The defendant objected that the motion
was irregular and that the plaintiff should either demur or go
to trial before the jury, and that the statute in question and
the action of the Governor, set out in the pleadings, deprived

WILSON v. NORTH CAROLINA.
Opinion of the Court.

defendant of his office without due process of law and denied to him the equal protection of the laws, in violation of
the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United
States, the protection of which he expressly claimed.
The court ruled that the plaintiff was entitled to judgment
upon the pleadings, which judgment was thereupon rendered,
and the defendant excepted and appealed to the Supreme
Court of the State. After argument that court adjudged that
the defendant had been lawfully suspended from the office of
railroad commissioner; that the relator had been duly appointed to fill the vacancy thus created, and that the defendant should be ousted from and the relator inducted into that
office. Judgment to that effect was accordingly entered.
The defendant then sued out a writ of error from this court,
which was allowed. The two motions were then made, one to
dismiss the writ of error, and the other to punish the defendant as for contempt.
.Ar. 1. 0. Bu'ton for plaintiff in error.
.X&. James C. .Me Rae, X2% TF. H.Day and -Mr.A. C. Avery
for defendant in error.
M R. JusTicE PFE0xKHm, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court on the motion to dismiss.

A consideration of the facts convinces us that the motion
to dismiss this writ of error for lack of jurisdiction ought to
be granted.
Under the statute of 1891, creating the railroad commission
and providing for the appointment, suspension and removal
of the officers of such commission, the act of the Governor in
suspending the plaintiff in error was not a finality. Before
there could be any removal, the fact of suspension was to be
reported to the next legislature by the Governor, and unless
that body removed the officer the effect was to reinstate him
in office, and he then became entitled to the salary during the
time of his suspension.

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

In speaking of the statute and the purpose of this particular
provision the Supreme Court of the State said: "The duty of
suspension was imposed upon the Governor from the highest
motives of public policy to prevent the danger to the public
interests which might arise from leaving such great powers
and responsibilities in the hands of men legally disqualified.
To leave them in full charge of their office until the next
biennial session of the legislature, or pending litigation which
might be continued for years, would destroy the very object
of the law. As the Governor was, therefore, by the very
letter and spirit of the law, required to act and act promptly,
necessarily upon his own findings of fact, we are compelled to
hold that such official action was, under the circumstances,
due process of law. Even if it were proper, the Governor
would have no power to direct an issue like a chancellor."
The highest court of the State has held that this statute
was not a violation of the constitution of the State; that the
hearing before the Governor was sufficient; that the office
was substantially an administrative one, although the commission was designated, by a statute subsequent to that which
created it, a court of record; that the officer taking office
under the statute was bound to take it on the terms provided
for therein; that he was lawfully suspended from office; and
that he was not entitled to a trial by jury upon the hearing
of this case in the trial court. As a result the court held that
the defendant had not been deprived of his property without
due process of law, nor had he been denied the equal protection of the laws.
The controversy relates exclusively to the title to a state
office, created by a statute of the State, and to the rights of
one who was elected to the office so created. Those rights
are to be measured by the statute and by the constitution of
the State, excepting in so far as they may be protected by
any provision of the Federal Constitution.
Authorities are not required to support the general proposition that in the consideration of the constitution or laws of a
State this court follows the construction given to those instruments by the highest court of the State. The exceptions to

WILSON v. NORTH CAROLINA.
Opinion of the Court.

this rule do not embrace the case now before us. We are,
therefore, concluded by the decision of the Supreme Court of
North Carolina as to the proper construction of the statute
itself, and that as construed it does not violate the constitution
of the State.
The only question for us to review is whether the State,
through the action of its Governor and judiciary, has deprived
the plaintiff in error of his property without due process of
law, or denied to him the equal protection of the laws.
We are of opinion the plaintiff in error was not deprived of
any right guaranteed to him by the Federal Constitution, by
reason of the proceedings before the Governor under the
statute above mentioned, and resulting in his suspension from
office.
The procedure was in accordance with the constitution and
laws of the State. It was taken under a valid statute creating
a state office in a constitutional manner, as the state court
has held. What kind and how much of a hearing the officer
should have before suspension by the Governor was a matter
for the state legislature to determine, having regard to the
constitution of the State. The procedure provided by a valid
state law for the purpose of changing the incumbent of a
state office will not in general involve any question for review
by this court. A law of that kind does but provide for the
carrying out and enforcement of the policy of a State with
reference to its political and internal administration, and a
decision of the state court in regard to its construction and
validity will generally be conclusive here. The facts would
have to be most rare and exceptional which would give rise in
a case of this n ture to a Federal question.
Upon this subject it was said, in the case of Allen v.
Georgia,166 U. S.138, 140, as follows: "To justify any interference upon our part it is necessary to show that the course
pursued has deprived, or will deprive, the plaintiff in error
of his life, liberty or property without due process of law.
Without attempting to define exactly in what due process'of
law consists, it is sufficient to say that, if the Supreme Court
of a State had acted in consonance with the constitutional
VOL. cLx.-x-38

OCTOBER TERMI, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

laws of a State and its own procedure, it could only be in
very exceptional circumstances that this court would feel
justified in saying that there had been a failure of due legal
process. We might ourselves have pursued a different course
in this case, but that is not the test. The plaintiff in error
must have been deprived of one of those fundamental rights,
the observance of which is indispensable to the liberty of the
citizen, to justify our interference."
This statement is quoted with approval in -ioveyv. Elliott,
167 U. S. 409, 443.
No such fundamental rights were involved in the proceedings
before the Governor. In its internal administration the State
(so far as concerns the Federal Government) has entire freedom of choice as to the creation of an office for purely state
purposes, and of the terms upon which it shall be held by the
person filling the office. And in such matters the decision of
the state court, that the procedure by which an officer has
been suspended or removed from office was regular and was
under a constitutional and valid statute, must generally be
conclusive in this court.
In Kffennard v. Louisiana, 92 U. S. 480, the proceeding
under which the title to the office of Justice of the Supreme
Court of the State was tried, was held not to violate the
Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United
States. The court said the officer had an opportunity to be
heard before he was condemned. There was no intimation in
that case that a hearing such as was had here would be insufficient or that the officer would be entitled to be "confronted
with his accusers and to cross-examine the witnesses," and to
have a jury trial. In Foster v. .ansas, 112 U. S. 201, the
Kennard case was approved. Neither case gives any support
to the claim that such a hearing as was- given in this case
would be insufficient under the Fourteenth Amendment.
Nothing in that amendment was intended to secure a jury
trial in a case of this nature.
The demand made by the plaintiff in error for such a trial
in the court below must have been for the purpose of submitting to the jury the question of the truth of the allegations

WILSON v. NORTH CAROLINA.
Opinion of the Court.

set up in the answer regarding the proceedings before the
Governor, and to claim that if the jury found them to be true,
he was not legally suspended. But the motion for judgment
on the pleadings was equivalent to a demurrer to the answer
for insufficiency, and was, therefore, an admission of all the
facts well pleaded. The question then became one of law for
the court to decide, and in granting the motion the court did
decide that no defence was set forth in the answer. In a case
like this, such a decision of the state court is conclusive. The
mere refusal of a jury trial, in and of itself and separated
from all other matters, raises no Federal question. Walker
v. Sauvinet, 99 U. S. 90.
In the proceeding for trying the title to office in the case of
.Jennardv. Louisiana,92 U. S. 480, the statute provided for
a bearing without a jury, and this court held it was not objectionable for that reason.
Upon the case made by the plaintiff in error, the Federal
question which he attempts to raise is so unfounded in substance that we are justified in saying that it does not really
exist; that there is no fair color for claiming that his rights
under the Federal Constitution have been violated, either by
depriving him of his property without due process of law or
by denying him the equal protection of the laws.
In Hamblin v. Western Land Company, 147 U. S. 531, it
was stated that "a real, and not a fictitious, Federal question
is essential to the jurisdiction of this court over the judgments
of state courts. Ziillingar v. _hartipee, 6 Wall. 258 ; New
Orleans v. New Orleans Water TForks Co., 142 U. S. 79, 87.
In the latter case it was said that 'the bare averment of a
Federal question is not in all cases sufficient. It must not be
wholly without foundation. There must be at least color of
ground for such averment, otherwise a Federal question might
-be set up in almost any case, and the jurisdiction of this court
invoked simply for the purpose of delay.'"1
We think this case falls within the principle thus stated.
Although an office has been held in North Carolina to be
generally and in a certain restricted sense the property of the
incumbent, yet in this case the Supreme Court held that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

incumbent, in taking the office, holds its subject to the act
creating it, which binds him by all its provisions, all of which
were held to be valid. We should be very reluctant to decide
that we had jurisdiction in such a case, and thus in an action
of this nature to supervise and review the political administration of a state government by its own officials and through its
own courts. The jurisdiction of this court would only exist in
case there had been, by reason of the statute and the proceedings under it, such a plain and substantial departure from the
fundamental principles upon which our government is based
that it could with truth and propriety be said that if the
judgment were suffered to remain, the party aggrieved would
be deprived of his life, liberty or property in violation of the
provisions of the Federal Constitution.
We are of opinion that the facts herein present no such
case, and that the jurisdiction of this court does not extend to
the case as made in the record now before us.
For these reasons the motion of the defendant in error to
dismiss this writ should be granted, and the writ is accordingly
-Dismissed.
The following are the facts upon the motion to punish
defendant in error as for a contempt:
The plaintiff in error, after the entry of the judgment of the
Supreme Court affirming the judgment of ouster, sued out a
writ of error from this court, which was duly allowed by the
Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of that State on the 23d
day of December, 1897, and on the same day a good and sufficient bond, conditioned as required by law in cases of supersedeas, was tendered, and the Chief Justice duly approved it
and signed the citation. A few mifiutes after seven o'clock in
the afternoon of that day the writ of error with the petition
therefor and the assignment of errors and the citation and
bond were filed in the clerk's office of the state Supreme
Court, and at the same time copies of the writ of error were
lodged in the clerk's office, for the State of North Carolina
and for the relator. The plaintiff in error alleged, on informa-

WILSON v. NORTH CAROLINA.
Statement of the Case.

tion and belief, that the relator, with full knowledge of the
issuing of the writ and of the action of the Chief Justice, broke

into the room occupied as offices by the railroad commission
and took possession. The judgment of affirmance directed the
issuing of a writ of possession. On the morning of the 24th
of December, 1897, counsel for the relator made a motion in
the state court to set aside the supersedeas, while at the same
time counsel for the plaintiff in error made a motion that the
execution of the writ of possession issued on the judgment of
the state court be recalled on account of the supersedeas.
Both motions were refused, and an opinion delivered by :Mr.
Justice Clark holding that the judgment of the court ex ro2prio vigore placed the relator in the possession of the office at
the time the judgment was filed, and that such judgment took
effect immediately upon being entered, and it was not superseded by the subsequent writ of error, regular or irregular.
He also held that the court had no power to set aside the writ
of error or to pass upon the regularity thereof.
The relator made answer under oath. He alleged that after
the judgment of the Supreme Court of North Carolina was
rendered, and pursuant to its directions, a writ was issued out
Sof that court at half-past five o'clock of that day, and was immediately placed in the hands of the sheriff, and that the
sheriff went to the offices of the railroad commission for the
purpose of executing the writ, but that the plaintiff in error
could not be found, and that he was absent from the county
and State for the purpose, as alleged, of avoiding service of
the writ; that the doors of the commission's rooms were
locked, and the sheriff left the building for the purpose of
getting keys or other means of entry, but did not return,
and that the relator, after waiting a reasonable time for the
return of the sheriff and being advised by counsel that he
had good right in law so to do, procured the door of the
-room to be opened, and he then entered therein and assumed
to exercise the duties of the office of railroad commissioner.
He denied under oath that any notice of the filing of a
supersedeas by the plaintiff in error was served upon him, or
that he had any knowledge of the filing of said bond until

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

the day after the taking possession of the rooms of the commission as above stated.
M . JUSTICE PEcx

.Im,after stating the above facts, de-

livered the opinion of the court on the motion to punish for
contempt.
Plaintiff in error claims that by virtue of the allowance
of the writ of error and the filing of the supersedeas bond,
the relator was precluded from taking any step under the
judgment of the state court, which ousted the plaintiff in
error and adjudged the right to the office to be in the relator.
It is argued that the filing of a proper bond operates as a
supersedeas of the judgment in an action in the nature of a
quo warranto,as well as in any other action. United States,
ex rel. Crawford v. Addison, 22 How. 174. In that case
Addison held the office of mayor of the city of Georgetown.
Proceedings in the nature of quo warranto were commenced
against him by the United States on the relation of Crawford.
Upon the trial of the action judgment of ouster was entered
against the defendant. A writ of error from this court was
sued out by him and a sufficient bond was filed. The relator
applied to this court for a peremptory writ of mandamus to
be directed to the judges of the Circuit Court of the District
of Columbia commanding them to execute the judgment of
that court by which Addison had been ousted and the relator
adjudged entitled to the office. This court denied the motion,
and decided that after a writ of error had been sued out from
this court and the proper bond filed further proceedings were
stayed in the court below. It was not a case where immediately upon the entering of the judgment of ouster the court
had directed the possession of the office to be taken by the
relator, who had taken possession accordingly. The court
was asked to actively intervene to put the relator in possession of the office, notwithstanding the allowance of a writ of
error and the filing of a bond. The court refused to do so,
holding that the supersedeas bond stayed further proceedings
under the judgment.

WILSON v. NORTH CAROLINA.
Opinion of the Court.

In Fo8ter v. .fansas, 112 U. S. 201, the attorney general of
Kansas had instituted a proceeding to remove Foster, the
plaintiff in error, from the office of county attorney for Saline
County. The Supreme Court of Kansas rendered judgment
on the 1st of April, 1884, removing Foster, and, under a
statute of the State making it his duty so to do, the judge of
the district court of Saline County, upon being presented with
an authenticated copy of the record of the Supreme Court
which removed Foster, duly appointed Moore to such office,
and approved his bond on the 7th of April. A writ of error
from this court had been allowed in Washington on the 5th of
April, and the supersedeas bond approved and citation signed.
Although notice of these facts was telegraphed on the same
day from Washington to counsel in Kansas, who immediately
exhibited the telegram to the judge of the district court,
and notified him of what had been done in Washington, yet
neither the writ of error nor the supersedeas bond- arrived
from Washington until the 8th of April, on which day they
were duly lodged in the office of the clerk-of the Supreme
Court of the State. Moore, the appointee of the district judge,.
thereafter appeared as county attorney, and a rule was therefore granted requiring him to appear before this court and
show cause why he should not be adjudged in contempt for
violating the supersedeas. This court, after argument, held
that he wag not in contempt, and that the supersedeas was not
in force when Moore was appointed to and accepted the office.
The court said: "The judgment operated of itself to remove
Foster and leave his office vacant. It needed no execution to
carry it into effect. The statute gave the judge of the district court authority to fill the vacancy thus created. The
judge was officially notified of the vacancy on the 7th, when
the authenticated copy of the record of the Supreme Court
was presented to him. The operation of that judgment was
not stayed by the supersedeas until the 8th, that being the
date of the lodging of the writ of error in the clerk's office.
It follows that the office was in fact vacant when Moore
accepted his appointment, gave his bond and took the requisite
oath. He was thus in office before the supersedeas became,

OCTOBER TERAT, 1897.
Syllabus.

operative. What effect the supersedeas had, when it was
afterwards obtained, on the previous appointment, we need
not consider. This is not an appropriate form of proceeding to
determine whether Foster or Mloore is now legally in office."
The rule was therefore discharged.
In this case it is also true that the judgment operated of
itself to remove the plaintiff in error. The judgment also
adjudged the title to the office to be in the relator. After
the filing of the supersedeas bond it may be assumed that
further action under the judgment was stayed. The question
is whether the relator is shown to be guilty of a contempt in
proceeding to take possession after he knew of the filing of the
bond. He swears unequivocally that he was ignorant of the
fact of the allowance of a writ or the filing of the bond at
the time when he took possession of the room occupied by the
commission, and that he was not informed of that fact until
some time the next day. We think this a sufficient answer to
the case as it is now presented to us, and that any further proceeding is rendered unnecessary because of our conclusion to
dismiss the writ of error for want of jurisdiction. We see no
evidence of any intentional contempt on the part of relator,
and our conclusion is that the rule must be
.Dischargel.
In WILSON V. NORTH CAROLrNA, No. 559 submitted wth No. 558,
the same questions are involved and the same orders are made.

UNITED STATES, ex rel. BERNARDIN v. BUTTERWORTH.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
No. 404.

Submitted February 21, 1898.-Decided March 21,1898.

A suit to compel the Commissioner of Patents to issue a patent abates by
the death of the Commissioner, and cannot be revived so as to bring in
his successor, although the latter gives his consent.
The act of Maryland of 1785, c. 80, is not applicable to such a case.

