BUILDING AND LOAN ASSOCIATION v. PRICE.

45

Opinion of the Court.

BUILDING AND LOAN ASSOCIATION OF DAKOTA
v. PRICE.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 158. Submitted December 9, 1S9. -Decided

January 10, 1898.

The court below having dismissed the bill in this case on the ground that
it had no jurisdiction, as the matter in dispute was determined not to
exceed $2000 exclusive of interest and costs, this court examines the
bill at length in its opinion, and holds that upon the face of the pleading the matter in dispute is sufficient to give the court below jurisdiction, and remands the case for further proceedings, without determining
any of the other questions on the merits.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

.Mr.
J H-Rauser and -Mr. . TF Starling for appellant.
.M'. W. S. Simkins and .Mr. T. E. Conn for appellees.
MR.

JusTiE PE KHAm

delivered the opinion of the court.

The appellants herein commenced this action against the
defendants in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Texas, the complaint in which was filed
on the 3d of October, 1895. The defendants demurred on
the ground that the court had no jurisdiction of the several
subjects-matter set forth in the complaint, one of the objections being that the matter in dispute did not exceed $2000
exclusive of interest and costs.
The cause was heard in the Circuit Court, the demurrer
was sustained, and the bill dismissed with costs and without
prejudice, for want of jurisdiction of the subject-matter in
controversy. The complainant appealed to this court, which
appeal was allowed and granted solely upon the question of
the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court, and that question alone

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

has been certified. Whether the bill shows facts sufficient to
invoke the consideration of a court of equity is not such a
,question of jurisdiction as is referred to in the Judiciary Act of
March 3, 1891, c. 517, and we have therefore no concern with
that question. 2.6 Stat. 826, ยง 5; Smith v. Xe ay, 161 U. S. 355.
The decision of the only question before us depends upon
whether the allegations contained in the bill of complaint
.show the matter in dispute to be of sufficient value to give
the Circuit Court jurisdiction.
The appellant was incorporated under the laws of the State
,of South Dakota, and has its principal place of business in the
,city of Aberdeen, in that State. The action was brought
for the purpose of recovering the amount of an alleged debt,
.damages and costs against the defendants Price, :Rothschild
and Miller, and for a decree of foreclosure against the defendants H. M. Price and W. B. Luna, under a certain mort-gage and vendor's lien on the premises described therein.
The bill alleges, among other things, that on the first of
January, 1890, one Jacob :Rothschild applied for membership
in the complainant's association and subscribed for forty shares
-of its capital stock, which application was accepted, and on
that day a certificate for forty shares of the capital stock
was issued and delivered to him, and he paid the application or subscription fee due thereon, and the stock was ac-cepted and received by him upon the terms and conditions
therein set forth, and he thereupon became a member of the
-association and the holder and owner of forty shares of its
-capital stock.
The bill then proceeds as follows:
"3d. Your orator further shows that on or- about the said
first day of January, 1890, the said Jacob Rothschild, being
then and there a stockholder in your orator and entitled under
the rules, regulations and by-laws to make application for an
.advancement on his said stock, made his application to your
orator for an advancement of two thousand dollars in anticipation of the maturity value of his said forty shares of stock,
.and in competition with other bidders for the funds of -your

BUILDING AND LOAN ASSOCIATION v. PRICE.

47

Opinion of the Court.

,orator bid as a premium for the privilege of obtaining such
.advancement the sum of fifty dollars per share and offered
as security for the continued payment for the monthly dues
-on said forty shares of stock and the interest on said advancement the real estate hereinafter described; and your orator
further shows that said application and bid were made in
accordance with the rules, regulations and by-laws of said
association, and were duly accepted and approved by your
-orator's board of directors, and the advancement applied for
was duly made, and the amount due thereon was duly paid to
the said Jacob Rothschild; that said advancement was made
by your orator on the faith and in the expectation that the
said Rothschild would, according to his agreement, continue
the monthly payment on his said forty shares of stock until
:such stock should have become fully matured and of the value
-of one hundred dollars per share.
"4th. Your orator further shows that on or about the first
-day of February, 1890, the said Jacob Rothschild and the defendant, Bertha Rothschild, for- and in consideration of the
.advancement so made and for the purpose of securing the
continued payment of the monthly dues on said stock, made,
executed and delivered to your orator, and thereby promised
.and agreed to comply with the terms of a bond, of which the
.following is substantially a copy:
"' Know all men by these presents, that Jacob Rothschild
.and Bertha Rothschild, his wife, of the county of Dallas, and
State of Texas, are held and firmly bound unto the Building
and Loan Association of Dakota, of the city of Aberdeen, and
State of South Dakota, in the sum of four thousand ($4000)
-dollars, lawful money of the United States of America, to be
paid to the said association, its certain attorney, successors
-or assigns, at its home office in Aberdeen, South Dakota, to
which payment, well and truly to be made, we bind ourselves
and our heirs, executors and administrators, jointly and severally, firmly by these presents.
"' Sealed with our seals, and dated at Aberdeen, South Dakota, this first day of February, one thousand eight hundred
.and ninety.

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

"'The condition of this obligation is such that, whereas, said
Jacob Rothschild has bid, in accordance with the by-laws of
said association, the sum of two thousand ($2000) dollars, as
and for a premium for the advancement to him by said association of two thousand dollars, by way of anticipation of the
value, at their maturity, of forty shares of the capital stock
of said association, now owned by said Jacob Rothschild and,
whereas, said association has this day advanced to said Jacob
Rothschild the sum of two thousand dollars, in consideration
of said premium, and by way of said anticipation:
"'N1 ow, therefore, if the above bounden Jacob Rothschild
and Bertha Rothschild, their heirs, executors and administrators, or any of them, shall well and truly pay or cause
to be paid unto the said association, its certain attorney, successors or assigns, at its home office, on or before nine years
from date hereof, the just sum of four thousand dollars as
aforesaid, together with interest on two thousand dollars, at
the rate of six per cent per annum, from the first day of February, A.D. 1890, until paid, payable monthly in advance;
or shall well and truly pay, or cause to be paid, unto s'aid
association, its certain attorney, successor or assigns, at its
said home office, the sum of twenty-four and j% dollars on

the first day of each and every month hereafter, as and for
the monthly dues on said forty shares of capital stock of said
association now owned by the said Jacob Rothschild, and by
him hereby sold, assigned, transferred and set over to said
association as security for the faithful performance of this
bond, and shall also well and truly pay, or cause to be paid,
all instalments of interest aforesaid, and all fines which become due on the said stock, without any fraud or further
delay, until said stock becomes fully paid in and of the value
of one hundred dollars per share, and shall then surrender
said stock to said association; then, and in either of such
cases, the above obligation to be void, otherwise of full force
and virtue.
"' Provided, however, and it is hereby expressly agreed, that
if, at any time, default shall be made in the payment of said
interest, or the said monthly dues on said stock, for the space

BUILDING AND LOAN ASSOCIATION v. PRICE.

49

Opinion of the Court.

of six months after the same, or any part thereof, shall have
become due, or if the taxes and assessments on the property
mortgaged to secure the faithful performance of this bond be
not paid when due, or if the insurance policy or policies on
the said mortgaged property be allowed to expire without
renewal, then, and in either or any such case, the whole principal sum aforesaid shall, at the election of said association,
its successors or assigns, immediately thereupon become due
and payable, and the sum of four thousand dollars, less whatever sum has been paid said association, as and for the
monthly dues on said forty shares of said capital stock, at the
time of said default, may be enforced and recovered at once
as liquidated damages, together with and in addition to, all
interest and fines then due, and all costs and disbursements,
including said taxes, insurance and assessments, which have
been paid by said association, anything hereinbefore contained
to the contrary notwithstanding.
"'JAcOB ROTHsCHILD.

[SEAL.]

"'BERTHA ROTHSCHILD.

[SEAL.]

"'Signed, sealed and delivered in presence of "'W. L. HALL.
"'0.

S. CRYSLER.'

"5th. Your orator would further show that, on the first
day of February, 1890, the said Jacob Rothschild and the
defendant Bertha Rothschild, in order to better secure your
orator for the money advanced by your orator as aforesaid
and in all their agreements, obligations and contracts as aforesaid, made, executed and delivered to your orator their certain mortgage or deed of trust, with power of sale, in which
Charles S: Crysler was made trustee on the following described
tract or lot of land, situated in the city of Dallas, county of
Dallas, and State of Texas, and more particularly described
as follows:
(Here follows description of property.)
"6th. Your orator would further show that it is recited in
said deed of trust, among other things, that the said Jacob
Rothschild is a member of the Building and Loan Association
VOL. cL=Ix-4

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

of Dakota, and is the owner of forty shares of the capital stock
thereof, the monthly payments of which amount to $21.00;
and it is further recited that said deed of trust is given for
the purpose of securing the aforesaid bond, the nature of
which bond is fully set forth in said deed of trust.
"7th. Your orator would further show that it is stipulated
in said deed of trust that if the said defendants shall well and
truly pay or cause to be paid the sum of four thousand dollars, together with the interest above specified, within the
time and in the manner as in said bond specified, or shall pay
or cause to be paid, at the home office of said association, the
instalments of interest as they become due on said stock,
until said stock becomes fully paid in and of the value of one
hundred dollars per share, and before any of said instalments
of interest or monthly payments shall have been past due for
a period of sixty (60) days, and shall then surrender said stock
to said association in payment of said bond, and shall pay the
taxes and assessments and shall keep and perform all and every
of the conditions of said bond, then this deed shall be void and
the property hereinbefore conveyed shall be released at the
cost of the parties executing the said bond, but otherwise to
continue in full force and effect; but if default be made in the
payment of said sum or sums of money or any instalment of
interest thereon or of any monthly payment of stock for the
period of sixty (60) days after the same shall be due, or any part
of either, or in the payment of taxes at the time or times specified for payment, or in any condition in said deed of trust contained, then or in either or any such case the whole principal
sum or sums secured by this trust deed and the interest thereon
accrued up to the time -such default shall, at the election of
your orator, its successors or assigns, or its or their agent, become thereupon due and payable immediately upon said default.
Whereupon the trustee in said trust deed is authorized and empowered to sell said premises in accordance with the stipulations contained in said instrument, and with the proceeds of
.said sale to pay the expenses of sale and all sums of money
due by the terms of said bonds so in default, with all interest
due thereon, and all taxes, if any, due to said association.

BUILDING AND LOAN ASSOCIATION v. PRICE.

51

Opinion of the Court.

"8th. Your orator further shows that said forty shares of
stock have not been withdrawn, nor have they matured or
become of the par value of one hundred dollars per share;
that subsequent to the execution, delivery and record of the
aforesaid deed of trust the said Jacob Rothschild and Bertha
Rothschild conveyed the aforesaid premises to the defendant
Sophia Miller, who, as a part of the purchase price for said
premises, assumed and agreed to pay the said bond in the sum
of four thousand dollars, secured by the aforesaid deed of
trust lien, retaining a vendor's lien in said deed of conveyance
to secure the payment of the aforesaid sum of four thousand
dollars; that subsequently the said Sophia Miller conveyed
said premises in like manner to the defendant Al. S. Price as
her separate property, who, as a part of the purchase price
therefor, assumed and agreed to pay said bond secured by
said deed of trust lien, said Sophia Miller retaining a vendor's
lien for the payment thereof and for the payment of other
portions of the purchase money, by virtue of which she may
claim some interest in the aforesaid premises; that W. B.
Luna also claims some interest in the aforesaid premises, which
interest, if any, is subsequent and inferior to that of your
orators. โข"Your orator further alleges that it is now the owner and
holder of the said bond and deed of trust. Your orator
further shows that the said defendants have not paid said
principal sum of $4000, nor any part thereof; that the said
defendants have not continually paid the monthly dues on
said forty shares of stock, nor the monthly instalments of
interest as provided in said bond, but that defendants have
paid no part of said dues or interest except the sum of twelve
hundred dollars ($1200) as and for the said monthly dues for
the month of February, 1890, to and including the month of
March, 1894, and the further sum of $500 as and for the
interest, as in said bond provided, for the month of February,
1890, to and including the month of March, 1894.
"Your orator further shows that default has been made
in the payment of the monthly dues on said forty shares of
stock and the monthly instalments of interest on said ad-

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

vancement; that more than six months have elapsed since the
first monthly instalment of interest and dues so in default became due and payable, and your orator elects to declare the
whole sum named in and secured by said bond and deed of
trust to be immediately due and payable.
"9th. Your orator further shows that there is now due and
owing your orator from Bertha Rothschild, Sophia Miller,
H=.M. and ]M. S. Price under and by virtue of the terms of
said bond the sum of four thousand dollars, ($4000,) less the
sum of twelve hundred dollars, ($1200,) paid to your orator as
the monthly dues on said forty shares of capital stock at the
time of the aforesaid default, aggregating $2800, together
with and in addition to interest'on two thousand dollars, at
the rate of six per cent per annum, from April 1, 1894."
The complainant then prays for a decree against defendants
for the amount of the above-named debt, damages and costs,
and for a decree of foreclosure of the mortgage above set
forth.
We think upon the face of this pleading the matter in dispute exceeds the amount of two thousand dollars, exclusive of
interest and costs. Act of August 13, 1888, 25 Stat. 433, c. 866.
The by-laws of the complainant are not made a part of the
bill and they cannot be referred to for the purpose of aiding
or marring the pleading itself. In truth, they are not in the
record, and we are ignorant of their contents, except as some
matters set forth in the bill are alleged to be in conformity
with certain of their provisions. Nor can the inference be
indulged, on a question of jurisdictional amount, that the
whole scheme is a mere cover to conceal an usurious exaction
of interest for the loan of a sum of money not exceeding in
any event $2000. No such legal inference arises from the
facts stated in the bill. Or the contrary, it appears on the
face of the bill that the bompany was duly incorporated by
legislative act; that Rothschild, the original owner cf the
stock, applied for membership in the company, subscribed for
forty shares thereof, and promised to pay for it in the manner
stated. We cannot assume, as a matter of legal inference,

BUILDING AND LOAIN ASSOCIATION v. PRICE.

53

Opinion of the Court.

that the circumstances set forth in the bill constitute a cover
for usury, and we must take those allegations as they are made
.and assume their truth for the purpose of our decision.
The bill shows an application to complainant for an advance
of $2000 in anticipation of the maturity value of the shares
,of stock owned by Rothschild; that the application was
,granted and the advance applied for duly made and the
amount paid to Rothschild, and that it was made on the faith
.and in the expectation that he would, according to his agreement, continue the monthly payments on his stock until it
became fully matured and of the value of one hundred dollars
per share. The bond given as part security for the repayment of this advance contains distinct contracts. The
.obligor agreed to pay in nine years from the date thereof
$4000, and interest on $2000 at six per cent from February,
1890, until paid, the interest being payable monthly in advance ; or, instead of this payment, he agreed to pay $24: on
the first of every month at the home office of the company as
monthly dues, being at the rate of sixty cents per month on
-each share, there being forty shares of stock, and he agreed
to continue these payments until the stock became fully paid
'up and of the value of $100 per share, when he was to surTender it to the company, and he agreed also to pay the interest as stated above.
'We cannot assume, as' against the allegations contained in
the bill, that the payment of these monthly dues upon the
,contract was pursuant to an agreement to pay interest on the
loan, and that such payment was merely another name for
interest. It is alleged to be separate and distinct from that,
-and it is set up as a material portion of the obligation of the
borrower who, by subscribing for the shares and being ac'cepted, etc., thereby became a shareholder and entitled to
dividends and profits coming to the shares he held. Upon
-default in either of these distinct obligations, to pay interest
and to also pay his monthly dues, the whole sum at the option
of the association became due less whatever sum had been
paid it as the monthly dues at the time the default might be
-enforced. The bill here shows that there had been a default

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

for six months, and that there was due from defendants
at commencement of suit the sum of four thousand dollars,

less the sum of twelve hundred dollars of monthly dues which
had been paid up to and including March, 1894, leaving due
the sum of $2800, together with and in addition to the interest on $2000, at the rate of six per cent per annum, from
April, 1894.
The matter in dispute, therefore, is not merely $2000 money
loaned, together with the interest on that sum, but the claim
on the part of the complainant is for the payment of the
principal sum above stated, which exceeds the sum of $2000,
exclusive of interest and costs. All these facts are admitted
by the demurrer.
The nature of this association is not very clearly set forth
in the bill, but it is probably not materially different from
those which have been incorporated to a great extent in many
different States, and referred to generally in Endlich in his
work on Building Associations.
A question somewhat similar to this has been decided in
Richard v. Southwestern Building & Loan Association, 21
S. R. 643, (49 La. Ann.,) where it was held that a loan of this
nature was not to be treated as usurious, for the reason that
the payments supposed to constitute the usury were by the
terms of the contract made upon the, stock debt and not upon
the loan. To the same effect is Equitable Building & Loan
Association v. Vance, 27 S. E. Rep. 274, Supreme Court of
South Carolina, -May, 1897.
The stock is not, as is claimed by counsel for appellee, a
mere fiction. It is issued, it is to be assumed on this appeal,
in accordance with the provisions of the charter of the complainant, and the owners of it are entitled to share in the
profits of the corporation, which it is supposed it will be
enabled to make during its existence, and his position of
shareholder is entirely separate from his position of borrower
from the company.
Without determining any of these questions on the merits,
we think the matter in dispute was within the jurisdiction
of the Circuit Court, and we therefore reverse the judgment

WILLIAMS v. PAINE.
Statement of the Case.

dismissing the bill, and remand the case to the Circuit Court
with directions to take such further proceedings as may be in
conformity with this opinion.

WILLIAMS v. PAINE.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUIdEIA.
No. 114. Argued November 29, 30, 189.-Decided January 10, 1897.
Under the laws of Maryland, which were in force in the District of Columblain 1859, it was competent for a married woman, outside of the District,
to execute, with her husband, a power of attorney to convey her lands
therein, which, when acknowledged by her according to the statute relating to the acknowledgment by married women of deeds conveying
their real property in the District, thereby became a valid and sufficient
instrument to authorize the conveyance by attorney; and the first
section of the act of March 3, 1865, c. 110, 13 Stat. 531, contains a clear
legislative recognition of the right to execute such power.
Such a power of attorney, executed in one of the Northern States before
the civil war by a married woman then residing there, was not revoked
by the fact that when that war broke out she and her husband removed
to the Southern States, where he entered the Confederate service, and
where she resided to the close of the war.
When the purchase money for land sold under such a power is received by
the principal, to permit her heirs after her death to repudiate the transaction, on the ground that the power of attorney had been revoked by
the war, would be in conflict with every principle of equity and fair
dealing.
A majority of the court think that the deed made under the power of attorney which is in controversy in this suit, and which is printed at length
In the Statement of the Case, below, was in the nature of a conveyance
of the legal title, though defectively executed, and that it came within
the provisions of the act of March 3, 1865, and its defective execution
was thereby cured.
By this disposition of the whole case upon the merits the court is not to be
considered as deciding that parties situated as the plaintiffs were in this
case, out of possession, can maintain an action for partition.

Tim appellants herein brought this suit in the Supreme
Court of the District of Columbia for the purpose of obtaining

