DULL v. BLACKUMAN.
Syllabus.

DULL v. BLACKMAN.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF IOWA.
No.192. Argued January 18, 19, 1598.-Decided February 21,1598.

On June 25, 1889, plaintiff in error, Daniel Dull, being the owner of the
tract of laud in controversy, conveyed the same by warranty deed executed by himself and wife to John E. Blackman. Blackman, on August 2,
1889, made a deed of the same land to George F. Wright as security
for moneys to be advanced by Wright. On the 29th of February, 1892,
Blackman commenced this suit in the District Court of Pottawattamie
County, Iowa, to compel a reconveyance by Wright on the ground of his
failure to advance any money. Prior thereto, and on January 30, 1892,
Blackman had executed a deed of the land to Edward Phelan, which conveyance was at first conditional but by agreement signed by the parties
on September 15, 1892, was made absolute. On the 17th of September,
1892, Phelan filed his petition of intervention, setting forth his rights
in the matter under the deed of January 30 and the agreement of September 15, and also making plaintiffs in error and others defendants,,
alleging that they claimed certain interests inthe property, and praying
a decree quieting his title as against all. On January 24, 1893, plaintiff's
counsel withdrew his appearance for Blackman, and, upon his application, was allowed to prosecute the action in the name of Blackman for
and in behalf of Phelan, the intervenor. On February 2, 1893, the plaintiffs in error appeared in the suit and filed an answer denying all the
allegations in plaintiff's petition and in the petition of intervention. On
the 15th of that month they filed an amended answer and a cross petition, in which they set up that Blackman had obtained his deed from
them by certain false representations, and that a suit was pending in the
Supreme Court of the State of New York, in which Daniel Dull was
plaintiff, and Blackman, Wright, Phelan and others were defendants, in
which the same issues were made and the same relief sought as in the
case at bar. On May 29 they filed an amendment to their answer and
cross petition setting forth that the case pending in the Supreme Court
of New York had gone to decree, and attached a copy of that decree.
The suit in the Supreme Court of the State of New York was commenced
on the 3d of November, 1892. Blackman was served personally within
the limits of that State, but the other defendants therein, Wright,
Phelan and Duffle their counsel, were served only by delivering to them
in Omaha, Nebraska, a copy of the complaint and summons. No appearance was made by them, notwithstanding which the decree was entered
against them as against Blackman, and was a decree establishing the
title of Daniel Dull, setting aside the deed made by him and his wife to
Blackman, and enjoining the several defendants from further prosecut-

241

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

ing the action in the Iowa court. After certain other pleadings and
amendments thereto had been made the case in the District Court of
Pottawattamie County, Iowa, came on for hearing, and upon the testimony that court entered a decree quieting Phelan's title to the land as
against any and all other parties to the suit, subject, however, to certain
mortgage interests which were recognized and protected, but which are
not in any way pertinent to this controversy between Dull and wife and
the defendants in error. On appeal to the Supreme Court of the State
such decree was, on January 21, 1896, affirmed. Held, that the decree
of the Supreme Court of Iowa was right, and that it should be affirmed.

THE facts in this case are as follows: On June 25, 1889,
plaintiff in error, Daniel Dull, being the owner of the tract of
land in controversy, conveyed the same by warranty deed
executed by himself and wife to John E. Blackman. Blackman, on August 2, 1889, made a deed of the same land to
George F. Wright as security for moneys to be advanced by
Wright. On the 29th of February, 1892, Blackman commenced this suit in the District Court of Pottawattamie
County, Iowa, to compel a reconveyance by Wright on the
ground of his failure to advance any money. Prior thereto,
and on January 30, 1892, Blackman had executed a deed of
the land to Edward Phelan, which conveyance was at first
conditional but by agreement signed by the parties on September 15, 1892, was made absolute. On the 1'7th of September, 1892, Phelan filed his petition of intervention, setting
forth his rights in the matter under the deed of January 30
and the agreement of September 15, and also making plaintiffs
in error and others defendants, alleging that they claimed
certain interests in the property, and praying a decree quieting his title as against all. On January 24, 1893, plaintiff's
counsel withdrew his appearance for Blackman, and, upon his
application, was allowed to prosecute the action in the name
of Blackman for and in behalf of Phelan, the intervenor. On
February 2, 1893, the plaintiffs in error appeared in the suit
and filed an answer denying all the allegations in plaintiff's
petition and in the petition of intervention. On the 15th of
that month they filed an amended answer and a cross petition,
in which they set up that Blackman had obtained his deed
from them by certain false representations, and that a suit

DULL v. BLACKifAN.
Opinion of the Court.

was pending in the Supreme Court of the State of New York,
in which Daniel Dull was plaintiff, and Blackman, Wright,
Phelan and others were defendants, in which the same issues
were made and the same relief sought as in the case at bar.
On May 29 they filed an amendment to their answer and cross
petition setting forth that the case pending in the Supreme
Court of New York had gone to decree, and attached a copy
of that decree. The suit in the Supreme Court of the State
of New York was commenced on the 3d of November, 1892.
Blackman was served personally within the limits of that
State, but the other defendants therein, Wright, Phelan and
Duffie their counsel, were served only by delivering to them
in Omaha, Nebraska, a copy of the complaint and summons.
No appearance was made by them. Notwithstanding which
the decree was entered against them as against Blackman, and
was a decree establishing the title of Daniel Dull, setting aside
the deed made by him and his wife to Blackman, and enjoining the several defendants from further prosecuting the action
in the Iowa court. After certain other pleadings and amendments thereto had been made the case in the District Court of
Pottawattamie County, Iowa, came on for hearing, and upon
the testimony that court entered a decree quieting Phelan's
title to the land as against any and all other parties to the
suit, subject, however, to certain mortgage interests which
were recognized and protected, but which are not in any way
pertinent to this controversy between Dull and wife and the
defendants in error. On appeal to the Supreme Court of the
State such decree was, on January 21, 1896, affirmed, from
which judgment of affirmance plaintiffs in error have brought
the case here.
.2Wr". Alred G. Saford and Mr. Isaac N7. Mickinger for
plaintiffs in error.

Mi'. Oinri F. Hfibbard was on their brief.

-Mr. Winjfeld S. Strawn for defendants in error.
Mn. JusTicn, BREWER, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

The contention of the plaintiffs in error, and in it is the
only question of a Federal nature presented by the record, is
that the courts in Iowa did not give that full faith and credit
to the decree rendered in the Supreme Court of the State of
New York to which under the Constitution of the United
States it was entitled. From the foregoing statement of facts
it appears clearly that although the suit in the Iowa court was
originally commenced by Blackman, and though his name was,
under the practice prevailing in Iowa, never dropped from the
title of the case, it was by reason of the intervention of
Phelan and the orders of the court simply prosecuted in his
name for the benefit of Phelan, the intervenor; that this
intervention of Phelan, and his petition in support thereof,
making the plaintiffs in error and others defendants thereto,
was filed on the 17th of September, 1892, nearly two months
before the commencement of the suit in New York. It also
appears that while Blackman, Phelan, Wright and others
were named as parties defendant to the suit in New York,
Blackman was the only one served within the territorial jurisdiction, and the only one appearing in that court. The other
defendants were attempted to be brought in by service of
summons in the State of Nebraska, and never entered any
appearance in the suit. It is true the decree in the Supreme
Court of the State of New York was entered before the trial
of this case in the District Court of Iowa, and the record of
the proceedings in the New York court was in evidence at the
trial in the Iowa court. It further appears from the findings
of fact made by the trial court in Iowa, and sustained by the
Supreme Court of that State, that the entire right and title
had passed from Blackman to Phelan in September, 1892,
nearly two months before the commencement of the suit in
New York.
Upon these facts we remark that as the land, the subjectmatter of this controversy, was situate in Iowa, litigation in
respect to its title belonged properly to the courts within that
State, Ellenwood v. Marietta Chair Co., 158 IT. S. 105, 107,
although if all the parties interested in the land were brought
personally before a court of another State, its decree would be

DULL v. BLACKMAN.
Opinion of the Court.

conclusive upon them and thus in effect determine the title.
The suit in New York was one purely in personam. Any

decree therein bound simply the parties before the court
and their privies, and did not operate directly upon th6 lands.
As said by this court in Carpenter v. Strange, 141 U. S.
87, 105:
"The real estate was situated in Tennessee and governed by
the law of its situs, and while by means of its power over the
person of a party a court of equity may in a proper case compel him to act in relation to property not within its jurisdiction, its decree does not operate directly upon the property
nor affect the title, but is made effectual through the coercion
of the defendant, as, for instance, by directing a deed to be
executed or cancelled by or on behalf of the party. The court
has no 'inherent power, by the mere force of its decree, to
annul a deed or to establish a title.'"
In that suit the only party defendant subject to the jurisdiction of the court was Blackman. The other parties were not
served with process within the limits of the State of New
York and never entered any appearance in the case. The
service attempted to be made by delivering a copy of the summons to them in the State of Nebraska was ineffectual to bring
them within the jurisdiction of that court.
"Where the entire object of the action is to determine the
personal rights and obligations of the defendants, that is;
where the suit is merely in personam, constructive service in
this form upon a nonresident is ineffectual for any purpose.
Process from the tribunals of one State cannot run into another State, and summon parties there domiciled to leave its
territory and respond to proceedings against them. Publication of process or notice within the State where the tribunal
sits cannot create any greater obligation upon the nonresident
to appear. Process sent to him out of the State, and process
published within it, are equally unavailing in proceedings to
establish his personal liability. Pennoyer v. Yef, 95 U. S.
714, 727.
"Such a decree, being inpersonammerely, can only be supported, against a person who is not a citizen or resident of the

OCTOBER TERAT, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

State in which it is rendered, by actual service upon him within
its jurisdiction." Hart v. Sanson, 110 U. S. 151, 155.
We remark again that while a judgment or decree binds not
merely the party or parties subject to the jurisdiction of the
court but also those in privity with them, yet that rule does
not avail the plaintiffs in error, for Phelan acquired his rights
prior to the institution of the suit in New York and was therefore not privy to that judgment.
"It is well understood, though not usually stated in express
terms in works upon the subject, that no one is privy to a
judgment whose succession to the rights of property thereby
affected, occurred previously to the institution of the suit. A
tenant in possession prior to the commencement of an action
of ejectment cannot therefore be lawfully dispossessed by the
judgment unless made a party to the suit. . . . No grantee
can be bound by any judgment in an action commenced against
his grantor subsequent to the grant, otherwise a man having
no interest in property could defeat the estate of the true
owner. The foreclosure of a mortgage, or of any other lien, is
wholly inoperative upon the rights of any person not a party
to the suit, whether such person is a grantee, judgment creditor, attachment creditor, or other lienholder." Freeman on
Judgments, (1st ed.,) ยง 162.
As Phelan was not brought within the jurisdiction of the
New York court, and as the suit in that court was instituted
nearly two months after he had acquired full title to the real
estate, the decree of that court did not bind him as a party,
nor bind him as in privity with Blackman, his grantor. The
Supreme Court of Iowa did not err in so holding.
The decree is
4fflrmed.

