OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Syllabus.

petition, and the question of the validity of the action of the
board of equalization in raising the assessed values throughout the Territory was put by the Su~reme'Oourt, without discussion, on its previous decision in the case of Wallace v. Bullen.
We are also informed by the briefs that the case just mentioned
is now pending before the Supreme Court on an order for a
rehearing. Whether the facts pertaining to the action of the
board of equalization in this particular were the same in
Gray v. Stiles as those in this case, we cannot say from this
record.
In such circumstances, we think it would be premature for
this court to determine the question..
As, for the reasons before given, the judgment of the
Supreme Court must be reversed, that court will have an
opportunity to deal with this question, if it think fit, upon a
rehearing.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Oklahoma is accordingly reversed,'and the cause is remanded with directions
to proceed in conformity with this opinion.

BAKER v. GRICE.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 836.

Argued January 26, 198.-Decided February 21, 1698.

While Circuit Courts of the United States have jurisdiction, under the circumstances set forth in the statement of the case (below), to issue a
writ of habeas corpus, yet those courts ought not to exercise that jurisdiction, by the discharge of a prisoner, unless in cases of peculiar
urgency, but should leave the prisoner to be dealt with by the courts
of the State; and even after a final determination of the case by those
courts should ordinarily leave the prisoner to his remedy by writ of error
from this court.
Upon the facts appearing in this case no sufficient case was made out for
the exercise of the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court by the issue of a

BAKER v. GRICE.
Statement of the Case.
writ of habeas corpus to take the prisoner out of the custody of the
state court.
It is the rule of courts, both state and Federal, not to decide constitutional
questions until the necessity for such decision arises in the record before
the court.

Tuis appeal is from an order of the United States Circuit
Court for the Northern District of Texas, made upon a return
to a writ of habeas corpus, issued by that court to inquire into
the cause for the detention of the petitioner, William Grice,
who, it was alleged, was unlawfully restrained of his liberty
by and held in the custody of J. W. Baker, the sheriff of
:McLennan County, Texas. After a hearing, the Circuit
Court, on the 22d of February, 1897, discharged the petitioner. 79 Fed. Rep. 627.
The petition for the writ was filed on the 9th of December,
1896, and therein the petitioner, among other things, made
the following allegations: That he was unlawfully restrained
of his liberty by the sheriff of M cLennan County, Texas, having been surrendered by his sureties under a recognizance
which he had theretofore given; that he was detained by the
sheriff under an indictment preferred against him and other
citizens of the United States on the 21st of November, 1894.
The indictment charged that William Grice, E. T. Hathaway
and several others, named in the indictment, unlawfully combined and engaged among themselves and with others, who
were unknown to the grand jury, in a conspiracy against
trade, and that they had created a trust by a combination of
their capital, skill and acts for the purpose of creating and
carrying out restrictions in trade. The indictment was based
upon an act passed by the legislature of Texas on -the 30th of
Mlarch, 1889, which is generally known and described as the
anti-trust act of that State. When the indictment was presented, the defendants (including the petitioner herein) were
arrested and brought before the proper court and entered into
a recognizance conditioned for their appearance in court from
day to day and term to term to answer the indictment. On
the 2d of December, 1895, the case was regularly called, and
the defendants, pursuant to the provisions of the code of crim-

OCTOBER TERM-, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

inal procedure of the State of Texas, announced a severance,
and thereupon E. T. Hathaway, one of the defendants named
in the indictment, was placed on trial to answer the charges
contained therein. Before proceeding to trial on the merits,
he in effect demurred to the indictment on the ground, among
others, that the above named act of the State of Texas was
a violation of the Federal Constitution, for reasons which he
stated. The demurrer was overruled and the trial of the
cause was then proceeded with, and on the 12th of December, 1895, a verdict of guilty as charged in the indictment was
rendered, and the jury assessed defendant's punishment at
a fine of $50. Hathaway duly took proceedings for the purpose of obtaining a review by the Court of Criminal Appeals
of the State of Texas of the various matters raised by the
demurrer and in the course of his trial.
Under the law of Texas, one who is convicted of a felony,
although the punishment imposed is only a fine, is still necessarily subjected to confinement in the jail pending the determination of any appehl which he may take, and under that
provision the defendant Hathaway was subjected to confinement in jail pending the determination of his appeal.
It was argued in the Court of Criminal Appeals on the 29th
day of January, 1896, and was not decided until the 24th day
of June, 1896, leaving the defendant Hathaway in the meantime incarcerated in the McLennan County jail. On the last
mentioned day the Court of Criminal Appeals decided the
case, but did not pass upon the constitutionality of the act
under which the indictment was framed, although that question had been raised in the court below and presented to the
appellate court on the argument of the appeal. The court
decided the appeal upon another ground, which the petitioner
herein calls a technical ground of pleading, the court holding that because the indictment presented failed to charge
Hathaway with knowingly carrying out as agent the stipulations, purposes, prices, etc., under the alleged conspiracy,
the admission of evidence to that effect over the objection
of the defendant was unwarranted in law, and the conviction was therefore invalid. The appellate court there-

BAKER v. GRICE.
Statement of the Case.

upon reversed the judgment and remanded the cause for a trial
de novo.
Since the rendition of this judgment two terms of the
criminal court in the proper county have been held, one of
which was drawing near its close at the time that the petitioner filed his petition, December 9, 1896, and the petitioner
then makes this allegation: that "While this petitioner, together with his co-defendants who have been arrested dnd placed
in recognizance, have stood ready and anxious for trial upon
said indictment, yet said case has not even been called by the
court for trial, nor has said cause been set. for trial, but the
same has been permitted to remain upon the docket of said
court, subjecting this petitioner and his co-defendants not
only to the shame and contumely of an indictment for felony,
but denying to him and his co-defendants the right to be
heard in his defence in said court as a citizen of the United
States, and whereby this petitioner, as well as his co-defendants, are without remedy in the state courts of Texas for the
assertion and vindication of their rights under the Constitution
of the United States." It is then shown in the petition that
on the 24th of November, 1896, Hathaway, one of his co-defendants, procured from the Circuit Court of the United
States a writ of habeas cor2pus, requiring the sheriff of 11cLennan County, who then had him in custody, to produce the
body of said Hathaway, and that the writ was served upon
the sheriff, who made return that he held his prisoner under
the indictment above mentioned.
A hearing before the court was then set for the 7th of
Pec.mber, 1896, and notice thereof was given to the sheriff
and prosecuting officers of the county of McLennan, advising
them of the proceedings and of the time when the matter
would be inquired into. On the 7th of December, the state
court dismissed the indictment and prosecution as against
Hathaway, leaving the same to stand unimpaired as to the
petitioner herein and his co-defendants. This action on the
part of the state court, the petitioner charges, was for the purpose of defeating the jurisdiction of the United States court
upon the writ of habeas corpus, which had then been issued,

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

and to thereby prevent that court from passing upon the constitutional rights of said Hathaway. After this discharge by
the state court, the sheriff made return, setting up that fact
and that he claimed no further right or custody over the

relator.
The petitioner then avers that the act in question violates
the Constitution of the United States for the reasons which
he names, and that by reason of the premises "he is without
remedy for the assertion and vindication of his rights as a
citizen of the United States under the Constitution thereof ;
that he has stood under indictment for felony, charged with
the violation of said alleged statute of the State of Texas,
approved March 30, 1889, for the period of two years without
being afforded an opportunity by the state courts of Texas
for the assertion of his rights, as aforesaid, as a citizen of the
United States. Your petitioner believes, and so avers, that
it is the purpose and intent of the state authorities of the
State of Texas to prevent, if possible, any appeal by this
petitioner to the courts of the United States for the vindication of his rights as aforesaid as a citizen of the United States.
In view of the premises herein recited and without the interposition of this honorable court for his due protection and the
due conservation of his rights, as a citizen of the United States,
he is practically remediless by an appeal in regular course or
otherwise." The petitioner, therefore, asked for a writ of
habeas corpus in order that he might be discharged from
custody.
The writ having been duly served, the sheriff made return
showing that he held the petitioner by virtue of a writ issued
upon the indictment, and he further alleged that the authorities had been anxious and ready to accord all the defendants
under the indictment that speedy trial which they were guaranteed under the constitution and the laws of the State of
Texas; that the delay had come in great part from the action
of the defendants; that at the first term of court after the
indictment was presented, the case was set down for trial on
the 14th of March, and was thereafter continued by agreement
between the State and the defendants; that at the succeeding

r

BAKER v. GRICE.
Statement of the Case.

September term the case was set down for trial on October 4,
and on that day it was postponed upon motion of the defendants and set down for the iNovember term, to be tried on the
2d of December, 1895, and that when the cause was called on
that day the defendants, including the petitioner, claimed a
severance, to which they were entitled under the laws of
Texas, and forced the State to try Hathaway alone, thereby
avoiding and defeating a trial of the petitioner herein. The
sheriff further returned that the purpose of the petitioner and
his co-defendants was, as he believed, to defeat the jurisdiction
of the courts of Texas in the administration of its laws; and
that the relator and his co-defendants had agreed among themselves to have their several sureties surrender them into the
custody of the sheriff, and that by their own acts and at their
own request and by their own procurement the sureties of
petitioner and his co-defendants did surrender them, and on
the day of the surrender and contemporaneously with it a writ
of habeas corpus from the Circuit Court was served upon the
sheriff, commanding him to produce before the court instanter
the body of petitioner.
Attached to the return were the affidavits of the sureties of
the petitioner, in which they said in substance that the petitioner wanted them to surrender him to the sheriff on the day
named, and that by his request they went to the lawyer's office
and met the petitioner and accompanied him to the office of
the sheriff, where they surrendered him to the sheriff.
The petitioner filed a replication which was in substance an
admission of the truth of many of the allegations made in the
return and the accompanying affidavits, but denied their
materiality, and claimed that they furnished no answer to the
allegations of the p6titioner, as contained in his petition. The
relator did deny that he had conspired or confederated for the
purpose "of defeating the jurisdiction of the courts of Texas or
the administration of its laws; on the contrary, he alleged that
for two years he and his co-defendants had submitted to the
jurisdiction of the courts of Texas for the 'purpose of trial,
and that when it became evident to the petitioner and his
co-defendants that a trial was not to be had except at some
voL. cLxIx-19

OCTOBER TERI, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

indefinite period in the future, if ever, then the petitioner "as
a citizen of the United States proceeded to exercise his rights
as such citizen and to call upon the courts of the United
States to vindicate his rights as he was entitled under the
Constitution and laws of the United States, and not for the
purpose of defeating the jurisdiction of said courts of Texas,
but for the purposes as indicated."
After hearing the parties, the Circuit Court decided that
a proper case had been made out for its interference by virtue
of the writ of habeas corpus, and thereupon held that the
statute of the State of Texas called the anti-trust law was a
violation of the Constitution of the United States, and, consequently, void. The court, therefore, discharged the petitioner,
and from that order this appeal has been taken.
-Mr.M. -ff. Crane for appellant.
Mr. George Clarik and Mr. Joseph H. Clioate for appellees.
M. John D. Johnson and Mr. D. C. Bolinger were on Mr.
Clark's brief. Mr. S. C. T. Dodd was on Mr. Choates brief.
MR.

JUSTicE

PEcxAm,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The court below had jurisdiction to issue the writ and fo
decide the questions which were argued before it. Exparte
Royall, 117 U. S. 24:1; Whitten v. Tomlinson, 160 U. S. 231.
In the latter case most of the prior authorities are mentioned.
From these cases it clearly appears, as the settled and proper
procedure, that while Circuit Courts of the United States have
jurisdiction, under the circumstances set forth in the foregoing
statement, to issue the writ of habeas co?:pus, yet those courts
ought not to exercise that jurisdiction by the discharge of a
prisoner unless in cases of peculiar urgency, and that instead
of discharging they will leave the prisoner to be dealt i ith
by the courts of the State; that after a final determination
of the case by the state court, the Federal courts will even
then generally leave the petitioner to his remedy by writ of

BAKER v. GRICE.
Opinion of the Court.

error from this court. The reason for this course is apparent.
It is an exceedingly delicate jurisdiction given to the Federal
courts by which a person under an indictment in a state court
and subject to its laws may, by the decision of a single judge of
the Federal court, upon a writ of habeas corpus, be taken out
of the custody of the officers of the State and finally discharged
therefrom, and thus a trial by the state courts of an indict"ment found under the laws of a State be finally prevented.
Cases have occurred of so exceptional a nature that this course
has been pursued. Such are the cases -In re Loney, 134 U. S.
372, and In re .Neagle, 135 U. S. 1, but the reasons for the
interference of the Federal court in each of those cases were
extraordinary, and presented what this court regarded as such
exceptional facts as to justify the interference of the Federal
tribunal. Unless this case be of such an exceptional nature,
we ought not to encourage the interference of the Federal
court below with the regular course of justice in the state
court.
The ground for the discharge of the petitioner in this case,
as given by the court below, was because of the opinion of
that court that the anti-trust law of the State of Texas violated
the Constitution of the United States, and was therefore void.
The question of the validity of that act of course exists whether
the case be in the state court or a hearing transferred to the
Federal court by virtue of the writ of habeas corpus. It is the
duty of the state court, as much as it is that of the Federal
courts, when the question of the validity of a state statute is
necessarily involved as being in alleged violation of any provision of the Federal Constitution, to decide that question, and
to hold the law void if it violate that instrument. But the
state court is not bound to decide the constitutional question
when there are other grounds for reversing a conviction under
the law, upon pain of having its omission furnish a ground for
Federal interference.
The special circumstances creating what the court below
regarded as a necessity for its immediate action, and which
made the case one of urgency, are stated in the opinion of the \
court rendered in discharging the prisoner.

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

The first circumstance stated is that the Court of Criminal
Appeals did not decide, when it had the opportunity, the question of the constitutionality of the act in question, and that

that court, while deciding it was unnecessary to pass upon the
constitutional questions raised, "referred favorably to the
decisions of the Supreme Court of the State in which the antitrust law had been sustained in this regard." It is matter of
common occurrence- indeed, it is almost the undeviating rule
of the courts, both state and Federal - not to decide consti tutional questions until the necessity for such decision arises in
the record before the court. This court has followed that
practice from the foundation of the Government, and we can see
no reason for just criticism upon the action of the state court
in refusing to decide the question of the constitutionality of
this act, when, at the same time, it held in substance that
there was no evidence upon which to sustain the conviction of
the defendant upon the indictment then before it, and that
therefore the judgment should be reversed. In granting a
new trial, it cannot properly be urged that the court failed to
fulfil its duty towards the defendant in any degree whatever,
because it did not decide the constitutional question as desired
by him. The decision of the case was upon such a ground
that the probability was that no conviction of the defendant
could thereafter be had under that indictment. When the
judgment of conviction was reversed the defendant Hathaway
gave bail, and remained at large until the proceedings for his
discharge were taken some six months after the judgment of
reversal had been given.
Criticism is also made upon the fact that the state court did
not discharge Hathaway after the decision upon his appeal
until the Circuit Court issued the writ of habeas coipus some
six months thereafter. It does not appear that Hathaway had
applied to have his case tried, nor to be discharged from the
indictment by reason of the decision granting him a new trial.
However that may be, Hathaway's case was finished by his
actual discharge, and it has no further bearing upon the action
of the state court in this case.
It is also said that since the trial of Hathaway and the

BAKER v. GRICE.
Opinion of the Court.

granting of a new trial to him the- case of the petitioner has
not been called for trial, and that two terms of court since the
granting of a new trial to Hathaway had come and the second
one was about expiring at the time when the petitioner filed
his petition in the Circuit Court for this writ. Here again
there is no allegation and no proof that any attempt had been
made on the part of this petitioner to obtain a trial in the
state court or that he had been refused such trial by that court
upon any application which he made. It is the simple case of
a failure to call the indictment for trial, the petitioner being in
the meantime on bail and making no effort to obtain a trial
and evincing no desire by way of a demand that a trial in his
case should be had.
We do not say that a refusal to try a person who is on bail
can furnish any foundation for a resort to the Federal courts,
even in cases in which a trial may involve Federal questions,
but in this case no refusal is shown. A mere omission to
move the case for trial (the party being on bail) is all that
is set up, coupled with the assertion that defendant was eager
and anxious for trial, but showing no action whatever on his
part which might render such anxiety and eagerness known
to the state authorities.
It was also stated that the petitioner could expect little
better results on a trial of his case in the state court than
obtained upon the trial in the Rat/away case. We think this
statement is entirely without proof or even probability. The
petitioner was indicted as one of several defendants under the
same statute, and it is claimed that those of them mentioned
in the indictment who resided in Texas were situated similarly
to Hathaway. The probability, therefore, would be exceedingly strong that if the petitioner were tried upon the indictment found against him he would have to be acquitted by
direction of the court for lack of evidence, under the decision
of the Criminal Court of Appeals in Hathaway's case.
We are of opinion that neither one of the grounds taken
by the court below nor all combined furnish any reason for
the discharge of petitioner upon the writ issued by that court.
The surrender of the petitioner by his bail at his request and

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

his consequent imprisonment furnishes in itself no ground of
urgency for the interference of a Federal court. The imprisonment is entirely voluntary, and while the surrender by his
bondsmen may be good for the purpose of avoiding any technical objection to the issuing of the writ founded upon the fact
that the petitioner was on bail, yet the fact of imprisonment
under such circumstances adds nothing to the strength of his
case as calling for the interposition of the Federal court. This
whole case is clearly nothing but an attempt to obtain the
interference of a court of the United States when no extraordinary or peculiar circumstances exist in favor of such
interference.
Upon the facts appearing herein, we think no sufficient case
was made out for the exercise of the jurisdiction of the Circuit
Court. We come to this decision irrespective of the question
of the validity of the state statute and without passing upon
the same or expressing any opinion in regard thereto.
If this application had been made subsequently to a trialof the
petitioner in the state court and his conviction upon such trial
under a holding by that court that the law was constitutional,
and where an appeal from such judgment of conviction merely
imposing a fine could not be had, excepting upon the condition
of the defendant's imprisonment until the hearing and decision
of the appeal, a different question would be presented and one
which is not decided in this case, and upon which we do not
now express any opinion.
The order of the Circuit Courtfor the Northern District of
Texas must be reversed,and the case remanded to that court
with instructions to set aside the order discharging the
.prisoner,and to enter an order remanding him to the
custody of the sherif.

In BAR v. AUSTIN-, No. 337; BAKER v. HAwKI-s, No. 338;
and BAKER v. FixLEY, No. 339, involving the same question and
argued with this case, the same order is made.

