RITTER v. MUTUAL LIFE INSURA_NOE CO.

139

Syllabus.

RITTER v. MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY
OF NEW YORK.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE THIRD,
CIRCUIT.
Ho. 142. Argued December 3, 6, 169T.-Decided January 1T, 1898.
This was an action on six policies of insurance, all alike (except as to the!
amount of insurance), and in the following form: "In consideration of
the application for this policy, which is hereby made a part of this contract, the Mlutual Life Insurance Company of New York promises to pay
at its home office in the city of New York, unto William M. Runk, of
Philadelphia, in the county of Philadelphia, State of Pennsylvania, his
executors, administrators or assigns, twenty thousand dollars, upon acceptance of satisfactory proofs at its home office of the death of the said
William M. Runk during the continuance of this policy, upon the following condition, and subject to the provisions, requirements and benefits.
stated on the back of this policy, which are hereby referred to and madepart hereof. The annual premium of seven hundred and eighty-two dollars shall be paid in advance on the delivery of this policy, and thereafter
to the company, at its home office in the city of New York, on the tenth
day of November in every year during the continuance of this contract,
In witness whereof," etc. The principal defence was that the assured,
when in sound mind, deliberately and intentionally took his own life,
whereby the event insured against-his death- was precipitated. One
of the issues was the sanity or insanity of the assured when he committed,
self-destruction. Held,
(1) If the assured understood what he was doing, and the consequences.
of his act or acts, to himself as well as to others-in other
words, if he understood, as a man of sound mind would, the consequences to follow from his contemplated suicide, to himself, his.
character, his family and others, and was able to comprehend thewrongfulness of what he was about to do, as a sane man would,
then he is to be regarded as sane;
(2) In the case of fire insurance it is well settled that although a policy,
in the usual form, indemnifying against loss by fire, may cover a
loss attributable merely to the negligence or carelessness of the
insured, unaffected by fraud or design, it will not cover a destruction of the property by the wilful act of the assured himself in
setting fire to it, not for the purpose of avoiding a peril of a worse
kind but with the intention of simply effecting its destruction;
(3) Much more should it be helo that it is not contemplated by a policy
taken out by the person whose life is insured and stipulating for

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.
the payment of a named sum to himself, his executors, administrators or assigns, that the company should be liable, if his death
was intentionally caused by himself when in sound mind. When
the policy is silent as to suicide, it is to be taken that the subject
of the insurance, that is, the life of the assured, shall not be intentionally and directly, with whatever motive, destroyed by him
when in sound mind. To hold otherwise is to say that the occurrence of the event upon the happening of which the company
undertook to pay, was intended to be left to his option. That
view is against the very essence of the contract;
(4) A contract, the tendency of which is to endanger the public interests
or injuriously affect the public good, or which is subversive of
sound morality, ought never to receive the sanction of a court of
justice or be made the foundation of its judgment;
(5) If, therefore, a policy -taken out by the person whose life is insured, and in which the sum named is made payable to himself,
his executors, administrators or assigns-expressly provided for
the payment of the sum stipulated when or if the assured, in sound
mind, took his own life, the contract, even if not prohibited by
statute, would be held to be against public policy, in that it tempted
or encouraged the assured to commit suicide in order to make provision for those dependent upon him, or to whom he was indebted.
The case is not different in principle, if the policy be silent as to
suicide, and the event insured, the death of the assured, is brought
about by his wilful, deliberate act when in sound mind.

TEE case is stated in the opinion.
-Mr. Richard C. Dale and .Mr. George Tucker Bispham, for
plaintiff in error. Mr. John famptoi Barnes was on their
brief.
.3r.John G. Johnson for defendant in error. IMr. Charles
P. Sherman and Mr. Edward Lyman Short were on his brief.
Mip..

JusTioE HARLAN

delivered the opinion of the court.

This action was brought against the Mutual Life Insurance
Company of New York on six policies of life insurance, each
bearing date November 10, 1891, one for $20,000, one for
$15,000, and four for $10,000 each. There-was a verdict in
its favor, upon which judgment was entered, and that judgment was affirmed in the Circuit Court of Appeals. 28 U. S.
App. 612.

RITTER v. MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE CO.

141

Opinion of the Court.

The policies were all alike except as to the amount of insurance, and were in the following form:
"In consideration of the application for this policy, which
is hereby made a part of this contract, the Mutual Life Insurance Oompany of New York promises to pay at its home office
in the city of New York, unto William M. Runk, of Philadelphia, in the county of Philadelphia, State of Pennsylvania, his
executors, administrators or assigns, twenty thousand dollars,
upon acceptance of satisfactory proofs at its home office of the
death of the said William M. Runk during the continuance of
this policy, upon the following condition, and subject to the provisions, requirements and benefits stated on the back of this
policy, which are hereby referred to and made part hereof.
The annual premium of seven hundred and eighty-two dollars
shall be paid in advance on the delivery of this policy, and
thereafter to the company, at its home office in the city of
New York, on the tenth day of November in every year during the continuance of this contract. In witness whereof,"
etc. The "provisions, requirements and benefits" thus made
part of the policy will be referred to hereafter.
The assured died October 5, 1892, all premiums falling
due previous to his death having been paid. It is not disputed that he took his own life.
In the affidavit of defence filed by the insurance company,
it is stated that at or about the time of the execution of the
policies in suit, Rluik held policies upon his life to the extent
of $315,000 issued to him by other companies; that during the
year 1892 lie effected additional insurance to a considerable
amount, the total amount at or about the time of his death
being $500,000; that prior to taking the additional insurance
of $200,000, he was indebted in a very large amount by reason
of the improper use of moneys entrusted to him in a fiduciary
and in a quasi-fiduciary capacity; that he was without
resources of his own sufficient to meet the amount of that
indebtedness; that he was confronted with the fear of being
convicted of breach of trust, and was desirous to protect
pecuniarily those whom he had injured; that he deliberately
determined to commit suicide for the purpose of escaping the

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

necessity of meeting those whose confidence had been betrayed, and with the intention, through moneys expected to
.bepaid on his policies of insurance, to liquidate wholly or in
part the debts owing by him; that he deliberately and intentionally took his life, being at the time in sound mind and in
the full possession of his mental faculties; and that his suicide
was not the result of nor occasioned by mental unsoundness,
but was the act of a man mentally and morally able to under-stand all the consequences thereof.
The affidavit of defence also contained the following statements:
"The policies of insurance sued upon contain a reference to
the application therefor, which is made a part of the contract
'of insurance. A copy of this application is hereto attached,
which, it is prayed, may be taken as a part of this affidavit.
Under the advice of counsel the defendant avers that this
.application is a part of said contract, and that the contract of
insurance was a contract made in the State of New York, and
to be interpreted by, and in accordance with, the laws of that
State.
"The policies of insurance sued upon were delivered to the
.said Runk upon the faith of an independent contract entered
into by him, embodied in the said application, to the effect
that if such policies should be granted, he, the said Runk, did,
"'warrant and agree

.

.

.

that I will not die by my own

-act, whether sane or insane, during the said period of two
years' - said period of two years dating from the 6th day of
November, 1891.
"The said Runk did, within the period of two years, commit
-a breach of said contract by killing himself, as has been before
stated, in the way and manner above recited. By reason of
the breach of said contract, and only by reason of such breach,
the policy of insurance matured, and damages occasioned by
-such breach are equivalent in amount to that demanded under
the policies."
Each of the applications for policies signed by the assured
and attached to the affidavit of defence contained the following:

RITTER v. MUTUAL LIFE INSURAN CE CO.

143

Opinion of the Court.

"I hereby warrant and agree
.
.
not to engage in any
-specially hazardous occupation or effiployment during the next
two years following the date of issue of the policy for which
.application is hereby made, and also not to engage in any
military or naval service, in time of war, during the continu.ance of the policy, without first obtaining permission from
this company; I also warrant and agree that I will not die by
my own act, whether sane or insane, during the said period of
two years."
At the trial below the defendant offered in 6vidence Runk's
.application for insurance. This was objected to on the ground
that the application was not attached to the policy, and under
.an act of the General Assembly of Pennsylvania approved
May 11, 1881, could not, for that reason, be considered as
part of the contract, or be admitted in evidence. The defend.ant, by counsel, stated at the time that the paper was not
-offered for the purpose of making it as an "application" part
*of the contract, but to prove that an independent, collateral,
-contemporaneous agreement was entered into by which Runk
stipulated that he would not die by his own act, whether sane
-or insane, during the period of two years. The objection to
this evidence was sustained, Judge Butler, who presided at
the trial in the Circuit Court, observing: "The representation
-or statement or agreement, call it by whatever name you
-choose, is in my estimation a part of the application for insur.ance, and it constitutes a condition on which the policy was
.applied for and obtained, as much so as any representation
-contained in the paper itself, and it is therefore by the statute
-excluded by reason of the fact that a copy was not attached
to the policy. . . . The statute intended that the policy shall
-exhibit on its face, or the policy in connection with whatever
it refers to shall exhibit to the insured the conditions on which
he holds the policy. The object of this would be to limit the
policy of insurance, to qualify it, to giake it available only in
case the party lived up to this contract."
The statute of Pennsylvania to which reference was made
-is in these words: "That all life and fire insurance policies
-upon the lives or property of persons within this Common-

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.
wealth, whether issued by companies organized under the

laws of this State, or by foreign companies doing business
therein, which contain any reference to the application of the

insured or the constitution, by-laws or other rules'of the company, either as forming part of the policy or contract between
the parties thereto, or having any bearing, on said contract,
shall contain, or have attached to said policies, correct copies
of the application, as signed by the applicant and the bylaws referred to; and, unless so attached and accompanying
the policy, no such application, constitution or by-laws shall be
received in evidence, in any controversy between the parties to,
or interested in, the said policy, nor shall such application or
by-laws be considered a part of the policy or contract between
such parties." Laws of Pennsylvania, 1881, iwo. 23, p. 20.
Whether the Circuit Court erred in excluding the application which, by the terms of the contract, constituted the consideration of the company's promise to pay, is a question that
need not be considered. If error was committed in this particular, it was one for the benefit of the plaintiff in the action;
for, if the application had been admitted in evidence as part
of the contract of insurance, the agreement and warranty of
the assured not to die by his own act, whether sane or insane,
within two years from the date of the policy, would have
precluded any judgment against the insurance company.
Ti'avellers' Ins. Co. v. McConkey, 127 U. S. 661, 666. Upon
this writ of error therefore we must assume that the contract
of insurance contained no such agreement or warranty by the
assured, nor any express condition avoiding the policy in case
of suicide. Besides, the defendant does not insist that this
court should determine the rights of the parties upon the basis
that the application of Runk constituted part of the contract
of insurance. It may -be added that we do not wish to be
understood as expressing any opinion upon the question
whether the Circuit Court erred either in its construction of
the Pennsylvania statute of 1881, or in applying that statute
to the policies here in suit.
At the trial in the Circuit Court, the plaintiff submitted the
following points:

RITTER v. MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE CO.

145

Opinion of the Court.

1. The evidence was not sufficient to warrant the jury in
finding that the deceased entered into the contracts of insurance evidenced by the policies sued upon with the intention
of defrauding the company.
2. The evidence was not sufficient to warrant the jury in
finding that the deceased entered into the contracts of insurance with the intention of committing suicide.
3. The evidence upon the part of the defendant did not warrant any inference of fact constituting a defence in law to the
plaintiff's right to recover the amount due upon the policies.
4. The mere fact that the insured committed suicide did
not, standing alone, avoid the policies, there being no condition in them to that effect.
5. If one whose life is insured intentionally kills himself when
his reasoning faculties are so far impaired by insanity that he
is unable to understand the moral character of his act, even if
he does understand its physical nature, consequence and effect,
such self-destruction will not of itself prevent recovery upon
the policies.
The company submitted the following points as the basis of
instructions to the jury
1. There could be no recovery by the estate of a dead man
of the amount of policies of insurance upon his life, if he takes
his own life designedly, whilst of sound mind.
2. If the jury found that :Runk committed suicide when he
was of sound mind, being morally and mentally conscious of
the act he was about to commit, of its consequences, and of
its nature, with the deliberate intent to secure to his estate
and to his creditors, the amount of the policies sued upon,
there could be no recovery.
3. If the jury found that Runk obtained the policies of
insurance sued upon at a time when he was insolvent and am
embezzler, with the intent thereby to secure, in case of his
death, from the defendant, a fund with which to pay those to.
whom he was indebted, and whose property he had embezzled,.
and subsequently committed suicide, whilst of sound mind;
with the deliberate intent to carry out this scheme, there.
could be no recovery.
voL. CLX=-1O

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

4. The defendant was entitled to set off the loss occasioned
by the failure of Runk to keep his agreement not to die by
his own hand within two years of the date thereof ; and the
amount of this loss cannot be less than that of the policies
sued upon.
The court disaffirmed the plaintiff's first, second and third
points without comment. It disaffirmed the plaintiff's fourth
point relating to the effect upon the rights of the assured of
suicide standing alone, and affirmed the defendant's first point
relating to the same matter.
The plaintiff's fifth point was affirmed, the court, however,
accompanying its affirmance of that point with some observations to be presently referred to.
It will be observed that the plaintiff's first and second
points assumed that the evidence was not sufficient to warrant
*afinding that the assured entered into the contracts of insurance with the intention either to defraud the company or to
commit suicide. The court rightly refused to so instruct the
jury. When the last policies were taken out by Runk he was
carrying insurance on his life for an amount large enough to
require annual premiums of about $12,000. His income, so far
,as the record shows, was inadequate to meet such a burden.
And yet, in 1891, he largely increased the insurance on his
life, and added about $8000 to the sum to be paid annually
for premiums. Besides these facts, it appeared that on the
day before his death he avowed that his debts must be paid,
and that they could only be paid with his life. That avowal
was in a letter written to his partner, in which he said that
he had deceived the latter, and could only pay his debts with
his life. That letter concluded: "This -is a sad ending of a
promising life, but I deserve all the punishment I may get,
only I feel my debts must be paid. This sacrifice will do it,
and only this. I was faithful until two years ago. Forgive
,me. Don't publish this." On the same day he wrote to his
aunt, to whom he was indebted in a large sum, saying, among
other things: "Forgive me for the disgrace I bring upon you,
but it is the only way I can pay my indebtedness to you." In
addition, he left for the guidance of his executor a memoran-

RlITTER v. MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE CO.

147

Opinion of the Court.

dum of his business affairs, prepared just beforb his death,
and which tended to show that he was at that time entirely
himself.
In view of these and other facts established by the evidence,
the court did not err in disaffirming the first and second of
plaintiff's points. We may add that, under the charge to
the jury, it became unnecessary for them to inquire whether the
policies were tak.en out with the intention of defrauding the
insurance company or of committing suicide. The court said
to the jury: "What constitutes insanity, in the sense in which
we are using the term, has been described to you, and need
not be repeated. If this man understood the consequences
and effects of what he was doing or contemplating, to himself
and to others, if he understood the wrongfulness of it, as a
sane man would, then he was sane, so far as we have occasion
to consider the subject; otherwise he was not. - Here the
insured committed suicide, and, as the evidence shows, did it
for the purpose, as expressed in his communication to the
executor of his will, as well as in letters written to his aunt
and his partner, of enabling the executor to recover on the
policies, and use the money to pay his obligations. I therefore charge you that if he was in a sane condition of mind at
the time, as I have described, able to understand the moral
character and consequences of his act, his suicide is a defence
to this suit. The only question, therefore, for consideration is
this question of sanity. There is nothing else in the case.
That he committed suicide, and committed it with a view to
the collection of this money from the insurance companies and
having it applied to the payment of his obligations, is not controverted, and not dontrovertible. It is shown by his own
declaration, possibly not verbal, but written. The only question, therefore, is whether or not he was in a sane condition
of mind, or whether his mind was so impaired that he could
not, as I have described, properly comprehend and understand
the character and consequences of the act he was about to
commit. In the absence of evidence on the subject he must
be presumed to have been sane. The presumption of sanity
is not overthrown by the act of committing suicide. Suicide

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

may be used as evidence of insanity, but standing alone it is
not sufficient to establish it.

.

.

If you find him to have

been insane, as I have described, your verdict will be for the
plaintiff. Otherwise it will be for the defendant."
It thus appears that the case was placed before the jury
upon the single issue as to the alleged insanity of the assured
at the time he committed suicide, and with a direction to find
for the plaintiff if the assured was insane at that time, and for
the company if he was then of sound mind.
Assuming that the jury obeyed the instructions of the court,
their verdict must be taken as finding that the assured was
not insane at the time he took his life. We must then inquire
whether the observations of the trial court on the subject of
insanity were liable to objection.
We have seen that the plaintiff asked the court to instruct

the jury that if the assured intentionally killed himself when
his reasoning faculties were so far impaired by insanity that
he was unable to understand the moral character of his act,
even if he did understand its physical nature, consequence and
effect, such self-destruction would not of itself prevent recovery upon the policies.
This was the only instruction asked by the plaintiff which
undertook to define insanity, and, as before stated, it was
given by the court. But in giving it the court said: "We
must understand what is meant and intended by the term
'moral character of his act.' It is a point which has been
used by the courts, and is correctly inserted in the term; but it
is a term which might be misunderstood. We are not to enter
the domain of metaphysics in determining what constitutes
insanity, so far as the subject is involved in this case. If Mr.
IRunk understood what he was doing, and the consequences of
his act or acts, to himself as well as to others-in other
words, if he understood, as a man of sound mind would, the
consequences to follow from his contemplated suicide, to himself, his character, his family and others, and was able to comprehend the wrongfulness of what he was about to do, as
a sane man would-then he is to be regarded by you as
sane. Otherwise he is not." - Substantially the same obser-

RITTER v. MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE CO.

149

Opinion of the Court.

vations were made in that part of the charge, which is above
given.
The plaintiff insists that the definition of insanity, as given
by the trial court, was much narrower than was required or
permitted by the decisions of this court. It is said that the
impairment not only of the moral vision but also of the will,
leaving the deceased in a condition of inability to resist the
impulse of self-destruction, has been accepted by this court as
describing a phase of insanity or mental unsoundness. One
of the "cases to which the plaintiff referred in support of this
view is Davis v. United States, 165 IT. S. 373, 378, which was
a prosecution for murder. It was there held that the accused
was not prejudiced by the following instruction given to the
jury: "The term 'insanity' as used in this defence means
such a perverted and deranged condition of the mental and
moral faculties as to render a person incapable of distinguishing between right and wrong, or unconscious at the time of
the nature of the act he is committing; or where, though conscious of it and able to distinguish between right and wrong,
and know that the act is wrong, yet his will, by which I mean
the governing power of his mind, has been otherwise than
voluntarily so completely destroyed that his actions are not
subject to it, but are beyond his control." This was substantially what had been held by this court in previous cases. Life
Ins. Co. v. Terry, 15 Wall. 580; Bigelow v. Berkshire Life
Ins. Co., 93 U. S. 284; Insurance Co. v. 1?odel, 95 U. S. 232;
Manhattan .Life Ins. Co. v. Broughton, 109 U. S. 121; Connecticut Life Ins. Co. v. Lathrop, 111 U. S. 612; Accident Ins.
Co. v. Crandal, 120 U. S. 527.
In Terry's case, above cited, - which was an action upon a
life policy declaring the policy void if the assured died by his
own hand, -it
became necessary to instruct the jury on the
subject of insanity. The court said: "We hold the rule on
the question before us to be this: If the assured, being in the
possession of his ordinary reasoning faculties, from anger,
pride, jealousy or a desire to escape from the ills of life, intentionally takes his own life, the proviso attaches, and there
can be no recovery. If the death is caused by the voluntary

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

act of the assured, he knowing and intending that his death
shall be the result of his act, but when his reasoning faculties
are so far impaired that he is not able to understand the moral
character, the general nature, consequences and effect of the
act he is about to commit, or when he is impelled thereto by
an insane impulse which he has not the power to resist, such
death is not within the contemplation of the parties to the
contract, and the insurer is liable."
Recurring to the ruling of the court in the present case, it
is not perceived that the plaintiff had any ground to complain
that its definition of insanity was too strict or too narrow.
lHis fifth point, in general terms, defined insanity as being a
condition in which the reasoning faculties are so far impaired
that the person alleged to be insane when committing selfdestruction was unable to understand the moral nature of his
act, even if he understood its physical nature. This definition
was not rejected. On the contrary, it was accepted, the court
at the time making some observations deemed necessary to
show what, in law, was meant by the words "moral nature of
his act." By those observations, the jury were informed that
if the assured understood what he was doing, and the consequences of his act or acts to himself and to others - that is, if
he understood, as a man of sound mind would, the consequences
to follow from his contemplated suicide, to himself, his character, his family and others, and was able to comprehend the
wrongfulness of what he was about to do, as a sane man would
-then he was to be regarded as sane; otherwise, not.
It is suggested that the attention of the jury should have
been brought specifically or more directly to the fact that
unsoundness of mind exists when there is an impulse to take
life which weakened mental and moral powers cannot withstand- a condition in which there is no continued existence"
of a governing will strong enough to resist the tendency to
self-destruction. But the words of the charge, although of a
general character, substantially embodied these views. The
court stated the principal elements of a condition of sanity as
contrasted with insanity. What it said was certainly as
specific as the instruction asked by the plaintiff. If the plain-

RITTER v. MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE CO. 151
Opinion of the Court.

tiff desired a more extended definition of insanity than was
given, his wishes, in that respect, should have been made
known. The court having affirmed his view of what was
evidence of insanity, and such affirmance having been accompanied by observations that brought out with more distinctness and fulness what was meant by the words "moral
character of his act," the plaintiff has no ground to complain;
for nothing said by the court upon the question of insanity
was erroneous in law or inconsistent with that which the
plaintiff asked to be embodied in the charge.
No error of law having been committed in respect of the
issue as to the insanity of the assured, it is to be taken as
the result of the verdict that he was of sound mind when
he took his life.
This brings us to the question whether the insurance company was liable -assuming that it was not a part of the contract enforceable in Pennsylvania, that the assured should "not
die by his own act whether sane or insane," within two years
from the date of the policy.
It is contended that the court erred in saying to the jury,
as in effect it did, that intentional self-destruction, the assured
being of sound mind, is in itself a defence to an action upon
a life policy, even if such policy does not, in express words,
declare- that it shall be void in the event of self-destruction
when the assured is in sound mind. But is it not an implied
condition of such a policy that the assured will not purposely,
when in sound mind, take his own life, but will leave the event
of his death to depend upon some cause other than wilful, deliberate self-destruction?. Looking at the nature and object'
of life insurance, can it be supposed to be within the contemplation of either party to the contract that the company
shall be liable upon its promise to pay, where the assured, in
sound mind, by destroying his own life, intentionally precipitates the event upon the happening of which such liability
was to arise?
Life insurance imports a mutual agreement, whereby the
insurer, in consideration of the payment by the assured of.
a named sum annually or at certain times, stipulates to pay a

OCTOBER TERMT,

1897.

Opinion of the Court.

larger sum at the death of the assured.

The company takes

into consideration, among other things, the age and health of
the parents and relatives of the applicant for insurance, together with his own age, course of life, habits and present
physical condition; and the premium exacted from the assured is determined by the probable duration of his life, calculated upon the basis of past experience in the business of
insurance. The results of that experience are disclosed by
standard life and annuity tables showing at any age the
probable duration of life. These tables are deemed of such
value that they may be admitted in evidence for the purpose
of assisting the jury in an action for personal injury, in which
it is necessary to ascertain the compensation the plaintiff
is entitled to recover for the loss of what he might have
earned in his trade or profession but for such injury. Vicksburg & .Meridian Railroad v. Putnam, 118 U. S. 545, 554.
If a person should apply for a policy expressly providing that
the company should pay the sum named if or in the event the
assured, at any time during the continuance of the contract,
committed self-destruction, being at the time of sound mind,
it is reasonably certain that the application would be instantly
rejected. It is impossible to suppose that an application of
that character would be granted. If experience justifies this
view, it would follow that a policy stipulating generally for
the payment of the sum named in it upon the death of the
assured, should not be interpreted as intended to cover the
event of death caused directly and intentionally by self-destruction whilst the assured was in sound mind, but only
death occurring in the ordinary course of his life.
That the parties to the contract did not contemplate insurance against death caused by deliberate, intentional selfdestruction when the assured was in sound mind, is apparent
from the "provisions, requirements and benefits" referred to
in and made part of the policy. They show that the policy
was issued on the twenty-year distribution plan, and was to
be credited with its distributive share of surplus apportioned
at the expiration of twenty years from the date of issue; that,
after three full annual premiums were paid, the company

RITTER v. MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE CO.

153

Opinion of the Court.

would, upon the ' legal surrender of the policy, before default
in the payment of any premium, or within six months thereafter, issue a non-participating policy for a paid up insurance,
payable as provided, for the amount required by the provisions
of the New York statute of May 21, 1879, Laws of New York,
c. 347; that the assured was entitled to surrender the policy
at the end of the first period of twenty years "and the full
reserve computed by the American table of mortality, and
four per cent interest, and the surplus, as defined above, will
be paid therefor in cash;" that if the assured surrendered the
policy the total cash value at the option of the policy holder
should be applied "to the purchase of an annuity for life,
according to the published rates of the company at the time
of surrender;" that after two years from the date of the
policy the only conditions that should be binding on the
holder of the policy were that "he shall pay the premiums
at the time and place and in the manner stipulated in the
policy, and that the requirements of the company as to age,
and military or naval service in time of war shall be observed;" that in all other respects, if the policy matured
after the expiration of two years, the payment of the sum
insured should not be disputed; and that the party whose life
was insured should always wear a suitable truss. These provisions of the contract tend to show that the death referred to
in the policy was a death occurring in the ordinary course of
the life of the assured, and not by his own violent act designed
to bring about that event.
In the case of fire insurance it is well settled that although
a policy, in the usual form, indemnifying against loss by fire,
may cover a loss attributable merely to the negligence or
carelessness of the insured, unaffected by fraud or design, it
will not cover a destruction of the property by the wilful act
of the assured himself in setting fire to it, not for the purpose
of avoiding a peril of a worse kind but with the intention of
simply effecting its destruction. Much more should it be held
that it is not contemplated by a policy taken out by the person whose life is insured and stipulating for the payment of a
named sum to himself, his executors, administrators or assigns,

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

that the company should be liable, if his death was intentionally caused by himself when in sound mind. When the policy
is silent as to uicide, it is to be taken that the subject of the
insurance, that is, the life of the assured, shall not be intentionally and directly, with whatever motive, destroyed by him
when in sound mind. To hold otherwise is to say that the
occurrence of the event upon the happening of which the
company undertook to pay, was intended to be left to his
option. That view is against the very essence of the contract.
There is another consideration supporting the contention
that death intentionally caused by the act of the assured
when in sound mind-the policy being silent as to suicide
-is not to be deemed to have been within the contemplation
of the parties; that is, that a different view would attribute
to them a purpose to make a contract that could not be
enforced without injury to the public.
A contract, the
tendency of which is to endanger the public interests or
injuriously affect the public good, or which is subversive of
sound morality, ought never to receive the sanction of a court
of justice or be made the foundation of its judgment. If,
therefore, a policy-taken out by the person whose life is
insured, and in which the sum named is made payable to
himself, his executors, administrators or assigns -expressly
provided for the payment of the sum stipulated when or if
the assured, in sound mind, took his own life, the contract,
even if not prohibited by statute, would be held to be against
public policy, in that it tempted or encouraged the assured to
commit suicide in order to make provision for those dependent
upon him, or to whom he was indebted.
Is the case any different in principle if such a policy is silent
as to suicide, and the event insured against -the death of the
assured-is brought about by his wilful, deliberate act when
in sound mind? Light will be thrown on this question by
some of the adjudged cases, having more or less bearing upon
the precise point now before this court for determination.
The plaintiff insists that the question just stated is answered
in the affirmative by the opinion in Life Ins. Co. v. Terry,

ITTER v. MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE CO.

155

Opinion of the Court.

15 Wall. 580. As before stated, that was an action upon a
life policy, containing the condition that it should be void if
the assured should "die by his own hand;" and the controlling question was whether the condition embraced the case of
an assured who committed self-destruction at a time when his
reasoning faculties were so far impaired that he was unable to
comprehend the moral character, the general nature, consequences and effect of the act he was about to commit, or
when he was impelled thereto by an insane impulse which
he had not the power to resist. There was no question in
that case as to the effect upon the rights of the parties of
intentional self-destruction, where the policy contained no
provision as to suicide. In the course of the review of the
adjudged cases reference was made in the opinion of this
court to Borradaile v. Runter, 5 M-ann. & Gr. 639, and also
to Hartman v. Keystone Ins. Co., 21 Penn. St. 466, 479. In
the former case it appeared that the assured threw himself
into the Thames and was drowned, and the jury found that
he voluntarily threw himself into the water, knowing at the
time that he should thereby destroy his life, and intending
thereby to do so, but at the time of committing the act he
was not capable of judging between right and wrong. The
question was as to the liability of the insurance company on
a policy issued to the assured containing a clause or proviso
that the policy should be void if "the assured should die by
his own hands, or by the hands of justice, or in consequence
of a duel." Maule, Erskine and Coltman, JJ., held that the
company was not liable, while Tindall, C. J., was of the
opinion that the proviso embraced cases of felonious suicide
only, and not cases of self-destruction whilst the assured
was under the influence of frenzy, delusion or insanity. In
the latter case it appeared that the assured committed selfdestruction by taking arsenic. The Supreme Court of Pennsylvania held that there could be no recovery, Chief Justice
Black saying: "The conditions of the policy are, that it
shall be null and void Iif the assured shall die by his own
hand, in or in consequence of a duel, or by the hands of justice,' etc. The plaintiff argues that the first clause here quoted

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

does not embrace a suicide committed by swallowing arsenic.
Where parties have put their contracts in writing their rights
are fixed by it. But the contract is what they meant it to be,
and when we can ascertain their meaning from the words they
have used, we must give it effect. One rule of interpretation
is, that we must never attribute an absurd intent if a sensible
one can be extracted from the writing. No absurdity could
be greater than a stipulation against suicide in a duel. The
words 'die by his own hand,' must, therefore, be disconnected
from those which follow. Standing alone, they mean any
sort of suicide. Besides this, the court was very plainly
right in charging that if no such condition had been inserted
in the policy, a man who commits suicide is guilty of such a
fraud upon the insurers of his life that his representatives
cannot recover for that reason alone." Mr. Justice Hunt,
delivering the opinion in Terry's case, made an observation
in relation to the two cases just cited which is supposed to
be favorable to the plaintiff's contention. He said: "In
HUartman v. Kieystone Ins. Co. the doctrine of Borradaile
v. Hzunter was adopted, with the confessedly unsound addition that suicide would avoid a policy although there was
no condition to that effect in the policy." This observation
of the learned justice was irrelevant to the case before the
court, and cannot be regarded as determining the point in
judgment. If it was meant there could be a recovery by
the personal representative of an assured who took out the
policy, and who, in sound mind, took his own life-the
policy being silent in reference to suicide - we cannot concur
in that view.
In /Y. Y. XA-ut. Life Ins. Co. v. Armstrong, 117 U. S. 591,
600, which was an action by the assignee of a life policy, the
defence, in part, being that the assignee murdered the assured
in order to get the benefit of the policy, Mr. Justice Field,
speaking for this court, said: "Independently of any proof of
the motives of Hunter [the assignee] in obtaining the policy,
and even assuming that they were just and proper, he forfeited all rights under it, when, to secure its immediate payment, he murdered the assured. It would be a reproach to

lITTER v. MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE CO.

157

Opinion of the Court.

the jurisprudence of the country if one could recover insurance
money payable on the death of a party whose life he had
feloniously taken. As well might he recover insurance money
upon a building that he had wilfully fired."
In Hatch v. XA utual Life Ins. Co., 120 Mass. 550, 552, it
appears that a policy of' insurance on the life of a married
woman provided that "if the said person whose life is hereby
insured shall die by her own act or hand, whether sane or
insane, the policy should be null and void." It was in proof
that the assured died by reason of a miscarriage produced by
an illegal operation performed upon and voluntarily submitted
to by her with intent to cause an abortion, and without any
justifiable medical reason for such an operation. The court,
observing that this voluntary act on the part of the assured
was condemned alike by the laws of nature and by the laws
of all civilized States, and was known by the assured to be
dangerous to life, said: "We are of opinion that no recovery
can be had in this case, because the act on the part of the
assured causing death was of such a character that public
policy would preclude the defendant from insuring her against
its consequences; for we can have no question that a contract
to insure a woman against the risk of her dying under or in
consequence of an illegal operation for abortion would be contrary to public policy, and could not be enforced in the courts
of this Commonwealth." The report of the case shows that
it was decided without reference to the questions raised by
the special clauses of the policy.
The subject was considered by the Supreme Court of
Alabama in Sireme Commandery &c. v. Ainsworthz, 71
Alabama, 436, 446. Chief Justice Brickell, delivering the
unanimous judgment of that court, said:
"In all contracts of insurance, there is an implied understanding or agreement that the risks insured against are such
as the thing insured, whether it is property, or health, or life,
is usually subject to, and the assured cannot voluntarily and
intentionally vary them. Upon principles of public policy
and morals, the fraud, or the criminal misconduct of the
assured, is, in contracts of marine or of fire insurance, an

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

implied exception to the liability of the insurer. Waters v.
.Aerchants' Louisville Ins. Co., 11 Pet. 213; Citizens' Ins.
Co. v. .Marsh, 41 Penn. St. 386; Chandler v. Worcester _Mut.
Fire Ins. Co., 3 Cush. 328. Death, the risk of life insurance,
the event upon which the insurance money is payable, is
certain of occurrence; the uncertainty of the time of its
occurrence is the material element and consideration of the
contract. It cannot be in the contemplation of the parties,
that the assured, by his own criminal act, shall deprive the
contract of its material element; shall vary and enlarge the
risk, and hasten the day of payment of the insurance money.
The doctrine asserted in Fauntleroy's case, that death by the
hands of public justice, the punishment for the commission of
crime, avoids a contract of life insurance, though it is not so
expressed in the contract, has not, so far as we have examined,
been questioned, though the case itself may have led to the
very general introduction of the exception into policies. The
same considerations and reasoning which support the doctrine
seem to lead, of necessity, to the conclusion, that voluntary,
criminal self-destruction, suicide, as defined at common law,
should be implied as an exception to the liability of the
insurer, or, rather, as not within the risks contemplated by
the parties, reluctant as the courts- may be to introduce by
construction or implication exceptions into such contracts,
which usually contain special exceptions." Again: "The fair
and just interpretation of a contract of life insurance, made
with the assured, is, that the risk is of death proceeding from
other causes than the voluntary act of the assured, producing,
or intended to produce it;" and that "the extinction of life
by disease, or by accident, not suicide, voluntary and intentional, by the assured, while in his senses, is the risk intended;
and it is not intended that, without the hazard of loss, the
assured may safely commit crime."
In support of the general proposition that the law will not
enforce contracts and agreements that are against the public
good, and, therefore, are forbidden by public policy, reference
is often made to the case of Tlie Amicable Society &c. v.
Bolland, 4 Bligh, N. S. 194, 211, known as .Fauntleroy'scase.

r

IITTER v. MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE CO.

159

Opinion of the Court.

That was an action by assignees in bankruptcy to secure the
amount due on a policy of insurance stipulating for the payment of a certain sum, upon the death of Fauntleroy, to his
executors, administrators or assigns. The assured was convicted of forgery, and for that offence was executed. The
Lord Chancellor, after observing that the question was
whether the parties representing and claiming under one who
effects insurance upon his life, and afterwards commits a capital felony, for which he was tried and executed, could recover
the amount named in the policy, said: "It appears to me that
this resolves itself into a very plain and simple consideration.
Suppose that in the policy itself this risk had been insured
against: that is, that the party insuring had agreed to pay a
sum of money year by year, upon condition, that in the event
of his committing a capital felony, and being tried, convicted
and executed for that felony, his assignees shall receive a
certain sum of money- is it possible that such a contract
could be sustained? Is it not void upon the plainest principles of public policy? Would not such a contract (if available)
take away one of those restraints operating on the minds of
men against the commission of crimes? namely, the interest
we have in the welfare and prosperity of our connections?
Now, if a policy of that description, with such a form of
condition inserted in it in express terms, cannot, on grounds
of public policy, be sustained, how is it to be contended that
in a policy expressed in such terms as the present, and after
the events which have happened, that we can sustain such a
claim? Can we, in considering this policy, give to it the effect
of that insertion, which if expressed in terms would have
rendered the policy, as far as that condition went at least,
altogether void ?"
Referring to that case, Bunyon in his work on Life Insurance says: "It would render those natural affections which
make every man desirous of providing for his family, an inducement to crime; for the case may be well supposed of a
person insuring his life for that purpose, with the intention of
committing suicide. For a policy, moreover, to remain in
force when death arose from any such cause would be a fraud

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

upon the insurers, for a man's estate would thereby benefit by
his own felonious act. Hence the rule of law when there is
no condition whatever, but in that case, if the suicide or selfdestruction takes place when the assured is insane and not
accountable for his acts, the rule arising from public policy
does not apply, and his representatives are entitled to the
policy money." 3d ed. p. 96; 2d ed. p. 72.
In 3 foore v. Woolsey, 4 Ell. & B. 243, 254, in which the
question was as to the rights of an assignee under a policy
providing that if the assured should die by duelling or by his
own hand, or the hand of justice, it should be void as to the
personal representative of the assured, Lord Campbell, 0. J.,
said that, "if a man insures his life for a year, and commits
suicide within the year, his executors cannot recover on the
policy, as the owner of a ship who insures her for a year cannot recover upon the policy if within the year he causes her
to be sunk: a stipulation that, in either case, upon such an
event the policy should give a right of action, would be void."
For the reasons we have stated, it must be held that the
death of the assured, William M. Runk, if directly and intentionally caused by himself, when in sound mind, was not a
risk intended to be covered, or which could legally have been
covered, by the policies in suit.
The case presents other questions, but they are of minor
importance, and do not affect the sulstantial rights of the
parties.
We perceive no error of law in the record, and the judgment is

Afflrmed.
MR. JUSTI E PEOIKHAm did not take part in the consideration
or decision of this case.

