OCTOBER TERAT, 1897.
Syllabus.

operative. What effect the supersedeas had, when it was
afterwards obtained, on the previous appointment, we need
not consider. This is not an appropriate form of proceeding to
determine whether Foster or Mloore is now legally in office."
The rule was therefore discharged.
In this case it is also true that the judgment operated of
itself to remove the plaintiff in error. The judgment also
adjudged the title to the office to be in the relator. After
the filing of the supersedeas bond it may be assumed that
further action under the judgment was stayed. The question
is whether the relator is shown to be guilty of a contempt in
proceeding to take possession after he knew of the filing of the
bond. He swears unequivocally that he was ignorant of the
fact of the allowance of a writ or the filing of the bond at
the time when he took possession of the room occupied by the
commission, and that he was not informed of that fact until
some time the next day. We think this a sufficient answer to
the case as it is now presented to us, and that any further proceeding is rendered unnecessary because of our conclusion to
dismiss the writ of error for want of jurisdiction. We see no
evidence of any intentional contempt on the part of relator,
and our conclusion is that the rule must be
.Dischargel.
In WILSON V. NORTH CAROLrNA, No. 559 submitted wth No. 558,
the same questions are involved and the same orders are made.

UNITED STATES, ex rel. BERNARDIN v. BUTTERWORTH.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
No. 404.

Submitted February 21, 1898.-Decided March 21,1898.

A suit to compel the Commissioner of Patents to issue a patent abates by
the death of the Commissioner, and cannot be revived so as to bring in
his successor, although the latter gives his consent.
The act of Maryland of 1785, c. 80, is not applicable to such a case.

U. S., ex rel. BERNARDIN v. BUTTERWORTH.

601

Opinion of the Court.

THIS was a motion to substitute Mr. Duell, Commissioner of
Patents as defendant in the place of Mr. Butterworth, Commissioner, deceased. The case is stated in the opinion.
.Mr. J lian C. Dowell for the motion.
_2r. J.

. IWilson opposing.

MR. JusTicE SHiRAS delivered the opinion of the court.
On March 23, 1895, John S. Seymour, Commissioner of Patents, on appeal in an interference proceeding between the
applications of Alfred S. Bernardin and William H. :Northall,
decided that Bernardin was entitled to a patent for the invention involved in the interference. From this decision an appeal was taken by Northall to the Court of Appeals of the
District of Columbia, and the decision of the Commissioner
was by that court reversed.
Bernardin then instituted proceedings in the Supreme Court
of the District of Columbia, seeking to compel the Commissioner to issue a patent in accordance with his previous decision, claiming that the act of Congress approved February 9,
1893, which, in form, confers jurisdiction upon the Court of
Appeals of the District of Columbia to hear appeals from the
action of the Commissioner of Patents, is unconstitutional and
void, in that it attempts to confer jurisdiction upon that court
to review or reverse the action of the Commissioner.
The Supreme Court of the District of Columbia dismissed
the petition for mandamus, and, on appeal, the Court of Appeals of the District sustained the judgment of the Supreme
Court. Bernardin v. Seymour, 10 App. D. C. 294.
Thereafter John S. Seymour resigned his office as Commissioner of Patents, and, on April 12, 1897, Benjamin Butterworth was appointed his successor. On April 17, 1897,
Bernardin filed a new petition for mandamus in the Supreme
Court of the District of Columbia, which was dismissed, and
that decision was, on appeal to the Court of Appeals of the
District, on May 11, 1897, affirmed.

OCTOBER TERMS, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

On May 25, 1897, a writ of error was allowed from this court,
and, while the case was 'here pending, on January 16, 1898,
Benjamin Butterworth died, and C. H. Duell was thereafter
appointed to the office thus left vacant; and a motion has been
made for leave to substitute Duell in the stead of Butterworth,
notwithstanding that by the death of the latter the action had
abated.
The question thus presented is not a novel one. In Secretary v. -MfeGarraham,9 Wall. 298, it was held that a judgment in mandamus ordering the performance of an official duty
against an officer, as if yet in office, when in fact he had gone
out after service of the writ, and before the judgment, is void,
and cannot be executed against his successor. In United
States v. Boutwell, 17 Wall. 601, it was held that, in the absence
of statutory provision to the contrary, a mandamus against an
officer of the government abates on his death or retirement
from office, and that his -successor in office cannot be brought
in by way of amendment of the proceeding, or on an order for
the substitution of parties. The conclusion reached was put
upon two independent grounds, and we quote the reasoning
of the court, expressed in its opinion delivered by Mr. Justice
Strong, as follows:
"The office of a writ of mandamus is to compel the performance of a duty resting upon the person to whom the writ
is sent. That duty may have originated in one way or in
another. It may, as alleged in the present case, have arisen
from the acceptance of an office which has imposed the duty
upon its incumbent. But no matter out of what fact or relations the duty has grown, what the law requires, and what it
seeks to enforce by a writ of mandamus, is the personal obligation of the individual to whom it addresses the writ. If
he be an officer, and the duty be an official one, still the writ
is aimed exclusively against him as a person, and he only can
be punished for disobedience. The writ does not reach the
office. It cannot be directed to it. It is, therefore, a personal
action, and it rests upon the averred and assumed fact that the
defendant has neglected or refused to perform a personal duty,
to the performance of which by him the relator has a clear

U. S., ex rel. BERINARDIN v. BUTTER WORTH.

603

Opinion of the Court.

right. Hence it is an imperative rule that previous to making application for a writ to command the performance of
any particular act, an express or distinct demand or request
to perform it must have been made by the relator or prosecutor upon the defendant, and it must appear that he refused
to comply with such demand, either in direct terms or by conduct from which a refusal can be conclusively inferred. Thus
it is the personal default of the defendant that warrants the
impetration of the writ, and if a peremptory mandamus be
awarded, the costs must fall upon the defendant. It necessarily follows from this, that on the death or retirement from
office, the writ must abate in the absence of any statutory provision to the contrary. When the personal duty exists, only
so long as the office is held, the court cannot compel the defendant to perform it after his power to perform has ceased.
And if d successor in office may be substituted, he may be
mulcted in costs for the default of his predecessor, without
any delinquency of his own. Besides, were a demand made
upon him, he might discharge the duty and render the interposition of the court unnecessary. In all events, he is not in
privity with his predecessor, much less is he his predecessor's
personal representative. . . .
"And even if the retirement of the defendant from office
and his consequent inability to perform the act demanded to
be done does not abate the writ, or necessitate its discontinuance, there is still an insuperable difficulty in the way of our
directing the substitution asked for. We can exercise only
appellate power. We have no original jurisdiction in the
case. But any summons issued, or rule upon the successor
in office, requiring him to become a party to the suit, would
be an exercise of original jurisdiction over both a new party
and a new cause, for the duty which he would be required to
perform would be his own, not that of his predecessor."
In TDomysom v. United States, 103 U. S. 480, the distinction is pointed out between proceedings where the obligation
sought be enforced devolves upon a corporation or continuing
body, and those where the duty is iiersonal with the officer.
In the former case there is no abatement. The duty is per-

OCTOBER TERM, "1897.
Opinion of the Court.

petual upon the corporation; in the latter, the delinquency
charged is personal, and involves no charge against the Government, against which a proceeding would not lie.
United States v. Chandler, 122 U. S. 643, was the case of a
writ of error in review of a judgment of the Supreme Court of
the District of Columbia refusing a mandamus against William
E. Chandler, Secretary of the Navy, to require of him the performance of certain alleged official duties. When the case was
called, it appeared that Mr. Chandler was no longer Secretary,
and that the office was filled by his successor. Thereupon this
court, upon the authority of United States v. Boutwell, held
that the suit had abated, and dismissed the writ of error.
A similar view prevailed in United States v. Loehren, 16-1
U. S.701.
In Warner Valley Stock Company v. Smithb, 165 U. S. 28,
the subject was considered at some length. There a bill had
been filed against Hoke Smith, as Secretary of the Interior,
to compel him to cause patents to be issued to the plaintiff
for certain tracts of land. The Supreme Court of the District sustained a demurrer to the bill and dismissed the suit.
While an appeal to this court was pending, Hoke Smith resigned his office, and it was held that the bill could not be
amended by making his successor a defendant, because he
was not in office before the bill was filed and had no part
in the doings complained of, and accordingly the cause was
remanded with directions to dismiss the bill. In discussing
the case Mr. Justice Gray cited the cases just mentioned and
several others to the same effect, and again pointed out the
difference between the case of a public officer of the United
States and that of a municipal board, which is a continuing
corporation, although its individual members may be changed,
to which in its corporate capacity a writ of mandamus may
be directed; and in respect to which the language of Chief
Justice Waite, in Commissioners v. Sellew, 99 U. S.624, was
quoted: "One of the objects in creating such corporations,
capable of suing and being sued, and having perpetual succession, is that the very inconvenience which manifested itself
in Boutwell's case may be avoided."

U. S., ex rel. BERNARDIN v. BUTTERWOR TH.

605

Opinion of the Court.
In the absence, therefore, of statutory authority, we cannot,
after a cause of this character has abated, bring a new party
into the case. Nor is the want of such authority supplied by
the consent of a person not a party in the cause.
It is, however, contended that an act of the State of Maryland enacted in 1785, chapter 80, section 1, and which, it is
claimed, became the law of the District of Columbia when
the territory thereof was ceded to the United States, is applicable. The terms of said section are as follows:
"No action, brought or to be brought, in any court of-this
State shall abate by the death of either of the parties to such
action, but upon the death of any defendant, in a case where
the action by such death would have abated before this act,
the action shall be continued, and the heir, devisee, executor
or administrator of the defendant, as the case may require, or
other person interested on the part of the defendant, may
appear to such action."
It is suggested that the attention of this court was not
called to this statute in the previous cases. However that
may have been, we are unable to perceive that this statute,
either in its terms or its spirit, is applicable to cases like the
present one. Neither the heir, devisee, executor or administrator of a deceased official would have any legal interest in
such a controversy. Nor, in the case of a resignation, could
the successor be said to be "a person interested on the part of
the defendant."
In view of the inconvenience, of which the present case is
a striking instance, occasioned by this state of the law, it
would seem desirable that Congress should provide for the
difficulty by enacting that, in the case of suits against the
heads of departments abating by death or resignation, it
should be lawful for the successor in office to be brought into
the case by petition, or some other appropriate method.
Tie motion is refused, and the judgment of the Court of
A4pveals is reversed,-the costs in this court to be 2aid by
the jplaintiff in error, and the cause remanded to that
court with directions to reverse the judgment of the Su.reme Court of the District of Columbia and remand

OCTOBER TERMI, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

the cause to that court with directions to dismiss the petitionfor the writ of mandamus because of the death of the
defendant Butterworth.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN, MR. JUSTICE BREWEpR and MR. JUSTICE

PEoxKAm dissented.

McCORMICK HARVESTING MACHINE CO. v.
AULTMAN.
SAME v. AULTMAN-MILLER COMPANY.
CERTIFICATE FROMI THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.
Nos. 180, 181. Argued December 1, 2, 1S9T. -Decided

March 21, 1898.

If the, owner of a patent applies to the Patent Office for a reissue of it and
includes, among the claims in the application, the same claims as those
which were included in the old patent, and the primary examiner rejects
some of such claims for want of patentable novelty, by reference to prior
patents, and allows others, both old and new, the owner of the patent
does not, by taking no appeal and by abandoning his application for reissue, hold the original patent (the return of which he procures from the
Patent Office) invalidated as to those of its claims which were disallowed
for want of patentable novelty by the primary examiner in the proceeding for reissue ; as the Patent Office, by the issue of the original patent,
had lost jurisdiction over it, and did not regain it by the application for
a reissue.

THIS was a question certified to this court by the Circuit
Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit, involving the authority
of a primary examiner of the Patent Office to reject as invalid claims of an original patent which were incorporated in
an application for a reissue.
It appears that the McCormick Harvesting Machine Company filed a bill in equity in the United States Circuit Court
for the Northern District of Ohio against C. Aultman et al.,
and also one against the Aultman-Miller Company, in each of

