MISSOURI, KANSAS & TEXAS RAILWAY v. HABER.

613

Syllabus.

MISSOURI, KANSAS AND TEXAS RAILWAY
COMPANY v. HABER.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF KANSAS.
No.268. Argued January 2T, 1898.-Decided

March 14, 1S95.

The act of Kansas of 1891, c. 201, as amended and as it appears in 2 Gen.
Stats. Kansas, 1897, 761, c. 139, relating to bringing into the State cattle
liable or capable of communicating Texas, splenic or Spanish fever to any
domestic cattle of the State, and providing for the trial of civil actions
brought to recover damages therefor, is not overridden by the act of
Congress of March 29, 1884, 23 Stat. 31, c. 60, known as the Animal Industry Act, nor by the act of March 3, 1891, 26 Stat. 1044, 1049, c. 544,
appropriating money to carry out the provisions of the above act, nor by
section 5258 of the Revised Statutes, authorizing every railroad company
in the United States, operated by steam, its successors and assigns, " to
carry upon and over its road, boats, bridges and ferries all passengers,
troops, Government supplies, mails, freight and property on their way
from any State to another State, and to receive compensation therefor,
and to connect with roads of other States so as to form continuous lines
for the transportation of the same to the place of destination "; as Congress has not assumed to give to any corporation, company or person
the affirmative right to transport from one State to another State cattle
that were liable to impart or capable of communicating contagious, infectious or communicable diseases.
Whether a corporation transporting, or the person causing to be transported
from one State to another, cattle of the class specifled in the Kansas statute should be liable in a civil action for any damages sustained by the
owners of domestic cattle by reason of the introduction into their State
of such diseased cattle, is a subject about which the act of March 29,
1884, c. 60, 23 Stat. 31, known as the Animal Industry Act, did not make
any provision.
The provision in the Kansas act imposing such civil liability is in aid of the
objects which Congress had in view when it passed the Animal Industry
Act, and it was passed in execution of a power with which the State did
not part when entering the Union, namely, the power to protect the people in the enjoyment of their rights of property, and to provide for the
redress of wrongs within its limits, and is not, within the meaning of the
Constitution, nor in any just sense, a regulation of commerce among
the States.
A state statute, although enacted in pursuance of a power not surrendered
to the General Government, must in the execution of its provisions yield
in case of conflict to a statute constitutionally enacted under authority
conferred upon Congress; and this, without regard to the source of
power whence the state legislature derived its enactment.

OCTOBER TER-M, 1897.
Counsel for Parties.
Neither corporations nor individuals are entitled by force alone of the Constitution of the United States and without liability for injuries resulting
therefrom to others, to bring into one State from another State cattle
liable to impart or capable of communicating disease to domestic cattle.
Although the powers of a State must in their exercise give way to a power
exerted by Congress under the Constitution, it has never been adjudged
that that instrument by its own force gives any one the right to introduce
into a State, against its will, cattle so affected with disease that their
presence in the State will be dangerous to domestic cattle.
Prior cases reviewed and held to proceed upon the ground that the regulation of the enjoyment of the relative rights, and the performance of the
duties, of all persons within the jurisdiction of a State belongs primarily
to such State under its reserved power to provide for the safety of all
persons and property within its limits; and that even if the subject of
such regulations be one that may be taken under the exclusive control of
Congress, and be reached by national legislation, any action taken by the
State upon that subject that does not directly interfere with rights secured by the Constitution of the United States or by some valid act of
Congress, must be respected until Congress intervenes.
An act of Congress that does no more than give authority to railroad companies to carry "freight and property" over their respective roads from
one State to another State, will not authorize a railroad company to carry
into a State cattle known, or which by due diligence may be known, to be
in such a condition as to ihpart or communicate disease to the domestic
cattle of such State.
If the carrier takes diseased cattle into a State, it does so subject for any
injury thereby done to domestic cattle to such liability as may arise under
any law of the State, that does not go beyond the necessities of the case
and burden or prohibit interstate commerce, and a statute prescribing as a
rule of civil conduct that a person or corporation shall not bring into the
State cattle known, or which by proper diligence could be known, to
be capable of communicating disease to domestic cattle, cannot be regarded as beyond the necessities of the case, nor as interfering with any
right intended to be given or recognized by section 5258 of the Revised
Statutes.
If Congress could authorize the carrying of such cattle from one State into
another State, and by legislation protect the carrier against all suits for
damages arising therefrom, it has not done so, nor has it enacted any
statute that prevents a State from prescribing such a rule of civil conduct as that found in the statute of Kansas.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
-M'. Jame8 Hagerman, Mr'. T. IV. Sedgwic7 and -Mr. Simon
Sterne for plaintiff in error.
Mr. E. TT Cunningham, .Mr. J. Jay Buck and .Mr. F. C.

MISSOURI, KANSAS & TEXAS RAILWAY v. HABER.

615

Opinion of the Court.

Pery for defendants in error.
them on their briefs.
MR.

K_
JUSTIoE TTAAN

.Mr. Eigene Eagan Was with

delivered the opinion of the court.

This action was brought in one of the courts of Kansas
against the Missouri, Kansas and Texas Railway Company, a
corporation of that State, and certain persons constituting the
respective firms of F. Brogan & Sons and Hozier Bros. Its
object was to recover the damages sustained by the plaintiff
Charles Haber, one of the appellees, by reason of the defendants having brought and caused to be brought into that State
certain cattle alleged to have been affected with the disease
known as Texas, splenic or Spanish fever and communicated
by them to the plaintiff's cattle whereby the latter sickened
and died.
M,any persons having like causes of action intervened as
parties defendant, and each by cross-petition asked judgment
against the railway company.
It appeared in evidence that Hozier Bros. in the spring of
1892 owned and controlled a ranch of several thousand acres
of land in Pecos County, Texas, upon which cattle known as
Texas cattle were permitted to range. They entered into an
agreement with F. Brogan & Sons, whereby the latter were
to receive from the former a part of the above cattle at some
point in Lyon County, Kansas, and take them to their ranch
in Chase County in the same State to be there grazed during
the summer of 1892. In execution of that agreement, Hozier
Bros. caused to be shipped by railroad into Kansas from Pecos
County, Texas, about 2500 head of cattle which were delivered
by the defendant company in its stock yards at Hartford,
Kansas, to F. Brogan & Sons, and by the latter were driven
through Lyon and Chase counties to their range. These
cattle, it was alleged, communicated Texas, splenic or Spanish
fever to domestic cattle that were owned by the plaintiff and
by the cross-petitioners.
The case was tried and submitted to the jury only as be-"
tween the plaintiff, the cross-petitioners and the railway com-

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

pany, the latter denying liability for any damages sustained

-

by the former. The trial resulted in verdicts and judgments
in favor of the plaintiff and of each of the cross-petitioners.
The judgments having been affirmed by one final judgment
in the Supreme Court of Kansas, the case is here upon a writ
of error sued out by the railway company, which contends
that effect has been given to statutes of the State that are
repugnant to the Constitution and laws of the United States.
That contention involves the Federal question presented for
determination.
In 1881 the legislature of Kansas passed an act for the protection of cattle in that State against contagious diseases.
Laws of Kansas, 1881, c. 161. But those provisions need not
be set out here, because they appear in subsequent enactments
to which we will presently refer.
By a state enactment approved March 25, 1884, provision
was made for a Live Stock Sanitary Commission, which was
charged with the duty of protecting "the health of the domestic animals of the State from all contagious or infectious
diseases of a malignant character," and was empowered to
establish, maintain and enforce such quarantine, sanitary and
other regulations as it deemed necessary. Laws of 1884, c. 2,
§ 2. And by an act approved March 26, 1884, that commission
was authorized to create and enforce quarantine against the
disease known as Texas, splenic or Spanish fever in the unorganized counties of the State. Laws of 1884, c. 4, § 1.
The commission was also authorized and directed by another
act approved on the same day to codperate with the Commissioner of Agriculture of the United States or any officer of
the General Government in the suppression and extirpation
of contagious diseases among domestic animals, and in the
enforcement and execution of all acts of Congress passed to
prevent the importation or exportation of diseased cattle and
the spread of infectious or contagious disease among domestic animals. Laws of 1884, c. 5, § 1.
In 1885 another statute was passed, which was amended in
1891. Laws of 1891, c. 201. As amended, and as it appears
in General Statutes of Kansas of 1897, vol. 2, c. 139, p. 761,

MISSOURI, KANSAS & TEXAS RAILWAY v. HABER.

617

Opinion of the Court.

that statute made it a misdemeanor for any person, between
the first day of February and the first day of December of
any year, to drive or cause to be driven into or through any
county in the State, or to turn upon or cause to be turned or
kept upon any highway, range, common or pasture within the
State, any cattle capable of communicating or liable to impart
what is known as Texas, splenic or Spanish fever. § 13. By
another section it was made the duty of any sheriff, under
sheriff, deputy sheriff or constable within the State, upon
complaint made to him that there were within the county,
where such officer resided cattle believed to be capable of
communicating or liable to impart the disease known as
Texas, splenic or Spanish fever, to forthwith take charge of
and restrain them under such temporary quarantine regulations as would prevent the communication of such disease,
and make immediate report thereof to the Live Stock Sanitary
Commission. § 14.
Other sections provided
"§ 16. Any person or persons who shall drive, ship or
transport, or cause to be shipped, driven or transported, into
or through any county in this State, any cattle liable or capable of communicating Texas, splenic or Spanish fever, to any
domestic cattle of this State, shall be liable to any person
or persons injured thereby for all damages that they may
sustain by reason of the communication of said disease, or
Texas, splenic or Spanish fever, to be recovered in a civil
action in any court of competent jurisdiction, and the parties
so injured shall have a first and prior lien to all other liens
for such damages on the cattle communicating the disease of
Texas, splenic or Spanish fever.
"§ 17. In the trial of any person charged with the violation
of any provisions of this act, and in the trial of any civil action
brought to recover damages for the communication of Texas,
splenic or Spanish fever, proof that the cattle which such
person or persons are charged with shipping, driving or keeping, or which are claimed to have communicated the said
diseases, were brought into this State from south of the
thirty-seventh parallel of north latitude, shall be taken as

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

primafacie evidence that such cattle were, between the first
day of February and the first day of December of the year
in which the offence was committed, capable of communicating and liable to impart Texas, splenic or Spanish fever,
within the meaning of this act, and that the owner or owners
or person or persons in charge of such cattle had full knowledge and notice thereof. If the owner or owners or person
or persons in charge of said cattle shall show by such certificate or certificates, as shall hereafter be designated by the
Live Stock Sanitary Commission of the State, that the said
cattle had been kept since the first day of December of the
previous year west of the twenty-second meridian of longitude
west from Washington, and north of the thirty-fourth parallel of north latitude, the provisions of this section shall not
apply thereto.
"§ 18. Whenever two or more persons shall in violation of
this act, at the same time or at different times during the same
year, drive or cause to be driven upon the same highway,
range, common or pasture within this State, any cattle capable
of communicating or liable to impart Texas, splenic or Spanish
fever, they shall be jointly and severally liable for all damages
that may arise from the communication of such disease at any
time thereafter during the same year to any native, domestic
or acclimated cattle that shall have been upon the same highway, range, common or pasture so previously travelled over
by such first-mentioned cattle."
The general contention of the plaintiff in error is that the
act of Congress of May 29, 1884, 23 Stat. 31, c. 60, known as
the Animal Industry Act, together with the act of March 3,
1891, 26 Stat. 1044, 1049, c. 544, appropriating money to carry
out the provisions of that act, and section 5258 of the Revised
Statutes relating to the transportation of passengers, freight,
property, etc., from one State to another State by railroad,
cover substantially the whole subject of the transportation
from one State to another State of live stock liable to impart
or capable of communicating infectious or contagious diseases,
and therefore that the State of Kansas has no authority to
deal in any form with that subject

MISSOURI, KANSAS & TEXAS RAILWAY v. 1ABER.

619

Opinion of the Court.

Are the acts of Congress and the regulations established
under their authority of such a character that the legislation
of Kansas is without effect so far as it relates to injury done
to domestic cattle by the bringing into that State of cattle
liable to impart or capable of communicating Texas, splenic
or Spanish fever to domestic cattle?
The act of Congress of May 29, 1884, provided for the
establishment of a Bureau of Animal Industry, and for the
appointment of a chief thereof and two competent, practical
stock raisers or experienced business men familiar with questions pertaining to commercial transactions in live stock,
whose duty it should be under the instructions of the Com-

missioner of Agriculture, to investigate and report upon the
condition of the domestic animals of the United States, their

protection and use, and also to examine and report upon the
best methods of treating, transporting and caring for animals,
and the means to be adopted for the suppressiof and extirpation of contagious pleuro-pneumonia, and to provide against
the spread of other dangerous, contagious, infectious and communicable diseases. §§ 1, 2.
By other sections of the act it was provided:
"§ 3. That it shall be the duty of the Commissioner of
Agriculture to prepare such rules and regulations as he may
deem necessary for the speedy and effectual suppression and
extirpation of said diseases, and to certify such rules and regulations to the executive authority of each State and Territory,
and invite said authorities to coiperate in the execution and
enforcement of this act. Whenever the plans and methods
of the Commissioner of Agriculture shall be accepted by any
State or Territory in which pleuro-pneumonia or other contagious, infectious or communicable disease is declared to
exist, or such State or Territory shall have adopted plans and
methods for the suppression and extirpation of said diseases,
and such plans and methods shall be accepted by the Commissioner of Agriculture, and whenever the Governor of a State
or other properly constituted authorities signify their readiness
to coperate for the extinction of any contagious, infectious
or communicable disease in conformity with the provisions of

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

this act, the Commissioner of Agriculture is hereby authorized
to expend so much of the money appropriated by this act as
may be necessary in such investigations, and in such disinfection and quarantine measures as may be necessary to prevent
the spread of the disease from one State or Territory into
another.
"§ 4. That in order to promote the exportation of live stock
from the United States the Commissioner of Agriculture shall
make special investigation as to the existence of pleuro-pneumonia, or any contagious, infectious or communicable disease,
along the dividing lines between the United States and foreign
countries, and along the lines of transportation from all parts
of the United States to ports from which live stock are exported, and make report of the results of such investigation to
the Secretary of the Treasury, who shall, from time to time,
establish such regulations concerning the exportation and
transportation of live stock as the results of said investigations
may require.
"§ 5. That to prevent the exportation from any port of the
United States to any port in a foreign country of live stock
affected with any contagious, infectious or communicable disease, and especially pleuro-pneumonia, the Secretary of the
Treasury be, and he is hereby, authorized to take such steps
and adopt such measures, not inconsistent with the provisions
of this act, as he may deem necessary.
"§ 6. That no railroad company within the United States,
or the owners or masters of any steam or sailing or other vessel or boat, shall receive for transportation or transport, from
one State or Territory to another, or from any State into the
District of Columbia, or from the District into any State, any
live stock affected with any contagious, infectious or communicable disease, and especially the disease known as pleuropneumonia; nor shall any person, company or corporation
deliver for such transportation to any railroad company, or
master or owner of any boat or vessel, any live stock, knowing
them to be affected with any contagious, infectious or communicable disease; nor shall any person, company or corporation drive on foot or transport in private conveyance from

MISSOURI, KANSAS & TEXAS RAILWAY v. IABER.

621

Opinion of the Court.

one State or Territory to another, or from any State into the
District of Columbia, or from the District into any State, any
live stock, knowing them to be affected with any contagious,
infectious or communicable disease, and especially the disease
known as pleuro-pneumonia: Provided, That the so-called
splenetic or Texas fever shall not be considered a contagious,
infectious or communicable disease within the meaning of sections four, five, six and seven of this act, as to cattle being
transported by rail to market for slaughter, when the same
are unloaded only to be -fed and watered in lots on the way
thereto.
"1§7. That it shall be the duty of the Commissioner of
Agriculture to notify, in writing, the proper officials or agents
of any railroad, steamboat or other transportation company
doing business in or through any infected locality, and by
publication, in such newspapers as he may select, of the
existence of said contagion; and any person or persons operating any such railroad, or master or owner of any boat or vessel, or owner or custodian of or person having control over
such cattle or other live stock within such infected district,
who shall knowingly violate the provisions of section six of
this act, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and, upon conviction, shall be punished by a fine not less than one hundred nor
more than five thousand dollars, or by imprisonment for not
more than one year, or by both such fine and imprisonment."
"1§10. That the sum of one hundred and fifty thousand
dollars, to be immediately available, or so much thereof as
may be necessary, is hereby appropriated, out of any moneys
in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, to carry into
effect the provisions of this act."
1. The answer of the railway company as well as its requests
for instructions, and the opinion of the Supreme Court of the
State, show that the company contended throughout this litigation that legislation by Congress and the regulations prescribed by the Secretary of Agriculture in execution of the
Animal Industry Act, furnished a complete defence to all
claims for damages asserted in this action. That contention

OCTOBER TERMI,

1897.

Opinion of the Court.

was overruled by the trial court, as well as by the Supreme
Court of the State. If the contention of the railway company
had been sustained, the verdict and judgment must have been
in its favor without reference to any other question in the case.
In other words, the state court could not properly have disposed of the case without deciding the Federal question raised
by the company. This court therefore has jurisdiction to inquire whether the Supreme Court of Kansas erred in holding
that the legislation of Congress and the regulations of the
Secretary of the InteriorI gave to the railway company the
right, privilege and immunity specially set up and claimed by
it. The motion to dismiss for want of jurisdiction in this
court is consequently overruled. Willson v. Black Bird Creek
Mli~arsh Co., 2 Pet. 245, 251 ; Chicago Life Ins. Co v. ]veedles,
113 U. S. 574, 579; Sayward v. -Denny, 158 U. S. 180, 184:;
Chicago, Burlington& Quincy Railroadv. Chicago, 166 U. S.
226, 232.
2. If sections 16 and 17 of the Kansas act of 1885, as
amended in 1891, are not inconsistent with the legislation of
Congress, no question can be raised as to other provisions of
the Kansas statutes. The sixteenth section, we have seen,
provides that any person or persons, driving, shipping or transporting, or causing to be driven, shipped or transported, into
or through any county in that State, cattle liable to impart or
capable of communicating Texas, splenic or Spanish fever to
any domestic cattle of Kansas, shall be liable in a civil action
to any person injured thereby for all damages sustained by
reason of the communication of such fever to his cattle; while
the seventeenth section makes the bringing into the State,
from south of the 37th parallel of north latitude, of cattle
alleged to have communicated Texas, splenic or Spanish fever
'By the act approved February 9, 1889, 25 Stat. 659, c. 122, the Department of Agriculture was made an Executive Department. And by the act
of March 2, 1889, 25 Stat. 835, 840, c. 373, the authority granted to the Commissioner of Agriculture by the act of May 29, 1884, 23 Stat. 31, establishing the Bureau of Animal Industry, and by the provision of the appropriation
act for the Agricultural Department, approved July 18, 1888, relating to
that Bureau, was vested in the Secretary of Agriculture. The regulations
above referred to were issued by Secretary Rusk, February 26, 1892.

MISSOUT I, KANSAS & TEXAS RAILWAY v. HABER.

623

Opinion of the Court.

to domestic cattle, primafacie evidence that such cattle were,
between February 1st and December 1st in any year, capable
of communicating that disease, and that the owner or person
in charge of such cattle had full knowledge and notice thereof.
May not these statutory provisions stand without obstructing or embarrassing the execution of the act of Congress?
This question must of course be determined with reference to
the settled rule that a statute enacted in execution of a reserved
power of the State is not to be regarded as inconsistent with
an act of Congress passed in the execution of a clear power
under the Constitution, unless the repugnance or conflict is so
direct and positive that the two acts cannot be reconciled or
stand together. Sinnot v. Davenport, 22 How. 227, 243.
We have seen that the first section, of the Animal Industry
Act provided for an investigation as to the condition of the
domestic animals of the United States, their protection and
use, the causes of contagious, infectious and communicable
diseases among them, and the means for the prevention and
cure of such diseases. The second section provided for an
examination as to the best methods of treating, transporting
and caring for animals and the means to be adopted for the
suppression and extirpation of contagious pleuro-pneumonia, and
to guard against the spreading of other dangerous, contagious,
infectious and communicable diseases. If any State was ready
to cobperate with the Commissioner of Agriculture, then, by
the third section, that officer was authorized to use the money
appropriated by Congress in such investigations and in such
disinfection and quarantine measures as were necessary "to
prevent the spread of the disease from one State or Territory
into another." While the States were invited to co6perate
with the General Government in the execution and enforcement of the act, whatever power they had to protect their
domestic cattle against such diseases was left untouched and
unimpaired by the act of Congress.
The act of Congress did not assume to give any corporation,
company or person the affirmative right to transport from one
State to another State cattle that were liable to impart or
capable of communicating contagious, infectious or communi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

cable diseases. On the contrary, it was made a misdemeanor
to deliver for transportation or to transport or drive from one
State to another, cattle known to be affected with contagious,
infectious or communicable diseases. Whether a corporation transporting, or the person causing to be transported
from one State to another cattle of the class specified in
the Kansas statute, should be liable in a civil action for
any damages sustained by the owners of domestic cattle by
reason of the introduction into their State of such diseased

cattle, is a subject about which the Animal Industry Act did
not make any provision.

That act does not declare that

the regulations established by the Department of Agriculture should have the effect to exempt from civil liability one
who, but for such regulations, would have been liable either
under the general principles of law or under some state enactment for damages arising out of the introduction into that
State of cattle so affected. And, as will be seen from the
regulations prescribed by the Secretary of Agriculture, that
officer did not assume to give protection to any one against
such liability.
By those regulations the Secretary gave notice to the
"managers and agents of railroad and transportation companies of the United States, stockmen and others" that "a contagious and infectious disease known as splenetic or Southern
fever exists among cattle" within certain parts of the United
States, the outer line of which area or boundary was fully
defined by that officer. The same regulations provided that
from the 1st day of March to the 1st day of December, 1892,
no cattle should be transported from any part of the country
included in that area or boundary to any part of the United
States north or west of the described line except by rail for
immediate slaughter, and when so transported certain directions were to be observed in handling and caring for them.
The regulations made provision for moving cattle from specified parts of Tennessee in accordance with the rules established by the authority of that State. Rules were also
prescribed for moving cattle from named counties in Texas
to the States of Colorado, Wyoming and Montana, "in ac-

MISSOURI, KANSAS & TEXAS RAILWAY v. HABER.

625

Opinion of the Court.
cordance with the regulations made by said States for the
admission of Southern cattle thereto."
The cattle in question were originally received by the
Texas and Pacific Railroad at Midland, Texas, outside of but
near to the boundary of the "infected district" as defined by
the Secretary of Agriculture. They were received by the
defendant company at Dennison, Texas, as a connecting
carrier, in the same cars in which they were loaded, and the
entire route to the southern boundary line of Kansas was
through that district. It may be that in the transportation
of the cattle in question from Pecos County, Texas, through
the infected district, all the regulations prescribed by the
Secretary were observed. But that fact does not show that
Congress intended or assumed to exempt any one complying
with those regulations from liability to the owners of domestic
cattle to which were communicated the contagious disease
with which the cattle brought into the State were affected.
The controlling object of the regulations was to prevent the
spreading from one State to another of the cattle disease in
question, not to deprive any one of the right to recover damages for injury inflicted upon his domestic cattle by reason
of their being brought into contact with diseased cattle.
It is said that the statute of Kansas giving a right of action
for damages is, in itself, a regulation of commerce among the
States, and, therefore, inconsistent with the power of Congress
to regulate such commerce. But that statute is not, within
the meaning of the Constitution, nor in any just sense, a regulation of commerce among the States. It cannot be supposed
to have been so intended, even if its validity were to depend
upon the intent with which it was enacted. It did nothing
more than declare as a rule of civil liability in Kansas, that
any one driving, shipping or transporting or causing to be
driven, shipped or transported into or through any county in
that State, cattle liable to impart or capable of communicating
Texas, splenic or Spanish fever to domestic cattle, should be
responsible in damages to -any persons injuredl thereby. In
fact, the state law is in aid of the objects which Congress had
in view when it passed the Animal Industry Act. It was
VOL. cLXX--40

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

passed in execution of a power with which the State did not
part when entering the Union, namely, the power to protect.
the people in the enjoyment of their rights of property, and
to provide for the redress of wrongs within its limits. We
must not be understood as saying that this power may be so
exerted as to defeat or burden the exercise of any power
granted to Congress. On the contrary, a state statute, although
enacted in pursuance of a power not surrendered to the General Government, must in the execution of its provisions
yield in case of conflict to a statute constitutionally enacted
under authority conferred upon Congress; and this, as was
said by Mr. Justice Nelson, speaking for the court in Sinnot
v. .Davenport, above cited, "without regard to the source of
power whence the state legislature derived its enactment."
This results, as was said by Chief Justice Marshall in Gibbons
v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 210, as well from the nature of the
Government as from the words of the Constitution. In that
case, the argument was pressed that if a law passed by a State
in the exercise of its acknowledged sovereignty comes into
conflict with a law passed by Congress in pursuance of the
Constitution, they affect the subject and each other like "equal
opposing powers." Touching that view, the Chief Justice
said: "But the framers of our Constitution foresaw this state
of things, and provided for it, by declaring the supremacy not
only of itself, but of the laws made in pursuance of it. The
nullity of any act, inconsistent with the Constitution, is produced by the declaration that the Constitution is the supreme
law. The appropriate application of that part of the clause
which confers the same supremacy on laws and treaties, is to
such acts of the state legislatures as do not transcend their
powers, but, though enacted in the execution of acknowledged
state powers, interfere with, or are contrary to the laws of
Congress, made in pursuance of the Constitution, or some
treaty made under the authority of the United States. In
every such case, the act of Congress, or the treaty, is supreme;
and the law of the State, though 'enacted in the exercise of
powers not controverted, must yield to it."
Nor is the statute of Kansas to be deemed a regulation of

MISSOURI, KANSAS & TEXAS RAILWAY v. HABER.

627

Opinion of the Court.

commerce among the States, simply because it may incidentally or indirectly affect such commerce. Hennington v.
Georgia, 163 U. S. 299, 317; New York, NAew Haven &
-artford Railroad v. New York, 165 U. S. 628, 631;
Chicago, .Milwaukee & St. Paul Railway v. Solan, 169 U. S.
133; Richmond & Alleghany Railroad v. Patterson Tobacco
Co., 169 U. S. 311, and authorities cited in each case. Although the power of Congress to regulate commerce among
the States, and the power of the States to regulate their
purely domestic affairs, are distinct powers, which, in their
application, may at times bear upon the same subject, no
collision that would disturb the harmony of the National and
state governments or produce any conflict between the two
governments in the exercise of their respective powers need
occur, unless the National Government, acting within the
limits of its constitutional authority, takes under its immediate control and exclusive supervision the entire subject to
which the state legislation may refer. "The same bale of
goods," Mlr. Justice Johnson well said in his concurring opinion in Gibbons v. Ogden, "the same cask of provisions, or
the same ship, that may be the subject of commercial regulations, may also be the vehicle, of disease:. And the health
laws that require them to be stopped and ventilated are no
more intended as regulations on commerce than the laws
which permit their importation are intended to inoculate
the community with disease. Their different purposes mark
the distinction between the powers brought into action; and
while frankly exercised, they can produce no serious collision." 9 Wheat. 235. It is, therefore, a mistake to say that
the Kansas statute so far as it gives a right of action for injuries arising from disease communicated to domestic cattle
by cattle of a particular kind brought into the State comes
into conflict with any regulation established under the authority of Congress, to prevent the spread of contagious or
infectious diseases from one State to another. That statute,
we repeat, only embodies a rule of civil, conduct prescribed
by a State whose government is competent to regulate-in
subordination always to the supreme law of the land and its

OCTOBER TER , -1897.
Opinion of the Court.

own fundamental law -the relative rights and obligations of
all within its jurisdiction. Neither corporations nor individuals are entitled, by force alone of the Constitution of the
United States and without liability for injuries resulting therefrom to others, to bring into one State from another State
cattle liable to impart or capable of communicating disease
to domestic cattle. The contrary cannot be affirmed under
any sound interpretation of the Constitution. This court
while sustaining the power of Congress to regulate commerce
among the States has steadily adhered to the principle that
the States possess, because they have never surrendered, the
power to protect the public health, the public morals, and the
public safety, by any legislation appropriate to that end which
does not encroach upon rights guaranteed by the National Constitution, nor come in conflict with acts of Congress passed in
pursuance of that instrument. Although the powers of a State
must in their exercise give way to a power exerted by Congress
under the Constitution, it has never been adjudged that that instrument by its own force gives any one the right to introduce
into a State, against its will, cattle so affected with disease
that their presence in the State will be dangerous to domestic
cattle.
This principle is illustrated in many adjudged cases. In
.RailroadCo. v. ]usen, 95 U. S.465, 471, 473,- a case much
relied on by the plaintiff in error, - this court held to be unconstitutional a statute of Missouri declaring that no Texas,
Mexican or Indian cattle, not kept the entire previous winter
in that State, should be driven or otherwise conveyed into or
remain in any county in that State between the first day of
March and the first day of November in each year. The
statute contained a proviso to the effect "that when such
cattle shall come across the line of this State, loaded upon a
railroad car or steamboat, and shall pass through this State
without being unloaded, such shall not be construed as prohibited by this act; but the railroad company or owners of a
steamboat performing such transportation shall be responsible
for all damages which may result from the disease called the
Spanish or Texas fever, should the same occur along the line

MISSOURI, KANSAS & TEXAS RAILWAY v. HtABER.

629

Opinion of the Court.

of such transportation; and the existence of such disease
along such route shall be prima facie evidence that such
disease has been communicated by such transportation." It
also provided : "If any person or persons shall bring into this
State any Texas, Mexican or Indian cattle, in violation of the
first section of this act, he or they shall be liable, in all cases,
for all damages sustained on account of disease communicated
by said cattle." In that case, the court cited with approval
the language of the Supreme Court of Vermont in Thorpe v.
Rutland & Burlington. Railroad,27 Vermont, 140, in which
it was said that, by the general police power of a State,
"persons and property are subjected to all kinds of restraints
and burdens, in order to secure the general comfort, health
and prosperity of the State; of the perfect right of the legislature to do which no question ever was,-or upon acknowledged general principles ever can be made, so far as natural
persons are concerned." Under that power, this court said,
that while a State by legislation may not invade the domain
of the N~ational Government, it may exclude from its limits
convicts, paupers, idiots and lunatics, persons likely to become
a public charge, as well as persons affected by contagious or
infectious diseases- adding, that the same principle "would
justify the exclusion of property dangerous to the property of
citizens of the State, for example, animals having contagious
or infectious diseases." Such exertions of power by a State,
it was said, were self-defensive. In affirming the invalidity
of state legislation professing to be an exercise of police
powers for protection against evils from abroad, but which
was beyond the necessity for its exercise, and interfered with
the rights and powers of the Federal Government, the court,
speaking by Mr. Justice Strong, said, p. 473: "Tried by this
rule, the statute of Missouri is a plain intrusion upon the exclusive domain of Congress. It is not a quarantine law. It
is not an inspection law. It says to all natural persons and
to all transportation companies, ' You shall not bring into the
State any Texas cattle or any Mexican cattle, or Indian cattle
between March 1st and December 1st in any year, no matter
whether they are free from disease or not, no matter whether

OCTOBER TERIf, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

they may do an injury to the inhabitants of the State or not;
and if you do bring them in, even for the purpose of carrying
them through the State without unloading them, you shall be
subject to extraordinary liabilities.' Such a statute, we do
not doubt, it is beyond the power of a State to enact. To
hold otherwise would be to ignore one of the leading objects
which the Constitution of the United States was designed to
secure."
The decision in that case was placed distinctly on the
ground that although the State could prevent persons and
animals suffering under contagious or infectious diseases, or
convicts, etc., from entering the State, it could not, under the
cover of exerting its police powers, substantially prohibit or
burden either foreign or interstate commerce, and the Alis,souri statute was held to be unconstitutional because it went
beyond the necessities of the case, having been so drawn as to
exclude all Texas, Mexican or Indian cattle from the State,
(except cattle to be transported across and out of the State,)
whether free from disease or not, or whether they would or
would not do injury to the inhabitants of the State.
No such criticism can be made of the statute of Kansas.
It does not prohibit the bringing into the State of all Texas
cattle. It does not in any true sense prohibit or burden any
commerce among the States specifically authorized by Congress ; but, for purposes of self-protection only and in the exercise of its inherent power to protect the property of its people,
declared that any corporation or person bringing into the State
or driving into or through any county of the State cattre liable
to impart or capable of communicating Texas, splenic or Spanish fever to domestic cattle, should be responsible in damages
to any one to whose cattle that disease was communicated by
the cattle so brought into the State.
The general views we have expressed are sustained by
Iimmish v. Ball, 129 U. S. 217, 220, 222. That case involved
the validity of section 4059 of the Iowa Code providing, in
respect of Texas cattle that had not been wintered at least
one winter north of the southern boundary of Missouri or
Kansas, that "if any person now or hereafter has in his pos-

MISSOURI, KANSAS & TEXAS RAILWAY v. HABER.

631

Opinion of the Court.

session, in this State, any such Texas cattle, he shall be liable
for any damages that may accrue from allowing said cattle to
run at large, and thereby spreading the disease among other
cattle known as the Texas fever, and shall be punished as is
prescribed in the preceding section." It was contended that
that section was in conflict with the power of Congress to
regulate commerce among the States, as well as with section
2 of Article 4 of the Constitution of the United States relating
to the privileges and immunities of citizens of the several
States. The court stated that the statute of Iowa was based
upon the notorious fact that cattle which were brought during
the spring and summer months from Texas and Arkansas and
from the Indian Territory, were often affected with what is
known as Texas fever, and that all danger of infection therefrom could be removed by cold weather, such as was usual in
the country north of the southern boundary bf Missouri and
Kansas. Speaking by Mr. Justice Field, it said: "Section
4059, with which we are concerned, provides that any person
who has in his possession in the State of Iowa any Texas cattle which have not been wintered north shall be liable for any
damages that may accrue from allowing such cattle to run at
large and thereby spread the disease. We are unable to appreciate the force of the objection that such legislation is in conflict with the paramount authority of Congress to regulate
interstate commerce. We do not see that it has anything to
do with that commerce; it is only levelled against allowing
diseased Texas cattle held within the State to run at large."
In reference to the other objection made to the act, the court
said: "There is no denial of any rights and privileges to citizens of other States which are accorded to citizens of Iowa.
No one can allow diseased cattle to run at large in Iowa without being held responsible for the damages caused by the
spread of the disease thereby; and the clause of the Constitution declaring that the citizens of each State 'shall be entitled
to all privileges and immunities of citizens in the several States
does not give non-resident citizens of Iowa any greater privileges and immunities in that State than her own citizens there
enjoy. So far as liability is concerned for the act mentioned,

OCTOBER TER-,

1897.

Opinion of the Court.

citizens of other States and citizens of Iowa stand upon the
same footing."
The case of Sheroc v. Alling, 93 U. S. 99, 103, well illustrates the principle which, we think, must control the present
case. That was an action for damages under a statute of
Indiana, giving a right of action in favor of the personal
representative of one whose death was caused by the wrongful act or omission of another, whenever the latter, if he had
lived, could sue for an injury for the same act or omission.
In that case the death, on account of which the suit was
brought, occurred by reason of a collision between two steamboats navigating the Ohio River. It appears from the report
of the case that one of the grounds of defence was that at the
time of the alleged injuries the colliding boats were engaged
in carrying on interstate commerce under the laws of the
United States, and that the defendants, as their owners, were
not liable for injuries occurring in navigation through the
carelessness of their officers, except as prescribed by Congress; and that the acts of Congress did not cover the liability
asserted by the plaintiff under the statute of Indiana. The
act of Congress referred to was that of March 30, 1852, 10
Stat. 61, c. 106, providing for the better security of the lives
of passengers on board of vessels propelled in whole or in part
by steam. After referring to some of the principal cases in
which state enactments had been held void for interfering
with the freedom of interstate commerce, the court said that
the Indiana statute "imposes no tax, prescribes no duty, and
in no respect interferes with any regulations for the navigation and use of vessels. It only declares a general principle
respecting the liability of all persons within the jurisdiction
of the State for torts resulting in the death of parties injured.
And in the application of the principle it makes no difference
where the injury complained of occurred in the State, whether
,on land or ou" water. General legislation of this kind, prescribing the liabilities or duties of citizens of a State, without
distinction as to pursuit or calling, is not open to any valid
objection because it may affect persons engaged in foreign or
interstate commerce. Objection might with equal propriety

MISSOURI, KTNSAS & TEXAS RAILWAY v. HABER.

633

Opinion of the Court.

be urged against legislation prescribing the form in which
contracts shall be authenticated, or property descend or be
distributed on the death of its owner, because applicable to
contracts or estates of persons engaged in such commerce.
In conferring upon Congress the regulation of commerce it
was never intended to cut the State off from legislating on
all subjects relating to the health, life and safety of their citizens, though the legislation might indirectly affect the commerce of the country. Legislation, in a great variety of
ways, may affect commerce and persons engaged in it without constituting a regulation of it, within the meaning of the
Constitution." Again, in the same case: "Until Congress,
therefore, makes some regulation touching the liability of
parties for marine torts resulting in the death of the persons
injured, we are of opinion that the statute of Indiana applies,
giving a right of action in such cases to the personal representatives of the deceased, and that, as thus applied, it constitutes no encroachment upon the commercial power of Congress."
In Pattersonv. Eentucky, 97 U. S. 501, 505, this court said
that "the States may by police regulations protect their people against the introduction within their respective limits of
infected merchandise," and by like regulations "exclude from
their midst, not only convicts, paupers, idiots, lunatics and
persons likely to become a public charge, but animals having
contagious diseases."
So it has been held that in the absence of legislation by
Congress on the subject, a State may prescribe, as a rule of
civil conduct, that engineers on railroad trains engaged in the
transportation of passengers and freight, including interstate
trains,- shall undergo an examination by a state board as to
their qualifications, before becoming entitled to operate locomotive engines within such State, and that persons employed
on railways shall be subjected to like examination with respect
to their power of vision. Smith v. Alabama, 124 U. S. 465,
482; Yashville &c. Railway v. Alaama, 128 U. S. 96, 101.
In New York, New RHaven & Hlartford Railroadv. Ivew
York, 165 U. S. 62S, 633, it was contended that section 5258

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

of the Revised Statutes, relating to transportation of persons
and property from one State to another State, so far covered
the whole subject of interstate transportation as to render
inapplicable to interstate carriers a statute of New York regulating the heating of steam passenger cars, and directing
guards and guard posts to be placed on railroad bridges and
trestles. But this court said that the authority conferred by
Congress "upon railroad companies engaged in commerce
among the States, whatever may be the extent of such authority, does not interfere in any degree with the passage by the
state of laws having for their object the personal security of
passengers while travelling, within their respective limits, from
one State to another on cars propelled by steam."
In Western Union Tel. Co. v. James, 162 U. S. 650, 660,
this court sustained as valid a statute of Georgia requiring
every telegraph company, with a line of wires wholly or
partly within that State, to receive dispatches, and, on payment of the usual charges, to transmit or deliver them with
due diligence, under a penalty of one hundred dollars. It was
contended in that case, as to telegraph messages from points
outside to points inside the State, that the local statute was a
regulation of interstate commerce, and, therefore, void. That
contention was overruled, the court saying: "It would not
unfavorably affect or embarrass it in the course of its employment, and hence until Congress speaks upon the subject, it
would seem that such a statute must be valid. It is the duty
of a telegraph company which receives a message for transmission, directed to an individual at one of its stations, to
deliver that message to the person to whom it is addressed,
with reasonable diligence and in good faith. That is a part
of its contract, implied by taking the message and receiving
payment therefor. The statute in question is of a nature that
is in aid of the performance of a duty of the company that
would exist in the absence of any such statute, and it is in
nowise obstructive of its duty as a telegraph company. It
imposes a penalty for the purpose of enforcing this general
duty of the company. The direction that the delivery of the
message shall be made with impartiality and in good faith

MISSOUIRI, KANSAS & TEXAS RAILWAY v. HABER.

635

Opinion of the Court.

and with due diligence is not an addition to the duty which
it would owe in the absence of such a statute. Can it be said
that the imposition of a penalty for the violation of a duty
which the company owed by the general law of the land is a
regulation of or an obstruction to interstate commerce within
the meaning of that clause of the Federal Constitution under
discussion? We think not."
These cases all proceed upon the ground that the regulation
of the enjoyment of the relative rights, and the performance
of the duties, of all persons within the jurisdiction of a State
belong primarily to such State under its reserved power to
provide for the safety of all persons and property within its
limits; and that even if the subject of such regulations be one
that may be taken under the exclusive control of Congress,
and be reached by national legislation, any action taken by
the State upon that subject that does not directly interfere
with rights secured by the Constitution of the United States
or by some valid act of Congress, must be respected until
Congress intervenes.
It is suggested that the statute is so drawn that the railway
company would be liable; even if it acted in good faith, and
had no reason to believe, after the exercise of the utmost
diligence, that the cattle it received for transportation were
liable to impart or were capable of communicating the fever
named in the statute. If the statute were thus interpreted,
it might be - th6ugh upon that point we express no opinion
-that
it would be so oppressive in its necessary operation as
to be deemed a burden upon the transportation of all cattle
from Texas, whether diseased or not, and for that reason be
liable to the same objection urged against the statute involved
in Railroad Co. v. Husen. But we do not so construe the
statute. Its sixteenth section must be interpreted in connection with the seventeenth section. The latter, as we have
stated, declares that in the trial of any civil action, under the
statute, proof that the cattle were brought into the State
from south of the thirty-seventh parallel of north latitude the southern boundary line of Kansas -should be.primafacie
evidence that they were, between the first day of February

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

and the first day of December, capable of communicating and
liable to impart Texas, splenic or Spanish fever, and that "the
owner or owners, or person or persons, in charge of such cattle
had full knowledge or notice thereof." As the State is competent to protect its domestic cattle against disease that may
be communicated by cattle coming from beyond its limits,
this rule of evidence cannot be regarded as inconsistent with
any right secured by the National Constitution or as obstructing commerce among the States; for the rule finds its justification in the fact, heretofore recognized by this court, and
substantially by the act of Congress, that Texas cattle, when
brought northward during the spring and summer months,
often carry the germs of fever, or are often, though not always,
infected with fever that may be communicated by them to
domestic cattle. That rule as prescribed implies that damages
shall not be recovered if, from all the evidence, it appears that
the defendant had no knowledge or notice that the cattle were
of the kind forbidden by the statute to be brought into the
State. This was the interpretation placed upon the statute
by the plaintiff. His petition alleges that before the cattle in
question were shipped, transported and driven as stated, the
defendants had knowledge, and were put upon inquiry, and
had reason to know, that "said Texas cattle so kept, shipped,
transported and driven were of a kind capable of communicating and liable to communicate and impart said disease to the
domestic cattle of this State and to the aforesaid cattle of the
plaintiff." And under this construction of the statute the case
was tried. The trial court, among other things, instructed
the jury: "The mere fact that the cattle of the plaintiff or
those of any of the cross-petitioning defendants became sick
and died from this disease imparted to them by cattle transported by the said defendant into Lyon or Chase counties is
not sufficient to warrant a finding against said defendant railway company. You must find from the evidence, first, that
Texas cattle were, in fact, brought into this State; of this
there is no denial, and you can consider that fact as established; second, that the cattle of the plaintiff and each of the
cross-petitioning defendants who seek to recover herein against

MISSOURI, KANSAS & TEXAS RAILWAY v. iABER.

637

Opinion of the Court.

said railway, because of the loss of cattle, became infected
and died because of the disease imparted to them by such
Texas cattle, and that such disease was Texas, splenic or
Spanish fever; and, third, that the officers, employ~s or
agents of the railway company defendant had knowledge
that such Texas cattle transported by it to this State were
liable to impart such disease to the native cattle of this State,
or that they ought by the exercise of diligence and care to
have known of the dangerous character of these cattle, and
that they would or were liable to impart said disease to the
native cattle of this State." We do not understand from the
opinion of the Supreme Court of the State that it disagreed
with this interpretation of the statute.
3. In support of the contention that national legislation
leaves no room for state enactments relating to the bringing
of diseased cattle into one State from another State, the railway company refers to the act of Congress, approved March
3, 1891, 26 Stat. 104, 1049, c. 544, appropriating five hundred
thousand dollars for carrying out the provisions of the act for
establishing the Bureau of Animal Industry, which authorized
the Secretary of Agriculture to use any part of that sum he
might deem necessary or expedient, and in such manner as
he might think best, to prevent the spread of pleuro-pueumonia and other diseases of animals, and for this purpose to employ as many persons as he might deem necessary, and to
expend any part of that sum in the purchase and destruction
of diseased or exposed animals and the quarantine of the same,
whenever in his judgment it is essential to prevent the spread
of pleuro-pneumonia or other diseases of animals from one
State into another. This contention is disposed of by what
has been already said.
4. In support of the same contention, the company refers
to section 5258 of the Revised Statutes of the United States,
(brought forward from the act of June 15, 1866, 14 Stat. 66,
c. 124,) which authorizes every railroad compariy in the
United States, operated by steam, its successors and assigns,
"to carry upon and over its road, boats, bridges and ferries
all passengers, troops, Government supplies, mails, freight

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

and property on their way from any State to another State,
and to receive compensation therefor, and to connect with
roads of other States so as to form continuous lines for the
transportation of the same to the place of destination." It is
scarcely necessary to say that an act of Congress that does
no more than give authority to railroad companies to carry
"freight and property" over their respective roads from one
State to another State, will not authorize a railroad company
to carry into a State cattle known, or which by due diligence
may be known, to be in such a condition as to impart or communicate disease to the domestic cattle of such State. A
railroad company carrying diseased cattle into a State cannot
claim the protection of section 5258, any more than it could
when carrying into a State rags known, or which by proper
diligence could have been known, to be infected with yellow
fever. If the carrier takes diseased cattle into a State, it
does so subject for any injury thereby done to domestic cattle
to such liability as may arise under any law of the State that
does not go beyond the necessities of the case and burden or
prohibit interstate commerce. A statute prescribing as a rule
of civil conduct that a person or corporation shall not bring
into the State cattle known, or which by proper diligence
could be known, to be capable of communicating disease to
domestic cattle, cannot be regarded as beyond the necessities
of the case, nor as interfering with any right intended to be
given or recognized by section 5258 of the Revised Statutes.
Applying the principles settled in prior cases to the case
before us, it is clear that a railroad company is not in any
just sense hindered or obstructed by the statute of Kansas in
the exercise of any privilege given or authority conferred by
section 5258 of the Revised Statutes. This must be so, unless
the company should be held to be entitled, of right, to carry
into a State from another State, as freight or property, cattle
liable to impart or capable of communicating disease, and of
whose condition at the time it had knowledge, or could have
had knowledge by the exercise of reasonable diligence. We
cannot so hold. And we adjudge that if Congress could authorize the carrying of such cattle from one State into another

MISSOURI, KANSAS & TEXAS RAILWAY v. HABER.

639

Dissenting Opinion: Brewer, J.

State, and by legislation protect the carrier against all suits
for damages arising therefrom, it has not done so, nor has it
enacted any statute that prevents a State from prescribing
such a rule of civil conduct as that found in the statute of
Kansas.
5. Much was said at the bar about the finding of the jury
being against the evidence. We cannot enter upon such an
inquiry. The facts must be taken as found by the jury, and
this court can only consider whether the statute, as interpreted
to the jury, was in violation of the Federal Constitution. Chicago, Burlington & Quincy Railroad v. Chicago, 166 U. S.
226, 242, 246.
Perceiving no error in the record in respect of any question
of a Federal nature, the judgment of the Supreme Court of
Kansas is

Aj4frmed.
Mpt.

JUSTICE BREWER

dissenting.

I am unable to concur in the opinion filed in this case. The
statute provides that a carrier bringing into the State cattle
which are capable of communicating Texas, splenic or Spanish
fever to domestic cattle shall be liable to any persons injured
thereby for all damages they may sustain by reason of the
communication of said fever. This liability is not limited to
the injury which may be done by the cattle while in the possession of the carrier, but extends to that which may be done
at any time thereafter in whosesoever possession they may be.
And in this particular case it is found by the jury that the
fever was communicated and the injury done after the cattle had passed out of the custody of the carrier and into the
possession of other persons. The statute also provides that
proof that the cattle were brought into Kansas from territory south of the Kansas state line shall be prima facie
evidence that they were capable of communicating the fever,
and that the carrier had knowledge of that fact.
I am not disposed to belittle this question, or the difficulties
which attend the effort to prevent a communication of Texas
fever and the injuries which result therefrom. On the con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Dissenting Opinion: Brewer, J.

trary, I fully appreciate the importance of securing to all stock
owners in Kansas and elsewhere the fullest protection against
this so fatal disease, and believe that stringent measures may
properly be adopted to accomplish this result. I differ with
my brethren only as to the authority by which such measures
should be enacted, and as to the validity of the legislation before us. It is conceded in the opinion of the majority that
Congress has full control over interstate commerce, and that
it is the only authority by which that commerce can be regulated. On the other hand, it is equally clear, as pointed out,
that the States may make many police restrictions and provisions which, while indirectly affecting interstate commerce, do
not directly regulate it, and the question is whether this particular statute comes within the category of such police rngulations.
It must be premised that Southern cattle which are capable
of communicating this disease are not necessarily themselves
diseased, or their meat unfit for consumption. This is not a
mere conjecture, but a well-established fact. In the iReport of
the Bureau of Animal Industry, for the years 1891 and 1892,
which contains the results of investigations into the nature,
cause and prevention of cattle fever, it is said, on pages 266
and 267: "The presence of the parasite in Southern cattle
does not seem to materially affect their health, although it
may maintain a more or less constant breaking up of the red
corpuscles on a small scale, which would necessarily tax certain
vital organs....
From a practical ecQnomic standpoint
we must maintain that Southern cattle may be healthy and
yet be the cause of Texas fever;" and in the final summing
up of the conclusions of the investigators, on page 290, it is
further stated: "Cattle from the permanently infected territory, though otherwise healthy, carry the microparasite of
Texas fever in their blood."
And in the regulations concerning cattle transportation,
promulgated by the United States Department of Agriculture
on February 26, 1892, as appears from the record in this case,
as also in similar regulations issued by the same Department
on December 15, 1897, it is provided that within certain speci-

MISSOURI, K.ANSAS & TEXAS RAILWAY v. HABER.

641

Dissenting Opinion: Brewer, 0.

fled dates no cattle are to be transported froni below the Federal quarantine line except by rail or boat for immediate
slaughter. These cattle are being constantly forwarded by
the thousands to the packing houses of this country, and when
butchered their meat is shipped all over the world and used
with impunity. Statistics found in the cases of Cotting v.
.Kansas City Stockyards Company and Hopkins v. United
States, now pending in this court, show that in the year 1896
(and that is but a sample of other years) of something over
1,700,000 head of cattle shipped to the Kansas City stockyards,
more than 500,000 came from the territory proscribed by the
Kansas statute, and that of these cattle 60 per cent or more
were sold to the packing houses there situate for immediate
slaughter.
It appears from the report above referred to, that this fever
is generally disseminated by means of a tick, technically called
boophilus bovis, though the jury in this case, in answer to
specific questions, found that the fever was communicable
otherwise than in that way. The presence of ticks upon the
cattle does not necessarily indicate disease. They are purely
external, like fleas on a dog, and do not prove that the body
is in an unhealthy condition. It may be a curious fact, the
cause of which is not yet fully explained, that these cattle
range in the South without developing in themselves or communicating to others this Texas fever, while when brought.
into the temperate zone they seem to communicate it freely
and in a most dangerous form. Whatever may be the explanation of this fact does not abridge its significance. Hence
it is that these Southern cattle, although they may have ticks.
upon them, and thus be liable to communicate the disease to,
Northern cattle, may be entirely free from any disease, their
meat a perfectly healthy article of food, and they themselves.
legitimate subjects of commerce. If they are, when brought
into the North, pastured at a distance from native cattle, and
the latter are not thereafter permitted to range in the field
in which the former have been kept, the disease will not be
communicated, the Southern cattle may safely be fattened,.
and prepared for market and use. It is only when the native
VOL. cLrXx-41

OCTOBER TERI,

1897.

Dissenting Opinion: Brewer, J.

cattle are permitted to pasture in or near the grounds in which
the Southern cattle are or have recently been kept that injury
results. The case presented, therefore, is not that of legislation to prevent importation of diseased meat- that which in
something which,
itself is unhealthy and unfit for use -but
if improperly or carelessly handled, may communicate disease
and do injury. The very phraseology of the statute indicates
this. It does not name diseased cattle, but only those liable
to communicate disease. If other Northern States follow with
like legislation commerce between the two sections of the
country in this most important product of portions of the
South will be practically interrupted.
The cases referred to in the opinion of the majority in which
the police power of the State has been sustained were cases in
which the restrictions or regulations only indirectly affected
interstate commerce. As, for instance, requiring an engineer
to take out a state license, Smith v. Alabama, 124 U. S. 465;
or to be free from and submit to an examination for color
blindness, .Nashville & St. Louis Railway v. Alabama, 128
U. S. 96; prescribing the mode of heating passenger cars, iYew
York, .BNew -Haven & 1tar~ford Railroad v. NYew York, 165
U. S. 628; requiring the prompt delivery of telegraphic messages under condition of a penalty, Western Union Telegrayh
v. James, 162 U. S. 650. Nothing of that kind is prescribed
-by this statute. No inspection is provided fdr by the State;
none required of the carrier; no duty imposed in respect to
the handling and care of the cattle while in its possession. It
'simply prescribes the conditions upon which the carrier may
,bring cattle into the State, to wit, liability not merely for injury
'which its own improper handling may cause, but for injury
-which may result at any time thereafter from any future
-improper handling by the consignee or subsequent party into
,whese custody the cattle may pass. It seems to me, beyond
'any peradventure, that this is legislation directly regulating
commerce between the States, and, as such, is within the sole
dominion of Congress. It materially affects the conduct of
the carrier outside of the limits of the State. And that is one
of the tests of invalidity. Hilall v. De Cuir, 95 U. S. 485, 488;

MISSOURI, KANSAS & TEXAS RAIL-VAY v. HABER.

643

Dissenting Opinion: Brewer, J.

Bowman v. Chicago . 5rorthwestern Railway, 125 U. S. 465,
486. Suppose cattle are presented to a carrier in Texas for
shipment to Kansas, can it properly refuse to receive and
transmit? Can it plead the Kansas statute in defence of its ,
duty as a common carrier? If it says that the cattle have
ticks upon them and therefore are liable to communicate Texas
fever, or if not having ticks upon them may otherwise (as
shown by the verdict of this jury) communicate the disease,
the shipper may reply that he intends them for immediate
slaughter, and that they are a legitimate article of commerce.
But that will not relieve the carrier. The liability imposed
by the Kansas statute does not depend upon the intent with
which the cattle are shipped into the State; and having
delivered them to the consignee, the carrier has no further
control. Although shipped with the intention of immediate
slaughter, the consignee may change his mind and pasture
them in the State. Whatever may have been the intention of
the shipment, the liability of the carrier is the same.
I cannot believe that the carrier is thus placed beneath the
upper and the nether millstone, liable under the law of Texas
to the owner of the cattle if he refuses to ship them, Bowman
v. Chicago & Northwestern Railway, supra;and liable to any
one in Kansas under the Kansas statute if injuries result from
the improper handling by the consignee or others. The presumption of knowledge, which is provided for in ection 17,
is, in this aspect of the case, entirely immaterial, and does not
affect the validity of the statute. Apply the principle of this
legislation to other objects than cattle, and see in what it
results. Gunpowder, dynamite, many of the drugs used in
medicine, while legitimate articles of commerce, and of great
value for certain purposes, may, if improperly or carelessly
handled, be the means of doing immense injury. Can a State
say to a carrier, You may bring gunpowder or any other article of danger into the State, but if you know its dangerous
character you shall be responsible for all damages that it may
cause in the hands of the consignee or any subsequent party
through improper handling? It certainly places it in the
power of the State to most materially interfere with inter-

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Counsel for Parties.

state commerce if it can prescribe that as a condition of its
being carried on. The number of articles and the amount
of interstate commerce thus subjected to the will of the
State can scarcely be overestimated.
It is undoubtedly true that legislation should be had in respect to matters of this kind, but in my judgment such legislation can only come from Congress, and that body, and that
body alone, can prescribe the conditions upon which commerce
in these cattle can be carried on. Congress has legislated, but
only partially, and the fact that its legislation does not go so
far as in the judgment of the legislature of Kansas is required,
is not, in my opinion, sufficient to warrant the State in enacting this statute. For these reasons, thus briefly stated, I am
compelled to dissent from the opinion of the court.

LOUISVILLE AN]) NASHVILLE RAILROAD
PANY v. BEHLMER.

COM-

-APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FOURTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 585. Submitted March 14, 1898. -Decided March 28, 1898.

The provision In § 16 of the act of February 4, 1887, as amended by the act
of March 2, 1889, c. 382, that appeals from judgments of Circuit Courts
In such cases to this court shall not operate to stay or supersede the order of the court, or the execution of any writ or process thereon, does
not refer to an appeal from a judgment of a Circuit Court of Appeals to
this court; and such an appeal to this court from such a judgment of a
Circuit Court of Appeals operates as a supersedeas.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
.Mr. Olaudiac B. Nforthrop for the motion to vacate the
supersedeas.
.Mr.Joseph W. Barnwell and -Mr'.EdwardBaxter opposing.

