OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

THOMAS v. GAY.
GAY v. THOMAS.
APPEALS FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF
OKLAHOMA.
os. 287, 439. Argued and submitted October 21, 22, 1897. -Decided February 21, 1898.

The act of the legislature of the Territory of Oklahoma of March 5, 1895,
c. 43, which provided that " when any cattle are kept or grazed or any
other personal property is situated in any unorganized country, district
or reservation of this Territory, such property shall be subject to taxation
in the organized county to which said country, district or reservation
is attached for judicial purposes," was a legitimate exercise of the Territory's power of taxation, and, when enforced in the taxation of cattle
belonging to persons not resident in the Territory grazing upon Indian
reservations therein, does not violate the Constitution of the United
States.
The Supreme Court of the Territory in this case sustained the authority of
the board of equalization to increase the assessment or valuation, and in
a subsequent case decided the other way. In view of the fact that the
judgment in this case is reversed, and the case remanded for further
proceedings, this court declines to pass upon the question.

THESE are cross-appeals from the Supreme Court of the

Territory of Oklahoma. The facts, as stated in the opinion
of the court below, were as follows:
The appellants are non-residents of the Territory of Oklahoma and owners of large herds of cattle that were kept and
grazed, during a portion of the year 1895, in parts of the Osage
Indian reservation in this Territory.
The appellees are the board of county commissioners, treasurer and sheriff of Kay County, Oklahoma Territory.
On the third Monday in February, 1894, the Supreme Court
of the Territory of Oklahoma, by an order entered on the
journals of said court, attached to said county of Kay, for judicial purposes, all the Kaw or Kansas Indian reservation and
all of the Osage Indian reservation north of the township line
dividing townships 25 and 26 north. All of said reservations
so attached to said Kay County for judicial purposes by such

THOMAS v. GAY.
Statement of the Case.

order are without the boundaries of said Kay County as established by the governor and are not within the boundaries of
any organized county of this Territory. Said territory so
attached to said county of Kay for judicial purposes is comprised wholly of lands owned and occupied by Indian tribes,
and consists principally of wild, unimproved and unallotted
lands used for grazing purposes; that plaintiffs in error during
the year 1895 and during the month of April of said year
drove, transported and shipped to the ranges and pastures in
that part of said Osage Indian reservation attached to said
Kay County for judicial purposes, as aforesaid, large herds
and numbers of cattle, which were taken to said reservation
in pursuance and by virtue and authority of certain leases to
plaintiffs in error for grazing purposes made by the Osage
tribal government under the supervision of the agent in charge
of said tribe and upon the ratification and approval of the
Commissioner of Indian Affairs and of the Secretary of the
Interior, and said cattle of said plaintiffs in error were on
the first day of May kept and grazed on that part of said
Xndian reservation attached to said Kay County for judicial
purposes, as aforesaid.
By an act approved March 5, 1895, c. 43, the.legislative
assembly of the Territory of Oklahoma amended section 13,
article 2, chapter 70, of the Oklahoma Statutes relating to revenue, so that the same reads as follows: "That when any cattle
are kept or grazed or any other personal property is situated in
any unorganized country, district or reservation of this Territory, such property shall be subject to taxation in the organized county to which said country, district or reservation is
attached for judicial purposes," and authorized the board of
county commissioners of the organized county or counties to
which such unorganized country, district or reservation is attached to appoint a special assessor each year, whose duty it
should be to assess such property, and conferred upon such
special assessor all the powers and required him to perform all
the duties of a township assessor. The assessor so provided
for was required to begin and perform his duties between the
first day of April and the 25th day of May of each year and

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

to complete his duties and return his tax lists on or before June
1, and the property therein authorized to be assessed, it was
provided, should be valued as of May 1, each year.
In pursuance of the provisions of said act the county commissioners of said Kay County did duly appoint a special
assessor for the year 1895 to assess such cattle as were kept
and grazed and any other personal property situated in the
unorganized country and parts of Indian reservations attached
to said Kay County for judicial purposes, and said special
assessor did, by virtue of said appointment, assess all the personal property in the territory so attached to the county of
Kay for judicial purposes, including all of the cattle of the
said appellants kept and grazed in said reservation on the first
day of May, 1895. The said special assessor assessed the property of these appellants so located on said territory attached
to said county of Kay for judicial purposes, as aforesaid, and
returned the same upon an assessment roll at the total valuation of $760,469; that thereafter the said sum was, by the
clerk of said county, carried into the aggregate assessment for
said county, and by him certified to the auditor of the Territory ; that the Territorial board of equalization in acting upon
the various assessments of the various counties as certified to
said board raised the aggregate valuation of the property returned for taxation upon the tax rolls of said county of Kay
thirty-five per cent, and the county clerk for said county carried out the raised valuation so certified to him by said Territorial board of equalization against the property of these
appellants and made the aggregate valuation of such property
$1,026,634. Thereafter the Territorial board of equalization
levied and duly certified to the county clerk of the county of
Kay tax levies for Territorial purposes for the year 1895 as
follows: General revenue, three mills on the dollar; university
fund, one half mill on the dollar; normal school fund, one
half mill on the dollar; bond interest fund, one half mill on
the dollar; board of education fund, one half mill on the
dollar.
The board of county commissioners for the county of Kay
made the following levies for the year 1895: for salaries, five

THOMAS v. GAY.
Statement of the Case.

mills on the dollar; for contingent expenses, three mills on the
dollar; for sinking fund, one and one half mills on the dollar;
for court expenses, two and one half mills on the dollar; for
county supplies, three mills on the dollar; for road and bridge
fund, two mills on the dollar; for poor fund of said county,
one mill on the dollar; for county school fund of said county,
one mill on the dollar.
The county clerk of said county of Kay carried the valuation of the property of these plaintiffs in error upon the tax
rolls of said county, and against the same extended the levies
as aforesaid, and charged against the property of these plaintiffs in error in the aggregate the sum of $26,174.16.
Before these taxes became delinquent, plaintiffs in error
began to remove or attempted to remove their respective
property from the territory attached to Kay County for judicial purposes and beyond the limits of Oklahoma Territory.
The treasurer of said Kay County issbied tax warrants for the
several amounts of taxes levied against. the property of each
of said plaintiffs in error, and delivered the same to the
sheriff of said county for execution; said sheriff seized certain
property of each of appellants by virtue of such tax warrants.
The appellants filed their several petitions in the District
Court of Kay County, and, on application, obtained injunctions restraining the appellees from making any further attempt to collect such taxes. Afterwards, on motion, the several
actions were consolidated into one. To the petition filed in
such consolidated action the defendants in error filed a general demurrer. At the hearing, the District Court sustained
the demurrer in part and overruled it in part, holding that all
of the levies made for Territorial purposes and the county
levy for court expenses were valid, and as to those levies the
injunction was dissolved, and as to all of the other county
levies such injunctions were made perpetual. From that part
of the order and judgment of the court, dissolving the injunction as to the Territorial taxes and the one county fund levy,
plaintiffs appealed. From that part perpetuating the injunction as to all of the county levies, except that for court expenses, the defendants appekled and filed their cross-petitions

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

in error, and the case was taken to the Supreme Court of the
Territory. In that court the judgment of the District Court
was affirmed. Three of the four judges, who sat in the case,
agreed in holding that the taxes levied for territorial and
court expense funds were valid; two were of opinion that the
balance of the taxes were unauthorized; one was of opinion
that all the taxes were validly levied, and the fourth judge
dissented in toto. From that judgment of the Supreme Court
of the Territory both parties appealed to this court.
.Mr. lenry E Asp and Xrr. John W. Shartel for Gay.
ir. J F. King for Thomas and others, county commissioners, submitted on their brief.
Mr. Jeremiiah X. Wilson and Mr. 0. F. Goddard filed a
brief on behalf of other owners of cattle grazing on the
reservations.
-Mr. f. S. Cunningham filed a brief on behalf of the
Territory.
MR. JusTieE Snirms, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

It is claimed that the legislative assembly of the Territory
of Oklahoma was without power to enact the law of March 5,
1895, providing for the taxing of cattle grazing upon the
Indian reservations under leases granted by the Indians,
because, both before and since the creation of said Territory,
exclusive jurisdiction over said Indians and their lands, and
over all matters in any way affecting them, or in which they
are interested, is in the United States.

It is, indeed, true that the lands in question, constituting
the reservations of the Osage and Kansas Indians, are portions
of lands previously granted by patent of the United States, in
pursuance of the treaty of May 6, 1828, 7 Stat. 311, and of the
treaty of December 29, 1835, 7 stat. 478, to the Cherokee

THOMAS v. GAY.
Opinion of the Court.

Nation of Indians, and that it was provided, in those treaties,
that the lands so granted should not, without the consent of the
Indians, at any future time be "included within the territorial
limits or jurisdiction of any State or Territory."
In the subsequent treaty with the Cherokees of July 19,
1866, 14 Stat. 799, 804, it was stipulated that the United
States might "settle friendly Indians in any part of the
Cherokee country west of the 96th degree, to be taken in a
compact form, in quantity not exceeding 160 acres for each
member of each of said tribes thus to be settled, the boundaries of each of said districts to be distinctly marked, and the
land conveyed in fee simple to each of said tribes,
said land to be paid for to the Cherokee Nation, at such price
as may be agreed upon between the said parties in interest,
subject to the approval of the President."
On the 26th of June, 1866, a treaty was made with the
Osage Indians, 14 Stat. 687, wherein it was provided that a
large part of the reservation then occupied by that tribe in
Kansas was sold outright to the Government for a certain sum
of money, and by article 16 of said treaty it was provided that
"If said Indians should agree to remove from the State of
Kansas and settle on land to be provided for them by the
United States in the Indian Territory, on such terms as may
be agreed upon between the United States and the Indian
tribes now residing in said Territory, or any of them, then the
diminished reservation shall be disposed of by the United
States in the same manner and for the same purposes as
hereinbefore provided in relation to said trust lands, except
that fifty per cent of the proceeds of the sale of said diminished reserve may be used by the United States in the
purchase of lands for a suitable home for said Indians in said,
Indian Territory."
On July 15, 1870, 16 Stat. 335, Congress passed an act, providing, in substance, that whenever the Osages should agree
thereto, in such manner as the President should prescribe,
said Indians should be removed from their said diminished
reservation in the State of Kansas to the lands to be provided
for them in the Indian Territory, "to consist of a tract of land

OCTOBE R TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

in compact form, equal in quantity to 160 acres for each member of tribe, to be paid for out of the proceeds of the sales of
their lands in the State of Kansas;" and subsequently the
Osages were established upon their present reservation, and
the Cherokees were paid therefor the sum of $1,650,600; and
by an act approved June 5, 1872, 17 Stat. 228, Congress confirmed this reservation in said Cherokee country.
The history of the transfer of the so-called Kaw or Kansas
Indians from their reservation in the State of Kansas to lands
bought from the Cherokee Nation, constituting their present
reservation, was similar to that of the Osages, and calls for no
special narration:
In 1883, sufficient money having been realized from the sales
to pay for said lands, a deed was duly executed by the Cherokees conveying all their rights and title in and to the United
States for the use of the said Osage and Kansas Indians, which
deed is recorded in volume 6 of the Indian Deeds in the office
of the Commissioner of Indian Affairs in the Department of
the Interior.
It is alleged that, by no subsequent treaty, have either the
Cherokee or the Osage or Kansas Indians consented that the
lands here in question should be included within the limits or
jurisdiction of the Territory of Oklahoma; and it is accordingly
now contended that under the provision contained in the
Cherokee treaties, the lands therein designated should never
be embraced within the limits of a Territory or State without
the consent of said Indians, the exemption or right thereby
created runs with the land, subject to which said lands, or any
part thereof, could be conveyed to other Indians, and is not a
right belonging solely to the Cherokees, which ceased to exist
when the ownership of the Cherokees therein terminated.
Whether, without express stipulation to that effect, the
right granted by treaty to the Cherokee Nation, to be exempt,
as to their lands, from inclusion within the limits of any
Territory or State, passed with the grant of a portion of such
lands to the Osage and Kansas Indians, we need not consider,
because, even if such were the law, it is conceded that the
United States have, by the act of May 2, 1890, 26 Stat. 81,

THOMAS v. GAY.
Opinion of the Court.

creating the Territory of Oklahoma, included these Osage
and Kansas Indian lands within the geographical limits of
said Territory.
It is well settled that an act of Congress may supersede a
prior treaty, and that any questions that may arise are beyond
the sphere of judicial cognizance, and must be met by the
political department of the Government.
"It need hardly be said that a treaty cannot change the
Constitution or be held valid if it be in violation of that instrument. This results from the nature and fundamental
principles of our Government. The effect of treaties and acts
of Congress, when in conflict, is not settled by .theConstitution.
But the question is not involved in any doubt as to its proper
solution. A treaty may supersede a prior act of Congress, and
an act of Congress may supersede a prior treaty. Foster v.
Neilson, 2 Pet. 253, 314; Taylor v. -Morton,2 Curtis, 454.
"In the cases referred to, these principles were applied to
treaties with foreign nations. Treaties with Indian nations
within the jurisdiction of the United States, whatever considerations of humanity and good faith may be involved and
require their faithful observance, cannot be more obligatory.
In the case under consideration the act of Congress
must prevail as if the treaty were not an element to be considered." The Cherokee Tobacco, 11 Wall. 616.
That was a case where an act of Congress extended the
revenue laws as respected tobacco over the Indian territories,
regardless of provisions in prior treaties that exempted tobacco
raised by Indians on their reservations.
The grant of legislative power to the Territory of Oklahoma,
contained in the sixth section of the organic act, was as follows:
"The legislative power of the Territory shall extend to all
rightful subjects of legislation, not inconsistent with the Constitution and laws of the United States, but no law shall be
passed interfering with the primary disposal of the soil; no
tax shall be imposed on the property of the United States,
nor shall the lands or other property of non-residents be taxed
higher than the lands or other property of residents, nor shall

OCTOBER TERM, 1807.
Opinion of the Court.

any law be passed impairing the right to private property, nor
shall any unequal discrimination be made in taxing different
kinds of property, but all property subject to taxation shall be
taxed in proportion to its value."
With the Indian reservations brought, by valid legislation,
within the limits of the Territory, and with the broad grant
of legislative power contained in the section just quoted, we
are next to consider objections urged to the validity of the act
of the territorial assembly, approved March 5, 1895, wherein
it provides that "when any cattle are kept or grazed, or any
other personal property is situated in any unorganized country,
district or reservation of this Territory, such property shall be
subject to taxation in the organized county to which said country, district or reservation is attached for judicial purposes."
Our attention is called to the following provision contained
in the first section of the organic act:
"Nothing in this act shall be construed to impair any right
now pertaining to any Indians or Indian tribe in said Territory
under the laws, agreements and treaties of the United States,
or to impair the rights of persons or property pertaining to
said Indians, or to affect the authority of the United States to
make any regulation or to make any law respecting said Indians, their lands, property or other rights, which it would
have been competent to make or enact if this act had not
been passed."
And also to section 3 of the act of February 28, 1891, c. 383,
26 Stat. 794, as follows:
"Where lands are occupied by Indians, who have bought
and paid for the same, and which lands are not needed for
farming or agricultural purposes, and are not desired for individual allotments, the same may be leased by authority of
the council, speaking for such Indians, for a period not to
exceed five years for grazing or ten years for mining purposes,
in such quantities and upon such terms and conditions as the
agent in charge of such reservation may recommend, subject
to the approval of the Secretary of the Interior."
And the contention is that, irrespective of the question
whether said lauds are, by the treaties, excluded from the

THOMAS v. GAY.
Opinion of the Court.

limits and jurisdiction of the Territory of Oklahoma, the taxation of cattle located for grazing purposes upon the reservations, under leases duly authorized by act of Congress, is a
violation of the rights of the Indians and an invasion of the
jurisdiction and control of the United States over them and
their lands.
As to that portion of the argument which claims that, even
if the Indians were not interested in any way in the property
taxed, the territorial authorities would have no right to tax
the property of others than Indians located upon these reservations, it is sufficient to cite the cases of Utah & Northern
lBailway v. Fisher, 116 U. S. 28, and .farieoya & Phonix
JBailroadv. Arizona, 156 U. S. 34:7, in which it was held that
the property of railway companies traversing Indian reservations are subject to taxation by the States and Territories in
which such reservations are located.
But it is urged that the Indians are directly and vitally interested in the property sought to be taxed, and that their
rights of property and person are seriously affected by the
legislation complained of; that the money contracted to be
paid for the privilege of grazing is paid to the Indians as a
tribe, and is used and expended by.them for their own purposes, and that if, by reason of this taxation, the conditions
existing at the time the leases were executed were changed,
or could be changed by the legislature of Oklahoma at its
pleasure, the value of the lands for such purposes would flucta-,
ate or be destroyed altogether according to such conditions.
But it is obvious that a tax put upon the.cattle of the lessees
is too remote and indirect to be deemed a tax upon the lands
or privileges of the Indians. A similar contention was urged
in the case of Erie Railroad.v. Pennsylvania,158 U. S. 431.
There the State of Pennsylvania had imposed a tax upon a
railroad, situated within the borders of that State, but leased
to another railroad company engaged in carrying on interstate
commerce, and this tax was measured by a reference to the
amount of the tolls received by the lessor company from the
lessee company. It was claimed that the imposition of a tax
on tolls might lead to increasing them in an effort to throw
voL ci u-18

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

their burthen on the carrying company, and thus, in effect,
become a tax or charge upon interstate commerce. But this
court held that such a tax upon tolls was too indirect and
remote to be regarded as a tax or burthen on interstate commerce. A similar view was taken in the case of -Henderson
-Bridge Co. v. .Eentucey,166 U. S. 150, where a tax imposed
by the State of Kentucky on the intangible propertyof a coinpany which owned and maintained a bridge over a river between two States was contended to be objectionable as constituting a burthen upon interstate commerce, but it was held that
the fact that the tax in question was to some extent affected
by the amount of the tolls received, and therefore might be
supposed to increase the rate of tolls and thus be a burthen on
interstate commerce, was too remote and incidental to make it
a tax on the business transacted. Adams Express Co. v. Ohio
State Auditor, 166 U. S.185.
The suggestion that such a tax on the cattle constitutes a
tax on the lands within the reasoning in the case of Pollock v.
Farmers'Loan, and Trust Co., 157 U. S.429, is purely fanciful.
The holding there was that a tax on rents derived from lands
was substantially a tax on the lands. To make the present
case a similar one the tax should have been levied on the rents
received by the Indians, and not on the cattle belonging to
third parties.
It is further contended that this tax law of the Territory of
Oklahoma, in so far as it affects the Indian reservations, is
in conflict with the constitutional power of Congress to regulate
commerce with the Indian tribes. It is said to interfere with,
or impose a servitude upon, a lawful commercial intercourse
with the Indians, over which Congress has absolute control,
and in the exercise of which control it has enacted the statute
authorizing the leasing by the Indians of their unoccupied
lands for grazing purposes.
The unlimited power of Congress to deal with the Indians,
their property and commercial transactions, so long as they
keep up their tribal organizations, may be conceded; but it is
not perceived that local taxation, by a State or Territory, of
property of others than Indians would be an interference with

THOMAS v. GAY.
Opinion of the Court.

Congressional power. It was decided in Utak & _Torthern
Railway v. Fisher,116 U. S. 28, that the lands and railroad
of a railway company within the limits of the Fort Hill Indian
reservation in the Territory of Idaho was lawfully subject to
territorial taxation, which might be enforced within the exterior boundaries of the reservation by proper process. The
question was similarly decided in Maricopa & -PhonixRailroad v. Arizona Territory,156 U. S. 34:7.
The taxes in question here were not imposed on the business
of grazing, or on the rents received by the Indians, but on the
cattle as property of the lessees, and, as we have heretofore
said that as such a tax is too remote and indirect to be deemed
a tax or burthen on interstate commerce, so is it too remote
and indirect to be regarded as an interference with the legislative power of Congress.
These views sufficiently dispose of the objections urged
against the power of the legislative assembly of Oklahoma to
pass laws taxing property within the limits of the Indian
reservations and belonging to persons not Indians. We must
now consider the objections made to the mode in which that
power was exercised in the act of March 5, 1895.
The most fundamental of these objections is found in the
assertion that, so far as non-resident owners of cattle grazing
within the Indian reservations are concerned, it is taxation
without representation, and that such persons derive no benefit
from the expenditure of the moneys accruing from the tax.
The organic act, as we have already seen, extends the exterior boundary of the Territory around these Indian reservations. It also provided for the division of the Territory into
council and representative districts, and for the election of a
legislative assembly and of a delegate to Congress. The Indian
reservations were not included within any of the council.or representative districts. The act provided that there should be
seven counties, and fixed the county seats, and under the authority of the act the governor established the boundaries of
these connties. The legislature was authorized to change the
boundaries of the original counties, but was not given authority to include these Indian reservations, or any lands not then

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

open to settlement in any of the counties. By section nine it
was provided that the Territory should be divided into three
judicial districts; that the Supreme Court should define such
judicial districts; and that the territory not embraced in organized counties should be attached, for judicial purposes, to such
organized county or counties as the Supreme Court should determine. In May, 1890, the Supreme Court made an order attaching the several Indian reservations to certain organized counties
for judicial purposes, and by an order on February 3, 1894, attached the reservations in question in this case to Kay County
for judicial purposes.
As already stated, by the act of March 5, 1895, it was provided that when any cattle are kept or grazed or any other
personal property is situated in any unorganized country, district or reservation, such property shall be subject to taxation in
the organized county to which said country, district or reservation is attached for judicial purposes; and provision was made
for the appointment of a special assessor for such unorganized
country, district or reservation. Under this condition of affairs
it is contended that the taxing power cannot be lawfully exerted as respects property within these reservations. It is said
that those to be affected by the tax have no voice in the election of the legislature to make the laws by which they are to
be governed; that they have no school facilities for their
children; that they cannot organize towns, so as to have the
benefit of the police and sanitary laws of the Territory; that
the officers of Kay County have no authority to expend any
portion of the moneys raised by this taxation in improving
roads within the Indian reservation; that they cannot participate in the election of the territorial delegate; and that they
are not benefited by the taxes appropriated for salary fund,
contingent expense fund, sinking fund, road and bridge fund,
poor fund, etc.
Undoubtedly there are general principles, familiar to our
systems of state and Federal government, that the people who
pay taxes imposed by laws are entitled to have a voice in the
election of those who pass the laws, and that taxes must be
assessed and collected for public purposes, and that the duty

THOMAS v. GAY.
Opinion of the Court.

or obligation to pay taxes by the individual is founded in his
participation in the benefits arising from their expenditure..
But these principles, as practically administered, do not mean
that no person, man, woman or child, resident or non-resident,
shall b taxed, unless he was represented by some one for
whom he had actually voted, nor do they mean that no man's
property can be taxed unless some benefit to him personally
can be pointed out. Thus it has been held that personal allegiance has no necessary connection with the right of taxation;
an alien may be taxed as well as a citizen. .Mager v. Grima,
8 How. 490; Wit erspoon, v. Duncan, 4 Wall. 210. So, likewise, it is settled law that the property, both real and personal,
of non-residents may be lawfully subjected to the tax laws of
the State in which they are situated.
The specific objection made to the validity of these taxes as
imposed on personal property located in unorganized countries
or in the reservations does not seem to us to be well founded.
We have already cited the cases of Utah & Northern Railway Company v. Fsher, 116 U. S. 28, and 3Maricopa & Phenix Railroad v. Arizona, 156 U. S. 3-7, wherein territorial
tax laws were held to have a valid operation over property
lying within Indian reservations. Union Pao. Railroad v.
Peniston, 18 Wall. 5, 37, was a case where unorganized country was attached by law to an organized county for judicial
and revenue purposes, and the law was sustained, as appears
in the decision delivered by Mr. Justice Strong, as follows:
"It remains only to notice one other position taken by the
complainants. It is that if the act of the State under which
the tax was laid be constitutional in its application to their
property within Lincoln County, the property outside of Lincoln County is not lawfully taxable by the authorities of that
county under the laws of the State. To this we are unable to
give our assent. By the statutes of Nebraska the unorganized
territory west of Lincoln County, and the unorganized country
of Cheyenne, are attached to the county of Lincoln for judicial and revenue purposes. The authorities of that county,
therefore, were the proper authorities to levy the tax upon the
property thus placed unider their charge for revenue purposes."

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

In Llano Cattle Co. v. Faught, 5 S. W. Rep. 494 (Texas),
the case was that an unorganized cou'ntry was attached by lair
to the organized county of Scurry for judicial purposes. The
officers of Scurry County assessed and levied county taxes
upon the cattle of the plaintiff, a foreign corporation, kept in
the unorganized country, and it was held that the unorganized
country, being in effect a part of the county to which it was so
attached, the collection of taxes on such personalty of a nonresident may be enforced by the tax collector of the latter
county. We are referred to similar decisions in Kansas: Phi1pin v. o3carty, 24 Kansas, 393 ; in Ohio: .Kemper v. .A0lel-"
land, 19 Ohio, 308; in Iowa: Hilliardv. G'rifln, 33 N. W.
Rep. 156; in Michigan: Comins v. T6wnskip of Harriville,
45 Michigan, 442.
It is further contended that, while the taxes assessed for
territorial and court expense funds may be valid, yet that the
balance of the taxes, levied for county purposes and expended
within the geographical limits of Kay County, are unauthorized, for the reason that the people on these reservations are
not interested in such taxes, and receive no benefit from their
expenditure. But, as it seems to us, it cannot be maintained
that those plaintiffs whose cattle are within the protection of
the laws of Oklahoma receive no benefit from the expenditures
in Kay County. Certainly they have some advantage in the
improvement of the roads within that county, when they journey to and from the towns and settlements in the organized
county. They are interested in the prevalence of law and
order in the communities adjacent to their property, and in
the provision made for the care of the poor and insane. It is
to be presumed that they have a right to send their children
to the schools in the organized county.
The cases, both state and Federal, are numerous in which it
has been held that taxes, otherwise lawful, are not invalidated
by the allegation, or even the fact, that the resulting benefits
are unequally shared.
In ielly v. Pittsburg,104 U. S. '78, the complaint was that
certain water, street, gas, school and other taxes were unlawfully assessed against the property of the plaintiff, which,

THOMaS v. GAY.
Opinion of the Court.

though lying within city limits, were not benefited by such
taxes; but this court, affirming the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, said:
"We are unable to see that the taxes levied on this property
were not for a public use. Taxes for schools, for the support
of the poor, -for protection against fire, and for waterworks
are the specific taxes found in the list complained of. We
think it will not be denied by any one that these are public
purposes in which the whole community have an interest, and
for which, by common consent, property owners everywhere
in this country are taxed. There are items styled city tax and
city buildings which, in the absence of any explanation, we
must suppose to be for the good government of the city, and
for the construction of such buildings as are necessary for
municipal purposes. . . . It may be true that the plaintiff
does not receive the same amount of benefit from some or any
of these taxes as do citizens living in the heart of the city. It
is probably true, from the evidence found in this record, that
his tax bears a very unjust relation to the benefits received as
compared with its amount. But who can adjust with precise
accuracy the amount which each individual in an organized
civil community shall contribute to sustain it, or can insure in
this respect absolute equality of burthens and fairness in their
distribution among those who must bear them ?
"We cannot say judicially that the plaintiff received no
benefit from the city organization. These streets, if they do
not penetrate his farm, lead to it. The waterworks will probably reach him some day, and may be near enough to him
now to serve him on some occasion. The schools may receive
his children, and in this regard he can be in no worse condition than those living in the city who have no children, and
yet who pay for the support of the schools. Every man in a
county, a town, a city or a State is deeply interested in the
education of the children of the community, because his peace
and quiet, his happiness and prosperity, are largely dependent
upon the intelligence and moral training which it is the object
of public schools to supply to the children of his neighbors and
associates, if he has none himself."
I

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

It is no objection to a tax that the party required to pay it
derives no benefit from the particular burthen; e.g. a tax for
school purposes levied upon a manufacturing corporation.
But, in truth, benefits always flow from the appropriation of
public moneys to such purposes, which corporations in common with national persons receive in the additional security
to their property and profits. Amesbury Hail Factory Co. v.
Weed, 17 Mass. 53.
In Cooley on Taxation, 16, the result of a wide examination

of the cases is thus stated:
"If it were practicable to do so, the taxes levied by any
government ought to be apportioned among the people according to the benefit which each receives from the protection the
Government affords him; but this is manifestly impossible.
The value of life and liberty, and of the social and family
rights and privileges cannot be measured by any pecuniary
standard; and by the general consent of civilized nations, income or the sources of income are almost universally made
the basis upon -which the ordinary taxes are estimated. This
is upon the assumption, never wholly true in point of fact, but
sufficiently near the truth for the practical operations of Government, that the benefit received from the Government is in
proportion to the property held, or the revenue enjoyed under
its protection; and though this can never be arrived at with
accuracy, through the operation of any general rule, and would
not be wholly just if it could be, experience has given us no
better standard, and it is applied in a great variety of forms,
and with more or less approximation to justice and equality.
But, as before stated, other considerations are always admissible; what is aimed at is, not taxes strictly just, but such
taxes as will best subserve the general welfare of the political
society."
The fact that the taxes in question are levied on personal
property only and thus exempt real property is urged as an
objection to the validity of the act. It is claimed that such
,an exemption operates as an unjust discrimination.
's the owners of the cattle taxed own no real estate within
the Indian reservation, this objection, if sound, would render

ThOMAS v. GAY.
Opinion of the Court.

it impossible to tax the cattle at all. But it is the usual course
in tax laws to treat personal property as one class and real estate as another, and it has never been supposed that such
classification created an illegal discrimination, because there
might be some persons who owned only personal property, and
others who owned property of both classes. Again, it is complained that this law violates the principle of uniformity, and
operates as an unjust discrimination, because it provides for
an assessment of cattle, kept and grazed on the Indian reservations, at a different time from that provided for the assessment of personal property, including cattle, in the organized
country.
It is not unusual for tax laws to authorize the assessment of
different classes of property at different dates, and even of the
same classes of property in different localities at different dates.
Such matters of regulation must be supposed to be within the
power of the State or Territory, and to have their reasons in
special facts known to the legislature. We are informed that
the revenue laws of Oklahoma provide that real estate shall
be valued for taxation on the first day of January, and personal property in the organized counties on the first day of
February of each year, and the personal property upon the
reservations on May 1. The gravamen of the complaint is
that cattle are fatter and more valuable on May 1 than on
February 1, and hence there is an inequality in the assessments. On the other hand, it is claimed that if the cattle on
the reservations were to be valued for taxation in February,
the larger part would escape taxation, as they are not driven
to the reservations till April.
A similar objection was urged against the validity of a tax
law of the State of Wisconsin, wherein April 1 was fixed as
the date for assessing saw logs belonging to non-residents and
May 1 for assessing saw logs of residents. The court said:
"It is claimed that this law violates the principle of uniformity in providing for an assessment of the logs of a nonresident at a different time than that provided in the case of
residents; that for the same reason it discriminates unjustly
against non-residents. But I am of opinion that the case

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.
does not come within either of these principles.

.

.

.

The

legislature was aware that the logs of non-residents as well as
resident owners were liable to be floated out of the State in
ltelson, Lumber Co. v. -Toraine (Ot.
the month of April."
Ct. of U. S. for Dist. of Wisconsin), 22 Fed. Rep. 54.
In Missouri a statute was held valid which provided that
real property should be assessed every two years in all counties
outside of St. Louis, and that all property in the city of St.
Louis should be assessed every year, for state and municipal
taxes, and this although in the particular case it was shown
that this difference in the time of the assessments made a considerable difference in the amount of the taxes. State v. -ATew
Lindell Hotel Co., 9 Mo. App. 450.
A law providing different times for assessments for state
taxes in the State of iNew York was held to be legal. .Pege
v. Commissioners of Taxes, 91 N. Y. 593.
Several other provisions of the act in question are pointed
to as creating discriminations against taxpayers whose property is in the unorganized district and reservations, such as
these; that city and township assessors are required to be
residents and qualified voters in the township or city where
elected, but there is no such requirement imposed on the
special assessor appointed by the board of county commissioners to assess the personal property in the reservations and
unorganized districts; that the several township and city assessors are required to meet at the county seat and agree
upon an equal cash basis of valuation of all property that
they may be called upon to assess, but in this matter the
special assessors do not participate; that the township assessor, clerk and treasurer are a, township board of equalization,
and the mayor, city clerk and city assessor are a city board
of equalization, but that, in the case of the unorganized districts and reservations, the board of county commissioners
act as a board of equalization, etc.
Without undertaking to enumerate all the instances in
which there is some difference of procedure in respect to

property assessed within the organized counties and property
assessed in the unorganized districts and reservations, or to

THOMAS v. GAY.
Opinion of the Court.

consider minutely the several objections that are urged to
such differences, we do not perceive that the questions suggested are for the oourts. Clearly these are matters of detail
within the legislative discretion. It is the lawmaking power
which is to determine all questions of discretion or policy in
ordering and apportioning taxes; which must make all the
necessary rules and regulations, and decide upon the agencies.
by means of which the taxes shall be collected. When, as
may sometimes happen, the legislature transcends its functions and enacts, in the guise of a tax law, a law whereby the
property of the citizen is confiscated, or taken for private
purposes, the judiciary has the right and duty to interpose.
But such a case is not presented by this record.
These views dispose of the objections urged against the
validity of the act of March 5, 1895, and leave only for consideration error assigned to the action of the territorial board
of equalization in adding thirty-five per cent to the assessment
or valuation made by the officer or officers to whom the duty
to make the assessment is by the statute expressly committed.
It is alleged that this order by the board of equalization was
unauthorized and void.
We learn from the opinion of the Supreme Court of Oklahoma in the present case that this question of the power of
the territorial board of equalization to raise the valuation of
the properties to be taxed had been, in the previous case
of Wallace v. Bullen, decided affirmatively, and that such
decision was followed in the present case.
We are informed, however, by the brief filed in behalf of
the petitioners that subsequently, on September 3, 1897, in the
case of Gray v. Stiles, 49 Pac. Rep. 1083, the subject was
again considered and an opposite conclusion reached. It is
also asserted in said brief that the question is one of general
importance, and that a final decision of it may affect the
validity of municipal obligations heretofore issued in the
Territory.
Such allegations disclose that there are parties not represented before us whose interests are involved in the inquiry.
The case was heard in the trial court on a demurrer to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Syllabus.

petition, and the question of the validity of the action of the
board of equalization in raising the assessed values throughout the Territory was put by the Su~reme'Oourt, without discussion, on its previous decision in the case of Wallace v. Bullen.
We are also informed by the briefs that the case just mentioned
is now pending before the Supreme Court on an order for a
rehearing. Whether the facts pertaining to the action of the
board of equalization in this particular were the same in
Gray v. Stiles as those in this case, we cannot say from this
record.
In such circumstances, we think it would be premature for
this court to determine the question..
As, for the reasons before given, the judgment of the
Supreme Court must be reversed, that court will have an
opportunity to deal with this question, if it think fit, upon a
rehearing.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Oklahoma is accordingly reversed,'and the cause is remanded with directions
to proceed in conformity with this opinion.

BAKER v. GRICE.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 836.

Argued January 26, 198.-Decided February 21, 1698.

While Circuit Courts of the United States have jurisdiction, under the circumstances set forth in the statement of the case (below), to issue a
writ of habeas corpus, yet those courts ought not to exercise that jurisdiction, by the discharge of a prisoner, unless in cases of peculiar
urgency, but should leave the prisoner to be dealt with by the courts
of the State; and even after a final determination of the case by those
courts should ordinarily leave the prisoner to his remedy by writ of error
from this court.
Upon the facts appearing in this case no sufficient case was made out for
the exercise of the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court by the issue of a

