416

OCTOBER TERIM4, 1897.
Counsel for Plaintiff in Error.

BROWN. v. MARION NATIONAL BANK.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF KENTUCKY.
Nlo. 201. Submitted January 21, 198,.-Decided February 21, 189S.

Section 5198 of the Revised Statutes of the United States prescribing what
rate of interest may be taken, received, reserved or charged by a national
banking association, makes a difference between interest which a note,
bill or other evidence of debt " carries with it, or which has been agreed
to be paid thereon," and interest which has been " paid."
Interest included in a renewal note, or evidenced by a separate note, does
not thereby cease to be interest within the meaning of section 5198.
If a national bank sues upon a note, bill or other evidence of debt held by it,
the debtor may insist that the entire interest, legal and usurious, included
in his written obligation and agreed to be paid, but which has not been
actually paid, shall be either credited on the note, or eliminated from it,
and judgment given only for the original principal debt, with interest at
the legal rate from the commencement of the suit.
The forfeiture declared by the statute is not waived by giving a renewal
note, in which is included the usurious interest. No matter how many
renewals may be made, if the bank has charged a greater rate of interest
than the law allows, it must, if the forfeiture clause of the statute be
relied on, and the matter is thus brought to the attention of the court,
lose the entire interest which the note carries or which has been agreed
to be paid.
If, for instance, one executes his note to a national bank for a named sum
as evidence of a loan to him of that amount to be paid in one year at ten
per cent interest, such a rate of interest being illegal, and if renewal
notes are executed each year for five years, without any money being
in fact paid by the borrower, - each renewal note including past interest,
legal and usurious, - the sum included in the last note, in excess of the
sum originally loaned, would be interest which that note carried or which
was agreed to be paid, and not, as to any part of it, interest paid.
If the note when sued on includes usurious interest, or interest upon usurious interest, agreed to be paid, 'the holder may elect to remit such interest, and it cannot then be said that usurious iuterest was paid to him.
If the obligee actually pays usurious interest as such, the usurious transaction must be held to have then, and not before, occurred, and he must
sue within two years thereafter.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
.Mr. . J AcDermott and .Mr. H.
in error.

F .Rives for plaintiff

BROWN v. MARION NATIONAL BANK.
Opinion of the Court.

Mr. WV..J Zisle for defendant in error.

MR. JUSTICE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This case was twice before the Court of Appeals of Kentucky. The first judgment of the court of original jurisdiction
was reversed in that court, and the cause was remanded for
further proceedings. 92 Kentucky, 607.
The present appeal brings up for review the final judgment rendered by the Court of Appeals of Kentucky on a
second appeal to that court.
The case requires the construction of certain provisions of
the Revised Statutes of the United States relating to national
banking associations.
Section 5197 authorizes a national banking association to
take, receive, reserve and charge on any loan or discount
made, or upon any note, bill of exchange or other evidences of
debt, interest at the rate allowed by the laws of the State,
Territory or district where the bank is located, and no more,
except that where by the laws of any State a different rate is
limited for banks of issue organized under state laws, the rate
so limited shall be allowed for associations organized or existing in any such State. When no rate is fixed by the laws of
the State, Territory or district, the bank may take, receive,
reserve or charge a rate not exceeding seven per centum,
and such interest may be taken in advance, reckoning the
days for which the note, bill or other evidence of debt has
to run.
Section 5198 provides: "The taking, receiving, reserving or
charging a rate of interest greater than is allowed by the
preceding section, when knowingly done, shall be deemed a
forfeiture of the entire interest which the note, bill or other
evidence of debt carries with it, or which has been agreed
to be paid thereon. In case the greater rate of interest has
been paid, the person by whom it has been paid, or his legal
representatives, may recover back, in an action in the nature
of an action of debt, twice the amount of the interest thus
paid from the association taking or receiving the same; pro.
voL. cLxIx-27

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

vided such action is commenced within two years from the
time the usurious transaction occurred. That suits, actions
and proceedings against any association under this title
may be had in any circuit, district or territorial court of
United States held within the district in which such association may be established, or in any state, county or municipal court in the county or city in which said association is
located having jurisdiction in similar cases."
The last section clearly makes a difference between interest
which a note, bill or other evidence of debt held by a national
bank, "carries with it or which has been agreed to be paid
thereon," and interest which has been "paid." Interest included in a renewal note, or evidenced by a separate note,
does not thereby cease to be interest within the meaning of
section 5198 and become principal.
If a bank, which violates that section, sues upon the note,
bill or other evidence of debt held by it, the debtor may
insist that the entire interest, legal and usurious, included in
his written obligation and agreed to be paid, but which has
not been actually paid, shall be either credited on the note,
or eliminated from it, and judgment given only for the original principal debt, with interest at the legal rate from the
commencement of the suit. We say "entire interest," because
such are the words of the statute, based on the act of June 8,
1864, c. 106, ยง 30, 13 Stat. 99, 108, whereas the prior statute
of February 25, 1863, c. 58, ยง 46, 12 Stat. 665, 678, declared
that the knowingly taking, reserving or charging a greater
rate of interest than was allowed, should be held and adjudged a forfeiture of "the debt or demand" on which usurious
interest was taken, reserved or charged.
The forfeiture declared by the statute is not waived or
avoided by giving a separate note for the interest, or by giving a renewal note in which is included the usurious interest.
No matter how many renewals may have been made, if the
bank has charged a greater rate of interest than the law
allows, it must, if the forfeiture clause of the statute be relied
on, and the matter is thus brought to the attention of the
court, lose the entire interest which the note carries or which

BROWN! v. MARION NATIOINAL BANK.
Opinion of the Court.

has been agreed to be paid. By no other construction of the
statute can effect be given to the clause forfeiting the entire
interest, which the note, bill or other evidence of debt carries,
or which was agreed to be paid, but which has not been actually paidIt is said that, within the meaning of the statute, interest is
"paid" when included in a renewal note, and when suit is
brought upon the last note, calling for interest from its date,
only the interest accruing on the apparent principal of that
note is subject to forfeiture. We think that the statute cannot be so construed. If, within the meaning of the statute,
interest is "paid" simply by including it in a renewal note, it
would follow that as soon as the usurious interest is included
in a renewal note, the borrower or obligor could sue the lender
or obligee and "recover back . . . twice the amount of
the interest thus paid," when he had not, in fact, vaid the
debt nor any part of the interest as such. This cannot be a
sound interpretation of the statute. The words "in case the
greater rate of interest has been paid," in section 5198, refer
to interest actually paid, as distinguished from interest included in the note and only "agreed to be paid." If, for
instance, one executes his note to a national bank for a named
sum as evidence of a loan to him of that amount to be paid in
one year at ten per cent interest, such a rate of interest being
illegal, and if renewal notes are executed each year for five
successive years, without any money being in fact paid by the
borrower-each renewal note including past interest, legal
and usurious -the sum included in the last note, in excess of
the sum originally loaned, would be interest which that note
carried or which was agreed to be paid, and not, as to any
part of it, interest paid.
It is difficult to tell from the record when there were actual
payments of usurious interest as such. Sometimes interest is
said to have been paid when it is evident that it was only included in a renewal note. But that, as we have said, was not
,payment within the meaning of the statute. Dresbach v.
ATational Bank, 104 -U. S. 52. If the note when sued on
includes usurious interest, or interest upon usurious interest,

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

agreed to be paid, the holder may, in due time, elect to remit
such interest, and it cannot then be said that usurious interest
was paid to him. MeBoom, v. Scottish .Mortgage & Land
Investment Co., 153 _U. S. 318, 328; Stevens v. Lincoln, 7 Met.
525, 528; Saunders v. Lambert, 7 Gray, 484, 486; Stedman v.
Bland, 4 Iredell, Law, 296, 299. If at any time the obligee
actually pays usurious interest as such, the usurious transaction must be held to have then, and not before, occurred, and
he must sue within two years thereafter.
It is proper to state that the judgment before us for review
was not in accordance with the views of the Court of Appeals
of Kentucky as expressed when the case was first before that
court on appeal. 92 Kentucky, 607. The ruling then made
by that court was not followed in the subsequent case of
Snyder v. .Mount Sterling NJational Bank, 94 Kentucky, 231,
in which the language of Judge Acheson in Farmers &
.Mechanics' Bank v. Hoagland, 7 Fed. Rep. 159, 161, was
approved, as follows: "By the terms of the act of Congress
[the national bank act] the charging of such rates of interest
[in excess of the legal rate] worked a forfeiture of the entire
interest which the several notes carried with them. Now
such forfeiture was not waived by the giving of subsequent
notes, although, as respects them, the agreed rate of interest
was a legal rate. They were mere renewals, and given without any new consideration. Nor did the new notes operate
as payment of the debts for which they were given. In so
far, then, as the notes in suit embraced the forfeited interest,
they are without consideration. Moreover, it is an established
principle that if there be usury in the original transaction, it
affects all consecutive securities, however remote, growing out
of it; and neither the renewal of the old, nor the substitution
of a new security, between the same parties, can efface the
usury. The bank incorporated in the new notes usurious
interest, previously charged, as a part of the new principal,
and this illegal consideration pervaded the whole subsequent
series of notes. 'Upon each fresh renewal interest was charged
upon usurious interest, which had entered into the prior notes
as principal."

SAVINGS SOCIETY v. MULTNOMAH COUNTY.

421

Counsel for Parties.

It was contended in the Court of Appeals of Kentucky in
the present case that its ruling, when the case was first before
it, was different from its subsequent ruling in Snyder v. Mount
Sterling 2Vational Bank,. That court conceded that the two
cases were not in harmony on the question whether the bank
could recover the usurious interest embraced in the renewal
notes. "Nevertheless," the court said, "we hold that the
judgment on the former appal is the law of this case." It
was the latter view which made it necessary for the appellants
to prosecute the present appeal.
As the judgment in this case did not proceed upon the
principles herein stated, but rested upon an erroneous interpretation of the statute, it must be reversed. The necessary
calculations can be made in the state court.
For the reasons stated the judgment is reversed, and the
cause remanded for furtherproceedings consistent with
this opinion.

SAVINGS

AND

APPEAL FROM THE

LOAN SOCIETY v. MULTNOM AEI
COUNTY.
CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE DISTRICT OF OREGON.
No. 69.

Argued October 29, 189?. -Decided

March, 189K.

The statute of Oregon of October 26, 1882, taxing mortgages of lands in
that State to the mortgagees in the county where the land lies, does not,
as applied to mortgages owned by citizens of other States and in their
possession outside of the State of Oregon, contravene the Fourteenth
Amendment of the Constitution of the United States.

TiE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. -Hilton W. Smith for appellant.
was with him on the brief.
Mr. John H flall for appellee.
with him on the brief

-Mr. Walter S. Perry,
Mr. T. T. Hume was

