OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Syllabus.

Sary, and the effect is to increase the cost of the article to
the consumer by adding to the price the amount of a tax in
fact not paid by the importer. For aught that appears in this
record, the sales for exportation may have been ten times as
great as those for domestic consumption, and we do not understand why the prices realized in the latter sales should be arbitrarily selected by the Government as the actual market value
or wholesale price of the articles.

HETZEL v. BALTIMORE & OHIO RAILROAD
COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUITBIA.
No. 110. Argued November 9, 189T. -Decided

January 3, 1898.

This was an action to recover damages for injury done to certain land
in the city of Washington by reason of the illegal occupation by a railroad company of the street on which the land abutted. The land constituted original lot one in square 630, and long prior to the action it had
been subdivided between the owners, and a plat thereof recorded. In
the partition it was provided that the alleys marked on the plat were
exclusively for the sole benefit and use of the sub-lots, should be private
and under the control of all owners of property thereon, and that, except
as provided, could not be closed unless by common consent. Before
the action was brought the plaintiff had becbme the owner of the fee of
all the sub-lots constituting original lot one. Reid,
(1) If the plaintiff did not own all of original lot one, she was entitled to
recover damages for any injury done to such part of it as she did
own;

(2) The plaintiff, being the owner of all the sub-lots, was entitled, under
the deed, to close the alleys altogether; and therefore it was error
to instruct the jury that she could not have conveyed a good title
to the-land marked on the plat as alleys;
(3) The plaintiff was entitled to recover such damages as were equivalent to or would fairly compensate her for the injury done to her
land by the defendant. Absolute certainty as to damages in such
cases is impossible. All that the law requires is that such damages
be allowed as, in the judgment of fair men, directly and naturally
resulted from the injury for which suit is brought. What the
plaintiff was entitled to was reasonable compensation for the
wrongs done to her.

RETZEL v. BALTIIORE & OHI 0 RAILROAD.

27

Opinion of the Court.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Frank I.
plaintiff in error.

Hackett and 1r.. Walter D. .Davidge for

Mdr. George E. Hamilton for defendant in error.
Colbert was on his brief.
MR. JUSTic- HnrLAN

Afr. 1. J.

delivered the opinion of the court.

This action was brought by the plaintiff in error to recover
damages alleged to have been sustained in consequence of the
unlawful obstruction by the defendant in error of D street in
the city of Washington.
The jury having been instructed that the plaintiff could not
recover anything more than nominal damages, returned a verdict for one cent; and for that amount judgment was entered
in her favor, but without costs. And that judgment was affirmed in the Court of Appeals of the District.
The declaration alleged that the plaintiff was seized in fee
of a certain lot of land on the corner of D and North Capitol
streets in the city of Washington, "being lot numbered one,
in square six hundred and thirty;" and that the defendant
on the 24th day of April, 1873, and thereafter at divers other
times, had wrongfully, unlawfully and injuriously obstructed
that street, by placing thereon freight cars, in large numbers,
and suffering the same to remain unreasonably long; by loading and unloading freight in the street; by using the street
for the general purposes of a freight yard; by blocking the
way with wagons and carts for the loading and unloading of
freight -the
result being that the plaintiff, as well as the
public, was prevented from passing and repassing on D street,
and more particularly from using that portion of it on which
plaintiff's lot abuts to gain access to or exit from her land;
and that the defendant still obstructs the street in the manner
stated, whereby it has "materially and seriously diminished
the value of said land and prevented the plaintiff from selling
the same, though she tried so to do."

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

The plaintiff brought a suit in April, 1873, to recover damages for this obstruction, and obtained a judgment, which
was paid. The present suit covers the period of three years
from April, 1873. The declaration in the two suits was the
same, except that in the present action the declaration contains the additional words "and prevented the plaintiff from
selling the same, though she tried so to do."
In the present action the defendant pleaded: 1. Not guilty.
2. That the plaintiff's alleged cause of action did not accrue
within three years before the institution of this suit. 3. That
the plaintiff ought not to have or maintain her suit, because
at a former term of the court she recovered judgment
against the defendant in the sum of 8843.86 in a suit at law
for the same identical cause of action, which judgment was
satisfied. Upon these pleas issue was joined in the usual
form.
The bill of exceptions states that it was undisputed that the
plaintiff owned unimproved land at the corner of D street
northwest and North Capitol street in the city of Washington; that along the side of her premises, about where the
sidewalk would be, the defendant maintained and used a railroad track for receiving and delivering freight; that the track
stopped on D street, being a siding; that the street was occupied by freight cars on the track, and carts were backed
against the cars, so that access to the plaintiff's premises on
the street was destroyed.
It was conceded that the track was maintained on the street
without authority of law.
At the trial below the plaintiff testified that she owned the
entire lot numbered one, in square 630; was joint owner with
Judge Wylie in some 28,000 feet, but became sole owner in
1872; had not used the land since January, 1870, it being
impossible to get upon it; had tried to sell it, but without
success, persons wishing to buy saying that the position of the
railroad rendered it useless to them; that there was no access
to the land from D street except on foot; that the occupancy
of the street by freight cars and the loading and unloading of
freight was continuous during the entire period covered by

HETZEL v. BALTIMORE & OHIO RAILROAD.

29

Opinion of the Court.

the present suit; that during this period she made every possible effort to sell the land, having instructed real estate
agents to sell or get an offer for purchase. She testified that
the property was directed to be sold in any way that the
agents could sell it, "to sell it or lease it or in any way to get
people to build upon it;" and that she authorized its sale, as
one lot, but "never confined them to selling the whole." On
cross-examination she said: "Of course, I. gave them the
whole lot to sell, but I did not forbid them to sell any part,
and my instructions were to make some disposition of it, so
that it could be utilized in some way; to lease it or sell it, in
whole or in part, or in any way. I always told them I
wanted to sell or lease the whole or any part of it, in order to
get buildings put up on the front of it."
The plaintiff introduced the testimony of certain real estate
agents who had been authorized to sell the property, to the
effect that the street was obstructed; that they took persons
there to buy, who objected to purchasing because of the D
street track; that they could readily have sold the lot for a
certain price per foot, but for the obstruction of the track.
She also produced the evidence "of experts as tothe value of
the land with the D street track there and with that track
removed."
It further appeared that an offer made for a part of the lot
on the corner of D street was declined by the plaintiff because
she did not choose to sell off a part, and two-persons who had
been authorized as agents to sell the property testified that
they were instructed to sell lot one as an entirety, and were
not permitted to sell in parcels.
The defendant put in evidence the record of conveyances
disclosing the title, and tending to prove that the plaintiff and
Judge Wylie had owned as tenants in common since 1855 all
of original lot one except 85 feet 10 inches -by a depth of 120
feet, which the latter owned in severalty; and that in December, 1871, they subdivided their holding into lots numbered
from 1 to 11, with alleys, according to a plat dated January,
1872, which.was put in evidence.
The plat here referred to was as follows:

OCTOB]ER TERi, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

10

20

20 -44 10
Alley
C11

8

-

110
95

0

7

M

C11

C',

10
02

0)

5

5
6

6

co
-

95
100

4

D Street, Northwest.

Upon this plat were recorded the following words: "This
is to certify that we have subdivided that part of lot 1 in
square No. 630, owned jointly by us, into the lots as laid
down in the above plat as lots 1 to 11, both inclusive, with
the alleys for their accommodation, which alleys are exclusively for the sole benefit and use of said lots."
At the time of this subdivision Judge Wylie and the plaintiff executed a deed of partition which gave sub-lots 1 to 5
inclusive in severalty to the plaintiff, and sub-lots from 6 to
11 inclusive to Judge Wylie in severalty, but did not convey
the fee in the alleys. In January, 1872, Wylie conveyed to
Tyler, and Tyler to the plaintiff, sub-lots 6 to 11 and that
portion of original lot one (35 feet 10 inches front) just mentioned as not having been held by plaintiff and Wylie in common, but did not convey the alleys as such. Those deeds read:
"Lots 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, being subdivisions of lot one, in square

HETZEL v. BALTIMORE & OHIO RAILROAD.

31

Opinion of the Court.

No. six hundred and thirty, on the ground plan of said city,
according to the metes and bounds, covenants and conditions
set forth and described in the deed of partition, dated December 28, 1871, entered into by and between Andrew Wylie
and Mary 0. his wife, and the said Margaret Hetzel, and realso
.
.
corded, with plat of subdivision annexed thereto;
all that part of said lot one in said square No. six hundred
and thirty, at the northeast corner thereof, fronting on North
Capitol street thirty-five feet and ten inches by a depth of one
hundred twenty feet, together with all the improvements,
ways, easements, rights, privileges and appurtenances to the
same belonging or in anywise appertaining, and all the remainders, reversions, rents, issues and profits thereof, and
all the estate, right, title, interest, claim and demand whatsoever, whether at law or in equity, of the said party of the
first part of, in, to or out of the said piece or parcel of land and
premises."
The partition deed above referred to contained the following among other clauses: "And the said parties Andrew
Wylie and Margaret Hetzel do and each of them doth hereby,
mutually covenant and agree to and with each other as follows: That the said Margaret Hetzel, her heirs and assigns,:
shall have the right to erect any structure or building from lot
number one on D street north over or across the alley entering from that street on condition that an open space of ten
feet in width and twelve feet in height shall at all times be
kept clear for ingress and egress for the use of the other lots
in the rear bounding on the alleys and area as designated in
said plan. Also that the said Andrew Wylie, his heirs and
assigns, being owner or owners of lots eight, nine and eleven
in said plan, and of the above-mentioned part of said lot one
in said square not embraced in this partition, but owned at
present by the said Wylie as his own individual property,
fronting 35-1 feet on North Capitol street by 120 in depth,
may at any time in their discretion close the ten-foot alley
running northward from the main area in the rear of lots
eight and nine. Also that the owner or owners of lots four
and five shall have the like privilege to close the five-foot

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

alley along the rear of lot five and part of lot six so far as the
main area aforesaid. Also that all these alleys and area shall
be private and to be under the control of all owners of property touching thereon, and except as hereinbefore otherwise
provided shall never be closed unless by common consent, and
the owners thereof and of each of said lots shall at all times
contribute their and each of their joint and equitable proportions of all proper and necessary charges for paving the said
alleys and area and keeping the same in proper condition by
means of drains, sewers or otherwise, and the same are to be
for the exclusive use of said owners. And the parties hereto
have annexed to this deed and made it part of the same for
illustration and reference, a copy of the aforesaid plan of their
subdivision. In testimony whereof," etc.
The railroad company also introduced testimony tending to
prove that since 1872 the property had been assessed for taxes
and that taxes were paid upon it as subdivided into lots from
1 to 11.
This is substantially all the evidence set forth in the bill of
exceptions.
The plaintiff presented several requests for instruction,
among which were the following:
"The jury are instructed that if they shall find that the
property in question was rendered unsalable by reason of the
alleged nuisance, and, further, that the plaintiff in good faith
was trying to sell it, an allowable method for them to estimate
the measure of damages is to ascertain what the plaintiff
might have obtained for the property with the obstruction
there and what she might have obtained for it with the obstruction removed, and allow her the legal rate of interest -that
is, six per cent - on the difference for so long a period, not
exceeding three years, as the jury shall be satisfied that she
was so continuing her efforts to sell it.
"If you shall find for the plaintiff, then having ascertained
a sum you think would on the 24th day of April, 1876, have
compensated the plaintiff, you are allowed in your discretion
to add interest, not exceeding six per centum, upon that sum
from that date, provided you shall think that such sum with-

HETZEL v. BALTIMORE & OHIO RAILROAD.

33

Opinion of the Court.

out interest is not a fair compensation for all the loss you find
that the plaintiff has sustained.
"If the jury shall find that the defendant so obstructed the
access to and egress froih the plaintiff's land that she could not
use the same as such property is generally used, then the jury
are at liberty to allow such damages as they shall find have
resulted from the act of the defendant, irrespective of any
attempt made by the plaintiff to sell the same."
Each of these instructions was refused, and to that action of
the court the plaintiff at the time duly excepted.
Thereupon, the bill of exceptions states," the court instructed
the jury that the plaintiff offered her property for sale as
a whole, and undertook to sell it as lot one; that the action
was for damages for her not being able to sell lot one; that
the testimony showed that even if she had received an offer
for lot one she could not consummate the sale, because she did
not own the fee in the alleys. This being so, and the defendant's counsel conceding that the structure was illegal, the
court instructed the jury that the plaintiff could not recover
anything more than nominal damages, and thereupon instructed the jury to find for the plaintiff for one cent damages, which was done."
1. In the opinion of the Court of Appeals it is said that
there was not a particle of evidence in the record as to the
salable or rental value of the land without reference to the
existence of the nuisance complained of, and that such facts
were essential to be ascertained in order to furnish a basis for
estimating the damages. It is clear however that there was
evidence before the jury "as to the value of the land with the
D street track thereon and with that track removed." It is
so expressly stated in the bill of exceptions. The amounts
given by the witnesses when testifying as to value were not
set out in the bill of exceptions for the reason, we infer, that
the real contest was as to questions of law arising upon the
instructions asked by the plaintiff and the ruling of the court
that the plaintiff could recover only nominal damages. The
bill of exceptions was evidently prepared with reference to
those questions. It must, therefore, be assumed, upon the
vO.. cLXIX-3

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

record, that there was evidence as to value upon which the
plaintiff was entitled to go to the jury, unless she was precluded by some principle of law from recovering anything
more than nominal damages.
2. The Court of Appeals, after observing that the instructions asked by the plaintiff were founded upon the assumption
of injury to her in respect of all the lots contained in the subdivision of original lot one, and did not propound any proper or
exact rule for estimating damages, said: 11But, apart from all
this, the evidence upon which the prayers were founded
showed a state of case quite different from that set out in
the declaration. It is not upon the evidence alone, but upon
the pleadings and the evidence applicable to the pleadings,
that the plaintiff can in any case recover, and the one must
consist with the other. The declaration here, as we have
seen, proceeds as for an injury to the entire original lot, without any reference or respect to the subdivision of that lot, and
that the lots made of the subdivision are separate and distinct parcels of ground, fully recognized and provided for by
law; and entirely ignores the fact that the plaintiff never was
in reality seized in'severalty of the original lot one, as it existed
before the subdivision, and as declared upon in the declaration. The proof produced by the defendant, showing how
lot one was originally held, and how it had been subdivided
and partitioned, and how title to all the lots was acquired
by the plaintiff, and their relation to each other and the
streets upon which they abut, entirely negatives and refutes
the case presented in the declaration, and the right of the
plaintiff to recover thereon."
Undoubtedly, the declaration claims damages for the injury
done to the entire original lot numbered one in square six
hundred and thirty. It appears that when this action was
brought the plaintiff owned all the sub-lots which, with the
alleys as marked on the plat of 1872, constituted original lot
one. If the railroad company, by its illegal use of D street,
had done injury to the land, or any part thereof, within the
exterior boundaries of original lot one, we are unable to perceive why damages might not be recovered in this action

HETZEL v. BALTIMORE & OHIO RAILROAD.

35

Opinion of the Court.

with respect to such part as, in fact, the plaintiff owned,
although she may have claimed to own more than belonged
to her. In estimating the damages, the jury could take into
-consideration the subdivision of original lot one, and eliminate
from their calculation any sub-lot belonging to the plaintiff
that was not damaged in salable or rental value by the nuisance in question. So, if the plaintiff did not own the alleys
marked on the plat, that fact could be given proper weight in
,estimating the damages she was entitled to recover; that is,
if damages were claimed, in respect of more land than belonged to the plaintiff, the recovery could have been limited
to the injury done to the part that she did own.
3. The jury were instructed that the testimony showed
-thatthe plaintiff offered her property for sale as a whole, and
undertook to sell it as a whole. This was error, for the instruction implied that the plaintiff had not put her property
on the market except as a whole; whereas the bill of exceptions shows that while there was evidence tending to prove
that she wished or preferred to sell it as a whole, there was
also evidence that the plaintiff authorized her land to be sold
in parcels or as a whole, indeed, "in any way."
4. The jury were also erroneously instructed that the action
was for damages by reason of the plaintiff not being able to
sell lot one, and that, according to the testimony, "1if she
received an offer for lot one she could not consummate the
sale because she did not own the fee in the alleys." In the
first place, the action was for damages for the injury done to
the value of the plaintiff's land, and the unnecessary recital in
the declaration that she had tried to sell did not convert the
action into one only for damages for not being able to consummate a particular sale. If the salable or rental value of
the land was substantially or materially diminished by the
defendant's illegal use of D street, she would be entitled to
recover without proving that, on a specific occasion, she tried
to sell, but failed to effect a sale. In the second place, the
plaintiff's right to damages for material injury done to the
land owned by her would not have been. defeated even if it
-were true that she did not own the fee in the alleys. If the

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

alleys had been dedicated to public use, so as to be beyond
the control of those owning the abutting lots, plaintiff would
nevertheless have been entitled to recover in this action for
any substantial diminution in the value of her land, or of
any part thereof, arising from the nuisance in question.
Apart from this, we do not perceive why she might not have
passed, by deed, the fee of the ground marked on the plat as
alleys. By the Revised Statutes of the District of Columbia
it is provided that "the ways, alleys, or passages, laid out or
expressed on any plat or subdivision, shall be and remain to
the public, or subject to the uses declared by the person making such subdivision, at all times under the same police regulations as the alleys laid off by the Commissioners on division
with the original proprietors."
Rev. Stat. D. C. ยง 480.
What were the uses, in respect of these alleys, as declared by
the persons who made the subdivision of lot one? Upon the
plat of the subdivision it is declared that the alleys "are exclusively for the sole benefit and use of said lots." And the
deed of partition between Wylie and Hetzel expressly provides
that "all these alleys and area shall be private and to be
under the control of all owners of property thereon;" that
except as provided they "shall never be closed unless by common consent," and that "the same are to be for the exclusive
use of said owners." Now, when the plaintiff became the
owner of all the sub-lots of original lot one, is it to be doubted
that she could have closed the alleys altogether and have conveyed a good title to all the land constituting the original lot
one? If this be so, it was error to instruct the jury that she
could not have made a good title in fee to the entire original
lot as one body of land, including the alleys on which the
respective sub-lots abutted.
5. It results from what has been said that the trial court
erred in i1structing the jury that the plaintiff could recover
nothing more than nominal damages. In our opinion, she
was entitled to recover such damages as were equivalent to
the injury done to her by the defendant's inexcusable and
persistent occupation and use of a public street in violation
of law and in disregard of her rights as an owner of adjacent

HETZEL v. BALTIM4ORE & OHIO RAILROAD.

37

Opinion of the Court.

property. At the trial of the first case brought by the plaintiff against the railroad company on account of this nuisance,
Judge Hagner instructed the jury that they might ascertain
from the evidence what, in the absence of the D street track,
would be the fair value of the property .in its unimproved
condition during the time covered by the declaration; and
if they found that the property during that period remained
in that condition by reason of the track maintained and used
by the defendant, then they might allow such sum as was
equal to six per cent interest on such value, if they believed
that the loss of revenue was caused wholly by the track, or
a lesser sum proportionate to the effect which the maintenance and the use of the track had in causing the lot to lie
unproductive. This was substantially the proposition of law
embodied in one of the instructions asked by the plaintiff.
What was the plaintiff's land reasonably worth, during the
period covered by the declaration, if D street had not been
occupied and used by the railroad company in the manner
disclosed by the evidence? In the absence of the defendant's
track was there a reasonable certainty that it could have been
used or sold? If so, for what purpose could it have been
profitably used, or for what sum could it have been sold?
Was it reasonably certain that neither the original lot nor
any sub-lot could have been used or sold while the street was
obstructed by the defendant's track? These were all proper
inquiries by the jury in determining what damages were
equivalent to, or would fairly compensate the plaintiff for,
the injury done.
Of course, in such inquiries, absolute certainty as to the
damages sustained is in many cases impossible. All that the
law requires is that such damages be allowed as, in the judgment of fair men, directly and naturally resulted from the
injury for which suit is brought. This is the rule which
obtains in civil actions for damages. They have their foundation in the idea of just compensation for wrongs done.
In United States T'ust Company v. O'Brien, 143 N. Y. 284,
287-289- which was an action for damages for the breach
of certain covenants contained in a lease -Mr. Justice Peck-

OCTOBER TERIM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

ham, speaking for the Court of Appeals of New York, when
a member of that court, said: "It is clear, and so it has been
held in many cases, that the rule of damages should not depend upon the form of the action. In all civil actions the
law gives or endeavors to give a just indemnity for the wrong
which has been done to the plaintiff, and whether the act was
of the kind designated as a tort or one consisting of a breach
of a contract, is on the question of damages an irrelevant inquiry. As was said by Rapallo, J., in Baker v. Drake, 53.
N. Y. 211, 220, the inquiry is what is an adequate indemnity
to the party injured, and the answer cannot be affected by
the form of the action in which he seeks his remedy." Again "In using the words 'uncertain, speculative and contingent,'
for the purpose of excluding that kind of damage, it is not
meant to assert that the loss sustained must be proved with
the certainty of a mathematical demonstration to have been
the necessary result of the breach of covenant by the defendant. The plaintiff is not bound to show to a certainty that.
excludes the possibility of a doubt that the loss to him resulted from the action of the defendant in violating his
agreement. In many cases such proof cannot be given, and
yet there might be a reasonable certainty founded upon inferences legitimately and properly deducible from the evidence that the plaintiff's loss was not only in fact occasioned
by the defendant's violation of his covenant, but that such
loss was the natural and proximate result of such violation.
Certainty to reasonable intent is necessary, and the meaning of that language is that the loss or damage must be
so far removed from speculation or doubt as to create in
the minds of intelligent and reasonable men the belief that
it was most likely to follow from the breach of the contract
and was a probable and direct result thereof. Such a result
would be regarded as having been within the contemplation
of the parties and as being the natural accompaniment and
the proximate result of the violation of the contract. . .
The proof may sometimes be rather difficult upon the question whether the damage was the just or proximate result
of the breach of the covenant. In such case it does not

In re BOARDMAN, Applicant on behalf of Durrant.

39

Syllabus.

come with very good grace from the defendant to insist upon
the most specific and certain proof as to the cause and the
amount of the damage when he has himself been guilty of
a most inexcusable violation of the covenants which were
inserted for the very purpose of preventing the result which
has come about."
We are of opinion that the Court of Appeals erred in affirming the judgment of the Supreme Court of the District.
The judgment is reversed, and the cause is remanded, with
directionsfor a new trial in the Supreme Court of the
.Districtandforfurther yroceedings consistent with this
opinion.

In re BOARDMAN, Applicant on behalf of Durrant.
ORIGINAL.

No number: Presented and denied, January 7,1898.

Application for leave to file a petition for a writ of habeas corpus will be
denied if it be apparent that the only result, if the writ were issued,
would be the remanding of the petitioner.
The action of a Circuit Court in refusing an appeal from a final order dismissing a petition for habeas corpus and denying the writ cannot be revised by this court on habeas corpus.
The fact that, when an appeal from a final order of a Circuit Court, denying
a writ of habeascorpus and dismissing the petition therefor of a person
confined under state authority, has been prosecuted to this court and the
order affirmed, the state court proceeds to direct sentence of death to be
enforced before the issue of the mandate from this court, does not justify
the interposition of this court by the writ of habeas corpus.
Where the statdtes of a State provide that execution under a sentence of
death shall not be stayed by an appeal to the highest tribunal of the State
unless a certificate of probable cause be granted as provided, and such
certificate has been refused, and application for supersedeas denied, this
court cannot interfere on habeas corpus on the ground, if Federal questions were raised on such appeal, that thereby the party condemned is
deprived of the privilege or immunity of suing out a writ of error from
this court.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

