OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

BARRETT v. UNITED STATES (No. 1).
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE

DISTRICT OF SOUTH CAROLINA.
Argued January 21, 169S. - Decided February 21, 189S.

When a bill of exceptions does not contain the evidence, it is impossible
for this court to know the ground on which the trial court proceeded in
overruling a motion on the evidence to compel the district attorney to
elect, and an exception in that regard will not be considered.
In December, 1894, when the proceedings took place which are questioned
in this case, there were not two judicial districts in the State of South
Carolina, to the territorial limits of each of which th6 jurisdiction of the
Circuit Court of the United States was confined.
The legislation on this subject from the commencement of the Government
reviewed.
BARRETT was indicted, with others, as stated in the caption
of the transcript of the record, "at a Circuit Court of the
United States for the Fourth Circuit in and for the District of
South Carolina, begun and holden at Columbia in the district
aforesaid, on the fourth Monday in November, 1894, before
the Honorable Win. H. Brawley, United States Judge for the
District of South Carolina; holding said Circuit Court according to the form of the act of Congress in such cases made and
provided," for conspiracy to commit an offence against the
United States, under sections 5440 and 5480 of the Revised
Statutes, .and, having been duly tried, was found guilty, and
sentenced to imprisonment and fine.
To review this judgment, this writ of error was prosecuted.
The indictment commenced as follows:
"United States of America, t To wit: In the Circuit Court.
District of South Carolina,}
"At a stated term of the Circuit Court of the United States
for the District of South Carolina, begun and holden at Columbia, within and for the district aforesaid, on the fourth Monday of November, in the year of our Lord one thousand
eight hundred and ninety-four, the jurors of the United States
of America within and for the district aforesaid upon their

BARRETT v. UNITED STATES (No. 1).
Statement of the Case.

oaths respectively do present that Charles P. Barrett, [and
others naming them,] together with divers other evil-disposed
persons to the jurors aforesaid unknown, late of the district
aforesaid, on the first day of July, in the year of our Lord one
thousand eight hundred and ninety-two, at Spartanburg, in
the State of South Carolina aforesaid, in the district aforesaid
and within the jurisdiction of this court, being persons of evil
minds and dispositions, wickedly devising and intending to
commit the offence against the United States hereinafter set
forth, fraudulently, maliciously and unlawfully did combine,
conspire, confederate and agree together between and among
themselves to commit against the United States this offence
-etc.,

etc."

Certain exceptions were taken to the action of the court in
refusing to sustain a challenge to the array of both grand and
petit jurors on the ground that they were drawn from both
the eastern and western districts of South Carolina, when the
alleged offence was charged in the indictment to have been
committed in the county of Spartanburg in the western district of said State; to the order of the court overruling
defendant's demurrer to the indictment on the ground that
the offence was charged to have been committed in the county
of Spartanburg, in the State of South Carolina, the same being
in the western district of said State, although the indictment
was found in the city of Columbia in the county of Richland
in the eastern district thereof; to the refusal of the court to
sustain defendant's plea to the jurisdiction on the ground that,
although the alleged offence was charged to have been committed in the county of Spartanburg, the same being in the
western district of South Carolina, the trial was sought to be
had in the city of Columbia in the county of Richland, in the
eastern district of said State; to the denial by the court of
defendant's motion that the district attorney be required to
elect on which one of several conspiracies disclosed by the
evidence to have been committed, if any, he would ask for a
conviction ; and to the refusal of the court to arrest judgment
because the grand jurors who found the indictment and the
petit jurors who found the verdict were drawn from the west-

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

ern and eastern districts of South Carolina, although the
offence was alleged to have been committed in the county of
Spartanburg in the western district; because the indictment
was found in the county of Rich and in the eastern district at
a time not authorized by law for the sitting of the United
States court for the western district, and because the trial was
had in the county of Richland in the eastern district for an
offence committed in the western district.
.Mr. Charles C. Lancaster for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Boyd for defendant in
error.
Miz. CmnEF JusTIcE FULL-EI, after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
As to the action of the court overruling defendant's motion
on the evidence to compel the district attorney to elect, the
bill of exceptions does not contain the evidence, and it is impossible for this court to know the ground on which the Circuit Court proceeded. The exception in that regard need not
therefore be considered.
In respect of the other exceptions, they all present the same
objection in different forms, namely, that the State of South
Carolina was divided into two judicial districts, and that an
indictment could not be lawfully found in the Circuit Court of
the United States held in the eastern district or a trial be
therein had, for a criminal offence committed in the western
district.
The Constitution provides that the trial of crimes shall be
had in the State "where the crime shall have been committed;
but when not committed within any State, the trial shall be
at such place or places as the Congress may by law have
directed," Art. III, § 2, cl. 3; and by Amendment VI, that
"in. all criminal prosecutions, the accused shall enjoy the right
to a speedy and public trial, by an impartial jury of the State
and district wherein the crime shall have been committed,

BARRETT v. UNITED STATES (No. 1).
Opinion of the Court.

which district shall have been previously ascertained by
law."
This indictment was found December 3; the trial had
December 6 to 11; and the defendant sentenced December 12,
1891, in the Circuit Court in session at Columbia. Were there
at that time two judicial districts in South Carolina within
the intent and meaning of the Constitution and the acts of
Congress in that behalf?
The circuit court of each judicial district sits within and for
that district; and its jurisdiction as a general rule is bounded
by its local limits. Toland v. Sprague, 12 Pet. 300, 328;
-Devoe -Manufacturing Company, Petitioner, 108 U. S. 401.
At the same time courts may be required to be held at different places in a judicial district, and prosecutions for offences
committed in certain counties may be required to be tried, and
writs and recognizances to be returned at each place, but this
does not affect the power of the grand jury sitting at either
place to present indictments for offences committed anywhere
within the district. .ogan v. United States, 144 U. S. 263.
As to where trials shall be had in a judicial district depends
entirely on the legislation upon the subject. Rosencrans v.
United States, 165 U. S. 257; Post v. United States, 161 U. S.
583.
By the judiciary act of September 24, 1789, c. 20, the then
United States were divided into thirteen districts, of which
New Hampshire, Connecticut, New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland, Georgia and South Carolina
each constituted one district, called by the name of the State,
as for instance, "South Carolina district;" while a part of the
State of Massachusetts was erected into a district "called
Maine district," and a part of the State of Virginia into a
district "called Kentucky district," the remaining part of the
State of Massachusetts being made a district "called Massachusetts district," and the State of Virginia, except so much
thereof as was thereby made the district of Kentucky, a district "called Virginia 'district." 1 Stat. 73.
The plan was to make each of the States a judicial district,
and to direct the appointment of a judge, a clerk to be ap-

OCTOBER TER11, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

pointed by him, a district attorney and a marshal, for each
district. But that part of Iassachusetts now constituting the
State of Maine and that part of the State of Virginia now
forming the State of Kentucky were erected into independent
districts under the names of "Maine District" and ":Kentucky
District," and the district court established in each was invested with the powers of a Circuit Court.
By the fourth section these districts, "except those of Maine
and Kentucky," were divided into three circuits, called the
eastern, the middle and the southern circuits; and it was provided that circuit courts should be held "in each district of
said circuits," by two of the justices of the Supreme Court
and "the district judge of such districts."
North Carolina having ratified the Constitution, November
21, 1789, Congress by the act of June 4, 1790, c. 17, 1 Stat.
126, gave effect to the judiciary act of 1789 in that State,
erecting it into a district to be called "North Carolina district," establishing a district court with one judge, and annexing the district to the Southern circuit. Rhode Island having
ratified the Constitution, May 29, 1790, a similar act to give
effect to the judiciary act was passed June 23, 1790, c. 21, 1
Stat. 128, by which Rhode Island was annexed to the Eastern
circuit.
From the first, then, district courts have been, in exceptional
instances, vested with Circuit Court jurisdiction.
On February 21, 1823, an act was passed, c. 11, entitled
"An act to divide the State of South Carolina into two judicial districts," as follows: "That the State of South Carolina
be, and the same is hereby divided into two districts, in manner following, that is to say: the districts of Lancaster,
Chester, York, Union, Spartanburg, Greenville, Pendleton,
Abbeville, Edgefield, Newberry, Laurens and Fairfield; shall
compose one district, to be called the western district, and the
residue of the State shall form one other district to be called
the eastern district. And the terms of the said district court,
for the eastern district, shall be held at Charleston, at such
times as they are now directed by law to be holden. And
for the trial of all such criminal and civil causes, as are by law

BARRETT v. UNITED STATES (No. 1).
Opinion of the Court.

cognizable in the district courts of the United States which
may hereafter arise or be prosecuted, or sued, within the said
western district, there shall be one annual session of the said
district court holden at Laurens court-house, to begin on the
second Monday in May in each year; to be holden by the
district judge of the United States of the State of South
Carolina; and he is hereby authorized and directed to hold
such other special sessions as may be necessary for the despatch of the causes in the said court, at such time or times
as he may deem expedient, and may adjourn such special sessions to any other time previous to a stated session." 3 Stat.
726.
By an act approved May 25, 1824, c. 145, entitled "An act
to alter the times of holding the Circuit and District Courts of
the United States for the district of South Carolina," 4 Stat.
34, it was provided that the Circuit Court "for the district of
South Carolina" should annually be held "at Charleston on
the second Tuesday of April; and at Columbia on the third
Tuesday of November," etc.; and that "the times of holding
the district court of the United States at Laurens court-house,
South Carolina, shall be so altered that the said court shall
hereafter convene on the Tuesday next ensuing after the adjournment of the Circuit Court of the United.States at Columbia."
On March 3, 1825, this act was amended by providing that
"the Circuit Court for the district of South Carolina at Columbia, South Carolina, shall commence on the fourth Tuesday of November, annually." 4 Stat. 124, c. 78.
By an act of May 4, 1826, c. 37, the sessions of the Circuit
Court "for the District of South Carolina" were again
changed, 4 Stat. 160; and again February 94, 1829, c. 19, 4
Stat. 335.
By the act of March 1, 1845, 5 Stat. 730, c. 39, it was provided, referring to the Circuit Court, "that the spring term
of said court shall be held in and for the district of South Carolina at Charleston, on the Wednesday preceding the fourth
Monday of March."
By an act approved August 16, 1856, c. 119, entitled "An

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

act to alter the time for holding the district court in South
Carolina, and for other purposes," 11 Stat. 43, it was provided
that so much of the act of May 25, 1824, as provided "for
holding the District Court of the United States at Laurens
court-house, South Carolina, on the Tuesday next ensuing after
the adjournment of the Circuit Court of the United States at
Columbia, be and the same is hereby repealed; and that in
place thereof the said court shall be held at Greenville courthouse, South Carolina, on the first Monday in August in each
year." And it was further provided that the jurors for said
court, grand as well as petit, should be drawn "from the inhabitants of Greenville district, South Carolina," except that
the jurors for the first term of the court should be drawn at
"the term of the district court to be holden in the city of
Charleston;" and further that "the said district court for
Greenville, in addition to the ordinary jurisdiction and powers
of a District Court of the United States, shall have jurisdiction
of all causes (except appeals and writs of error) which now are
or may be hereafter made cognizable in a Circuit Court of the
United States, and shall proceed in the same manner as a Circuit Court."
The act of July 15, 1862, c. 178, 12 Stat. 576, provided that
"the districts of South Carolina, Georgia, Alabama, Mississippi and Florida, shall constitute the fifth circuit;" and repealed the act or acts which vested circuit court powers in the
district courts for the districts of Texas, Florida, Wisconsin,
Minnesota, Iowa and Kansas; while by the act of March 3,
1863, c. 100, 12 Stat. 794, the districts of California and Oregon were constituted the tenth circuit; and so much of any'
act or acts as vested in the district courts for California and Oregon the power and jurisdiction of circuit courts was repealed.
By the act of July 23, 1866, c. 210, 14 Stat. 209, it was provided that "the districts of Maryland, West Virginia, Virginia,
North Carolina and South Carolina shall constitute the fourth
circuit."
The act of April 10, 1869, c.22, 16 Stat. 44, authorized the
appointment of a circuit judge "for each of the nine existing
judicial circuits;" but that act, by the act of July 1, 18-0, c.

BARRETT v. UNITED STATES (No. 1)..

225

Opinion of the Court.

186, was not to be construed "to require a circuit court to be
held in any judicial district in which a circuit court was not
required to be held by previously existing law." 16 Stat. 179.
In the Ku Klux Cases, tried in the Circuit Court at Columbia, in the fall of 1871, before Circuit Judge Bond and District
Judge Bryan, Mr. Reverdy Johnson objected to the issue of a
venire to summon additional grand and petit jurors "from the
body of the district" embracing the whole State, though he
admitted that "it is true that the circuit court has jurisdiction,
as a court, over the entire district of South Carolina." The
court ruled that so far as the circuit court was concerned there
was but one district in South Carolina. South Carolina Ku
Klux Trials, pp. 8, 9, 10.
The Revised Statutes were adopted June 22, 1874, (the
second edition being published in 1878,) and contain the following sections:
"SE . 530. The United States shall be divided into judicial
districts as follows:
"SEc. 531. The States of California, Connecticut, Delaware,
Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maine, Maryland,
Massachusetts, Minnesota, Nebraska, Nevada, New Hampshire,
New Jersey, Oregon, Rhode Island, Vermont and West Virginia, each, constitute one judicial district."
"SEC. 546. The State of South Carolina is divided into two
districts, which shall be called the eastern and western districts
of the district of South Carolina. The western district includes
the counties of Lancaster, Chester, York, Union, Spartanburg, Greenville, Pendleton, Abbeville, Edgefield, Newberry,
Laurens and Fairfield, as they existed February 21, 1823.
The eastern district includes the residue of said State."
"SEC. 551. A district judge shall be appointed for each district, except in the cases hereinafter provided. Every such judge
shall reside in the district for which he is appointed, .
"SEC. 552. There shall be appointed in each of the States
of Alabama, Georgia, M ississippi, South Carolina and Tennessee, one district judge, who shall be district judge for each of
the districts included in the State for which he is appointed,
and shall reside within some one of the said districts. . .
VOL. CLXI-15

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

"SEC. 571. The district courts for the western district of
Arkansas, the eastern district of Arkansas at Helena, the
northern district of Mississippi, the western district of South
Carolina and the district of West Virginia, shall have in
addition to the ordinary jurisdiction of district courts, jurisdiction of all causes, except appeals and writs of error, which
are cognizable in a circuit court, and shall proceed therein in
the same manner as a circuit court.
"SEc. 572. The regular terms of the district courts shall be
In the eastern
held at the times and places following:
district of South Carolina, at Charleston, on the first Monday
in January, May, July and October. In the western district,
at Greenville, on the first Monday in August."
"SEC. 601. The judicial districts of the United States are
divided into nine circuits as follows:

. . . Fourth.

The

Fourth Circuit includes the districts of Maryland, Virginia,
.
West Virginia, North Carolina and South Carolina.
follows:
One
established
as
"SEC. 608. Circuit courts are
for the three districts of Alabama, one for the eastern district
of Arkansas, one for the southern district of Mississippi anid
one for each district in the States not herein named ; and shall
be called the circuit courts for the districts for which they are
established."
"S1Sc. 658. The regular terms of the circuit courts shall be
held in each year, at the times and places following. .
In the district of South Carolina, at Charleston, on the first
Monday in April ; and at Columbia, on the fourth Monday in
November."
"SEC. 767. There shall be appointed in each district, except
in the middle district of Alabama, and the northern district of
Georgia, and the western district of South Carolina, a person
learned in the law, to act as attorney for the United States in
such district.

.

.

The district attorney of the eastern dis-

trict of South Carolina shall perform the duties of district attorney for the western district of said State."
Section 776 makes similar provision as to United States
marshals for said districts.
"SEC. 563. The district courts shall have jurisdiction as

follows:

BARRETT v. U NITED STATES (No. 1).
Opinion of the Court.

"First. Of all crimes and offences cognizable under the
authority of the United States, committed within their rethe punishment of which is not
spective districts, . .
capital.
"
"SEc. 629. The circuit courts shall have original jurisdic-

tion as follows: . . . Exclusive cognizance of all crimes
and offences cognizable under the authority of the United
States, except where it is or may be otherwise provided by
law, and concurrent jurisdiction with the district courts of
crimes and offences cognizable therein."
The Revised Statutes were compiled under an act of June
27, 1866, c. 140, providing "for the revision and consolidation
of the statute laws of the United States," 14 Stat. 74, the
appointment of three commissioners being thereby authorized
to accomplish the work. These commissioners were directed
to arrange the statutes and parts of statutes "under titles,
chapters and sections, or other suitable divisions and subdivisions, with headnotes briefly expressive of the matter
contained in such divisions; also with side notes so drawn as
to point to the contents of the text and with references to the
original text from which each section is compiled."
By the act of March 2, 1877, c. 82, 19 Stat. 268, the preparation and publication of a new edition of the Revised
Statutes was provided for, the work to be done by a single
commissioner, who was required to add to the marginal
references made in the previous revision.
In United States v. Lacl er, 134 U. S.624, 626, we said: "If
there be any ambiguity in section 5467, inasmuch as it is a
section of the Revised Statutes, which are merely a compilation of the statutes of the United States, revised, simplified, arranged and consolidated, resort may be had to the
original statute from which this section was taken to ascertain what, if any, change of phraseology there is and
whether such change should be construed as changing the
law.- United States v. Bowen, 100 U. S. 508, 513; United
States v. Hirsch, 100 U. S. 33; 7iyer v. Car Company, 102
U. S. 1, 11. And it is said that this is especially so where
the act authorizing the revision directs marginal references

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

as is the case here. 19 Stat. c. 82, § 2, p. 268; Endlich on Int.
Statutes, § 51."
Section 546 appears under "Title XIII. The Judiciary.
Chapter one. Judicial Districts ;" and the cross-reference in
the margin is to the act of "21 Feb. 1823, c. 11, § 1, v. 3,
p. 726."
When, then, Congress enacted this section it seems to have
construed the act of 1823, not as dividing the State into two
judicial districts, as indicated in the title of the act, but into
two districts in the sense of geographical divisions, which is in
harmony with the language used in the body of the act. At.
all events, the phraseology of section 546 is only consistent
with the conclusion that the State constituted but one judicial
district, containing two divisions, which were "called the eastern and western districts of the district of South Carolina."
And it should be remembered that there was, during all this
time, (and this has prevailed from thence hitherto,) but one
judge, one attorney and one marshal for the district of South
Carolina.
It is said that in the first draft of the commission to revise
the statutes, the commissioners recommended the adoption of
a section corresponding to section 546, in this language: "The
district of South Carolina is divided into two divisions, which
will be called the eastern and western divisions of the district
of South Carolina. The western divisioll includes the counties of Lancaster, etc., as they existed February 21, 1823. The
eastern division includes the residue of said State." And it is
argued that because section 546 was couched in its present
language, notwithstanding the recommendation, that it therefore follows that Congress intended to divide the State into
two judicial districts. We cannot concur in that view.
While the use of the word "division" might have been more
felicitous, yet we think the meaning of the statute was sufficiently plain, and that it would be inadmissible to recur to the
draft of the commissioners to create a doubt where none
existed. Moreover, it would be a much greater stretch of
construction to say that because Congress did not see fit to
use the word "division," therefore it should be held that the

BARRETT v. UNITED STATES (No. 1).
Opinion of the Court.

words actually employed, "of the district of South Carolina," were inadvertently inserted, and should be rejected
altogether.
It should be noted that by section 608 Circuit Courts were
established for each district in the States not therein named,
the States specified being Alabama, Arkansas and Mississippi
and yet that by section 571 certain district courts, including
that for the western district of South Carolina, retained circuit
court powers.
Nevertheless, it was held by Chief Justice Waite, sitting
with Judge Bond in the Circuit Court in 1877: "As to the
question of the jurisdiction of this court throughout the entire
State of South Carolina, we decide, for the purposes of this
trial, in favor of the jurisdiction. This is in accordance with
the uniform practice of the court, without objection from any
quarter, for nearly half a century."
United States v. Butler,
1 Hughes, 457, 463.
And in 1886, it was said by Simonton, J., holding the Circuit Court: "All parts of the State of South Carolina are
within the jurisdiction of this court. Its process runs all
through the State. It does not know, in the sense which
affects its jurisdiction, either the eastern or western district."
Young v. .Merchants'Ins. Co., 29 Fed. Rep. 273, 275.
However we are relieved from considering the effect upon
the jurisdiction of a Circuit Court having jurisdiction throughout a State, constituting a single judicial district, of a part of
the district being subjected to the jurisdiction of the district
court clothed with circuit court powers, as the act of February 6, 1889, c. 113, 25 Stat. 655, in terms "established a circuit court of the United States in and for the western district
of Arkansas, the northern district of Mississippi and the western district of South Carolina, respectively, as the said districts
are now constituted by law;" and withdrew circuit court
powers from said district courts.
By the act of April 26, 1890, c. 165, 26 Stat. '71, it was
provided that there should be "four regular terms of the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of South Carolina in each year, as follows: In the city of Greenville on the

OCTOBER TERT,

189'.

Opinion of the Court.

first Monday of February and on the first Monday in August;
in the city of Charleston on the first Monday of April; and in
the city of Columbia on the fourth Monday of November;"
and that "the office of the clerk of said court shall be kept in
the cities of Charleston and of Greenville, and the clerk shall
reside in one of the said cities and shall have a deputy in the
other." And although the act then went on to prescribe terms
"of the District Courts for the Eastern District of South Carolina," and "of the District Court in the Western District of
South Carolina," we think the operation of the prior sections
was not thereby affected.
It may be added that in the legislative, executive and judicial appropriation act of May 28, 1896, c. 252, §§ 7, 9, appropriations were made for the salaries (among others) of the
United States district attorney "for the eastern and western
districts of the district of South Carolina," and of the United
States marshal "for the eastern and western districts of the
district of South Carolina." 29 Stat. 140.
From this review of the statutes we are unable to arrive at
any other conclusion than that in 1894, when these proceedings were had, there were not two judicial districts in the
State of South Carolina, to the territorial limits of each of
which the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court was confined; and
that the exceptions in this regard must be held not to have
been well taken.
It is also suggested in the brief for plaintiff in error that
error supervened in that the record does not affirmatively
show the issue of the venire for the grand and petit juries;
nor that the defendant was arraigned; nor that he was personally present when the verdict was rendered and sentence
pronounced.
But the record does show that the indictment was duly returned; that motions to quash the indictment and the venire
of grand and petit juries were made and overruled; that the
defendant pleaded "not guilty" to said indictment; that the
trial came on on that issue, and a petit jury was duly empanelled and sworn; that trial was had and a verdict of guilty
returned, and sentence thereon entered; and that no exceptions

BARRETT v. UNITED STATES (No. 2).
Opinion of the Court.

were saved to any of these proceedings other than the exceptions before mentioned.
The result is that the judgment must be
Ajflrmed.

BARRETT v. UNITED STATES (No. 2).
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF SOUTH CAROLINA.
No. 175. Argued January 21, 1898.-Decided February 21, 1898.

It having been decided in Barrett v. United States, ante, 218, that the State
of South Carolina constitutes but one judicial district, it follows that the
indictment in this case was properly remitted to the next session of the
District Court of that district.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

-Mr. Charles C.-Lancasterfor plaintiff in error.
.Afr. Assistant Attorney General Boyd for defendants in
error.
MR.

CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER

delivered the opinion of the

court.
This was an indictment for conspiracy under section 5440
of the Revised Statutes, found by the grand jury "in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the District of South
Carolina begun and holden at Columbia within and for the
district aforesaid, on the fourth Monday of November, in the
year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and ninety-four,"
and on motion of the "United States attorney for the District of South Carolina," was by the Circuit Court, January
30, 1895, by order entered on its minutes, "remitted from the
Circuit Court of the United States for the district of South
Carolina to the district court df the United States for the
western district of South Carolina."

