CHICAGO, &c., RAILROAD v. GUFFEY.
Statement of Facts.

encumbrancer for value, with equities superior to those of the
plaintiff, because it appeared that the conveyance to him was
"merely as a security for a precedent debt," without his paying or agreeing to pay any other consideration or relinquishing
any remedy or right he may have had.
Without further discussion of the authorities cited by counsel, all of which have been carefully examined, we are of bpinion
that the claim of the bank td be a subsequent mortgagee in
good faith cannot be sustained, because the mortgage of February 11, 1881, although first filed, was not given in consideration of its having surrendered, qr agreed to surrender, or to
postpone the exercise, of any'substantial right it had against
the mortgagors, but merely as collateral security for past
indebtedness. Under such circumstances, the mortgage which
was prior in time confers a superior right.
Other questions of a minor character are discussed by counsel, but it is not deemed necessary to consider them.
We perceive no error in the record, and the judgment is
Afflirmed.

CHICAGO, BURLINGTON, AND KANSAS CITY
RAILROAD v. GUFFEY.
ERROR TO THE SUFrtEME CoUr OF THE STATE OF MISSOURI.
Argued January 3, 1887.-Decided March 7, 1887.

The provision in the state constitution of Missouri of 1865, that "no property, real or personal, shall be exempt from taxation, except such as may
be used exclusively for public schools, and such as may belong to the
United States, to this state, to counties, or to municipal corporations
within the state" applies to stock issued forpconstructing branches of the
St. Joseph and Iowa Railroad in that state under the provisions of the
statute of March 21, 1868, " to aid in the building of branch railroads in
the state of Missouri"; and the provision in the charter of that railroad
company, enacted in 1857, that its stock should be exempt from taxation
for state and county purposes, does not apply to the stock issued fbr
branches constructed under the act of 1868.
Immunity from taxation by the state will not be recognized, unless granted
in terms too plain to bemistaken.

OCTOBER TERAI, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

Tis action was instituted in conformity with a local statute
of Missouri, to recover certain state and county taxes alleged
to be due upon the property of the plaintiff in error, situate in
Putnam County in that state. The Federal question is stated
in the opinion of the court.
i.ft. Jeff. Chiandler for plaintiff in error. 31'. L. T. Hfatfiekl and _fr. A. IF. Aiullinq were with hhn on the brief.
.;. ,ohn P. Buetler for defendant in error. .M-r. B. G.
Boone, Attorney General of Missouri, and hXr. S. P. _uston
filed a brief for same.
Mr.

JuUSTICE

HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.

The judgment which this writ of error brings up for review
affirms the liability to taxation, in Missouri, for state and county
purposes, of what was formerly known as the Central North
Missouri Branch of the .St. Joseph and Iowa Railroad, more
recently named the Linneus Branch of the Burlington and
Southwestern Railway Company, and now owned by the Chicago, Burlington, and Kansas City Railroad Company, a corporation organized under the laws of Missouri. The latter
company claims to have succeeded to all the rights, privileges,
and immunities granted to the St. Joseph and Iowa Railroad
Company in its charter of 1857, among which was an exemption
of its stock from taxation for "state and county" purposes.
As the construction which the Supreme Court of Missouri
places upon certain legislation, enacted after the charter of the
St. Joseph and Iowa Railroad Company was granted, is inconsistent with the exemption claimed, the controlling question,
on this writ of error, is whether the local statutes, as interpreted and applied by that court, impair the obligation of any
contract which the company had with the state and thereby
deprive its successor, the plaintiff in error, of any rights secured
by the Constitution of the United States.
That questi6n mainly depends upon the construction of an
act of the General Assembly of 'Missouri, entitled "An act to
aid in the building of branch railroads in the state of Missouri,"
approved March 21, 1868.

CHICAGO,

&c., RAILROAD v. GUFFEY.
Opinion of the Court.

That act took effect from its passage, and is as follows:
"SEciox 1. Any railroad company in this state authorized by
law to build branches, and wishing to avail themselves of the
provisions of this act, shall, by its board of directors, pass, and
cause to be entered upon its records, a resolution setting forth
such desire, and designating the name under which such branch
shall be built, its point of intersection with its main line and
general course, a certified copy of which resolution shall be
filed with the secretary of state, after which they shall be governed by the provisions of this act.
"SEc. 2. Whenevdr any such railroad company shall undertake the construction of a branch designated, as provided in
the first section of this act, they shall receive donations or subscriptions to stock to aid its construction'in the name of such
branch, which shall be expressed in tli- certificate of stock
issued; the cost and expenses of constructing and operating
such branch shall be kept separate and distinct from expenses
on the main line. They may borrow money and issue bonds
secured by mortgage on such branch road to aid in its construction, an.l, in general, may operate, lease, sell, or consolidate
with any connecting road, distinct and separate from their main
line, and in any other way, may manage or dispose of such
branch, as by law they may be authorized with reference to
their main line, and separate therefrom.
"S i. 3. Any branch road so constructed shall not be holden
for any debt, lien, or liability of the main line, nor shall the
main line be holden for any debt, lien, or liability of such
branch. Any dividends of profits arising out of the business
of such branch road shall be divided among the stockholders
in said branch, and in all respects the interest of the stockholders in the branch shall be kept separate and distinct from
the interests of the stockholders in the main line
"SEc. 4. The holders of stock in any railroad company which
was subscribed in aid of the construction of a branch road,
according to the provisions of this act, shall have the same
rights as other stockholders in the company in the choice of
officers; but, in all matters directly and specially affecting the
interests of such branch road, the stockholders in such branch

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

shall control, and, for such purpose, the directors, under their
by-laws, may, or on the petition of parties representing -onetenth of such stock shall, call a meeting of the siockholders in
such branch, setting forth the object of such meeting; and at
any such meeting such stockholders may instruct the board of
directors in all matters relating especially to their interests,
and they shall be governed by such instructions, if not inconsistent with the laws of the state ajd the powers of, such conipany." Laws Missouri, 1868, p. 90.
The branch road in question was constructed under the provisions of that statute. That fact distinctly appears from the
preamble and resolutions adopted by the board of directors of
the St. -Joseph and Iowa Railroad Company, March 25, 1871
( a certified copy thereof being-filed April 19, 1871, in the office
of the secretary of state of Missouri,) and expressly stating the
purpose of the company to avail itself of the provisions of the
act of 1868 in building this branch road.
The statute, it will be observed, does not exempt from taxation stock subscribed in aid of the construction of the branch
roads for which it makes provision. But as it applies to railroad compames, "authorized by law to build branches," and
as the St. Joseph and Iowa Railroad Company was authorized
by its charter of 1857 to build such branch roads as it deemed
proper, State ex. 'el., &c., v. County Court of Sullivan County,
51 Missouri, 822, 531, it is contended that the exemption, by
the company's original charter, of its sfock from taxation for
state and county purposes, extends to stock subscribed in the
name and xclusively for the benefit of the branch road constructed under the act of 1868.
When that statute was passed, the constitution of Missouri
of 1865 declared that "no property, real or p~rsonal, shall be
exempt from taxation, except such as may be used exclusively
for public schools, and such as may belong to the United
States, to this state, to counties, or to municipal corporations
within this state." Art. 12, ยง 16.
As, perhaps, every railroad company, organized under the
laws of the state' prior to the adoption of the constitution of
1865, had general authority to construct branch roads, it is

CHICAGO, &c., RAILROAD v. GUFFEY.
Opinion of the Court.

clear that the construction of the act of 1868, for which the
appellant contends, cannot be accepted, except upon the theory
that the legislature intended to evade the constitfitional.inhibition upon exemptions of property from taxation; for it is
plain, from the provisions of the act of 1868, that the roads
which it authorized to be built, although called branch roads,
are, for all purposes of separate ownership and management,
independent lines, quite as distinct from the main lines as if
constructed and operated by other and different corporations.
Such provisions as are to be found in that statute are rarely
ever found in legislative enactments. .An analysis of them
shows that any "branch" road constructed under it must be
designated by the name under which it is built;*donations and
subscriptions in aid of it must be received in that name; the
cost of construction and management must be kept separate
and distinct from expenses incurred on the main line; money
may be borrowed and bouds issued secured by mortgage on
the branch only; the branch road- may be sold, operated,
]eased, or consolidated with any connecting road of another
dorporation, or disposed of separately from the main line; it
is liable only for its own debts, and -not for those of the mainline; profits arising out of the business of such branch road
can be divided only among its stockholders, and their interests
are to be kept digtinct from those of the stockholders of the
main line; and the board of directors of the company owning
the main line are required in all matters relating especially to,
the interests of the stocklolders of the branch road, to follow
all instructions given by the latter, without regard to their
effect upon the main line. In other words; the stockholders of
a branch road constructed under the act of 1868 constitute, in
effect, a separate organization, having no connection whatever
with the stockholders of the main line, except that the main
line and the branch road are, for purposes of convenience, managed. by the same board of directors. It may be coiceded, for
all the purposes of this case, that if the St. Joseph and Iowa
Railroad Company, or the company which succeeded to its
rights, privileges, and immunities, had built a branch road under the charter of 1857, it could, in respect to that branch, have

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

stood upon the exemption contained in its charter. Any stock
issued by it, and sold to aid in the construction of such a branch
road, would, in that case, have been on the same footing in all
respects as other stock it may have issued; and its main and
branch lines would have been parts of the same system, controlled by the board of directors as they deemed prope,. But
the company elected not to adopt that course, for the reason,
perhaps, that it could not, in that mode, have raised the money
necessary to build a branch road. In the condition in which all
the railroads of Missouri were left by the civil war, it would
have been difficult to raise money to build branch roads, if their
future was to be endangered by connection with main lines
which needed repairs, and the corporations owning which were
without credit. It was, doubtless, for that reason, the St.
Joseph and Iowa Railroad Company, instead of constructing a
branch road, under the charter of 1857, determined to avail
itself of the provisions of the statute of 1868, which permitted
it to construct and maintain what is called a branch road, but
what, in fact, would be a road having only nominal connection
with the main line of the company.
The branch roads to which the charter of the St. Joseph and
Iowa Railroad Company referred were, in our judgment, such
as would be subject to the same control and management as
its main line, and not roads that were branch roads only in
name, but were distinct lines, operated sblely with reference to
the interests and pursuant to the directions of those holding
stock therein, irrespective of the necessities of the maii line.
To avoid the conclusion that there was a purpose to devise a
plan whereby railroad property should be exempt from taxation, which the constitution of 1865 intended should be taxed,
we must assume that the legislature intended to invite railroad
corporations having general power under their charters to construct branch roads, to waive the exercise of such power, and
construct roads under the provisions of the act of 1868 which,
although not grahting an immunity from taxation, yet afforded
peculiar protection to those whose money might be used in
such construction.
To say the least, it is not clear that the legislature intended

SCHLEY v. PULLIAN

CAR COMPANY.

Syllabus.

that the exemption from taxation, given by such charters as
that granted to the St. Joseph and Iowa Railroad Company,
should be extended to branch roads constructed under the act
of 1868. As that statute does not grant immunity from taxation to roads constructed under its provisions, and as the sys-

tem established by it is complete in itself without reference to
other legislative enactments, the present claim to exemption
must be denied; for it is the settled doctrine of this court that
an immunity from taxation by the state will not be recognized
unless granted in terms too plain to be mistaken. Iviovienee
Bank v. Bill'ngs,4 Pet. 514 ; Philadelphia,TFWibnington. & BaltnoPe Railroad v. i[afyoand,10 How. 376; Ofernphi.s & ittle
Rock Railroad v. Com mis~'oners, 112 . S. 609, 617; South,westernRailroadv.TV5ight, 116 U. S. 231, 236; '7"ksburg,&c.,
Railroadv. Dennis, 116 U. S. 665, 667.
As our conclusion upon this point accords with that of the
state court, and is sufficient to dispose of the whole case, we
omit any consideration of other questions presented in argument.
Judgment a/flrmed.

SCI LEY v. PULLMAN CAR COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIERCUIT COU1RT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR THE

NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
Submitted January 6, 1887. - Decided March 7, 1887.

An irregular act of practice by an attorney of record rebuked.
A deed, dated May 26, 1856, by C. L., grantor, described as "sister and heirat-law of H. M.," and as "of the county of St. Ciair and state of Michigan," which conveyed to the grantee a tract of land in Illinois, and was
signed and sealed by C. L. and by W. L., the name of W. L. not appearing in the granting clause of the deed, and which was acknowledged
May 27, 1856, by said "C. L. and W. L. her husband," held sufficient to
pass said title of husband and wife, under the statute of Illinois of :February 22, 1847, then in force, respecting the conveyance of lands or real
estate situate in Illinois by a ferne covert not residing within the state,
and respecting her joining with her husband in the execution of the
deed.
A magistrate's certificate, attached to a deed of land in Illinois, that on the
27th of May, 1856, personally came C. L. and W. L., her husband, "known

