FOURTH NATIONAL BANK v. FRANCKLYN.

7'47

Syllabus.

that the cause was finally heard upon the report of the referee,
the exceptions thereto of the defendant Paker being overruled,
and the report of said referee being in all things'confirmed,
except as modified and altered by the findings and conclusions'
of the court itself. It thus, appears with certainty that the

transcript contained all the evidence introduced by the parties
on the trial in'the court below. It follows tha- Parker's appeal
had been duly taken and perfected, "and the cause had been

properly transferred from the District to the Supreme Court
of the territory; and that the latter, having acquired jurisdiction theieof, should have proceeded in the exercise of its jurisdiction to hear and determine the same upon its merits. For
the failure to do so
The writ of mandamus must "'ssue. It i aocoringly so

ord, red.

FOURTH NATIONAL. BANK OF NEW YORK v.
FRANCKLYN.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTH7RN DISTRICT OF 2NEW YORK.
Argued January 14, 1887.--Decided March 21, 1887.

Where the statutes of the state which'creates a corporation, making the
stockholders liable for the corporate debts, provide a special remedy, the
liability of a stockholder can b3 enforced in no other manner in a court
of the United States.
Under the statutes of Rhode Island, making the stockholders of a manu-.
facturing corporatiou liable for its debts until its capital stock has beta
paid in and a certificate thereof recorded;..aid originally providing tht
the property of stockholders might be taken on writ of attachment. or
execution issued against the corporation, or the creditor might have his
remedy against the stockholders by bill iu equity; and since modified
by enacting that all proceedings to enforce the liability of a stockholder
for the debts of a corporation shall be either by 'suit in equity or
by action of debt on the judgment obtained against the corporation;
a creditor of a Rhoda Island corporation cannot bring an action at
law against the executor of a stockholder In the -Circuit Conrt of the
.United States in NeX' York, without having obtained a judgment agdinst
.the corporation, even if the corporation has been adjudged bankrupt.

14748,

OCTOBER TERM, .1886.
Statement of Facts.

Tois was an action at law, brought Decembei 10, 1879, by
a iiational bank against the executpr of 'Edwin Hoyt, a stockholder in the Atlantic De Laine Company, *to recover the
amount of a debt for upwards'.of $100,000, due from that corporation to the plaintiff on, promissory notes made and payable
in December, 1873, and January, 1874.
The parties duly waived a jury, and submitted the case to a
referee under a;rule of court;. and alsq agreed in writing upon
"a statement of certain of the facts in this action," which
defined, the amount of -the debt due from the corporation to
the plaintiff, and the material parts of the rest of which were
as follows:

The Atlantic De Laine Company was a manufacturing
corporation, established in the State of Rhode Island,. under a
charter granted in 1851 by the General Assembly of that state,
which fixed and limited its capital stock at $300,000, and by seqtion 8 of which "the liability of the members and officers of this
6orporation for the debts of the company shall be fixed and
limited by,and the corporation, its members and officers, shall
in all respects be subject to, the provisions, of an act." mentioned below. [Rhode Island Laws'of May Session, 1851, pp.
33-136.]
"Fourth. In and by an act entitled ' An act in relation to
manufacturing corporations,' passed at the June session of 1874
by the aforesaid general assembly of the State of Rhode Island,
It was provided, among other things,- as follows: 'The members of 'every, manufacturing company that shall be hereafter
incorporated shall be jointly and severally liable for all debts
and contracts made and-entered into by such company until the
whole ainount of the capital stock, fixed, and limited by the
charter of said company, or by vote of the company in pursuance of the charter, shall have been paid in, and a certificate.
thereof shall have been made, and recorded in a book kept for
that purpose in the office of the city or town clerk of the city
or town wherein the manufactory is established, and no longer,
except as heteinafter provided.'
"It was also therein provided that 'When the stockholders
in a manufacturing company shall be liable, by.the provisions

FOURTH NATIONAL B ANK V. FRANCKLYN.

749

Statement of Facts.

of this act, to pay the debts of such company, or any part
thereof, their persons and property may be taken thereior, on
any writ of attachment or execution issued against the company for such debt, in the same manner as on writs and executions against them for their individual debts. The person to
whom said officers or stockholders may render themselves
liable as aforesaid may, instead of the proceedings aforeiien.
tioned, have his remedy against said officers or stockholders
by a bill iv. equity in the Supreme Court.' [Rhode Island Laws
of June Session, 184,7, pp. 30,.35.]
"The foregoing provisions were substantially continued in
force by chapter 128 of the revision of the statutes of the State
of Rhode Island of 1851, and by chapter 142 of the revision of
said statutes Of 1872, and continued to be, and at all times
mentioned and set forth herein were, and still are, in full force
and effect as statutes of the State of Rhode Island."
The whole amount of the capital. stock of the Atlantic De
Laine Company was never paid in, nor a certificate, filed, -as
required by these provisions. Hoyt was a resident of New
York, and a stockholder in that company, from its incorporation until his death in May, 1874. He left a will, under which.
letters testamentary were issued to the defendant in New York;
.but it was never proved in Rhode Island, nor were letters testamentary or of administration upon his estate ever issued
there.
"Tenth. :No writ of attachment or execution has ever been
issued against the Atlantic De Laine Company for or on account
of the claim of the plaintiff upon the aforesaid promissory notes;
and no suit in equity has ever been begun in the Supreme Court'
of Rhode Island against any of the officers or stockholders of
the Atlantic De Laine Company, founded upon the plaintiff's
claim herein.
"Upon the 30th day of March, 1814, the said Atlantic De
Laine Company was duly adjudicated a bankrupt bjr the United
States District Court for the District of Rhode Island."
The referee found the facts as agreed by the parties; and,
against the objection and exception of the plaintiff, admitted
in evidence the reports of the cases, adjudged in the Supreme

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Argdment for Plaintiff in Error.

Court of Rhode Island, of lVew England Bank v. StockholdeAs
of NSewport -Factory, 6 R. I. 154, and .l1oies v. )Sjrague, 9
R. L 541, as proof of the law of Rhode Island. and found the
following as an additional fact:
"Twelfth. Prior to the making of the aforesaid notes, it
had been judicially determined by the Supreme Court of the
State of Rhode Island, that court being the highest judicial
tribunal of the said state, that the remedies provided in favor
of creditors of corporations therein referred to against their
stockholders by said act of June Session of 1847 were exclusive
of, and did not include, the remedy of an action in favor of
such creditor against such stockholder."
"Upon the foregoing facts," the referee reported as a conclusion of law, that the defendant was entitled to judgment.
The court confirmed his report, specially found the facts as
stated by him, and gave judgment -for the defendant. The,
plaintiff sued out this writ of error.
Mr. Benjamin H. Bristow (3fr TVilliam S. Opdyke was
with him' on the brief) for plaintiff in error cited: Hawthornev.
Calf, 2 Wall. 10; Flash f. Conn, 109 U. S.371; Cuykendall
Cullough,. 1 N. Y.
v. Miles, 10 Fed. Rep. 342; Corning v. .Xc
47 ;1 Wiles v. Suydam, 64 N. Y. 73; .Afills v. Scott, 99 U. S.
25; .,Bnkof the United States v. Donnally, 8 Pet. 361, 372;
.Aioies v. Sjrague, 9 R. I. 541, .557; Knowlton, v. Ackly, 8
Cush. 93: James v. Atlantic Do Laine Co., 11 Bankr. Reg.
290; Lowry v. Inman, 46 N. Y. 119; Pollard v. Bailey, 20
Wall. 520; Penniman's Case, 103 U. S.714; Erickson v. _TVesmith, 15 Gray, 221 ; 2 Erickson v,.Yesmith, 4 Allen, 233; .Railway Co. v. lfhitton, 13 Wall. 270.; Cowles v. l.1ercer County,
7 Wall. 118 ; Le Boy v. Beard, 8 How. 451 ; Da'vis v. James,
10 Bissell. 51 ;.Suydam v. Broadax, 14 Pet. 67; Union Bank
v. Jolly,,18 How. 503; HVyde v. Stone, 20 How. 170; Warren
v. Wisconsin IValley Railroad, 6 Bissell, 425; Rocky Hountam Bank v.. Bliss, 89 Y. Y. 338; Painev. Stewart, 33 Conn.
516, Bailey v. Hollister, 26 N. Y. 112; Chase v. Lord, 7.7
N. Y. 1; New England Bank v. Stockholders of .Yewport Fac'
iory, 6 R. I. 154;.3 Bacon v. Pomeroy, 104 AtMass. 577, 582.
' S. C. 49 Am. Dec 287.

-2S. 0. 77 Am. Dec. 78.

3 S. 0.75 Am. Dec. 688.

FOURTH NATIONAL BANK v. FRANCKLYN.

751

Opinion of the Couit.

.Jr. Williarm, Allen Butler for defendant in error cited:
Pollard v. Bailey, §0 Wall. 520; Lowry v. Inman, 46 N. Y.
119, 120; Railway Co. v. Whitton, 13 Wall. 270 Cowles'v.
.Afercer County, 7 Wall. 118; Moies'v. prague, 9 R. I. 541;
Fairfield v. Gallatin County, 100 U. S. 47, and cases cited;
Post v. Supervisors, 105 U. S. 667; XNorton v. Shelby County,
118 U. S. 425; Jessup v. Carnegie, 80 N. Y. 441; .Aerriek v.
Santvoord, 34 N. Y. 208; Patterson v. Baker, 34 Hlow. ]Pr.
180; Pennma 's Case, 11 R. I. 333; . C. 103 U. S. 714;
Pennington v. Gibson, 16 How. 65 ; Hardmannv. Bowen, 39
N. Y. 196, 199; Fiortierv. iLew Orleans Bank, 112 U. S. 439;"
Xltarine Bank v. Fulton Bank, 2"Wall. 252.
1MR. JusTicE GRiy, after stating the case as above reported,"
delivered the opinion of the court.
This was an action'at law, brought in the Circuit Court of
the United States for the Southern District of New Yor, by
a creditor of a. Rhode Island manufacturing corporation,
against the executor of a stockholder in that corporation, to
enforce the liability which the statutes of Rhode Island impose
upon stockholders in such corporations for the corporate debts.
In the court below, statutes and decisions of Rhode Island
were agreed or proved and found as facts, in seeming forgetfulness of the settled rule that' fhe Circuit Court of the United
States, as well as this court on appeal or error from that court,
takes judicial notice of the laws of every state of the Union.
Hlanley v. Donoghe, 116 U. S. 1, 6, afld cases -there' collected.
No reference was made to the statute of 1877, c. 600, to which"
the plaintiff has now referred, and which repeals and modifies.
in some respects the statutes agreed and found in the record to
be still in force; and it is contended for the defendant that
this court should not review a judgment-on a- ground which
was not presented to the court below. That is doubtless the
general rule. M ein v. Russell, 19 Wall. 433; Badger v. hanlett, 106 U. S. 255. But it would be unreasonable to apply it
when the effect would be to make the rights of the parties
depend upon a statutb which, as we :koW, and are judicially

OCTOBER TERM., 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

bound to know, is not the statute that governs the case. And
under either statlte the result is the same, as will appear-by a
sketch of the history of the legislati6n nd'of its judicial construction, and a consideration of the principles upon which that
construction rests.

The statutes of Rhode Island, upon which the case was
argued and decided in the Circuit Court, were sections 1 and 14
of the manufacturing corporation act of 1847, reenacted in the
Revised Statutes of 1851, c. 128, g§ 1, 19, 20, and in the General Statutes of 1872,'c. 142, §§ 1, 20, 21.
By the first section of each of those statutes; the members
of every manufacturing company afterwards incorporated
"shall be jointly. and severally liable for all debts and con'
tracts made and -entered into by such company," until the
ivhole amount'of the stock shall have been paid in, and a cer'tificate thereof made and recorded -in a certain public office;
and ,by the other sections, when the stockholders shall be so
liable to pay the debts of the company, or any part thereof,
"their persons and property may be taken therefor, on any
Writ of attachment or execution issued against'the company
for such debt, ih the same manner as on writs and executions
against them for their individual debts;" or, the creditor may,
instead of such proceedings, have his remedy against the stockholders by bill in equity.
These piovisions were substantially copied-from the Revised
Statutes of Massachusetts of 1836, c. 38, §§ 16, 30, 31, as clearly
appears on a comparison of the. statute books of the two states,
and as has been expressly recognized by the Supreme Court of
Rhode Island. .foies v. Sjprague, 9 R. I. 541, 544.
The provisions of the Revised Statutes of Massachusetts, as
well as the similar provisions of the earlier statutes therein
.mbodied and renacted, were always const 'ued by the Supreme-Judicial Court of ]assachusetts to allow the stockholders to be charged for the debts of the corporation by no other
form of proceeding than that given by the statutes themselves.
This .was clearly laid down, before the enactment of the
statute in Rhode Island,'in judgments delivered by Chief
Justice Shaw, as follows'-. "The individual liability of stock-

FOURTH NATIONAL BANK v. FRANCKLYN.

753

Opinion of the Court.

holders, created by the statute of 1808, was of a particular and
limited character, and could only be enforced in the manner
pointed out by the statute." Ripley v. Sanzpson (1830), 10
Pick. 370, 372. "The construction uniformly put upon St.
1808, c. 65, § 6, has been, that it was a new remedy, given by
statute, and as the mode of pursuing it was specially pointed
out, that mode must be pursued; that it did not create a legal
Zelton v. Phillips
liability, to be enforced by an action."
(184:1), 3 Met. 61, 62. "This liability of an individual to satisfy
an execution on a judgment to which he was not a party, and
to which he had no opportunity to answer, is created and regulated by statute, and is not to be extended, by construction,
beyond the plain enactments of the statute, as found by express provision or necessary implication."
Stone v. Tiggi.
(1842), 5 Met. 316, 317. See also Gray v. Cofin (1852), 9 Cush.
192 , 199.
That court accordingly held in Ripley v. Sampson, above
cited, as well as in the earlier case of (2"ild v. Cojfir (1820), 17
Mass. 64, and in the later case of Dane v. Dane .Manufacturing Co. (1860), 14 Gray, 488, that an execution against a corporation could not be levied on the estate of a stockholder who
(lied before the commencement of the action; in .Celtom v.
lhillips, above cited, as well as in Bangs v. Lincoln (1858), 10
Gray, 600, that the statute liability of a stockholder was not a
debt provable against his estate in insolvency; in Stane v.
]r-ggin, above cited, that the estate of a stockholder, though
attached on mesne process in an action against the corporation,.
could not be taken in execution on the judgment in that action,
without fist making a demand upon the officers of the corporation for payment or satisfaction of the execution; and in.
.Enowltan v. Ackley (1851), 8 Cush, 93, in accordance with the
opinion of Chief Justice Shaw in..Xelton v. Phillips, above
cited, that a creditor of a corporation could not maintain an
action at law against a stockholder.
In 1869, before the debt was contracted on which this action:
was brought, the Supreme Court of Rhode Island, in accordance with Xnowlton v. Ackley and the other Massachusetts
cases, above referred to, applied to the statute of Rhode Island
VOL. cxx- 48

OCTOBER TERAI,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

the rulethat "when a statute creates a right or liability and
prescribes a remedy, the remedy prescribed is the only remedy ;" and, while leaving open the' question whether the statute liability of a deceased stockholder survived in any manner
at law against his estate, adjudged that at all events his estate
could not be charged, either at law or in equity, except in the
mode of pioceeding prescribed by the statute, and therefore
such a liability could not be -proved before commissioners on
the insolvent estate of a deceased stockholder. .7oies v.
Sprague, 9 R. I. 541. So in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Rhode Island, Judge Shepley and
Judge Lowell held that the liability of a stockholder under
that statute, unless liquidated and ascertained by a decree 'in
equity, was not adebt that could be proved against his estate
under the Bankrupt Act of the United States; and Judge
Lowell's decision was affirmed by this court, without any contest upon that point. James v. Atlantic .De _Lane Co., 11
Bankr. Reg. 390 ; Garrettv. &iayles, 1 Fed. Rep. 371, 377, and
110 U. S. 288.
The statute of Rhode Island of March 27, 1877, c. 600, is as
follows:
"An act defining and limiting the mode of enforcing the
liability of stockholders for the debts of corporations.
"SEc. 1. No person shall hereafter be imprisoned, or be
continued in prison, nor shall the property of any such person
be attached, upon an execution issued upon a judgment obtained against a corporation of which such person is Or was a
stockholder.
"SEc. 2. All proceedings to enforce the liability of a stockholder for the debts of a corporation shall be either by uit in
equity, conducted according to the practice and course of equity,
or by an action of debt uponrthe judgment obtained against such
corporation; and in any such suit or action such stockholder
may contest the validity of the claim upon which the judgment against such corporation was obtained, upon any ground
upon which such corporation could have contested the same in
the actjon in which such judgment was recovered.
"SEc. 3. All acts and parts of acts inconsistent, herewith are
hereby repealed.

FOURTH NATIONAL BANK v. FRANCKLYN.

755

Opinion of the Court.

"SEC. 4. This act"shall take effect from and after the date
of the passa.ge thereof."
This statute permits the alternative remedy by suit in equity
whether before or only after recovering judgment against
the corporation we need not now inquire -and modifies the
previous statutes in no other respect" than by abolishing the
right to take the person of a stockholder for the debt of the
corporation; by substituting, for the taking of his property on
attachment and execution against the corporation, a new form
of remedy, by action of debt against him upon a judgment
obtained against the corporatiorn; and by authorizing him,
when so sued, either in equity or at law, to make any defence
that the corporation might have made. As it does not undertake to annul the liability, of the stockholders for the debts of.
the corporation, but only modifies the form of remedy and the
rules of evidence, it is not doubted that it is a constitutional
exercise of the .power of the legislature, even as applied to
debts contracted by the corporation before its enactment. Hawthorne v. Calef, 2. Wall. 10; Penniman's Case, 103 U. S. 714,
affirming 11 R. L 333; Ogden v. Sau ers, 12 Wheat. 213,
262. 349; Webl v. Den, 17 How. 576; Curtis v. WVitney, 13
Wall: 68; Tennessee v. Sneed, 96 U. S. 69.
Under either statut6 of Rhode Island, the debt must be established by a judgment recovered against the corporation,
before the creditor can proceed against the stockholder. The
execution under the earlier laws, and the action against the
stockholder under the existing statute, must be founded on
that judgment. In short, it is only a judgment creditor of the
corporation, who can collect a corporate debt from its stockholders, at least at law. What state of facts would be necessary to support a bill in equity by a creditor of the corToration
against one or all of its stockholders is a question not before
us. See Cambrldge Water Works v. 8$omerville .Dyeing &
Bleaching Co., 4 Allen, 239; -ew England Bank v. Stockholders of .Newport Factory, 6 R. L 154 ; 1 Smith v. Railroad
Co., 99 U. S. 398; Case v. Beauregard,101 U. S. 688.
The question of the manner in which the liability of stock1 S. C. 75 Am. Dec. 688.

OCTOBER TERMI, 1886.
Opinion of the CourL

holdesrs under the statutes of the state which creates the corporation may be enforced in the courts of the United States is
not a new one in this court.
In the leading case of Poll rd v. Bailey, 20 Wall. 520,
under a statute of the State of Alabama incorporating a bank,
and providing in one section that the stockholders should "be
bound respectively for all the debts of the bank in-proportion
to their stock holden therein," and in other se'tions that they
might be charged by bill in equity, it was held that the remedy
prescribed in these sections was the only one, and a creditor
of the bank could not maintain an action at law against the
stockholders in the Circuit Court of the United States; and
the Chief Justice, in delivering judgment, affirmed the following principles, which have been constantly adhered to'in subsequent cases: "The individual liability of stockholders in a
corporation for the payment of its debts is always a creature
of statute. At common law it does not exist. The statute
which creates it may also declare the purposes of its creation,
and provide for the manner of its enforcement." "The liability and the remedy were created by the same statute. This
being so, the remedy provided Is exclusive of all- others. A
general liability created by statute, without a remedy, may be
enforced by an appropriate common law action. But where
the provision for the liability is coupled with a provision for a
special remedy, that remedy, and that alone, must be employed." 20 Wall. 526, 527.
Pursuant to these principles, this cburt has repeatedly held,
not onlythat suits, either at law or in equity, in the Circuit
Court, by creditors of a corporation, to enforce the liability of
stockholders under a state statute, are governed by the statute
of limitations of the State; Terry v. Tubman, 92 U. S.156;
Carrol v. Green, 92 U. S. 509'; Terry v. Anderson, 95- U. S.
628; but also that the question whether the remedy in the
federal courts should be by action at law or by suit in equity
depends upon the nature of the remedy given by the statutes
of the State. .Mills v. Scott, 99 U. S.25; Terry v. Little, 101
U. S.216 ; Pattersonv. Lynde, 106 U. S.519; Flash v. Conn,
109 U. S. 371. See also Blair v.Gray, 104 U. S. 769; Chase
v. Curtis, 118 U. S. 452, 460.

FOURTH NATIONAL BANK v. FRANCKLYN.

757

Opinion of 'the Conit

The case of Flashv. Conn, 109 U. S. 371, upon which 'the
learned counsel for the plaintiff greatly relied, is in principle
quite in line with the other cases, apd was decided in favor of
the plaintiff 'because of essential differences between it and
the case at bar.
In Tash v. Corn, the statute of New York, there in question, did not direct that the stockholder should be charged by
execuition or action upon a judgment against the corporation,
and thus in effect limit the right of proceeding against a stockholer to judgment creditors of the corporation; but it allowed
any creditor, after bringing a suit against the corporation and
having an execution returned unsatisfied, to bring an independent action against the stockholder upon his original liability;
and the Court of Appeals of New York had decided, in b7eIIigtoln v. Howland, 53 Nl.Y. 371, that the fact that a corporation had been adjudged bankrupt was a sufficient excuse for
not proceeding against it, before suing a stockholder, under
that statute. In short, this court upheld a suit in the Circuit
Court of the United States in Florida, upon exactly the same
conditions on which it appeared that it would have been sustained in the courts of New York.
In the case at bar, on the other hand, neither of the statutes
of Rhode Island gives any action at law against the stockholder upon his original liability, or any right whatever of
proceeding against him at law, except by executi6n or action
upon a judgment recovered against the corporation: Before
the passage of the Rhode Island statute of 1877, it had been
determined by a decision of the Court of Appeals of New
York, nearly contemporaneous with that in S/hellington v.
Howland, above cited, and affirmed by this court, as well as
by a decision of the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts,
that proceedings in bankruptcy.against a corporation do not
dissolve it, or discharge it from its debts, or prevent any creditor from suing it for so much of his debt as remains unpaid,
and recovering a judgment against it for the purpose of charging its stockholders. Ansonia Brass & Copper 0 . v. iVew
lamp Chimney Co., 53 N. Y. 123, and 91 U. S. 656; Ckamberlin v. Hluguenot .Xanvfacturing Co., 118 Mass. 532. And

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opiuion of the Court.

there is no decision, in Rhode Island or elsewhere, so far as
we are informed, that under such a statute, a creditor of a
corporation can sue, a stockholder, without first establishing,
by judgment against the corporation, its liability for the debt
with which it is sought to charge him.
In Burgess v. Seligman, 107 U. S. 20, the question was
whether the defendant was such a holder of stock in a corporation as to be liable for its debts, and no question of the
form of the remedy was presented or considered. In Gam-ett
v.-Sayles, 1 Fed. Rep. 3M1, and 110 U. S. 288, the remedy
against stockholders was sought by bill in equity, under the
Rhode 'Island statute,, after obtaining judgment against the
corporation.
In all the diversity of opinion in the courts of the different
states, upon the'question how far -a liability, imposed upon
stockholders in a corporation by the law of the state which
creates it, can be pursued in a court held beyond the limits of
that state, no case has been found, in which such a liability
has been enforced by any court, without a compliance with
the conditions applicable to it under the legislative acts and
judicial decisions of the state which creates the corporation
and imposes the liability. To hold that it could be enforced
without such compliance would be to subject stockholders
residing out of the state to a greater burden than domestic
stockholders.
The provision of the Rhode Island statutes, which made the
stockholders of the Atlantic De Laine Company liable for its
debts, was coupled with provisions prescribing the form of
remedy, which still remain in force, except so far as they
have been modified by the later statute of the same state.
By the decisions of this court, as well as by those of the courts,
both state and federal, held within the State and District of
Rhode Island, and of the highest court of Massachusetts, where
these provisions had their origin and their first judicial construction, this liability can be enforced only in the mode prescribed by the statutes of Rhode Island. The present suit,
therefore, not being a bill in equity, or an action upon a judgwhich are the only forms of
I ment against the corporation,

BOLLES v. BRIMFIELD.
Statement of Facts.

remedy authorized by these statutes, but being an independentaction at law upon: the original liability of the stockholde,'
cannot be maintained, and the Circuit Court rightly so held.

Judgment cafflrnwd.
MIR. JUSTICE BLATCHFORD

did"not sit in this case, or take any

part its decision.

BOLLES v. BRIM:FIELD.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

FOR THE

Submitted January 6,1887.-Decided March 7, 1887.
By the act of the legislature of Illinois incorporatio, the Dixon, Peoria
and Hannibal Railroad Company, passed March 5, 1867, authority was
given to certain cities, incorporated towns, and townships, to subscribe
to its stock not exceeding 35,000. At an election duly called and held,
August 3, 1868, the town of Brimfield voted to subscribe $35,000, and at
the same time and place, but without legislative authority therefor, the
same electors voted to make an additional subscription of$15,000. March
31, 1869, the legislature passed an act reciting that the latter sum had
been voted by a majority of the legal voters in said township at said
election, and provided that said election "is hereby legalized and coufirmed, and is declared to be binding upon said township in the same
manner as if said subscription had been made under the provisions of
said charter." The township, by its proper officers, May 5, 1869, issued
bonds for both the subscriptions: -Yeld,
(1) At the time the bonds were issued there was no decision of the highest
court of Illinois denying the power of the legislature, by subsequent enactment, to legalize a municipal subscription to railroad stock which
would have been originally lawful if it had been made, in the mode !it
which it was made, under legislative authority previously granted.
(2) In such case this court is at liberty to exercise its independent judgment
as to the validity of such curative statutes.
(3) Th6 act ofr arch 31, 1869, is not in violation of the constitution of Illinois of 1848. It only gave effect to the wishes of the corporate authorities- the electors-of Brimfield, as ascertained in the customary mode.

Tis was an action at law to recover upon bonds and coupons issued by the defendant in error, a municipal corporation.

