UNITED STATES v. DUNN.
Statement of Facts.

ferences on this subject, it is to be found in the fact that while
the decree in this casewas rendered, on the 1st day of March,
1886, a suit Was commenced by the gas company .gainst the
city of Quincy, on the same causes of action, in the Circuit
Couit of Adams County, in the State of Illinois, on the 31st
day of March of the same year. This fact was brought to the
attention of the Circuit Court of the United States at the same
term in which the decree now appealed from was rendered, by
a petition to vacate and set aside the decree, which that court
overruled. It seems very obvious that the gas company, having obtained through the instrumentality of this collusive suit
by Mr. Steel a decree settling its rights against the city of
Quincy, then brought in.its own name a suit in the state court,
which it had not dared to do until those rights were adjusted
in a court of the United States.
We are of opinion that the demurrer to the plaintift's bill
ought to have been sustainedand the bill dismissed. The
decree is, therefore, reversed, and the case remanded to the
Circuit Court with 'instructionsto that efect.

UNITED STATES v. DUNhN.
APPEAL FRO1 THE COURT OF CLAIM.
Submitted January 3, 1887. -Decided

February 7, 1887.

Service by an officer of the navy as an enlisted man in the marine corps Is
to be credited to him in calculating his longevity pay under the act of
March 3, 1883, 22 Stat. 472, 473, c. 97.
The marine corps is a military body, primarily belonging to the navy, and
under control of the Naval Department, with liability to be ordered t6 service in connection with the army, and in that case under the command of
army officers.

Tns was an appeal from the Court of Claims.
stated in the opinion of the court.

The case is

OCTOBER TERMI, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

.AXr. Attorney General and - r.F. P. ]Dewees for appellant.
.J1. John Paul Jones and MrTh. Robert B. Lines for appellee.
ti. JusTicE MiLLER delivered the opinion of the court.

The plaintiff brought her suit as administratrix of the estate
of George Dunn, her husband, who died on the 29th of September, 1884, to recover the difference between what was paid
her and what she claimed should have been paid on account of
his service as gunner in the navy from the 11th day of April,
1878, until the 10th day of December, 1883. The Court of
Olaims gave'her a judgment for $2238.10. This judgment was
rendered upon the following finding of facts:
"1. George Dunn, the claimant's intestate, was appointed a
gunner in the navy, April 11, 1871, and served as such until
January 1, IS83. He was subsequently retired, and has since
died.
"2. Prior to his appointment in thQ navy, he had served in
the marine corps. He entered this corps first, June 10, 1843, in
the eleventh year of his age, as a boy bound for ten years and
twenty-two days to learn music, and June 22, 1844, was rated
as a fifer; discharged September 8, 1848.
"1R1enlisted September 9, 1848, for four years; discharged
June 8, 1849, by order of the Secretary of the Naavy, as a
minor.
"Reiinlisted August 10, 1849, for four years, as a fifer; discharged June 9, 1853.
"On the same day, to wit, June 9, 1853, he renlisted for
four years, as a fifer; discharged April 1, 1854, under a surgeon's certificate.
"Reinlisted August 31, 1854, for four years, as a fifer; discharged February 24, 1857, under a surgeon's certificate.
"Reinlisted May 19, 1857, for four years, as a fifer; discharged September 1, 1862, under a surgeon's certificate. "
"The times of actual service from (his first enlistment, June
10, 1843, to his last discharge, September 1, 1862, amounts to
sixteen years five months and twenty-six days.

UNITED STATES v. DUNN.
Opinion of the Court.

"3. Between the dates of his first enlistment and'September
3, 1853, he served on board United States vessels of war, under
the command of navy officers, for five years and two months.
"1Whereand under what command the remainder of his service was rendered does not appear.
"Conclusion of law.
"Upon the foregoing findings of facts the court decides as
conclusion of law"That the sixteen years five months and twenty-six days of
service, shown in Finding 2 to have been rendered by claimant's intestate as an enlisted man in the marine corps, should
be credited to him in calculating longevity pay under the act
of March 3, 1883. 22 Stat. 473.
entitled -to
"By so crediting this service the claimant is,
recover the sum of $2238.10."
The controversy arises upon the construction to be given to
the following clause in the act, making appropriation for the
naval service, passed March 3, 1883. 22 Stat. 473. Section 1
of that-statute makes provision for the payment of the officers
of the navy, of which George Dunn, the plaintiff's intestate,
was one at that time. After reciting the officers, clerks, and
other persons, including naval cadets, whose compensation is
embraced in the aggregate sum of three hundred thousand
dollars, the section uses this language: "And all officers of the
navy shall be credited with the actual time they may have
served as officers or enlisted men in -the regular or volunteer
army or navy, or both, and shall receive all the benefits of such
actual service in all respects in the same manner as if all said
service had been continuous and in the regular navy in the
lowest grade having graduated pay held by guch officer since
last entering the service."
The plaintiff asserted that in adjusting her. claim for her
husband's service with the accounting officers of the department she was entitled to the benefit of this provision on account of the service found to have been rendered by him in
the second subdivision of the facts as found by the court.
These accounting officers refused to make this allowance be-

OCTOBER TERMI, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

cause, as they said, the services thus rendered were in the
Marine Corps and not in the army or navy.
It must be conceded that the Marine Corps, a military, body
the regular service of the United States, occupies something
of an anomalous position, and is often spoken of in statutes
which enumerate "the Army, the Navy, and the Marine
Corps," or "the Army and the Marine Corps," or "the Navy
and the Marine Corps," in a mafier calculated and intended
to point out'that it is not identical with either the army or
the navy. And this argument is the one very much pressed
to show that service in the Marine Corps is not service in the
army or in the navy. On the other hnd, the services rendered by.that corps are always of a military charabter, and
are rendered as part of the duties to be performed by either
the army or the navy. If there are services prescribed for
that corps by the statutes of the United States, or the regulations of either the army or the navy, which are not performed
in immediate connection with the army or the navy, and under
the control of the heads of the army or navy, either civil or
military, we 'have not been made aware of it. The military
establishment of this country is divided by the general laws of
the United States into the army and the navy, and over each
of these one of the great heads of departments, called secretaries, is appointed to preside, to manage and to administer its
affairs. The administrative functions of the executive are
mostly under the President, distributed and-allotted among the
seven great departments, at the head of each of which is a
minister for that department. Such is the theory of the distribution of executive administration established by the statutes
of the United States.
The Marine Corps is a military body designed io perform
military services; ahd while they are not necessarily performed
on board ships, their active service in time of war is chiefly in
the navy, and accompanying or aiding naval expeditions.' In
time of peace they are located in navy yards mainly, although
occasionally they may be used in forts and arsenals belonging
more immediately to the army. The statutes of the United
States, in prescribing the duties which they may be. required

-in

UNITED STATES v. DUNN.
Opinion of the Court.

to perform, have not been very clear in any expression which
goes to show how far these services are to be rendered under
the control of the officers of the navy or of the army. It is
clear that they may be ordered to service in either branch;
but we are of opinion that, taking all these statutes and the
practice of the government together, they are a military body,
primarily.belonging to the navy, and under the control of the
head of the naval department, with liability to be ordered to
service in connection with the army, and in that case under
the command of army officers.
Section 1599 of the Revised Statutes of the United States
enacts that no person under twenty or over twenty-five years
of age shall be appointed from civil life as a commissioned
officer of the Marine Corps until his qualifications -forsuch service have been examined and approved under the directions.of
the Secretary of the Navy; and ยง 1600, immediately following,
provides that all marine officers shall b6 credited with the
length of time that they have been employed as officers or enlisted men in the volunteer service of the United States. Sections 1613, 1614, 1615, and 1616 very clearly place the non-commissioned officers, musicians, or privates of the Marine Corps
under the orders of the Secretary of the Navy, with reference
to their performance in the Capitol grounds, or the President's
grounds, and with reference to their rate of pay and their rations. Section 1621 declares that the Marine Corps shall at
all times be subject to the laws and regulations established for
the government of the navy, except when detached for service
with the army by order of the President, and, when so detached, shall be subject to the rules and articles of war prescribed for.the govbrnment of the army. Section 1623, which
relates to the retirement of officers with rank and pay, enacts
that, in the case of an officer of the Marine Corps, the retiring
board shall be selected by the Secretary of the N.avy, under the
direction of the President. Two-fifths of the board shall be
selected from the medical corp's of the navy, and the remainder
from the officers of the Marine Corps.
It geems to us that these provisions of the Revised Statutes,
bringing together the enactments of Congress on the subject

254

OCTOBER TERM1, 1886..
OpinioA of the Court.

of the, Marine Corps, show,that the primary position of that
body in the military service is that of a part of the navy, and
its chief bontrol is'placed under the Secretary of the Navy,
there being exceptions, when it may, by order of the President,
or some one having proper'authority, be placed more immediately, for temporary duty, with the army, and unfder the command of the superior army officers.
This view of the subject .was taken by this court in the case
Wilkes v. Dinsman, 7 Hlow. 89. Dinsman was a private in
the Marine Corps under Commodore. Wilkes in the exploring
expedition, and his term of service having expired.he entered
into a contract for regnlistment to serve until the return of
the ve sel. The act which authorized his re~n]istment applied
to'seamen and to service of anybody enligted .for thb'navy.
Dinsman was subjected to severe discipline by-the orders of
Commodore Wilkes, for which he broight'this suit in .the
nature of an action of trespass, and alleged that after the expiration of his service he was not lawfully regnlisted, as h ewas
not a seaman when enlisted for the navy, by reason of his
being in the Marine C6rps' .The court examined, into this
question and" held that. he belonged, at that time to the navy,
saying, among other things: "Though marines .axe not, 'in
some senses, 'seamen,' and their duties are in some respects,
different, yet they are, while employed on board public vessels,
persons in the naval service, persons subject to the orders of
naval officers, persons under the government of the naval code
as to punishment, and persons amenable to'the Navy Department. Their very nane of 'marines' indicate the place and
nature of their duties generally. And, beside the analogies of
their duties in other countries, their first creation here to serve
on board ships expressly declared them to be a part ' of the
crews of each of said ships.' Act of 27th March, 1794, 1 Stat.
350, ยง 4. Their pay was also to be fixed in the same way as
that of the seamen, ยง 6, p. 351. So it was again by the act of
April 27, 1798, 1 Stat. 552. And they have ever'since, been
associated with the navy, except when specially detailed by
the President for service in the army. . . . Thus paid,
thus serving, and thus governed like and with the navy, it is

UNITED STATES v. D.UNN.
Opinion of the Court.

certainly no forced construction to considar them as embraced
in the spirit of the act of 1831 by the description of persons
enlisted for the navy.'"
And referring to the act of June 30, 1834, the provision of
which is found in ยง 1621 of the Revised Statutes, "that the
said corps shall at all times be subject to and under the laws
and regulations which are or may hereafter be established
for the better government of the navy," the opinion says that
this strengthens the conclusion of 'the court, and that that
corps thus in s6ine respects became still more closely identified
with the navy.
Whatever view may be taken, it cannot be considered as a
distinct military organization, independent of the departments
of the army and navy, and under the'supervision and control
of neither of them, having no superior outside of its own
officers, except the President. Such a position is at war with
the whole policy of the distribution of power among the executive departments, as we have already shown; and while it
may be true that it is not so exclusively a part of the navy
's ships. and navy yards are, yet its general supervision and
control remain with the Navy Departmeift
We think that the act of 1883, under which this suit is
brought, providing for a credit for the actual time of service
in the army or favy, or both, is comprehensive enough to
include the "services of George Dunn, recited in the second
finding of the court, 'as they must have been rendered either in
the one or the other, - either in the army or the navy, -

and

if rendered in either, or part in one and part in the other, they
still entitle the claimant to receive compensation on the basis
of services coming within the statute.
The judment of the Court of Claims is affirmed.

