OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Counsel for Defendant in Error.

Works Company of the public streets for the distribution of
water by means of pipes laid in them, nor has it, so far as the
record shows, determined that the -public health would be
better protected, or the public comfort subserved, by supplying the people with water from the Bogue Falaya River rather
than from the Mississippi River. These are matters which
neither the appellant nor individual citizens may determine
for the constituted authorities. In what mode such questions
may be determined, so as to be binding upon the appellee,
need not be considered until they actually arise in proper
form.
The legal effect of the decree is only to prevent the St.
Tammany Water Works Company, under any power it now
has, from laying pipes, mains, and conduits, in and through
the streets of New Orleans, for supplying that city and its
inhabitants with water. It is, therefore, upon the authority
of the former case,
Aflr;ned.

EAYES v.

MISSOURI.

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF MtISSOU-RI.
Submitted January 3, 18S7.-Declded

January 17, 187.

A statute of a state which provides that in capital cases, in cities having a
population of over 100,000 inhabitants, the state shall be allowpd fifteen
peremptory challenges to jurors, while elsewherQ in the state it is allowed in such cases only eight peremptory challenges, does not deny the
equal protection of the laws to a person accused and tried for murder
in a city containiqg over 100,000 inhabitants; and there was no error in
refusing to limit the state's peremptory challenges to eight.

THE

case which makes the Federal question is stated in the

opinion of the court.
lifr. Jeff. Chandler for plaintiff in error.
.. &. B. G. Boone, Attorney General of Missouri, for defendant in error.

HAYES v. MISSOURI.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE FIELD

delivered the opinion of the court.

The IRevised Statutes of Missouri provide, that, in all capital cases, except in cities having a population of over 100,000
inhabitants, the state shall be allowed eight peremptory ciallenges to jurors, and, in such cities, shall be allowed fifteen.
Rev. Stat. Missouri, 1879, ยง 1900, 1902.
The plaintiff in error, John Hlayes, was. indicted in the
criminal court of St.. Louis, a city of over 100,000 inhabitants, by its grand jury, for the .'rime of murder in shooting
and killing one Mueller, in that city, on the 26th of August,
1881; and was tried in April, 1882, and convicted of murder
in the first degree. A new trial having been obtained from
the Supreme Court of the state, he was again tried in January, 1885, and convicted, as on the first trial, of murder in the
first degree. Judgment of death followed. (On appeal to the
Supreme Court of the state, the judgment was affirmed, and
the case is brought before us on error, upon the single ground
that -by the law of Missouri providing that, in capital cases,
in cities having a population of over 100,000 inhabitants, the
state shall be allowed fifteen peremptory challenges to jurors,
whilst elsewhere in Missouri the state is allowed in such cases
only eight peremptory challenges- the accused is denied the
equal protection of the laws enjoined by the Fourteenth
Amendment of the Constitution of the United States. When
the jurors were summoned for the trial, and bcfo.'e any peremptory challenges were made by the state, the accused
moved the court to limit the state's peremptory challenges to
eight, objecting to its being allowed more than that number.
But the motion was overruled, and the accused excepted.
And, on the trial, agairst hlis protest and objebtion, the state
challenged, peremptorily, fifteen of the forty-seven qualified
jurors.
The constitution of Missouri, and, indeed, every state of
the Union, guarantees to all persons accused of a capital
offence, or of a felony of lower grade, the right to a trial by
an impartial jury, selected from the county or city where the
offence is alleged to have been committed; and this implies

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

that the jurors shall be-free from all bias for or against the
accused. In providing such a body of jurors the state affords
the surest means of protecting the accused against an unjust
conviction, and at the same time of enforcing the laws against
offenders meriting punishment. To secure such a body numerous legislative directions are necessary, prescribing the class
from which the jurors are to be taken, whether from voters,
tax-payers, and free-holders, or from the mass of the population indiscriminately; the number to be summoned from
whom the trial jurors are to be selected; the manner in which
their selection is to be made; the objections that may be
offered to those returned, and how such objections shall be
presented, considered, and disposed of; the oath to be administered to those selected; the custody in which they shall be
kept during the progress of the trial; the form and presentation of their verdict; and many other particulars. All these,
it may be said in general, are matters of legislative discretion.
But to prescribe whatever will tend to secure the impartiality
of jurors in criminal cases is not only within the competency
of the legislature, but is among its highest duties. It is to be
remembered that such impartiality requires not only freedom
from any bias against the accuied, but also from any prejudice against his prosecution. Between him and the state the
scales are to be evenly held.
Experience has shown that one of the most effective means
to free the jury-box from men unfit to be there is the exercise
of the peremptory challenge. The public prosecutor may have
the strongest i'easons to distrust the character of a juror offered,
from his habits and associations, and yet find it difficult to
formulate and sustain a legal objection to him. In such cases,
the peremptory challenge is a prQtection against his being

I
accepted.
The number of such challenges must necessarily depend
upon the discretion of the legislature, and may vary according
to the condition of (Efferent communities, and the difficulties
in them of securing intelligent and impartial jurors. The
whole matter is under its control. ,tokes v. People, 53 N. Y.
:164; Waltde" v. _ple, 32 N. Y. 147, 159;. Comrwnwealth v.
.Dorey,.103 Mass. 412, 41& ,

HAYES

t.

MISSOURI.

Opinion of the Court.

Originally, by the common law, the Crown could challenge
peremptorily without limitation as to number. By act of Parliament passed in the time of Edward the First, the right to
challenge was restricted to challenges for cause. But, by a rule
of court, the Crown was not obliged to show cause until the

whole panel was called. Those not accepted on.the call were
directed to stand aside. If, when the panel was gone through,.
a full jury was obtained, it was taken for the trial. If, however,
a full jury was not obtained, the Crown was required to show
cause against the jurors who had been directed t6 stand aside;
and; if no sufficient cause was shown, thi jury was completed
from them.
In this country the power of the legislature of a state to
prescribe the number of peremptory challenges is limited only
by the necessity of having an impartial jury. In our large
cities there is such a mixed pppulation, th6re is such a ten-.
dency of theocriminal classes to resort to them, and .such. an
unfortunate disposition on the part of business men to escape
from jury duty, that it requires special care on the part of *the
government to secure there competent and impartial jurors.
And to that end it may be a wise proceeding on the part of
the legislature to enlarge the number of peremptory challenges
in criminal cases tried in those cities. The accused cannot
complain if he is still tried bkr an impaitial jury. He can
demand nothing more. Nortlern Paciflc Railroad v. Herbert, 116 U. S. 642. The right to challenge is the right'to
reject, not to seleet a juror. If from those who remain, an
impartial jury is obtained, the constitutional right of the qccused is maintained. In this case it is not even suggested that
the jury by which the accused was tried was not a competent
and impartial one. lie was allowed twenty peremptory challenges, and it does not appear that he exhausted them.
The Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the
United States does not prohibit legislation which is limited
either in the objects to which it is directed, or by the territory
within which it is to operate. It merely requires tifat all persons subjected to such legislation shall be treated alike, under
like circumstances and conditions, both in the privileges con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opiniou of the Court.

ferred and in the liabilities imposed. As we said in Bade,'
v. Cwii olly, speaking of the Fourteenth Amendment : "Class
legislation, discriminating against some and favorin( others, is
prohibited; but legislation which, in carrying out a public purpose, is limited in its application, if within the sphere of its
operation it affects alike all persons similarly situated, is niot
within the amendment." 113 U. S. 2t, 32.
In J1[issour'i v. Lewis, 101 U. S. 22, it was held, that the
last clause of the amendment as to the equal protection of the
laws, was not violated by any diversity in the jurisdiction of
the several courts whicl the state might establish, as to subjectmhtter, amount, or finality of their decisions, if all persons
within the territorial limits of their respective jurisdictions
have an equal right in like cases, and under like circumstances,
to resort to them for redress; that the state has the right to
make political subdivisions of its territory for municipal pur)OSes, and to regulate their local government; and that, as
respects the adninistration of justice, it may establish one
syatemn of c6urts for cities and another for rural districts. And
we may add, that the systems of procedure in then may be
different without violating any provision of the Fourteenth
.A-mendment.
Allowing the state fifteen peremptory challenges in capital
cases, tried in cities containing a population of over 100,000
inhabitants, is simply-providing against.the difficulty of securing,' in such cases, an impartial jury in cities of that size,
which does not exist in other portions of the state. So far
from defeating, it may furnish the necessary means of giving
that equal protection of its laws to all persons, which that
amendment declares shall not be denied to any one within its
jurisdiction.
We see nothing in thelegislation of Iissom'i which is repugnant to that amendment.
Die j ugment of tMe Supreme Court of that state, therefore,

is (flened.

