UNITED STATES v.' HILL.
Syllabus.

ing the accident, there being no want of care, sidll, or attention on the part of those in charge of the tow-boat, either
before or after the occurrence, in regard to the navigation or
the saving of the cargo of the Colossal.
The appellees have contended in this court that the rulings,
of the Circuit Court as to the demurrer and the plea were erroneous, but, without passing on those questions, we aMrm the
decree, for the reason stated.

Aflrmed.

UNITED STATES v. HILL.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED
DISTRICT OF XL&SS

STATES

FOR THE

CHUSETTS.

Argued December 20, 1886. -Decdd

January 31, 1887.

It was thd custom in the United States courts in Massachusetts, from 1839
to December, 1884, known and approved by the judges, f~r the clerk to
charge $3 as fees in naturalization proceedings. The clerk of the District Court never included those fees in his returns. That fact was known
to the judges to whom his accounts were semi-annually exhibited, and by
whom they were passed without objection in that particular. Relying
on that custom, and believing that those fees formed no part of the
emoluments to bd returned, the clerk of the District Court appointed in
1879 did not include those iees in his accounts. This was known to the
district judge when he examined and certified the "accounts, and his
accounts so made out, to July, 1884, were examined and adjusted by thm
accounting officers of the Treasury. Under a rule made by the. District
Court in 1855, the clerk had charged and received the $3 as a gross sum,
for examining, in advance of thieh presentation to the court, the application papers, and reporting to the court whether they were in conformity with law; and had made no division for specific services, according
to any items of the fee bill in §§ 823 et seq. of th6 Revised Statutes. In a
suit brought in December, 1884, on the official bond of the clerk, against
him and his surety, to recover the amount'of the naturalization fees;
Held:
(1) The provision in § 823, taken from § 1 of the act of February 26,
1853, c. 80, 10 Stat. 161, that the fees to clerks -shall be "taxed
and allowed," appliesiprima facie, to taxable fees and costs in ordinary suits between party and party, prosecuted in a court; and ther
is no specification of naturalization'matters in the fees of clerks.

]70

OCTOB ER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

(2), The statute being of, doubtful constructiou as to what fees were to
be returned, the interpretation of it by judges, heads .of departments,
and accounting officers, contemporaneous and continuous, was one on
Which the obligors in the bond had a right to rely, and, it not being
'clearly erroneous, it will not now be overturned.

Tis was an action at law to recover from the defendants in
error, fees which it was claimed the clerk of the.District Court
* of the United States for the District of Massachusetts should
have accounted for,.the defendants being the clerk and his
bondsman. Judgment for defendants to review which this writ
of error was sued' out. The. case is stated in the opinion of
the court.
21-. Assistant .Attorney General [a Py for plaintiff in error.
Jai. JTohn I owell for defendant in error.
Mzn. JusTIcE BLATOHFOED delivered the opinion of the court.

On the 5th of February, 1879, Clement Hugh Hill was duly
appointed clerk of the District Court of the United States for
the District of _Wassachusetts, by the judge of that court. On
the same day he and William Goodwin Russell and another
person executed a joint and several bond to the United States
in tfie penal sum of $20,000, conditioned that Hl, "by himself and by his deputies," should "faithfully discharge the
duties of .his office, and seasonably record the decrees, judgments, and determinations of the. said court, and properly
account for all moneys coming into .his hands, as required by
law." The statute requiring a bond, in force at the time,
was § 3 of the -act of February 22, 1875, c. 95, 18 Stat. 333,
which required the clerk to give a bond, -with sureties, "faithfully to discharge the duties of his office, and seasonably to
record the decrees, judgments, and determinations of the court
of which he is clerk."
This suit was brought -by the United States against Hill and
Russell on said bond by a writ dated December 4, 1884,
claiming $22,000 damages. The declaration alleges, as- a
breach of the bond, that Hill "has not properly accounted for

-UNITED STATES

.B.

fILL.

Opinion'of the Court.

all moneys coming int6 his hands, as required by law, according to the condition of said bond." The -answer of the defendants denies that allegation, and avers that Hill "has made full
and sufficient returns of all moneys received by him, as required
by law, and that he owes no sum of money to the said United
States."
The following agreed statement of facts was filed -July 1,
1885, signed by the attorneys .for the respective parties, and
upon it the case was, by writen agreement, submitted to the
decision.of the court:
"The defendant Hill was appointed clerk of said court on
thefifth day of February, 1879, and duly qualifid as clerk,
and the defendants gave the bond, a'copy of which is annexed
to the declaration. As clerk, he has made half-yearly returns
of fees .and emoluments received by' him, but he has not ineluded in the same the amounts received by him for the naturalization of aliens in the District Court.
"It has been the custom in the Un{ted States Courts in the
District of Massachiisetts, for a long time, not less than fortyfive years before the date of the writ in the present action, and
known and approved by the judges, for the clerk' to charge
one dollar as a fee for a declaration of intention to become a
citizen, and two dollars as a fee for a' final naturalization and
certificate .thereof; and the clerk of 'the District Court has
never included these iii the fees and emoluments returned by
him, and.this has been known to the judges to whom the accounts have been semi-annually exhibited; and by whom they
were passed without objection -in 'this partisular. Following
this custom, and believing alndbeing inf6rmed'that these fees formed no part of the emoluments to be returned to, the government, the defendant h:ill has not included these amounts
in his accounts, and this was known to the judge' when' his
accounts were examined, and he made on each a certificate in
the form hereto annexed; ancdlhis accounts; so made out, up
to July 1, 1884, have been examined and adjusted by the accounting officers of the Treasury Department.
"The clerks 6f the several courts of the state of lassachusetts made similar charges
like services, and made -no
-for

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

-returns to the treasurers of the counties of the fees so received
until the passage of the statute of the State of 1879, c. 300.
"If, upon the facts before stated and agreed, the court shall
be of opinion that the said fees, charged by the defendant
Hill, in respect to naturalizations, or any part thereof, should
have been returned in his accounts to the United States as
part of the emoluments of the clerk, from which his compensation is to be taken, in accordance with § 833 of the
Revised Statutes, and that the settlements and adjustments of
his several accounts, as above mentioned, constitute no defence
to this action, the case shall be sent to an assessor to ascertain
the amount- due the United States, in accordance with the
law as laid down by the court, unless the parties shall, within
fifteen days after the announcement of the opinion of the
court, agree upon the amount.
"The blanks used for the report of clerks' fees and emoluments, and the blanks used in naturalization of aliens, may be
considered as part of the recdrd of the case.
"The instructions of the Department of Justice to the several clerks, dated January, 1879, may be read for any purpose
for which they are ploperly applicable; but neither the defendant Hill nor his deputy,, Mr. Bassett, has any recollection
of receiving or seeing such a circular before October, 1884.
"The court may draw such inferences from the above facts
as a jury might."
SectioA 833 of the Revised Statutes provides that every
clerk of a District Court shall, "on the first days of January
and July, in each year, or within thirty days thereafter, make
to the Attorney General, in such form as he may prescribe,
a written return for the half year ending on said days, respectively, of all the fees and emoluments of his office, of every
name and character, and of all the necessary expenses of his
office, including necessary clerk hire, together with the vouchers for the payment of the same for such last half year. He
shall state separately in such return the fees and emoluments
Said returns shall be
.
payable under the bankrupt act. .
verified by the oath of the officer making them."
Section 839 of the Revised Statutes provides, that "no clerk

UNITED STATES v. HILL.

173

Ophifon of the Court.

of a District Court
.
.
shall -be allowed by the Attorney
General . . . to retain of the fees and emoluments of his
office,
.
.
for his personal, compensation, over and above
his necessary office expenses, including necessary clerk hire, to
be audited and allowed by the proper accounting officers of
the Treasury, a sum excedding three thousand five hundred
dollars a year for any such district clerk,
or exceeding that rate for any time less than a year."
Section 844 provides, that 'every clerk shall, "at the time of
making his half-yearly return to the Attorney General, pay
into the TreastLry, or deposit to the credit of the Treasurer, as
he may be directed by the Attorney General, any surplus of
the fees and emoluments of his office, which said return shows
to exist over and above the compensation, and allowances
authorized by law t6 be retained by him."
Section 845 provides, that in every case'where the return of
a clerk "shows that a surplus may exist, the Attorney General
shall cause such returns to be. carefully examined, and the
-accounts of disbursements to be regularly audited by the
proper officer of his department, and an account to be opened
with such officer in proper books to be provided for that
purpose."
The foregoing provisions of §§ 833, 839, 844, and 845 were
taken from § 3 of the act of February 26, 1853, c. 80, 10 Stat.
165, 166, the supervision being changed from :the Secretary of
the Interior te the Attorney General by § 15 of the act of
Jr-le 22, 1870, c. 150, establishing the Department of Justice.
16 Stat. 164.
Section 846 provides, that the accounts of clerks "shall be
examined and certified by the district judge of the district for
which they are appointed, before they are presented to the
accounting officers of the Treasury Department for settlement. They shall then be subject to revision upon theii
merits by said accounting officers, as 'in the case of other
p)ublic accounts." This provision was taken from § 1 of the
act of August 16, 1856, c. 124, 1 Stat. 49.
Tle blank used for the report of clerks' fees and emoluinents, and the oath appended to the report and the certifcate

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

of the judge upon it, w6re in the following form, as contained
in the record:
"[Blank for emolument return, to be filled up when a return is due, and forwarded to the
Attorney General of the United States, with the necessary vouchers. Should the return be
verified before any officer other than a judge or clerk of a court 6f the United States, the
additional certificate of authentication should be appended, as the printed instructions of
July 13, 1870, require. Similar blanks willbe furnished for each semi-annual return.)

Court of tre.
, clerk of the
Return of fees: and emoluments of
I
to
, from.
district of'
United States for the
and of ozoneys paid out by him during the same period for the expenses
of his office; also of the receipt or non-receipt of fees and emoluments
previousZy returned by him as "not received"
Dollars.

DISTRICT COURT.

Cents.

Fees and emoluments earned from the United States, received .....
not received .
do.
do.
do.
do.
Do.
Fees and emoluments earned from individuals, received ..........
not received .........
do.
do.
Do.
do.
In cases in bankruptcy, received
do.
do.
Do.
do.
do. not received
do.
do.
do.
Do.
do.
Total gross emoluments earned in the District Court .

.

OFFICE EXPENSES PAID OUT OF GROSS EMIOLU3XEXTS,

$

.

.

District Court.

AS AUTHORIZED BY LAW AND REGULATIONS.

Amount paid for rent of office ...
Do.
Do.
Do.
Do.
Do.

do.
do.
do.
do.
do.

Voucher No. 1

..........

furniture for office ..........
clerk hire
........
. .........
fuel .........
.............
lights .....
stationery .
............

. .

2
3
4
5
6

do.
do.
do.
do.
do.

$

Total amount of office expenses .........

District Court.

RECAPITULATION.
Total amount of earnings, received and not received, brought down .
...........
Deduct amount paid for necessary office expentes ..
Net amount of emoluments earned ....
'Deduct maximum personal compensation .....
Balance due to the United States

.....

.

.

...............
.............

$

..............

Fees and emoluments heretofore returned as "not received"
,188 , received ..
day of
year ending on the
Fees and emoluments heretofore returne&as "not received"
, 188 , received ..
day of
year ending on the
Fees and emoluments heretofore returned as "not received"
, 188 , received ..
day of*
year ending on the
Fees and emoluments heretofore returned as "not received"
day of
,188 , received ..
year ending on the

for the
........
for the
........
for the
........
for the
........

half
half
half
half

UNITED STATES v. HILL.
Opinion of the Court.

I,
, clerk of the
Court of the United States for
the
district of
, do solemnly swear that the foregoing account is, in all respects, just and true, according to
my best knowledge and belief; and that I have neither received, directly or indirectly, nor directly or indirectly agreed
to receive, or be paid, for my own or another's benefit, any
other money, article, or consideration than therein stated; nor
am I entitled to any emoluments for the period therein mentioned other than those therein specified; and that I have
taken all reasonable pains to collgct from individuals- amounts
due to the United States for services in my office: So help
me God.
Signed and sworn to before me this

day of

,188

I,

, judge of the
Court for.the
district of
do hereby certify that I have carefully examined the
vouchers referred to in the foregoing return; that the disbursements charged therein for clerk hire and office expenses were
necessary to the convenient transaction of the business of the
clerk's office; and that the sums paid therefor are, in my
opinion, reasonable.

-No\TE 1.-Nlo money can be paid from the Treasury to any
clerk while his emolument return shall remain in arrear."
On the foregoing facts and statutes it was contended by the
United States, before the Circuit Court, held by the circuit
judge and th6-fbitrict judge, that the sums received as fees in
naturalization proceedings were "fees and emoluments" within
the meaning of § 833, and ought to have been included
by the clerk in his returns, on the ground that they were received for services rendered by the clerk in his official capacity,
and he was, therefore, bound to account for them, whether
they were or were not chargeable under § 828, prescribing fees for clerks. The Circuit Court held that the action

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

could not be maintained, and entered a judgment for the defendants, to review which the United States have brought a
writ of error.
The opinion of the Circuit Court, which accompanies the
record, and is reported in 25 Fed. Rep. 375, gives the following
statement as to the former and the existing legislation of Congress on the subject and as to the action of the courts and of
the Executive Departments of the government: "By the act of
March 3, 1791, 1 Stat. 217, § 1, the compensation of the clerks
was fixed at five dollars a day for attending court, and their
travel. To this was added by the act of May 8, 1792, 1 Stat.
277, § 3, such fees as were allowed in the Supreme Courts of
the state, with a provision that for discharging duties not
performed by the clerks of the state courts, and for which
the laws of the state made no allowance, the court might
allow a reasonable compensation. Under these acts the clerks
were allowed to retain all their fees, and were not required to
render any account of them to the government. The first
law requiring returns to be made was the act of ][arch 3,
18-41, 5 Stat. 427. This act established the compensation of
clerks of courts at $4500 a year, above clerk hire and office
expenses, payable from fees only, and required them to pay
the overplus into tle public treasury, under such rules and
regulations as might be prescribed by the Secretary of the
Treasury. The next in order of time was the act of May 18,
1842, 5 Stat. 483. That act required the clerks to. make to
the Secretary of the Treasury semi-annual returns, embracing all the fees and -emoluments of their office, of every
name and character, distinguishing those received or payable
under the bankrupt act from those received or payable for any
other service. It authorized the clerk of the District Court
to retain from the fees and emoluments of his office, above
office expenses and clerk hire, as his personal compensation,
$3500 a year, and required him to pay the surplus into the
Treasury. It has been stated that the provision in this act
as to bankruptcy fees was inserted to change the law, as ruled
by Judge Story, that the clerks were not bound to account
for fees earned under the bankrupt act of August 19, 1841.

UNITED STATES v. HILL.,
Opinion of the Court.

The act of March .3, 1849, 9 Stat. 395, § 4, establishing the
Department of the Interior5 transferred the supervision of the
accounts of clerks to the Secretary of the Interior. Until
the act of February 26, 1853, 10 Stat. 161, the official fees of
the clerks remained in substance as fixed by the acts of 1791
and 1792. The act of 1853 was the first uniform statute
regulating the fees of the clerks and other officers of the
courts throughout the United States. It established the
present fee-bill, and is reproduced in §§ '823 to 857 of the
Revised Statutes. Its provisions in regard fo returns to
be made by the clerks were the same as in the act of 1842,
except that they were to be made to the- Secretary of the
Ifiterior, as directed' by the act of 1849, instead of to the
Secretary of the Treasury. Since the act of June 22,.1870,
creating the Department of Justice, the returns have bee
made to the Attoiney General, and supervision of these
accounts have been exercised by that officer of the governmuent."
Referring then to the fee-bill of Februay 26, 1853, as found
in g 823 et 8eq. of the Revised Statutes, the court proceeds i
-Upon an 'examination of the statute it will be seen that it
applies to taxable costs in all ordinary litigation, whether at
law or in equity or admiralty, and undoubtedly governs the
taxation in all such actions, suits, and proceedings, civil and
crininal, inpersonarm and in i'er, in the courts of the United
States. But it has not usually been considered, at least in
this district, as applying to certain special and peculiar cases,
of which the courts have jurisdiction, where only the party
asking for the right or privilege- is before the court, and from
the nature of the case no costs are taxable as in ordinary
litigated suits. Of such a character are proceedings under
the naturalization laws, under the shipping commissioner's
act, and applications to be admitted to practice as.an attorney. Thus Judge Shepley early refused -tb allow the clerk
to tax costs by the fee-bill on applications under the shipping
commissioner's act of June 7, 1872, 17 Stat. 272, Rev. Stat.
§ 4544, for the money and effects of deceased seamen deposited in the Circuit Court by the shipping commissioner.
vOL. cxx-12

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

"In respect to naturalization cases, it has neveP been hitherto understood, either by the judges or the departments, that
the fees of the clerk were for services rendered in his official
capacity. At times, especially before elections, these applica-tions are extremely numerous. The papers are usually prepared by the parties themselves or their friends,' or more
frequently by agents of candidates. The hearings are ex2parte,
at no stated times, and it is rare that any person appears in
opposition. It has, therefore, been -necessary, both in -the
interest of the applicants, and for the due and orderly execution of the law, and to enable the court to dispose of the
cases, that the papers should be looked over and corrected by
some person familiar with the law and practice, and in maiiy
instances that the witnesses should be examined before the
cases were presented to the court for final action. It was for
this service that the clerk has been allowed to make these
charges to the parties. These are duties which the court has
the undoubted right to have performed by some other person
than the presiding judge. In these cases the clerk acts rather
as a person appointed to assist the court in exercising its
functions, like a master or examiner in an equity cause, or an
assessor in admiralty, or an auditor in a suit at law. It is the
universal practice of all courts of large juridiction to appoint
special officers, at the expense of the parlies, to make inquiries,
investigate details, examine papers, take accounts, make computationsm, and perform ministerial acts. Their reports, when
returned into court and accepted, become part of the ease,
and form the basis of the orders and decrees of the .court in
the cause.

"It was with this view to re o ate the practice in naturalizati6n cases, and define the duties required of the-clerk, that
Judge Sprague , in 1855, adopted the following rules, which
have ever since been in force:
" Ordered, by the court, that applications by aliens to be
admitted to become citizens of - the United States shall be
presented to the court-while in session, and that proof of the
facts whereof the court is required by law to be satisfied,
shall be made by.at least two credible and disinterested wit-

UNITED STATES v. HILL.
Opinion of the Court.

nesie6s who-are& itizens of the tUnited States, -to be produced
and examined in open court.
"'Ordered, that before such applications are presented, all
necessary papers shall be filed with the clerk, who shall report
to the court, when. the application is.made, that lie has examined the same, and whether they are all in .due form and in
conformity with the requirements of law, or how othex-wise.'"
This fact, as to these rules made in 1855, was not made a
part of the aoeed statement of facts, but the counsel in the
cause, in this court, stipulated in open court, that the fact
should be taken as agreed.
The opinion of the Circuit Court then proceeds: "It is for
services rendered under these rules, and as a special officer of
the court, and not as clerk, that these fees haye been per-mitted." They were not duties pertaining to the offico of
clerk. They could as well have been performed by any other
person designated by the court for the purpose; as by the
district attorney, or a commissioner of the Circuit. Court, or
an attorney, or any suitable person not an officer' 6f the
court.
"Reference has been made to the circular of Attorney
General Devens of January 14, 1879, issued to the clerks.
In it he-says, referring to §. 833:.' This .language embraces
-every possible fee or emolument accruing- to you by reason of
your official capacity, and does not allow the withholding of
any. Whatev6r is done by you that you could not do if out
of office has an official color and significance that brings it
mithii the compass of the language of the statute.' This is
undoubtedly a forcible and accurate statement of the meaning
of the statute. But the naturalization fees do not come
hvithin
this rule. ,They did not accrue to the clerk by r aon of his.
official capacity, andwer&for'work which might as well have
been done by him when out of office as when iii. It is, also to
be noticed that this circular 'calls upon the clerks for ' a statement of sums regeived fbr searches, for all copies for naturalization papers and oaths, ana all other sums received through
your office,'.but makes no mention in terms of naturalization
fees. Register Dept. Justice 1884, p. 223.

OCTOBER TERMI, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

"No complaint of these fees has ever come to the ear of the
court from any quarter. On the contrary, this service performed by the clerks has been of great advantage to those
seeking to be admitted as citizens. It has had the effect, as
originally intended, to simplify the process of becoming a citizen, and to make it more expeditious and inexpensive. It saves
the parties the expense of employing an attorney, and .the fee
charged therefor is much less than would be allowed by the
fee-bill, if the application is to be treated and. entered on the
docket of the court as an ordinary suit. In rejected cases no
fee has been charged. This practice has prevailed for more
than forty years, ever since the act of 1842, which first required
returns, and has been perfectly well known to everybody conversant with the courts. It was begun by Judge Story and
Judge Sprague, and has had the approval of all the judges of
this district since their day. It has also had the sanction
successively of the Department of the Treasury, the Department of the Interior, and the Department of Justice. Until
this suit was brought it has never been called in question by
any accounting officer of the government; nor has Congress
seen fit to put a stop to it by legislation. 'This construction
of the statute in practice, concurred in by all the Departments
of the government, and continued for so many years, must be
regarded as absolutely conclusive in its effect. Edwards' Lessee v. Darby, 12 Wheat. 206; United States v. Temn2le, 105
U. S.97; Ruggles v. Rl1inois, 108 U. S.526; United States v.
Graham, 110 U. S.219.

"It was stated at the bar that a bill was introduced in the
last Congress to require the clerks to make returns of all fees
which they should receive for naturalizations and as masters
and commissioners, but failed to become a law. If a change
in the practice should be thought desirable, it is obvious that
it should be made by Congress, and not by the courts.
"It is also to be noticed as significant, that the clerks of the
courts of Massachusetts, under a fee-bill much like ours, and
a statute requiring them to make to the county treasurer yearly
a return 'of all fees received by them for their official acts
and services,' were never required to include in their returns

UNITED STATES v. HILL.
Opinion of the Court.

the fees received in naturalization cases. Rev. Stat. of 1836,
c. 88, § 15 ; Gen. Stat. of 1860, c. 121, § 22. This was changed
by the act of 1879, c. 300, which defined what the fees in such
cases should be, and directed the clerks to include them *in
their returns.
"The decision of the court is, that, upon the agreed facts in
this case, this action cannot be maintained."
Viewing the whole subject in the light in which it appears
on the face of the statute, in regard to the fees of the clerk,
we are met by the fact that § 823 of the Revised Statutes,
taken from § 1 of the act of February 26, 1853, c. 80, 10
Stat. 161, provides that "the following, and no other, compensation shall be taxed and allowed" to clerks of the District
Courts. This appliesprimafacieto taxable fees and costs in
ordinary suits between party and party, prosecuted in a court.
There is no specification of naturalization matters in the fees
of clerks. From as early as December, 1839, the practice set
forth in the agreed statement of facts has obtained in the District Court in Massachusetts, of charging the fees of $1 and $2,
as gross sums, in naturalization proceedings, without any division for specific services, according to any items of the fee-bill.
The act of March 3, 1841, before referred to, the first one on
the subject of returns, implied that there should be reports of
"fees and emoluments" by the clerk to the Secretary of the
Treasury. The act of May 18, 1812, provided -for semiannual returns to that officer, and included, specifically, fees
and emoluments under the bankrupt act. But the clerk never
has included in these returns his fees and emoluments for
naturalization proceedings, and his action from 1842 to and
including 1884 has een with the knowledge of the successive
district judges, to whom hi accounts have been semiannually
exhibited. From 1842 to 1849 these accounts went to the
Secretary of the Treasury; from 1849 to 1870, to the Secretary of the Interior; and since '1870 they have gone to the
Attorney General. From 1856 the statute has required that
these accounts, before going forward, "shall be examined and
certified by the district judge," a--d that, after being sent to
the several heads of departments, they shall be subject to revis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

ion on their merits by the accounting officers of the Treasury
Department. The agreed statement of facts shows that this
course has been pursued; that the district judge has examined
and certified the accounts, knowing that they did not include
naturalization fees ; and that those accounts have been revised
on their merits by these accounting officers, for this long series
of yearis, and been examined and adjusted by them with the
naturalization fees not included.
With this long practice, amounting to a contemporaneous
and continuous construction of the statute, in a case where it
is doubtful whether the statute requires a return of the disputed fees, judges of eminence, heads of departments, and
accounting officers of the Treasury having concurred in an
interpretation in which those concerned have confided, the
surety in the present bond, as well as his principal, had a
right to rely on that interpretation in giving the bond; and
the semiannual accounts of the principal having been actually
examined and adjusted at the Treasury, with the naturalization fees excluded, down to and including the one last
rendered five months before this suit was brought, a court
seeking to administer justice woulal long hesitate before
permitting the United States to go back, and not only as
against the clerk but as against the surety on his bond,
reopen what had been settled with such abundant and formal
sanction. This principle has been applied, as a wholesome
one, for the establishment and enforcement of justice, in many
cases in this court, not only between man and man, but between the government and those who deal with it, and put
faith in the action of its constituted authorities, judicial,
executive, and administrative.
In Edwards' Lessee v. Darby, 12 Wheat. 206, 210, it was
said. "'Inthe construction of a doubtful and ambiguous law,
the contemporaneous construction of those who were called
upon to act under the law, and were appointed to carry its
provisions into effect, is entitled to very great respect." *To
the same effect are United States v. -Dickson,15 Pet. 141, 145;
United States v. G0more, 8 Wall. 330; Smythe v. .F'ske, 23
Wall. 314, 382; Urnited States v. 3foore, 95 U. S. 760, 763;

PHCENIX LIFE INS. CO. v. RADDIN.
Syllabus.

United States v. Pugh, 99 IT. S. 265, 269; Hahn v. United
States, 107 U. S. 402, 406; and Five _ber cent. Cases, 110 U. S.
471, 485. In the case of Brown v.: United States, 113 U. S.
568, the same doctrine was applied, the cases in this court on
the subject being collected, and it being said, that a "contemporaneous -and uniform interpretation" by executive officers charged with the duty of acting under a statute "is
entitled if weight" 51n its construction, "and in, a case of
doubt ought to turn the scale." A still more recent case on
the subject is United Statev v. Plilbridk, ante, 52, where
this language is used: "A contemporaneous construction by
the officers upon whom was imposed the duty of 'executing
those statutes is entitled to great weight; and since it, is not
clear that that construction was erroneous, it ought not now
to be overturned."
Judgment afjirmed.

PII(ENTIX LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY v. RADDIN.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THF#
DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.
Argued December 20, 21,1886.-Decided January 31, 1887.
Answers to questions propounded by insurers in an application for lifU insurance, unless they are clearly shown by the form of the contract to
have been intended by both parties to be warranties, to be strictly complied with, are to be construed as representations, as to which substantial truth in everything material to the risk is all that is required of the
applicant.
Where upon the face of an application for life insurance, a direct question
of the insurers appears to be not answered at all, or to be imperfectly
answered, the issue of the policy without furthe' inquiry is a 'waiver of
the want or imperfection of the answer, and renders the omission to
answer more fully immaterial.
A policy of life insurance stated that it was issued and accepted by the assured upon certain express conditions, one of which was that "if any of
the declarations or statements made in the application for this policy,
upon the faith of which this policy is issued, shall be found in any respect
untrue, this policy shall be null and void." The application contained a

