OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Statement of Facts.

unintelligible to the jury, or tended in any way to turn their
minds from the points in issue.
The length of hypothetical statements presented to a witness
to ascertain his opinion upon any matter- growing out of the
facts supposed, will necessarily depend upon the simple or complicated character of the transactions recited, and the number
of particulars which must be considered for the formation of
the opinion desired. And this subject, like the extent to
which the examination of a witness may be allowed, must, in
a great degree, be left to the discretion of the court.
We do not see that the rights of the defendants were at all
prejudiced -by them.
The judgment, therefore, must be
affirmed; and it is so ordered.

.4ffirmed.

HUNTINGTON

v. SAUNDERS.

APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.
Argued December 22, 1886. -Decided

January 17, 1887.

While creditor who finds specific property of his debtor in the hands of
the debtor's wife to whom it had been assigned by the debtor before bankruptcy rdiy follow it and have it appropriated to the payment of his
debt, a jtidgment in personam for its value cannot be taken against her
in case the property itself cannot be found.
hipps v. Sedgwicl, 95
U. S. 3, and Trust Co. v. Sedgwick, 97 U. S, 301, affirmed.
A bill in equity against husband and wife by the assignees in bankruptcy
of the husband, which alleges that the husband before the bankruptcy
transferred a large amount of personal property in the form of bonds,
stocks, &c.,,to the wife for the purpose- of concealing the same f rom his
creditors, and delaying, hindering, and defrauding them, and in contemplation of bankruptcy, and which does not describe the property, but
avers inability to do so, and wvlfth waives answer under oath and asks
as relief for a transfer to the assignee of the property in whatever form
it may exist, as assets of the bankrupt, sets forth no case for relief in
equity, and should be dismissed on demurrer.
THIS was a bill in equiity~which was dismissed on demurrer.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.

HUNTINGTON v. SAUNDERS.
Opinion of the Court.
Hir.

George TV. Parke for appellants.

Xr. Henry C. Hutchins and .31'. Tames H. Young filed a
brief for appellees ; but the court declined to hear argument.
MR.

JUSTICE MILLEn

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United States
for the District of ilasachusetts.
It was decided in that court upon a demurrer to the bill of
complaint, the demurrer beiiig sustained and the bill dismissed.
The bill was brought by the present appellants, as a'ssignees
in bankruptcy of William A. Saunders, against said William
A. Saunders and Mary P. Saunders, his wife, and, after alleging that, by due course of proceeding, William A. Saunders
had been adjudged a bankrupt and the plaintiffs appointed
assignees of his estate, it proceeds to say that they have discovered, within one year, "and been first informed of facts,
and circumstances upon which they believe, and therefore
aver, that the said bankrupt, without consideration, transferred to and placed in the hands of his wife, the said Mary
P. Saunders, a large amount of personal property in the form of.
money, bonds, stocks, and other securities, none of which can
your orators more particularly describe, because all particular
information is refused by the bankrupt and his wife and the
persons managing the property for them, and because the same
has been invested for income, and often changed in form by
reinvestment and in pursuance of devices for more effectual
concealment." Then it is further averred, that "said property
is of the value of about forty thousand dollars, and was so
transferred by said bankrupt to his said wife for the purpose of
concealing the same from his creditors and from these assignees,
and to delay, hinder, and defraud his creditors, he being then
deeply indebted, and to an amount wholly beyond his means
and ability to liquidate and pay, so that he was hopelessly
insolvent and in contemplation of bankruptcy." The prayer
of the bill is "that said Mlary P. Saunders, the respondent,
may fully, truly, and particularly answer this bill, but not
under oath, which is horeby waived," and for a decree that

OCTOBER TERMI, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

said property may be held to belong to the assets of said William A. Saunders in bankruptcy, and the respondent compelled
to transfer and deliver the property, or the proceeds thereof,
in whatever form existing, to the plaintiffs, as assets of the
bankrupt, and for further and other relief.
The imperfections of this bill are very obvious. Counsel for
appellants, conceding the doctrine of Pkips v. Sedgwihk, 95
U. S. 3, and Trust Co. v. Sedgwic, 97 U. S. 304, that a wife
cannot be held liable to a personal judgment for money received
of her husband during, the marital relation, argues that this
bill is an attempt to proceed against a fund in her bands; but
as no particular fund is named, as no particular set of securities or description of them is given in the bill, as no place is
named where they are deposited, nor any person, even the
wife, as holding them, as no real estate is mentioned as belonging to this fund, as the nature and character of the conversion
made of the fund after it came to the hands of the wife is not
set forth, it seems impossible to ihaintain such a bill as seeldng
to lay hold of and appropriate a particular fund coming from
the bankrupt himself, or even the proceeds of such a fund. As
was very pertinently asked by the circuit judge in his opinion
sustaining the demurrer, wbat relief could be given by the
court, or wbat decree could be granted on this bill, if it were
taken pro cofe.s.o, no opposition being made to it? 14 Fed.
Rep. 907. It is not possible to see wha;t decree could be
inade or vhat relief could be given. It is not a bill of discovery, because the answer under oath of the defendant is
expressly waived. No interrogatories are propounded to
either of the defendants; no effort made to obtain from them,
or either of them, by way of sworn answer, anything which
could be used as evidence in the case, An issue of a general
denial of the truth of the bill would leave nothing on which
evidence could be introduced. It is in fact what is familiarly
known as a fishing bill. The plaintiffs allege no distinct fact
which the defendants or either of them can be called upon to
deny. The plaintiffs do not say positively that any of the
allegations of the bill are true, but the substance of what they
say is, that they have received certain information which

HUNrINGTON v. SAUNDERS.
Opinion of the Court.

excites their suspicion; and this information is so vague, so
uncertaih and indefinite as t regards any fund or any particular sum of money or bonds, or any time or occasion when they
were placed in the control of the female defendant, that, unless
we are prepared to establish the proposition, that whenever a
married woman is suspected of having received money from
her husband to the prejudice of his creditors, she must be
brought up to answer, and not under oath, as to what she has
done with it, this bill must be held to be insufficient.
In the case of Pkipp.9 v. Sedgzcek, 95 U. S. 3, which is a
case somewhat analogous to this, this court said: "While the
statutes of New York have recognized certain rights of the
wife to deal with and contract in referende to her separate
property, they fall far short of establishing the principle that
out of that separate property she can be made liable for money
or property received at her husband's hands, -which in equity
ought to have gone to pay his debts. Equity has been ready,
where such property remains in her hands, to restore it to its
proper use, but not to hold her separate estate liable for what
she has received, and probably spent at his dictation. Such a
proposition would be 'a very unjust one to the wife still under
the dominion, control, and personal influence of the husband.
In receiving favors at his hands, which she supposed to be the
offerings of affection, or a proper provision for her comfort,
she would be subjecting that which was her own, or which
might afterwards come to her from other sources, to unknown
and unsuspected charges, of the amount and nature of which
she would be wholly ignorant. It answers the demands of
justice in such cases if the creditor, finding the property itself
in her hands or in the hands of one holding it with notice,
appropriates it to pay his debt. But, if it is beyond his reach,
the wife should no more be held liable for it than if the lu.nband himself had spent it in support of his family, or even of
his own extravagance."
To this principle we adhere; and, as there is no statement
or description or reference in this bill to any fund now existing arising out of the bankrupt's gift, to his wife, and no call
for discovery in regard to any such fund, but an express waiver
V0L. CXX-6

82

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Names of Counsel.

of an answer under oath, we think the bill was properly dismissed.
_Aflm
ded.
HEINEMANN v. ARTHUR'S EXECUTORS.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Submitted January 3, 1887.- Decided January 24, 1887.

Wool of the third class was dutiable under ยง 1 of the act 6f March 2,
1867, c. 197, 14 Stat. 560, at three cents per pound, if its value at the
last port or place whence exported into the United States, excluding
charges in such port, was twelve cents or less per pound; and at six
cents per pound, if such- value exceeded twelve cents per pound. On
January 5, 1874, such wool, bought in Russia, in October, 1873, the
actual cost of which, exclusive of chargesowas below twelve cents per
pound, at the time and place of exportation, was entered at the custom
house at the port of New York, at an invoice value stated in Russian
silver roubles. The collector computed the rouble at 77.17 cents, under
the authority pf a proclamation to that effect made by the Secretary of
the Treasury in December, 1873, in pursuance of an estimation of the
value of the rouble for the year 1874, made by the director of the mint,
as required b the act of March 3, 1873, c. 268, 17 Stat. 602. Prior to
that act the value of the rouble had been fixed by statute at seventy-five
cents. If the rouble had been computed at seventy-five cents, the invoice
value of the wool would have been less than twelve cents per pound.
Computing it at 77.17 cents raised such invoice value above twelve cents
per pound. The collectbr exacted a duty of six cents per pound. In an
action to recover back the excess of duty over three cents per pound;
Held:
(1) The effect of the act of 1873 was to repeal the prior statute;
(2)'the requirement of ยง 7 of the act of March 3, 1865, c. 80, 13 Stat. 493,
forbade the assessment of duty on an amount less than the invoice or
entered value;
(3) the collector was, therefore, required to compute the rouble at 77.17
cents, although the cost of the goods, computing the rouble at seventyfive cents, was twelve cents or less per pound.

-31r.Sidney De Xay and Xlir. Patrick A. Collins for plaintiff in error.
Mrf'. Solicitor General for defendants in error.

