OCTOBER TERMN£,

18.86.

Statement of Facts.

The same principles apply to this case which were considered in that of Robbins, and the same result must be declared.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals of Maryland is reversed, and the plaintiff in error must be discharged.
M

. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE

concurring.

MR.JuSricE FIELD, Mnz. JUsTI E GRAY, and myself agree to
this judgment, but on different grounds from those stated in
the opinion of the court, It is not denied that the statute of
Maryland requires a non-resident merchant desiring to sell by
sample in that state, to pay for a license to do that business a
sum to be ascertained by the amount of his stock in trade in
the state where he resides, and in! which he has his principal
place of business. This differs materially from the statute of
Tennessee, which was considered in -Robbinsv. Tax)ing District of S7elby County, just decided, and is in its effect, as we
think, a tax on commerce among the states. The charge for
the privilege to the non-resident is measured by his capacity
for doing business all over the United States, and without any
reference to the amount done or to be done in Maryland.

SCHULER v. ISRAEL.
ERRoR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF MSSOURI.
Submitted January 10, 1887.-Decided March 7, 1887.

judgment recovered in one court may be pleaded as a defence- to a suit
on the same cause of action pending in - another when by law the cause
of action is merged in the judgment.
A garnishee has a right to set up any defence against the attachment process which he could have done against the debtor in the principal action;
6nd if the debtor be insolvent, and owes the garnishee on a note not due
for which he has no sufficient security, he is not bound to risk the loss
of his debt in answer to the garnishee process.

THIs was an action at law, in the nature of assumpsit, commenced in a state court against defendant in error and a gar-

SCHULER v. ISRAEL.
Opinion of the Court.

nishee. Judgment for defendant, and for garnishee. Plaintiff sued out this writ of error. The case is stated in the
opinion of the court.
fr.
.Mr. J.

. P. Dyer for appellant.
. fe-Eeig]harn for appellees.

Mu. JuswIcu MILLEn delivered the opinion of the court.

The plaintiff in error, who was plaintiff below, brought two
separate suits in the Circuit Court of the city of St. Louis,
Missouri, on the same day, against C. W. Israel and J. N.
Israel, as partners in the banking business. One case was
brought upon a note for the sum of $10,000, and the other
upon a draft made by C. W. Israel & Co., for $11,250 on
the Laclede Bank, on which.payment was refused when presented at the bank and the draft duly protested.
In each of these cases a writ of attachment was issued at
the coimnencement of the suit which was served by-way of
garnisnnent on the Laclede Bank, also of St. Louis. An order of publication was made in the state court against' C. W.
Israel and J. N. Israel on account of their being non-residents,
and the two suits were removed into the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of Missouri, upon the
application of the plaintiff, upon the ground that he was a citizen of the state of Kansas and the two Israels were citizens of
the state of Texas. They were there consolidated and heard
as one case.
J. N. Israel appeared and filed an answer for himself alone
in which he made no defence to the suit on the check, but set
up as a, defence to the suit on the note, that before the institution of the present suit in the Missouri court the plaintiff had
comnmenced an action on the same note in the Circuit Court of
the United States for the Northern District of Texas and had
at the time of the plea filed, recovered a judgment against the
defendant, J. N. Israel, on said note, whereby he claimed that
the note was merged in said judgment, and no judgment could
be rendered on it in this action. Judgment was rendered in

,508

OCTOBER TERM1, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

favor of plaintiff for the amount of the check. The suit was
dismissed by plaintiff before hearing as to C. W. Israel.
The Laclede Bank in its response to the garnishee process
served on it under the attachment, and in, answer to interrogatories propoun! Bd to it by the plaintiff, admitted that there
was, on the 24th day of October, 1885, standing on its .books
to the credit of the three-several banking. companies of which
J. N. Israel was a partner certain sums of money. The attachment process was served on the Laclede Bank, N~ovember
2, 1885, and the bank in its answer says that on the 24th of
October the said Israel, being wholly insolvent, made, executed, and delivered a deed of general assignment in conformity with the laws of the state of Texas, where he resided,
for the benefit of all his creditors, which assignment is set.
forth in the answer, and that the bank had notice of this assignment immediately after it was made. It further answered
that the said J. N. Israel, individually, and as a member of
the several banking houses before referred to, namely, C. W.
Israel & Co., the Exchange Bank of Harold, and the Exchange
Bank of Wichita Falls, was indebted to the Laclede Bank in
an amount exceeding all the sums on deposit with that bank at
the date of the service of the attachment.
The plaintiff demurred to the answer of the defendant Israel,
setting up the judgment recovered in the United States Court
for the Northern District of Texas on the note, and he demurred also to the answer of the Laclede Bank as garnishee,
and the case was submitted to the court on these demurrers.
The court rendered a judgment overruling both demurrers,
finding for the defendant Israel in the suit upon the note and
rendering judgment against him in the suit on the check. It
also discharged the bank as garnishee.
The plaintiff brings this case here by writ of error, and the
two questionis presented are: first, as to the sufficiency of the
answer of J. N. Israel setting up the judgment in the action'
on the same note in Texas.
While it is certainly true-that the pendency of a suit in one
court is not a defence, though it may sometimes be good in
abatement, to another suit on the same cause of action in

SCHULER v. ISRAEL.
Opinion of the Court.

another court of concurrent jurisdiction, it may be considered
as established that when a judgment is rpcovered against the
defendant in one of those courts, if it is a full and complete
judgment on the whole cause of action, it may be pleaded as a
defence to the action in that court where it is pending and
undecided. Neither court would be bound to take notice of
the judgment in the other court judicially, but when the matter
is pleaded in due time and it is made to appear that a judgment
on the same cause of action has been recovered and is in full
force and effect, that judgment must be held to merge the evideuce of the debt, whether that evidence be parol or written,
in the judgment first recovered. Freeman on Judgments, §
221; Barnes v. Gibbs, 2 Vroom (31 N. J. lLaw), 317; 1cGilV'ay & Co. v. Avery,.30 Vt. 538; Rogers v. Od l1, 39 N. H.
452; Bank of YNorth America v. Wheeler, 28 Conn. 433 [8. C.
73 Am. Dec. 683] ; E.7d.ed v. Ban7, 17 Wall. 545. The court
below was right, therefore, in overruling the demurrer to the
plea and rendering judgment for the defendant.
As regards the order discharging the garnishee, it seems to
us that, without reference to the question of the validity of the
assignment of Israel, the ans*er of the bank sets up a sufficient
defence in the fact of the insolvency of J.K. Israel and his
indebtedness as partner in the various banking companies above.
mentioned to the L aclede Bank. The answer of the bank
states exTlicitly that at the time of the service of thesummons
in garnishment on it, namely, November 2, 1885, it had not,
"nor has it since, or has it now, in its possession, custody, or
charge, any lands, tenements, goods, chattels, moneys, credits,
or effects belonging to the defendants in said cases or either of
them. 2d. At said date of garnishment it, the said bank, was
not indebted in anywise to said defendants or either of them,
nor has it since become so indebted, nor is it now so indebted.
3d. At said date of garnishment said bank was not bound in
any contract to pay said defendants, or either of them, any
money not then due, nor has it since said date become so
indebted."
The bank then goes on to give a detail of its transactions
with Israel and his various banks, in which it is shown that

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

while there was in the bank's hands certain moneys deposited
by Israel and his several banking houses, Israel was indebted
to the bank in various sums at the time of his failure, October
241, 1885, some of which had matured and others of which had
not matured at the time of the service of the garnishee process.
But,as Trael and all his banks were, insolvent at the time of
the service of the garnishee process, we are of opinion that the
bank had the right to appropriate any moneys in its hands to
the security and payment Qf these obligations, whether due or
not. If we are correct in this proposition, the answer of the
bank is sufficient.
As .we understand the law concerning the condition of a
garnishee in attachment, he has the same rights in. defending
himself against that process at the time of its service upon him
that he would have had against the debtor in the suit for whose
pioperty he is called upon to account. And while it may be
true that in a suit brought by Israel against the bank it could
in an ordinary action at law only make plea of set-off of so
much of Israel's debt to, the bank as was then due, it could, by
filing a bill in chancery in such case, alleging Israel's insolvency, and that, if it was compelled to pay its own debt to
Israel, the debt which Israel owed it, but which was not due,
would be lost, be relieved by a proper decree in equity; and,
as a garnishee is only compelled to be responsible for that
which, both inlaw and equity, ought to have gone to pay the
principal defendant in the main suit,- he can set up all the
defences in this proceeding which he would have in either a
court of law or a court of equity. United States v. Thugl", 3
Binney, 394 [IS. C. 5 Am. Dec. 375]; Shatturk v. mnith, 16 Vt.
132; E .Parte Stephens, 11 Ves. 24; Drake on Attachment,
§§ 528, 531.
Yejudgment of tke Circuit Court isafflrmed.

