CRESCENT LIVE STOCK CO. v. BUTCHERS' UNION.

141

Syllabus.

CRESCENT CITY LIVE STOCK COMPANY z. BUTCHERS' UNION SLAUGHTER-HOUSE COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF LOUISIA.A.
Submitted January 6, 1887. -Decided

January 24, 1887.

According to the law and practice of Louisiana, the Supreme Court of
that state, in cases brought before it by appeal from inferior courts, determines the matter in cofitroversy, as presented by the record, both as
to fact and law, without regard to the particular rulings of the courts
below, and its opinion, showing the groduds of its judgment, constitutes
part of the record to be reviewed in this court, upon writ of error, when
the question for determination is whether the Supreme Court of the state
decided a Federal question, necessary to the decision of the case, without
respect to the rulings of the inferior state court.
In Louisiana, an action for malicious prosecution is founded on the principles, and is subject to the defences, established by the common law;
and in order to sustain it, it is necessary to show: (1) that the suit had
terminated unfavorably to the prosecutor; (2) that in bringing it the
prosecutor had aeted without probable cause; (3) that lie was actuated
by legal malice, that is, by improper or sinister motives; and that these
three elements concur.
The question of probable cause is a question of law, where the facts are
undisputed; and the judgment of the court, in favor of the plaintif,
is conclusive proof of probable cause for the prosecution of the suit alleged to be malicious, notwithstanding its subsequent reversal by an
appellate court, unless it is shown to have been obtained by -means of
fraud. This rule seems to reconcile the apparent contradiction in the
authorities, is well grounded in reason, fair and just to the parties, and
consistent with the principle on which the action for malicious prosecution is founded.
The judgments and decrees of the circuit courts of the United States,
sitting in a particular state, are to be accorded in the courts of that state,
whether as the foundation of an action, or of a defence, either by' plea or
in proof, such effect, and such effect only, as would be accorded in similar
circumstances to the judgments and decrees of a state tribunal of equal
authority; and whether such due effect has been giyen by a state court
to ajudgment or decree of a court of the United States is a Federal question within the jurisdiction of this court, on a writ of error to the
Supreme Court of the state.
The decree of the Circuit Court of the United States, relied on by the
plaintiff in error in this case, as a defence, was sufficient evidence of
probable cause for the prosecution of the suit, notwithstanding its rever-

OCTOBER TERM2,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.
sal, on appeal, by this court. It does not detract from its effect that in
another previous suit, between the plaintiff in error and another defendant, the Supreme Court of Louisiana had' decided the questions of law on
which alone his right depended adversely to him.

Tins was an action to recover on a bond. The case which
makes the Federal question is stated in the opinion of the
court.
Jlrr. A'ssistant Atto'ney General Zdaury and .MXr. Robert
Jlott for plaintiffs in error.
.31r. E. Howard .Me Caleb and .Xr. B. R. Forman for defendant in error.
MR. Jus~riE H&Truxws delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a writ of error bringing into review a judgment of
the Supreme Court of the State of Louisiana, reported in 37
La. Ann. 874. The Federal question arising upon the record
presented for our consideration is, whether the Supreme Court
of Louisiana in its determination of the case gave due effect to
a certain decree of the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Eastern District of Louisiana, in a previous litigation between the same parties. That question is presented upon the
following case.
The plaintiff in error is a corporation created by the laws of
Louisiana, which, by an act of the legislature of that state,
passed March 8,1869, was invested with the sole and exclusive
privilege of conducting and carrying_ on the live-stock landing
and slaughter-house business within the city of New Orleans
and the parishes of Orleans, Jefferson, and St. Bernard. The
validity of this monopoly was sustained by the decision of this
court in the Slaughter-.HouseCases, 16 Wall. 36, on the ground
that this grant of exclu-ive right or privilege was a police regulation for the health and comfort of the people within the
power of the state legislature, and not in violation of any
provision of the Constitution of the United States. The company continued thenceforward to use and enjoy its exclusive

CRESCENT LIVE STOCK CO. v. BUTCHERS' UNION.

143

Opinion of the Court.

privileges until the adoption by the people of Louisiana of a
new state constitution in, the year 1879. That constitution
contained the following articles:
"ARTicLE 248. The police juries of the several parishes, and
the constituted authorities of all incorporated muflicipalities of
the State, shall alone have the power of regulating the slaughtering of cattle and other live-stock within their respective
limits; provided no monopoly or exclusive privilege shall exist
in this state, nor such business be restricted to the land or
houses of any individual or corporatioi; provided the ordinances designating places for slaughtering shall obtain the
concurrent approval of the board of health or other sanitary
organization."
"AR.IOLE 258. The monopoly features in the charter of any
corporation now existing in the State, save such: as may, be
contained in the charters of railroad companies, are hereby
abolished."
The city of New Orleans, by ordinances adopted in 1881,
proceeded to declare, under Art. 248 of the constitution,
within what limits in the parish of Orleans animals, intended
for food, might be slaughtered, in which the Board of Iealth
of the State of Louisiana concurred. In March, 1880, the
Butchers' Union Slaughter-House and Live-Stock Landing
Compaiy, the defendant in error, became incorporated under
the General Law of Louisiana, and was authorized by its charter "to erect, at any point or place in the parish of Orleans,
wharves, stables, sheds, yards, and buildings necessary to land,
stable, shelter, protect, and preserve all kinds of horses, mules,
cattle, and other animals, for the purpose of carrying on the
live-stock landing and slaughter-house business, and for the
purpose of sheltering and protecting all such cattle or other
animals which may be sent to said company destined for
slaughter; and the said company shall, as soon as practicable,
build and complete a slaughter-house; also a sufficient number
of sheds and stables and other buildings as may be deemed
necessary for the carrying on said slaughtering business."
This company having begun to acquire the necessary plant
for conducting the live-stock and slaughtering business, in pur-

OCTOBER TERMI, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

suance of its charter, the plaintiff in error, on the 23d of November, 1881, filed its bill in the Circuit Court of the United

States for the Eastern District of Louisiana against the defendant in error, setting up its exclusive right and privilege as
claimed by it under its original charter and grant, alleging
that the defendant was about to violate the same, and praying
for an injunction to restrain. that, company from carrying out
its purpose. On the 29th of December, 1881, after notice and
hearing, the judges of that court granted the injunction as
prayed for pendente lite. On final hearing on the 8th of
May, 1882, this injunction was made perpetual. On May 5,
1884, this decree of the Circuit Court was reversed by this
court by a decision reported in 111 U. S. 746, on the 'ground
that the exclusive right originally granted to the plaintiff in
error was valid only as an exercise of the police power of the
State, and was of that character, having reference to the public health, that it could not be made the subject of contract,
protected against subsequent legislation by the Constitution of
the United States.
In granting the preliminary injunction referred to, the plaintiff in error was required to and gave an injunction bond in
the sum of $8000, with Bertrand Saloy as surety, reciting the
allowance of the injunction pendente lite, and conditioned to
pay to the defendant in said injunction all such damages as
it might suffer or had suffered in consequence thereof. The
present action was begun in the Civil District Court for the
Parish of Orleans on May 28, 1884, by the defendant in error
against the plaintiff in error and Bertrand. Saloy; by a petition in which a recovery is sought upon the bond against the
defendants in solido for the sum of 88000, with five per cent.
interest from judicial demand for a breach of its condition, and
against the company alone for the further sum of $70,000 damages, with five per cent. interest from the date of the verdict,
on the alleged ground of a malicious prosecution by the eomplainant therein of the, said bill in equity for an injunction.
This cause came on for trial by a jury when there -was a verdict
against both defendants for $6588.80, *-ith interest, and against
the Crescent City Live-Stock Landing and Slaughter-House

CRESCENT. LIVE STOCK CO. v. BUTCHERS' UNION.

145

Opinion of the Court.

Company alone, upon the plea of malicious prosecution, for, the
sum of $12,500 damages, and the further sum of $2500 attorneys' fees. Upon the trial the defendant relied upon the
decree of the Circuit Court of the United States, granting and
perpetuating the injunction, as conclusive proof of probable
cause for the institution and prosecution of the suit complained
of. The rulings of the Civil District Court upon this defence
are set out in several bills of exception. In one of them it
appears that the judge left it to the jury to determine whether
the decree of the Circuit Court constituted probable cause or
not, adding that in his opinion it was both remarkable and
extraordinary, and, as explanatory-of that, the bill of exceptions signed by him contains the following statement: "I described the action of the Federal court as 'remarkable and
extraordinary,' because it set at naught the decisions bf the
state courts of Louisiana, of the Supreme Court of Louisiana,
set at defiance the positive mandate of the state constitution,
and because it was held by the unanimous Supreme Court of
the United States to have involved a usurpation of jurisdiction; such action was truly 'remarkable and extraordinary,'
though not without deplorable precedent."
It also appears that the defendants requested the judge to
charge the jury as follows:,
"A plaintiff, whose asserted right was conferred by an aci
of legislature and has been in force for a number of years, has
a right to test the legality of a subsequent repeal of said right,
when the validity of such repeal or modification has not been
finally settled, and the plaintiff -is advised by competent counsel that the repeal is invalid. In such a case the plaintiff has
probable cause for asserting his rights and instituting an action
for such purpose. If, in the action instituted, the lower court
being the Circuit Court of the United States, presided over by
two judges, render a judgment in favor of, the plaintiff, the
existence of probable cause for instituting such suit is demonstrated by the finding of the judges of the Circuit Court,
although their judgment was reversed on appeal."
This charge the judge refused to give, on the ground that it
was unsound in law. Judgment was rendered on the verdict
VoL. Cxx-O

OCTOBER TERM.

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

February 24, 1885, and the cause was removed by a suspensive
appeal to the Supreme Court of Louisiana for the final decision
of that court, by which, on December 14, 1885, it was affirmed.
It is contended by counsel for the defendant in error, that
in examining the record in this case, this court will only consider the opinion and judgment of the Supreme Court of Louisiana in order to ascertain if the authority relied upon by the
plaintiff in error was wrongfully disregarded by that tribunal,
and that without reference to the rulings of the inferior court,
the opinion of the Supreme Court. being made a part of the
record by law for that purpose. Such appears to be the law
of Louisiana as recognized by the decisions of this court.
Louisiana Code Pract. Art. 905; Parks v. Turner, 12 How.
39, 43; Hennen's Digest, p. 92, No. 3; Cousin v. Blanc's
.Executors.,19 How. 202; G and Guolf ailroad and Banking'
Company v. .- airshall, 12 How. 165; .furdbce v. city of
-3-emphis, 20 Wall. 590; Crossley v. City of irew Orleans,
108 U. S. 105; Caperton v. Bowyer, 14 Wall. 216.
It must, therefore, be conceded that the sole question to be
determined is, Did the Supreme Court of Louisiana, in deciding against the plaintiffs in error, give proper effect to the
decree of the Circuit Court of the United States, subsequently
reversed by this court?
It is argued by counsel for the defendant in error that this
does not embrace any Federal question; that the.effect to be
given to a judgment or decree of the Circuit Court of the
United States sitting in Louisiana by the courts of that state
is to be determined by the law of Louisiana; or by some principle of general law as to which the decision of the state court
is final; and that the rfiling in question did not deprive the
plaintiffs in error -of "any privilege or immunity specially set
up or claimed under the Constitution or laws of the United
States." But this is aa error. The question whether a state
court has given due effect to the judgment of a court of the
United States is a question arising under the Constitution and
laws of the United States, and comes within the jurisdiction
of the Federal courts by proper process, although, as was said
by this court in Dpasseur v. Roc]hereav, 21 Wall. 130, 135,

CRESCENT LIVE STOCK CO. v. BUTCHERS' UNION.

147

Opinion of the Court.

"no higher sanctity or effect can be claimed for the judgment
of the Circuit Court of the United States rendered in such a
case, under such circumstances, than is due to the judgments
of the state courts in a like case and under similar circumstances." .Emery v. Palmer, 107 U. S. 3. It may be conceded, then, that the judgments and decrees of the Circuit
Court of the United States, sitting in a particular state, in the
courts of that state, are to be accorded such effect, and such
effect only, as would be accorded in shnilar circumstances to
the judgments and decrees of a state tribunal of equal authority. But it is within the jurisdiction of this court to determine, in this case, whether such due effect has been given by
the Supreme Court of Louisiana to the decrees of the Circuit
Court of the United States here drawn in question.
The decree of the Circuit Court was relied upon in the state
court as a complete defence to the action for malicious prosecution, on the ground that it was conclusive proof of probable
cause. The Supreme Court of -Louisiana, affirming the judgment of the inferior state court, denied to it, not only the effect
claimed, but any effect whatever.
It is conceded that, according to the law of Louisiana, the
action for a maliciou3 prosecution is founded on the same principles, and subject to the same defences, as have been established by the common law prevailing in the other states.
In the case of Ilubglt v. -Vew Odleans and Ccatrollton Bailroad, 6 La. Ann. 495; S. C. 54 Am. Dec. 565, it was said that
"the dispositions of article 2294 are found In the Roman and
Spanish laws; so far from being new legislation, that article
embodies a general principle as old as the science of jurisprudence itself, and it must still be understood with the limitations
affixed to it by the jurisprudence of Rome and Spain. Domat
Lois Civiles, tit. Domages causes par des fautes, p. 180, par. 1."
In the same case the court said on a rehearing: "The article
2294 of our Code provides that every act whatever of man that
causes damage to another obliges him by whose fault it happened to repair it. The provisions of this article, however
general and comprehensive its terms may be, are found more
than once recited in terms equally general and comprehensive

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

in the laws of the fifteenth title of the seventh Partida. The
article was inserted in the Code of 1809, at a time when the
Spanish laws were in force. It was put and retained to this
time in the Codanot for the purpose -of making any change
in the law, but because it was a principle which was in its
proper place in a code; a principle which would be equally
-recpgiized as a necessary conservative element of society, and
equally obligatory whether it v-as formally enacted in a code
or not."
In the case of Nncal v. Smith, 9 Rob. La. 418, 420, it had
been previously decided that "'in cases of this kind it is well
settled that malice and the want of probable cause in the
original action are essential ingredients. Malice may be expressly proved or it may be inferred from the total want of'
a probable cause of action; but malice alone, however great,
if there be a probable cause upon which the suit or prosecution is based, is insufficient to maintain an action in damages
for a malicious prosecution."
In the case of Gou~l v. Gardner, 8 La. Ann. 11, it was
determined that the defendants in the case were not without
probable cause for the arrest of the plaintiff, which was the
ground of the action, because they acted by the advice of
eminent and learned counsel, though his opinion was held to
be eiTroneous. -The court refer to the case of Stone v. Swift,
4 Pick. 389; S. C. 16 Am. Dec. 349, in Massachusetts, and that
of Fosluy v. Ferguson,2 Denio, 619, in New York, as sufficient
authority in support of their opinion, and add as follows: "Our
codes .and statutes have not provided any rules to guide us on
the tri • of such actions, and we are governed in the absence of
positive' legislation by the rules laid down in the authorities
quoted, because we consider them just and reasonable in
themselves." In the opinion in the present case, the Supreme
Court of Louisiana say that to sustain the charge of malicious
prosecution it is necessary to show: "1st, that the suit had
terminated unfavorably to the prosecutor; 2d, that in bringing
it the prosecutor had acted without: probable cause; 3d, that
he was actuated by legal malice, i.e., by improper or sinister
motives. The above three elements must concur."

CRESCENT LIVE STOCK CO. v. BUTfCHIERS' UNION

-149

Opinion of the Court.

And when there is no dispute of fact, the question of probable cause is a question of law for the determination of the
court. Steivart v. Sonneborn, 98 U. S. 187, 194.
Want of
probable cause and the existence of malice, either. express or
implied, must both concur to entitle the plaintiff in an action
for a malicious prosecution to recover. So that if probable
cause is shown, the defence is perfect, notwithstanding the
defendant in instituting and carrying on the action may have
been actuated solely by a motive and intent of malice. If
he had probable cause to institute his action, the motives by
which'he was actuated and the purposes he had in view are

not material.
How much weight as proof of probable cause shall be attributed to the judgment of the court in the original action, when
subsequently reversed for error, may admit of some question.
It does not appear to have been judicially determined in Louisiana. In the case of Gri~fis v. Sellars,3 & 4 Devereux & Battle
Law, 177; S. C. 31 Am. Dec. 422, Ruffin, C. J., said " that probable cause is judicially ascertained by the verdict of the jury and
judg nent of the court thereon, although upon an appeal a contrary verdict and judgment be given in a higher court." In
titibzey v. Peckhazm, 15 Mass. 243, such a judgment was held
to be conclusive in favor of the existence of probable cause. To
the same effect is Herman v. Brocerhoff, 8 Watts, 240, in an
opinion of Chief Justice Gibson. The decision in the case of
TWitney v. Peckkhaa, u~i supra, however, was questioned by
the Supreme Court of New York in the case bf Burt v. Place,
4 Wend. 591, 598, where Marcy, J., delivering the opinion of
the court, said that the Massachusetts decision rested entirely
upon Reynolds v. Xennedy, 1 Wilson, 232, which had been
qualified by the decision of Eyre, Baron of the Exchequer, in
Seetton v. Joastone,1 T. R. 493, 505, and by what was said by
Lord Mansfield and Lord Loughborough in the same case,
which came before them on a writ of error. 1 T. R. 544 et
seq. The effect of these English authorities, as stated by
Marcy, J., in Burt v. Place,ubi supra, is as follows: "That if
it appears by the plaintiff's own declaration that the prosecution, which he charges to have been malicious, was. before

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

a tribunal having jurisdiction, and was there decided in favor
of the plaintiff in that court, nothing appearing to fix on him
any unfair means in conducting the suit, the court will regard
the judgment in favor of the prosecution satisfactory evidence
of probable cause."
In that case the judgment relied upon by the defendant was
held not to be conclusive. The reason is stated to be -as follows: "Though the plaintiff admits in his declaration that the
suits instituted before the magistrate by the defendant were
decided against him, he sufficiently countervails the effect of
that admission by alleging that the defendant, well knowing
that he had no cause of action, and that the plaintiff had
a full defence, prevented the plaintiff from procuring the
necessary evidence to make out that defence by causing him
to be detained a prisoner until the judgments were obtained,
and by alleging that the hnprisonment was for the very purpose of preventing a defence to the actions."
Commenting on this case, the Court of Appeals of Kentucky
in S'tling v. Besore, 12 3. Mon. 551, 555, say: "The principle
settled in the case last cited we unddrstand to be that such a
judgment will not in every possible state of case be deemed to
be conclusive of the question of probable cause; but that, like
judgments in other cases, its effect may be destroyed by showing that it was procured by fraud or other undue means."
That court proceeds to state the rule as follows: "Thecorrect
doctrine on the subject is, in our opinion, that the decree or
judgment in favor of the plaintiff, although it be afterwards
reversed, is, in cases where the parties -have appeared and
proof has been heard on both sides, conclusive evidence of
probable cause, unless other matters be relied upon to impeach
the judgment or decree and show that it was obtained by
fraitd; and, in that case; it is indispensable that such matter
should be alleged in the plaintiff s declaration; for, unless it
be done, as the other facts which have to be stated establish
the existence of probable cause, the declaration is suicidal.
The plaintiff's declaration *rill itselfI always furnish evidence
of probable cause when it states, as it must do, the proceedings
that have taken place in the suit alleged to be malicious, and

CRESCENT LIVE STOCK CO. o. BUTCHERS' UNION.

151

Opinion of the Court.

shows that a judgment or decree has been rendered against
the plaintiff. To counteract the effect of the judgment or
decree and the legal deduction of probable cause, it is incumbent upon him to make it appear in his declaration that suchjudgment or decree was unfairly obtained, and was the result
of acts of malice, fraud, and oppression on the part of the
defendant, designed and having the effect to deprive him of
the opportunity and necessary means to have defeated the su.
and obtained a judgment in his favor."
The limitations upon the geperal principle declared in Burt
v. Place, 'bln svipra, were followed by the Supreme C~urt of
Maine, in WVith am v. Gowen, 14 Maine, 362, and both decisions
were referred to in the subsequent case of Payson v. Caswell,
22 Maine, 212, "226,where the court said: "In these two cases,
we have instances of exceptions to the general rule, indicative
of the general nature of the characteristics which might be
expected to attend them; but the rule itself remains unimpaired. If there be a conviction before a magistrate having
jurisdiction of the subject-matter, not obtained by undue
means, it will be conclusive evidence of probable pause."
The propriety of this limitation of the rule seems to have
been admitted by the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts
in Bacon v. Towne, 4 Cush. 217, 236, though in later cases it
reiterated the broader rule a 6riginally.stated in lT7ltney v.
Peckehum, vbi s?Ta. Parker v. Jbtntigton, 7 Gray, 36;
S. C. 56 Am. Dec. 455.
This seems to reconcile the appa'rent contradiction in the
authorities, and states the rule,-which we think to be well
grounded in reason, fair and just to both parties, and consistent with the principle on which the action for malicious prosecution is founded.
It is, perhaps, not material in this case to define the rule
with precision, and to attempt to state with accuracy the. precise effect to be given to a judgment or decree of the court as
proof of probable cause under all circumstances, because in the
present case the decree of the Circuit Couit of the United
States was adjudged to be entitled to no effect whatever as
evidence in support of the defence of the plaintiff in error.

152

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of .the Court.

The ground on which the Supreme Courl of Louisiana proceeded, as stated in its opinion, is explained to be as follows:
Shortly after the adoption of the Constitution of 1879, the
plaintiff in error instituted a suif in the state court of Louisiana,
which was finally decided by the Supreme Court of the state in
Crescent City Saughter-HouseCo. v.. The City of Hew OrZeans,
33 La..Ann. 934.. The object of the suit was to obtain-a writ"
of injunction "restraining the city of New Orleans from entertaining any petitions for, and from ever designating any place
or places for, the lafiding, yarding, sheltering, or slaughtering
any animal or animals intended for human food in the parishes
of Orleans, Jefferson, and St. Bernard, other than at the
slaughter-houses and premises of the petitioner, and above the
United States barracks on the east or left bank of the MIississippi River, and above the depot of Morgan's Louisiana and
Texas Railroad, on the west or right bank or side of the
Mississippi River."
There was a judgment dismissing the plaintiff's suit, and dissblving the injunction provisionally granted, from which the
plaintiff appealed to the Supreme Court of Louisiana. That
court affirmed the judgment, holding that the articles of the
new constitution had destroyed the monopoly claimed by the
plaintiff, and that this was a valid exercise of power on the
part of the State of Louisiana, not in violation of any provision
of the Constitution of the United States. Speaking of the action of the present plaintiff in error in bringing that suit, the
Supreme Court of Louisiana, in its opinion in the present case,
37 La. Ann. 87', 876, says: "The questions involved were serious and important. Defendant's right to assert judicially
the validity bf his contract, and to resist by all legal remedies
the execution of any state law which impaired it, was un~questioned. The question involved was Federal in its nature, and
the courts of the state, and perhaps of the United States, were
equally open to it for the vindication of its alleged right; and,
in either forum, it was entitled to appeal to the Supreme C6urt
of the United States for the final and conclusive settlement of
the question." And, referring to the judgment in that suit, it
also says : "It is important to estimate the scope and effect of

CRESCENT LIVE STOCK-CO. ,v.BUTCHERS' UNION.
1 Opinion
this decision.

153

of the Court.

It was an authoritative judicial' determination,

by a competent court, of questions submitted to it at the in,
stance of the company itself. In denying the rights claimed
by the company, and in affirming the right of the city to regulate slaughtering within her limits and to designate places for
the conduct of such business, it necessarily affirmed the right
of persons complying with such regulations to transact that
business at such places, and denied the right of this company
to interfere with them. If there was error in' the decision,
that error could be corrected by one tribunal only, the Supreme
Court of the United States. Until the questions involved had
been determined differently by that high tribunal, the decision
of this court was entitled to be accepted as the law by this litigant. Technical principles of lis pendenm and res judicata
might not debar the company from prosecuting another suit
against a different party involving the same subject-matter;
but if such suit rested exclusively upon the assertion of rights
which this court had directlydetermined that the company
did not possess, it could find no protection against the charge
of being , malicious prosecution, save in the production of a
decision of the Supreme Court of the United States holding
that our opinion was error."
The following extracts from the same opinion are on the
same point :
"We are bound to hold that there was entire absence of
probable cause. The suit involved absolutely nothing but
questions of law. Those identical questions had been submitted
tor this court by thisvery prosecutor in a case precisely analogous, and had beeii determined against it. It was thus authoritatively advised what the law was. If it was dissatisfied
with the opinion, its remedy was clear by appeal to the United
States Supreme Court, and it had actually availed itself of that
remedy on writ of error which was pending and undetermined
when this suit was -brought. It must- be carefully observed
that, though the Butchers' Union Company was not technically
a party to the suit against the city, the questions of right between it and the Oresdent City Company were as directly involved as if it had been a party. If the city had the right to

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

regulate slaughtering within her limits, and to designate places
for its lawful conduct, obviously persons complying with such
regulations had the right to transact the business. If she had
not that right, no person could lawfully slaughter elsewhere
than at the old company's slaughter-house."
"But it is claimed that the prosecutor acted under the advice
of counsel learned in the law. , That is certainly true, and would
ordinarily protect. " But here the client was in possession of
the opinion of this court on the very point in its own case, involving the same subject-matter. It had no need for advice of
counsel. That advice was simply that the opinion of this court
was error. Counsel had the undoubted right to entertain such
opinion, and so to advise its client; the only lawful remedy
under such advice consisted in an appeal to the United States
Supreme Court. If it chose to act otherwise on such advice, it
acted at its peril, and can take no protection therefrom. The
only lawful action it could take under such advice had been
already taken in the writ of error from the IThited States
Supreme Court."
"lh or does the decision of the judges of the Circuit Court of
the United States afford a better shield. They are not vested.
with authority to review or reverse the decisions of this court.
The effeot of their action was not only to overrule our opinion,
but practically to reverse our decree. For of what avail was the
right decreed by us in favor of the city, to regulate slaughtering.
and to designate places therefor, if persons complying with
those regulations could be enjoined by the United Statea Circuit Coui from conducting the business at such plices ? It is
obviou§ that the entire subject-matter of the injunction uit
was embraced in and disposed of by our decree; and that
though the Butchers' Union Company was not nominally a
party, its rights and those of all persons to transact the business of slaughtering in this city, being subsidiary to and springing directly from the right of the city, were necessarily
involved in and protected by our decree."
"Put the ground on which we r&st oar conclusion on the
question of probable cause is, that our decree in the suit, to
which the defendant corporation was a party, was, until re-

CRESCENT LIVE STOCK CO. v. BUTCHERS' UNION.

155

Opinion of the Court.

vii-sed, the law to it so far as the subject-matter thereof is concerned; that the prosecution of a suit which had no foundation, except in the assumption that our decree was not law,
was without probable caus3; and that neither the advice of
counsel, nor the opinion of judges of a cordinate court that
our decree was error, could furnish any cause whatever for the
prosecution of such suit."
It is conceded by the Supreme Court of Louisiana, in this
opinion, that its prior judgment in the case between the plaintiff in error and the city of New Orleans could not operate as
an esfoppel upon the principle of 1'es judicata, in the suit
which the plaintiff in error brought in the Circuit Court of
the United States, the prosecution of which is charged against
it as being malicious, because it was between different parties.
It is also admitted that the judgment was not a final one, but
by reason of the Federal question involved was subject to review and possible reversal by a writ of error from the Supreme
Court of the United States. -The prosecution of such a writ
of error, which was in fact actually sued out but subsequently
dismissed, is declared by the Supreme Court of Louisiana to be
the only lawful course which the plaintiff in error had a right
to pursue. The failure to prosecute that writ of error is charged
against the plaintiff in error, so as not only to deprive him of
the benefit of the defence of probable cause, but as sufficient
proof of malice in the subsequent institution of his suit in the
,Circuit Court of the United States; and these consequences, in
the opinion of the Supreme Court of Louisiana, are not alleviated by the admitted fact that the plaintiff in error acted
under the advice of counsel. Notwithstanding such advice,
the client itself, the Supreme Court of Louisiana declared, was
bound at its peril to take notice of its legal rights as defined
in that opinion of the Supreme Court of the state.
It is not shown in the present record on what grounds counsel proceeded in their advice, or the plaintiff in error in failing
to prosecute the writ of error from that judgment. It will be
observed that the only relief sought in that suit was a writ of
injunction against the city of New Orleans from taking the
preliminary steps under the ordinances of the city in reference

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

to entertaining petitions, and designating places, for the proiecution of the busin:6§s of-which it claimed to have a monopoly
under its charter.
In a similar case of the Crescent City LiveStock Zanding
and Sldughter-House Conpany v. The Police Jury, Paris4 of
Jeffersoh, Right Bank, decided by the Sipreme Court of Louisiana, 32 La. Ann. 1192,. the pairitiff, who -iSthe plaintiff in
error herein, sought to enjoin the defendant from granting
permission to any one to establish a slaughter-house in the
parish of Jefferson, on the ground that suph a grant of authority would be in violatio4 of th. exclusive rights given to it
under its charter; a case precisely analogous to that between
the plaintiff in error and the city of New Orleans, 33 La. Ann.
931. In the.case against the Police Jury of Jefferson Parish,
the appeal* and the petition 'of the plaintiff were dismissed.
In disposing of the case, the court say,p. 1196: "The averments of the petition disclose a clear case of prematurity of
complaint. It will be time enough, for the plaintiff to apply
for an injunction upon a sworn averment of proper facts if,
after the police jury will have passed the resolution or given
the permission, some party assumes to act upon that resolution and permission. For the determination of the motion to
dismiss an opinion necessarily had tb be expressed; not upon
the merits, for none as yet exist, but upon the sufficiency of
the sworn averment to justify the injunction."
It might, therefore, on the authority of this decision of the,
Supreme Court of Louisiana, be argued that the expression of
its opinion in the case of The C'escent City Slaughter-HZouse
Company v. The City of _lew Orleans, 33 La. Ann. 934, was
unnecessary to the decision of the cause, and obiter dictum,
and for aught that appears counsel may have advised that a
writ of error to reverse that judgment in the Sulpreme Court
of the Unitcd States would fail on the ground that the record
did not disclose the existence of a Federal question necessarily
to be passed on; for it has been the uniform doctrine of this
court that, where it appears that the judgment of the state
court must be affirmed -on other grounds disclosed in the record, it will not be reversed for an erroneous ruling of the state

CRESCENT LIV9 STOCK CO. v. B:UTCHERS' UNION.

157.

Opinion of the Court.

court on a Federal question not necessary to the decision of
the cause. Mlurdock v. City of Atemphis, 20 Wall. 590, 634:;
,eniine v. Loewenthal, 110 U. S. 222; Erwin v. Law'y, 7
How. 172; Grbson v. Chouteau, S Wall. 314.
However that may be, we are of the opinion, on other
grounds, that the Supreme Court of Louisiana in this case
erred in tot giving due effect to the decree in question of the
Circuit Court of the United States. The latter is a court
codrdinate to the Supreme Court of Louisiana in authority,
ahd equal in dignity, being the highest Federal court sitting
in that state, whose judgments and decrees axe final and con-,
elusive, subject only to review and reversal- in the Supreme
Court of the United States. In the case in which the decree
complained of was pronounced the Circuit Court did not act
without jurisdiction, the subject-matter of the suit .being a
controversy arising under .the Constitution of the United
States. The argument of the counsel for the defendant in
error to the contrary, which deduces what the judge of,the
inferior court in his charge to the jury alleged to be a usurpa-"
tion of-jurisdiction, merely from the fact that its decree was
reversed by this court, could only be true if the general proposition were true that all'judgments reversible for error are
'void for want of jurisdiction. Having jurisdiction of the
parties and of the subject-matter of the suit, the judges of
the Circuit Court were bound to declare the law of the case
between the parties in the light of their own convictions, and
under a sense of their official responsibilities, not being under
any legal obligation to regard the decision of the Supreme
Court of Louisiana upon a question of Federal law as controlling by reason of its authority, whatever respect and deference they might see fit to accord to it by way of persuasion
and argument. And their judgment or decree when rendered
is binding and perfect, between the-parties until.reversed, without regard to any adverse opinion or judgment of any other,
court- of merely concurrent jurisdiction. Its integrity, its
validity, and its effect are complete in all respects between
all parties in every suit and in every forum where it is legitimately produced as the foundation of Imn action; or of a

OCTOBER TERMT, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

defence, either by plea or in proof, as it would be in any
other circumstances. While it *remainsin force it determines
the rights of the parties between themselves, and may be carried into execution. in due course of law to its full extent, furnishing' a complete protection to all who act in compliance'
with its .mandate,and even after reversal it still remains, as
in the case of etery other judgment or decree in like circumstances, sufficient evidence in favor of the plaintiff who instituted the suit or action in which it is rendered, when sued for
a malicious prosecution, that he had probable cause for his
proceeding.
Neither was there anything in the situation or conduct of
the plaintiff in error that could deprive it of the protection of
the decree of the Circuit Court of the United States in this
action. The- fact that it had exercised an election to bring
its suit against the city of New Orleans in the state court
could have no legal effect upon its right afterwards to -bring
a similar suit against other parties in the Circuit Court of the
tnited States. Its right of choice was not exhausted by a
single exercise, and justified it in subsequently invoking the
jurisdiction of the courts of the United States, no matter with
what motive or for what purpose. As we have already seen
and declared, the existence of express malice, however flagrant
or unjustifiable, could not affect the exercise of this right, or
deprive the party of the benefit of the judgment of the court
as proof of a probable, cause for the institution of the suit.
Neither was the plaintiff in error bound to reject the advice of
its counsel on the ground of its own presumed knowledge of
the law, as declared in the opinion of the Supreme Court of
Louisiana in the prior suit. It had a right to test the soundness of that judgment by seeking the jurisdiction of a cordinate court, whose dpcision would be, of equal authority and
dignity with that of the Supreme Court of the State, both
being final, between the parties to the particular litigation
until reversed by the Supreme Court of the Unit6d States.
The plaintiff in error owed no allegiance to the courts of- the
state greater than that-due to the courts of the United States;
it had an equal righi in both to vindicate what it claimed to

CRESCENT LIVE STOCK CO. v. BUTCHERS' UNION.

159

Opinion of the Court.

be its rights by remedies appropriate to that purpose, and
against all parties infringing them. The fact that the Supreme
Court of Louisiana had spoken first gave no additional weight
to its decision. Whatever deference may be due to the decisions of the state court of final resort in every case in which it
has spoken, and whatever may be the respect to which-its
decisions upon questions of purely local law*established -as
rules of property may 'be entitled, they are not authority
binding upon the courts of the United States, sitting even in
the same statb, where the questions ifivolved and decided
relate to rights arising under the Constitution and laws of
the United States.
But the rule in question, which declares that the judgment
or decree of a court hav.ing jurisdiction of the parties and of
the subject-matter, in favor of the plaintiff, is sufficient evidence of probable cause for its institution, although subsequently reversed by an appellate tribunal, was not established
out of any special regard to the person of the party. As we
have already seen, it will avail him as a complete defence in
an action for a malicious prosecution, although it may appear
that he brought his suit maliciously for the mere purpose of
vexing, harassing, and injuring his adversary. The rule is
founded on deeper grounds of public policy in vindication of
the dignity and authority of judicial tribunals constituted for
the purpose of administering justice according to law, and in
order that their judgments and decrees may be invested with
that force and sanctity which shall be a shield and protection
to all parties and persons in privity .with them. The rule,
therefore, has respect to the court and to its judgment, ana
not to the parties, and no misconduct or demerit on their part,
except fraud in procuring the judgment itself, can be permitted to detract from its force. It is equally true and equally
well settled in the foundations of .the law that neither mis-.
conduct nor demerit can be imputed to the court itself. It
is an invincible presumption of the law that the judicial tribunal, acting within its jurisdiction, has acted impartially and
honestly. The record of its proceedings imports verity; its
judgmnents cannot be impugned except by direct process from

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Mames of Counsel.

superipr authority. The integrity and value of the judicial
system, as aai institution for the administration of- public and
private justice, rests largely upon this wholesome principle.
That principle has been disregarded in the present case by
the Supreme Court of Louisiana in failing to give due effect to
the decree of the Circuit Court of the United States as sufficient
evidence in support of the defence of the plaintiff in error in
this action, so far as it is an action for the recovery of damages
for a malicious prosecution.
Thejudgmwnt of the Supreme Court of louisianaon the bo d
itseof, for damages occasioned by its breach, against the
principal and surety, is not attacked in this proceeding.
i is so far afflrmed. .Butthat part which constitutes a
judgment against the Crescent City .Live-Stock Landing
and VSa.ughter-House Company solely, for damagesfor the
malicious prosecution, is reversed, -and the cause is remanded for further proceedings therein.not inconsistent
with this opinion; and it i so ordered.
LITTLE ROCK,AND FORT SVITH RAILWAY v. HUNTINGTON.
.- PFlr

FROM- THE
TE

CIROUIT

COURT

OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

EASTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANqSAS.

Submitted January 6,1887.--Decided January 24, 1887.

A mortgage of a railroad and of lands granted by Congress to aid in its
construction to trustees, which directs the trustees to apply moneys
"arisingfrom the sale of the lands to the payment of the coupons attached,to ,the bonds secured by the mortgage, also authorizes them
t6 purchase therewith over-due coupons which have been cut from
those bonds and have been deposited with the trustees of the mortgage
for the purpose of securing scrip iisued to the holders of those coupons,
-with the object of extending the payment of the amount due on them
beyond the time of payment named in them.
'BILL

in equity. The case is stated in the opiniQn of the

court.

Mr. Williamr S. Rogers for appellant.
-Mfr. C. F Huntington for appellees.

