OCTOBER TERM,

1886,

Statement of Facts.

-MERIWTHER '. MUHLENBURG COUNTY COURT.
ERROR-TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.
Argued January 5, 1887..- Decided January 31, 1887.

Following the decisions of the Supreme Court of Kentucky, this court
holds that the justices of the peace of MIuhlenburg County, in that state,
do not form a necessary part of the county court when levying a tax to
satisfy a judgment against the county, under § 9 of the Act of the Legislature of Kentucky, of February 24, 1868, amending the charter of the
Elizabethtown and Paducah Railroad Company.

MERIWETHER, the plaintiff in error, obtained a judgment in
the court below against the county of Muhlenburg, in the State
of Kentucky, f6r the amount of certain unpaid coupons of
bonds, issued by it in payment of a subscription to the capital
stock of the Elizabethtown and Paducah Railroad Company.
Execution having been returned "no property found to satisfy
the same or any part thereof," and the county court of the
county having refused to levy a tax sufficient to pay the
judgment, Meriwether filed the petition in this case against
the judge of that court, praying, for a mandamus compelling
the levy and collection of such tax. The plaintiff based his
right to relief upon the ninth section of an act of the General
Assembly of.'Kentiicky, approved February 24, 1868, amending
the chartek of the Elizabethtown and Paducah Railroad Company. That section provided:
"That in case any county, city, town, or election district
shall subscribe to the capital stock of said Elizabethtown and
Paducah Railroad Company, under the provisions of this act,
and issue bonds for the payment of, such subscription, it shall
be the duty of the county court of such county, the city council of such city, and the trustees of such town, to cause to be
levied and collected a tax sufficient to pay the semiannual interest on the bonds issued and the cost of collecting such tax,
and paying the interest, on all the real estate and personal

M)ERIWETHER v.' :MUI1LENBURG" COTI-RT.
Opinion of the Court.

property in said county, .city, or town, subject to taxation under the rqvenue laws'of the state, including the amounts -owned
by residents of such county, city, br tovrn, or election districts,
which cught to be given in under the equalization laws."
Sese. Acts 1867-8, p. 622.
This proceeding having been instituted against the judge of
the county court alone, a demurrer to the petition, on the
ground of defect of parties, raised the objection that, within
the meaning of the foregoing statute, the justices of the peace
of the county must be a part of the court when making a lvy
for the purpose asked by the plaintiff. The court below, being
of- opinion that the point was well taken, sustained the demurrer. An amended petition was filed, stating among other
facts, that there were no justices of the peace of the county;
that the justices elected from time to time, and who had qualified, resigned their positions in order that there might be no
officers in existence who could, under the theory of the defepdant, levy the required tax. A demurrer to the amended petition having been sustained, and the plaintiff having elected not
to amend further, the action was dismissed.
Mr. Alexander P. Hlum~prey for plaintiff in error. -Mr. W.
John .iMason Brown, and. .M.
0. Dodd, .1r. J I. Dodd, .Mr.
George . Davie were with him on the brief.
Xhr. 7

W.TBrown for defendant in error.

MR. Jusn

RILAx,

after stating the case as above re-

ported, delivered the opinion of the court.
The only question necessary to be considered is, whether the
justices of 'the peace of M[uhlenburg County constifute -a necessary part of the county court when leving 'a tax to pay
plaintiff's judgment.
The constitutioi of Kentucky, adopted in 1850, provided
for the organization of a county court in each county; to consist of a presiding. judge and two associate judges, any two of
the three to constitute a quorum; with power in the General
Assembly to abolish the office of associate judges whenever it

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

was deemed expedient, "in which event they may associate
with said court any or all of the justices of the peace" elected
in the several districts into which the county is divided. Constitition, Art. IV:. It is also declared in the same instrument
that "the General Assembly may provide, by law, that the
justices of the peace in each county shall sit at the court of
claims and assist'in laying the. county levy and making appropriations." Ib. § 37. The Words "court of claims" are here
employed to designate the county court when it sits for the
purpose, among others, of ascertaining the claims against, and
the exTenses incurred by, the county, and of providing for
their payment by appropriations out of the county levy -such
levy being the annual tax imposed for county purposes, not
upon property, but upon persons residing in the county, without reference to the value of their property. 1 Rev. Stat. Ky.
296; c. 26. The county court is also described as "the county
court of levy and disbursements," when reference is made to
its duty "to erect aiid keep a sufficient county jail." Ib. 329,
c. 2T7, Art. 21, § 7.
The Revised Statutes provide that the county courts shall
have jurisdiction to lay and uperintend the collection and disbursement of the county levy;' to erect, superintend, and repair all rheedful county buildingi3 and structures; and "to
superintend ai~d control the fiscal affairs and property of the
county, and Io make provisioh for, the. maintenance of the
poor." lb. 327, c. 27, Art. XIX. Tb y also provide that
"the office of associate judge of the county court is abolished,"
and that "a county court shall be held in each county at the
seat of justice thereof by a presiding judge of the court, on the
days prescribed by law," except" that "at the court of claims
the justices of the peace of the, county shall sit with
I .
the presiding judge and constitute the court"; and "justices of
the peace shall only compose a part of the court when it is engaged in laying the county levy, and in appropriating money
and in transacting other financial business of the county." Ib.
328, Art. XXI, § 2.
The same provisions substantially are to' be found in the
General Statutes of the state which went into effect in 1873.
(-.n. Stat. Kr. 269, c. 27; Ib. 304, c. 28, Art. 15. 16, and'17.

MERIWETHER v. MUHLENBURG

COURT.

Opinion of the Court.

It is clear that the levying and collection of a tax to meet a
county subscription to the stock of a railroad company, is not
a business connected with the laying of the county levy, or
with appropriations of money out of such levy. But it is insisted that it is a matter relating to the "fiscal affairs ' of the
county, and is "financial business of the county," the control
or management of which beiongs, under the law, to the county
court, composed of the presiding judge and the justices of the
peace. On the other hand, the plaintiff inerror contends, this
case is taken out of the operation of the general statute, by the
fact that the special statute under which the county made the
subscription and issued the bonds in question imposes upon
the county court, held by the presiding- judge, the absolute
duty of levying the necessary tax.
Upon this point there seems to bea settled course of decision in the highest court of Kentucky; and upon such a subject as the organization or composition of a tribunal established
by the fundamental law of the state, those decisions are,' at
least, entitled to great weight. Bu gess v. Selignan, 107
U. S. 20, 34; Claiborne county v. Brooks 111 U. S. 400, 410;
_Xorton v. &7belby County, 118 U. S. 425.
The first case in the Court of Appeals of Kentucky upon
this question is Bowling Gr'een and iMadisonville ?ailload Ownpany v. Warmem County, 10 Push, 'll, decided in 1875. That
was a proceeding to compel the county court to execute and
deliver bonds in payment of a subscription to the stock of the
railroad company,- a subscription sustained by a majority of
the legal voters at an election held under the order of the
county court, composed of the presiding judge alone. The defence was that the county court, held by that officer, the justices being absent, was without authority to call the election
there in question. The court, speaking by Pryor, J., after observing that, as a general rule, when reference is made to a
county court, or the action of a county court, it is understood
as a court presided over by the county judge alone, said:
"A county court, held by the county judge or by the judgi
in conjunction with the justices, has no power to impose such
taxation as this on the people of the county or to submit the

358

OCTOBER TERMII, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

qnestion[ of taxation to the popular' vote, without some special
legislative enactment; and in the absence of any such original
jurisdiction belonging to either mode of organizatidn, it remains to be determined whether the legislative intent, to be
gathered from the provisions of appellant's charter, and par-ticularly the sixteenth section, was to empower the county
judge alone to exercise this right, or to require that the justices of the county should be associated with him. If the
direction of the legislature had been imperative on the county
court to enter the order submitting the questior of subscription to the people, there would be little difficulty in determining this question; for, if the county court had been deprived
of all discretion and compelled to obey a mandatory act, it
would be immaterial whether the county court, composed of
the justices pr the county judge, made the order, as either or
both must obey.
"In this case the legislature seems to have departed from
the usual course of legislation with reference to such charters,
and instead of exercising its own judgment as to the interests
of the people in this particular locality, or of permitting them
primarily to do so, required that the county court, preliminary
to a vote on the question by the people, should first, in its discretion, determine the propriety of such legislative action.
This action on the 'part of the county court was certainly not
judicial. The appellant had no right or claim on the people
to make the subscription or upon the county -court to
order. the vote. The company was empowered by this act
to make a request only of the county court that it might in its
discretion accede to or refuse.

.

.

.

It was a matter of

vital importance to the' people of the county of Warren,
as well as, the other counties to whom such a proposition
might have been made by appellant, that they should fully
understand the nature of the burden they were' about assuming, and the legislature in its wisdom saw proper'to give them
the benefit of the' judgment of those who represented -the
various localities and interests in each 'county, in order that
they might deternnine whether the benefits to be derived from
the construction of this railway would be an equivalent for
the large expenditure to b6 made."

MERIWETHER v. MUHLENBURG

COURT.

Opinion of the Court.

So the mandamus was refused upon the ground that the
special statute intended that the question of submitting a subscription to the vote of the electors should be determined, in
the first instance, by the county court, composed of the judge
and justices.
The same point* again arose in the Court of Appeals of
Kentucky in Logaw County v. Caldwell, 1880, and in Cook
v. Lyon, County, 1884. Neither of these cases is reported in
the printed volume of decisions, but a copy of the opinion
in each has been submitted to us. The case of Logan County
v. Caldwell involved the validity of a subscription to the
capital stock of the Owensville and Russellville Railroad Co.,
and of the bonds issued in payment thereof - the subscription
having been voted.at a popular election called by the county
court held by the judge- alone. The court, speaking by Chief
Justice Cofer, reaffirmed the rule announced in Bowling Geeu
and .adisonville Rdilroad Co. v. Wa2rren County, observing
that it proceeded, upon the idea that, as the justices of the
peace are by law part of the 'county court in laying the levy,
in making appropriations of money, and generally when the
financial interests of the county are involved, it ought to be
presumed, when a discretion is given by law to the- county
court in respect to a matter relating to the financial affahis of
the county, that the legislature intended by the phrase " county
court," that tribunal to which it had committed the management -of the general financial interests of the county. Adhering to this rule, the court sustained the subscription and bonds
of Logan County upon the ground that an act, amendatory of
the charter of the oompany, and which was in force when the
election was held, imperatively required the county court to
make the subscription and issue the bonds, in accordance with
the vote of the majority; and hence, as. held in the former
case, it was "immaterial whether a court composed of the
justices or held by the presiding judge alone made the order,
as either must obey."
,In Cook v. Lyon County the question was as to the validity
of certain bonds and coupons issued in .conformity with a
popular vote at an election called by the county court, held

OCTOBER TERMI,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

by the presiding judge alone, upon the 'question of a subscription to the stoek of the Elizabethtown and Paducah IRailroad
Company, under tliery

act lzow before us. The court said:

"It is urged that the bonds and- coupons are not valid,
because the county judge, in ordering the election to take the
:vote as to whether the county should subscribe stock to said
road, and in making the subscription and issuing the bonds
therefor, acted alone 9nd withoht associating the justices of
the county with him. The act in question provides that all
this shall be done by the 'county court,' and contains no language from which it can be even inferred that the legislature
intended that it should be done by the county levy or fiscal
court of the county; and although there is some reason in the
claim that when the term ' county court ' is used as to fiscal
matters, it refers to the fiscal court, yet, as a general rule, when
reference is made to a county court, or the action of a county
court, it means a court presided over by the county judge
alone, and should be held to so mean when used in connection
with fiscal matters if it relates to mere ministerial duties.
Moreover, in this instance, the direction of the legislature to
the county court to do thes& ministerial acts was imperative,
and it is, therefore, hnmaterial whether it was done by the
county judge alone, or by him and the justices, even admitting
(as we do not) that a bona. &ie holder of the bonds can be
affected by -such matters."
Taking these decisions as the basis upon which to rest our
judgment in this case, it only remains to inquire whether the
provisions of the act of February 24, 1868, are mandatory in
their character, or only invested the county court -with -adiscretion in respect to the material matters involved in the subscription by AMuhlenburg County. When the railroad company
requests the county court of any county, through or adjacent
to which it is proposed to construct the road, to subscribe,
either absolutely or conditionally, a specified amount *to its
stock, the act provides that "t h e county court shall forthwith
order an election to be held," &c. The sections authorizing
subscriptions by precincts, cities, or towns are equally imperative.

Sees. 5 and 6.

When a county

.

.

.

subscribes

MERIWETHER v. M1UHLENBURG COURT.
Opinion of the Court.

under the provisionsof the act, "it shall be the duty of the
county court .

.

to issue the bonds of such county," &c.,

to be signed by the "county judge and countersigned by. the
clerk." .Sec. 7. In case of a subscription by an election district in any county, "it shall be the duty of the county court
of such county to issue the bonds of such district or disfricts
in payment thereof," &c. See. 8. We have aheady referred
to the ninth section, which provides that, upon a subscription
by any county, "it shall be the duty of the county court of
such county . . . to cause to be levied and collected a tax
sufficient to pay the semiannual interest on the bonds issued
and the cost of collecting such tax and paying'the interest, on
all real estate and personal property in said county," &c. On
levying a tax as provided in the ae{, to pay the interest on
bonds issued by.a county, "it shall be the duty of the county
court . . . to appoint three resident. tax-payers
wl o shall be styled the Board of Commissioners of the Sinking
Fund 6f such county." Sec. 10. If dividends upon the stbek
subscribed prove to be insufficient to enable the county to pay
its bonds at maturity, new bonds may be issued; but if the
county deems that course inexpedient, "it shall be the duty of
the county court . . . to cause a tax to be levied and collected on all property in such county . . . subject to tax-

ation," &c. And so of all the remaining sections of the
company's charter.
It would be difficult, we think, to frame an act more mandatory in its character than that of _'ebruary 24, 1868. None
of its provisions leave room for the exercise of discretion by
the county court in respect to any matter upon which it is
required to act.. The learned court below announced, that,
except for the fourth section of this act, it would decidefollowing the decisions in Bowling G'een, v. JX]adi.on'ille
.Railrfoad Company, and logan, County v. Caldwell- thdt the
"county court" in the company's charter meant a court held by
the presiding judge alone. That section provides: "4. That
the person acting as sheriff at the several precincts shall return
to the clerk of the county court within (three) days after tl6
day of such election the poll-books of their respective pre-

OCTOBER 'TERM, 1886:
Opinion of the Court.

cincts, and on the next day thereafter the county.judge and
county clerk shall count the vote; and if it shall appear that
the majority of those voting voted in favor of the subscription
of stock as proposed, the county judge shall order the vote to
be entered on the record, and the subscriptions to be made by
the clerk on behalf of the county on the terms specified in the
order submitting the question to a vote."
We are unable to concur in the suggestion that the use of
the words "county judge," in the fourth section of the act, in
connection with the direction that the vote be entered on the
record, that is, upon the records of the county court, is inconsistent with the idea that "county court," as used in the company's charter, meant merely the county court, held by the
judge thereof. As the counting must have been by individuals, not by a court, the requirement that the county clerk
aiid county judge should perform that duty, and that the latter should cause the result to be entered on the records of
the court, does not, we think, show an intention to invest
the county court with any discretion whatever in ordering the
election, or in issuing the bonds, or in levying taxes to pay
the bond and the interest thereon. In the absence of that
discretion, it is the ddiEfy of the county court, held by the presiding judge alone, to levy the required tax. Such was' the
decision in Cook v. .1yon County, to which the attention of the
court below does n'ot appear to have been called.
The counsel for the defendant in error-refer to § 2, Art. XVII,
c. 28 of the General Statutes of Kentucky,.page 306, (ed. Bullitt
and Feland, 1881,) which provides that, "if under the provisions
of any law hereafter enacted, it is required of the county court
to submit to the qualified voters of the county, or to the qualified voters of any local community therein, the proposition
to take stock in any company or to levy any tax other than
for connon .school purposes; or, if, under any law hereafter
enacted, it is required that the county court shall decide upon
the issue of any bonds of the county, or of any district or
local community therein, to any railroad or other company,
it shall be the duty of. the county judge to cause all the
justices of the peace of such county to be summoned to at-

HARMON v. ADAMS.
Opihion of the Court.

tend at the term of the court at which any such action is
proposed to be taken, who shall be associated with the
county judge and cofistitute the county court for the
occasion."
It is sufficient to say that, as that provision, by its terms,
only applies to laws "hereafter enacted," that is, enacted after
the general statutes went into operation, it cannot affect the
present case, which-depends upon the cbnstruction to be given
to an act passed in 1868.
As the court below erred in sustaining the demurrer to the
original petition,
The judgment is 'reversed, 'with. directions to overrule tkat
dermurrer, and for such other proceedings*as may be consistent with this opinion.

HARMON v. ADAMS.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
Submitted January 10, 1887.-Decided February 7, 1887.

An agreement by the payee of a promissory note to release the maker from
the payment of the principal on the payment, in advance each year, until
p:.yee's death, of interest at a rate above the legal rate, is no defence in asuit by the payee's executor, without proof of such payment until is
defth,

Assumsrr on a promissory note. Judgmbnt for plaintiffs.
Defendant sued out this writ of*error. The case is stated, in
the opinion of the court.
Mrb. Ckarkes EI. WVood and 3.
in error.
Afr. John P'.
MR. JusTiCE

Robert -Doyle for plaintiff

Fileo* for defendants in error.

MATrHEwS delivered the opinion of the court.

This whs an action of assumpsit, brought in the Circuit Court
of the United States for the Northern District of Illinois, on
September 25, 1885, the plaintiffs being executors of Jacob

