SCHLEY v. PULLIAN

CAR COMPANY.

Syllabus.

that the exemption from taxation, given by such charters as
that granted to the St. Joseph and Iowa Railroad Company,
should be extended to branch roads constructed under the act
of 1868. As that statute does not grant immunity from taxation to roads constructed under its provisions, and as the sys-

tem established by it is complete in itself without reference to
other legislative enactments, the present claim to exemption
must be denied; for it is the settled doctrine of this court that
an immunity from taxation by the state will not be recognized
unless granted in terms too plain to be mistaken. Iviovienee
Bank v. Bill'ngs,4 Pet. 514 ; Philadelphia,TFWibnington. & BaltnoPe Railroad v. i[afyoand,10 How. 376; Ofernphi.s & ittle
Rock Railroad v. Com mis~'oners, 112 . S. 609, 617; South,westernRailroadv.TV5ight, 116 U. S. 231, 236; '7"ksburg,&c.,
Railroadv. Dennis, 116 U. S. 665, 667.
As our conclusion upon this point accords with that of the
state court, and is sufficient to dispose of the whole case, we
omit any consideration of other questions presented in argument.
Judgment a/flrmed.

SCI LEY v. PULLMAN CAR COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIERCUIT COU1RT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR THE

NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
Submitted January 6, 1887. - Decided March 7, 1887.

An irregular act of practice by an attorney of record rebuked.
A deed, dated May 26, 1856, by C. L., grantor, described as "sister and heirat-law of H. M.," and as "of the county of St. Ciair and state of Michigan," which conveyed to the grantee a tract of land in Illinois, and was
signed and sealed by C. L. and by W. L., the name of W. L. not appearing in the granting clause of the deed, and which was acknowledged
May 27, 1856, by said "C. L. and W. L. her husband," held sufficient to
pass said title of husband and wife, under the statute of Illinois of :February 22, 1847, then in force, respecting the conveyance of lands or real
estate situate in Illinois by a ferne covert not residing within the state,
and respecting her joining with her husband in the execution of the
deed.
A magistrate's certificate, attached to a deed of land in Illinois, that on the
27th of May, 1856, personally came C. L. and W. L., her husband, "known

OCTOBER -TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

to me to be the persons who executed the foregoing instrument, and
acknowledged the same to be their free act and deed," is equivalent to
stating that they came before the officer, and were personally known to
him to be the real persons who subscribed the deed, and in this respect
complied with the requirements of the statutes of Illinois then in force.
An officer's certificate of the acknowledgment on the 27th May, 1856, of a
deed of land in Illinois by a mairried woman, showing.her privy examination separhte and apart from her husband, and which shows that she,,
"fully understanding the contents of the foregoing instrument, acknowledged," &c., is a sufficient compliance with the statutes of the statp.iu
force at that time respecting the communicating the contents of such
a deed to her.

EJEOTMENT. Plea, general issue. Judgment for defendahlt.
Plaintiff sued out this writ of error. The case is stated in the
opinion of the court.
Mr. . Coming Judd, A&. Albert Ritchie, fir. F. Ritchie,

Xr.

. B. Esher, and .Mr. -. S.Jud, for plaintiff in error.

JMr. Alfred Ennis for defendant in error.
Mm. JusTicEn, HatA-

delivered.the opinion of the court.

This is an action of ejectment, in which the plaintiff in error
claims title to certain real estate in Cook County, Illinois, of
which PulLman's Palace Car Company is in possession. A jury
having been waived, the case was tried by the court, pursuant
to a stipulation between the parties, that judgment should be
entered for the defendant if the court was of opinion that a
certain deed was valid and binding as a conveyance by husband and wife of the real estate therein described.
The deed and the certificate of aclowledgment annexed
thereto, referred to in the stipulatioh, is as follows:
"Tins INDENTURE, made this twenty-sixth day of May, in the
year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and fifty-six,
witnesseth: That I, Christina Lynn, sister and heir-at-law of
henry Millspaugh, deceased, who was a recruit of Lieutenant
T. W. Denton, of Thirteenth Re-iment, United States Infantry, war of 1812, with Great Britain, of the coutity of St.
Clair, and State of Michigan, party of the first part, in con-

SCHLEY v. PULLMAN CAR COMPANY.
Opinion of the Court

sideration of the sum of forty-three dollars in hand paid by
Miton & Thomas C. McEwen, of the county of Orange qnd_
State of New York, party of the second part, the receipt of
which is hereby acknowledged, do hereby release, grant, bargain, and quit-claim unto the said party of the second part,
their heirs and assigns, forever, all her right, title, claim and
interest in that certain tract of land granted by the United
8tates unto David 3lillspaugh and Christina Lynn, the brother
and sister and only heirs-at-law of Henry Millspaugh, deceased,
as follows, to wit: [Here follows a description of the land]
.; to have and to hold the said premises, with all the
appurtenances thereunto belonging or in anywise appertaining,
to their only proper use, benefit and behoof of said parties of
the second part, their heirs and assigns, forever.
".In. witness whereof the said grantor- have hereunto set
our hands and seals the day and year first above written.
CHrnsTiNA LYvN.
"WILLL
LyN.

[sxAL.]
[sEAL.]

"Signed, sealed and acknowledged in presence of "ATY A. Lylr,
"OBED

SMTH.

"STATE OF AICHIGAN, CoUNr

OF ST. OLAIR, ss:

"On this twenty-seventh day of Mlay, A.D. 1856, before me,
a justice of the peace'in and for said county of St. Clair, personally came Christina Lynn and William Lynn, her husband,
known to me to be the persons who executed the foregoing
instrument, and acknowledged the game to be their free act
qnd deed; and the said Christina Lynn, having been by
"fii
privately examined separate and apart from the said husband,
and fully understanding the contents of the foregoing instrument, acknowledged that she executed said deed freely and
without any force or compulsion from her said husband or
from any one.
"OBED

SMITA,

Justice df the Peace."
The court being of opinion that the deed wqs vaiid to pass
to the grantees all the right, title, and interet of Christina
VOL. CXX-37

OCTOBER TElP.3,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

Lynn and William Lynn, her husband, in the real estate
therein described, entered judgment~for the defendant on its
plea of not uilty.
Before entering upon the consideration of the case it is
proper to notice the motion made in behalf of the plaintiff in
error, to strike out certain parts of the printed argument filed
by the counsel for the defendant in error. Notwithstanding
the agreement, that the case should be heard in the court
below upon the single question referred to in the stipulation,
the counsel for the defendant in error states many things,
which lie declares to be "incontrovertible facts," and within
the knowledge of opposing counsel, but which are wholly
unsustained by anything in the record. The motion to strike
out relates to those matters. The excuse given for this breach
of professional propriety is "the extreme brevity of the
record." But it is the same record upon which counsel for
the company succeeded for his client, and which, by agreement, contained all that was to be submitted to the court.
The excuse given furnishes no apology whatever for his violation of the terms of the stipulation, much less does it palliate
his attempt to influence the decision here, by reference to
matters not in the record, and which, he must have known,
could not be taken into consideration. It is only necessary to
say that the facts, dehors the record, which have been improperly introduced into the brief of the counsel for the
defendant in error, have not in any degree influenced our
determination of the case.
The plaintiff insists that the deed was void under the laws
of-llinois, upon two grounds: 1. That the husband is not a
party to the deed; 2. That the acknowledgment is defective.
In L-ane v. Soulard,15 Ill. 123, it was held that the Revised
Statutes of Illinois of 1845 repealed all former laws on the
subject of conveyances of real estate, and authorized married
women within that state to convey land by joining with their
husbands and acknowledging the deeds in a specified way;
but that no, provision was made for the conveyance by nonresident married women of their lands in Illinois until the
passage of the act of February 2.2, 1847. See also Iiggins v.
Crosby, 40 Ill. 260; Rogers v. Hfiggins, 48 Ill. 211.

SCHtEY v. PULttAN, CAR COMPANY.
Opinion of the Court

This case depends mainly upon the construction to be placed
upon the second section of the latter act, which was in force
when the deed of May 26, 1856, was executed. That section
is as follows: ,
1"When anyfeme covert, not residing in this state, being above
the age of eighteen years, shall join with her husband in the
execution of any deed, mortgage, conveyance, or other writing
of, or relating to, any lands or real estate, situate within this
state, she should thereby be barred of and from all estate,
right, title, interest, and claims of dower therein, in like manner as if she was sole and, of full age. And any such feme
covert joining with her husband in the execution of a power
of attorney or other writing, authorizing the sale, conveyance,
or other disposition of lands or real estate as aforesaid, shall
be bound and concluded by the same, in respect to the right,
title, claim, or interest in such estate, as if .she.were sole and
of full age as'aforesaid; and the acknowledgment or proof of
such deed, mortgage, conveyance,, power of attorney, or other
writing may be the same as if she were sole, and shall entitle
such deed, mortgage, conveyance, power of attorney, or other
writing to be recorded. as is authorized by this act; and the
provisions of this section shall apply to deeds, mortgages,
conveyances, powers of attorney, and other writings heretofore, as well as those which may hereafter be executed." 2
Scates, Treat & Blackwell's Stat. Ill. 065; 1 Gross' Stat. Ill.
c. 24, ยง 24; 1 Adams & Durham's Real Estate Stat. & Decisions of Ill. 175.
Did Christina Lynn, within the meaning of that statute,
"join with her husband in the execution" of the deed of 1856
The plaintiff contends that she did not, because the name of
the husband is not expiessly designated in the body of the
deed as a grantor. It is argued that as William Lynn, the
husband, had during coverture a freehold interest jointly with
his wife in her estate of inheritance, with absolute ownership
of the rents and profits of the wife, the requirement in the act
of 184,7. that she should join him in the execution of -any deed
for real estate, was a recognition of his supremacy and right
of coutiol, and necessarily implied that he, as grantor, so

OCTOBER TERM, 1886,
Opinion of the Court.

named in the granting or operating clauses, must pass whatever interest he had, and -thereby, also, express his willingness
that the wife should convey her title or estate. While this
position is sustained by some adjudications, it is ,necessary to
inquire as to the state of the local law; for the rights of the
parties must be governed by the requirements of that law in
respect to the mode in which real property situated within the
limits of that state may be conveyed or transferred. United
States v. Crosby, 7 Cranch, 115; Clark v. Graham, 6 Wheat.
577; .fc6ormick,v. Sullivant, 10 Wheat. 192, 202; Suydam
v. Williamson, 24: low. 427, 433; Brine v. Tms. Co., 97 U. S.
627.
In Johnson v. Mtontgomery, 51 Ill. 185, the question was
whether dower was barred by a deed executed in 1853, in
Ohio, conveying lands in Illinois belonging to the husband,
the wife signing the deed and duly acknowledging it before a
proper officer. But the wife was not named in the body of
the deed, nor was her right of dower referred to therein in
any way. It is true, as suggested by counsel for the plaintiff
in error, that an inchoate right of dower is not a pesent
estate in lands, and that the court in that case .expressly
waived any decision of the question whether the deed then
before it would have been good under the act of 1847, and
placed its decision entirely upon the 21st section oi the statute
of conveyances o 1845. That section provides that it shall be
lawful "for any married woman to release her right of dower
of, in, and to any lands and tenements whereof her husband
may be possessed or seized, by any legal or equitable title
during her coverture, by joining such husband in the deed or
conveyance for the conveying of such lands and tenements,
and appearing and acknowledging the same, &c.,
which [certificate bf privy examination] being recorded, together with the deed, duly executed and acknowledged by the
husband according to law, shall be sufficient to discharge and
bar the claim of such woman to dower in the lands and. tenements conveyed by such deed or conveyance." 1 Adams &
Durham, 133; lev. Stat. Ill., 1845, 107. The court, after
observing that the deed merely extinguished the wife's con-

SCHLEY v. PULLMAN CAR COMPANY.

581

Opinion of the Court.

tingent right of dower, and did. not pass any estate she had
in the land, said: "This precise question has not hitherto been
presented, but we entertain no doubt it has ahvays been supposed by both the people and the profession in this state that
a married we/nan, signing her husband's deed, and being
properly examined before an officer, and causing his certificate
of that fact to be placed upon the deed, would bar her dower
in the premises conveyed, although her name nowhere appeared in the body of the, deed. By signing the deed she
'joins' in it, and having done this, her dower is barred if
she takes the other- steps pointed out by the statute," p. 191.
This decision bears somewhat on the question as to what the
local statutes mean when they require the wife to join with
the husband in a conveyance of real estate.
In .Xiller v. S acw, 103 Ill. 277, 291, one of the questions
was whether a certain conveyance by a married woman, living
in Illinois with her husband, passed the title to her separate
real property situated in that state, the husband not joining
with her in the granting clause of the deed. The statute in,
force when the deed was made prescribed the mode in which
the husband and wife, residing in Illinois, 'ould convey the
real estate of the wife. Act of 1845, ยง17,p. 106; 1 Adams &
Durham, 127, 128. It made it lawful for the husband and vife
to "execute" any grant, lease, deed, or conveyance of such
estate. The court aid: "That which this statute requires to
be done to enable the wife to convey her separate property
is, that she and her husband shall execute the deed, and after
that she shall appear before a proper officer and acknowledge
the same in the mode pointed out in the statute; and such
deed being acknowledged or proved according to law by the
husband, it will be as effectual to pass the title to the wife's
separate property as the deed of an unmarried woman would
be to convey her property. All this was done in this case.
Both Mrs. Sheldon and her husband executed the deed to
Ward, and afterwards she appeared before a proper officer
and acknowledged it in conformity with the statute; and the
acknowledgment of her husband to the deed being according
to law, that seems to be all the 'law requires to be done to

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

make the deed effectual to pass the title to the wife's separate
estate."
The latest case to which our attention has been called is.
Yocum v. .Lovell, 111 Ill. 212., By a statute of Illinois every
householder is declared to be entitled "to an estate of homestead," to a specified amount, in the farm or lot of land, and
buildings thereon, owned or rightly possessed, by lease or
otherwise, and acquired by him or her as a residence; such
homestead and- all right and title therein being exempted
from attachment, judgment, levy, execution, or sale for the
payment of his debts or other purposes, and from the laws of
.conveyance, descent and devise, as provided in that statute.
The exemption continues after the death of the householder
for the benefit of the surviving husband or wife, so long as he
or she occupies such homestead, and of the children until the
youngest child become twenty-one years of age. The statute,
also, provides, that "no release, waiver or conveyance of the
estate so exempted shall be.valid, unless the same is in writing,
subscribed by said householder and his or her wife or husband,
if he or she have one, and acknowledged in the same manner
as conveyances of real estate are required-to be acknpwledged,
or possession is abandoned or given pursuant to the conveyance; or, if the exemption is continued to child or children,
without the order of the court directing.a release thereof."
Rev. Stat. Ill., 1874, p. 497. In the case last cited, the question
was whether a trust deed expressly relin~iuishing the homestead right, was effectual .for that purpose, the name of the
wife not appearing in the granting clause of the deed, though
it was signed and duly acknowledged by herself and husband
in conformity with the statute. - The court held the deed to be
sufficient to pass the interest of both husband and wife in the
estate of the homestead - observing, that the statute did not
require the name of the husband or wife to appear in the body
of the deed. Referring, to Artl/er v. Shaw, as presenting an
analogous question, the court said: "In the case now being
considered the wife joins with her husband in the release of
homestead in precisely the same manner as the husband did
with the wife in the case cited," p. 218.

SCHLEY v. PULLMAN CAR, COMPANY.
Opinion of th0 Court.

While those cases do not cover the precise question under
considcration, we are of opinion that under the principles
announced in them, the deed of May 26, 1856, must be upheld
as a valid transfer under the law of Illinois of the interest of
Christina Lynn and her husband. If, as adjudged by the
Supreme Court of the state, the wife, whose name did not
appear in the operative clause of the husband's conveyance of
his lands, is to be held as having joined him therein and surrendered her right of dower, by simply signing the deed and
acknowledging it in conformity with the statute, and upon
privy examination duly certified; if, under a statute making
it lawful for husband and wife "to execute" a conveyance of
her real estate, they will both be held to have executed a conveyance of her separate property where her name appears,
but that of the husband does not appear, in the granting
clause of the deed, but they both sign and acknowledge it in
the mode required by law; and if the wife's "estate of homestead" can be conveyed by a deed, signed and duly acknowledged by herself and husband, her name, however, not appearing in the body of the deed; it would seem to follow that,
within the meaning of the act of 1847, and according to the
tendency' of the decisions of the Supreme Court of the state,
the wife joins with her husband in the execution of a conveyance of her estate of inheritance where her name alone appears
in the granting clause, but th6 deed is signed by both hersel
and husband, is acknowledged by both, and is certified as
required by law. Such conveyance, so signed, acknowledged,
and certified, of the wife's land, seems to be as effectual, under
the local law, to invest the grantee with the title and interest
of both husband and wife as if his name had also appeared in
the granting clause.
If, as suggested, the purpose of the act of 1847 in requiring
the wife to join the husband in the execution of conveyances
of her real estate was to protect her against strangers and
secure his coperation and counsel, that object was as fully
accomplished by his signing and aclknowledging the deed with
her as it would have b~en by designating him in the body of
the deed as co-grantor with the wife.

"584

OCTOBER TERMI,

1886.

Opinion of the Pourt.

It is proper to. say that the question under consideration is
not free from difficulty, and we s1old have been glad to be
guided in our determination of it by an express decision of
the highest court of the state. The conclusion reached by us
is more in harmony with what that 'court has held in cases
somewhat analogois than would be a decision adjudging the
deed of 1856 to be void.
One other question remains to be considered. It is contended that the certificate of aclmowledgment is fatally
defective for two reasons: 1st. It does not appear that Mrs.
Lynn was 'personally known to the magistrate, or that she
was proved by a credible witness to be the same person as the
one who subscribed to the deed; 2d. It does not appear that
she was informed of the contents of the deed.
'In support of these objections, the counsel for the plaintiff in
error relies upon the 20th section of the chapter on "Conveyances" in the Revised Statutes of .1845, p. 107. That section
provides: "No judge or other officer skiall take the acknowledgment of any person to an deed or instrument of writing
as aforesaid, unless the person offering to make such acknowl'.edgment shall be personally known to him to be the real
person who, and in whose name su h acknowledguent is
proposed to be.made, or shall be proved to be such by a credible witness, and the judge or officer taking such acknowledgment shall, in his certificate'thereof, state that sach person
was personally known to him to be the pelson whose name is
subscribed to such deed or writing, as having executed the
same, or that he was proved to be such by a crecible-witness
(naming him)," &c. That chapter was amended by the act of
February 11, 1853, the first section of which provides: "That
no deed, mortgage, or other instrument of writing, heretofore
executed, or hereafter to be executed, by husband and wife, in
good faith, for the purpose of conveying or incumbering the
estate of the husband, or the estate of the wife, or the right of
dower iin any lands situate in this state, and acknowledged
'by them before 'any officer authorized by the laws of this
state to take acknowledgments, shall be deemed, held, or
adjudged invalid, or defective or insufficient in law, by reason

SCHLEY "v. PULLMAN CAR COMPANY.
Opinion of the Court.

of any informality or omission in 'etting forth the particulars
of the-acknowledgment, before such officer as aforesaid, in the
ceriificate thereof: P'ovided, however, That it appears in substance, from such certificate, that the parties executing said
deed, mortgage, or other instrument of writing, executed the
same freely and voluntarily; and that in case of married
women executing the same, it appear in substance, that they
knew the contents of .said deeds, mortgages, or other instruments of writing, and that they were examined by the officer
aforesaid, separate -nd.apaxt from their husbands. 1 Adams
& Durham, 185.
It was said in Lnbdley v. Smith, 46 l. 523, 52Z, 'that the
requirement that the certificate should show that the person
acknowledging it was personally known to the officer to be
the p*erson whose name is subscribed to the deed, or was
proved to be such, by a credible witness, was one of substance
and salutary in its operation, and was not dispensed with by the
act of 1853; and that "it is the acknowledgment of the fene
covert which is the operative act to pass her title." See also
.Xurphy v. 'Williarison,85M. 149, 152. Assuming this t6 have
been the settled law of Illinois when the deed in question was
executed, and that the case, on this point, is governed by the
Revised Statutes of 1845,. the result claimed by the plaintiff-in
error does not follow. The cases cited do not sustain the
objection to the certificate of acknowledgment. In Iindlky
v. Smith -one of the- cases relied upon by the plaintiff in
error -there was n6 language in the certificate of the wife's
acknowledgment from which it could be inferred that she was
either personally known to him, or was proved by awitness to'
be the person who had as wife signed the deed. To the same
class belong the cases of Heinrich v. Simpwson, 66 Ill. 51, and
Coburn v. Herrington,114 Ill. 104, 107. The officer's certificate in this case states that "personally came Christina Lynn
and William Lynn, her husband, known to me to be the persons who executed the foregoing instrument, and acknowIedged the same to be their free 'act and deed." This is, in
substance, a statement that they came before the officer and
were personally known to him to be the real persons who in
fact subscribed and acknowledged the deed.

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Syllabus.

The objection that the officer's certificate does not state
that she was informed of the contents of the deed - if it 'have
any force whatever under the statute of 1847, permitting the
non.-resident Jeme covert to acknowledge her deeds as if she
weie unmarried- is not well taken. The certificate shows
that she executed the deed freely and without force or compulsioi from the husband or from any one 'else, "fully understanding the contents" thereof. Besides, this defect, if it be
one, is of the kind that was cured by the act of 1853, which
only required it to appear, in substance, as it does 'here, that
the deed was executed freely and voluntarily, and, in the case
of "a married woman, that she knew its contents and was
examined separately and apart from her husband. She must
have known, if, as certified, she fully understood the contents
of ihe deed.
The judgment below was right, and is
A ffrmed.

GIIMER v. STONE.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE VTITED

STATES

FOR

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
Submitted December 20, 1886.-Decided March 7, 188T.

A, a resident in Irish Grove, Illinois, died there, leaving a will by which,
after bequeathing his library to the Presbyterian church of Irish Grove,
and $500 for, the erection of another Presbyterian church in Illinois, and
50 to be paid on the minister's salary of the Presbyterian church of
Irish Grove for 1884, and some other bequests, he bequeathed and devised
the remaindeeS'of his estate "to be equally divided between the board of
foreign and tlhe board of home missions." The Presbyterian Church in the
United States of America has a corporate "Board of Foreign "Missions"
and a corporate "Board of Home Missions;" but it was agreed by counsel
that several other religious bodies in the United States have similar organizations, for the same purposes. Held, that there was a latent ambiguity
in the will respecting the object of the residuary gift, which ambiguity
could be removed by extrinsic evidence; and that the evidence introduced on that Ipoint, taken in connection with the other bequests in the
will for the benefit of Presbyterian churches, showed that the testator,

