EVERHART v. HUNTSVILLE COLLEGE.
Opinion of the Court.

EVERHART v. HUNTSVILLE COLLEGE.
CLAY v. HUNTSVILLE COLLEGE.
APPEAL

FROM1 FHE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ALAMA
AA.
Argued January 20, 1887. -Decided

January 31,1887.

An averment that the complainant in a bill of equity "resides" in a state
is not an averment that he is a citizen of the state, so as to give a Circuit
Court of the United States jurisdiction over the subject-matter by reason
of citizenship of the parties.
When the jurisdiction of a Circuit Court depends upon the, citizenship of
the parties, and that court takes jurisdiction and rendersjudgment, and
the record in this court in error or on appeal fails to show the requisite
citizenship, the judgment will be reversed and the case remanded by
this court on its own motion, and the party in default adjudged to pay
costs here.
THESE two 'causes.were argued and submitted together.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.

.r. Xfilton, Humes for appellant Tverhart.
*il&. Sarmuel F. Rice for appellant Clay.
.Mr. Jo n D. -Brandon for appellees. .Y. D. D. Selby
and .rA. L. P. Walker, also for appellees, submitted on their
brief.
M

. CHnF JusTicE WArr

delivered the opinion of the

court.
These are appeals from a decree dismissing the original bill
and a cross-bill in a suit begun in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Northern IDistrict of. Alabama, by
George M. Everhart against the Huntsville Female Academy,
George W. F. Price, Martha T. Rison, Myra J. Erwin, Robert
.M. Erwin, William H. Erwin, Joseph B. Erwin, and Marcus
A. Etwin, and in which Hugh L. Clay, as administrator do
bonis non, of Abraham R. Erwin, deceased, was afterwards

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

added as a defendant, but on looking into the record we find
no sufficient evidence of the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court,
which depend§ alone on the citizenship of the parties. It is
.stated in the original bill that Everhart is a resident of Wisconsin, and the same fact is also shown by the testimony, but
this, as it has often been held, is not enough. An averment
of residence is not the equivalent of an averment of citizenship
for the purposes of jurisdiction in the courts of the United
States. According to the pleadings the Huntsville Female
Academy is .an Alabama corporation, and the other defendants are residents of either Alabama or Tennessee. The decree
dismissing both the original and cross-bills is reversed, because
tbe record fails to show the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court,
but as the fault rests alone* on Everhart, the complainant in
the original bill, whose duty it was to put on record the facts
necessary to show the jurisdiction, the reversal will be at his
costs in this court. This whole subject has ah'eady been considered twice during the present term; once in Continental Ins.
Co. v. ?Iioad8, 119 U. S. 237, and again in Peper v. l'orcdyce,
119 U. S. 469. The reasons for our judgment sufficiently appear
in the opinions delivered in those cases. If on the return of the
case to the Circuit Court it is made to appear that the citizenship necessary for the jurisdiction existediat the time the suit
was brought, it will be for that court to determine whether an
amendment of the pleadings ought to be allowed, so as to
cure the present defects.
The decree of the 0, rcuit Court is reversed, at the costs of
the appellantEveraiart,and the cause remandedforfurther
nroceedings not inconsistent with this o'nion.

