OCTOBER TERM; 1886.

502

Syllabus.

privilege of exemption from taxation which the local merchant
would not have unless in some form he could be subjected to
taxation for what he did in the locality. The same-would be
true in respect to all inhabitants of the state who were sellers
by sample in this district, but who had no place of business
there. And so they, like citizens of other states, were required to pay for the privilege. Thus all were treated alike,
whether they were citizens of Tennessee or of some other
state, and under these circumstances I can see no constitutional objection to such a taxation of citizens of the other
states for their business in the district..
I have -treated the case as a conviction of a "drummer" for
.selling goods by sample. That is what. Robbins was found
guilty of, and that is what this statute makes an offence. The
license is only required of "drummers and all persons not having a licensed house of business in the Taxing District, offering
for sale or selling"goods, wares, or merchandise therein by sample.". The Supreie Court of Tennessee decided that this
means nothing more than that any person who sells by sample shall pay the tax, and to that I agree. It will be time
enough to consider whether a non-resident can be taxed for
merely soliciting orders without having samples when such a
case arises.. That is not this case.

MR.

TUSTIcE

FIELD and AIR. JusnTit GRAY concur in this

dissent.

CORSON v-.MARYLAND.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF MARYLAND.
Argued A ril 5, 1886. -Reargued November 5, 1886.-Decided March 7,1887.

The Code of Maryland provided that "no person or corporation other than
the grower, maker, or manufacturer, shall barter -or sell, or otherwise
dispose of, or shall offer for sale any goods, chattels, wares, or merchandise within the state, without first obtaining a-license in the manner
herein prescribed;" that the application for the license should state on
oath "the amount of said applicant's stock of goods, wares, and mer-

CORSON 'v. MARYLAND.
Statement of Facts.
chandise generally kept on hand by him, or the concern in which he is
engaged, at the principal season of-sale; or if said applicant shall not
have previbusly engaged in such trade or business, the amount of such
stock he expects to keep as aforesaid;" and it graduated the rate to be
paid for the license according to the sworn statement of the applicant's
stock in trade, at the principal season of sale, ranging from $15 to $150.
A, a citizen and resident of New York, wa4 indicted under this statite
for offering to sell by sample in Baltimore, without first obtaining a
lcense, goods for a New York firm, to be shipped by them directly to the
purchaser in Baltimore. Held, that these enactments in the Code, as
applied to A, violated that provision of the Constitution of the United
States which grants to Congress the power to make regulations of
commerce among the states.
Robbins v. Shelby County Tazing District,ante, 489, affirmed and applied. to
,this case.

TmE provisions of the Code of Maryland as amended in
1880, which were questioned in this case, were as follows:
ARTICLE 12, Sec. 4-1,.provided that," no person or corporation
other than the grower, maker, or manufacturer shall barter or
sell, or otherwise dispose of, or shall offer for sale, any goods,
chattels, wares, or merchandise within this state, without first
obtaining'a license in the manner herein prescribed." (Then
followed certain exceptions not necessary to be here enumerated.)
when any person, body politic or corSee. 42 provided that ",
porate, shall propose to sell or barter or dispose of or to offer
for sale anything mentionea in the preceding section, except
spirituous or fermented liquors, he shall apply to the clerk
of the Circuit Court of the county in which he proposes to
carry on such selling or bartering., or disposing of goods, wares,
chattels, or merchandise, or if he propose to carry on such
sellllig or bartering, or disposing of goods, wares, chattels, or
merchandise in the city of Baltimore, -to the clerk of the Court
of Common Pleas, for a license therefor." (Then followed
certain provisions not necessary to be here stated.)
See. 43 provided that "upon such application the applicant
.
the amount of said
shall state to the clerk, on oath,
applicant's stock of goods, wares, and merchandise generally
kept on hand by him, or the concern in which he is engaged,
at the principal seasons of sale; or if said applicant shall not

OCTOBER TERMI, 1886.
Statement of Facts.

have previously engaged in such trade or business, the amount
of such stock he expects to keep as aforesaid."
Sees. 44 to 55, inclusive, prescribed the rate or sum to be paid
for such license, graduated according to tle sworn statement
of the applicant's stock in trade, at the 'principal season of
sale; ranging from $15 if the stock exceeded $1000 and was
not more than $1500, to $150 if the stock exceeded $40,000.
See. 56, as amended, provide l that "if the applicant for a
license lives out of the country or' city wherein he proposes to'
carry on such business of selling, bartering, or otherwise disposing:of, or offering for-sale such goods, fhattels, wares, and
merchandise; or if the applicant lives out of this 9tate, or
is unable to apply in person by,reason of sickness or bodily
infirmity, his or her agent may apply for license and make the
affidavit as, hereinbefore provided."
The plaintiff in error was indicted for selling by sample to
one Kenney, in Baltimore, without -first taking out a license
therefor as required by the Code.
It was alleged in the indictment that the defendant below'
was a citizen and resident of the city and State of New York;
that the thirty packages of tea so sold were the property of
the firm of Rosewell, Skeel & Co., residents and citizens of
the city and State of New York, and were stored in the warehouse of said firm in the city of New York; that neither he,
the defendant, nor said Rosewell, Skeel & Co., had any store
or place of business, temporary or permanent, or any stock in
trade other than samples of tea in the' State of Maryland, and
neither the defendant nor the said IRosewell, Skeel & Co.,
being the growers, makers, or manufacturers of said thirty,
packages of tea.
The i'idictment further charged that neither the defendant
nor the said Rosewell, Skeel '& Co. intended to keep any stock
in.the city of Baltimore, or to be engaged in any trade or businiss in said city or state, otherwise than by selling by samples
as aforesaid; that neither had any principal season of salb in
said city or state, but that Rosewell, Skeel & Co. had their
only place of business in the city of New York, where their
stock in trade was and had since been kept, and Where their

CORSON v. MARYLAND.
Opinion of the Court.

goods, on being sold, were then and since had been shipped
directly to purchasers in the State of Maryland and other parts
of the United States.
The defendant demurred to the indictment; his demurrer,
was overruled, and having waived his right to plead over,
judgment was entered against,-him. Thig judgmeiit was
affirmed by the.Court of Appeals of Maryland (57 Maryland,
251). The defendant thereupon sued out this writ of error.
The cause was argued at last term, on the 20th May, 1886.
A reargument was ordered, and the cause was accordingly
argued at this term.
-Y. S. Teakle Wallis and-Xr. Henry ). Loney for plaintiff
in error at October term, 1885. .Y. Wallis for same at October term, 1886.
• Ak. Charles B. Roberts, Attorney General of Maryland, and
.M. Charles J. Z Gwinn, for defendant in error siibmitted
on their brief at each hearing.
Mv. JusTcE B ADn.nLdelivered the opinion of the

court.

This case does not differ materially from thaf of Robbins v.
Taxing .Districtof Shwlby County, just decided. The Code of
Maryland, as amended in 1880, provides that "no person or
corporation other than the grower, maker, or manufacturer
shall barter or sell, or otherwise dispose of, or shall offer for
sale any goods, chattels, wares, or merchandise within this
state, without first obtaining a license in the manner herein
prescribed." A violation of this law was made an indictable
offence; and the plaintiff in error, a citizen and resident of
New York, wag indicted for offering to sell, and for selling by
sample, in the city of Baltimore, without license, certain goods
for a New York firm, to be shipped from New York directly
to the purchaser. The plaintiff in error demurred to the indictment, but it was sustained both by the court of original
jurisdiction and by the Court of Appeals of Maryland on writ
of error. The constitutionality of the law was duly raised,
and the law was sustained.

OCTOBER TERMN£,

18.86.

Statement of Facts.

The same principles apply to this case which were considered in that of Robbins, and the same result must be declared.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals of Maryland is reversed, and the plaintiff in error must be discharged.
M

. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE

concurring.

MR.JuSricE FIELD, Mnz. JUsTI E GRAY, and myself agree to
this judgment, but on different grounds from those stated in
the opinion of the court, It is not denied that the statute of
Maryland requires a non-resident merchant desiring to sell by
sample in that state, to pay for a license to do that business a
sum to be ascertained by the amount of his stock in trade in
the state where he resides, and in! which he has his principal
place of business. This differs materially from the statute of
Tennessee, which was considered in -Robbinsv. Tax)ing District of S7elby County, just decided, and is in its effect, as we
think, a tax on commerce among the states. The charge for
the privilege to the non-resident is measured by his capacity
for doing business all over the United States, and without any
reference to the amount done or to be done in Maryland.

SCHULER v. ISRAEL.
ERRoR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF MSSOURI.
Submitted January 10, 1887.-Decided March 7, 1887.

judgment recovered in one court may be pleaded as a defence- to a suit
on the same cause of action pending in - another when by law the cause
of action is merged in the judgment.
A garnishee has a right to set up any defence against the attachment process which he could have done against the debtor in the principal action;
6nd if the debtor be insolvent, and owes the garnishee on a note not due
for which he has no sufficient security, he is not bound to risk the loss
of his debt in answer to the garnishee process.

THIs was an action at law, in the nature of assumpsit, commenced in a state court against defendant in error and a gar-

