PHCENIX LIFE INS. CO. v. RADDIN.
Syllabus.

United States v. Pugh, 99 IT. S. 265, 269; Hahn v. United
States, 107 U. S. 402, 406; and Five _ber cent. Cases, 110 U. S.
471, 485. In the case of Brown v.: United States, 113 U. S.
568, the same doctrine was applied, the cases in this court on
the subject being collected, and it being said, that a "contemporaneous -and uniform interpretation" by executive officers charged with the duty of acting under a statute "is
entitled if weight" 51n its construction, "and in, a case of
doubt ought to turn the scale." A still more recent case on
the subject is United Statev v. Plilbridk, ante, 52, where
this language is used: "A contemporaneous construction by
the officers upon whom was imposed the duty of 'executing
those statutes is entitled to great weight; and since it, is not
clear that that construction was erroneous, it ought not now
to be overturned."
Judgment afjirmed.

PII(ENTIX LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY v. RADDIN.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THF#
DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.
Argued December 20, 21,1886.-Decided January 31, 1887.
Answers to questions propounded by insurers in an application for lifU insurance, unless they are clearly shown by the form of the contract to
have been intended by both parties to be warranties, to be strictly complied with, are to be construed as representations, as to which substantial truth in everything material to the risk is all that is required of the
applicant.
Where upon the face of an application for life insurance, a direct question
of the insurers appears to be not answered at all, or to be imperfectly
answered, the issue of the policy without furthe' inquiry is a 'waiver of
the want or imperfection of the answer, and renders the omission to
answer more fully immaterial.
A policy of life insurance stated that it was issued and accepted by the assured upon certain express conditions, one of which was that "if any of
the declarations or statements made in the application for this policy,
upon the faith of which this policy is issued, shall be found in any respect
untrue, this policy shall be null and void." The application contained a

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.
number of printed questions "to be answered by the person whose life
is proposed to be insured," and "declared that the above are fair and
true answers to the foregoing questions," and that it was agreed by the
applicant "that this application shall form the basis of the contract for
insurance," "and that any untrue or fraudulent answers, or any suppression of facts," should avoid the policy. One of those questions was: "Has
any application been made to this or any other company for assurance
on the life of the party ? If so, with what result ? What amounts are
now-assured on the life of the party, and in what companies?" To this
10 ,0 0 0
, Lquitable Life Assurance
question the applicant answered, "
Society." A policy of that society was in fact the only other existing
insurance. Held, that the answers were not warranties, but representations; and that the issue of a policy, without further inquiry, was a
waiver of the right of the insurers to require further answers as to the
particulars mentioned in this question, and estopped them to set up that
the omission, though intentional, to disclose unsuccessful applications
for additional insurance was material and avoided the policy.
A bill of exceptions should not contain the whole charge of the court to
the jury, but should only state distinctly the several matters of law excepted to.
A bill of exceptions cannot be sustained to an instruction or to a refusal to
instruct in matter of law, without showing that there was evidence to
which the instruction given or refused was applicable.
The acceptance by insurers of payment of a premium, after they know that
there has been a breach of a condition of the policy, is a waiver of the
right to avoid the policy for that breach.
Where the declaration in an action on a policy of insurance alleges that the
consideration of the contract was the payment of a certain premium at
once, and of future annual premiums, and the policy giveu'in evidence is
expressed to be made "in consideration of the representations made in
the application for this policy" and of the sums paid, and to be paid for
premiums, and the application contains no promise or agreement of the
assured, there is no variance..

THis was an action at law to recover upon a pulicy of life
insunnce issued by the plaintiff in error. Verdict for the
p.laintiff below, and judgment on the verdict. The defendant
below sued out this writ of error. The case is stated in the
opiftion of the court.

Yrt. F. Dickinson, J'., for plaintiff in error, cited: TFoodruff v. ]fentworth, 133 Mass. 309 ; Stone v. Thite, S Gray , 569 ;
Piree v. O,4arter Oak Tnsurance Cb., 138 M ass. 151; Sultz
v. Xfutual ife insurance Co., 6 Fed. Rep. 672; Ca-zenove v.
British Assu rance Co., 6 C. B. N. S. 437; S. C. on appeal,

PHCENIX LIFE INS. CO. v. RAIDN.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

29 Law Journal, IN. S. (c. P.) 160; Wfright v. Equitable Lift
Assurawe Co., 50 How. Pr. 367; Thomson v. Teems, 9 App.
Cas. 671; Jc-J ries v. life -Insurance Co., 22 Wall 47; .Etna
L/fe Insurance Co. v. France, 91 U. S. 510; _zsurance Co. v.
Tjrefz, 104 U. S. 197; Carjpenter v. Providence Washingtonm
Insurance Co., 16 Pet. 495; London Assurance Co. v. 1Wansel.
16 Ch. D. 363; .3IcDonald v. Law Union, Insurance Co.,
L. R. 9 Q. B. 328; Edington v. -tna Life Insurance Co.,
77 N. Y. 564; S. C. 100 N. Y. 536; J2ivaz v. Gerussi, 6 Q.
B. D. 222; .JlcLanahan 'v. Universal Insurance Co., 1 Pet.
170; Aew York Iffe Insurance Co. v. Fletcher, 117 U. S. 519;
JJcCoy v. Metropolitan Insurance Co., 133 Mass. 82; Batehelder v. Queen Insurance Co., 135 Mass. 449; Fowkes v. -Jfanchester
London n.surance Co., 3 Fost. & Fin. 440; . C.
3 B. & S. 915; Dilleber v. Home Life Insurance Co., 69 N. Y.
256; Connecticut Life Insurance Co. v. Union Trust Co., 112
U: S. 250; X. . Ylutual life Insurance Co. v. Armstrong,
117 U. S. 591; .3toulor v. Insurance Co., 101 U. S. 708; In
re General Provincial life Assurance Co., 18 Weekly
Reporter, 396; American Insurance Co. v. fahone, 56 Miss.
180; Roehner v. .Knickerbocker Life Insurance Co., 63 N, Y..
160; Railroad Co. v. Dubois, 12 Wall. 47; Taylor v. Ely, 25
Conn. 250; Insurance Co. v. Wol, 95 U. S.- 326; ])evens v.
.lechanice' & Traders' Insurance Co., 83 N. Y, 168; Bennacke
v. Insurance Co., 105 U. S. 355.
'Mr. Robert . .kforse, Jr. (M. Willia
f. Richardson
was with him on the brief), for defendant in error, cited:
Hampshire Bank v. Billings, 17 Pick. 87; Stone v. White, 8
Gray, 589; American Insurance Co. v. .Jfahone, 56 Miss. 180;
Connecticut Insurance Co. v. Luchs, 108 U. S. 498; Liberty
Hall Association v. Housatonic Insurance Co., 7 Gray, 261;
Bardwell v. Conway Insurance Co., 122 Mass. 90; Hail v.
Peoles' Insurance Co., 6 Gray, 185; Lorillard Fire Insurance Co. v. 3fcCulloch, 21 Ohio St. 176; Towne 7v. -Fitchburg
LIsurance Co., 7 Allen, 51; Brennan v. Security Isura'nce
Co., 4 Daly, 296; Fowkes v. .X anchester Insurance Co., 3
Fost. & Fin. 440; Roddson v. Guardianlife Tnsurance Co.,

ISO

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

97 Mass. 144; .Frostv. SaratogaInsurace Co., 5 Denio, 154;
S. C. 49 Am.. Dec. 234; Ames jr. 2ew York Union Insurance
Co., 14 N. .Y. 253; Shoarragn v. 3iagar;a Insurance Co., 46
N. Y. 526; .Bevin V. "Conn. Insurance Co., 23 Conn. 244;
Bouton v. Ameria n -Insurance Co., 25 Conn. 542; Walsh v.
,tna Insurance Co., 30 'Iowa, 133; Insurance Co. v. Blocekbowr,.26 Penn. St. 199; .Yorth Berwick Co. v. NWew England
Fire and Xfar ne Co., 52 Maine, 336; Reynolds v. Commercial
Insurance Co., 47 N. Y. 597; Kennedy v. Green, 3 Mlyl. & K.
699; Viele'v. GermqniaInsurance Co., 26 Iowa, 9; VFon Bories
v. United Insurance Co., 8 Bush, 133; Vestehester Co. v. Earle,
33 Mich. 143; Tilliamsbrg Co. v. Cary, 83 I1l..453; Anson v.
Winnesheils,Co., 23 Iowa, 84; Jewett v. Home insurance Co.,
,29 Iowa, 562; Security Co. v. Fay, 22 IMich. 467; Horwitz v.
Equitable Insurance Co., 40 Missouri, 557; "Pitney v. Glens
Falls Co., 65 N. Y. 6; Pechner v. Ph~enix Insurance Co., 65
N..Y. 195; Hadley v. Fire Ins. Co., 55 XT. H. 10; Fish-eck
v. Phenix Inurance Co., 54 Cal. 422.
Mn_,JuTic. GRAY delivered the opinion of the court.
This Ivas an action brought by Sewell, Raddin, and prosecuted y his administrator, upon a policy of life insurance,
dated April 25, 1872, the material parts of wYhich were as
.
follows:'
"This policy of assurance witnesseth, that the Phcenix Mutual Ife Insurance Company of Hartford, Conn., in consideration of the representations made to them in the application for
this policy, and of the sum of one hundred and fifty-two dollars and ten cents, to them duly paid by.Sewell Raddin, father,
and of the §emi-annual payment of a like amount on or before
the-tWenty-fifth day of April and October in every year during the continuance of this policy, do assure the life of Charles
E. Raddin, of Lynn, in the county of Essex, State of Massachusetts, in the amount of ten thousand dollars, for the term

of his natural life."
"This policy is issud and accepted by the assured upon the
following express conditions'and agreements," namely, -among

PH(ENIX LIFE INS. CO. v.' RADDIN.
Opinion of the Court.

others, that "if any of the declarations or statements made in
theapplication for this policy, upon the faith of which this
policy is issued, shall be found in any respect untrue, this
policy shall be null and void.?'
The application was signed by Sewell Raddin, both for his
son and for himself, ,and contained twenty-nine printed "questions to be answered by the person whose life is proposed to
be insured, and which form the basis of the contract," three
of which, with !he written answers to them, and the concluding paragraph of the application, were as follows:
"10. Is the party addicted to
the habitual use of spirituous
No.
liquors or opium?
"28. Has any application
been made to this or any other
company for assurance on the
life of the party? If so, with
what result? What amounts
$10,000, Equitable Life
are now assured on the life of Assurance Society.
the party, and in what companies? If already assured in this
company, state the No. of policy?
"29. Is the party and, the
applicant aware that any untrue or fraudulent answers to
the above queries, or any sup-'
pression of facts in regard to the
Yes.
health, habits, or circumstances
of the party to be assured, will
'vitiate the policy, and forfeit all
payments thereon?
"It is hereby declared, that the above are fair and -true -an-,
swers to the foregoing questions, and it is aclmowledged and
agreed by the undersigned that this application shall form the
basis of the contract for insurance, which contract shall be
compjeted only by delivery of policy, and that any untrue
or fraudulent answers, any suppression of facts, or should.
the applicant become, as to habits, so far different from

188

-

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

condition now represented to be in, as to make the risk
more than ordinarily hazardous, or neglect to pay the premium on or before the day it becomes due, shall and will
render the policy null and void, and forfeit all' payments
made thereon."
It was admitted at the trial that all premiums were paid as
th6y fell due; that-Charles E.- Raddin died July 18, 1881; and
that at the date of this policy he had an endowment policy in
the Equitable Life Assurance Society for $10,000, which was
afterwards paid to him.
One of the defences relied on at the trial was that the answer to question 28 in the application was untrue, and that
there was a fraudulent suppression of facts material to the in.surance, because the plaintiff, by his answer to that question,
"$10,000, Equitable Life Assurance Society," intended to have
the defendant understand that the only application which had
been made to any other company for assurance -upon the life
of his son was one made to the Equitable Life Assurance Society, upon which that society had issued a policy of $10,000;
whereas in fact the plaintiff, within three weeks before the
application for the policy in suit, had made applications to
that society and to the New York Life Insurance Company
for additional insurance upon the son's lifo, each of which had
been declined.
The defendant offered to prove that the two other applications were made and declined as alleged, and that the'facts as
to the making and the rejection of both those applications
were known to the plaintiff, and intentionally concealed by
him, at the time of his application to the defendant; and upon
these offers of proof asked the court to rule, First, that the
answer to question 28 was untrue, and therefore no recovery
could be had, on this policy; Second, that there was a suppression of facts by the plaintiff, and therefore he 6ould not recover; and Third, "that the answer to question 28 must be
construed to be an answer to all the clauses of that question,
and as such was misleading, and amounted to a concealment
of facts which the defendant was entitled to know and the
plaintiff was bound to communicate."

PHENIX LIFE INS. CO. v. RADDIN.
Opinion of the Court.

But the court excluded all the evidence so offered, declined
to give any of the rulings asked for, and ruled "that if
the answer to one of the interrogatories of question 28 was
true, there .would be no breach of the warranty-; that the
failure to answer the other interrogatories of question 28 was
no breach of the contract; and that if the company took the
defective application, it would be a waiver on their part of the
answers to the other interrogatories of that question."
The jury having returned a verdict for the plaintiff in the
full amount of the policy, the defendant's exceptions to the
refusal to rule.as requested and to tho rulings aforesaid present
the principal question in the case.
The rules of law which govern the decision of this question
are well settled, and the only difficulty is in applying those
rules to the facts before us.
Answers to questions propounded -by the insurers in an application for insurance,, unless they are clearly shown by the
form of the contract to have been intended by both parties to
be warranties, to be strictly and literally complied with, are
t be construed as representations, as to which substantial
truth in everything material to the risk is all that is required
of the applicant. .1oulor v. American As. Co., 111 U. S. 335;
(Otonpbellv. -Yew England Ins. Co., 98 Mass. 381; 2omson v.
"
1
Weeins, 9 App. Cas. 671.
the
assured of any
by
or
concealment
The misrepresentation
But the
policy.
the
avoid
to
insurers
the
material fact entitles
would
that
a
fact
parties may by their contract make material
would
that
otherwise be immaterial, or make immaterial a fact
otherwise be material. Whether there is other insurance on
the same subject, and whether such insurance has been applied
for and refused, are material facts, at least when statements
regarding them are required by the insurers as part of the
basis of the contract. Carpenter v. Providenee ashington
Ine. Co., 16 Pet. 495; Jeries v. .ife Ins. Co., 22 Wall. 47;
Anzderson v. Fitzgerald,4 H. L. Cas. 484; .facdonald v. Law
na Zife
Union Ins. Co., L. R. 9 Q. B. 328; Edingtom v.
12s. Co., 77 N. Y. 564, and 100 N. Y. 536.
Where an answer of the applicant to a direct question of

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

the insurers*purports to be a complete answer to the question,
any substantial misstatenent or omission in the answer avoids
a policy issued on the faith of the application. Cazenove v.
Britih Equitable Assurance Co., 29 Law Journal N. S. (C. P.)
160, affirming ". C. 6 0. B. N. S. 437. But where upon the
face of the application a question appears to be not answered
at all, or to be imperfectly answered, and the insurers issue a
policy without further inquiry, they waive the want or imperfection in the answer, and render .the omission to answer more
fully immaterial. Connecticut Ins. Co. v. Luchs, 108 U. S.
498; ffale v. People's me. Co., 6 Gray, 185; IorillardIns.
Co. v. fcCulloch., 21 Ohio St. 176; American .Ins. Co. v. JAahone, 56 Mississippi, 180; C47-son v. Jersey City Ins. Co., 14
-room, 300,. and 15 Vroom, 210; Lebanon 'Ins. Co. v. JRepler,
106 Penn. St. 28.
The distinction between an answer apparently complete, but
in fact incomplete and therefore untrue, and an answer manifestly incomplete, and as such accepted by the insurers, may
be illustrated by two cases of fire insurance, which are governed by the same rules in this respect as cases of life insurance. If one applying for insurance upon a building against
fire is asked whether the property is inoambered, and for what
amount, and in his answer discloses one mortgage, when in
fact there are two, the policy issued thereon is avoided. Towne
v. Fitcburg Ins. Co., 7 Allen, 51. But if to the same question he merely answers that the property is incumbered, without stating the amount of incumbrances, th6 issue of the policy
without further inquiry is a waiver of the omission to' state
the amount. Hicholk v. Fayette Ins. Co., 1 Allen, 63.
Iii the contract before us, the answers in the application are
nowhere called warranties, or .madepart of the contract. In
the policy those answers and the concluding paragraph of the
application are referred to only as "the dec]arations or statements, upon the faith of which this policy is issued ; ' and in
the concluding paragraph of the application the afilswers are
declared to be "fair and true answers to the foregoing questions," and to "form the basis of the contract for insurance."
They must theriefore be considered, not as warranties which

PH(ENIX LIFE INS. CO. v., RADDIN.
Opinion of the Court.

are part of the contract, but as representations collateral to
the contract, and on which it is based.
The 28th printed question in the application consists of four
successive interrogatories, as follows: "Has any application
been made to this or any other company for assurance on the
life of the party? , If so, With what result? What amoints
are now assured on the life of the party, and in what companies? If ah'eady assured in this company, state the number
of policy." The only answer written opposite this question is
"rl,000, Equitable Life Assurance Society."
The question, being printed in very small type, the answer
is written in a single line midway of the opposite space, evidently in order to prevent the ends of the letters from extending above or below that space; and' its position-with regard
to that space, and to the several interrogatories combined, in
the question, does not appear to us to have any bearing upon
the construction and effect of the answer.
But the four interrogatories grouped together in one question, and all relating to the subject of other insurance, would
"naturallybe understood as all tending to one object, the ascertaining of the amount of. siach insurance. The answer in its
form is responsive, not to the first and second interrogatories,
'but to the third interrogatory only, and fully and truly answers that inteirogatory by stating the existing amount of
prior insurance and in what company, and thus renders the
fourth interrogatory irrelevant. If the insurers, after. being
thus truly and fully informed of the. amount and the place of
prior insurance, considered it material to know whether any
unsuccessful applications had been made for additional insurance, they should either have repeated the first two interrogatories, or have piit further questions. The legal effect of
issuing a policy upon the answer as it stood was to waive
their right of requiring further answers as to the particulars
mentioned in the 28th question, to determine that it was
immaterial, for the purposes of their contract, Whether any
unsuccessful applicatiQns had been made, and to estop them
to set up the omission to disclose such applications as a ground
for avoiding the policy. The insurers, having thus conclu.

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

sively elected to treat that omission as immaterial, could not
afterwards make it material by proving that it was inteational.
The case of londom Assurance v. Xfansel, 11 Ch. D. 363, on
which the insurers relied at the argument, did not arise on a
question including several interrogatories as to whether another
application had been made, and with what result, and the amount
of existing insurance, and in what company. But the application or proposal contained two §eparate questions; the first,
whether a proposal had been made at any other office, and, if
so, where; the second, whether it was accepted at the ordinary
premium, or at an increased premium, or declined; and contained no third question or interrogatory as to the amount of
existing insurance, and in what company. The single answer
to both questions was, "Insured now in two offices for £16,000
at. ordinary, rates. Policies effected last year." There being
no specific interrogatory as to the amount of existing insurance, that answer could apply only to the question whether a
proposal had been made, or to the question whether it had
been accepted, and at what rates, or declined; and as applied
to either of those questions it was in fact, but not upon its
face, incomplete and therefore untrue. As applied to the first
question, it disclosed only some and not all of the proposals
which had in fact been made; and as applied to the second
question, it disclosed only the proposals which had been accepted, and not those which had been declined; though the
question distinctly embraced both. That case is thus clearly
distinguished in its facts from the case at bar. So much of
the remarks of Sir George Jessel, A. IR., in delivering judgment, as implies that an insurance company is not bound to
look with the greatest attention at the answers of an applicant-to the great number of questions framed by the company
or its agents, and that the intentional omission of' the insuredto answer a question put to hhn is a concealment which will
avoid a policy issued without further inquiry, can hardly be
reconciled with the uniform current of American decisions.
For these reasons, our conclusion upon this branch of the
case is that there was no error, of which the company had a

PH(ENIX LIFE INS. CO. v. RADDIN.
Opinion of the Court.

right to complain, either in the refusals to rule, or in the rulings made.
Another defence relied on at the trial was that after the issue
of the policy Charles E. Raddin became, as to habits of using
spirituous liquors, so far different from the, condition he was
represented to be in at the time of the application, as to make
the risk more than ordinarily hazardous, and thus to render
the policy null and void.
The bill of exceptions, fter showing that in support of this
defence the defendant introduced evidence, which it is now
unnecessary to state, because the exception to its admission
was abandoned at the argument, contains this statement: -"In
rebuttal of the foregoing defence of change of habits on the
part of the assured after the issuing of the policy, -the plaintiff
not only denied.the fact, but offered evidence tending to show
that the defendant was informed of such change in habits
prior to its receipt of the last premium, and that it gave no
notice to Sewell Raddin of its intention to cancel the policy.
Evidence to the contrary was introduced by the defendant;
and the questions of change of habits, knowledge thereof by
the company, notice to Sewell Raddin, receipt of premium
after knowledge, and waiver, were all submitted to the jury."
The whole charge to the jury is made part, of the bill of
exceptions, in accordance with a practice which this court for
more than half a century has emphatically condemned, and
has by repeated decisions as well as by express rule, constantly
endeavored to suppress. As long ago as 1822, Mr. Justice
Story, speaking for the whole court, said: "The charge is
spread in extenso upon the record, a practice which is unnecessary and inconvenient, and may give rise to minute criticisms
and observations upon points incidentally introduced, for purposes of argument or illustration, and by no means essential to
the merifs of the case." Evans v. .Batoa, 7 Wheat. 356, 426,
4127. Opinions to the same effect have been delivered in many
later cases. Carver v. JaecZson, 4 Pet. 1, 80, 81;
parte Crcane,
5 Pet. 190; Conardv. Paoiflc Ins. Co., 6 Pet. 262, 280; Hag• iae v. Thompson, 7 ,Pet. 348, 390; Gregg v. .ayre, 8 Pet. 244,
251 ; Stimpsoa v. Vest Chester-Co. 3 How. 553 ; Zeller v. EckVOL. cxx-13

OCTOBER TER-1,. 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

e~rt, 4 How. 289, 297 ; Unite States v. Rinds]qpf, 105 U.. S.
418. And in 1832. this court adopted a rule, which, with slight
verbal changes, has ever since remained in force, by which it
-was ordered, not only that the judges of the Circuit and District Courts should not allow any bill of exceptions containing.
the charge of the court at large to the jury in trials at common
law, upon any ground of exception to the whole of such charge;
but also, "that the party excepting be required to state distinctly the several matters of law in such charge to which he
excepts; and that such matters of law, and those only, be
inserted in the bill of exceptions, and allowed by the court."
Rule 88 of 1832, 6 Pet. iv and 1 How. xxxiv; Rule 4 of 1858
and 1884, 21 How. vi and 108 'U. S. 574.
The disregard of this rule has caused the principal embarrassment in dealing with the question now under consideration.
The substance of the instructions to the jury on this part of
the case was as follows: Th judge, directed the jury that if
they should find that the assured was addicted to the habitual
use of spirituous liquors at the date of the policy, or his habits
afterwards changed in this respect so as to make the risk more
than ordinarily hazardous, they would consider whether there
had been a waiver on the part of the insurance company. The
judge then told the jury that the plaintiff not only cldimed that
any misrepresentation as to the habits of--theassured, or failure
to inform the company of a change in those habits;-had -been
waived .by the compa4i-by acceptig tAyment-of - a premium
on or about April 25, 1881, after it had tnoWiedfge of the habits
of the assured, or of the change in those habits; but furthbr
claimed that mere silence of the company, after knowledge of
such change in habits, was a waiver of the violation of the
provision of the policy. And the judge did charge the jury
upon both the supposed grounds of waiver, instructing them
that if the defendant had knowledge of the -change in-the
habits of the assured before receiving the premium of April
25, 1881, the acceptance of that premium would be a waiver,
which would estop the company to set up that the policy was
forfeited for a breach of that provision; and further instructing
them that if the company, having knowledge of the change in

IH(ENIX LIFE INS.

CO. v. RADDIN.

.Opinion of the Court.

the habits of the assured, did not give notice to the plaintiff of
that change, and he was prejudiced in any way by the failure
of the company to give such a notice, and by reason of this
silence of the company did any act, or omitted to do any act,
which prejudiced him, there was a like waiver and estoppel on
the part of the company.
The bill of exceptions, after setting out the charge of the
court, proceeds as follows: "To so much of the foregoing
iustructions as related to notice and waiver the defendant
excepted, and asked the court to in~truct the jury-I.' That
no notice of the cancellation of the policv or termination of
the risk was necessary, if the jury find the fact to be that the
habits of the assured had so far changed from the condition
represented to be in as to make the risk more than ordinarily
hazardous. 2. That even if any notice were necessary at all,
under any circumstances, until the company had c6mpletekd its
investigations, if the company acted in good faith and with reasonable despitch, they were not bound to give the notice ; hlso
that the receipt of the last premium, April 25, 1881, pending
such investigations, would" not amount to a waiver, especially
if a much larger sum was tendered back when full knowledge
was had'by the company. The court refused these requests,
and the defendant excepted thereto."
But the bill of exceptions.does not state what the investigations and the tender were which are mentioned in the second
request for instructions, or at what time or for what purpose
either was made; nor does it show that any evidence had been
introduced of prejudice to the plaintiff in consequence of the
defendant's silence, or any other evidence upon-the question
of waiver, except that already mentioned, namely, that "the
plaintiff .offered evidence tending to show that the defendant
was informed of such change in habits prior to its receipt of
the last premium, and that it gave no notice to Sewell Raddin
of its int6ntion to cancel the policy," and that "evidence to the
contrary was introduced by the defendant."
It does not therefore appear that the instructions requested,
or the instructions given, except so far as they related to the
effect of accepting payment of the last premium with previous

196

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

knowledge of the habits of the assured, had any application
to the case on trial. Except as just mentioned, the bill of ex,ceptions is in the same condition as that of which Mr. Justice
Miller delivering a former judgm'enkof this court, said: "There
is in no part of this bill of exceptions any statement, of the
evidence. There is no statement that any evidence was offered,
or that any was objected to. With the exception of the reference to it in the charge of the court, there is ncthing to show
what was provbd, or what any of the evidence tended to prove.
The prayers for instruction, therefore, may have been hypothetical and wholly unwarranted by any testimony before the
forthington v. itason, 101 U. S. 149, 151.
jury."
It follows that the only question upon the instructions of
the court to the jury, which is open to the defendant on this
bill of exceptions, is whether, if insurers accept payment of a
premium after they know that there has been a breach of
a condition of the policy, their acceptance of the premium is a
waiver of the right to avoid the policy for that breach. Upon
principle and authority, there can be no doubt that it is. To
hold otherwise would be to maintain that the contract of insurance requires good faith ol the assured only, and not of the
insurers, and to permit insurers, knowing all the facts, to continue to receive new benefits 'from the contract while they decline to bear its burdens. Insurance Co. v. Woff, 95 U. S. 326;
Wing v. Harvey, 5 D., A. & G. 265; 7 rost v. Saratoga Ins.
Co., 5 Denio, 151; -. C.49 Am. Dec. 234 ;"Beti v. Connecticut
I-ns. Co., 23 Conn. 244; Insuralnce Co. v. Slockbower, 26 Penn.
Stat. 199; VieZe v. Germania Ins. .Co., 26 Iowa, 9; Ikdsdon
v. GuardianIns. Co., 97 Mass: 144.
The only objection remainiig to be considered is that of
variance between the declaration and the evidence, which is
thus stated in the bill of exceptions: "After the plaintiff had
rested, the defendant asked the court to rule that there was a.
variance between the declaration and the proof, inasmuch as
the declaratlon stated the consideration of the contract to be
the payment of the sum of $152.10 and of an annual premium
of $304.20, while the policy showed the consideration to be
the representations made in the application as well as payment

PH(ENUIX LIFE InS. CO. v. RADDIN.
Opinion of the Court.

of the aforesaid sums of money, and that an amendment t6
the declaration was necessaryr but this the court declined to
rule, to which the defendant excepted."
But the "consideration," in the legal sense of the word, of
a contract is the quid pro quo, that which the party to whom
a promise is made does or agrees to do in exchange for the
promise. In a contract of insurance, the promise of the insurer is to pay a certain amount of money upon certain conditions; and the consideration on the part of the assured is his
payment of the Whole premium at the inception of the contract, or his payment of part then and his agreement to pay
the rest at certain periods while it continues in force. In the
present case, at least, the application is collateral to the contract, and contains no promise or agreement of the assured.
The statements in the application are only representations
upon which the promise of the insurer is based, and conditions
limiting the obligation which he assumes. If they are false,
there is a misrepresentation, or a breach of condition, Which
prevents the obligation of the insurer from ever attaching, or
brings it to an end; but there is no breach of any contract or
promise on the part of the assured, for he has made none. In
short, the statements in this application limit the liability of
the insurer, but they create no liability on the part of the assured. The expression at the beginning of the policy, that the
insurance is made "in consideration of the representations
made in the application for this policy," and of certain sums
paid and to be paid for premiums, does not make those representations part of the cqnsideration, in the technical sense, or.
render it necessary. or proper -to plead them as such:
JAdgrnent affir'rned.

