EX PARTE PARKER,

737

&labus.

tuitous or unforeseen evellt and that under articles 2697 (2667)
and 2699 (2669) of the, Civil Code, construed in the light of'
the other articles that we have cited, and of the priciples bf
the civil law, as eslablished: in Louisiana, the plaintiff was
entitled to have the lease annulled. The decree of the court
be'low dismissing the bill must therefore be reversed; and any
equities of the parties which should affect the form of the
decree may more conveniently be dealt with in that court.
)ecree eversqed, and case remanded to the Circuit Court with
directions to take su hfurther roceedings therein as may
be in conformity with law, and not inconsistent with the

opinirn of this court.

EX PARTE PARKER.
ORIGINAL.
Argued March 7, 1887.-Decided March 21,1887.

A statute of Washin'gton.Territory enacts that "1a part of severAl co-parties
may appeal or prosecute a writ of error; but in such case they must
serve notice thereof upon all the other parties." One of two defendants
in a cause served upon the other written notice, entitled in the cause,'
that'he would, on a day therein named, "Ille a notice of appeal and staybond, and appeal said cause," and added, "You are herewith requested to'
join in said appe!al." The other defendant answered in writing, " I hereby
accept service of the above u6tice," "and decline to join in an appeal in
said cause." Held, that this was an exact and effectual compliance with
the provision of the statute.
A statute of Vashington Territory relating to appeals provides that "in anaction by equitable proceedings, tried upon written testimony, the depositions and all papers which were used as evidence are to be certified up
t in
to the Supreme Court, and shall be so certified, not by transcript,
the original form: but a transcript of a motion, affidavit, or other .per,
when it relates to a collateral matter, shall not be certified unle 6 by
direction of the appellant." In an appeal in equitythe appellant requ -sted
the clerk to "t1ransmit to the Supreme Court all the papers filed in this
VOL. cxx-47

7/38

OCTOBER TERM,' 1886.
Counsel for Parties.

caus6 except subpoenas as bylaw provided." The cause had belen referred
to a refkeree, who had returned with his report and finding, five packages,
numbered 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5, with a certifcate that it was "the evidence writ-,
ten down before me and taken in said action, and that the same, with the
documentar , evidence returned herewith by me into court, constitutes
the evidence submitted to and taken by me in said action." The clerk-of,
the court transmitted these packages to the Supreme Court with a certificate that "the letters, papers, and exhibits'herewit °transmitted and
numbered ...are all the papers, letters, andevidence introduced in said
cause before said referee,, and by him deposited with the clerk of said
court," and further certified -that the transcript on appeal was a "full,
tru6, and correct transcript of so much of the record.., as I am by statute and directions of attorneys in said cause required to transmit to the
Supreme Court." Hfeld, that the certificates showed that the transcript
contained all th6 evidence introduced by the parties on the trial, below,
and that the appeal had been duly taken and perfected.
The writ of mandamus properly lies in cases where the inferior court refusesr
to take jurisdiction where by law it ought so to do, pr where, having obtained jurisdiction in a cause, it refuses to proceed in the due exercise
thereof; but it will not lie to correct alleged error occurring in the exercise )f its judicial discretion while acting within its jurisdiction. In this
case it is ordered that'the writ be issued.

THis was a petition for a writ of mandamus to the Supreme
Court of Washington Territory, directing that court to take
jurisdiction of an appeal of which it had declined to take jurisdiction.
At October Term, 1885,. motion was made for leave to
file the petition. Leave was granted, and a -motion was submitted for a rule to show cause. The rule issued, and, complete returns not having been made before the end of the
term, it was continued. At this term a motion was made
for a peremptory mandamus. .. The. hearing on this motion
was continued from time to time until complete returns were
made, when the cause was argued. The case is stated in the

,opinion of the court.
.Mr. Wfalter IT iSmit for petitioner. .X'. .Joohn f .Witckell
and A&. Alyred G. Isam ; and .Mr.
A. T. Britton, .X:r.A.
B. Browne and _.W.W TV Upton fied briefs for same.
2f. J.
.offecker, J.,
with him on the brief.

opposing.

.Ab'. 7ohn B. Allen was

EX PARTE PARKER.
Opinion of the Court.

IM--?

JUSTICE

LfTrnisws delivered the opinion ,of the court.

This is an application under § 688 of the Revised Statutes'
for a writ of mandamus, directed t6 the Supreme Court'of
Washington Territory, to reinstate an appeal from, a decree of
the District Court of the Territory for the First Judicial District, in a suit in equity wherein Elizabeth Denney, executrix
of the estate of Timothy P. Denney, is plaintiff, and Hollon
Parker and John F. Boyer are defendants. The 'decree in
question was against'each of the defendants severally, and the
appeal was taken by the defendant Hollon Parker. Upon his
petition heretofore filed a rule to show cause has been issued;
to which the Chief Justice and Associate Justices of the Supreme Court of tlie Territory of Washngton, bn behalf of the
court, have made and filed their return. They set,forth.that
at the time the said Hollon Parker sought to Appeal said cause
referred to from said District Court to said Supreme Court of
Washington Territory, the manner of taking such appeal was
defined by § 458 of the Territorial Code, still in force, as
follows:
"SEC. 458. An appeal or writ of error is taken by filing
with the clerk of the court in which the judgment or order of
the court appealed from is entered, a notice, stating the appeal
from the -same, or some specific part thereof, aufd serving a
copy of said notice on the 'adverse party or his attorney.
Every notice of appeal or writ of error must be signed by the
.party taking the same or his .attorney of record, and must
contain the title of the District Court in which the proceedings sought to b3 reviewed were had; the title of the cause as
in the District Court; a particular description of the judgment, decree, or order sought to be reviewed; and in case of
appeal, a particular description of every decision,'ruling, order,
or decree by which the appallant claims to have been aggrieved,
and which he relies upon as grounds for a reversal or modifi
cation of the judgment, order, or decree; and in case of a writ
of error, a particular description of the errors assigned."
The return further sets forth that the defendant, John F.
Boyer, did not join in said appeal as an appellant, nor was he

IOCTOB3ER TERM, 1886.
ODinin of the Couit.

made an appellee therein, as appears by the notice of appeal
which is set out. This notice of appeal is entitled "In .the
District Court of the First Judicial District of the Territory,"
with the title of the cause, and is addressed to Timothy P.
Denney, the plaintiff, James K. Kennedy, W. A. George, John
3. Allen, and T. J. Anders, attorneys for plaintiff, and A.
Reeves Ayres, clerk of the court, giving notice that the said
Iollon Parker in the above entitled action "hereby appeals to
the Supreme Court of Washington Territory from the decree
and judgment therein made and entered in the District Court
of the First Judicial District of Washington Territory, in and
for Walla Walla County, in favor of the plaintiff, Timothy
P. Denney, in: said action, and against the defendants, Elollon
Parker and John F.'Boyer, and from the whole thereof, said
decree and judgment rendered on the 31st day of March, 1882,
against the defendants, Aollon Parker and John F. Boyer."
It is further stated in the return that no notice of appeal
was served on Boyer, nor was service thereof waived by him.
The statute of Washington Territory relative to co-parties on
-appeal is as follows:
"SEC. 454. A part of several co-parties may appeal. or prosecute a writ of error; but in such case they must serve notice
thereof upon all the other co-parties, and file the proof thereof
with the clerk of the Supreme Court."
It is further set forth that § 464 of the Code of Washington
Territory prescribed the only means by which, in a cause appealed to the Supreme Court of the Territory, the evidence
upon which the same was tried could be certified to said
Supreme Court. That section is as follows:
"SEc. 464. In an action by ordinary proceedings, and in an:
action by equitable proceedings, tried fu whole or in part on
oral testimony, all proper entries made by the clerk, and all
papers pertaihing to the cause and filed therein, except subpoenas, depositions, and other papers which are used as mere
evidence, are to be deemed part of the record. But in-an
action by equitable proceedings, tried upon written testimony,
the depositions and all papers which were used as evidence,
are to be certified up to the Supreme Court, and shall be so cer-

EX IARTE PARKER;
Opinion 'of tbe, Court.

tified, .not by transcript, but in the original form. But a transcript of a motion, affidavit, or ther paper, when it relates to
a collateral matter, shall not be certified unless by direction of
the appellant. If so 'certified, wheii not material to the-determination of the appeal or writ of error, the court may direct
the person blamablo therefor to pay the costs thereof."
It is further set forth that, accompanying a large quantity
of written testimony, and a great number of detached, papers
in said cause, were two certificates, copies of which are, respectively, as follows:

"etcaeof

feree.

"I, B. L. Sharpstein, referee in the case of Timothy P. Denney v. H. Parker and J. F. Boyer, db hereby certify that the
foregoing evidence, consisting of five packages or bundles numbered one (1), two (2), three (3), four (4), and five (5) is the
evidence written down before me and taken in said action,
and that the same, with the documentary evidence returned
herewith by me into court, constitute the evidence submitted
to and taken by me in said action.
B. L. Smn.zusTEn, Referee."
"Dated March 10, 1882.
"Certiicate of elerk.
"I, A. Reeves Ayres, clerk of the District Court of Washington Territory and for the First Judicial District thereof,
holding terms at Walla Walla, Walla Walla County, in said
territory, do hereby certify that the five packages of testimony,
herewith transmitted to the Supreme Court, and numbered by
pages from I to 1572, is all the testimony in the case of Timothy P. Denney v. Rollon Parker and John F. Boyer as taken
before B. L. Sharpstein, Esquire, referee in said case, and by
him deposited with the clerk of said court; and I further
certify that the letters, papers, and exhibits herewith transmitted and numbered in red ink figures from 1 to 130, respectively, are all the papers, letters, and evidence introduced in said
cause before said referee, and by him deposited with the clerk
of said court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

"In testimony whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and
afiuxed the seal of said District Court this 15th day of June,

1883.

"[sE ,L.]

"A.

REEVES

AynS, Clerk,

"By FiANE W. GooDIuuE, -Deputy,
"U. S. Diprict Couwrt, FirstJudioialDistrict,
" Walla Walla, W~ashington Teeritory."l
The evidence in said cause was in no other manner authenticated.
It further appears that the said cause was docketed in"the
Supreme Court as upon the appeal of Hollon Parker. That
after divers motions had been determined in said-cause, the
same was argued onthe merits at the regular July Term,'1883,
and taken under advisement; but before a decision had been
reached, by an act of Congress, the organization of the Supreme
Court of Washington Territory was so altered as to make the
same consist of four justices, and as to disqualify the justice
rendering a decisiqn or judgment from sitting in the review
thereof.,
The death of the appellee was suggested, and due showing
made, and thereupon Elizabeth Denney, executrix of the last
will of Timothy P. Denney, deceased, -was substituted as
appellee,- and thereupon the cause was again placed upon the
docket of the Supreme Court for hearing at its regular July
Term, 1885. At that time the appellee moved to dismiss the
appeal on the grounds; first, that all the co-parties had not
joined in saia appeal, and had not been served with any notice
of appeal; and, second, because no evidence was properly certified. After argument it was determined by the court and
decided that each of the grounds in said motion was well taken;
and thereupon, for want of jurisdiction to hear and determine
the cause upon its merits; a iinal 'judgment of the court was
entered that the appeal from the judgment of the said District
C6urt be dismissed with costs.
Although the Supreme Court of Washington Territory rendeted judgment in this case 'for costs against Parker, the ap-'
-pellant, it, nevertheless, dismissed his appeal for want of juris-

EX PARTE PARKER.

743

Opinion of the Court.

diction in that court to entertain it. There were two grounds
alleged in the motion to dismiss, and in the opinion of the'
court givihg its reasons for granting the same, on which it
was contended and decided that Parker had failed to take the
necessary preliminary steps to transfer his cause from the District Court to the Supreme Court of the territory. It was
adjudged against him that he had not complied with the
requisition of the law prescribing the conditions precedent to
perfecting his appeal. TheSupreme -Court refused to hear the
cause and to decide it upon its merits, because it considered
that the. cause was not .lawfulLy before the court; that the
parties were not in court for the purposes of an appeal. This
presents a case for the exercise of the jurisdiction of this court
in mandamus according to the principles and practice applica-,
ble thereto. That writ properly lies in cases where the inferior court refuses to take jurisdicti6n where by law it ought
so to do, or where, having obtained jurisdiction in a cause; it
refuses to proceed in the due exercise thereof; but it will not
lie to correct alleged errors occurring in the exercise of' its
judicial discretion within 'its jurisdiction. As was said in Ex
.parte Brown, 116 U. S. 401, "-Mandamus lies to cQmpel a
court to take jurisdiction in a proper case, but not to control
its discretion while acting within its jurisdiction." In that
case the motion for the writ was denied because the court
below, having entertained jurisdiction of the cause, had dismissed it for want of due prosecution. That is to say, because
errors had not been assigned in accordance with the rules of
practice applicable to the form of the action; although the
statement in the report does not sufficiently recite the facts
from the record on which the opinion is based. In the present
case, the Supreme Court of Washington Territory, on consideration, decided that it could not legally exercise jurisdiction
upon the appeal of the petitioner Parker. The question for
our determination is whether that decision was in conformity
with law.
It appears from the record that on the 19th day of June,
1882, Parker addressed to his codefendant Boyer, a notice, in
which, after setting out the title of the court and of the cause,
it proceeds as follows:

OCTOBER TERM, i886.,
Opinion of the Court.

"To'Jokn F. -Boyer, one .of the defendants in the above-entitled
cause:
"You will please take notice that your codefendant, Hollon
Parker, in the above-entitled action, will, on this the 19th day
of June, 1882, file a notice of appeal and stay bond, and appeal said cause to the Supreme Court of Washington Territory,
holding terms at Olympia, July Term, 1883, and you are herewith requested to join in said appeal."
This' notice was duly signed and dated. Service of this
notice was acknowledged in writing by.Boyer, as.follows-:
"I hereby accept service of the above notice this 19th day
of June, 1882, and decline to join in an appeal in said cause,
wherein T. P. Denney is plaintiff and Hollon Parker'and'John
F. Boyer are defendants."
It was held .y the Supreme Court of the territory that this
notice upon Boyer was not a sufficient compliance with § 454,
because it was a notice of an intention to appeal, and not
notice of" an actual appeal. The language of. that section,
^already quoted, is:
"SEc. 454. A part of several.co-parties may appeal or prosecute a writ of error; but in such case they must serve notice
thereof upon all the other co-parties and file a proof thereof
with the clerk of the Supreme Court."
This was a notice of a present intention to appeal, with a
request to Boyer, 4s a codefendant, to join. in it. We cannot
understand how it could more exactly and effectually comply
with this section of the statute. If the required notice must
be' of an appeal already actually'taken, then.it is not a condition precedent to the perfecting of the appeal, and the failure
tb give it would .not deprive the court of jurisdiction to proceed in the cause; but if the -notice is a necessary prerequisite
to perfecting, the appeal, then it cannot be a notice of an appeal already taken. Besides which the codefendant Bojer
expressly declined to join in the appeal, whicli, of itself, was a
waiver of any further notice.
The other ground -on which the court proceeded was that
there was nothing in the transcript to certify to the court that

.EX PARTE PARKER.
OplniQn of the Crourt.

it had befor6 it the whole of the evidence., Section 461 of the
Code of Washington Territoryl is as follows.
"When a cause is tried by the eourt, it shalI not be.necessary.,
in order to secure a review of the same in the Supreme Court,
that there should have been any finding of facts or conclusions
of law stated in the record; but the Supreme CCotirt'shall hear
and determine the same whenever it, shall appear from a certificate of the judge, agreement of parties, .or their attorneys,
or, in case the evidence consists wholly of Written testimony,
from the certificate of the clerk, that the transrip t contains
,all the evidence. introduced by the parties on the trial in the
court below."
By § 464, her*etofore set out, it is provided that "in an action
by equitable proceedings, tried upon, written testimony, the
depositions and-all papers which were used as evidence are to
be certified up to the Supreme Court, and shall be so certified,
not by transcript, but" in the original form. But a transcript
of a motion, afidavit, or other paper, when' it relates to a collateral matter, shall not be certified unless by direction of the
appellant. If so certified, when not material,to the determinati6n of the appeal or writ of error, the court may direct the
person blamable to pay the costs thereof."
In this case the appellant, in writing, in his notice of appeal,
gave the following direction, to the clerk of the court:
""
And you, the clerk of said court, will please transmit to
the Supreme Court all the papers iled in this cause, (except
subpoenas,) as by law provided in §§ 459 and 464, Code of 1881,
together with your certificate, as provided in Rule 2 6f the.
Supreme Court."
The cause, it will be remembered, while in the District Court
had been referred'to B. L. ..Sharpstein as a referee. The order
of reference directed him. to "take the evidence and a full
accounting of said cause, and find the facts thereon, and that
he report the same to this court," &c. The cause was heard
by the District'Court upon exceptions to the report of the
referee, consisting of the testimony as returned by him, with
his findings of fact thereon. The decree sought to be appealed
from was based upon that report and the findings and concla-

OCTOBER TERAI,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

sions of the referee, the- exceptions to which on behalf of
Parker were overruled. The certificate of the referee returned
into the District Court, and sent up to the Supreme Court as a
part of the transcript by the clerk of the District Court, in pursuance of the appeal, was as follows:
"I, B. L. Sharpsteifi, referee in case .of Timothy P. Denney
v. H. Parker and J. F. Boyer, do hereby certify that the foregoing evidence, consisting of five packages or bundles, numbered one (1), two (2), three (3), four (4), five (5), is the evidence
written down before me and taken in said action, and that the
same, with the documentary evidence returned herewith by me
into court, constitutes the evidence submitted to and taken by
me in said action."
The clerk of the District Court stated in his certificate, contained in the transcript transmitted to the Supreme Court,
"that the five packages of testimony herewith transmitted to
the Supreme. Court, and nuinbered by pages from 1 to 1572, is
all the testimony in the case of Tinmothy P. Denney v. Hollon
Parker and John F. Boyer, as taken before B. L. Sharpstein,
Esquire, referee in said case, and byhim deposited with the
clerk of said court. And I further certify, that the letters,
papers, and exhibits, herewith transmitted and nuiibered in
ink figures from 1 to 130, respectively, are all the papers, letters, and evidence introduced in said cause before said referee,
and by him deposited with the clerk of said court."
The transcript on appeal also was certified by the clerk,
stating "that the foregoing is a full, true, and correct transcript of so much of the record in the above-entitled cause as I
am by statute and directions of attorneys in said cause required
to transmit to the Supreme Court."
It appears from these documents very clearly that nothing
was omitted in the traiiscript by direction of attbrneys except
the subpcenas; that all the testimony introduced by the parties on the trial, before the referee was returned into the. Supreme Court, duly certified as such, and that that constituted
all the evidence introduced by.the parties on, the trial in the
court below, in accordance with § 451 of the Territorial Code,
because it appears by the decree sought to -be appealed from

FOURTH NATIONAL BANK v. FRANCKLYN.

7'47

Syllabus.

that the cause was finally heard upon the report of the referee,
the exceptions thereto of the defendant Paker being overruled,
and the report of said referee being in all things'confirmed,
except as modified and altered by the findings and conclusions'
of the court itself. It thus, appears with certainty that the

transcript contained all the evidence introduced by the parties
on the trial in'the court below. It follows tha- Parker's appeal
had been duly taken and perfected, "and the cause had been

properly transferred from the District to the Supreme Court
of the territory; and that the latter, having acquired jurisdiction theieof, should have proceeded in the exercise of its jurisdiction to hear and determine the same upon its merits. For
the failure to do so
The writ of mandamus must "'ssue. It i aocoringly so

ord, red.

FOURTH NATIONAL. BANK OF NEW YORK v.
FRANCKLYN.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTH7RN DISTRICT OF 2NEW YORK.
Argued January 14, 1887.--Decided March 21, 1887.

Where the statutes of the state which'creates a corporation, making the
stockholders liable for the corporate debts, provide a special remedy, the
liability of a stockholder can b3 enforced in no other manner in a court
of the United States.
Under the statutes of Rhode Island, making the stockholders of a manu-.
facturing corporatiou liable for its debts until its capital stock has beta
paid in and a certificate thereof recorded;..aid originally providing tht
the property of stockholders might be taken on writ of attachment. or
execution issued against the corporation, or the creditor might have his
remedy against the stockholders by bill iu equity; and since modified
by enacting that all proceedings to enforce the liability of a stockholder
for the debts of a corporation shall be either by 'suit in equity or
by action of debt on the judgment obtained against the corporation;
a creditor of a Rhoda Island corporation cannot bring an action at
law against the executor of a stockholder In the -Circuit Conrt of the
.United States in NeX' York, without having obtained a judgment agdinst
.the corporation, even if the corporation has been adjudged bankrupt.

