SPEIDEL v. HENRICI.
Statement of Facts.

case is by an appropriate action for the recovery of the possession of the land and damages for the detention. This does not

present a Federal question, and
-Themotion to dismiss is granted.

SPEIDEL v. UEN-RIOI.
APPEAT

FROM THE CIROUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
Argued December 14, 1886.-Decided March 7, 18S7.

The general rule that express trusts are not within the statute of limita'tions does not apply to a trust openly disavowed by the trustee with the
knowledge of the cestui que trust.
Implied trusts are barred by. lapse of time.
A court of equity will not assist one who has slept upon his rights, and
shows no excuse for his laches in asserting them.
If a bill in equity shows upon its face that the plaintiff, by reason of lapse
of timne and of his own laches, is not entitled to relief, the objection
may be taken by demurrer.
A bill in equity against persons holding a fund avowedly in trust for the
common benefit of the members of a voluntary association, living together as a-commuhity and subject to its regulations, cannot, whether
the trust is lawful or unlawful, be maintained by one who has left the
community, and for fifty years afterwards taken no step to claim any
interest in the fund.

Tins was a bill in equity, filed June 7, 1882, by Elias
Speidel, a citizen of Ohio, against Jacob Herici and Jonathan
Lenz, trustees of-the Harmony Society of Beaver County in
the State of Pennsylvania, and citizens of Pennsylvania, and

containing the following allegations:
That the plaintiff's parents lived in the kingdom of Wurtemburg in Germany up to the year 180-, "engaged in farming
and well to do, and without any education or knowledge of
the world or of business, but devout Christians, members of
,the Established Protestant Church of that country, and earnest
seekers after §piritual light and their salvation."
That at the same time there lived in the same neighbor-

OCTOBER TERMI, 1886.
Statement of Facts.

hood one George Rapp, "a farmer and vintner, -c' an education
superior, to that of the plaintiff's parents and of the simple
far-ming people of that country, and who was a -person of
great intellectual power, clear-sighted, sharp-witted, eager for
superiority, and a born'leader of men."
That about 1800 Rapp, without license or ordination, and
in violation of law, began to preach clandestinely to his countrymen, including the plaintiff's parents, and " preached to
them the doctrine that the Lord had chosen him as their
spiritual leader, that the second advent of Christ and the
beginning of the millennium, as taught by the Revelation of
St. John, was near at hand, and that, in order to be .zived
from eternal damnation, it would be necessary for them to
separate from the established church of their country, to form
a settlement by themselves under his guidance and control,
and thus fit themselves for the second coming of Christ and
accomplish their salvation."
That Rapp, "by means of such clandestine teachings, and
by the exercise of, strong will power over the .weaker minds
of his said disciples, obtained such overpowering influence
over about three hundred families of them," including the
plaintiff's parents, that he caused them to separate from their
established church, to believe in and accept Rapp .as their only
spiritual leader and as a necessary medium of their salvation,
and to believe that it was necessary for their salvation that
they should sell all their land and possessions for cash in hand,
leave their country and friends, and, "as the chosen of the
Lord, form a colony by themselves, either in the Holy Land
or. in the United States of America, in which places Christ
would first reappear on earth;" that during the year 1804 and
1805, "in pretended furtherance of the said pretended plan of
their salvation," Rapp made about one hundred and twentyfive families of them, the plaintiff's parents included,. sell all
their land aid possessions, emigrate to the United States, and
settle near Zelienople, in Butler County, in the State of Pinnsylvania, upon a wild, uncultivated tract of land, selected by
said Rapp and by him called Harmony, "where the plaintiff
.was born, in the year 1807, and where he was raised;" and

SPEIDEL v. HENRICI.
Statement of Facts.

there "they formed a colony or voluntary association, called
and known as the ' Harmony Society, and were made by said
Rapp and became wholly subject to his absolute power anl
control in both spiritual and temporal affairs." That, up to their arrival at Harmony, the heads of said
families had severally paid their own expenses, and had kept,
and had intended to keep, their several means as their own,
and to live each family by itself; "but when said Rapp had
succeeded in bringing them to said Butler County, and in
separating them from their home and friends, he fraudulently
and corruptly conceived the scheme to take advantage of their
ignorance and helplessness, and of their blind reliance upon
him as the prophet of the Lord, and the Lord's chosen mouthpiece in guiding them to salvation, for the purpose of gratifying .his fierce ambition and lust of power, by acquiring
unrestricted dominion 'over the money and means and mode
of living of his followers, and by reducing them to abject
dependence upon his irresponsible will;" and "in furtherance of
this scheme, falsely and fraudulently pretended to his said followers, .the plaintiff's parents included, that they could not
and would not be saved from eternal damnation, except that
they would renounce their plan of establishing a separate and
exclusive home for each family in said settlement, and that
they would yield up all their possessions, the same as it had
been done by the early Christians, according to the fourh
chapter of the Acts of the Apostles, and that they would lay
their said possessions at the feet of saidRapp as their apostle,
to be placed into a common fund of said Harmony Society, in
the .keeping of said Rapp as their trustee, and that they would
live thenceforth as a community or a common household with
all the rest of the followers of said lRapp,'and submit themselves and their families to the control of said Rapp to do for
said community such work as he should direct, the avails
thereof to form part of said common fund, relinquishing to
him and to his successors in the leadership of said community
the management of all of said trust funds and the disposition
of their own persons and those of their wives and children,
and they receiving only the necessaries of life in return; but

'OCTOBER TERTAI, 1886.
Statement of Facts.

that said Rapp knew better, and did not honestly believe any
of the foregoing things to be necessary to their salvation:"
That "all of said families, the parents of the plaintiff included, induced by and relying upon the said false and fraudulent representations, and believing that they would-bo eternally
-damned unless they should obey the said teachings of said
:Rapp, immediately, in the year 1805, yielded up all their possessions to the said common fund of said ]armony Society,
the parents of the plaintiff contributing thereto the sum of
about one thousand dollars, and placed said fund into the
keeping of said Rapp as their trustee, and lived thenceforth as
a community or a common household with all the rest of the
followers of said Rapp, and submiitted, theinselves and their
families to the control of said Rapp to do f6r said community
such work as he directed, and allowed the avails thereof to
form part of said common fund, and relinquished to him and
his successors in the leadership of said community the management of all of, said trust funds and the disposition of their own
persons and those of their wives and children, and they received only the necessaries of life in return, for none of which
they, or any of them, ever received or were promised any
other consideration than the pretence that, by complying with
the said teachings of said iRapp, they would not be damned,
and that, .as the chosen of the Lord, they would be led by him
as their prophet, priest and king to eternal salvation."
That "said Rapp received and accepted said trust fuid and
the contributions of the parents of the plaintiff thereto, and
all the-profits and interest, and all the accretions of said fund
by the work of the plaintiff and of the other inhabitants of
said community and otherwise, not as his own, but in trust for
the members of said families and the contributors of said fund
and for their common benefit, and always, up, to his death,
recognized and acknowledged said trust, and disclaimed any
greater interest in said funds than that of ani - other contributor thereto, and any other right to the management and control of said funds than by virtue of his pretended apostolic
leadership of said community."
That in 1807 Rapp; "f6r the purpose of breaking up among

SI'EIDEL v. HENRICI.
Statement of Facts.

them the last tie which could have caused them to have interests of their own separate from those of the said community
at large and conflicting with his absolute dominion over their
fortune and mode of life, and over their bodies and those of
their w:ves and children, and as a part of his said fraudulent
and corrupt scheme," "falsely and fr audulently pretended
to his said followers, the plaintiff's parents included, that there
had been no difference of the sexes nor any seed of death in
man until both were brought about by original sin;" "that
all intercourse of the sexes, even in wedlock, was polluting,
and that they could not and would not be saved from eternal
damnation except by abjuration of matrhnony and of all
s.xual indulgence on the part of those of his followers who
were still single, and by a cessation of all conjugal intercourse
on the part of those of his followers who were already married; but that said Iapp knew better, and did not honestly
believe in said statements; that all of the married persons of
said community, the parents of the plaintiff included, induced
by and relying upon the said false and fraudulent representations, and believing that they would otherwise be eternally
damnned, immediately ceased to have any further conjugal
intercourse, and thenceforth lived as if single, and those who
were single abjured matrimony and all sexual indulgence."
That the plaintiff "was raised in and as a part of said cominunity, and, in common with the younger members of the
fanilies forming the same, was taught from his earliest in.fancy by Rapp to believe, and by reason of said teachings did
believe" in the doctrines proprounded by Rapp as aforesaid,
and "continuously, faithfully and diligently worked in and
for said comnunity, under the control and direction of said
Rapp, from the age of twelve years until the age of twentyfour years, in all for the full term of twelve years, and allowed
the avails of his said work to form, and they did become and
now are, part of said common fund; and the plaintiff contributed to said fund his time, attention and skill, and increased
the,, wealth and promoted the interests of said community, and
reccived nothing more in return than the bare necessaries of
life !or the said term of twelve years, and no'longer, which

382

OCTOBER- TERM, 1$86.
Statement of Facts.

were of far less value than the avails of his said work, for
none of which he received any other consideration than the

pretence that by complying with the said teachings of said
Rapp he would not be damned, and that, as one of the chosen
of the lord, the plaintiff' would be led by said Rapp as his
prophet, priest and king to eternal salvation;" and that his
contributions to the said fund, after deducting therefrom the
value of the necessaries of life so received by him, were largely
in excess of the sum and value of, three hundred dollars, and
by the interest and profit on their investment in said fund
now largely exceeded the sum and value of over thirty thousand dollars.
That in 1815 the community, including the plaintiff, and his
parents, removed to Posey County, in the'State of Indiana,
where, in 1816, both the plaintiff's parents died; and that in
1825 the community, including the plaintiff, removed thence
to Beaver County, in the State of Pennsylvania, where -it has
ever since remained.
That IRapp ruled over the community continuously from
1805" until his death in 18f7 with absolute dominion, making
the only laws or rules that were allowed to govern it, teaching
and making them all believe that "whoever broke any of said
laws or rules cormnitted the unpardonable sin, the sin against
-the Holy Ghost, which would neither be forgiven here nor in
the other world;" forbidding the use of tobacco; determining
"the character and amount of victuals to be supplied from the
common store to the inmates of the cbmmuiiity, and the material and cut of the dress of all males and females therein, and
the hours of labor, rest, and eating;" sitting as sole judge and
jury to try all charges against them, fixing the punishment at
will by putting on a diet of bread and water, excluding from
church for a time, or reprimanding or expellibg, without
action of the community, or hearing or appeal; making them
confess their sins to him, "invariably, and as a necessary condition of receiving the forgiveness of the Lord;" not permit,ting'them to acquire any knowledge of the English language,
or to have access to English books or papers; forbidding them,
on pain of damnation, to associate with or to visit any but

SPEIDEL v. HENRICI.
Statement of Facts.

inmates of the community; not allowing them to have any
money or to buy or sell on their own account, threatening
them for any disobedience with the punishment of Ananias
and Sapphira; permitting them to become citizens of the
United States, but compelling them to vote at elections for
the candidate whom he selected; repeatedly and corruptly
making some of them forge the names of dead persons to
legal instruments, and sign and swear to false statements, he
knowing them to be false; that during all this time his management of said trust funds was selfish and rapacious; that in.
1818 he destroyed the records of the oiiginal contributions
made by the heads of families in 1805, for the avowed purpose
of preventing the young people from finding out about them;
that he studiously and fraudulently concealed from the contributors to said trust funds all his money transactions,
and habitually destroyed the records thereof, and in 1845
gathered up out of the said trust fund and secreted the sum
of five hundred and ten thousand dollars in coin.
That "the whole of the said system of said Rapp was
tepugnant to public policy and the laws of the land, and more
especially in this: that no inm'ate of said community was permitted by said Rapp to marry therein, and that whoever was
about to enter into the married state was compelled by said
Rapp to leave said community; and that the plaintiff, in the'
year 1831, being about to enter into the married state, had'to
leave and did leave said community, although said Rapp did
permit, as an exception, a few of his favorites to marry in said
comnunity and to remain therein; and until after the plaintiff so left said community he -was kept under such duress and
restraint by the iron rule of said Rapp that he did not know,
and had no means of ascertaining, the iniquity and degradation thereof and the impious and blasphemous character of
the teachings of said Rapp."
That the said trust fund so received and accepted by Rapp,
by profits, interest and accretions, had become of the value
exceeding eight million dollars, and the net profits thereof
for iiiany years and now exceeded the sum of two hundredthou-sand dollars annually; that at the death of Rapp one Rome-

OCTOBER TER-M,

1886.

Statement of Facts.

lius L. Baker and the defendant Henrici succeeded him as
trustees of said trust, and at the death. of Baker, in 188,the
defendants succeeded Baker and Henrici its
trustees of said
trust and managers of all the estate of the Harmony Society;
and that Baker and IHenrici, while such trustees, and the defendants ever since, "received and accepted the said trust fund,
and all the profits and interest thereof, and all accretions of
said fund received by them, not as their own, but in the same
trust in which said Rapp had held said fund, and always recognized and acknowledged said trust, and always disclaimed
any greater interest in said fund than any other contributor
thereto; that the plaintiff did not know and had no means of
ascertaining the names and places of abode of the other parties interested in said fund, but they were very numerous and
their interest is common with his; and that neither Rapp nor
either of the defendants' ever rendered to the plaintiff, or to
any of the beneficiaries of said fund, any account of their
trust, although the plaintiff demanded an account of them and
a settlement of his share therein before the bringing of this
suit in May, 1882.
"The prayer of the bill was "that said trust be rescinded -and
held for naught, as resting upon fraud and iniquity and being
contrary to public policy and the laws of,the land; that the
persons interested in its assets be remitted to their original
rights, the plaintiff included; that the defendants discover the
names and places of abode of the other parties interested in
the funds and property under the control of the defendants,
for the purpose that they may be brought before the court;
that an acconnt be taken of tlhe said trust and assets and of
the share of the plaintiff therein; that he have compensation
for his contributions to said trtist and to its assets; that a distribution of said assets be had, and that the plaintiff receive
his share therein; " and for further relief.
The defendants demurred to the bill, and assigned the following causes of demurrer:
"1stw That it appears in and by said bill that more than
fifty years haVe elapsed since the said alleged cause of complaint occurred to the plaintiff, whereby said cause of corn-

SPEIDEL v. HENRICI.
Opinion of the Court.

plaint hath become barred by the statute of Iifiltations in
such cases made and provided.
"2d. That it appears in and by said bill of complaint that
the causes of complaint are stale, and that so long a time has
passed since the matters and things complained of took place
that it would be contrary to .equity and good conscience for a
court to take cognizance thereof, or to enforce any further or
other answer thereto.
"3d. That no case is stated in said bill authorizing the court
to grant the relief sought, or any other relief."
The Circuit Court, without considering the first and third
causes of demurrer, sustained the demurrer for the' second
cause assigned, and dismissed the bill. 15 Fed. Rep. 753. The
plaintiff appealed to this court, and having since died, the
appeal was prosecuted by his executors.
31r. Wlliarn Reinecke and -M. George -Hoadly for appellants. .Mr. Herman .Afareworth was with them on the brief.
2f)'. George Shims, '., for appellees. _Xh. C. S.Fetterman
was with him on the brief.
MR. JsTice

GnAY delivered +,he opinion of the court.

This bill was filed Against the trustees of the Harmony
Society, an unincorporated association of persons living together a3 a communuity, by a former member of the society,
claiming a share in property in the hands of the trustees.
The bill is sought to be maintained on the ground that the
trust was not a charity, in the legal sense, and the members of
the society were equitable tenants in common of the property
held in trust. The learned counsel for the appellants differ in
their views of the trust; the one insisting that it was unlawful because founded in fraud and against public policy, and
should therefore be dissolved; and the other contending that
it was a lawful and continuing trust. We have not found it
necessary to consider which of these is the sound view, because.
we are of opinion that the plaintiff did not show himself to be'
entitled to invoke th3 interposition of a court of equity.
VOL. cxx-25

OCTOBER TERU, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

As a general rule, doubtless, length of time is no bar to a
trust clearly established, and express trusts are not within the
statute of limitations, because The possession.of the trustee is
presumed to be the possession of his cestui que trust. -Prevots
v. Gratz, 6 Wheat. 481, 497 ; Lewis v. Hawkins, 23 Wall. 119.
126;
Co. v. Durant,95 U. S. 576.
ButRailroad
this rule is, in accordance with the reason on which
it is
founded, and as has been clearly pointed out by Chancellor
Kent and Mr. Justice Story, subject to tlhis qualification,
that time begins to run against a trust as soon as it is openly
-disavowed by the trustee, insisting upon an adverse right and
interest which is clearly and unequivocally made known to
the cestui que trust; as when, for instance, such transactions
take place between the trustee and the c~stui "que trust as
would in case of tenants in common amount to an ouster of
one of them by the other. Kane v. Bloodgood, 7 Johns. Oh.
.90, 124 (.
. 11 Am. Dec. 417); Robinson v. Hook, 4 Mason,
139, 152; Baker v. W izg, 3 Sumner, 4 '5, 486; Oliver v.
Piat, 3 How. 333, 411. This qualification has been often
recognized in the opinions of this court, and distinctly afilrmed by its latest judgment upon the subject. Wllion v.
Watkins, 3 Pet. 43, 52; Boone v. Chiles, 10 Pet. 177, .223;
Seymour v. -reer,- 8 Wall. 202, 218; Ba.o v. Rives, 106 U.
S.99, 107; .Phillippiv. Phillive,115 U. S.151.
In the case of an implied or constructive trust, unless there
has been a fraudulent concealment of the cause of action, lapse
of time is as, complete a bar in equity las at law. Hovenden v.
Annesley, 2 Sch. & Lef. 607, 634 ; Beckford v. WVade, 17 Ves.
87. In such a case, Chief Justice Marshall repeated and
approved the statement of Sir Thomas .Plumer, M. R., in a
most important case in which his decision was affirmed by the
Itouse of Lords, that "both on principle and aiithority, the
laches and non-claim of th~e rightful owner of an equitable
estate, for a period of twenty years, (supposing it the case of
one who must within that period have made his claim in a
court of law, had it been a legal estate,) under no disability,
and where there has been no fraud, will constitute a bar to
equitable relief, by analogy to the statute of limitations, if,

SPEIDEL v. HENRICI.
Opinion of the Court.

during all'that period, the possession has been -under a claim
unequivocally adverse, and without anything having beeni
done or said, directly or indirectly, to recognize' the title of
such rightful owner by the adverse possessor." Elmendorf v.
Taylor, 10 Wheat. 152, 174; Cholmondeley v..clinton, 2 Jac.
& Walk. 1, 175, and-4 Bligh, 1.
Independently of any statute of limitations, courts o eqnity
uniformly decline to assist a person who has slept upon his
rights and shows no excuse for his laches in asserting them.
"A court of equity," said Lord Qamden, "has always efuged
its aid to stale demands, where the party slept upon his rights,
and acquiesced for a great length of time. Nothing can call
forth this court into activity, but conscience, good faith and
reasonable diligence; where these are wanting, the court is
passive, and does nothing. Laches and neglect are always
discountenanced, and therefore, from the beginning of this
jurisdiction, there was always a limitation to suits in this
court." Smith v. Clay, 3 IBro. Ch.640, note. This doctrine
has been repeatedly recognized and acted on here. Piatt v.
Vatlier, 9 Pet. 405; AfcAnig/lt v. Taylor, 1 How. 161; Bowman v. IMatken; 1 How. 189; TFagner v. Baird, 7 How. 234;
Badger v. Badger, 2 Wall. 87; Hume v. Beazle, 17 Wall. 336;
farsh v. MTitmore, 21 Wall. 178; Sullivan v. Portland &fi
JEennebee Ra~l'oad,94 U. S. 966 ; Godden v. .rimrel, 99 U. S.
201. In ifume v. Beale, the court, in dismissing, because of
unexplained delay in suing, a bill by cestuis que trust against
a trustee under a deed, 6bserved that it was not important to
detefrmine. whether he was the trustee of a mere dry legal
estate or whether his duties and responsibilities extended further. .17 Wall. 348: See also Bright v. Legerton, 29 Beavan,
'60, and 2 D., F. & J. 606.
When the bill shows upon its face that the plaintiff, by reason of lapse of time and of his own laches, is not entitled to
relief, the objection may be taken by demurrer. 2Maxwell v.
Jennedy, 8 How. 210.; )Vational Bank v. Ca~yenter, 101 U. S.
567; Lansdale v. Smith, 106 U. S. 391.
The allegations of this bill, so far as they are material to the
defence of laches, are in substance as follows:

OCTOBL R, TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

The Hlarmony Society is a voluntary association, formed in
1805 by the plaintiff's parents and other heads of families,
who had emigrated from Germany under the leadership of one
IRapp, and become subject to his control in both spiritual and
temporal affairs. In that year Rapp, for the purpose of acquiring absolute dominion over their means and mode of living;
falsely and fraudulently represented to them that they could
not be saved from eternal damnation, except by renouncing
the plan of a separate home for each family, yielding up all
their fossessions, as had been done by the early Christians,
and laying them at the feet of Rapp as their apostle, to be
put into a common fund of the society, and thenceforth living
as a community under his control, receiving in return only the
necessaries of. life; and they, induced by and relying on his
false and fraudulent representations, immediately yielded up
all their possessions to the common fund of the society, and
placed the fund in his keeping as their trustee, and thence:
forth lived as a community or common household, submitted
themselves and their families to do for the community such
work as he directed, allowed the avails thereof to form part
of the common fund, and r~linquished to him and his successors in the leadership of the community the management of
the trust fund and the control of their own persons and those
of their wives and children, and received only the necessaries
of life in return. IRapp received and accepted the trust fund,
and all the accretions to it by the work of the inhabitants of
the community or otherwise, not as his own, but in trust for
the members of those families and the contributors t6 the
fund, and for their common benefit; and always, up to his
death in 1847, recognized and acklKowledged said trust, and disclaimed any gTeater interest in the fund than that of any
other contributor, and any other right to its management and
control than by virtum of his leadership of the community. In
1807 Rapp obliged his- folloivers to abjure matrimony, and
thenceforth did not pei 'mit them to marry in the community,
and compelled any one about to mrry to leave it. The plaintiff was born in the community -in 1807,.and was reared in and
as a part of it, under Rapp's teachings and control, and faith-

SPEIDEL v. HENRICI.
Opinion of the Court.

fully worked for it from the age of twelve to the age. of
twenty-four years, and allowed the avails of his work to become part of the common fund, and received in return nothing
but the necessaries of life, which were of far less value than the
avails of his work; and in 1831, being about to marry, had to
leave and did leave the community. The trust fund so received and accepted by iRapp, with its profits,. intqrest and
accretions, now amounts to eight millions of dollars, and yields
an annual income of two hundred thousand dollars, and is
held by the defendants on the same trust on which Rapp held
it in his lifetime; and neither Rapp nor the defendants -ever
rendered any account to the plaintiff or to the beneficiaries of
the fund, although the plaintiff, before bringing this suit in
Iay, 1882, demanded of the defendants an account and a
settlement of his share.
The trust on which Rapp, and the defendants as. his sue-'
cessors, held the common fund of the Harmony Society, is
described in one place in the bill as "for the members of said
families and the contributors -of said fund and for their common benefit," that is to say, as is clearly explained by what
goes before, in trust for their common benefit as a community,
living together in the community, working for the community,
subject to the regulations of the community, and supported
by the community. This was 'the "said trust," which, as the
bill afterwards alleges, Rapp, up to his death, and his successors, until the bringing of this suit, "always recognized and
acknowledged." The constant avowal of the trustees that
they held the trust fund upon such a trust is wholly inconsistent with and adverse to the claim of the plaintiff that they
held the fund in trust for the benefit of the same persons as
individuals, though withdrawn from the community, living by
themselves, and taking no part in its worl4.
The plaintiff, upon his own showing, withdrew from the
community in 1831, and never returned to it, and, for more
than fifty years, took no step to demand an account of the
trustees, or to follow up the rights which he claimed in this
bill.-

If he ev*er had any rights, he could not assert them after

OCTOBER TERU, 1886.
Syllabus.

such a delay; not on the ground of an express and lawful
trust, because the express trust stated in the bill, and constantly avowed by the trustees during this long period, was
wholly inconsistent with any trust which would sustain his
claim; not o the ground that the express trust stated in the
bill was unlawful and void, and therefore the trustees held the
trust fund for the benefit of,all the contributors in proporti6n
to the amounts of their contributions, because that would be
an implied or resulting trust, and barred by lapse of time. In
any aspect o' the case, therefore, if it was not strictly'within
the statute of limitations, yet the plaintiff showed so little
vigilance and so great laches, that the Circuit Court rightly
held that he was not entitled to relief in equity.
It is proper td add that this decision does not. rest in any
degree upon the judgments of the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania and'of this court, in the cases cited at the bar, in favor
of the trustees of the Harmony Society in suits brought
against them by other members, because each of those cases
differed in its facts, and especially in showing that the society
had written articles of association, which are not disclosed by
this bill
k4iber v. Rapp, 5 Watts, 351 (S. C.30 Am. Dec.
327); Baker v..Xiacdrieb, 19 How. 126
-DecreeaJffrmid.

ROLSTON v. M ISSOURI FUND COtVMhISSIONERS.
MISSOURI FUND COIMMISSIQNERS v. ROLSTON.
APPEALS

FROM THE

CIRCuIT

THE, WESTERN

COURT OF THE

N ED STATES FOR

DisTRiCr OF MISSoUmI.

Argued December 1, 2, 1886.-Decided March 7,1887.

-The State of Missouri havifig loaned itscredit to the Hannibal and St. Joseph
Railroad Company for 93,000,000,*upon a first lien of the road.and
property of the company, the legislature on the 20th February, 1865,
authorized that bompnany to mortgage its road and property to trustees
to-secure an issue of bonds to that amount, and further enacted that
whenever those trustees should "pay into the treasury of the state a sum

