OCTOBER TERM, -1886.
Statement of Facts:.

-

able to adopt that view of the evidence. The fact that by
careful workmanship the products are indistinguishable by
mere inspection does not establish the identity of the 'processes, and as the patent for the product must be limited to an
article made by the particular process, the inquiry must be
determined by a comparison between the methods 'actually
employed. As that used by the defendants differs from that
described in the patent, just as that employed by Brocksieper
does, the process of the defendants cannot be construed as an
infringement without at the same time declaring that used by
Brocksieper to be an anticipation.
The decree of the Circuit Court must, therefore, be
Affimed.

ROSEN-BAU-M v. BAUER.
ROSENBAUM

v. SAN FRANCISCO.

nD STATES FOR THE
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UN
OF
CALIFORNIA.
DISTRICT
Submitted Jauuary 17, 1887.-Decided

farc 7, 1887.

A Circuit Court of the United States cannot acquire jurisdiction, by removal from a state court, under § 2 of the act of March 3, 1875, c. 137
(18 Stat. 470) of an original proceeding to obtain a mandamus against
•the treasurer or the.board of supervisors of a city, to compel them to
take action, in accordance with a statute of the state, to pay the interest
or principal of bonds issued by the city.
Section 716 of the Revised Statutes, giving power to a Circuit Court to
issue all writs not specifically provided for by statute, which may be necessary for the exercise of its jurisdiction, and agreeable to the usages
and principles of law, construed in connection with §§ 1 aid 2 of the act
of 1875, operates to prevent the issuing by the Circuit Court of a writ of
mandamus, except in aid of a jurisdiction previously acquired by that
court.

THsE actions were commenced in a state court of Califor-

nia, were removed thence into the Circuit Court of the United
States on the plaintiff's motion, and were remanded to the

ROSENBAUM v. BAUER.
Opinion of the Court.

state court on the defendant's motion. The plaintiff. sued out
these writs of error. The case is stated in the opinion of the
court.
Xr. Attorney GeneraZ and -Y. A. I. 1hodes for plaintiff in
error.
l'. -Phlip G. Gapin and Mr. George .Flourney,Xr., for
defendants in error.
Mr. JUSTICE BLATcHFoRD delivered the opinion of the court.
On the 13th of October, 1885, Albert S. IRosenbaum brought
an action in the Superior Court of the city and county of
San Francisco, in the State of California., against John A.
Bauer, treasurer of the city and county of San Francisco. The
complaint set forth the issuing of certain bonds, called Montgomery Avenue bonds, by the Board of Public Works of the
city and county of San Francisco, under an act of the legislature of California, approved April 1, 1872, Stats. of -1871-2,
c. 626, entitled "An act to open and establish a public street
in the city and county of San Francisco, to be called 'Montgomery Avenue,' and to take private lands therefor." The act
provided for the creation by taxation of a fund, for the payment of interest on the bonds, and of a sinking fund for their
redemption; and enacted that whenever such treasurer should
have in his custody $10,000 or more belonging to the sinking
fund, he should advertise for proposals for the surrender and
redemption 6f die bonds. The complaint alleged that the
plaintiff owned twenty-one of the bonds of $1000 each; that
the treasurer had in his hands over $12,000 belonging to thesinking fund; that the plaintiff had exhibited his bonds to the
treasurer and demanded that he advertise for proposals for
the surrender of bonds issued under the act; that he refused
so to do; and that no part of such bonds had been paid. The
complaint prayed for a judgment that the defendant, "as
treasurer of the city .and county of San Francisco, be commanded to advertise for the redemption of Montgomery Avenfe

OCTOBER TERM, 1886
Opinion of the Court.

bonds, as in section eleven of the act hereinabove referred to
provided."
Three days afterwards, the plaintiff filed a petition for the
removal of the suit into the Circuit Court of the United States
for the District of California, on the ground that the plaintiff
was a citizen of New York and the defendant a citizen of California. The state court made an order of removal. The record being fied in the Federal court, the defendant demurred
to the complaint, specifying as a ground of demurrer that the
Federal court had no jurisdiction of the subject of the action.
The case being heard on the demurrer, - the court made an
order, on the 18th of January, 1886, that the cause be remanded to the state court, "thi§ court having no jurisdiction
of this cause in this form." The plaintiff has brought a writ
of error to review that order.
The same act provided that an annual tax should be levied
on the property therein mentione t to raise money to pay the
coupons annexed to the bonds, and another annual tax to
create a sinking, fund for the redemption of the bonds, the
taxes to be levied in the manner in which other taxes are
levied, that is, by the Board of Supervisors. The same Rosenbaum, being the owner of twenty-one of the bonds, and of
eight matured coupons, of $30 each, attached to each bond,
each coupon being for six months' interest, the first of them
having matured January 1, 1882, brought an action, on the
12th of December, 1885, in the said Superior Court of the city
and county of San Francisco, against the Board of Supervisors
.of the city and county of San Francisco. The complaint set
forth that there were no funds in the hands of the treasurer
applicable to the payment of any of 'the coupons ; and that the
plaintiff had demanded of the Board that it levy a tax suflicient'to pay the coupons, but it had refused so to do. The
complaint prayed for a judgment "against said Board of
Supervisors, commanding them to levy the tax hereinabove
mentioned, and tb continue to levy said tax from year to year
until all the interest upon said bonds, and said bonds themselves, are fully paid."
On the 21st of December, 1885, the plaintiff filed a petition

ROSENBAITH

v. BAUER.

Opinion of the Court.

for the removal of this latter suit into the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of California, on the ground of
diversity of citizenship in the parties. The state court made
an order of removal. The defendant made a motion in the
Federal court to remand the case to the state court on the
ground of want of jurisdiction by the Federal court "of the
subject-matter contained in the complaint." On the 24th of
May, 1886, the court made an order granting the motion, and
the plaintiff has brought a writ of error to review that order.
The Circuit Court, in remanding the causes, 28 Fed. Rep.
223, proceeded on these grounds: (1) That it had always been
held by this court that the Circuit Courts had no jurisdiction
to award a mandarausexcept as ancillary to some other proceeding establishing a demand, and reducing it to judgmbnt,
the mand4amnus being in the nature of process for executing the
judgment. (2) That a proceeding for a mandamus was not a
suit of a civil nature, within the meaning of any provision of
the act of March 3, 1875, c. 137, 18 Stat. 470, and was not
removable under it.
Prior to the act of 1875, it was well settled that the Circuit
Courts had no jurisdiction to issue a writ of mandarmus in a
case like the present.
In feontire v. Wood, in 1813, 7 Cranch, 504, it was held
that a Circuit Court had no power to issue a manda us to the
register cf'a land office of the United States, commanding him
to grant a final certificate of purchase to the plaintiff for lands
to which he supposed himself entitled under the laws of the
United States. In that case, the plaintiff's alleged-right to a
certificate of purchase *as claimed under the laws of the United
States, but this court, speaking by Mr. Justice Johnson, said,
that the power of the Circuit Courts to issue the writ was confined by § 14 of the Judiciary Act of 1789, 1 Stat. 81, to those
cases in which it might be necessary to the exercise of their
jurisdiction. This provision of § 14 appears now in § 716 of
the Revised Statutes in these words: "SEc. 716. The Supreme
Court and the Circuit and District Courts shall have power to
issue writs- of eirefaeias. They shall also have power to issue
all writs not specifically provided for by statute, which may be

OCTOBER TERAI, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

necessary for the exercise of their respective jurisdictions, and
agreeable to the usages and principles of law."
In .A[cClung v. Silliman, in 1821, 6 Wheat. 5-a8, a mandamvs
was applied for in a Circuit Court of the United States to compel the register of a land office of the United States to issue
papers to show the preemptive interest of the plaintiff in certain land.. The writ was refused. In, this court, the case was
sought to be distinguished from folIntire v. Food, on the
ground that the parties were citizens of different states. But
the court, speaking again by Mr. Justice Johnson, said that no
just inference was to be drawn from the decision in 3folhtire
v. Wood, in favor of a case'in which the Circuit Court was
vested with jurisdiction by citizenship under § 11 of the act of
1789. And then, in answer to the argument, that, as the parties were citizens, of different states, and competent to sue
under § 11, the Circuit Court was, by § 14, vested with power
to issue the writ as one "necessary for the exercise of its jurisdiction," the court said: "It cannot-be denied that the exercise
of this power is necessary to the exercise of jurisdiction in the
court below: but why is it necessary? Not because that court
possesses jurisdiction, but because it does not possessit. It
must exercise this power and compel the emanation of the
legal document, or the execution of the legal act by the register
of the land office, or the party cannot sue. The 14th section
of the act under consideration could only have been .intended
to Vest the power now contended for in cases where the jurisdiction already exists, and not where it is to be courted or
acquired by means of the writ proposed to be sued out."
Consistently with the views in those cases, this court, in
Biggs v. Johnson County, in 1867, 6 Wall. 166, held that a
Circuit Court had power to issue a mandamus to officers of a
county, commanding .them to levy a tax to pay a judgment
refidered in that court against the county for interest on bonds
issued by the county, where a statute of the state, under
which the bonds were issued, had made such levy obligatory
on the county. This ruling has been repeatedly followed
since, and rests on the view that the issue of the mandamvuis
is an a-ward of execution on the judgnent, and is a proceeding

ROSENBAUM v. BAUER.
. Opinion of the Court.

necessary to complete tLe jurisdiction exercised by rendering
the judgment.
In many cases adjudged in-this" court since [Icntire v.
Wood, that ease has been referred to as settling the law on
the point to which it relates; as in The &creta?&/ v. ioGarrahan, 9 Wall. 298, 311; Bath County v. Amy, 13 Wall. '244;
and Teize v. The Levee Commissioners, 19 Wall. 655.
In Bath County v. Amy, in 1871, (ubi supra,) the holder of
bonds issued by a county ii. Kentucky applied to the Circuit
Court of the United States for a mandamus to compel the
county court to levy a tax to pay the interest on the bonds, on
the ground that a statute of the state required the county
court to do so. No judgment had been obtained for the interest. In Kentucky such a proceeding could have been mamtained in a court of the state, without a prior judgment, and
would have been there treated as a suit of a civil nature at common law, and not a mere incident to another suit. The Circuit Court awarded the mandamus, but this court reversed the
judgment, holding that it was doubtful whether the writ of
mandamum was intended to be embraced in the grant of power
in the 11th section of the Judiciary Act of 1789, to the Circuit
Courts, to take cognizance of suits of a civil nature, at common law, where the diversity of- citizenship there specified
existed; but that the special provision of the 14th section of
the act, while, no doubt, including mandamus under the term
"other writs," indicated that the power to grant that writ
generally was not understood to be covered by the 11th section. Citing the prior cases, the court said: "The -writ cannot
be used to confer a jurisdiction which the Circuit Court would
not have without it. It is authorized only when ancillary to
a jurisdiction already acquired."
The same doctrine was applied, in G,'alia v. -Norton, in
1872, 15 Wall. 427, where a Circuit Court of the United
States had affirmed the action of a District Court in granting
a mnan mw9 to compel a state auditor to issue certificates as
to the amount of illegal taxes paid by the applicant, the issuing of such certificates being provided for by a statute of the
state. This court held that neither the Circuit Court nor the
District Court had jurisdiction to issue the writ.

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

The same principles have been asserted by this court in
cases arising since the act of March 3, 1875 ; as in Cobuty of
Greene v. -Daniel,102 U. S. 187, 195; in United States v.
Schurz, 102 U. S. 378, 393 ; in -Davenportv. County of Dodge,
105 U. S. 237, 242, 24a; a.'d in Iouisiana v. Jumel, 107 U.
S. 711, 727.

]But now-it is contended for the plaintiff in error that the
Circuit Court can obtain jurisdiction of these cases by their
removal under § 2 of the act of 1875. It was evidently
though' - that the Circuit Court would have 4 o original cognizance of them, if commenced in that court, for they were not
brought in that court, although in the petition for removal in
each proceeding the plaintiff states that he w;as a cilizen of
New York when it was commenced, and in the petition for
removal in the first-proceeding he states that Bauer was at its
commencement a citizen of California, the defendant in the
second proceeding being, when it was brought, a municipal
corporation of California. The proceedings were evidently
instituted with the purpose of removing them,
for the petitions
;I
for removal were severally filed by the plaintiff three days andten- days after process was served on the defendant, and nothing was done in the state court but to file a complaint, and t6
serve a summons, and to take proceedings for a removal.
To maintain the jurisdiction by removal, it is contended
that that jurisdiction does not depend on the original jurisdiction of the Circuit Court; that the former may exist without
the latter; and that in the present case it does exist.
The only possible ground of jurisdiction in the present
cases, is diversity of citizenship; for the right of action claimed
does not arise under the Constitution or a law or treaty of the
United States. It exists, if at all, under a statute of the state.
The state is not alleged to have passed any law imparing the
obligation of any contract of which the plaintiff claims the
benefit, or to have deprived him of any right secured to him
by the Constitution of the United States. In respect to jurisdiction by citizenship, as applicable to this case, § 1 of the act
of 1875, in regard to original jurisdiction, and § 2, in regard to
jurisdiction by removal, describe the subject-matter of the suit

ROSENBAWU

V. .BAUER.

Opinion of the Court.

in terms which are the same legally. In § 1, the suit of which
"original cognizance" is given is a suit "of a civil nature, at
commoAh law or in equity," where the matter in dispute exceeds, exclusive of costs, the sum or value of $500, and "in
which there shall be a controversy between citizens of different
states." In § 2 the language is identical, except that the suit
is to be a suit "of a .civil nature, at aw or in equity." In
§ 11 of the act of 1789,-the original cognizance given to the
Circuit Courts was of "all suits of a civil nature, at common
law or in eqiiit ," where tha -matter in dispute exceeds, exclusive of costs, the sum or valtle of $500, and "the suit is
between a citizen of the state where the suit is brought and
a citizen of another state." In § 12 of that act, jurisdiction
by removal was given to the Circuit Courts of a like suit.
.Now, if, as has always been held,:" original cognizance," -under
§ 11 of the act of 1789, did not exist, of proceedings Jike those
before us, founded on citizenship, it must necessarily follow
that original cognizance cannot exist, under § 1 of the act of
1875, of such a proceeding, founded on citizenship. If so, it is
impossible to see how, with legally identical language in § 2
with that in § 1, jurisdiction by removal can exist, under § 2
of the act of 1875, of proceedings like those before us, founded
on citizenship. This view is entirely aside from the principle
which has controlled in some cases, where a restriction as to
original jurisdiction, contained in other provisions of § 11 of
the hct of 1789, did not exist in § 12 of that act, in regard to
jurisdiction by removal, or in other removal statutes. Of that
character was the restriction in § 11 on the right of an assignee
of a chose in action to sue if the suit could not have been
prosecuted in the court had the assignment not been made;
as illustrated by the cases cited by the plaintiff in error, of
City of L1exington v. Butler, 14 Wall. 28 , and Clafin v. ConmonvwealtA Ins. Co., 110 U. S. 81.
In Gaines v. Fuentes,92 U. S. 10, an apphcation for removal
was sustained under the local prejudice act of MIarch 2, 1867,
14 Stat. 558, of a suit to annul a will, on the ground that the
act, in authorizing the" removal, invested the Federal court by
that fact with all needed jurisdiction to adjudicate the case.

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

But that case was not one of a mandamus, to which the implied restriction of the statute in respect to that writ was
applicable. The same remark may be made as to Bodm Cornl~any v. Patterson,98 U. S. 403, where the removed proceeding was one to condemn lands for the use of a boom company;
and as to Hess v. Reynolds, 113 U. S. 73, where the removal
was of a proceeding in a Probate Court to obtain payment of
a claim against the estate of a deceased person; and as to
B iven v. IYew England Screw Co., 3 Blatchford, 111, and
Barney v. Globe fank, 5 Blatchford, 107, where foreign corporations successfully maintained jurisdiction by removal, in
ordinary suits, although they could not have been compulsorily
brought into the Circuit Court, by original process.
As this court, while §§ 11 and 12 of the act of 1789 were in
force, and § 14 of that act was also in force, always held, even
where the requisite diversity of citizenship existed, that the
restriction of § 14 operated to prevent original cognizance by
a Circuit Court, under § 11, of a proceeding by mandamus
not necessary for the exercise of a jurisdiction which had
previously otherwise attached, so, with §§ 1 and 2 of the act -of
1875 in force at the same time with § 716 of the Revised
Statutes, the restriction of § 716 must operate to prevent cognizance by removal, by a Circuit Court, under § 2 of the act
of 1875, even where the requisite diversity of citizenship exists,
of a like proceeding by mandamus. As was said by this court,
speaking by Mr. Justice Miller, in Hess v. Pieynolds, 113 U. S.
73, 79, 80, the language of the repealing clause of the act of
18M, is, "that all acts and parts of acts in conflict with the
provisions of this act are hereby repealed," and the statute to
be repealed must be in conflict with the act of 1875, or that
effect does not follow. There is nothing in § 2, or any other
part of the ac of 1875, which is in conflict with, or has the
effect to abolish, the restriction of § 716, just as there was
nothing in § 11 or § 12, or any other part of the act of 1789,
which was in conflict with, or had the effect to abolish, the
restriction of § 14 of that act.
These cases fall directly within the provision of § 5 of the
act of 1875, that if, in any suit removed from a state court

ROSENBAUM v. BAUER.
Dissenting Opinion: Bradley, J., Harlan, 5., Matthews, 5.

to a Circuit Court of the United States, it shall appear to the
satisfaction of said Circuit Court, at any time after such suit
has been brought or removed thereto, that such suit does not
really and substantially involve a dispute or controversy properly "within the jurisdiction" of said Circuit Court, the said
Circuit Court shall proceed no further therein, but shall dismiss the suit or remand it to the court from which it was
removed, as justice may require. What is meant by the expression "within the jurisdiction"? It means, within the judicial
cognizance - within the capacity to determine the merits of
the dispute or controversy, and to grant 'therelief asked for.
The provision does not give countenance to the idea that the
suit or proceeding is to be retained in the Circuit Court till
brought to a formal adjudication on the merits, when, at that
ultimate stage, the court must say that the case is not within
its jutisdiction, after the party successfully challenging the juris.
diction has been harassed by expense and injured by delay.
But it means what it says, that the dismissal or remanding
"shall" be made whenever, "at any time" after the suit is
brought or removed to the Circuit Court, it shall appear to the
satisfaction of that court that there is, really and substantially,
no dispute or controversy of which it has jurisdiction, in the
sense above pointed out; the right to have a review by this
court of the order dismissing or remanding the suit. being
given to the aggrieved party at once, instead of his being
compelled to await the making of such an order at the end
of a full and formal hearing or trial,. on issues and, proofs, on
the merits alleged on either side.
Orders affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY,

HARLAN and

AIR.

Mn. JUsTcE I

with whom concurred MR.

JUSTICE

Jusrxcn ] AT'nws, dissenting.

nI&
A and MR.-JUSTIOE ATWHEws agree with

me in dissenting from the judgment of the court in this case.
It is a constitutional right of the citizens .of the several
states having controversies with the citizens of other states, to
have a national forum in which such controversies may be liti-

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Dissenting Opinion: Bradley, J., Harlan, J., Matthews, .

gated. It was one of the declared purposes of the Constitution,
that the judicial power of the United States should extend to
certain cases enumerated, one of which was, "to controversies
between citizens of different states ;" and it was declared that
this power should be vested in one Supreme Court, and in such
inferior courts as the Congress might from time to time ordain
and establish; thus making it the duty of Congress to establish
such tribunals. If Congress fails in this constitutional duty,
the citizens have no redress but the ballot-box. But Congress
has not failed. It has established the requisite tribtmals, and
has invested them with the powers necessary to give the citizens their constitutional rights. Or, if it has failed in any
respect, either with regard to persons or causes, we think it
has not failed in, respect to the class of cases to which the
present belong.
Congress, by the act of March 3, 1875, passed to determine
the jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts, has declared that they
shall have original cognizance, concurrent with the courts of
the several states, amongst other things, of all suits of a civil
nature at common law or in equity, involving over five hundred
dollars, in which there shall be a controversy between citizens
of different states; and that any such suit brought in any state
.court may be removed by. either party into the Circuit Court
for the proper district. This jurisdiction should bb liberally
construed so as to give full effect, as far as may be, to the constitutional right, as presumably within the intent of Congress.
The terms "suite at connon law and in equity," or "suits at
lw and in equity" (which is the same thing), are, in themselves, of the most general character and of the broadest signification; and this court ought not, by its decisions, to restrict
their application. Ii is not meant by the expression "suits at
common law," to confine tue jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts
to the old technical actions of trespass, trover, trespass on the
cases debt, detinue, assumpsit, &c., but it extends to and includes
any form of proceeding of a civil nature in which a legal right
cognizable by the courts of common law is sought to be judicially enforced, by whatever name, under the new-fangled
nomenclature adopted by the different states, the proceeding

ROSENBAUM v. BAUER.
Dissenting Opinion: Bradley, J., Harlan, 3.; Matthews, J.

may be called. Suits at law arid equity include every form of
proceeding except those peculiar to Admiralty, Ecclesiastical
or Probate and Military jurisdictions.. And even. in matters
savoring of Ecclesiastical process, after an issue has been formed
between definite parties, we have held that the controversy "
came under the head of a suit at law. Gaines v. Fuentes, 92
U. S. 10, 17; Hess v. Reynolds, 113 U. S. 73. The broad terms
used in the law were purposely employed, as it seems to, us, to
make the. jurisdiction complete to the full extent which the
Constitution intended it should have. It is true, that. n one or
two cases we have intimated a distinction between 6he extent
of jurisdiction given in the first and that given ir the second
sections of the act of 1875 ; but that distinction, V4well founded,
does not affect the present cases, since they arise under the
second section, which has been supposed to be the broader of
the two, and, in any event, the grbund of distinction is not here
involved.
Now, a mandamus, which was originally -a prerogative writ
only, has come to be in many cases, and in most states, a private suit, brought for the purpose of enforcing a private right.
This is true in the two cases now before us. The ppellant
has a money demand against the city and county of San YFrancisco, and is seeking to collect it in the usual way in which such'
demands are collectible by the law of procedure of California.
The mandamus which he seeks is the mere process for commencing his action, and is a proper process suited to his case.
The city and county of San Francisco can set up any defences
to the action in this form which it could do in the ordinatry
action of debt or upon contract. It is essentially a civil suit
at law, no matter by what name it is called,- certainly as
much so as were the proceedings in Gaines v. Fuentes, Ress v.
Reynolds, already cited, and in Boom Company v. Patterson,
98 U. S. 403, 404, where there was an issue to ascertain the
value of property taken by virtue of eminent domain. In Davies
v. Oorbin, 112 U. S. 36, we sustained a writ of error from this
court to the Circuit Court on a judgment in a proceeding for
mandamus to carry into effect a judgment for a debt. The
Chief Justice there said: "While the writ of mandamus, in

462

OCTOBEi TERM, 1886.
Dissenting Opinion: Bradley, J., Harlan, J., Matthews, J.

cases like this, partakes of the nature of an execution to enforce
the collection of a judgment, it can only be got by instituting
an independent suit for that purpose. There must be, first, a
showing by the relator in support of his right to the writ; and,
second, process to bring in.the adverse party, whose action is
.to be coerced, to show cause, if he can, against it. If he 'appears and presents a defence, the showings of the parties make
up the pleadings in the cause, and- any issue of law or fact that
may be raised must be judicially determined by the court before
the writ can go out. Such a determination is, under the circumstances, a judgment in a civil action brought to secure a
right, that is to say, process to enforce a judgment.
Such a judgment is, in our opinion, a final judgment in a civil
action, within the meaning of that term as used in the statutes
regulating writs of error to this court."
In the jurisprudence of California, it has frequently been
held that a mandamus is a civil action. It is only necessary to
refer to the cases to show that this is a point beyond all dispute.
Pef-ry v. Ames, 26 Cal. 372; Cariagav. Dryden, 30 Cal. 244,
246; Courtwrightv. -ear River Xining Co., 30 Cal. 573, 583;
_]nowks v. Teates, 31 Cal. 90 ; PeopZle v. -KYe County, 45 Cal.
679; People v. Thompson, 66 Cal. 398.
But it Is urged that the power given to the Circuit Courts of
the United States to issue writs of mandamus is limited by
act of Congress to ,certain special cases, namely, only where
they may be necessary for the exercise of their ordinary jurisdiction, Rev. Stat., § 716, and that, according to the decisions of
this court, in suits for the collection of money, the writ can only
be used as ancilary to an execution after a judgment has been
obtained in an ordinary suit. It is sufficient to say that all of
these decisions, except two, .relate to the law as it was before
the passage of the act of 1875. That act, as we have seen, is
expressed in general terms without any qualification as to the
writs or process which shall be employed, and repeals any
restraining effect of § 716 of the Revised Statutes if in conflict
with it. The two cases to which we have referred as decided
since the act are County of Greene v. Danie, 102 U. S. 18,
and Davenport v. County of Dode, 105 U. S. 237. But the

ROSENBAUM

v. BAUER.

463"

Dissenting Opinion: Bradley, J., Harlan, J., Matthews, J.

point decided in these cases was, that, although the state law
gave the remedy of mandamus to compel the levy of taxes for
the payment of bonds, an ordinary action might nevertheless
be brought on the bonds for the purpose of obtaining a judgment. They do not decide, whatever dieta may appear to have
been made, that mandamus might not have been brought originally.
The inference drawn from § '716, Rev. Stat., is, that as it grants
power to this court and the Circuit Courts "to issue all writs
not specifically provided for by statute, which may be necessary for the exercise of their respective jurisdictions and agreeable to the usages and principles of law," (which is rightly
supposed to include the writ of mandamus,) it must be construed as denying the power to issue that writ in any other
case. This conclusion might be admissible if it is restrained
to the instance of the particular writ of mandamus which alone
was in contemplation; that is, the prerogative writ of mandamus as known to the practice of the King's Bench in England.
The object of this section of the statute was to give the courts
of the United States the power to issue such a writ when necessary in the exercise of a jurisdiction in which the use of such
a writ was conformable to law. But the section had no reference to mandamus as a form of civil action, as it has become
in modern times, having a definite purpose and scope, and as
distinct in its use, for the purpose of enforcing private rights
of a particular description, as are the forms of actions known
to the cqmmon law, such as assumpsit, debt, or trespass.
Viewed as a civil action, authorized by the laws of the state
in which the suit is brought,,the jurisdiction of the CircuitCovrts is established by § 1 of the act of 1815, which embraces
"9 '1suits of a civil nature at common law or in equity, where
the matter in dispute exceeds, exclusive of costs, the stun or
value of five hundred dollars,

.

.

in which there shall be

a controversy between citizens of different states." If there
be such a suit, in which, by the law of the state, the form of
proceeding is required to be in mandamus, § 914, Rev. Stat.,
applies, which requires that "the practice, pleadings, and
forms and modes of proceeding in civil cases, other than equity

OCTOBER TERAI,

1886.

Syllabus.

and admiralty cases, in the circuit and district courts, shall
conform, as near as may be, to the practice, pleadings, and
forms and modes of proceeding existing at the time in like
causes in the courts of record of the state within which such
circuit or district courts are held, any rule of court to the contrary notwithstanding." Effect may be given in the present
case to this-provision of the statute, without running counter
to § 716. The fallacy of the argument against the jurisdiction
of the Circuit Court, in such cases, is in construing § 716 as an
exception out of the general grant of jurisdiction to that court
over all suits in which the controversy is between citizens of
different states; whereas it is a general grant of power to issue
all writs necessary to the exercise of their jurisdiction-a
power which would probably have been implied without an,
express grant.
In our judgment, the cases ought not to have been remanded,
and that the judgments of the Circuit Court remanding the
same should, be reversed.

IERRON v. DATER.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE' UNITED

STATES FOR THE

WESTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
Argued January 19, 20, 1887.- Decided March 7, 1887.

In Pennsylvania a warrant and survey, and payment of the purchase money,
confer a legal estate as against all but the Commonwealth, together with
a legal right of en-,ey which will support ejectment; and this action of
ejectment may be maintained by the owner who paid the purchase money,
without any conveyance from the person in whose name the ."pplication
was made and the warrant issued.
The plaintiff in an action of ejectment in Pennsylvania, to prove title, offered
in evidence certified copies of (1) an application numbered 12,969, in the
names of six separate persons for six geparate tracts of four hundred
acres each, adjoining lands of A; (2) of old purchase voucher, dated
November 26, 1793, also numbered 12,969, in the same names, with like
quantities of land also adjoining lands of A; (3) of old purchase blotter
dated June 14, 1794, also numbered 12,969, at the side of which were

