OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Syllabus.

The objection that the officer's certificate does not state
that she was informed of the contents of the deed - if it 'have
any force whatever under the statute of 1847, permitting the
non.-resident Jeme covert to acknowledge her deeds as if she
weie unmarried- is not well taken. The certificate shows
that she executed the deed freely and without force or compulsioi from the husband or from any one 'else, "fully understanding the contents" thereof. Besides, this defect, if it be
one, is of the kind that was cured by the act of 1853, which
only required it to appear, in substance, as it does 'here, that
the deed was executed freely and voluntarily, and, in the case
of "a married woman, that she knew its contents and was
examined separately and apart from her husband. She must
have known, if, as certified, she fully understood the contents
of ihe deed.
The judgment below was right, and is
A ffrmed.

GIIMER v. STONE.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE VTITED

STATES

FOR

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
Submitted December 20, 1886.-Decided March 7, 188T.

A, a resident in Irish Grove, Illinois, died there, leaving a will by which,
after bequeathing his library to the Presbyterian church of Irish Grove,
and $500 for, the erection of another Presbyterian church in Illinois, and
50 to be paid on the minister's salary of the Presbyterian church of
Irish Grove for 1884, and some other bequests, he bequeathed and devised
the remaindeeS'of his estate "to be equally divided between the board of
foreign and tlhe board of home missions." The Presbyterian Church in the
United States of America has a corporate "Board of Foreign "Missions"
and a corporate "Board of Home Missions;" but it was agreed by counsel
that several other religious bodies in the United States have similar organizations, for the same purposes. Held, that there was a latent ambiguity
in the will respecting the object of the residuary gift, which ambiguity
could be removed by extrinsic evidence; and that the evidence introduced on that Ipoint, taken in connection with the other bequests in the
will for the benefit of Presbyterian churches, showed that the testator,

GILMER v. STONE.
Argument for Appellee.
in making the residuary gift, had in his mind the Board of Foreign Missions and the Board of Home Missions of the Presbyterian Church. of
the United States of America, of which he was a member and an officer.
The restriction upon the right of a congregation, formed for religious .purposes, to receive "land not exceeding in quantity .

.

. ten acres," which

is imposed by § 42 of the act of the legislature of Illinois of April 18, 1872,
applies to congregations incorporated for the object named in § 35 of
that act, viz.: "the purpose of religious worship;" and does not affect
foreigu benevolent or missionary societies incorporated either with the
objects named in the i1corporation of the Board of Foreign Missions of
the Presbyterian Church in the United States, or with the objects named
in the incorporation of the Board of Home Missions of that church,
although both organizations are important agencies in the general religious work of that church
Christian Union v. Yount, 101 U. S. 352, commented upon; explained, and
affirmed.

BILL in equity to set aside a will and its probate for uncertainty so far as they related to the residuary devise and
bequest. Decree, dismissing the bill, from which plaintiff
appealed. The case is stated in the opinion of the court.

-Yr. 1). T. Littler, Mr,. 1. A. Wtim, and Mlrk.1?. E. lewis
for appellant cited: 1 Jarman on Wills, Randolph & Talcott
ed. 403 n. 3, 404 n.; Story Eq. Jur. §§ 1158, 1183; Perry on
Trusts, § 116, 713; Bridges v. Pleasants,4 iredell Eq. 26 ;1
Fontain v. Ravenel, 17 How. 369; W7 eeler v. Smith, 9 How.
55, 79; Taylor v. - ), 2 Bradwell, 368; Allen's Executors v.
Allen, 18 How. 385 ; 2unyan v. .Coster, 14 Pet. 122; Lathrop
v. Commercial Bank, 8 Dana, 114; Laws of Illinois, 1859, p.
20, Gross. Rev. 124; Rev. Stat. Ill. 1845, c. 35, § 44; St. Peter's
Boman Catholl Congregation v. Germain, 104 Ill. 440; Laws
Illinois, 1872, c. 32, § 42; Stevens v. P-att,101 Ill. 206.
X'. darhes Jfe Cartney for appellee cited: 2 Phill. Ev. 145756; Wigram Extrane6us Ev. 118, 138; 1 Jarman on Wills, c.
13 and note; Ziig v. Ackerman, 2 Black, 408; Bradley v.
Bees, 113 Ill. 327; Hoeuser v. Harris,42 Ill. 425; Rinckley v.
Thatcher, 139 Mass. 477; Allen's Executors v. Allen, 18 How.
385; Christian Union v. Yount, 101 U. S. 352; St. Peter's _oman
Catholic Congregation v. Germain, 104 Ill. 440; Vidal v.

I S.

C. 44 Am. Dec. 94.

OCTOBER TERU, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

Girard, 2 How. 121; .Hayward.v. Da'idson, 41 Ind. 212;
-De Camp v. Dobbins, 29 N. J. Eq. (9 Stewart) .36; -aker v.
iVef, 73Ind. 68; Alexander v. Tolleston Club, 110 Ill. 65.
MA. JusTIcE HI.ALAN delivered the opinion of the court.
Robert Gilmer, late of Irish Grove, Menard County, Illinois,
died December 31, 1883, having made a last will by which he
disposed of his entire estate, consisting of about four thousand
dollars in personal property, and from three to. four hundred
acres of land in that state. The eleventh clause of the will is
in these Words: "' I also, after paying all debts and claims
against my estate, b6queath and devise the remainder of my
estate to be equally divided between the board of foreign and
the board of home missions." The object, of the present suit
is to obtain a decree declaring that clause to be void, and directing the estate of the testator, after meeting the debts and the
bequests contained in other clauses to be paid to the complainant; the uncle and only heir-at-law of the decedent.
The "Board of Foreign Missions of the Presbyterian' Church
in the United 'States of America" and the "Board of Home
kissions of the Presbyterian Church in the United States of
America" - corporations created under the laws of New York
- severally appeared, were made defendants, and filed answers,
each claiming the right to share in the devis'e ii the eleventh
clause of the will. The executors admit the justice of these
claims, but ask the direction of the court in the premises. To
these answers a general replication was filed; and, the cause
having been heard upon the pleadings and proofs, the bill was
dismissed with costs.
It is agreed in the case that the Baptist, Methodist, Episcopal and other churches, like the Presbyterian Church in the
United States, of America, have boards of home and foreign
missions; *consequently, it is contended, the eleventh clause of
the will is void for uncertainty as to the donee and the purposes
of the gift. In this view we do not concur. It is undoubtedly
the rule, in respect to the testamentary disposition of property,
real and personal, that uncertainty either as to the subject or
object of a devise will be fatal to its validity. But that rule lias

GILMER v., . STONE.

589"

Opinion of the Court.

no application here; for, if there were no other facts in the case
than that there are numerous boards which may be generally
described by the words, the "board of foreign missions," and
"the board of home missions," the devise in the eleventh clause
would not fail. With respect to charities, gifts may be good
which, with respect to individuals, would be void; "and where
there are two charities of the same name the legacy will be
divided between them, if it cannot be ascertained which was
the intended object." 1 Jarman on Wills, 376. Can it be
ascertained by competent evidence which of these various
boards were the objects of the testator's bounty?
In the fourth clause of the will, the testator bequeathed his
library to the Presbyterian church of Irish Grove; in the
ninth, five hundred dollars toward the -erection of a Prsbyterian church in Greenview, Illinois, provided the same was
built within two years from the date of the will; otherwise,
the money should revert to his estate; and in the tenth, he
bequeathed fifty dollars to be paid on the minister's salary of
the Presbyterian church of Irish Grove for the year 1S84.
And ther was extrinsic evidence to the.following effect.:
That the testator had been for many. years a member and
ruling elder of the Irish Grove Presbyterian Church, one of
the local congregations of the Presbyterian Church in the
United States of America; that collections were annually
taken ,upin that congregation for the various boards of that
church, including its Boards of Foreign and Home Missions;,
that while. it was announced from the pulpit that collections
would be taken for the Board of Foreign Missions or the
Board of Home Missions, without, in words, naming the Presbyterian Church, all such collectlons, with the knowledge and
asseni of the church session, of which the testator was an active
and zealous member, were, witholt exception, sent to the officers of the Presbyterian Boards of Foreign .and Homb Missions
in New York City, and regular reports thereof made to the.
session; that the testator took especial interest in the work of
those particular boards and uniformly contributed thereto; and
that he did not, so far as his pastor or associates in the church
session lnew, make contributions to the societies of any-other

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court

church, except to the Bible Society, which was sustaied by
several religious organizations.
Of the competency of this evidence there can be no doubt.
The purpose of it was to place the court, as far as possible, in
the situation in which the testator stood, and thus bring the
words employed by him into contact with the circumstances
attending the execution of the will. Such proof does not con-tra'dict the terms of that instrument, nor tend to wrest the
words of the testator from their natural opeiation. It serves
only to identify ,the institutions described by him as "the
board of foreign and the board of home missions;" and thus
the court is enabled to avail itself of the light which the circuinstances, in which the testator was placed at the time he
made the will, would throw upon his intention. "The law is
not so unrgasonable," says Mr. Wigram, "as to deny to the
reader, of an instrument the s-ame light which the writer
enjoyed." Wigram on Wills, 2d Amer. ed. 161. The proof
made a case of latent ambiguity. Such, an.ambiguity may
arise, "either when it names a person as the object of a gift
or a thing.as the subject of it, and there are two persons or
things that answer such name or description; or, secondly, it
may arise when the will contains a misdescription of the object
or subject." Patch v. White, 117 U..S.-210, 217. In the same
case it was observed that, "as a latent ambiguity is only disclosed by extrinsic evidence, it may be removed by extrinsic.
evidence." See, also, All~e's Executors v. Allen, 1S How. 385,
393; Hinckley v. Thatcher, 139 Mass. 477; Breckenr'idge v.
.Duncan, 2 A. K. Maxsh. (Ky.) 50, 51;1 .torgan v. Burrows,45
Wis. 211, 217; Brewster v. . Yc Call, 15 Conn. 273; Tilton v.
Society, 61 I. ]H. 377, 382; 1 Jarman on Wills, 423, 431; 1
Greenl. Ev. § 290.
Construing, then, the will with reference to the extrinsic
evidence of the uniform relations of the, testator to the subject
of foreign and home missions, and to certain societies engaged
inthat kind of work, it is not to be doubted that, in the eleventh
clause, he had in mind the Boards of Foreign and Home Missions
1 S. C. 12 Am. Dec. 859.

GrL ER v. STONE.
Opinion of the Court.

of the general religious society or organization of which he
was a member and officer. The words of the will very well
apply to such an object, and, therefore, in so interpreting its
provisions,.no violence is done to the language employed by
the testator.
It is, also, contended that the Boards of Foreign and Home
Missions of the Presbyterian Church in the United States of
America are foreign religious societies, of foreign societies
organized for religious purposes, and, as such, 6annot, under
the laws of Illinois, tak6 exceeding ten acres of land each, and
that the devise in the eleventh cause, being of more than three
hundred acres'of land jointly, is void and must fail.
In the- case of Christian Union v. Yount, 101 U. S. 352,
360, decided in 1879,' we considerd the 4uestion whether a
conveyance made in 1870, by a citizen of Illinois, of real estate
there situated, of the value of $10,006, to the American and
Foreign Christian tUnion, a New York corporation, was void
under the laws ot Illinois -the object of that corporation
being, "by missions, colportage, the press, and other appropriate agencies, to diffuse and promote the principles of religious liberty and a pure evangelical Christianity, both at home
and abroad, wherever a corrupt Christianity exists." The
validity of the conveyance was sustained upon the ground
that the law of Illinois, as it existed in 1870, did not preclude
a benevolent or missionary corporation of another state, being
thereunto authorized by its own charter, from taking title to
real estate within her limits, by purchase, gift, devise, or in
aiiy other manne'r.
It is, however, insisted that the force'of that decisioni is,
weakened, if not destroyed, by the failure of the. court to refer
to § 44 of c. 24 of the ReVised Statutes of '1845, making
it lawful for "the members of any society or -congregation,"
theretofore formed or thereafter to be formed, "for purposes
of religious worship," to "receive by gift, devise or purchase,
a quantity of land not exceeding ten acres, and to erect or
build thereon such houses and building as they may deem
necessary for the purposes aforesaid, and to make such other
use of the land and make such other improvements thereon as

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

may be deemed necessary for the comfort and convenience of
such society or congregation." Rev. Stat. ill. 1845, p. 120.
Counsel overlook the fact that the court, in Chiristian Union
v. Foant, referred incidentally, and as indicating the general
course of legislation in Illinois, to the like provision in -the,act
of 1872. No comment was made upon that provision, for the
reason that it had no application to the case; there being no
claim, as there could not well have been, that the American
and F.6reign Christian Union was, within the meaning of the
statute, a society or congregation "for purposes of religious
worship."
In St. Peter's Roman CathoZlic Congregation v. Germain,
104 Ill..440, the Supreme Court of the state held that the
fore'going section of the act of 18K5 was niot repealed by the
act of March 8, 1869, providing "for the holding of Roman
Catholic' churches, cemeteries and other property," but was
displaced by the 42d section of the act of April 18, 1872,
(c. 32 of the Revision of 1874,) which last section, however,
the court said, was substantially the same as the 44th section
of the act of 1845, and to be regarded as, in effect, merely
continuing the latter in force.
We have, therefore, to inquire whether the devise in question is void under the act of April 18, 1872. That act makes
provision for the formation of corporations for any lawful

purpose, except, banking, insurance, real estate brokerage, the
business df loaning money, and the operation of railroads
other than horse and dummy railroads.

It also makes provis-

ion for the incorporation of societies, cprporations, and associations for any lawful purpose, not for pecuniary profit, "capable
of taking, purchasing, holding and disposing of real and
personal estate for purposes of their organization." Secs. 29, 31:
The act proceeds:
"SEc. 35. Theforegoing provisions shall not apply to any
religious corporition; but any church, congregation or so(iety
formed for the purpose of religious worship, may become
incorporated in the manner following, to wit: . . .
"SEc. 41.*'Up'on the incorporation of any congregation,
church or society, all real and personal Property held by any

GILMER v. STONE.
Opinion of the Court.

person or trustees for the use of the members thereof, shall
immediately vest in such corporation and be subject to its
control, and may be used, mortgaged, sold and conveyed the
same as if it had been conveyed to such corporation by deed;
but no such conveyance or mortgage shall be made so as to
hffect or. destroy the intent or effect of any grant, devise or
donation that may be made to such person or trustee for the
use of such congregation, church or society.
"SEC. 42. Any corporation that may be formed for religious purposes under this act or under any law of thisstate for
the incorporation of religious societies, may receive by,gift,
devise or purchase, land not exceeding in quantity (including
that already held -by such corporation) ten acres, and. may
erect or build thereon such houses, buildings or other improvements as it may deem necessary for the convenience and comfort of such congregation, church or society, and may lay out
and maintain thereon a burying ground; but no such property.
shall be used except in the manner expressed in the gift, grant
or devise, or, if no use or trust is so expressed, except for the
benefit of the congregation, church or society for which it
was intended."
The 45th section permits any congregation, church, or
society incorporated under the act, to receive by grant, devise
or bequest, real estate, not exceeding forty acres, for the purpose of holding camp-meetings. Rev. Stat. 1874, pp. 292, 29.3:'
Assuming for the purposes of this case only, that a churcb,
congregation, or society formed under the laws of another
state, for purposes of religious worship in that state, could not
lawfully receive by gift, devise or purchase, land in Illinois,.
in excess of the quantity which "may be received in either of
those modes by a similar corporation formed under the laws
of']llinois, we are satisfied that the sections last quoted from
the act of 1872 do not embrace corporationsof the class to
which these Boards of Foreign and, Home Missions belong.
The Board of Foreign Missions of the Presbyterian Ohurch
in the United States of America was formed "for the purpose
of establishing and conducting Christian missions among the
unevangelized or pagan nations and the general diffusion
vol.. cxx-38

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

of Christianity."

Its power to hold real or personal estate

restricted to such quantity as will produce
in New York is,
an annual income not exceeding $20,000. 'The object of the
Board of Home Missions of that church is "to assist in sustaining the preaching of the Gospel'in feeble churches and
congregations in connection with the Presbyterian Church
in the United States, and generally to superintend the whole
of home missions in the behalf of such church as the General
Assembly shall, froni tim6 to time, direct; and also to receive,.
take charge 6f, and disburse all property and funds which, at
any time, and from time to time, may be intrusted to said
church 'or said board for home missionary purposes." It
cannot take and hold real or personal property, the annual
income of which shall exceed $200,000.
While these boards. are importaht agencies in aid of the
general religious work of the Presbyterian Church in the
United States of America, neither of them is, in any proper
sense, or in the meaning of the 35th section of the act of 1872,
a church, congregation, or society formed for the purpose of
religious worshi.p. The counsel for the plaintiff in error seem
to lay stress upon the more general words, 'formed for religious purposes," in the 42d section of the act; but manifestly
'he other parts of the same section, and previous sections, show
that the only corporations intended to be restricted in the
ownership of land to ten acres, were those formed for the
purpose of "religio u s worship," and not to organizations commonly called benevolent or missionary societies. The reasons
of public policy which restrict societies, formed for the purpose of religious worship, in their ownership of real estate, do
'not apply at all, or, if at all, only with diminished force, to
corporations which have no ecclesiastical control of those
engaged in religious worship, and cannot prescribe the forms
of such worship, nor subject to ecclesiastical discipline those
who fail to conform to the rules, usages, or orders of the
religious society of which they are members.
This conclusion does not, in the slightest degree, conflict
with the decision in St. etfe'r's Roman Catholic Congregationv.
Germain. That was the case of a conveyance of about eighty

MARSH v. SHEPARD.
Statement of Facts.

acres of land directly to a congregation or society "formed
for the purpose of religious worship," as distinguished from a
benevolent br missionary organization. The court held that,
under the legislation of Illinois, "a religious corporation is
aubhorized to receive or acquire lands to the extent of ten
acres and no more. Any amount in excess of that is expressly
forbidden by statute, and it follows that all conveyances,
deeds, or other contracts made in violation of this prohibition,
are absolutely void."
As the eleventh clause was intended to pass, and was valid
for the purpose of passing, to ,the Boards of Foreign and
Home Missions of the Presbyterian Church in the United
States of America the estate thereby devised, the decree must
be affirmned; and it is so ordered.

MARSH v. SHfEPARD.
APPEAL FROM

THE CIRCUIT

COURT

OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF mNCHIGAN.
Submitted March 7,1887.-Decided March 14,1887.

If the other ippellants oppose a motion, made by one of several appellants,
to dismiss an appeal on the ground that since it was taken the Supreme
Court of a state has enjoined all the appellants from enforcing the
claims which form the subject matter of the appeal, it will be denied.

Tuis was a motion to dismiss an appeal from a decree of
the Circuit Court dismissing a bill in equity brought to procure a perpetual injunction against alleged infringements of
letters-patent. The moticn was made by James Scott, one of
the appellants. The following affidavit and appearance were
filed in support of the motion.
Cailtoum County, ss.
"James Scott, being first duly sworn, doth on oath depose
and say: I am one of the appellants named in the above
entitled cause; that said appeal was taken without my knowledge and consent, and that I gave no authority to R. A.
"STATE

OF MIoHIGAN,

