82

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Names of Counsel.

of an answer under oath, we think the bill was properly dismissed.
_Aflm
ded.
HEINEMANN v. ARTHUR'S EXECUTORS.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Submitted January 3, 1887.- Decided January 24, 1887.

Wool of the third class was dutiable under ยง 1 of the act 6f March 2,
1867, c. 197, 14 Stat. 560, at three cents per pound, if its value at the
last port or place whence exported into the United States, excluding
charges in such port, was twelve cents or less per pound; and at six
cents per pound, if such- value exceeded twelve cents per pound. On
January 5, 1874, such wool, bought in Russia, in October, 1873, the
actual cost of which, exclusive of chargesowas below twelve cents per
pound, at the time and place of exportation, was entered at the custom
house at the port of New York, at an invoice value stated in Russian
silver roubles. The collector computed the rouble at 77.17 cents, under
the authority pf a proclamation to that effect made by the Secretary of
the Treasury in December, 1873, in pursuance of an estimation of the
value of the rouble for the year 1874, made by the director of the mint,
as required b the act of March 3, 1873, c. 268, 17 Stat. 602. Prior to
that act the value of the rouble had been fixed by statute at seventy-five
cents. If the rouble had been computed at seventy-five cents, the invoice
value of the wool would have been less than twelve cents per pound.
Computing it at 77.17 cents raised such invoice value above twelve cents
per pound. The collectbr exacted a duty of six cents per pound. In an
action to recover back the excess of duty over three cents per pound;
Held:
(1) The effect of the act of 1873 was to repeal the prior statute;
(2)'the requirement of ยง 7 of the act of March 3, 1865, c. 80, 13 Stat. 493,
forbade the assessment of duty on an amount less than the invoice or
entered value;
(3) the collector was, therefore, required to compute the rouble at 77.17
cents, although the cost of the goods, computing the rouble at seventyfive cents, was twelve cents or less per pound.

-31r.Sidney De Xay and Xlir. Patrick A. Collins for plaintiff in error.
Mrf'. Solicitor General for defendants in error.

HEINEMANN v. ARTHUR'S EXECUTORS.
Opinion of the Court.
MR.JUSTIOE BLATOHFORD

delivered-the opinion of the court.

In October, 1873, .the firm of .Heinemann, Payson & Morgan
bought, paid for, and exported from Taganrog, in Russia,
some colored carpet wools, the actual cost of which, exclusive
of charges, was below twelve cents per pound, at the time and
place of exportation. They were imported into the port of
New York, and entered at the custom-house there January
5, 1874, at the invoice value of 41,975.01 silver roubles.
The collector reduced -the amount into United States money
at 77.17 cents to the rouble. This made the value of the
wool greater than twelve cents per pound, and the collector
of six cents per pound. The importers
exacted a duty on i.t
protested that the rouble should be computed at seventy-five'
cents, which would have made the value twelve cents or less per
pound, and the duty would have been three cents per pound.
The tariff act in force at the time of the entry was ยง 1 of the
act of March 2, 1867, c. 197, 14 Stat. 560, which, as applicable to the merchandise, which was wool of the third class,
provided 'as follows: "Upon wools of the thirdclass, the value'
whereof at the last port or-place whence exported into the
United States, excluding charges in such port, shall be twelve
cents or less per pound, the duty shall be three cents per pound;
upon wools of the same class, the value whereof at the last
port or place whence exported to the United States, excluding
charges in such port, shall exceea. twelve cents per pound, the
duty shall be six cents~per pound." .The Secretary of the
Treasury, on appeal, confirmed the action of the collector, and
the importers, after paying the duty exacted, to obtain their
goods, brought this suit against the collector to recover the
alleged excess.
Section 1 of the act of March 3, 1843, c. 92, 5 Stat. 625,
provided, "that lin all computations of the value of foreign
moneys of account at the custom-houses of the United States,
the rouble of Russia shall be deemed and taken to be
of the value of seventy-five cents."
On the 3d of March, 1873, the folloying act was approved,
17 Stat. 602, c. 268 :

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

"SEC. 1. That the value of foreign coin, as expressed in the
money of account of the United States, shall be that of the
pure metal of such coin of standard value; and the values of
the standard coins in circulation of the various nations of the
world shall be estimated annually by the director of the mint,
and proclaimed on the'first day of January by the Secretary
of the Treasury.
"SEC. 2. That in all payments by or to the treasury, whether
made here or in foreign countries, when it becomes necessary
to compute the value of the sovereign or pound sterling, it
shall be deemed equal to four dollars eighty-six cents and six
and one half mills, and the same rule shall be applied in appraising merchandise imported, when the value is, by the invoice, in sovereigns or pounds sterling, and in the construction
of contracts payable in sovereigns or pounds sterling; and this
valuation shall be the par of exchange between Great Britain
and the United States; and all contracts made after the first
day of January, eighteen hundred and seventy-four, based on
assumed par of exchange with Great Britain of fifty-four.pence
to the dollar, or four dollars forty-four and four ninths cents to
the sovereign or pound sterling, shall be null and void.
"SEc. 3. That all acts and parts of acts inconsistent with
these provisions be, and the same are hereby, repealed."
In pursuance of this statute the director of the mint estimated the value of the Russian rouble for the year 1874 at
,M17 cents in United States money of account, and the Secretary of the Treasury thereafter, on the 20th of December,
1873, proclaimed by a circular addressed to the collectors of
customs, that, "from and after January 1st, 1874, the following table of standard values of foreign moneys, reduced to
the moneys of account of the United States, will, until otherwise provided for by law or regulation, be taken at customhouses in computing the invoice value of all imported merchandise expressed in such currency, to wit, Russian roubles of
1)0 copecks, silver, 77.17."
The foregoing facts appearing at the trial of the case before the court and a jury, the plaintiffs contended that the
wool was purchased before the act of March 3, 1873, took

HEINEMANN

v. ARTHUR'S EXECUTORS.
Opinion of the Court.

effect, and that the value in United States money should have
been computed as of the time of exportation. These positions were overruled by the court, and it directed the jury to
find a verdict for the defendant, which was done under the
objection and exception of the plaintiffs. To review a judgment for the defendant the plaintiffs have brought this writ
of error.
The decision of this court in Te Collector' v. Bichards, 23
Wall. 246, establishes that the effect of the act of 1873 was
to fix the value of the Russian silver rouble, in the money of
account of the United States, for the purpose of computing,
at the custom-house. the amount of an invoice of imported
goods, and, consequently, to repeal the act of 1843. See, also,
C'ame v. Arth tr, 102 U. .S. 612; BJadden v. .Eerritt, 115
U. S. 25.
Evidence that the merchandise cost, exclusive of charges, less
than tw elve cents per pound, at the time and place of exportation, could not affect the question, because, although the duty
was imposed according to the value of the goods "at the last
port or place whence exported to the United States," yet, when
that value was stated, in the-invoice, in the foreign silver currency, its equivalent in the money of. account of the United
States could not be computed, for the purpose of the entry of
the goods at the custom-house, for duty, at any sum less than
the invoice or entered value. Section 7 of the act of March
3, 1865, c. SO, 13 Stat. 493, in force at the time of this importation, provided that, in all cases where the duty imposed by
law should be based upon the value of any specified quantity
of merchandise, the value upon which the duty should be
assessed should be its actual market value or wholesale price
at the period of exportation, in the principal markets of the
country of exportation, but that the duty should. nbt be assessed "upon an amount less than the invoice or entered value,
any act of Congress to the contrary notwithstanding." This
made it imperative on the collector to compute the value of
the silver rouble, at the time of the entry, according to that
value as determined in accordance with the act of 1873, which
was 77.17 conts. The duty was imposed by the statute ac-

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

cording to the "value" of the goods at the time and place of
exportation. The importer stated that "value," in the foreign
coin, in his invoice and entry. The statute as to computation
applied as of the date of entry, to such entered value. Hence
it could not affect the question to show that the "cost" of the
goods abroad, computing the rouble at a lower rate, as of the
date of. exportation, was twelve cents or less per pound:
Judgment armed.

ROBERTS

v.

PH(ENIX LIFE INSURANCE
PANY.

APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT -OF THE
THE DISTRICT OF
Argued January 12, 13, 188. -Decided

UNITED

COM-

STATES

F011

OENTUCKY.
Janury 24, 1887.

In a suit in equity by a wife against a life insurance company and her husband, in the Circuit Court of the United States in Kentucky, to recover,
as assignee of her husband by a written assignment, the amount insured
by a policy issued by the company in favor of the husband and his
assigns, on the life of a debtor of his, for $20,000, the husband having,
after the date of such assignment and before the death of the debtor,
delivered the policy to the company, with a written assignment by him
to it, indorsed on the policy of "all right and title to the within policy,"
and expressing a consideration of $4000, and received the $4000, the
Circuit Court having dismissed the bill, this court, on appeal, affirmed the
decree, on the ground that the assignment to the wife was not satisfactorily proved to have been made or delivered before the transaction
between the husband and the company.

Xr. fffar. .1undy and -Yr. Samuel Shellabargerfor appellant.
_J'r. Augustus E. Tillon for appellee.
MR.JUSTICE

BLATCHFORD

delivered the opinion of the court.

On the 27th of August, 1872, the Phoenix Mutual Life Insurance Company, of Hartford, Connecticut, a Connecticut

