ACCIDENT INS. CO. v. CRANDAL.
Statement .of Facts.

ACCIDENT INSURANCE COMPANY 'v. OlANDAL.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
Submitted December 21, 1886.-Decided March 7, 1887.

The refusal of the court to instruct the jury, at the close of the plaintiff's
evidence, that he is not eunitled to recover, cannot be assigned for error,
if the defendant afterwards introduces evidence.
A policy of insurance against "bodily injuries, effected through external,
accidental and violent means,"'and occasioning death or complete disability to do business; provided that "this insurance shall, not extend to
death or disability which may have been caused wholly orin part by bod-ily infirmities or disease, or by suicide, or self-inflicted injuries;" coverst
a death by hanging one's self while insane.
Statements in an application for a policy of insurance, expressing the applicant's understanding of what will be the effect of the insurance, cannot
control the legal .construction of the policy afterwards issued and.
accepted, although the application warrants the facts stated therein to
be true, and the policy is expressed to be made "in consideration of the
warranties made in the application."

THis was an action against an accident insurance company
upon a policy beginning thus:

"In consideration of the warranties made in the application
for this insurance, and of the sum of fifty dollars, this company hereby insures Edward M4. Crandal, by occupation,
profession or employment a president of the Crandal Manufacturing Company," in the sum of ten thousand dollars
for twelve months, ending May 23, 1885, payable to his wife,
the original plaintiff, "within thirty days after sufficient proof
that the insured at any time within the continuance of thispolicy shall have sustained bodily injuries, effected throug
external, accidental and violent means, within the intent andlmeaning of this contract and the conditions'hereunto annexed,
and such injuries alone shall have occasioned death within
ninety days from the happening thereof; or if the ins-ared
shall sustain bodily injuries by means as aforesaid, which
shall, independently of all other causes, immediately and

OCTOBER TERAI, 1886.
Statement of Facts.

wholly disable and prevent him from the prosecution of any
and every kind of business pertaining to the occupation under
which he is insured, then, on satisfactory proof of such
injuries, he shall be indemnified against loss of time caused
thereby in the sum of fifty dollars per week for such period
of continuous total disability as shall immediately follow the
accident and injuries as aforesaid, not exceeding, however,
twenty-six consecutive weeks from the time of the happening
of such accident."
Then followed certain conditions, the material part of which
was as follows: "Provided always, that this insurance shall
not extend to hernia, nor to any bodily injury of which there
shall be no external and visible sign; nor to death or disability which may have been caused wholly or in part by
bodily infirmities or disease, or by the taking of poison, or
by any surgical operation or medical or mechanical treatment;
and no claim shall be made under this policy when the death
or injury may have been caused by duelling, fighting, wrestling,
unnecessary lifting, 6r by over-exertion, or by suicide, or by
freezing, or sunstroke, or self-inflicted injuries."
The application was signed by the assured, and began as
follows:
"The undersigned hereby applies for a policy of insurance
against bodily injuries effected through external and accidental violence; said policy to be based upon the following
statement of facts, which I hereby warrant to be true."
The rest of the application consisted of fifteen numbered
paragraphs, stating the name, age, residence and occupation
of the applicant, the amount, term and payee of the policy
applied for; affirming that he had never been "subject to fits,
disorders of the brain, or any bodily or mental infirmity,"
that he had not "in contemplation any special journey or any
hazardous undertaking," and that "his habits of life are correct and temperate;" and expressing his understanding of
the effect of the insurance in several particulars; the last of
which was as follows:
"15. I am aware that this insurance will not extend to
hernia, nor to any bodily injury of which there shall be no

ACCIDT INS. CO. v. CR"NDAL.
Statement of Facts.

external and visible sign, nor to any bodily injury happening
directly or indirectly in consequence of disease, nor to death
or disability caused wholly or in part by bodily infirmities or
by disease, or by the taking of poison, or by any surgical operation or medical or mechanical treatment, nor to any case
except when the accidental injury shall be the proximate and
sole cause of disbility or death."
The assured died July'7, 1884; and the plaintiff soon afterwards gave to the defendant written notice and proofs of the
death, which stated that the assured, while temporarily insane,
hangd himself with a pair of suspenders attached to a doorknob in his bedroom. At the trial, the plaintiff introduced
evidence that the death of the assured was caused by strangulation from his so hanging himself; and, against the defendant's objection and exception, was permitted to introduce
evidence tending to show that he was insane at the time. At
the close of the plaintiff's evidence, the defendant.moved the
court to instruct the jury that under the law and the evidence
in the case the plaintiff was not entitled to recover. The
court overruled the motion, and the defendant excepted. The
defendant then introduced evidence, and the case was aigued
to the jury.
The jury, under instructions to which no exception was
taken, and in answer to specific questions from the court, retrned a special verdict that Edward K. Crandal made the
application; 'that the defendant issued the poli-y.; that the
premiums were fully paid, and the policy was in force at the
time of his death; that he hanged himself on July 7, 18.84,
and thereof died on the same day; that he was insane at the'
time of his act of self-destruction; and that due notice and
proof of death were given to the defendant; and, according.
to what, upon these facts, the opinion of the court -in matter
of law might be, found for the plaintiff in the full amount
of the policy, or for the defendant.
The court overruled a motion for a new trial, and rendered
judgment on the verdict for the plaintiff. 27 Fed. Rep. 40.
The defendant sued out this ivrit of error.
VOL. cxx-34

,OCTOBER

TERINI. 1886.

Opinion of the Court.

•Y. Emerson B. Tuttl for plaintiff in error cited: 2fallory
v. Travellrs' Ins. Co., 47 N. Y. 52; Providence Ins. Co. v.
MAartin, 32 Maryland, 310; Norah American Ins. Co. v. Burroughs, 69 Penn. St. 43; Pollock v. United States Accident
Ass'ciation,102 Penn. St. 230; Schneider v. Provident Ins Co.,
24 Wis. 28; Bayless v. Travellers' Ins. Co., 14 Blatchford, 143;
Zife Ins. Co. v. Terry, 15 Wall_ 580 ; Gay V. Union _1s. Co.,
9 Blatchford, 142; Breasted y. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co., 8
iN. Y. 299 [S. (. 59' Am. Dec. 482]; Connecticut Ins. Co. v..
Co.,
Groo',86 Penn. St. 92; Zimic v. Afutual Beneft I.
10 Amer. Law Reg. (N. S.) 101; Estabrook v. Union -Is. Co., 54
Maine, 224; St. Iouis Ins. Co. v. Graves, 6 Bush, 268; Insurance Co. v. Tweed, 7 Wall. 44'; Ins. Co. v. Transportation Co.,
12 Wall. 194: Win.?pear v. Accident Ins. Co., 6 Q. B. D: 42;
Brady v. _.orthwestern Ins. Co., 11 Mich. 425; .cCarthy v.•
Travellers' Ins. Co., 8 Bissell, 362; Peters v. Warren Ins. Co.,
14 Pet. 99; General Ins. Co. v. Sherwood,14 How. 351; St.John
v. American Ins. Co., 11 N. Y. 516; Strong v. Sun Ins. Co.,
31 N. Y. 103; Lewis v. Sprilngfield Ins. Co., 10 Gray, 159;
)Jfontoyav. Iondon.Assurance Co., 6 Exch. 451 ; Be Gogorza
v. JKnickerbocker Ins. Co., 65 N. Y. 232.
_Mr. George C. Fry for defeiidahit in error.

Mn. JUsTC E GnAY, after stating the case as above reported,
delivered the opinion of the court.
The refusal of the court to instruct the jury, at the close of
the plaintiff's evidence, that she was not entitled to recover,
cannot be assigned for error, because the defendant at the time
of requesting such an instruction had not rested its case, but
afterwards w.ent on and introduced evidence in its own behalf.
Grand Trunk kailway v. Cummings, 106 U. S. 700 ; Bradley
v. Poole, .98 Mass. 169. The subsequent instructions to the
jury were not excepted to. No error is assigned in the previous rulings upon evidence, except in the admission, against the
defendant's objection and exception, of evidence tending to
prove the insanity of the assured. The only other matter open
upon this record is whether the judgment for the plaintiff is
=supported by the special verdict, which finds that, while the,

ACCIDENT INS. CO. v. CRANDAL.
Opinion of the Court.

policy was in force, the assured died by hanging himself, being
at the time insane, and that due notice and proof of death
were afterwards given.
The single question to be decided therefore is, whether a
policy of insurance against "bodily injuries, effected through
external, accidental and violent means," and occasioning death
or complete disability to do business; and providing that "this
insurance shall not extend to death or disability which may
have been caused wholly or in part by bodily infirmities or
disease, or by suicide, or self-inflicted injuries ;" covers a death
by hanging one's self while insane.
The decisions upon the effect of a policy-of life insurance,
which provides that it shall be void if the assured "shall die
by suicide," or "shall die by his own hand," go far towards
determining this question. This court, on full consideration
of the conflicting authorities upon that subject, has repeatedly
and uniformly held that such a provision, not containing the
words "sane or insane," does not include a self-killing by an
insane person, whether his unsoundness of mind is such as to
prevent him from understanding the physical nature and cons~quences of his act, or only such as to prevent him, while
foreseeing and premeditating its physical consequences, from
understanding its moral nature and aspect. .Lke ns. Co. v.
Ty-., 15 Wall. 580; Bigelow v. Berkshire Is. Co., 93 U. S.
284; Insu>'ance Co. v. Rodlel, 95 U..S. 232; .anhattan As.
Co. v. Broughton, 109 U. S. 121. In the last case, which was
one in which the assured hanged himself while insane, the
court, repeating the words used by Ar. Justice Nelson, when
Chief Justice of New, York, said that "self-destruction by a
fellow-being bereft of'reason can with no more propriety be
ascribed to the act of his own hand than to the deadly instrument that may. have been used by him for the purpose," and
"was no more his act, in the sense of the law, than if he had
been impelled by irresistible physical power." 109 U. S. 132;
Breasted v: Farmers' Loan & Trust Co., 4 Hill, '3. In a like
case, Vice Chancellor Wood (since Lord Chancellor Hatherley)
observed, that the deceased was "subject to that which is
really just as much an accident as if he had fallen from the

OCTOBER TERAI,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

"topof a house." HYoi- v. Anglo-Australian Ins. Co., 30 Law
Joutrnal (N. S.) Oh. 511; S. . 7 Jurist (N. S.) 673. And in
another case, Chief Justice Appleton said,. that "the insane
suicide no more dies by his own hand than the suicide by mistake or accident," and that, under such a policy, "death by
thehands of the insured, whether by accident, mistake, or in
a fit of in'sanity, is to be governed by one and the same rule."
Eastabrookv. Union Ins. Co., 54: Maine, 224, 227, 229.
Many of the cases cited for the plaintiff in error are inconsistent with the settled law of this court, as shown by the decisions above mentioned..
In this-state of the law, there can be no doubt that the assured did not die "b- suicide," within the meaning of this
,policy; and the same reasons are conclusive against holding
that he died by "self-inflicted injuries." If self-killing, "suicide," "dying by his own hand," cannot be predicated of an
,insane person,' no more can "self-inflicted injuries;" for in
either case it is not his act.
Nor does 'the case come within the clause which provides
that the insurance shall not extend to "death or disability,
which may have been caused wholly or in part by bodily infirmities or disease."
If insanity could be considered as coming within this clause,
it-would be doubtful, to say the least, whether, under the rule
of the law of insurance which attributes an injury or loss to'
its proximate cause only, and in view of the decisid-ns in similar cases, the insanity of the assured, br anything hut the act
of hanging himself, cpuld be held to be the cause of his death.
Soejj'er v. ]?aileoad Co., 105 T. S. 249, 252; Trew v. Raiway
Passengers'Assurince Co., 5 IH. & N. 211, and 6 H. & N.
839, 845; Reynolds v. Accidental Ahs. Co., 22 Law Times
(N. S.) 820; Winsyear v. Accident Ins. Co., 42 Law Times
(N, S.) 900; affirmed, 6 Q. B. D. 42; Lawrence v. Accidental
Ins. Co., 7 Q. B. D. 216, 221; Schkiderer v. Travellers' Ins.
Co., 58 Wisconsin, 13.
But the words "bodily infirmities or disease" do not include
insanity. Although, as suggested by Mr. Justice Hunt in
Life Ins. Co. v. Terry, 15 Wall. 589, insanity or unsoundness

ACCIDENT INS. CO. v. CRANDAL.
Opinion of the Couft.

of mind often, if not always, is accompanied by, or results
from, disease of the body, still, in the common speech of inankind, mental, are distinguished from bodily diseases. In the
phrase "bodily infirmities or disease," the word "bodily"
grammatically applies to "disease," as well as to "infirmities;"
and it cannot but be so applied, without disregarding the fundamental rule of interpretation, that policies of insurance axe
to be construed most strongly against the insurers who frame
them. The prefix of "bodily" hardly affects the meaning lof
"infirmities," and it is difficult to conjecture any purpose in
inserting it in this proviso, other than to exclude mental disease from the enumeration of the 'causes of death or disability
to which the insurance does not extend.
In the argument for the plaintiff in error, some stress was
laid on the fact that the concluding paragraph of the application differs in form of expression, so as to include mental as
well as bodily diseases. It is by no means clear that this is so;
but if it were, it would not affect the case. The whole application is not made part of the contract, and the only mention
of it in the policy is in the opening words, "In consideration
of the warranties made in the application for this insurance."
This does not include all the statements 'in the application, but
only those which are warranties. Some of* them may be;
others clearly are not. The statements as to the age, occupation, previous state of health and present habits of. the assured,
and as to his other insurance, may be warranties on his part.
Those as to the amount, terms and payee of the policy applied
for, certainly are not. The statements expressing his understanding of what will be the effect of the insurance are statements not of fact, but of law, and cannot control the legal
construction of the policy afterwards issued and accepted.
The death of the assured-not having been the effect of any
cause specified in the proviso of the policy, and not coming
within any warranty in the application, the question recurs
whether it is within the general words of the leading sentence
of the policy, by which he is declared to be insured "against
bodily injuries effected through external, accidental and violent ieans." This sentence does not, like the proviso, speak

-00TOBLM TERM3- 1-886.
Syllabus.

of what the injury is "caused by," but it looks only. to the
"means" by which it is effected. No one doubts that hangmg is a violent means of death. As it affects the body from

without, it is external, just as suffocation by drowning was
held to be, in the cases of [1-w, Reynolds and Wine ear,
above cited. And, according to the decisions as to suicide under policies of life insurance, before referred to, it cannot,
when done by an insane person, be held to be other than accidental.
The result is, that the judgment of the Circuit Court in
favor of the plaintiff was correct, and must be
Aflrmed.

FLETCHER v. FULLER.
EROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR TE
DISTRICT OF RHODE ISLAND.
Argued January 18,19,1887. -Decided March 7,1887.

Defendants in ejeetment having produced a regular chain of title under a
deed from a grandson ol the original owner of a lot in Rhode Island, including the land in controversv, which was executed in 1768 and recorded
soon afterwards ifi the land records ,of the town in which it was situated,
and having, shownthat the ancestors in title paid the taxes on said lot
for twenty years preceding 1805, and that afterward, up to the trial of the
action in 1882, a period of seventv-seven years, they or their ancestors in
title had uiinterruptedly paid the taxes on'the lot; and having shown an
entry in 1835 by their -ancestor upon the lot under a deed, for the purpose
of quarrying a ledge of rock running through it, and the quarrying of the
ledge with occasional intervals from 1846 to the commencement of this
action in 1874,- a period of twenty-eight years, the said entry being made
with clain of title to the whole lot. Held, in an action brought by the
heirs of the devisee of the original proprietor, under a will executed in
1749, and probated in 1756, none of whom had made any claim to the
-premises for'three quarters of a century after the death of the original
proprietor, under whose will they now assert'title, nor paid taxes on the
property, nor after that time ever taken possession of the premises or
paid taxes upon them, that the jury might presume a deed tO the grandson
from the origiiial proprietor, or from his devisee, to quiet the possession
of the defendants claiming under such grandson, and that in making
such presumption the jury were not to be restricted to consideration of.

