UNITED STATES v. BISHOP.
Opinion of the Court.

regolations as would have been enforced had she been put in
order and used for purposes of cruising, or as a practice ship
at sea. Within the meaning of the law, Symonds, when performing his duties as executive officer of the New Hampshire,
was "at sea."
Judgment afrmed.

UNITED STATES v. BISHOP.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
Submitted December 6,1886.-Decided January 10, 1887.

This case is affirmed on the authority of United States v. Symonds, just
decided (ante, 46).

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.
Mrt. Attorney General and _-Yr. F. P. JDewees for appellant.
-1". Joen,Paul Jones and 31r. Robert B. Lines for appellee.
MR. JVSTIcE ILALA.N delivered the opinion of the court.

This case does not differ in principle from that of United
States v. Symonde, just decided.
Bishop is now, and has been for more than four years, a
lieutenant-commander in the navy. By direction of the Secretary of the Navy, he assumed the duties of executive officer
of the training-ship Mffinnesota, on the 18th of April, 1884.
During the period of such service that vessel was stationed in
New York harbor, cruising and moving about under her own
power. Her machinery and equipment were kept in order, and
she was perfectly seaworthy, capable, upon short notice, of
being used in a protracted cruise.
The duties of Bishop, while such executive officer, were
more arduous and confining than those of officers of similar
grade upon vessels in foreign waters.

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Syllabus.

For the reasons given in United States v. Symonds, we are
of opinion that the services of appellee were, within the
meaning of § 1556 of the Revised Statutes, performed "at
sea," and, consequently, it was rightly adjudged in the court
below that he was entitled to sea-pay, as established for offi-

cers of his grade, during the period of his service on the
Minnesota.

Jdgment aj wfmed.

UNITED STATES v. PHILBRIOK.
APPEAL FIROM THE COURT OF C.A.hIS.
Submitted December 6, 1886.-Decided January 10, 1887.

Prior to the enactment in the act of February 25, 1871, 16 Stat. 431, now
Rev. Stat. § 12, that "whenever an act is repealed, which repealed a
former act, such former act shall not thereby be revived unless it shall
be expressly so provided," it was the general rule of law that the repeal
of a repealing act restored the law as it was before the passage of the
latter act without formal words for that purpose, uwiess otherwise provided either in the repealing act or by some general statute.
Before the passage of the act of March 3, 1835, forbidding it, 4 Stat. 757,
it was lawful -forthe Secretary of the Navy to make allowances out of
appropriations in gross to officers of the Navy beyond their regular pay,
for quarters, furniture, lights, fuel, &c., and the repeal of that act by the
act of April 17, 1866, 14 Stat. 33, restored the right to 'make such allowances and such as were made by him and were settled at the Treasury
Department, between the date when the latter act went into effect and
the passage of the act of February 25, 1871, 16 Stat. 431, were made in
accordance with Sie executive construction of the statutes respecting the
navy and the Navy Department prior to 1835, and this court will not at
this late day question their validity.
The contemporaneous construction of a statute by the Executive Department charged with its execution is entitled to great weight, and ought
not to be overturned unless clearly erroneous.
It is npt decided (1) whether after settlement of an account at the Treasury
it can be reopened by theaccounting officers on the ground of.error
arising only from mistake of law; nor ,2) whether eerors in accounts
with the United States, stated closed and settled by payment, can be corrected otherwise than by regular judicial proceedings instituted by the°
United States.

