OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Statement of Facts.

MWARSH

.

CICHOLS.

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF MICHIGAN.
Submitted March 7,1887.-Decided March 14,1887.

A respondent to a bill in equity in a state court, who allows a decree ,
confesso to be taken against him in the lower state court, and is not
party to the appeal of the Supreme Court of the state, nor to the petition
for a writ of error to this court, cannot make himself a party here against
the objections of other respondents, who appeared and contested the
cause in the state courts, and sued out the writ of error to this court.

THIs cause is the one referred to in .ifarsh v. Skepard, ante,
595, as "the suit in chancery between the same parties, with
reference to alleged infringements of the same letters-patent,
decided in the Supreme Court of Michigan." Scott, one of the
defendants below, allowed the bill in the lower state cburt to
be taken pro confesso against him, and was no party to the
appeal to the Supreme Court of the State, where the decree of
the court below granting an injunction was affirmed, nor to
the writ of error. The following motion was filed on his be-half :
"And now comes Tames Scott, by Edward J. Hill, his attorney, and brings here a transcript of the record to which the
said plaintiffs in error above named have caused the writ of
error issued from this court herein to be directed, together with
a copy of the writ, and thereby shows that he is a material and
necessary party of record to this cause, and therefore asks that
he have leave to file said transcript of record, and be made a
party plaintiff in error herein, and that said cause be docketed,
and that his appearance may be entered herein, and that the
said writ- of error be dismissed for want of jurisdiction apparefit on the face of the record, or for such other or further
order in the premises as m.y be just and proper.
"Dated February 28, 1887.
" JA s SCOTT,

"1By EdwardJ. Hill, his Attorney."

MARSH v. NICHOLS.
Opinion of the Court.

This motion was accompanied by the following statement:
"The answer of Marsh".and 'Le Fever, and that of James
Scott, show'that Scott is the assignee of an undivided one third
interest in the valve gear, of which Marsh claims to be the
original and first inventor, but that because of the license to
use the same, to Nichols, Shepard & Co., and the decision of
Judge Brown in their case against Nichols, Shepard & Co., at
Detroit, (see record in No. 641, October Term, 1886,) he has instituted suit against Marsh and Le Fever, to rescind his contract
of purchasd of said interest with them. Scott was satisfied
with the decree of Judge Hooker, therefore he did not -unite
in the appeal to the -Supreme Court of Michigan, which affirmed the decree establishing the license, rendering the same
reejudicata. The main object of this'writ of error is evidently
to delay Scott in his suit with Marsh and Le Fever over this
question thus forever settled.
"Scott's naife was left out of the writ of error; why?
Scott's position is plainly antagonistic to that of Marsh and
Le Fever. In his suit to rescind, he wants the decision of
Judge Brown upheld, and the license established according to
the decrees of the Michigan courts. In these respects he occupies ground almost the same as do Nichols, Shepard & Co.
The decrees are, however, against him; until properly rescinded
by a court of competent jurisdiction, his interest is subsisting.
His election to rescind and his disclaimer therein did not annul
his contract of purchase, so as to release him from -a decree.
But it warrants him in severing himself from Marsh and Le
Fever in .a'ars v. Shepard, ante, 595, and in coming here to
look after his interests, and to show these facts by ,n attorney
of this court other than Mr". Parker, who has, up to the time
of Scott's election to rescind, acted for Scott as well as for
Marsh and Le Fever."
Xr. Edward J Hil for the motion.
-Y. 7. A. Parker and 21b'. Don.
M n.
court.

CHIEF Jusice

Dickinsown, opposing.

WAATE delivered the opinion of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Syllabus.

This motion is denied. Although the suit was brought
against Marsh, Le Fever, and Scott, Marsh and Le Fever alone
answered the bill, and the decree was taken pro confesso
against Scott. Marsh and Le Fever alone appealed from the
Circuit Court of the county to the Supreme Court of the state,
and from the decree in that court they alone obtained the
allowance of a writ of error to this court. To such a writ
Scott cannot make himself a party against the objection of
Marsh and Le Fever, .so as to control the case in this court.
.Aotion denied.

EAST ST. LOUIS v. AMY.
ERROR TO TE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
.SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
Submitted January 7, 187.--Decided March 14, 1887.

The charter of East St. Louis in Illinois, which went into .effect March 26,
1869, authorized it to borrow money not exceeding $100,000, and limited
its power of special taxation to pay interest and provide a sinking fund
to three mills on the dollar of the assessment. The constitution of Illinois which took effect August 8, 1870, forbade municipal corporations in
'the state from incurring indebtedness to an amount exceeding live per
cent. on the value of the taxable property, including existing debt, and
required them to provide for the collection of an annual tax sufficient to
pay the interest on the debt as it falls due' and to pay and discharge the
principal within twenty years from the time of its contraction. The
city of East St. Louis was in debt when this constitution took effect, and
contracted other obligations after that time, but not in excess of the
amount named in the charter, and imposed a tax of three mills to meet
the debt as required by the charter, but failed for a series of years to
collect a tax as directed by the constitution. On an application for mandamus to compel the collection of the latter tax, Herd: that the constitution removed from the charter the limitation upon the power of the
council to tax for the payment of any bonded indebtedness which might
thereafter be incurred, and imposed upon the corporation the duty of
collecting sufficient to pay the interest as it fell due, and the principal
within twenty years, and that it was within the discretion of the court
whether to order a single levy to meet all past due obligations under this
head, or more than one levy if only one appeared to be oppressive.

