109

UNITED STATES v.' SCHLESINGER.
Opinion of the Court.

He must state the facts so as to enable the court to see whether
the right he claims does really and substantially depend on a
construction of that instrument. -That has not been done in
this case, and the order remanding the suit is consequently ,
Affirmed-.

TGER.
UNITED STATES v. SCHLE,. -'
ERROR TO

THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF

THfE

UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE

DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.
Argued January 13, 1887. -

Decided January 24, 1887.

Construing together §§ 2931 and 3011 of the Revised Statutes, the decision of the Secretary of the Treasury, on an appeal from a collector
of customs, as to the rate and amount of duties, is not fnal1 and conclusive, except in a case where, after a protest and appeal, a payment of
duties is made in order to obtain possession of goods, and then a suit is
not brought to recover back the duties within the times and underothe
limitations prescribed by § 2931.
Such decision is not final, in a suit brought by the United States against an
importei, where, on entering goods, he paid the estimated duties, ahd
the goods were delivered to him, and on a reliquidation of the entry
further duties were assessed, and he duly protested, and appealed to the
Secretary, who sustained the action of the collector, the suit being brought
to recover such further duties.
In such suit the defendant may show, as a defence, that the further duties'
were illegally Mssessed.

Tins was an action at law to recover a sum alleged to be
due the United States on imported merchandise. Judgment for
defendant. Plaintiff below sued out this writ of error.' Thecase is stated in the opinion of the the court.
.Jfr. Solicitor Generalfor plaintiff in'error.
Mr.L. S. Dabney and --Mr. William S. 'JITall for defendants

n error.
AJR. JusTIcE BLATcnwoRD

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action at law brought by the United States against
the members of the firm ,of Naylor & Co., in the Circuit Court

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

of the United States for the District of Massachusetts, to
rcover a sum of money claimed to be due as duties on merchandise, imported into the port of Boston from England, in
January, 1880. The importers paid the estimated .amount of
duties, and obtained possession of the goods, and this suit was
brought to recover the difference between the duties so paid
and a larger amount at which the collector subsequently liquidated the dutiqs.' The'case was tried by the court without a
jury, ervidence being introduced by both parties. The court
found the following facts: "The defendants imported into
Boston from Liverpool the merchandise named in plaintiffs'
declaration, which they (the defendants) invoiced and entered
as ' scrap steel,' dutiable at thirty pe. cent. ad valorern. At the
time of the entry they paid the estimated duties thereon, cal-.
culated at thirty per cent. ad valorem, and all the merchandise
was thereupon then delivered to them. No question was made
but that a portion of the merchandise was dutiable at thirty
per 6ent. ad valoremn, as entered. The other and disputed portion of the merchandise consisted of pieces of steel railway
bars, sawed at both ends, from, two feet to six feet in length.
After entry the whole merchandise was weighed by customs
bfficers, proper examination was made thereof by the appraiser,
who duly made report thereon to the collector, who, in due
course and form of law, liquidated the entries, classifying the
undisputed portion of the merchandise as it was entered, and
assessing the duty thereon at thirty per cent. ad valorem, but
classifying the disputed portion as 'steel in bars, dutiable at
2, cents a pound, under Department decision of October 31st,
1879, No. 4273.' Against this classification of the disputed
portion of the mercha- -ise and the ascertainment and liquidation-of the duty thereon the defendants duly protested,
and appealed to the Secretary of the Treasury, who sustained
the action of the collector, and, the defendants not paying
the duty thus ascertained and assessed, this action was brought.
The plaintiffs claimed that the decision of the Secretary of the
Treasury, under the provisions of section 2931 of'the Revised
Statutes of the United States, was final and conclusive, the
defendants not having paid the duties and brought suit to

UNITED STATES v. SCHLESINGER.
Opinion of the Court.

recover the amount so paid, and that the plaintiffs were entitled to recover the whole amount found due upon liquidation
by the collector, with interest, which amount so found due
was $2125.80. It also appeared, that, owing to error in the
supposed weight and amount of the merchandise when the estimated duties were paid, the proper duty due upon all the
importations, calling the merchandise ' scrap steel,' as entered,
and dutiable at thirty per cent. ad valor"em, was $116.50 more
than had been paid as the estimated dutfthereon; which sum
of $116.50 is included in the above amount-of $2125.80. The
defendants introduced testimony tending to show, and the
court found, as a fact, that the .steel xailway bars above
described were commercially known as Iscrap steel,' and -that
they were fit only to be remanufactured."
Upon the foregoing facts the court ruled, as matter of law,
that the assessment of duty by the collector upon the disputed
portion of the merchandise was illegal, and that the plaintiffs
were not, under thie provisions of § 2931, entitled to recover
the full amount they claimed, and ordered judgment for the
plaintiffs for $116.50 only. To this ruling and order the
plaintiffs excepted; and judgment being entered for them for
$116.50, they have brought this writ of error.
The Circuit Court, in its decision, made in December, 1882,
14 Fed. iRep. 682, construed § 2931 and 3011 of the Revised
Statutes. Section 3011, as it stood at the time of these importations and stands now, reads as follows: "Any person who
shall have made payment -under protest and in order to obtain
possession of merchandise imported for him, to any collector,
or person acting as collector, of any money as duties, when
such amount of duties was not, or was not wholly, authorized
by law, may maintain an action in the nature of an action at
law, which shall be triable by jury, to ascertain the validitf
of such demand and payment of duties, and to recover back
any excess so paid. But no recovery shall be allowed in such
action unless a protest [and appeal shall have been taken as
prescribed in section twenty-nine hundred and thirty-one.]"
The portion contained in brackets was inserted by the act of
February 27, 1877, c. 69, 19 Stat. 247, in place of tjae words

OCTOBER TERM,,1886.
Opinion of the Court.

"in writing and signed by the clahnant or his agent, was
made and delivered at or beforo the payment, setting forth distinctly and specifically the gkounds of objection'to the amount
claimed." -Section 3011, as it originally stood in the Revised
Statutes, was a reenactment of the act of February 26, 1845,
c. 22, 5 Stat."'727.
Section 2931 is a reenactment of § 14 of the act of June
30, 1864, c. 7I1, 13 Stat. 914, and is in these words: "On
the entry of any vessel or of any merchandise, the decision
of the collector of customs at the port of impoitation and
entry, as to the rate and amount of duties to be paid on the
tonnage of subh vessel or on such merchandise, and the dutiable costs and charges thereon, shall be final and conclusiveagainst all persons interested therein, unless the owner, master,
commander, or consignee of such vessel, in the case of duties
levied on tonnage, or the owner, importer, consignee or agent
"of the inerchandise, in t1ie casejof duties levied on merchandise, or the costs and charges thereon, shall, within ten days
after the ascertainment and liquidation of the duties by the
proper officers of the customs, as well in cases of merchandise
entered in bond as for, consumption, give notice in writing to
the collector on each entry, if dissatisfied 'with his decision,
setting forth therein, distinctly and specifically, the grounds
of his objection thereto, and shall, within thirty days after the
date of such ascertainment and liquidation, appeal therefrom
to the Secretary. of the Treasury. The decision of the Secretary on such appeal shall be final and conclusive; and such vessel, or merchandise, or costs and charges, shall be liable to duty
accordingly, unless suit shall be brought within ninety days
after the decision of the Secretary of the Treasury on such
appeal for any duties which shall have been paid before the
date of such decision on such vessel, or on such merchandise,
or costs or charges, or within ninety days after the payment
of duties paid after the decision of the Secretary. No suit
shall be maintained in any court for the recovery of any duties
alleged to havebeen erroneously or illegally exacted, until the
decision of the Secretary of the Treasury shall have been first
had on such appeal, unlebs the decision of the Secretary shall

UNITED STATES v. SCHLESINGER.
Opinion of the Court.

be delayed more than ninety days from the date of such appeal in case of an entry at-any port east of the Rocly Mountains, or more than five months in case of an entry west of
those mountains." The view of the Circuit Court was, that.
under § 3011, there could be no suit against a collector to recover back an excess of duties paid on merchandise imported,.
unless the payment, in addition to being made under protest,
was made "in order to obtain possession" of the merchandise;
that § 2531 did not destroy the linitation imposed by § 3011
on the right to sue to recover back duties, or create any right
to sue independently of such limitation; and that, consequently,
as it was plain, as a fact, that the $2009.30 of duties liquidated
- and sought to be recovered were illegally imposed, the importers could not, after paying them, recover them back, but
could obtain the benefit of the exemption from the duty demanded by a defence in this suit, and by that means alone.
We concur in this vi.w, and are of opinion that the proper
construction of § 2931, in view of the fact that § 3011 is in
force concurrently with it, is, that the decision of the Secretary
of the Treasury is not final and conclusive, except in a case
where, after a protest and an appeal, a payment of duties -is
made in order to obtain possession of the goods, and then a
suit is not brought to recover back the duties within the times
and under the limitations prescribed by § 2931. That being
so, it is not final in the present case, there having been a payment of estimated duties, a delivery of the goods, a reliquidation assessing further duties, a protest, an appeal,*hnd a suit
against the importers by the United States to recover the
further duties.
The United States cite the decision of the District-Court of
the United States for the Southern District of New York in
United States v. Cousinery, 7 Ber. 252, and the cases of JTtt
v. United States, 15 Blatchford, 29, and United States v.
P1elpR., 17 Blatchford, 312, as sustaining th6 view maintained
by them. The first case cited was decided in April, 1874,
before the enactment of the Revised Statutes, in June, 1874;
the second case in July, 1878; and the third in November,
1879. But this court, in November, 1883, in -A'asorn v. XurVOL. cxx--8

OCTOBER TERM,
I

1886.

Opinion ofthe Court.

_pAy, 109 U. S. 238, a suit brought against a collector in 1879
.to recover back duties exacted in 1871, held that the only existing athority for such a suit was to be found in the provisions of §§ 3011 and 2931 taken together. In the opinion of
this court at October term, 1875, in Barney v. -Watson.,92 U,S.
449, a suit brought to recover back duties paid in Mlarch, 1864,
on an importation made in December, 1863, it was suggested
that the act of February 23, 1845, now § 3011, was supplied
by § 14 of the act of June 30, 1864, now § 2931, and was thus
repealed by implicatiqn. That case, however, ar6 se before the
act of June 30, 1864, was passed, and not under it, though
-adjudged here after it was enacted. But the decision in
Arnson.v. .3Zuohy was based on the view that. §§ 3011 and
2931 'coexist, and must be construed together. So, what was
held in United States v. Cousinery, under the idea that § 14
of the act of June 30, :1864, was the only statute to be considered, (and the act of February 26, 1845, is not alluded to
in the decision,) is of no force when §§ 3011 and 2931 are both
of them to be taken into consideration, as coexisting. The
same remarks apply to what was ruled, on the same basis, in
-UnitedStates v. Pheps.
In ctt v. United States, the suit was by the United States
to recover duties liquidated in 1876 on an importation made
in 1872, and there was no appeal after liquidation; and it was
held that for that reason the defendant could not attack the
liquidation.
Nor does anything in the decision in TVestiray v. United
States, 18 Wall. 322, control the present case. That case bad
reference, it is true, to § 14 of the act of June 30, 1864, and
the suit was one by the United States, on a bond given on the
entry of goods for warehousing, conditioned to pay the amount
of duties to be ascertained to be due and owing on the goods.
The duties were afterwards liquidated. The defendants, at
the trial, offered to show that the duties should have been less.
The evidence was excluded, on the ground that there had

been no appeal from the decision of the collector, and this
court sustained the ruling.
Judgmewt affrmed.

