OCTOBER TERM;, 1886.
Opinion of,-the Court.

tion, to such service in the city of :New York, would be natural,
service under the contract, and out of that city, and to Jersey
City, being specially provided for in the case of mails deliverable at a depot of the Pennsylvania Railroad, at Jersey City,
and service under the contract, and out of the city of New
York, being also provided for in, six other instances of delivery
in Jersey City, and one in Hoboken, and one in Long Island
City, at 'places to be reached, only by ferries.

Judgrent afflrned.

UNITED STATES v. COOPER.
'APPEAL FROM1 THE COURT OF CLAMI.
Submitted January 7, 1887. -Decided

January 24, 18S7.

There is nothing in the facts in this case to take it out of the operation of
United States v. Taylor, 104 U. S. 216, where, after consideration, it was
held that the act of August 5, 1861, ยง 36, 12 Stat. 304 was not repealed
by the act of June 7, 1862, 12 Stat. 422; that prior to the application of
the owner of the land sold for taxes for the surplus in the Treasury
aiising from the sale, he had no claim therefof which could be enforced
by suit against the United States; and that the statute of limitations
began to run against it only from the date of hi9 application.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.
ir.

Attorney General and ut. Hfeber J. 2fay for appellant.

2f.. Gilbert 3foyers for appellee.
MR. JUsTicE FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.
In June, 1864, certain parcels of real estate in the county of
Shelby, state of Tennessee, at that time the property of John
C. Cooper, were sold by the United States tax commissioners
for direct taxes, under the act of Congress of August 5, 1861,
and acts amendatory thereof. 12 Stat., pp. 292, 304, c. '45 and
c. 98, p. 422. The taxes, including charges and commissions,
amounted to $33.35. The property was sold for $425. The
surplus, after payment of the taxes, charges, and commissions,

UNITED STATES v. COOPER.
Opinion of the Court.

was paid into the Treasury of the United States. For this
surplus, amounting to $391.45, Cooper presented a claim to the
Secretary of the Treasury in August, 1882, which was disallowed in April, 1884, and he thereupon brought this suit in
the Court of Claims, and obtained a judgment for the amount,
from which the United States have appealed.
The grounds of the appeal, as set forth by counsel of the
government, are not sustained by the record. The Court of
Claims found that, in 1865, the claimant sold the property,
subject to the tax title; and, in 1882, released to the governient, and those claiming under it, all his interest, to secure it
against a second payment of the surplus. Upon these findings,
counsel assume that the claimant retained possession of the
property after tho tax sale; and that he sold it to a third person for a valuable consideration, regardless of the sale and conveyance by the tax commissioners. But there wa. no evidence
that ihe claimant was in' possession, either' at the time of the
sale or afterwards; nor does it appear that the claimant ever
asserted ownership over the property after the tax sale, and
sold it, regardless of that sale, for a valuable consideration.
Ills sale was made subject t6 the ta.x title, and could, therefore,
have been of nothing more than his right to redeem the property from the tax sale, and the consideration paid is not stated.
Of course it is not necessary to consider the argument founded
upon these assumed facts, however ingeniously framed or however replete with learning.
The thirty-sixth section of the act of August 5, 1861, in prescribing the manner in which property subject to a direct tax
shall be sold, where it is not divisible, so that by a sale of a
part the whole amount of the tax, with costs, charges, and
commissions, may be raised, provides that "the surplus of the
proceeds of the sale, after satisfying the tax, costs, charges, and
commissions, shall be paid to the owner of the property, or his
legal representatives; or if he or they cannot be, found, or
lelkse to receive the same, then such surplus shall be deposited
in the Treasury of the United States, to be there held for the
use of the owner or his legal representatives, until he o: they
shall make application therefor to the Secretary of the Treas-

126,,

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Syllabus.

ury, who, upon such application, shall, by warrant on the
Treasury, cause the kame to -be paid to the applicant." 12
Stat., c. 45,;ยง 36, p. 304.
In Udted States v. Taylor, 104 U. S. 216, this s6ction was
the subject of consideration by this court; and it was held that
it was not repealed by .th- act of June 7,1862'; that prior to
the application of the owner for the surplus, he has no claim
therefor which can b3 enforced by suit against the United
States; and that the statute of limitations begins to run against
it only from the date of his application. This decision covers
the present case. It is of no consequence to the government
what th'e claimant did with his right of redemption; it was
never .exercised by him or the purchaser from him, assuming
.that it could .havebeen enforced, and the time for its assertion
has long since elapsed. The United States did not guarantee
the title it gave upon the tax sale; and it does not appear that
the levy or the proceedings for the sale have ever been called
in question. If the sale was for any reason invalid, and the
United States could be held to indemnify the owner therefor,
the release by his quitclaim of all interest in the property
would secure the government against any claim on that
account.
' We see no valid ground for the refasal of the Secretary of
the Treasury to comply with the command of the law and pay
to the claimant the money which the government has always
held as trustee for him, and payable on his application.
Jvdgmen ctffrrned.

UNITED STATES v. SAUNDERS.
AFPPEAL FROM THE COURT OF C0

.

Submitted January 7, 1887. Decided January 23, 1887.

A clerk in the offlce of the President of the United States, who is also appointed to be the clerk of a committee of Congress, and who performs
the duties of both positions, is entitled to receive the comp'ensation
appropriated and allowed by law for each.

