WINCHESTER' -v.

HEISELL.

Opinion of the Court.

case, not already paid by the appellant. " A copy of this 6rder
may be certified to the colrt below so that it may be carried
into effect by an appropriate order of that court upon, the
receiver.
The, motion papers now. on file do not show that the matters
involved in the appeal in'No. 1201 are of a character to make
it proper to direct that the clerk's costs and the expense of
printing the record in that ease be paid by the receiver. Except as to the payment of clerk's fees and printer's charges in
No. 165 as above, the motions are overruled.
.Motion,9ranted in part dnd denied in part as to jrst suit;
and denied as to second.

WINOHESTER v. HEISKELL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF TENNESSEE.
Submitted January25, 1887.-Decded January 31, 1887.

The court restates what was decided in Winchester v. Heiskell, 119 U. S. 450,.
and, on petition for rehearing, adheres to it.

Tnis was a petition for a rehearing in the case decided in 119
U. S. 450-453.
Mre. B. X. Zstes for the petitioner.
MR. CIF

JUSTIcE

W~ir

delivered the opinion of tle"

court.
This petition is denied, but inasmuch as the petitionersthink
that the points on which they relied for a reversal of the judgment were not clearly understood, we will restate what was.
decided.
1. We held that, as the suit of Townsend v. Jones was pencIing when Townsend filed his petition in bankruptcy, and when
he made his assignment to Winchester, the assignee, WinchesvoL. cxx-18

OCTOBER ,TERM, 1886.
Syllabus.

ter, as such assignee, had the right to appear in that suit and
have the amount due Heiskell, Scott, & Heiskell determined.
It may be that, according to the practice in Tennessee, if he
had not appeared, Heiskell, Scott, & Heiskell would have been
compelled to bring a new suit to have the amount ?f their Alen
ascertained; but as he did appear and did ask to have the matter adjudicated in that suit, he was bound by-what was done.
As the court had declared the lien, it was within its jurisdiction
to ascertain, with the consent of all the parties, the amount
that was due under the lien and make the necessary order for
its enforcement as against those who were parties to that suit.
About this we have no doubt.
2. We said: "The question here is, not whether that decree
thus rendered binds these appellants, (plaintiffs in error,) but
whether the state court had jurisdiction so as to bind those
who were parties to the suit, and those whom the parties in
law represented." The assignee having.voluntarily made himself a party to the suit, and the court having at his request
settled the amount of the lien, he was bound by what was done,
and so were all whom he in law represented in the litigation.
That certainly includes the general creditors of the bankrupt;
but whether it does those claiming under the trust deed from
Townsend, before his bankruptcy, to George IV. Winchester,
trustee, we did not then and do not now decide.

IN
APP'FA

FROM THE THIRD

RE SNOW
JUDICIAL

COU=nT,

DISTRICT COURT, SALT LAXE

UTAH.

Argued J.nuary 21, 1837.-Decided February 7,1887.

Where a District Court in the Territory of Utah refuses to issue a writ of
habeas cot/pus involving the question of personal freedom, an appeal lies
tO this court from its order and judgment of refusal.
The offence of cohabiting with more than one woman, created by ยง,3 of the
act of Congress of Mlarch 22, 1882, c. 47, 22 Stat. 31, is a continuous

offence, and not one consisting of an isolated act.

