FORSYT"

v. DOOLITTLE.

Opinion of the Court.

FORSYTH v. DOOLITTLE.
'ERROR

TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
Argued December 21, 2, 1886.-Decided January 17, 1877.

In Illinois when a declaration in an action at law alleges a joint liability of
two defendants, aplea in bar which doeg not traverse this allegation admits
it, and makes the declarations of one defendant not served with process
evidence against the other who has appeared and answered.
In an action by an attorney to recover for services rendered in defending
4 suit for the foreclosure of a mortgage upon a tract of land near a large
town, and in preventing the foreclosure, and in bringing about a favorable sale of the property, evidence as to the- character of the land and
its possible'value as a future suburb of the town is admissible.
As the length of hypothetical statements presented to a witness to ascertain
his opinion upon any matter, growing out of the facts supposed, necessdrily depends upon the simple or complicated character of the transactions
recited, and upon the number of particulars which must be considered
fir the formation of the opinion desired, it must in a great degree he
left to the discretion of the c6urt; and in this case that'liscretion was
properly exercised.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.
.Mr'. Joseph B.cDonald
.
and 2fP. Joh* _.f _Butler for
plaintiff in error.
iXfr. J. R. Doolittle, 2fr. : .B. Doolittle, Jr., and .Ar. .elyille IV.Filerfor defendants in error.
MRh. JUSTICE

FrEn

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action to recover compensation for services rendered by the plaintiffs below to the defendants, in effecting a
sale of certain lands in Indiana, and in various legal proceedings concerning the title, or claims -gainst them. The declaration alleges a joint contract and liability by the defendants
below, Caroline Forsyth and Jacob Forsyth, her husband; but
the summons was served on her only. She . appeared and
pleaded the general issue. A statute of Illinois prov des that

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

in actions on contractsj express or implied, against two or more
defendants as partners, joint obligors, or payors, proof of their
joint liability or partnership shall not be required to entitle
the plaintiff to judgment, unless such proof shall be rendered
necessary by a plea in abatement, or a plea in bar, denying
the partnership or joint liability, verified by affidavit. The
joint contract and liability of the defendants, therefore, stood
admitted by the pleadings, and this is a sufficient answer to
several objections taken to the admissibility of statements and
the proof of acts of the defendant, Jacob Forsyth. Being
jointly liable with Caroline on 'the contract in suit, his declarations respecting the services rendered under it were as admissible as if made by her.
The services for which compensation is sought were not only
those required of attorneys and counsellors at law, but were
also those of negotiators seeking to accomplish' the result desired, by consultation with proposed purchasers, and presentation to them of the advantages to be derived from the property,
present and prospective. Varied as were the legal services of
the plaintiffs, it is plain from the testimony that those rendered
by negotiation'and consultation, and presentation of the uses
to which the property could be dpplied, were far more effective
and important. This fact necessarily had a controlling weight
in estimating the value of the services. It is difficult to apply
to such services any fixed standard by which they can be measured, and their.value determined, as can be done with reference
to services puriely professional. There is a tact and skill and
a happy manner with some persons, which render them successful as negotiators, while others of equal learning, attainments, and intellectual ability, fail for the want of those qualities. The compensation to be made' in such cases is, by the
ordinary judgment of business men, measured by the results
obtained. It is not limited by the time occupied or the labor
- bestowed. It is from overlooking the difference in the rule by
which compensation is measured in such cases, and that in
cases where the services are strictly of a professional nature,
that several objections are urged for reversal of the judgment
recovered, which, if this difference were regarded, would not
be, seriously pressed.

FORSYTH v. DOOLITTLE.
Opinion of the -Court.

The services rendered related to so many different subjects,
that it would require a long narrative to describe them with
much detail.

It is sufficient for the consideration of the ques-

tions not disposed of by what has already been said, to state
generally the main facts of the case. Caroline Forsyth, foe
several years before the employment of the plaintiffs, had been
the owner of a tract of land consisting of 8000 acres in India'a,
about sixteen miles from Chicago. Only about 1000 acres of
it were fit for cultivation.. The princip4l value of tlie tract was
owing to its proximity to Chicago, and to the belief that it
could be made use of for manufacturing and commercial purposes as a suburb of that city. It .yielded no revenue; there
were taxes due upon it, and portions of it had been sold for,
taxes. It was subject to a mortgage for $163,000, executed in
1875, upon a loan of $100,000, which, with the stipulated interest to maturity, amounted to that-sum; and a suit had been
commenced by its holders in the Circuit Court of the United
States in Indiana for its foreclosure, and the sale of the premises.
The defendants were without means to meet the mortgage
debt or pay the taxes due, or even the expenses of agents dealing with the property, and relied entirely upon effecting a sale
to obtain what was needed for these several demands. The
defendants had previously made an effort to gell the property
to a stock company in London, and had signed certain documents for thit purpose. The company claimed a right to a
conveyance pursuant to a contract made upon the supposed
authority of those documents.. Another party, by-the name
of Home, claimed that he had~negotiated a sale, and was demanding $50,000 for his services.
It was when the .property was in this condition, and when
its entire loss seemed highly probable, from the inability of
the defendants to meet the demands pressing for payment,
that the plaintiffs were retained to help them out of their
complicated embarrassments and effect a sale of the property,
the defendants promising them, in case .of success, compensation which should be "large, liberal, and generous." "The
plaintiffs entered upon their employment, and during flie i4

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

lowing nine months, by arduous labor, constant negotiation,
and great tact, they accomplished what was desired. The suit
to foreclose the mortgage was resisted, and its dismissal obtained. The property was sold for one million of dollars, onethird of which was paid in cash, and the balance secured by
mortgage on the property. The existing mortgage was then
redeemed, a large reduction from the amount claimed having
been first obtained. The taxes and other debts were paid,
and the claim of Hforne was compromised and settled. A suit
commenced pending these proceedings by the trustee of the
London stock company to compel a conveyance of the property, was defended and ultimately defeated. It would serve
no useful purpose to .detail the number of particulars in which
the skill and tact of the plaintiffs were exhibited. The claim
made by them for compensation was resisted, and this action
was thereupon brought. The jury found that it should have
been $40,000, and gave their verdict for that amount. Of the
justice of this amount we are not to determine. We are called
upon only to see whether any error was committed in the
manner in which the case was submitted to the jury.
We see nothing in the objection that evidence was admitted
as to the character of the land sold, or its possible value as a
future suburb of Chicago. Its character in this respect might
increase or diminish the chances of its sale. The only points
which we find in the record calling for examination arose from
the hypothetical statements submitted to witnesses, with inquiry as to the value of the services thus supposed to have
been rendered. There were such hypothetical statements
upon five subjects, which eIbraced matters that were to be
disposed of before the consummation of the contract of sale.
They embody i ith some fulness the matters supposed by the
plaintiffs to have been established, and it was only upon that
assumption that the opinions of the witnesses as to the value
of the services rendered were given. If the assmnption was
erroneous, if the matters supposed to be established were not
in the judgment of the jury in truth-stablished, the opinions
went for nothing; and so the court instracted the jury. Its
language was as follovs:

FORSYTH v. DOOLITTLE.
Opinion of the Court.

"As to the questions, you must understand that they are
not evidence; they are mere statements to these witnesses,
called by the respective parties, of what the party putting
these questions claims the proof 'shows was the nature and
amount of plaintiff's services rendered; and, upon the hypothesis or assumption of these questions the witnesses are asked
to give their estimate of the value of these services. You
must readily see that the value of the answers to these questions depends largely, if not wholly, upon the fact whether the
statements made in these questions are sustained by the proof.
if the statements in these questions are not supported by the
proof, then the answers to the questions are entitled to no
weight, because based upon false assumptions or statements of
facts."
And as to the estimate of the value placed by the witnesses
upon the services, the language of the court to the jury was as
follows:
"You are not bound by the estimate which these witnesses
have put upon these services. They are proper to be considered by you, as part of the proof bearing upon the question
of value, as the testimony of men.experienced in such matters,
and whose judgment may aid yours. But it is your duty, after
all, to settle and determine this question of value from all the
testimony in the case, hnd to award to the plaintiffs such
amount, by your verdict, as the proof satisfies you is a re.wonable compensation for the services which, from the proof, you
find plaintiff rendered, after deducting the amount thc plaintiffs have already received for such services."
The length of the hypothetical statements is urged as an
objection to them. They were lengthy even without the exhibits, which constituted the larger portion; but the court
took especial care to impress upon the jury that they were not
to consider the statements as facts in the case, but merel v as
assumptions of the party propounding the questions. (Cowley
v. T]ie ,eople, 83 N. Y. 464, 470. The witnesses do not
arlar to have been confused by their length; they expressed
no inability to. fully comprehend them. Nor did the court,
though complaining of their length; indicate that they were

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Statement of Facts.

unintelligible to the jury, or tended in any way to turn their
minds from the points in issue.
The length of hypothetical statements presented to a witness
to ascertain his opinion upon any matter- growing out of the
facts supposed, will necessarily depend upon the simple or complicated character of the transactions recited, and the number
of particulars which must be considered for the formation of
the opinion desired. And this subject, like the extent to
which the examination of a witness may be allowed, must, in
a great degree, be left to the discretion of the court.
We do not see that the rights of the defendants were at all
prejudiced -by them.
The judgment, therefore, must be
affirmed; and it is so ordered.

.4ffirmed.

HUNTINGTON

v. SAUNDERS.

APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.
Argued December 22, 1886. -Decided

January 17, 1887.

While creditor who finds specific property of his debtor in the hands of
the debtor's wife to whom it had been assigned by the debtor before bankruptcy rdiy follow it and have it appropriated to the payment of his
debt, a jtidgment in personam for its value cannot be taken against her
in case the property itself cannot be found.
hipps v. Sedgwicl, 95
U. S. 3, and Trust Co. v. Sedgwick, 97 U. S, 301, affirmed.
A bill in equity against husband and wife by the assignees in bankruptcy
of the husband, which alleges that the husband before the bankruptcy
transferred a large amount of personal property in the form of bonds,
stocks, &c.,,to the wife for the purpose- of concealing the same f rom his
creditors, and delaying, hindering, and defrauding them, and in contemplation of bankruptcy, and which does not describe the property, but
avers inability to do so, and wvlfth waives answer under oath and asks
as relief for a transfer to the assignee of the property in whatever form
it may exist, as assets of the bankrupt, sets forth no case for relief in
equity, and should be dismissed on demurrer.
THIS was a bill in equiity~which was dismissed on demurrer.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.

