268

OCTO3ER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

The judgment in each of the cases is reversed, ad the causes
remanded, with instructions to enter judgment upon the
agreedfacts infalvor of the importers in the suit against
the collector, and-against the United Staytes in the suit
againstthe importers.

BANK OF 3MAYSVILLE v. CLAYPOOL.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITRD STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF WEST'VIRGINIA.
Submitted January 20, 187. -Decided

January 31, 1887.

An application for the removal of a case from a state court, filed not only
after the trial had begun, but when it had progressed far enough to get a
verdict of the jury subject only to the decision of the coirt on questions
presented by a demurrer to the evidence, is clearly too late.

THE case is stated in tJ e opinion of the court.

Ar. B. 1. Smith for plaintiff in error.
3J r.J. 1oldsworth Gordon,for defendants in error.
Mit.

CmitF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a writ of error for the review of an order of a District Court, having Circuit Court jurisdiction,' renianding a
cause which had been removed from a state court under ยง 2 of
the act of March 3, 1875, c.137, IS Stat. 470, on the ground
of citizenship. The record shows a suit begun by the Bank of
Maysville in the Circuit .Court of Kenawha County, West Virginia, September 24, 1877, against .Claypool, as maker, and
Thayer; as indorser, of a promissory note. After a .demurrer,
which was overruled, a plea was filed November 26, on which
the parties went t6 trial the same day before a jury. After
the eyidence on the part of the plaintiff was all in, the defendant Thayer prayed judgment because on the facts proven no
case had been made out against him. The jury, under instruc-

BANK OF

MHAYSVILLE v. CtAYPOOL.

269

Opinion of the Court.

tions from the court, found the amount due on the note, "subject to the judgment of the court on the demurrer to the
evidence," and were discharged. Afterwards, on the 10th ofJanuary, 1878, the bank moved for leave to amend its declaration so as to show that it was a corporation created by.Ahe
laws of the State of Kentucky, "and existing in said state of
Kentucky." This motion was denied, and -t'he bank 'then
moved for leave "to withdraw its joinder to the defendants'
demurrer to the plaintiff's evidence," and that the verdict be
set aside and a new trial granted. While these motions were
pending undisposed of, the bank filed its petition for the iimoval of the suit to the District Court of the United States
sitting at Charleston, on the ground that the plaintiff was a
Kentucky corporation and the defendants were citizens of
West Virginia. Objection was made by the defendants, on
the 4th of November, 1879, to the entry of the case in the District Court, but this objection was overruled, and the cause
docketed by orde of the court Nov mber 17 1880. Thereupon the demurrer to the evidence was argued and submitted
to the court.
On the 6th of December, 1880, there was filed in this court
a petition by the defendant Thayer, sworn to September 13,
1880, for a rule on the district judge to show cause why a
mandamus should not issue requiring him .to remand the suit.
In this petition it did not appear, that the court had taken any
action in the matter, and it was denied because no application
had been made for an order to remand. In the opinion it was
said: "We cannot doubt that if such an application is male it
will be promptly granted if the facts are as they axe stateea
here. The petition for removal was not filed in the state
court until after both trial and verdict, when the law requires
it should be filed before. or at the term at which the cause
could be first tried, and before the trial thereof." Afterwards,
May 7, 1883, a motion to remand was made by Thayer and at
once granted by the court. To review that ordbr this writ of
error was brought.
In the Removal Cases, 100 U. S.457, which were decided
December 15, 1879, it. was held that a petition for removal

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

under the act of 1875 to be in time must be "presented to the
court before the trial is in good faith entered uiion," and we
there said, p. 473: "There may be exceptions to this rule; but
we think it clear that Congress did not intend, by the expression 'before trial,' to allow a party to experiment on his case
in the state court, and, if he met with unexpected difficulties,
stop the proceedings and take his suit to another tribunal.
But, to bar the right of removal, it must appear that the trial
had actually begun and was in progress in the orderly course
of proceeding when the application was made. No mere att6mpt of one party to put himself on record' as having begun
the trial is enough. The case must be actually on trial by the
court, all the parties acting in good faith, before the right of
removal is gone." This rule was recognized and followed in
JifkAins v. Sweether, 102 IU.S. 177, 179, and Alley v. .lott,.111
U. S. 472, and must now be considered as settled. Clearly,
therefore, this application for removal came too late. When
it was filed, the trial had not only begun, but it had progressed
far enough to get a verdict of a jury, subject only to the decision of the court on the questions presented by the demurrer to
the evidence.
In this connectibn it is proper to say'that the ruling in the
Removal "Cases was not probably known to the district judge
when his order to docket the cause was made, because the volume of our reports in which those cases are found was not
published and generally distributed until a very considerable
time after our adjournment for the term in May, 1880. The
court did not actually proceed- in the case after it was docketed, further than to take it on the submission of the demurrer
to the evidence made at that time, and the order to remand
was granted as soon as a motion to that effect was made by
the bank.
Die order remandlng the case isaff rmed.

