OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

'INDIANAPOLIS ROLLING MILL v. ST. LOUIS, FORT
SCOTT & WICHITA RAILROAD.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITEID STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF KAINSAS.
Submitted January 7, 187.-Decided January31, 1887.

The president of a manufacturing corporation who is also its superintendent, having general authority to contract by parol contract without the
corporate seal for making and delivering its manufactured goods, has
like authority, unless the power is withdrawn, to authorize the termination
and release of such a contract.
A board of directors of a corporation to whom the president of the company communicates his execution of a contract on the part of the corporation, which is within its corporate powers but unauthorized by the
board, will be presumed to ratify his act unless it dissents within a reasonable time; and a delay in the disaffirmance of six months after knowledge of the act is an unreasonable delay.

Tins was an action at law on a contract for the sale and
purchase of railroad iron. Judgment for defendant. Plaintiff sued out this writ of error.
ion of the court.

The case is stated in the opin-

-r. HI C. ]ecDougal for plaintiff in error.
_MP. ohn F. Dillo and Jib. J. H. Riohard8 for defendant
in error.
MR. JusTiCE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Kansas.
The plaintiff in error, which was also the plaintiff below, is
a corporation existing under the laws of Indiana, and doing
business in that state. The defendant in error is a corporation
of the State of Kansas. The latter company, while building
its railroad, contracted, on the 8th day of October, 1881, with
the former for the purchase oi iron rails. The contract was

ROLLING MILL v. ST. LOUIS, &c., RAILROAD.

257

Opinion of the.Court.

for ten thousand tons, to be delivered, during the period between October and June inclusive, on board of the railroad
cars at Indianapolis. A jury was waived and the case was
tried before the court, which made a finding of facts on which
it declared the law to be for the defendant, and rendered judgment accordingly.
During the trfal the defendant company produced a release,
apparently executed by the plaintiff company, from the obligation of the contract to receive and pay for the iron, except
so far as it had been fulfilled, and upon the validity of this re-lease the decision depends.
It appears from the facts found by the court that the plaintiff was in the habit of receiving payment for iron delivered,
by drafts on the defendant, payable in 2ew York, and that
Moran Brothers were the financial agents of the defendant,
through whom such payments were made; that drafts to the
amount of $54,000 were due on the 4th day of October, 1882,
and the company, being hard pressed for money, asked an extension of payment, which was granted for four months; that
when these drafts again fell due they were protested for nonpayment, and the defendant company was insolvent, which
fact was well kmown to the plaintiff. It appears, also, that
Mr. Thomas, who was the treasurer of the plaintiff company,
Visited New York and called upon the firm of Moran Brothers,
at whose banldng-house said drafts were payable, and endeavored to induce them to pay the drafts, but that Moran Broth-ers, who had no funds of the defendant's at the time, declined
to do so, but finally said: "We, Moran Brothers, will pay
these drafts if you will sign a release for the balance of the
contract." To this Mr. Thomas replied that he was not authorized to execute such a release, but he communicated with Mr.
Jones, who was the president and superintendent of the company, and obtained from him authority to acc.ept the money
and sign the release. This was accordingly done, the release
being dated ""New York, 8th February, 1883," and signed
"Indianapolis Rolling Mill Co., by T. Thomas, treasurer."
It is said by the plaintiff that 11r. Thomas had no authority
to execute this release, or to make this contract, and, thereVOL. cx-x-17

258

OCTOBER TER-k, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

fore, it is void. Bearing upon this proposition, it is found as
a matter -of fact by the court, that Mr. Jones was. president
and Mr. Thomas treasurer at the time of this transaction. The
-original contract for the sale of the iron is executed by Mr.
Jones, as president, without the seal of'the company, and there
is no evidence, of any resolution of the .board of directors authorizing. or approving that contract. The by-laws of the
plaintiff corporation, as the court finds, declare that the superintendent, who in this case was Mr. Jones, "shall have charge
of the works, property, and operations of the company, and
shall employ all operatives and certify all wages due and other
expenditures to the secretary, . . . and shall, with the approval of the president, buy and sell material and make all
contracts for the same, and for work," &c. And the court
further finds that under this by-law Mr. Jones had the power
to buy and sell material, and to make all contracts for the
same. Another by-law declares that "the superintendent and
all other persons shall in all cases be subject to the control of
the, board of directors, in everything where the board shall
elect to exercise such control; " and the court finds that, in
the making of the original contract sued on, and in the extension of the time for the payment of drafts, as hereinafter mentioned, the board of directors of plaintiff did not at any time
or in any way elect .to exercise the control over its officers
given said board by said by-lawrs.
The court further finds "that, after the return of Mr.
Thomas from the city of New York to indianapolis, some
time in March, there was a meeting of the board of directors
of plaintiff, at whih the validity of the release executed by
Mfr. Thomas was discussed; but the records do not show that
at that particular meeting any .definite action was taken; that
the directors at that meeting did in fact agree t6 submit the
question to counsel of plaintiff, let him investigate it, and then
act upon his advice; that about two years after this meeting
and a year and a half after this suit was commenced, a nune
pro tunc entry was made upon the records of plaintiff of the
proceedings of plaintiff's board of directors, which showed
a repudiation upon the part of the board of directors of the

ROLLING MILL v. ST.

,6pIS,

&c., RAILROAD.

259

'Opinion of the Court.

release so executed, and that this suit was originally institutedin this court at the first term thereof after the execution of
the release."
We concur with the court below that on the facts thus
stated the release, was a valid release. Its execution was of
that class of bupiness which, under the by-laws of the corpora.
tion and the course of business between these parties-, had
been confided to the president and superintendent, both of
which offices were held by Mr. Jones. The direction given
by Mr. Jones to the treasurer, Mr. Thomas, both of whomwere also directors in the corporation, Was within the line of
his authority. He had under this same authority, without
any express resolution or ratification of the board of directors,
made the contract on which this suit is brought; and it would
seem that, not being under seal, a simple contract concerning
the ordinary business of the company, the same power which..
enabled him to make it was sufficient to enable him to release
it, unless the power had been withdrawn.
--Another principle leads to .the same result. These by-laws
show that the board of directors retained the power in their
hands to control the president and superintendent in any
transaction, whenever it was thought proper to do so. This
matter was reported to J he directors; they had *a meeting.
upon the subject some six weeks after the whole thing had
been consummated, and after they had received the benefit
of the release by the payment of their drafts. The rule of
law upon the subject of the disaffirmance or ratifiction ofthe
acts of an agent required that if they had the right to disaffirm it they should do it pr6mptly, ard, if after a reasonable
time they did not so disaffirm it, a ratification would be presumed. In regard to this it appears that the board, when
notified of what had been done by their agents, did not disaffirm their action at that time, but that the act or resolution
of disaffirmance was passed about two years -after notice of
the transaction, and that if the suit brought in this case can
be considered as an act of disaffirmanqe, it came too late, as it.
was commenced some six months after they had knowledge
of the release.- As was stated in the somewhat analogous

260"*,

OCTOBER TERhf, 1886.
Syllabus.

case of the Twin-Lick Oil Co.. v. Jiarbury, 91 U. S. 592,."the
authorities to the point of the necessity of the exercise of the
right of rescinding or avoiding a contract or transaction as
,oon as it may be reasonably done, after the party, with whom
that right is optional, is aware of the facts which gave him
that option, are numerous.

.

.

.

The more important arb

as follows: Badger v. Badger, 2 Wall. 87 ; Harwood v. 1. 1?.
Co., 17 id. 78; 2arsh,v. lVtmore, 21 id. 178; Tigers v.
Pike, 8 01. & Fin. 650; TFentworth v. Iloyd, '32 Beav. 467;
Follansbee v. Kilreth, 17 Ill. 522; .C. 65 Am. Dec. 691."
See also Gold i3Iining Co. v. National Bank, 96 U. S. 640;
Law v. Cross, 1 Black, 533.
It is said that the release was without consideration, because
M oran Brothers had the means in their hands to pay the
drafts, of the property of the defendants, but we think the
finding of facts clearly disproves that; indeed, the court found,
as a matter of fact, that the defendants were then insolvent,
and that Moran Brothers had no funds in their hands out of
which they could have paid the drafts. It is obvious, therefore, that the consideration for this release was the voluntary
payment by Moran Brothers of the existing protested drafts
of the plaintiff company out of their own means and not out
of the means Of the defendant corporation. We think this
was a sufficient consideration to support the release.
therefore, afirmed.
The judgment o the Circuit Court is,

BEARD v., NICHOLS.
ERROR TO THE

CIRCOIXT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF AIASSACHUSETTS.

.Argued December 22, 188.-Decided January 31, 1887.

Webbing made of india-rubber, wool, and cotton, and known as "wool elastic 'webbing," is subject to duty as webbing made of wool, or of'which
-wool is a component material, at fifty cents per. pound and in addition
thereto fifty per cent: ad valorem; and not as webbing composed wholly
or in part of india-rubber, it thirty-five per cent. ad valorem.

