OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Statement of Facts.

PEOPLE'S SAVINGS BANK v. BATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE .UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF MICHIGAN.
Argued November 16,17, 1886.-Decided March 7, 1887.

li Michigan, when a chattel mortgage is attacked as fraudulent against
subsequent creditors or mortgagees in good faith, by reason of the mortgagor being permitted to remain in possession and to prosecute his business in the ordinary way, it is the province of the jury to determine
whether such fraud is proved; but when the evidence is overwhelming,
and leaves no room for doubt as to what the fact is, the court may give
the jury a peremptory instruction covering the issue.
In Michigan a creditor at large cannot attack a chattel mortgage made by
the debtor, except through some judicial process, whereby he acquires
an interest in the property; as by levy of attachment or execution.
In Michigan be mortgagee in a chattel mortgage, given to secure a preexisting. debt, is not a " mortgagee in good faith," within the intent of the
statute of that state which provides that every such mortgage "which
shall not be accompanied by an immediate delivery, and followed by an
actual and continued change of possession of the things mortgaged,
shall be absolutely void as against the creditors of the mortgagor, and
as against subsequent purchasers or mortgagees in good faith, unless the
mortgage, or a true copy thereof, shall be filed" in the place or places indicated in the act.
The doctrine that the bonafide holder for value of negotiable paper, transferred as security for an antecedent debt merely, and without other circumstances, is ufiaffected by equities or defences between prior parties
of which he had no notice, does not apply to instruments conveying realor personal property as security, in consideration only of preexisting
indebtedness.

Tns was an action of replevin involving conflicting claims
under certain chattel mortgages executed by Freedman Bros. &
Co., formerly merchants in the city of Detroit. *Thefirm was
composed of Herman Freedman, who managed its business in
Detroit; Benjamin'Fre'edman, who resided in New York, and
had entire charge of the buying and of the firm's financial affairs in that city; and Rosa Freedman. At the beginning of
the action the mortgaged property was in the custody' of Leopold Freud as agent of the People's Savings Bank, plaintiff in
error.

PEOPLE'S SAVINGS BANK a. " BATES.
Statement of Facts.

Bates, Reed & Cooley, the defendants in error, who were
the plaintiffs below, claimed priority under a mortgage given
by Freedman Bros. & Co., February 7, 1881, to secure both the
past indebtedness of the latter amounting to forty-five thousand dollars and upwards, for goods, wares, and merchandise
sold, and money loaned, to them, and any future liabilities
which might be incurred by the mortgagors for other goods
purchased, or other moneys borrowed, from the mortgagees;
the mortgage, covering not only the goods, wares, merchandise, and other personal property then in the m6rtgagors'
stores in Detroit, but also their notes, book accounts, and securities, and all future additions -to, or substitutions for, such
goods an. merchandise. INo part of said indebtedness was
created at the time of the execution of the mortgage.
The People's Savings Bank claimed under a mortgage made
by Freedman Bros. & Co., on the 11th of February, 1881, to
secure certain demand notes, aggregating forty-nine thousand
dollars, which were executed by that firm on the 7th day of
February, 1881, and also "all other paper indorsed" by it and
held by the bank; that mortgage covering all the goods and
merchandise then in the mortgagors' stores and all thereafter
put into them. This last m6mtgage provided that Leopold
Freud, the bank's agent, shQuld take immediate possession and
sell the goods in the ordinary course of business, applying the
proceeds to said indebtedness until the same was paid. The
said demand notes represented past indebtedness; for they
were given in place of other- paper of the mortgagors then.
outstanding, and which had not then matured. Each demand
note was accompanied by a cognovit or "confession of judgnment," under which, however, no a6tion was taken. The
mortgage to the bank was the firstone filed in the proper office in Detroit, though it was not lodged until after the bank
had notice, through its agent, that Bates, Reed & Cooley
claimed to be in possession of or to have ights in the inortgaged property. Whether the bank, before the mortgage to
it was given, had actual notice of the prior mortgage to Bates,
,Reed & Cooley does not clearly appear.
By the statutes of Michigan relating to chattel mortgage

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Argu ennt for Plaintiff in Error.

it was provided that "every mortgage, or conveyance intended
to operate as a mortgage, of goods and chattels, which shall
hereafter be made, which shall not be accompanied by an
immediate delivery, and followed by an actual and continued
change of possession of the things mortgaged, shall be absolutely void as against the creditors of the mortgagor, and as
against subsequent purchasers or mortgagees in good faith,
unless the mortgage, or a true copy thereof, shall be filed in
the office of the township clerk of the township, or city clerk
of the city, or city recorder of cities having no officer known
as city elerk, where the mortgagor resi~les, except when the
mortgagor is a non-resident of the state, when the mortgage,
or a true copy thereof, shall be filed in the office of the township clerk of the township, or city clerk of the city, or city
recorder of cities having no officer known as city clerk, where
the property is." 2 Howell's Annotated Statutes, pp. 1607,
1610, ยง 6193.

Jr'r. Jo n Atkinson (.rr. James T. Keena, ,lbr. Ashley
Pond, and 1l1r. George V. N. Lothrop were with him on the
brief) for plaintiffs in error cited: Robinson v. Elliott, 22
Wall. 513; Fearey v. Cimiinng., 41 IMich. 376; Putnam v.
Reynolds, 44 Mich. 113; Talcott v. Lripj)en, 52 Mich. 633;
Oliver v. Eaton, 7 Mich. 108; Gay v. Bidwell, 7 Mich. 519;
Lucking v. lVessonr, 25 Mich. 443; Garder v. 3Jlatteson, 38
Mich. 200; -ohl v. Zynn, 34 Mich. 360; Gill v. Griffith, 2
Maryland Ch. 270; -Farringtonv. Sexton, 43 Mich. 454; Lee
v. B own,, 7 Geo. 275; Frost v. Godclard, 25 Maine, 414;
S7taw v. Levy, 17 S. & R. 99; Winslow v. Leonard, 24 Penn.
St. 14; 1 Lanfear v. Sumner, 17 Mass. 110 [S. . 9 Am. Dec.
119]; Picker v. Cross, 5 N. H. 570 [S. C. 22 Am. Dec. 480];
Lamb v. .Durant,12 Mass. 54 [S. C. 7 Am. Dec. 31]; Frank
Y. Jfiner, 50 Ill. 444;- Constant v. 3latteson, 22 Ill. 546;
Atkyns v. Byrnes, 71 Ill. 326; Judson v. Corcoran, 17 How.
612; Smith v. Algar, 1 B. & Ad. 603; Long-idge v. .Dorvwle,
5 B. & Ald. 117; Burcharcl v. Frazer, 23 Mich. 2241;
Jones v. Graham, 77 N. Y. 628; Frisbey v. T2tayer, 25
1 S. C. 72 Am. Dec. 354.

PEOPLE'S SAVINGS

BANK v. BATES.

Argument for Defendants in Error.

Wend. 396; -Dickerson v. Tillinghast, 4 Paigg 215 [S. C.
eusen v. lRadcltl 17 K. Y.
25 Am. Dec. 528]; -an
an Fechten,
580 [S. C. 72 Am. Dec. 480]; YTornpson v.
27 N. Y. 568; Gaford v. Stearn, 51 Ala. 434; Short
v. Battle, 52 Ala. 456; Zorn v. Railroad Go., 5 S. C. 90;
Pancoast v. Duva, 26 N. J. Eq. (11 C. E. Greene) 445;
3Jlngus v. Condit, 23 K. J. Eq. (8 C., E. Greene) 313; Wells
63 Ind. 576;
V. .rorrow, 38 Ala. 125; Gilchrist v. Gqo
Stranglian v. Fairchild,80 Ind. 598; 21o'nning v. .icClure,
36 Ill. 490; Butters v. ilaughwout, 42 Ill. 18; .ranert v.
Smon, 65 Ill. 344; Cook v. Helms, 5 Wis. 107; Jenkins v.
Schlub, 14 Wis. 1; Paine v. Benton, 32 Wis. 491; Poxhero it v. Jlessick, 6 Ohio St. 448 [. C. 67 Am. Dec. 346] ;
Clevehend v. State Bank, 16 Ohio St. 236; Coplhnd v.
.Xaton, 22 Ohio St. 398; Atkinson v. Brooks, 26 VNt. 569
[S. C. 62 Am. Dec. 592]; Quinn v. Ia'ead, 43 -Vt. 375; Rusel v. S)palter, 47 Vt. 273; Stockdard v. -0imball, 6 Cush.
(Mass.) 469; Fisher v. Fiseer, 98 31ass. 303; Bank v. Car'-in gton, 5 R. I. 515 [S. C. 73 Am. Dec. 83]; Brush v. Scribner, 11 Conn. 388 [S. C. 29 Am. Dec. 303]; Bridgeport Cty
Bank4 v. TVelel, 29 Conn. 475; Stone v. Welling, 14 M[ich.
514, and cases cited; Railroad Co. v. IVat. Bank, 102 U. S.
14; Swift v. Tyson, 16 Pet. 1 ; Bayley v. Gieenleaf, 7 Wheat.
46: _Paylie v. Bensley, 8 Cal. 260 [8 C. 68 Am. Dec. 318].
31r. D. 31. Dickinson for defendants in error cited: Railroad
Co. v. Bank, 102 U. S. 14; Allan, v. 2Xus.yey, 17 Wall. 351;
Sv~iner v. Hicks, 2 Black. 532; Svw v. Ty.N:on, 16 Pet. 1, 15;
Outlite v. Porter, 13 Xich. 533; Boxheimer v. Gunn, 24
Mich. 372; Stone v. Welling, 14 Mich. 514; Kol v. _Lynn, 34
Mich. 360; XJury v. Tfoods, 33 Iowa, 26.5; Tho7we. v. Stone,
Walker (M1ich.), 117; Dixon v. Hill, 5 Mich. 404; TYarner v.
fWittakcr, 6 Mich. 133 [S. C 72 Am. Dec. 05]; Blanchlard v.
Tyler, 12 Mich. 339; Johnson v. Peck, 1 Woodb. & Min. 334;
Jlorse v. Go(dfey, 3 Story, 364; Pt;ion v. Jih app, 1 Dillon,
186; Atkinso. v. Brooks, 26 Vt. 569 [. C. 62 Am. Dec.
592]; Bay v. Coddington, 5 Johns. Ch. 54 [S. C. 9 Am. Dec.
268], affirmed 20 Johns. 636; WYeaver v. Barden, 49 . Y.

OCTOBER TERMI,

1886

Opinion of the Court.

26.; ihompson v. Van Yechten, 27 N. Y. 568 ; Cary v. W7~ite,
52 N. Y. 138; Jones v. Grahakr, 77 N. Y. 628; Jenness v.
Bean, 10 N. H. 266 [S. C. 34 Am. Dec. 152]; Ashton's Appeal,
73 Penn. St. 155; Boyd v. Beck, 29 Ala. 703; Spurlock v.
Sullivan, 36 Texas, 511; Johnson v. Graves, 27 Ark. 557;
Busenbrake v. Ramey, 53 Ind. 499; Gilchrist v. Gough, 63
Ind. 576; Ryan v. Chew, 13 Iowh, 589; Prentice v. Zane, 2
Gratt. 262;. Butters v. 1aughwout, 42 Ill. 18; -ranert v.
Simon, 65 Ill. 344; JKnox v. Hunt, 18 Missouri, 174; Bramhall v. Beckett, 31 Maine, 205; Brush v. Scribner, 11 Conn.
388 S. C. 29 Am. Dec. 303]; Lela$.l v. Collver, 34 Mich. 418;
American Cigar Co. v. Foster, 36 Mich. 368; Peoqpe v. Bristol, 35 M ich. 28; Tingler v. Sibley, 35 Mich. 231; _Bobson v.
3lich. Cent. Railroad, 37 Mich. 70; CadwelZ v. Pra~f, 41
Mich. 307.
'AIR. JusTicE

EHA&nL

, after stating the facts as above re-

ported, delivered the opinion of the court.
The mortgagees, respectively,. insist that there was, within
the meaning of the statute, an immediate delivery to them,
followed by an actual and continued change of possession of
the things mortgaged; the bank claiming to have taken possession under its mortgage on the 11th of February, 1881, while
Bates, Reed & Cooley, denying that the bank ever had such
possession as the law xequires, contend that they took possession on the 15th of February, 1881. But the claim of neither
party in that respect is satisfactorily sustained by the proof.
The evidence does not show such open, visible, and substantial
change of possession as the laiv requ.red in order to give notice to the public of a change of ownership. _Doyle v. Stevens,
4 Mich. 87,.93. In a sense, both parties were in possession by
agents early on the morning of the 15th of February, each
claiming the exclusive right to manage and control the property under the terms of the respective mortgages. As the contest for such management and control was likely to result in an
unseemly display of force, the parties, on that day, entered
into an agreement, which recited their respective claims of priority both of possession vnd of right, and provided - " neither

PEOPLE'S SAVINGS BANK v: BATES.

56] "

Opinion of the Court.

party waiving or surrendering any right or advantage?' -that
the possession of each should remain as it then was, and that
the business should continue as it was then being conducted,
all the proceeds of sale being deposited in bank and remaining
there intact until these conflicting claims should be settled by
judicial decision or by agreement. The claims were not settled
by agreement; and the defendants in error, having insisted
that this arrangement was not being carried out in good faith;,
and having been refused exclusive possession, _brought this
action - as they might do consistently with the agreement to obtain a judicial determination of their rights. In adopting that course they surrendered n- right they had in the
premises.
In behalf of the bank it is contended that the mortgage to
Bates, Reed & Cooley was fraudulent as against subsequent
creditors and mortgagees in good faith, in that the mortgagees
contemplated that the mortgagors should remain in possession
and prosecute the business in the ordinaiy mode. The mortgage of February '[, 1881, certainly contains no provision of
that kind. But if the extrinsic evidence establishes that sucl'
a course upon the part of Freedman Bros. & Co. was, in fact,
contemplated by Bates, Reed & Cooley, it would only show
that the mortgagees were willing to give the mortgagors an
opportunity to avoid a suspension of their business and bankruptcy-the additions to the stock in trade being bought under the mortgage, so as to compensate the mortgagees for any
diminution in value by reason of goods disposed of in the usual
course of business. If the mortgage had, in terms, made provision for such a course upon the part of the mortgagors, as'
the bank contends was in the contemplation of the mortgagees,
it would not be held, as a matter of law, to be absolutely void
or fraudulent as to other creditors. Oliver v. aton, 7A 1ich. 108,
112; Gay v. Bidwell, ITMich. 519, 523; People v. Bristol 35
A[ich. 28, 32; Wingler v. Sibiey, 35 IMich. 231; Bobinson v.
Elliott, 22 Wall. 513, 523. The good faith of such transactions, where they are not void upon their face, is, under the
statutes of Michigan, a question of fact for the determination
of the jury. Oliver v. Eaton.and Gay v. B-qwell. That rule
VOL. CXX-33

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

does not, however, restrict the power of the court to give to the
jury a peremptory instruction, covering such an issue, when
the evidence is all on one side, or so overwhelmingly on one
side, as to leave no room to doubt what the fact is. In this
case there is an entire absence of any evidence impeaching the
good faith of Bates, Reed & Cooley in procuring the mortgage
of February 7,1881. There is nothing whatever to show that
they had any purpose to commit a fraud or to put their mortgagors in such a position that the latter could more readily
deceive or defraud other creditors.
Besides, as the court below held, upon this branch of the
case, the bank, in its capacity as a creditor at large, is not entitled to attack the prior mortgage as fraudulent upon the
grounds just stated. This general proposition is conceded by
counsel, the usual way, he admits, being for the creditor, who
has no particular claim m the property, to acquire a specific
interest therein through the levy of an attachm-ent or execution. Hence, he says, that while it is often stated that conveyances of this sort are void as to creditors gcneraly, they
must put their claims in the form of a judgment or attachment
before they are in a position to attack them - the object of
the attachment or execution being to bring the attacking
party into privity with the property. And such seems to be
the rule recognized by the Supreme Couft of Michigan. In
Fearey v. Cummnings, 41 Mich. 376, 383, the court, construing
a somewhat similar statute, said: "If the mortgage was made
with the intent to hinder, delay, or defraud creditors (Comp.
L. ยง 4713), or, inasmuch as the possession was not altered, if it
was not put on file prior to plaintiffs becoming creditors, it
was invalid as against them; the law being that those who become creditors whilst the mortgage is not filed are protected,
and not. merely those who obtain judgments or levy attachments before the filing. Still no one, as creditor at large, can
question the mortgage. He can only do that by means of
some process or proceeding against the property. Se. 4706."
In that case the court cites Tkonmpson v. han Tectcm, 27
N. Y. 568, 582, in which it was held, in reference to a somewhat similar statute, that "the mortgage cannot be legally

PEOPLE'S SAVINGS BANK v. BATES.
Opinion of the Court.

questioned until the creditor clothes himself with a judgment
and execution, or with some legal process against his property;
for creditors cannot interfere with the property of their
debtor without process."
But it is argued that this rule does not apply in the case of
a creditor who is a second mortgagee in possession. Such
possession, it is claimed, gives him the right, by way of defence, and without resorting to attachment and before obtainng judgment, to assert the invalidity of the prior mortgage.
There is some apparent support to this position in Pwtnarin v.
Rcynolods, 44 Mich. 113, 115. That was a suit in equity
brought to foreclose a chattel mortgage not filed until after
the mortgagor had become insolvent, and while his estate was
being disposed of by an assignee for the beneo of creditors.
The court said that there was reason to believe that the
mortgagor acted in bad faith; that the mortgage was left off
the record for the purpose of giving the mortgagor a credit to
which he was not entitled; in which case, the mortgage was
void in fact, irrespective of the statute. Upon this ground
alone the court declined to give the relief asked, remitting the
mortgagee to his remedy, if any he had, at law. It expressly
declined to decide whether the rule that creditors cannot
attack a mortgage except indirectly,,through a seizure of the
Froperty by attachment or other suitable process, applies
where the mortgage was originally valid, but is made void by
the subsequent neglect of the mortgagee. The case in hand
dannot be brought within the principle announced in Putnarnt
v. ?eyno&-8, for the reason, if there were no other, that there
was no fraud in fact upon the part of Bates, Reed & Cooley,
nor any unreasonable delay in filing the mortgage of February 7, 1881. It was filed shortly after the mortgage to the
bank was lodged for recorc
This disposes of all the material questions in the case prelininary to the main inquiry whether the bank -the mortgage to it having been really given to secure past indebtedness
of the mortgagors - is, in the meaning of the statute, a subsequent "mortgagee in good faith?' . If not, the mere filing of
the mortgage of February 11, 1881, before that of February 7,

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

1881, did not give it priority of right over Bates, Reed &
Cooley; and the mortgage that was in fact first executed and
delivered, must be held to give priority of right.
Ih _Kohl v. Zynn, 34: Mich. -360, 361, the( Supreme Court of
Michigan said that, "the statute which makes a mortgage of
chattels, which has not been recorded, void 'agaitnst subsequent
purchasers or mortgages in good faith,' uses those terms in the
"sense which has always been attached to them by judicial
decisions." Guided by this rule, which we deem a sound one,
we concur with the court below in holding that the words
"mortgagee in good faith," mean the same thing as "mortgagee for a valuable consideration without notice."
It is insisted that the principles announced in Swift v. Tyson,
16 Pet. 1, and Railroad Co. v. lational Bank, 102 U. S. 14,
sustain tie proposition that the bank was a mortgagee in good
faith, although the mortgage to it may be held to have been
given merely as security for past indebtedness. The generat
doctrine announced in Swift v. Tyson was, that one who becomes the holder of negotiable paper, before its maturity, in
the usual course of business and in payment of an existing
debt, is to be deemed to have received it for a valuable consideration, and is, therefore, unaffected by any equities existing between antecedent parties. In that case, Mr. Justice
Story said that the rule was applicable as well as when the
negotiable instrument was received as security for, as when
received in payment of, a preexisting debt. In Radlroad
Co. v. iationalBank, it was held, conformably to the recognized usages of the commercial world, that "the transfer
before maturity of negotiable paper as security for an antecedent debt merely, without other circumstances, if the paper
be so indorsed that the holder becomes a party to the instrament, although the transfer is without express agreement by
the creditor for indulgence, is not an improper use of such
paper, and is as much in the usual course of commercial business as its transfer in paymeht of such debt. In either dase,
the bona jde holder is 'unaffected by equities or defences
between prior parties, of which he had no notice." p. 28.
-Do these principles apply to the case of a chattel mortgage

PEOPLE'S SAVINGS BANK v. BATES.
Opinion of the Court.

given merely as security for a preexisting "debt, and in obtaining which the mortgagee has neither parted with any right or
thing of substance nor come under a binding agreement to
postpone or delay the collection of his demand? Upon principle, and acccrding to -the weight of authority, this question
must be answered in the negative.
The rules established in the interests of nommeice to facilitate the negotiation of mercantile paper, which, for all practical purposes, passes by delivery as money, and is the representative of money, ought not, in reason, to embrace instruments
conveying or transferring real or personal property as security
for the payment of money. At any rate, there is nothing in
the usages of merchants, as shown in this record, or so far as
disclosed in the adjudged cases, indicating that the necessities
of commerce require that chattel mortgages be placed upon
the same footing in all respects as negotiable securities which
have come to the hands of a bona ftde holder for value- before their maturity. Such a result, if desirable, must be
.attained by legislation, rather than by judicial decisions.
One of the earliest cases in the Federal courts upon this
subject is that of MAorse v. Godfrey, 3 Story, 364, 389. It
there appeared that one Reed mortgaged to Godfrey all stock
in trade and nearly all his real estate. The latter subsequently
mortgaged the same property to a bank. In a contest be-tween the bank'and the assignee in bankruptcy of Reed, the
former claimed to be a bona X&fi purchaser for value without
notice of the invalidity, under the bankrupt law, of the mortgages to Godfrey. ]Mr. Justice -Story said:
"This leads me to remark that the bank does not stand
within the predicament of being a bona Jf&e purchaser, for a*
valuable consideration, without notice, in the sense of the rule
upon this subject. The bank did not pay any consideration
therefor, nor did it surrender any securities, or release any
debt due, either from Reed or Godfrey, to it. The transfer
from Godfrey was a simple collateral security, taken as additional security, for the old indebtment and liability of the
parties to the notes described in the instrument of transfer.
It is true that, as between Godfrey and Reed and the bank,

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

the latter was a debtor for value, and the transfer was valid.
But the protection is not given by the rules of law to a party
in such a predicament merely. He must not only have had
no notice, but he must have paid a consideration at the time of
the transfer, either in money or other property, or by a surrender
of existing debts or securities held for the debts and liabilities.
"But here the bank has merely possessed itself of the property transferred as auxiliary security for the old "debts and
liabilities. It has paid or given no new consideration upon
the faith of it. It is, therefore, in truth, no purchaser for
value in the sense of the rule.
"
A' er referring to Dickerson v. Tillinghast, 4 Paige, 215,1 in

whica it was held by Chancellor Walworth that the transfer
of an estate upon which there was a prior unrecorded mortgage, in payment of a preexisting debt, without the transferee
giving up any aecurity or divesting himself of any right, or
placing himself in a worse situation than he was in before,
did not make the latter, who was without notice of the prior
mortgage, a grantee or purchaser for a valuable consideration,
Mr. Justice Story proceeded: "I do not say that I am prepared
to go quite to that length, seeing, that by securing the estate
as payment, the preexisting debt is surrendered and extinguished thereby. But here there was no such surrender or
extinguishment orpayment; and the general principle adopted
by the learned Chancellor is certainly correct, that there must
be some new consideration moving between the parties, and
not merely a new security given for the old debts or liabilities
without any surrender or extinguishment of the old debts and
liabilities or the o,[ securities therefor. So that upon this
ground alone the title of the bank would fail. The case of
Swift v. Tyson, 16 Pet. 1, does not apply. In the first place,
there the bill was taken in payment or discharge of a preexisting debt. In the next place, it was a case arising upon

negotiable paper, and who was to be deemed a, bowiade holder
thereof, to whom equities between other parties should not
apply. Such a case is not necessarily governed bytbo same
IS. C. 25

Am. Dec. 526.

PEOPLE'S SAVINGS BANK v. BATES.
Opinion of the Court.

considerations as those applicable to purchasers of real or
personal property under the rule adopted by courts of equity
for their protection." See also ison v. Eaapp, I Dillon,
186, 200, 201.
In Johnson v. Peck, 1 Woodb. & 2in. 334, 336, which was
acase of a mortgage given to secure a preexisting debt due
from a mortgagor who had previously purchased the goods
under such representations as entitled his vendor to sue to
recover them back, A[r. Justice Woodbury said: "When rights
of third persons intervene in this class of cases they are to be
upheld, if those persons purchased the property absolutely
and parted with a new and valuable consideration for it without notice of any fraud.

.

.

. But if they have notice of the

fraud or give no new valuable consideration, or are mere mortgagees, pawnees, or assignees in trust for the debtor, or for
him and others, such third persons are to be regarded as holding the goods open to the same equities and exceptions as to
title as they were open to in the hands of the mortgagor,
pawner, or assig-nor."
And so in 2 American Leading Cases, 5th Amer. ed., p. 233,
it is stated, and we think properly, as the doctrine established
by a preponderance of authority, that "whatever the rule may
be in the case of negotiable instruments, it is well settled that
the conveyance of lands or chattels as security for an. antecedent debt will not operate as a purchase for value, or defeat
existing equities." See 2 Leading Cases in Equity, 104, 3d
An. ed.; Ntraag1 arf v. Fareeil,, 80 Ind. 598.
Such, we think, is also the doctrine of the Supreme Court of
Mchigan. In ]itohl v. Zynn, 34 Mich. 360, the court, after
observing that the object of the statute is to protect .those who
have acquired rights under the circumstances which would
render them liable to be defrauded unless protected against
instruments of which they knew nothing when acquiring their
rights, said: "It has always been held that a purchaser who
had paid nothing could not be thus defrauded, and that no
one could be protected as a bona jide purchaser, except to the
extent of his payments made before he received such notice as
should have prevented him from making further payments.

OCTOBER TERMI,

1886.

Opiuioh of the Court.

This doctrine has been too uniformly recognized to require
-discussion or citation of authorities. As Kohl had made no
payments at all before the property was replevied from him,
he was not a bona fide purchaser, and his rights are subject to
the mortgage."
In Stone v. Welling, 14 Mich. 514, 525, where the issue was
between the holder of an unrecorded mortgage and a subsequent grantee, who agreed to surrender indebtedness of the
grantor to him and others, and put the deed on record without
notice of the mortgage, the court said:
"Welling claims that the agreement which was given for
the 'deed was amply sufficient to support it, and to entitle him
to the rights of a bonatfe purchaser under the recording laws.
It was satisfactory, it is said, to Hart; and as to the indebtedness held by Welling and Root against him, it would have the
effect of a present discharge. That it was satisfactory to Hart
can be of no consequence on this question, since, to constitute
Welling a bonadfde purchaser he must have parted with something of value, and not merely given a contract which he
could avoid, if 'his title under the deed proved defective.
T7omas v. Stone, Walker's Oh. 117; -Dixon v. Hll, 5 Mich.
4047; Warner v. Whttaker, 6 Mich. 133; 1 Blanchardv. Tyler,
12 Mich. 339. Nor do we think the agreement had the effect to
discharge any indebtedness. It was executory in its character,
covering not only the claims of Welling and Root, but also
other claims to be procured by them, and upon which it cannot be claimed that the agreement itself would have any effect
whatever."
In Boxheimer v. Gwin, 24 Mich. 312, 379, the defendant in
'a suit brought to forec",e a recorded mortgage, relied upon a
'subsequent deed of the mortgagor, which he was induced to
take under the representation of the latter, that the mortgage
debt had been paid. After sustaining the claim of the plaintiff
upon certain grounds, the court said that the defendant must
fail in the suit upon the further ground that, although he
acted with good faith, he was not a bona fide purchaser or
IS. C. 72

Am. Dec. 65.

CHICAGO, &c., RAILROAD v. GUFFEY.
Statement of Facts.

encumbrancer for value, with equities superior to those of the
plaintiff, because it appeared that the conveyance to him was
"merely as a security for a precedent debt," without his paying or agreeing to pay any other consideration or relinquishing
any remedy or right he may have had.
Without further discussion of the authorities cited by counsel, all of which have been carefully examined, we are of bpinion
that the claim of the bank td be a subsequent mortgagee in
good faith cannot be sustained, because the mortgage of February 11, 1881, although first filed, was not given in consideration of its having surrendered, qr agreed to surrender, or to
postpone the exercise, of any'substantial right it had against
the mortgagors, but merely as collateral security for past
indebtedness. Under such circumstances, the mortgage which
was prior in time confers a superior right.
Other questions of a minor character are discussed by counsel, but it is not deemed necessary to consider them.
We perceive no error in the record, and the judgment is
Afflirmed.

CHICAGO, BURLINGTON, AND KANSAS CITY
RAILROAD v. GUFFEY.
ERROR TO THE SUFrtEME CoUr OF THE STATE OF MISSOURI.
Argued January 3, 1887.-Decided March 7, 1887.

The provision in the state constitution of Missouri of 1865, that "no property, real or personal, shall be exempt from taxation, except such as may
be used exclusively for public schools, and such as may belong to the
United States, to this state, to counties, or to municipal corporations
within the state" applies to stock issued forpconstructing branches of the
St. Joseph and Iowa Railroad in that state under the provisions of the
statute of March 21, 1868, " to aid in the building of branch railroads in
the state of Missouri"; and the provision in the charter of that railroad
company, enacted in 1857, that its stock should be exempt from taxation
for state and county purposes, does not apply to the stock issued fbr
branches constructed under the act of 1868.
Immunity from taxation by the state will not be recognized, unless granted
in terms too plain to bemistaken.

