OCTOBER TERMI, 1886.
Syllabus.

prefer not to pass upon until it has received the consideration
of a local court, state or federal. In our judgment, all the
matters of objection to the plaintiffs' title, arising under the
constitution, are matters of defence, and could not properly be
urged to prevent the title of the plaintiffs from being received
in evidence.
rThe judgment of the Circuit Court is reversed, and the case is

remand6d, with directions to award a new trial.

DUSHANE v. BEN EDICT.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

WESTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
Argued December 14, 15, lS8.-Decided March 14, 1887.
In an action to recover less than $5000, in which the defendant-asks for
judgment upon a counterclaim for more than that sum, and the Circuit
Court renders a general judgment for the plaintiff, a writ of error sued
out by the defendant is within the jurisdiction of this court, under the
act of February 15, 1875, c. 77, § 3.
In an action for goods sold and delivered, tried in the Circuit Court of the
United States in Pennsylvania, the defendant, under a plea of "payment
with leave," and by way of recoupment, may prove damages resulting to
him from a breach of warranty; or from a fraudulent representation of
the seller that the goods were of a certain quality or fit -for a certain
purpose.
Under the statute of Pennsylvania of 1705, which allows the defendant, in
an action upon a contract, to set off any matter of contract, and to recover
judgment thereon against the plaintiff, upon proving that the plaintiff
owes him more than he owes the plaintiff, the defendant, in an action for
goods sold and delivered, may set off a claim in the nature of assumpsit
upon a warranty; but not a claim for a fraudulent representation, or other
claim sounding in tort only.
If rags sold as clean and free from infection, and fit to be manufactured
into paper, are proved to have been infected with the small-pox, and to
have caused it to break out in the buyer's paper-mill, whereby some of
the workmen died, others were disabled from working, and the buyer
paid certain sums to support those so disabled, and was obliged to run
his mill short-handed, and lost a considerable pa-t of a profitable trade;
and the seller testifies that he bought the rags in a region where he knew

DUSHANE v. BENEDICT.
Statement of Facts.
the small-pox was epidemic, from any and all dealers, not knowing where
they were collected, and that they were assorted and baled up under his
instructious; and falsely testifies that the rags sold had been, baled up in
his warehouse for a year before, and had no disinfectants in them; this is
sufficient evidence to be submitted to a jury of a breach of warranty or a
fraudulent representation on the part of the seller, and of damages to
the buyer. 3ut the court may properly decline to permit the buyer to testify in general terms what he estimates the amount of his damages to be,
without stating the items of damage, or any facts upon which his opinion is based.
The testimony of witnesses, not shown to be experts, that the infected
condition of rags was the cause of a breaking out of the small-pox is
incompetent.

This was an action of assnnpsit, brought by Benedict, a
citizen of Pennsylvania and rag-dealer at Pittsburgh, against
Dushane and Stonebraker, citizens of Maryland and papermakers at Hagerstown, to recover $813.03 for rags sold and
delivered by him tp them on February 7, 1882, as appeared by
the plaintiffs affidavit to a copy of the bill from his book of
original entry.
Plea: "Defendants plead payment, with leave, &c., and the
special matter stated in affidavits of defence, and they claim
damages upon the cause of action stated in said affidavits in
the sum of seven thousand dollars in excess of the amount sued
for by plaintiff."
The defendants had filed, before their plea, two affidavits of
Stonebraker, the statements in the second of which included
those in the finst, and were as follows:
"The following facts are stated as a just defence to the
whole of plaintiff's claim. Plaintiff is a rag-dealer, having
his stock in trade in the city of Pittsburgh. In February, 1882,
he came to see defendants at Hagerstown, Md., and solicited
an order for; rags and paper. On behalf of defendant firm, I
gave him an order for substantially the quantities and kinds
described in the exhibit attached to his affidavit. lNicely assorted print and book rags were %designatedas the subject
matter of said contract, but no rags were accepted, inspected,
or even seen by defendants or any one acting for them. The
rags which the plaintiff shipped from Pittsburgh, professedly
in fulfilment of said contract, were packed in bales, and their

632

OCTOBER TERI, 1886.
Statement of Facts.

character could not be discovered until the bales were unpacked. After some of theml had been unpacked and used,'
nine of defendants' sorters were stricken with small-pox and
varioloid, and the disease spread rapidly among the employees
and those living near the, mill, causing the death of five persons and preventing many others from working. Others
became alarmed. When the reports of the -epideinic spread,
customers refused to buy defendants' paper. They were unable to hire workmen at the usual rates, and some refused f6
work on any terms. By reason of the premises and of the
interruption of defendants' business occasioned thereby, money
paid for the support of those disabled by said disease, injury
to defendants' said business, &c.,' defendants suffered loss and
were put to expense far exceeding the amount of plaintiff's
bill. The said rags were infected with small-pox before plaintiff shipped them. I am informed and believe, and expect to
prove, that he well knew them to be infected before he shipped
them. If defendants had known them to be infectel, they
would have refused to receive them. The rags they contracted for and were to receive, according to the clear understanding between them and plaintiff, were good merchantable
rags, free from infection. The infection conveyed in said rags
was the sole cause of the breaking out of said disease in the
manner above described; and they were shipped by plaintiff
with intent to deceive, cheat and defraud. the said defendants.
As soon as practicable after the discovery of said infection,
defendants wrote to plaintiff, stating the facts, and telling him
that all the rags not consumed before said discovery was
made were held subject to his order; and they were all still
so held until defendants' foreman, being compelled to remove
the said rags, and mistaking defendants' orders to the contrary,
turned them into the rotary boiler without sorting them, for.
the purpose of getting rid of the risk of infection attendant
upon their remaining in the mill.
"For the rags so used, it is submitted that defendants
ought not to pay the price charged by plaintiff, but such
amount only as they were reasonably worth, if they were
worth anything. Defendants will ask for a certificate for the

DUSHANE

V. BENEDICT.

Statement of Facts.

amount of damages in excess of the true amount to which
plaintiff may be entitled."1
The plaiiitiff, by counter affidavit of claim, denied that the
rags were infected, or that the contract provided that they
should be free from infection, or that the alleged infection
was the cause of- the breaking out of the disease, or that he
knew the rags to be infected before he shipped them, or
that he shipped. them with any intent of deceiving, cheating
or defrauding the defendants, oi that the defendants suffered
any loss in consequence of the alleged infection.
At the trial, the plaintiff, having been called as a witness in
his own behalf, testified on cross-examuination that the rags in
question were collected by him in Pittsburgh, Allegheny City,
and the country round about, and were assorted in his establishment, and baled under his special instructions by his foreman; that he bought rags from any and all dealers who
offered him merchantable rags, not knowing where they were
collected; that he thought the word "clean" was not used in
his offer to the defendants; that to the best of his knowledge
and belief the rags shipped to the defendants were clean,
and there was no sulphur, carbolic acid or other disinfectant
in the bales; that he never used disinfectants in his establishment; that he knew that the small-pox was epidemic in those
two cities at and before the time when the rags were shipped;
but that these rags had been baled up and lain in his warehouse for a year or more before.
One of the defendants, being called as a witness in their
behalf, produced a letter received from the plaintiff with the
invoice of the rags, in which the plaintiff said that he had
shipped some of them that day, and expected to ship the rest
the next da, and that he might not have quite enough then,
but would send them a few days after. And three of the
workwomen in the mill testified that the rags, when opened,
smelt strongly of sulphur and carbolic acid.
The defendants also introduced evidence tending to show
that the contract was for clean, nicely assorted, print and
book rags; that the rags, when delivered at the mill, were
packed in bales, which were immediately opened; that the

-

OCTOBER TERMI, 1886.
Statement of racts.

rags were very filthy, emitted a sickening smell, and were
infected with the small-pox; that twelve days afterwards the
small-pox broke out in the mill, and caused the death of some
of the work-people, disabled others, frightened away some,
and prevented customers from coming to the mill; that the
infected condition of the rags was the cause of the breaking

out of the disease; that the defendants supplied the sick with
provisions and other necessaries to the amount of $200, and
were obliged to run their mill short-handed, made less paper,
and lost a considerable part of a profitable country trade; but
offered no other evidence of the particulars of the damage
which they had suffered.
While one of the defendants was on the witness stand, their
counsel asked him what he estimated the amount of his damage to be. The plaintiff's counsel objected to the question, on
the ground "that it was not competent for the witness to give
a lumping estimate of the defendants' damages, but that he
should specify the items of damage, and testify to facts, his
opinion being inadmissible." The court sustained the objection and excluded the evidence.
The court also excluded testimony of one of the .persons
who had taken the small-pox, that the breaking out of the
disease was 'caused by these rags; and testimony of another
workman, that two of his children had taken the small-pox by
playing with infected rags.
In answer to an inquiry of the court, just before charging
the jury, "what, under the proofs, the"position of the defendants was," their counsel stated that "the defendants only
insisted upon their counterclaim for damages on the cause of
action growing out of the infected condition of the rags;"
and thereupon the court charged the jury as follows:
"The sale at the price sued for and the delivery of the rags
are admitted, and it is shown that the defendants used the
whole of them in the manufacture of paper, which they disposed of. The defendants, however, allege, and this is the
sole ground of defence insisted on, that the rags were infected
with small-pox, and introduced the disease among the defendants'. employees, a number of whom took small-pox, and

DUSIHAE v. BENEDICT.
Opinion of the Court.

several of whom died of the disease; and the defendants
maintain that, by reason of such introduction of the disease
into their mill, they were injured in their business, and sustained damages in excess of the plaintiff's claim, and 'hence
that they not only have a full defence to this claim, but are
entitled to a certificate for the damages sustained by them in
excess of his claim."
"1The defendants go to the length of charging that the plaintiff knew the 'ags were infected with small-pox when /e shipped
them to the defendants, and in so doing acted with posiive bad
faith to the defendants. But it seems to me that the evidence
would not justify the jury in so inding, or the court in submitting to the jury the quesiion of bad faith; nor can I now
'ecall evidence sufficiently showing that the plaintif was even
guilt. of cutlpable negligence in his purchase of these rags.
"However, the damages claimed by the deferidants, if not in
their nature too remote aftd speculative, are, it seems to me,
altogetheruncertain-.under the evidence. I am of opinion, and
charge you, that the evidence in the ease is not such as would
'nable the jury to ascertain the amount of damages, if any,
which the defendants sustaiied.
" Upon the whole case, the court instructs the jury to fnd a
verdictfor the plaintiffor the amount of his claim."
The jury rettirned a verdict for the plaintiff accordingly,
and the defendants excepted to the rulings excluding evidence, and to those portions of the charge above printed in
italics, and sued out this writ of error.
2/r. IF. 3facrunb for plaintiffs in error. Ifr. A. H. Clarke
was with him on the brief.
Xr. T.illiar, F. iXattingly for defendant in error.
Simon Wolf was with him on the brief.
:Mk. JrsToE GRAY

-Mr.

delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an action of assumpsit bya rag-dealer against papermakers to recover $813.03 for rags sold and delivered by him
to them. The plea was in the peculiar form used, in Pennsylvania, with a counterclaim. The plaintiff had a verdict and

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Comt.

judgment, and the case comes before us on a writ of error sued
out by the defendants.
The plaintiff's motion to dismiss the writ of error, f9r waint
of a sufficient amount in dispute to give this court jurisdiction,
cannot be sustained, since the tecord shows that the defendants
sought to recover the sum of $7000 in excess of the plaintiff's
claim, and this sum was therefore indispute. Ryan v. Bindley,.
1 Wall. 66; Act of February 16, 1875, c. 77, § 3, 18 Stat. 316.
Whether the defendants could lawfully recover it against the
plaintiff in this case was a matter affecting the merits, and not
the jurisdiction.
Before proceeding to consider the rulings and instructions at
the trial, as applied to the facts of the case, it will be convenient
to refer to the general rules of law, and to the statute and decisions in Pennsylvania, which bear upon the subject.
When a dealer contracts to sell goods which he deals in, to
be applied to a particular purpose, dnd the buyer has no opportunity to inspect them before delivery, there it an implied warranty that they shall be reasonably fit for that purpose. Jones
v. Just, L. R. 3 Q. B. 197, 203; S. C 9 B. & S. 141, 150; elogg Bridge Co. v. lTailton, 110 U. S. 108. In such a case,
in Pennsylvania, as at common law; the action' upon the warranty may be either in contract or in tort.
ahnleer v.Earle,
26 Penn. St..277; Sckuckcrdt v. Allen, 1 Wall. 359, 368. If
the seller falsely represents to the buyer that the goods are of
a certain quality, or fit for a certain purpose, he is liable to an
action for the fraudulent representations, although they are
not in a form to constitute a warranty; and in such a case the
action must be in tort in the nature of. an action of deceit, and
must be supported by proof that he knew the representations
to be false when he made them. H.immrn v. Lickty, 3 Yeates,
262; XcoFarland v. .Yewman, 9 Watts, 55;1 Zing v. Eagle
fll8, 10 Allen, 548.
The damages recoverable for a breach of warranty, or for a
false representation, include all damages w-hich, in the contemplation of the parties, or accordingto the natura'or usual course
S.

.34 Am. Dec. 497.

DUSHANE v. BENEDICT.
Opinion of the Court.

of things, may result from the wrongful act. For instance, if a
man sells hay or grain, for the purpose of being fed to cattle,
or such as is ordinarily used to feed cattle, and it contains a
substance which poisons the buyer's cattle, the seller is responsible for the injury. French.v. Tining, 102 Mass. 132; Wilsom
v. Dunville, -4 L. R. Ir. 249, and 6 L. IR. Ir. 210. So, if one
sells an animal, warranting or representing it to be sound,
which is in fact infected with disease, he is responsible for the
damages resulting from a communication of the disease to the
buyer's other animals; either in an action of tort for the false
representation; lbullett v..Xfason, L. R. 1 C. P. 559; Jeflrey
v. Bigelow, 13 Wend. 518;1 Faris v. Lewis, 2 B. Monroe,
375; Sherrod v. Langdon, 21 Iowa, 518; Afarsh v. lebber, 16
Minn. 418; or in an action on the warranty, either in tort;
Paekardv. Slack, 32 Vt. 9; Smith v. Green, 1 C. P. D. 92; or
even-in contract. Black v. Elliott, 1 Fost. & Finl. 595. See
also Randall v. 2ewson, 2 Q. B. D. 102.
In an action for the price of goods sold, or of work done, the
defendant may set up a breach of warranty or a false representation as to the goods, or a defective performance of the
work, by way of recoupment of the -sumn that the plaintiff may
recover. In England, this is only allowed so far as it affects
the value of the goods sold, or of the work done. -Davis v.
Hedges, L. R. 6 Q. B., 687, and cases there cited. But in this
country the courts, in order to avoid circuity of action, have
gone further, and have allowed the defendant to recoup damages suffered by him from any fraud, breach of warranty, or
negligence, of the plaintiff, growing out of and relating to the
transaction in q..estion. It will be enough to cite a few eases
in which the extent and the reason of the doctrine have been
clearly t6ught out.
In a leading Massachusetts case, in which fraudulent representations as to the soundness of a horse sold were allowed to
be set up in defence of an action on a promissory note given
for the price, although the horse had not been returlied to the
seller, Mr. Justice Dewey, after reviewing the previous decisions
1 S. C. 28 Am. Dec. 476.

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

in England and in New York, said: "The strong argument
for the admission of such evidence in reduction of damages in
cases like the present is, that it will avoid circuity of action.
It is always desirable to prevent a cross action where full and
complete justice can be done to the parties in a single suit, and
it is upon this ground, that the courts have of late been disposed to extend to the greatest length, compatible with the
legal rights of the parties, the principle, allowing evidence in
defence or in reduction of damages to be introduced, rather
than to compel the defendant to resort to his cross action.'"
-Ha ington v. Stratton, 22 Pick.: 510, 51'1. And in a later
case in that state, Chief Justice Bigelow observed, that the
essential elements on which the application of the principle of
recoupment depended were two only: "The first is, that the
damages which the defendant seeks to set off shall hav arisen
from the same subject matter, or sprung out of the same contract or transgction, as that on which the plaintiff relies to
maintain his action. The other is, that the claim for damages
shall be against the plaintiff, so that their allowance by way
of set-off or defence to the contract declared on shall operate
to avoid circuity of action, and as a substitute for a distinct
action against the plaintiff to recover the same damages as
those relied on to defeat the action." Sawyer v. lFiswell,
9 Allen, 39, 42.
In Bradley v. Rea, 14 Allen, 20, in an action to recover the
price of a number of pigs sold in one lot, it was held that the
defendant might set up in defence that the pigs sold were warranted or fraudulently represented by the plaintiff to be sound
and free from infectious or contagious diseases, and prove the
existence of such a disease in some of the pigs at the time of
the sale, which.afterwards spread to the others, and of which
they died. -Mr. Justice Hoar, delivering judgment, after referring to Xulfltt v. -Mason,
L. R. 1 C. P. 559, above cited, in which
it was held that in an action for fraudulently misrepresenting
that a cow sold was free from infectious disease, the buyer, if
he placed the cow with others which thereby caught the disease and died, could recover as damages the value of all the
cows, said: "The nature of the subject matter of the warranty

DUSHANE v. BE1TEDICT.
Opinion of the Court.

or deceit is such, that when animals are sold in one lot together,
the warranty or representation as to the whole being single,
we can have no doubt that the-same principle should apply to
the extent of a recoupment; and that the right to recoup in
damages should not be, confined to the diminished value of
those which are proved to have the disease at the time of the
sale." 14 Allen, 23. A similar decision was made in Rose v.
Wallace, 11 Indiana, 112.
The later decisions of this court, modifying the earlier decision in Tornton v. TVynn, 12 Wheat. 183, affirm the same doctrine. Withers-v. Greene, 9 How. 213; -FanBurer v. 1Digges,
11 How. 461; Minder v. Caldwell, 1.4 How. 43,1; £yo v.
Bertram, 20 How. 149, 154; Razroad Co. v. Smith, 21 Wall.
255; fiars v. itcPherson,105 U. S. 709, '17.
In Winder v. Caldwell, Mr. Justice Grier, who was equally
familiar with the common law and with the Pennsylvania practice said: "Although it is true, as a general rule, that unliquidated damages cannot be the subject of set-off, yet it is well
settled that a total or partial failure of consideration, acts of nonfeasance or misfeasance, immediately connected with the cause
of action, or any equitable defence arising out of the same transaction, may be given in evidence in mitigation bf damages, or
recouped; not strictly by way of defalcation or set-off, but for
the purpose of defeating the plaintiffs action in whole or in
part, and to avoid circuity of action." 14 How. 443.
In Railroad Co. v. Smith, which was an action against a
railroad corporation by a contractor to recover the price of
a drawbridge, it was held that the defendant might show that
the construction of the bridge was so defective as to make it
unfit for its purpose, and the draw worked so imperfectly as
to binder and delay the running of the cars over it; and
might prove the number of hands required to work the bridge
as it was built, and the number that would be necessary
if it had been properly constructed. Mr. Justice Field, delivering judgment, said: '"All damages directly arising from
the imperfect character of the structure, which would have
been avoided had the structure been made pursuant to the
contract, and for which the defendant might have instituted a

OCTOBER TERMI, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

separate action against the contractors, were provable against
their demand in the present action. The law does not require
a party to pay for imperfect and defective work the price
stipulated for a perfect structure; and when the price is
demanded, will allow him to' deduct the difference between
that price and the value of the inferior work, and also the.
amount of any direct damages flowing fTom existing defects,
not exceeding the demand of the plaintiffs. This is a rule of
strict justice, and the deduction is allowed in a suit upon the
contract to prevent circuity of action." 21 Wall. 201.
The courts of Pennsylvania, having originally had no jurisdiction in equity, have always allowed equitable defences in
actions at law, under what is there known as a "plea of payment with leave," that is to say, with leave to prove any
special matter. Swift v. Hawkins (1768), 1 Dall. 17; Lewis
v. rorgan (1824), 11 S. & R. 234; -Lightv.. Stoever (1825), 12
S. & R. 431, 433; -3fack-eyv. B'rownfteld (1825), 13 S. & R.
239; Hawk v. Geddis (1827), 16 S. & IR. 23; ilceConnell v.
Hall (1831), 3 Penrose & Watts, 53; Ude), v. Sande,'son
(1861), 38 Penn. St. 128. And the practice was long ago
recognized and acted on by Mr. Justice Washington in the
Circuit Court. Lataee v.. Peckolier, 2 Wash. 0. 0. 180, 184;
Welster v. Warren, 2 Wash. C. C. 456, 458.
In matters of contract, the defendant's right of set-off, with
the additional right to recover judgment ag4inst the plaintiff
for any sum proved in excess of his claim, is given and regulated by a statute which has been in force in Pennsylvania
since 1705, and is there coimnonly known as the- Defalcation
Act, by which "if two or more dealing together be indebted
to each other upon bonds, bills, bargains, promises, accounts,
or the lke, and one of them commence an action in any court
of. this province, if the defendant cannot gainsay the deed, bargain or assumption upon which he is sued, it shall be lawful
for such defendant to plead payment of all o part of the debt
or sum demanded, and give any, bond, bill, receipt, account or
bargain in evidence; and if it shall appear that the defendant
hath fully paid or satisfied the debt or sum demanded, the
jury shall find for the defendant, and judgment shall be

DUSHANE v. BENEDICT.
Opinion .of the Court.

entered that the plaintiff shall take nothing by his writ, and
shall pay the costs. And if it shall appear that any part of
the sum demanded be paid, then so much as is found to be
paid shall be defalked, and- the plaintiff shall have judgment
for the residue only, with costs of suit. But if it appear to
the jury that the plaintiff is overpaid, then they shall give in
their verdict for the defendant, and withal certify to the court
how much they find the plaintiff to be indebted or in arrear
to the defendant, more than will answer the debt or sum
demanded;" and the qum so certified shall be recorded with
the verdict, and be deemed a debt of record, and may b
recovered by scire facia8, or, under an act of 1848, by judgment and, execution therefor. 1 Dall. Laws of Penn. p. 65;
1 Purd. Dig. (11th Ed.) 603, 604.
This statute, in its very terms, embraces all matters of contract, and no matter of tort; and so it has .always been con-:
strued. A breach of .warranty is a breach of a contract, and
may be sued on as such; and for that reason, and that only,
has b~en allowed to be- given in evidence by the defendant,
i'nder the statute, not only in an action on the same contract
(in which it might be admis'sible by way of recoupment only,
without-the aid of the statute), but even in an action upon a
distinct contract. Steiglernanv. Jfries,1 S. & R. 477 H-ickle
v. Baldwin, I W. & S. 290; PhilliTs v. Lawrence, 6 W. & S.
150; Carranv. FranklinIns. Co., 6 W. & S. 155; Mmakwer
v. Franklin,In. Co., 6 W. & S. 439; Hunt v. Gilmore, 59 PennSt. '450; Seigworth v. -Lefel,.76 Penn. St. 476; Haofpenny v.
Bell, 82 Penn. St. 128. But from the earliest to the latest
times it has been uniformly held that a claim of damages for a
mere tort is not within the sfatu-te. Kacklin v. -Mulhallor
(1795), 2 Dall. 237; S. C. nomn .Kackleinv. Ralston, 1 Yeates,
571; Reck v. Skener (1818), 4 S. & R. 249 ;2 Gogel v. Jacofy
(1819), 5 S. & R. 117;3 Cornell v. Green (1823), 10 S. & R. 14;
Light v. Stoeve? (1825), 12 S. & R. 431; Hubler vy Tamney
(1836), 5 Watts, 51, 53; Peterson,v. Haight(1838), 3 Wharton,
150; Hunt v. Gilmore (1868), 59 Penn. St. 450, 452; Ah v.
325.
Rhoad8 (1877), 84 Penn. St. 319,

IS.

. 7 Am. Dec. 626.

VOL. CXX-

41

2 S. 0. 8 Am. Dec.OO.

8 S.

. 9 Am. Dec. 339.

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

The distinction between the right of. equitable defence or
recoupment, independent of any statute, which may arise even
out of a tortious act of the plaintiff, immediately connected
with the contract sued on, and by which the defendant can do
no more than defeat the plaintiff's claim, in whole or in part;
and the right of counterclaim under this statute, which can be
based only on contract, and by which the defendant may not
only defeat the plaintiff's action, but recover an affirmative
judgment against him; has been clearly brought out, in the
judgments of Chief Justice Tilghman.
In assumpsit to recover for services as a housekeeper, the
defendant pleaded non assumpsit, and payment, with leave to
give the special matters in evidence; and offered to prove that
the plaintiff, while in his service, clandestinely took and sent
away goods of his from the house. Chief Justice Tilghman,
after observing that it was contended for the defendant " that
the evidence was proper, either by way of set-off, or, under the
plea of non assumpsit, as a defence to the action," expressed
the opinion that it was not admissible by way of set-off, because
it had been settled that the statute did not comprehend matters
of a tortious nature; but that, considering the impolicy of multiplying suits, and the hardship of not permitting the defendant to avail himself of matters arising out of the very transaction on which the plaintiff founds his suit, the evidence offered
was admissible under the plea of non assumpsit, to show that
the plaintiff's services were ill performed, and thus to affect the
amount which she could recover; and on this ground alone the
judgment below, which excluded the evidence, was reversed.
Heck v.A Shener, 4 S. &R . 249.1
So in assumpsit for goods sold and delivered, it was held
that the defendant could not give in evidence, by'way of setoff, that the goods had been detained by the plaintiff and conveyed by him to third persons; and the same eminent judge
said: "1Without undertaking, at present, to draw the line which
limits the right of defalcation, it may be safely affirmed, that
defalcation is not pert tted by reason of any demand against
the plaintiff for an act done by him of a tortious nature."
1

S.

. 8 Am. Dec. 700.

DUSHANE v. BENEDICT.
Opinion of the Court.

"But there are cases, in which the defendant is permitted to
give evidence of acts of nonfeasance or misfeasance by the
plaintiff, where these acts are immediately connected with the
plaintiff's cause of action; although perhaps, such evidence is
not so properly a defalcation, as a defeating, in whole or in part.,
the plaintiff's action." Gogel v. Jacoby, 5 S.. & R. 117, 122.1
Again: in debt against principal and surety on a bond given
for the purchase money of a mill sold by the plaintiff to the principal defendant, the defenda-.ts proved that at the time of the sale
the grantee supposed the dam was at its lawful height, whereas
it was in fact, as the plaintiff knew, so high as to overflow and
injure the land-and mill of a neighbor without his consent; and
that if the grantee should lower his dam to its lawful height,
the value of his mill would be greatly reduced; and then
offered to show how much the value of his mill would be
diminished by so lowering the dam. It was held that the evidence, though going to prove unliquidated damages, was admissible, for reasons thus stated by Chief Justice Tilghman: "It
is very true that these damages were not in the nature of a
debt, which can be set off. But they were not offered as a
set-off. It was an equitable defence, showing that the plaintiff ought not to be permitted to recover'the whole purchase
money; and if not, then it was necessary to show what would
be a reasonable abatement. Such defences have always been
admitted in our courts. Having no court of 'chancery, we
could not get along without them. To permit the plaintiff to
recover the whole purchase money, and leave the defendants
to their remedy by an action for fraudulent concealment, would
be most unjust. The purchase money and damages arise out
of the same transaction, and the proper time for inquiry was
before the money was taken from the pocket of the defendants.
It might be too late afterwards. And certainly the plaintiff
has no right to complain, if the whole business is settled at
once. What he is not, in good conscience, entitled to receive,
he should not be permitted to 'receive." liglt v. iStoever, 12
S. & R. 431, 433.
The result of the Pennsylvania decisions may be summed
IS. C. 9 Am. Dec. 339.

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

up thus: First. Independently of the statute, any matter,
either of contract or of tort, immediately connected with the
plaintiff's cause of action, (which would seem to include everything that could be set up by way of recoupment, under the
law as generally understood and administered in the American
courts,) may be set up by way of defence to the action and in
abatement of the plaintiff's damages only. Second. Any
matter of contract may be set up by way of co:'tferclaim,
under the statute, not only to defeat the plaintiff's action, in
whole or in part, but also, if the defendant proves that the
plaintiff owes him more than he owes the plaintiff, for the
purpose of recovering the excess against the plaintiff. Third.
No mere matter of tort can be availed of by the defendant
under the statute.
The defendants in the present case pleaded "payment, with
leave, &c.," and the special matter stated in the affidavits of
defence previously fied, with a counterclaim upon the cause
of action stated in those affidavits. Their purpose in so pleading apparently was to give notice to the plaintiff, both of the
special matter to defeat his claim, and also of a defalcation or
set-off, on which the defendants would ask for a certificate
and judgment against, the plaintiff, under the statute, for any
balance due from him. In the words of Chief Justice Black,
"A notice of 'special matter must state the facts upon which
the defendant relies, and not either the evidence by which
they ai e to be established, or the inferences to be drawn from
them." Hartmanv. Heystone Ins. Co., 21 Penn. St. 466, 475.
The plaintiff might perhaps have objected to the admission of
any other evidence than of payment, for want of any notice
to him, independently of the affidavits, of the matters intended
to be relied on by way of defence and of counterclaim. -Finlay v. Stewart, 56 Penn. St. 183. But no such objection having
been made at the trial, it could not be taken for the first time
in this court. Calv'in v. _XeClure, 17 S. & R. 385; _Rearich
v. Swinetart, 11 Penn. St. 233;1 Partridge v. Insmurance
Co., 15 Wall. 573, 580. Indeed, no objection to the sufficiency
of the notice of special matter was taken in argument here.
'S. C. 51 Am. Dec. 540.

DUSHANE v. BENEDICT.

645

Opinion of the Court.

The special matter stated in the affidavits of defence was,
that the plaintiff prame to the defendants' mill, and there
solicited and obtained an order for good merchantable rags,
free from infection; that the defendants had no opportunity
to inspect the rags before delivery; that the rags sent were
infected with the small-pox before the plaintiff shipped them;
that when some of them were unpacked and used at the
defendants' mill, the infection in the rags caused the small-pox
to break out in the mill, in Ponsequence of which some of the
workmen died, others were disabled from working, it became
impossible to hire new one at the usual iates, and customers
were. deterred from buying the defendants' paper; that by
reason of the interruption and injury to the defendants' business thereby occasioned; and the money paid by the defendants to those disabled by the disease, they were put to loss
and expense far exceeding the amount of the plaintiff's bill;
that the plaintiff shipped the rags, knowing them to be infected, and intending to deceive, cheat and defraud the
defendants; and that the defendants, as soon as they discovered the infection, informed the plaintiff of the fact, and held
those which had not been consumed subject to his order, until
their' foreman by mistake used them up. The affidavits concluded by submitting that the defendants ought not to pay
the prices charged, but such amount only as the rags were
reasonably worth, if anything; and by asking for a certificate
for the amount of their damages in excess of what the plaintiff might be entitled to.
In short, the matter stated in the affidavits of defence was
a sale of rags, upon a warranty or a fraudulent representation
that they were clean and free from infection, and a delivery
by the plaintiff, under that contract of sale, of rags infected
with the small-pox, causing the breaking out of the disease in
the defendants' mill, and consequent injuries to their workmen and their business. The plaintiff, by counter affidavit of
claim, met all the issues so notified to him by the defendants'
plea and affidavits.
At the trial, the defendants, as appears by the answer of
their counsel to an inquiry of the court after the arguments to

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

the jury, and by the statement thereupon made by the court
in its charge, did not deny the sale and delivery of the rags at
the prices sued for; but relied on their counterclaim for damages on the cause of action growing out of the infected condition of the rags, both by way of a full defence to the plaintiff's
action, and also as a ground for obtaining a certificate and
judgment for the damages sustained by them in excess of his
claim.
The defendants offered evidence tending to show that the
contract was for clean rags, that the rags delivered were filthy
and infected with the small-pox, and that their infected condition caused the breaking out of the disease in the defendants'
mill. This was of itself sufficient evidence to be submitted to
the jury of a warranty and a breach of it. A warranty, express or implied, that rags sold are fit to be manufactured into
paper, is broken, not only if they will not make good paper,
but equally if they cannot be made into paper at all, without
killing or sickening those employed in the manufacture.
Upon the question whether the plaintiff, when he shipped
the rags, knew them to be infected with the small-pox, and
fraudulently represented to the defendants that they were
clean and free from infection, the evidence was as follows:
The plaintiff, having been called as a witness in his own behalf,
admitted on cross-examination that the rags were collected by
him in Pittsburgh and Allegheny City and the country round
about, where he knew that the small-pox was then epidemic,
and that he bought rags from any and all dealers, not knowing where they were collected; and further testified that the
rags were assorted and baled up under his instructions in his
establishment, and had been baled up and lain in his warehouse for a year or more before; that to the best of his knowledge and belief they were clean and free from infection, and
there was no :sulphur, carbolic acid or other disinfectant in the
bales; and that he never used disinfectants in his establishment. In contradiction of this testimony, the defendants produced a letter sent to them by him with the first invoice of
rags, showing that he did not then have all the rest on hand;
and introduced the:testimony of three workwomen in the m4

DIUSHANE

. BENEDICT.

:6,17

Opinion of the Court.

that the rags, when opened, smelt strongly of sulphur and carbolic acid.
This evidence, taken in connection with that already mentioned, was in our opinion sufficient to be submitted to the
jury, as tending to 1prove that the plaintiff knew that the rags
which he sold and shipped as clean rags, fit to be used in the
manufacture of papei, were in fact infected with th6 small-pox,
and that Tie fraudulently represented them to be clean, intending
to deceive and defraud the defendants.
Upon the question of damages, there was distinct proof,
not only of the rags being so infected with the small-pox that
they could not be made into paper without injury to the workmen, but also of sums paid by the defendants to suppbrt those
workmen who had been disabled by the disease; besides evidence that the defendants, in consequence of the injury to
their business by the small-pox introduced in the rags, were
obliged to run their mill short-handed, and lost a considerable
part of a profitable country trade. This evidence was competent for the consideration of the jury; and the want of more
full and definite proof of the amount of damages resulting to
the defendants from the unfitness of the rags to be manfifactured into paper, while it might lessen the sum which the jury
could find in the defendants' favor, did not justify the court in
withdrawing the defendants' claim from the jury.
In the rulings excluding evidence offered by the defendants
in the course of the trial, there was no error. The court might
properly decline to permit one of the defendants to testify in
general terms what he estimated the amount of their damages
to be, when he had not testified to the items of damage, or to
any facts upon which his opinion was based. The testimony
of workmen, not shown to be experts, that the infected rags
were the cause of small-pox, which they or their children had
taken, was clearly incompetent.
But for the reasons above stated, we are of opinion that the
court erred in instructing the jury that the evidence admitted
would not justify them in finding that the plaintiff knowingly
and fraudulently shipped to the defendants rags infected with
the small-pox; as well as in instructing them that there was no

OCTOBER TERMI,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

evidence which would enable the jury to estimate the amount
of damage, if any, which the defendants had sustained; and in
directing the jury to return a verdict for the plaintiff for the
whole amount of his -claim. The defendants' exceptions to
these instructions must therefore be sustained, and a new trial
had.
For the guidance of the parties and their counsel, it may be
well to re-state exactly what will be open to the defendants
upon another trial.
By way of recoupment or equitable defence, which is limited
to defeating the plaintiff's action, in whole or in part, the defendants may avail themselves of any evidence tending to show
that by reason, either of a breach of warranty, or of a fraudulent representation, the goods were worth less than they would
have been if they had been such as they were warranted or
represented to be; as well as of any evidence tending to show
that the defendants suffered damages which, in the contemplation of the parties, or according to the natural or usual course
of things, were the consequences of the breach of warranty,
or the fraudulent representation.
But under their counterclaim, seeking, as permitted by the
statute of Pennsylvania, not only to defeat the plaintiff's action, but also to recover an affirmative judgment against him,
they can avail themselves only of a claim sounding in contract,
in the nature of an action of assumpsit upon the supposed
warranty. If they fail to prove a warranty; express or implied,
the statute can have no application; because it extends to no
claim sounding in tort only, whether in the nature of an action
of deceit, or of such an action as these defendants might maintain against a person, with whom they never had any contract,
who wilfully or negligently introduced the small-pox into their
mill.

Judgnenr eversed, and case remanded to the Circuit Court,
with directions to set. aside the verdict and to order a ew
trial.

