PORTER v.PITTSBURG BESSEMER STEEL CO.

649

Statement of Facts.

PORTER v. PITTSBURG BESSEMER STEEL COMPANY.
APPEAL

FRO1 THE-.CIRCUIT COURT

OF

THE UIfTED

STATES

FOR

THE DISTIICT OF INDIANA.
Submitted January 7,1887.-Decided March 21,1887.

In this case unsecured floating dejts, due by a railroad company for construction, were, In the absence of a statutory provision, held not to be a
lien on the railroad superior to the lieu of a valid mortgage on it, duly
recorded, and of bonds secured thereby, and held by bonafide purchasers
for value.
The question of what is a final decree, from which an appeal can be takeu,
considered.
THESE were five appeals brought by Henry I. Porter, in
which the Pittsburg Bessemer Steel Company (Limited), the
Cleveland Rolling Mill Company, the Smith Bridge Company,
Crerar, Adams & Company, and Volney Q. Irwin are severally
appellees.
The material facts out of which the questions for consideration arose were as follows:
In March, 1880, the Indiana and Chicago Railway Company
was incorporated to construct and operate a railroad from a
point on the state line of Indiana, in Lake County, to Attica,
in Fountain County, Indiana. William Fostel was the chief
promoter of this enterprise, and was the president of the company, and of its successor, the Chicago and Great Southern
Railway Company, from the organization of the Indiana and
Chicago Railway Company down to March 15, 1882. From
March, 1880, to June 23, 1881, Foster owned substantially all
of the stock of the Indiana and Chicago Railway Company
which had been issued, a few shares being held by the" other
directors, and he controlled the enterprise. Prior to June 23,
1881, the work of construction and of procurement of the
right of way had progressed so far as Foster could procure
and pay for the same, by the issuing of $50,250, par. value,

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Statement of Facts.

of paid up capital stock of the company, of all of which stock
Foster had on June 23, 1881, become the owner.
Prior to June, 1881, Henry Crawford purchased from A. J.
Dull and Henry McCormick the entire capital stock, being
8648 shares, of the Chicago and Block Coal Railroad Company. This was a .company organized and incorporated by
the purchasers, at a foreclosure sale, of the Indiana North and
South Railroad, and it owned and operated a railroad extending south from Attica, through Veedersburg, in Fountain
County, to Yeddo, a little over twenty miles in length. It
had also procured sonie right of way and constructed some
road-bed south of Yeddo, in the direction of Brazil, Indiana.
The purchase price of this stock was $200,000. Crawford
made a cash payment of part at the time and gave his notes
for the residue, the stock remaining in pledge with the vendors, as security for the payment of the notes.
On June 23, 1881, Foster sold to Crawford 1005 shares of
-the capital stock of the Indiana and Chicago Railway Company, of the par value of $-50,250, under a written contract,
by which Foster guaranteed to Crawford that the stock thus
sold was all -of the capital stock of the company, excepting
$10,000 par value still held by F oster, and that the company
was under no- obligation to issue any more stock, except a
small amount for rights of way contracted to be paid for in
stock. In connection with this contract, a certificate of the
secretary of the Indiana and Chicago Railway Company was
delivered to Crawford, showing.the exact amount of capital
stock then outstanding. The $10,000 of stock ret. hed by
Foster had been issued to him in payment of his salary and
personal expenses in connection with the enterprise.
On June 213, 1881, the company had no assets excepting the
road-bed and right of way, which had been constructed and
procured with the money represented by the $50,250 of stock,
and excepting some $50,000 of aid voted by certain townships
along the line, but not yet collected.
Foster remained president, and his board of directors remained directors, until Mvarch 15, 1882. Immediately after his
purchase of the stock on June 23, 1881, Crawford, without any

PORTER v. PITTSBURG BESSEMER STEEL CO. 651
Statement of Facts.

specific contract with the Indiana and Chicago Railway Company, began furnishing from his own means the money and
material with which the work of constructing the road was.
carried on.
On July 14, 1881, the board of directors of the company, at
a special meeting, adopted a resolution, changing its name to
that of "The Chicago and Great Southern Railway Company."
On October 29,1881, the board of directors of the Chicago and
Great Southern Railway Company adopted resolutions authorizing the execution of the mortgage and the issuing of tLe
bonds involved in this litigation. At that time, Crawford was
not a director or officer of the company. The mortgage and
the bonds bear date November 1,1881. The resolutions authorized the issuing of bonds to the amount of $2,000,000, and the
mortgage secures that amount. The mortgage was made to
John C. New, as trustee, and describes the mortgaged premises
as follows: "All and singular the northern division of railway
of the said party of the first part, as the same now is or may
hereafter be constructed, between Brazil, Clay County, Indiana,
extending thence northwardly through the counties of Clay,
Parke, Fountain, Warren, Benton, Newton, and Jasper to a
junction with the Louisville, New'Albany and Chicago Railway, at or northwest from Rensselaer, Indiana, being about
one hundred miles in length."
Between June 23, 1881, and January 1, 1882, Crawford furnished from his own means over $300,000, which was paid out
for work and material used in constructing the road between
Attica and the junction at.Fair Oaks, northwest of Rensselaer.
In addition to this, Crawford, prior to January 1, 1882, hadpaid out of his own means to Dull and McCormick, upon his
purchase of the stock of the Chicago and Block Coal Company,
the sum of $85,000, leaving $115,000 and all interest still un-

paid.
From June 23, 1881, onwards, Foster and his board of directors looked to Crawford to furnish the money and- material
with which to carry on the work of construction.
In pursuance of the resolutions of October 29, 1881, the
mortgage was prepared-and executed, and-was duly recorded,

OCTOBER TERMI,

1886.

Statement of Facts.

in November, 1881, in the several counties through which the
line of the railroad ran.
About the last of December, 1881, Foster, then president of
the Chicago and Great Southern Railway Company, executed
and delivered to Crawford - the actual delivery being made
to one Starin, an employee of Crawford, at Crawford's office at
Chicago, Crawford being absent- 1000 bonds, each for $1000,
negotiable in form, and payable to. New or bearer, making
$1,000,000, the payment of the bonds and of the interest coupons attached thereto being secured by the said mortgage. At
the same time with the delivery of the bonds, Foster also delivered to Starin, for Crawford, the following memorandum,
unsigned, but in the handwriting of Foster:
"1Memorandum of agreement between the Chicago and
Great Southern Railway Company and Henry Crawford as
to applying the proceeds of an issue of one million dollars of
bonds under date of November 1, 1881.
"First. In payment of Block Coal road, purchased by said
Crawford, and the contract assigned by him to the Chicago
and Great Southern Railway Company, with which it is to be
consolidated, as provided by law.
"Second. To reimburse said Crawford for money advanced,
and to be hereafter advanced, for construction and equipment
of the Chicago and Great Southern Railway, which the bills
of purchase and vouchers for the necessary payments shall be
the evidence of expenditures made.
"Third. Any balance from the proceeds of the first issue or
any subsequent .issue shall ba used and applied- to the extension
and development of the line of road covered by the mortgage
of November 1st, 1881.
1"Fourth. It is understood and agreed that said Crawford is
to furnish the necessary amount of money to pay the debts
contracted since the 1st of July, 1881, and to complete grading
and superstructure, and to furnish and equip the line of road
from junction with Air Line to Attica, as fast as the work can
be done."
Prior to the delivery of the bonds by Foster to Crawford,
Crawford had assigned to the Chicago and Great Southern

PORTER v. PITTSBURG BESSEMER STEEL CO.

653-

Statemeut of Facts.

Railway Company his contract with Dull and McCormick for
the purchase of the stock of the Chicago and 1lock Coal Railroad Company. When the bonds were thus delivered to
Crawford he had no official connection with the company, but
owned $50,250 of its stock, and had furnished to it a large
amount of money, which it had paid out for construction.
In December, 1881, Crawford's note to Dull and McCormick
matured and was unpaid. Crawford negotiated with Dull for
an extension of time, and Dull agreed to give the extension if
Crawford would deposit with him, as additional collateral
security, all of the bonds then issued by the Chicago and.
Great Southern Railway Company, and all the stock which he
had bought from Foster, and if he would also, by an agreement with New, the trustee, prevent the issue of any more
bonds without Dull's written consent. This arrangement was
carried out, and, on the .27th of January, 1882, Crawford delivered to Dull all of the stock which he had' bought from
Foster, and the 1000 bonds which Foster had delivered to him,
and also procured from New the following paper, which was
'! 1
delivered to Dull:
"I, John C. New, of the city- of Indianapolis, in the state
of Indiana, do hereby make known, that, as trustee in a certain mortgage or deed of trust, bearing date the 1st day of
November, 1881, made and executed by the Chicago and Great
Southern Railway Company, a 'corporatioii 'of the' 'state of
Indiana, to me, as trustee, covering the railroad and other
property of said company, to secure a' certain issue of firstmortgage bonds of said bompany, aggregating the sum of two
millions of dollars, I have, as such trustee, certified for issue
one thousand of said bonds, of one thousand' dollars each, and
no more, and, at the request of Henry Crawfoid, Esq., of
Chicago, -I agree that I will, as such trustee' certify no more
of said bonds without the consent in writing' of A. J. Dull,
Esq., of Harrisburg, Pa.
"Dated at New York, January 2'r, 1882.

J-No. C. NmBV, Tm'sltee."

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Statement of Facts.

At this time, the balance due to Dull and McCormick was
$115,000 and interest. The $85,000 which Crawford haa paid
to Dull and McCormick was in addition to the money he had
furnished for constructing the new road north from Attica.
In February, 1882, the work of constructing the railroad
being still in progress, and Crawford still continuing to furnish,
without any contract with the company, the money used in
prosecuting the work, he requested Foster and his board of
directors to enter into a construction contract with him, and
he sent to the board awritten contract which he desired it to
execute. The board, on the 7th of February, 1882, unanimously rejected the contract. Crawford then procured Foster
to call another meeting of the borrd, which was held on M arch
15, 1882. Crawford attended this meeting, it being the first
at which he was present. Becoming satisfied that Foster would
prevent any contract or settlement from being made with him,
unless he would buy from Foster the $10,000 of stock still held
by Foster, he purchased that stock from Foster, and the two
entered into a written contract, dated March 15, 1882, by
which Crawford became the owner of all the remainder of the
capital stock of the company.- Crawford on the same day
assigned and transferred to each of the following persons one
share of the capital stock of the company, viz.: Henry Crawford, Jr., William A. Starin, D. H. Conkiin, F. F. Lacey,
H. Moore, G. W. McDonald, D. J. Lyon and H. Meiselbar.
On the same day, Foster and his board of directors, at the
request of Crawford, resigned, and Crawford caused himself
and the eight persons above named to be elected directors of
the company. On the same day, Crawford was elected president of the company, and remained such for four days, until
March 18, 1882, when he ceased to be president and director;
and he had no official connection with the company from .fat
time until-April or May, 1883, when he was again elected
director and president.
On March 18, 1882, the new board of directors passed a
resolution approving the mortgage to New, and ordering it to
be copied at length in the minutes of the meeting, which was
done. At the same meeting the board of directors entered

PORTER v. PITTSBURG BESSEMER STEEL CO.

655.

Statement of :Facts.

into a construction. contract with Crawford. Between June
23, 1881, the date of Crawford's first purchase of stock from
Foster, and Mfarch 18, 1882, the date of the construction contract, Crawford had paid out of his own means, for labor and
material used in the construction of the comp.any's railroad
north from Attica, about $400,000, and for the purchase of
the stock of the Chicago and Block Coal railroad, extending
south from Attica, $85,000.
The Chicago and Block Coal- Railroad Company and the
Chicago and Great Southern Railway Company were consolidated in the spring of 1883, under the name of "The Chicago
On the Q h of
and Great Southern Railway Company."
April, 1883, the consolidated company executed and delivered
to John C. New, as trustee, a deed of further assurance, covering the railroad and property of the Chicago and Block Coal
Railroad Company, extending southwardly from Attica to
Yeddo, in addition'to the. property covered by the mortgage
of November 1, 1881, and making the first named property a
further security for the bonds issued under the mortgage of
Novemher 1, 1881. This deed of further assurance was duly
recorded in the counties 'along the line of the railroad:
The work of construction was carried on until January,.
1883, Crawford furnishing from his own means all the money
paid for labor and material used in the construction between
June 2, 1881, and January 5, 1883, except about $40,000 received on account of aid voted by certain townships along the
line, which was also expended in paying for construction.
Between January 23, 1882, (the date at which Crawford
pledged the bonds and stock to Dull and McCormick,) 'and
January 5, 1883, Crawford had been endeavoring either to sell
the bonds so pledged to Dull and McCormick or to hypothecate them for a loan sufficiently large to pay off Dull. and McCormick, and also to furnish money to build the road from
Fair Oaks to Attica. Between June 23, 1881, and January 5,
1883, there had been paid out for the construction of the railroad about $500,000, all of which had been furnished by Crawford, except about $40,000 received from township aid.
On January 5,1883, Crawford negotiated a loan from Drexel,

656

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Statement of Facts.

Morgan & Co., a banking house in the city of New York, under
a written contract. This contract provided for a loan of $400,000, $250,000.to be paid at once, out of which the balance due
to Dull and McCormick for the Chicago and Block Coal railroad was to be paid; $50,000 more to be paid when the new
road should be completed from Iroquois River to Fair Oaks;
$50,000 more when the road should be completed eight miles•
south from Oxford, and when Crawford should furnish satisfactory proof to Drexel, Morgan & Co. that he had put into
the work $50,000 of his own money, in addition to all the
moiilrs theretofore expend6d by him upon the construction of
the road- the last $50,000 to"be paid when the line should be
completed from Fair Oaks to Yeddo. Crawford was to proI
cure the consolidation of the Chicago and Block Coal railroad
-withthe Chicago and Grea4 Southern railway. As security for
this loan, all of the capital stock of the Chicago and Block
Coal Railroad Company, all of the capital stock of the Chicago
and Great Southern Railway Company, and all of the bonds
of the latter company, either then issued or thereafter to be
issued, were to be delivered to and held by Drexel, Morgan &
Co. Crawford was to give his individual notes for the loan,
and- Drexel, Morgan. & Co. were to appoint, and did appoint,
an agent to superintend the expenditure of all the money to
be advanced by them, the money to be paid out only upon
drafts drawn by Crawford and approved and countersigned by
such agent. Under this contract, Drexel, Morgan & Co. advanced $350,000. As part of it, they paid to Dull and McCormick, on January 5, 1883, $132,379.99, being the entire
balance due on the purchase of the stock of the Chicago and
Block Coal Railroad Company, and received from Dull and
McCormick all of the stock and bonds which they held as collateral. Drexel, Morgan & Co. received this stock and these
bonds, not from Crawford, but from Dull and McCormick,
Crawford never having had possession or control of the stock
or the bonds from the time when he pledged them to Dull and
McCormick. The remaining $217,620.01 was paid by'Drexel,
Morgan Co., through their agent, directly for labor and material used in 'the construction of the rgilhoad, and was paid at

PORTER v. PITTSBURG BESSEMIER STEEL CO.

657

Statement of Facts.

various times between January 5, 1883, and Septembdr, 1883.
During the same period, Crawford, in addition to what he had
theretofore expended out of his own means in the work of
construction, and in addition to the money so paid by Drexel,
Morgan & Co., paid out of his own means more than $50,000
for labor and material used in the construction of the railroad
between Oxford and Attica. From January 5, 1883, to September, 1883, the contractors, sub-contractors, furnishers of
material and laborers were informed and understood that the
money paid to them from time to time during that period was
mainly derived from a loan negotiated upon the* mortgage
bonds of the railway company. Each of these five appellees
knew of the pledge of these bonds to Drexel, Morgan & Co.
for this loan, and knew that they were getting part of the
money loaned by Drexel, Morgan & Co.
After the Drexel, Morgan & Co. loan was exhausted, the
work of construction was continued, the money paid for labor
and material being furnished by Crawford, until about February, 1884, when thc new road was so far constructed as to
enable trains to be run from Attica to the junction at Fair
Oaks. On the 18th of February, 1884, Crawford submitted
to the board of directors a report, showing the then condition
of the work, and asked the board to issue to him, in addition
to the $1,000,000 of first mortgage bonds theretofore issued,
a further sum of $200,000 of' the first mortgage bonds,
$1,200,000 of capital stock, and $1,200,000 of income bonds,
as a payment to him on account. On the same day the board
of directors passed the following resolution: "That, as a payment on account for the work done and material furnished up
to the present time under such constrdction contract, there be
allowed and paid to the contractor or order the sum of two
hundred thousand dollars of first mortgage bonds, (in addition
to the one million dollars heretofore apprQpriated,) and also,
($1,200,000) one million two hundred thousand dollars of
income bonds, and ($1,200,000) one million two hundred thousand dollars in the common stock, full paid, of this company,
the proper officers of the company to execute the foregoing
resolutions and take the proper vouchers for all payments."
VOL. cxx-42

OCTOBER TERM, 1880.
Statement of Facts.

No income bonds were ever issued by the company. On
the 5th of May, 1884, at the request of Crawford, the board
of directors adopted a resolution, providing for an exchange of
the old Indiana and Chicago Railway Company stock and of
the old Chicago and Block Coal Railroad Company stock for
new stock of the consolidated Chicago and Great Southern
Railway Company. At the same meeting the board passed
a resolution, that, in addition to the consolidated stock to be
issued in exchange for the old stock of the original companies,
the -secretary should issue and deliver to the contractor additional new stock, as payment under the construction contract,
so as to make the total consolidated stock outstanding amount
to $1,200,000, par value. This exchange of stock was made,
and enough additional new stock of the consolidated company
-was issued -to make its total stock outstanding amount to$1,200,000, par value, all of which stock was delivered to
Drexel, Morgan & Co. under their contract of loan. When
Dull and McCormick, on January 5,1883, delivered their stock
and bonds to Drexel, Morgan & Co., they also delivered to
the latter the following consent:
"John C. New, trustee:
"I hereby consent to the issue and certification of the
remaining $1,000,000 of Chicago and Great Southern Railway
bonds, whenever you are so requested to do by Drexel,
Morgan & Co.
"New York, Jan. 5, 1883.
A. J. DULL."
The additional $200,000 of bonds which Crawford was
authorized to receive by such resolution of the board of February 18, 1884, were issued. Drexel, Morgan & Co. procured
New, as trustee, to certify them, and they were delivered by
Crawford toDrexel, Morgan & Co., in August, 1884.
While the construction of the railroad -was in progress,
Crawford became indebted to the First National Bank of
Chicago in the sum of about $300,000, about two-thirds of
which money Crawford expended in the construction of the
Chicago Air Line railroad,* ard about one-third of it in the

PORTER v. PITTSBURG BESSEMER STEEL CO.

659

Statement of Facts.

construction of the Chicago and Great Southern railway.
While the bonds and tock of the Chicago and Great Southern
Railway Company were so held in pledge by Drexel, Morgan
& Co., Crawford gave to the First National Bank of Chicago
a second pledge of the same bonds and stock, to secure the
payment of his indebtedness to the bank, he having already
pledged to it certain other securities and property, as collateral. Crawford's notes to Drexel, Morgan & Co. matured
and were not paid. Drexel, Morgan & Co., under the power
given to them in their contract with Crawford, of January
5, 1883, advertised the pledged bonds and stock to be sold on
June 2, 18S4. By a written agreement between Crawford
and Drexel, Morgan & Co., made May 27, 1884, the sale was
postponed to June 20, 1884. In the meantime, Samuel M.
Nickerson, President of the First National Bank of Chicago,
which held the second pledge of the securities held by Drexel,
Morgan & Co., and Henry H. Porter, a director and stockholder of the bank, entered into negotiations with Drexel,
Morgan & Co. respecting the purchase of the bonds and stock
from them, if Crawford should further fail to pay his debt to
them and to redeem the securities. These negotiations resulted.
in a contract between Crawford and Drexel, Morgan & Co.,
by which the time of [payment was extended for sixty days
from June 20, 1884, and a further contract between Nickerson
and Porter of the one part, and Drexel, Morgan & Co. of the
other part, by which Nickerson and Porter agreed to buy the
pledged securities from Drexel, Morgan & Co., and to pay
them their claim in full with interest, if Crawford should fail
to pay his debt to them at the expiration of the sixty days.
These two contracts were both of them dated June 25, 1884.
Crawford failed to pay his debt to Drexel, Morgan & Co.
within the sixty days. Prior to January 12, 1885, Porter
purchased Nickerson's interest in the contract of June 25,
1884, between Nickerson and Porter, and Drexel, Morgan &
Co. On January 12, 1885, Porter paid to Drexel, Morgan &
Co. $392,363.24 by drafts, and sent them the drafts endlosed
in a letter, in which Nickerson concurred. Drexel, Morgan
& Co. received the payment, and delivered the pledged bonds

OCTOBER TERM, -1886.
Statement of Facts.

and stock to Porter, accompanying the delivery with a letter
giving in detail a list of the stocks, bonds, notes, agreements
and papers held by them as collateral to the loan. One of the
papers enclosed by them to Porter was a consent signed by
them, authorizing New, as trustee, to certify the remaining
uncertified $800,000 of first mortgage bonds whenever so
requested to do by Porter. Porter associated with himself
certain other persons, who entered into a subscription or syndicate agreement, for the purpose of buying in the railroad
and reorganizing, completing, and extending it. By this
agreement it was provided, that ,Porter, as the agent and
attorney of the. parties concerned, should go on "in his own
name" and foreclose -the mortgage, sell the property, bid it
off, reorganize the company, and convey the property to be
purchased under the foreclosure to the reorganized company.
The agreement was, in effect, one by the subscribers to pay
so much money for so much stock and bonds of the new company to be organized after the foreclosure and sale by Porter.
It gave to Porter absolute power over and control of all the
bonds of the existing company, with full authority in his own
name to foreclose the mortgage and reorganize the company
upon the foreclosure purchase, and conduct and control the
new enterprise.
On the 26th of December, 1884, Porter and Crawford
entered into a contract, under which Porter and the syndicate
represented by him purchased and became the absolute owner
of any and all right Crawford might have to redeem from
Porter the bonds and stock he should receive from Drexel,
Morgan & Co., by paying to him the amount he should pay
to them. This contract recognized the right of Crawford so
to redeem the bonds and stock. Drexel, Morgan & Co. did
not sell the bonds and stock at public auction on notice, but
sold to Porter at private sale their debt against Crawford,.and
put Porter in their place as to the collateral security for the
debt. Crawford was willing that Porter should take the
bonds and stock in this way if he, Crawford, could still have
an opportunity to protect his second pledge of them to the
First National Bank of Chicago. By this contract Porter and

PORTER v. PITTSBURG BESSEMER STEEL CO.

661

Statement of Facts.

his associates fixed the ultimate price they were willing to pay
for the bonds and stock, which price left a margin for the
bank after'paying off Drexel, Morgan & Co. On the same
day, and as a part Qf the same transaction, Crawford, by
written assignment, transferred to the First National Bank of
Chicago all of his right, title, and interest in and to the contract of the same date between' himself and Porter, and all
the rights, claims, demands; moneys, and payments he, Craw-:
ford, might be or become entitled to by reason of and undor
that contract. These two instruments simply constituted the
method pursued to protect the bank in its second lien upon
the bonds and the stock, and were entered into for the purpose of securing to it any margin of value there might be in
the bonds and stock, after paying the Drexel, Morgan & Co.
debt.
The amount of money furnished by Crawford and expended
in the construction of the railroad during the time the Drexel,
Morgan & Co. loan was being used in construction, and during
the time after that loan was exhausted, amounted to at least
$250,000, in addition to the moneys which Crawford had theretofore paid out for such construction. The total expenditure
in constructing the Chicago and Great Southern railway was
something over $1,000,000, all of which came from Crawford's
private means, and from the Drexel, Morgan & Co. loan, except some $40,000 or $50,000 received from aid voted by some
townships along the line. The mortgage bonds involved in
this litigation represent this $1,000,000 expended in construction, and the accrued interest thereon. The railroad fromi
Yeddo to Fair Oaks was opened for business in April or May,
1884. Prior to the appointment of a receiver, on October
28, 1884, the company did not earn sufficient money to pay
its operating expenses. No interest was ever paid on any of
the mortgage bonds issued by the company. Crawford hever
received anything from the company for personal services or
expenses, or any repayment of moneys expended by him in
constructing the railroad.
On October 27, 1884, John Hack and others filed a creditors'
bill in the -Circuit Court of Jasper County, Indiana, against

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Statement of Facts.

the Chicago and Great Southern Railway Company and Henry
Crawford. On the same day, that court entered an order appointing Philip B. Shumway receiver. Afterwards, on March
5, 1885, Crawford filed his answer in the suit, disclaiming all
interest in its result, and upon that answer an order was
entered that Crawford recover from the plaintiffs his costs, and
that he had no interest in any controversy pertaining to the
action. On February 26, 1885, the court removed Shumway
and appointed as receiver, in his stead, William Foster. In
the order appointing Foster there was this provision:
"And the Court, as a c6ndition of the appointment of said
receiver, reserves the right to make any further order respecting the priority and payment of labor and supply claims accruing prior to the receivership herein as may hereafter seem and
appear to the court to be equitable and just."
On the 4th of April, 1885, the Hack suit was removed into
the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Indiana. On the 9th of March, 1885, Porter filed in that court
his bill of complaint against the Chicago and Great Southern
Railway Company, John C. New, trustee, and others, alleging
that :New, as trustee, refused to bring the suit, and praying
for the foreclosure of the mortgage of November 1, 1881,
and of the deed of further assurance of April 9, 1883. On
the 18th of April, 1885, this suit and the Hack suit were consolidated under the title of the Porter suit. On April 29,
1885, and August 15, 1885, orders were entelled authorizing
the receiver to issue certificates to pa;y receiver's indebtedness,
and to make needed repairs and replacements on the railroad.
Under these orders receiver's certificates, amounting in the
aggregate to $153,000, were issued. The railway company filed
an answer in the consolidated suit, admitting the averments
of the bill. A decree prpo confesso was entered against New,
txustee. Various creditors of the company were made parties
dbfendant to the bill, some being judgment creditors and some
not. Other creditors filed intervening petitions. In May,
1885, the trustees of four townships, two in Benton County,
and two in Newton County, which had voted aid in the construction of the railroad amounting to about $40,000, applied

PORTER w.PITTSBURG BESSEMER STEEL CO.

663

Statement of Facts.

to the court, as trustees of common schools, to be made defendants, and to be allowed to defend against the foreclosure;
but the application.was denied.
In June, 1885, the same trustees, as trustees of the townships voting aid, applied to be permitted to defend against the
foreclosure, as minority stockholders. This application was
denied on the ground that under the statutes of Indiana the
individual tax-payers of the townships which had voted aid
were entitled to the benefit of the stock, in proportion to the
amount of taxes paid by them respectively. Thereupon, John
W. Swan' and Cephas Atkinson, as tax-payers of two townships, applied for leave to become defendants and to, defend
against the foreclosure. Without disposing of that application
the court, on the 17th of August, 1885, entered a decree of
foreclosure and sale.
On the 30th of September, 1885, the application of Swan
and Atkinson was reheard by the court, and it entered an
order admitting Swan and Atkinson as defendants, and. allowing them to file their petition and answer. The order contained this provision: "This order shall in nowise affect the
decree heretofore made for the sale of the railroad by the
court or rights of parties thereunder." Swan and Atkinson
filed their petition and sworn answer, charging that the mortgage and the bonds were fraudulently executed and issued,
and were without consideration and void, and that Crawford's
construction contract was fraudulent and void. -On October
8, 1885, Swan and Atkinson and others fied a petition to
set aside the foreclosure decree of August 17, 1885, containing
substantially the same charges against the mortgage that were
contained in the answer of Swan and Atkinson. On the 12th
pf October, 1885, the court set aside the foreclosure decree,
and made an order giving the defendants thirty-nine days in
which to take their evidence "as to so much of said case as
involves the validity of the mortgage and mortgage debts, as
the same are described in the bill of said Porter and the
Porter filed a replication to the
defendants' answers."
answer of Swan and Atkinson.
Voluminous testimony was taken, on which the case was

OCTOBER TERI, 1886.
Statement of Facts.

heard, and a decree of foreclosure was entered on the 16th of
February, 1886. That decree denied the relief prayed by the
answer of Swan and Atkinson, as stockholders, and dismissed
their petition. It declared that 1200 of the mortgage bonds
were issued and delivered by the company to Crawford; that
1000 thereof were to be accounted for by Crawford under the
construction contract; that 200 of them were delivered to
Crawford under that contract; that the 1200 bonds were sold
and delivered by Crawford to Porter and his associates; -and
that the remaining 800 of them had never been issued. It
recited-the making, delivery, and recording of the two mortgages of November 1, 1881, and April 9, 1883; that the company defaulted in paying the interest due July 1, 1882, on the
bonds;- that there we're $291,860 of interest in default upon the
bonds issued; and that the mortgages "are valid and binding
obligations as against the" company, and a paramount lien on
all the property thereby conveyed, "excepting as hereinafter
provided." It then proceeded to decree as follows:
"Sixth. That all .unpaid valid claims against said railway
company, accrued for right of way, lands, labor, rolling-stock,
and material used in the construction and betterment of said
railway, 'whether reduced to judgment or remaining in open
account, are ]iereby adjudged and decreed to be prior, superior,
and paramount to the lien of the said mortgages or deeds of
trust and the bonds secured thereby; that all unpaid valid
claims for labor, supplies, rolling-stock, and material used in the
operation of said 'railway prior to the appointment of a
receiver, whether reduced to judgment or remaining in open
account, are hereby adjudged and decreed to be prior, superior,
and paramount in-lien to the said lien of said mortgages or
deeds of trust and the bonds secured thereby; ad al of said
claims accrued in the construction of said railway and its betterment; and all bf said claims accrued in the operation of
said railway, prior to the appointment of a receiver, as hereinabove in this paragraph of this decree described; are hereby
adjudged and decreed to be prior, superior, and paramount in
lien to the lien of any and all receiver's certificates issued
.under the order of this .court in this cause, excepting':only

PORTER

.

PITTSBURG BESSEMER STEEL CO.

665

Statement of Facts.

receiver's certificates to the amount of twenty-three thousand
dollars ($23,000), issued under the order of this court of April
29, A. D. 1885, the proceeds of said certificates other than said
twenty-three thousand dollars ($23,000) representing construction or betterment of said railway.
"Seventh. That all court and receiver's indebtedness accrued against said property since the appointment of a receiver
is hereby adjudged and decreed to be prior, superior, and paramount in lien to the lien of said mortgages or deeds of trust
and the bonds secured thereby."
It then provided for the sale of. the mortgaged property at
public auction, by a master, for not less than $500,000; for the
payment of the purchase money into the registry of the court;
and for a reference to the master to take testimony and report
his findings and such testimony as to certain specified matters,
among which was the following:
"5. The amount due the several claimants under the sixth
paragraph of this decree, showing the amount due each claimant and the aggregate amount due upon each of the two classes
of the claims mentioned in said sixth paragraph."
On March 27, 1886, the railroad was sold by the master, and
bought by Porter, for $501,000. On April 5, 1836, th6 sale
was confirmed by the court, and the purchaser was empowered to pay, as cash, in part payment of the purchase money,
all receiver's certificates outstanding, then amounting, with
interest, to $157,884.64, the remainder of the purchase money,
$343,115.36, being paid in cash.
The reference was had before the master, and much testimony was taken upon it. On August 31, 1886, the master
filed his first report under the reference, in which he allowed
the following claims at the following amounts: The Cleveland
Rolling Mill Company, $29,643.97; Crerar, Adams & Company, $7809.94; the Smith Bridge Company, $20,900.24; the
Pittsburg Bessemer Steel Co. (Limited), $12,944.20. Porter
duly filed exceptions to these allowances. On the 8th of October, 1886, the master filed his report as to the claim of Irwin,
allowing it at the sum of $10,950.30. Porter duly excepted to
this allowance. On the 9th of October, 1886, on a hearing on

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Statement of Facts.

the reports and exceptions, the court made the following
decree:
"First. That the said five several defendants, claima~ts and
intervening petitioners hereinbefore named, have each done
work or furnished materials which have been used in the construction and betterment of the railway of said Chicago and
Great Southern Railway Company prior to the appointment
of the receiver therefor, which respective claims for such labor
and material are valid claims against said railway company to
the amounts hereinafter named, and which said amounts are
adjudged and decreed to be valid claims under and in pursuance of the sixth paragraph of the decree heretofore, on the
16th day of February, 1886, entered in this cause, prior and
superior and paramount to the lien of the mortgages or deeds
of trust in said decree mentioned and the bonds secured
thereby.
"Second. And the court further finds, that there is now in
the registry of this court, to the credit of this cause, the sum
of $325,194.27, derived from the sale of said property, and
remaining after the payment of all receiver's certificates and
certain of the indebtedness incurred by the court since it assumed the control and management of said railroad, and which
sum is largely in excess of the total amount of claims filed or
proven under the terms of said decree entered on the 16th day
of February, 1886, including all unpaid costs and indebtedness
incurred by the court since it took possession of said railway
property.
"Third. And the court further finds that there is due to the
Smith Bridge Company the sum of $20,900.24, with interest to
be added from the 27th day of October, 1884, at the rate of
six per cent. per annum.
"That there is due to the Cleveland Rolling Mill Company
the sum of $29,643.97, with interest to be added from the 27th
dchy of October, 1884, at the rate of six.per cent. per annum.
"That there is due to Crerar, Adams & Co. the sum of
$7809.94, with interest to be added from the 27th day of October, 1884, at the rate of six per cent. per annum.
"That there is due to the Pittsburg Bessemer Steel Coin-

PORTER v. PITTSBURG BESSEMER STEEL CO.

667

Opinion -of the Court.

pany the sum of $12,944.20, with interest to be added from
the 27th day of October, at the rate of six per cent. per annum.
"That there is due Volney Q. Irwin the sum of $11,450.30,
with interest to be added from the 27th day of October, 1884,
at the rate of six per cent. per annum.
"Which several sums of money are due to said above-named
parties, respectively, for and on account of labor or material
used in the construction and betterment of said railway., as
provided and set forth in the sixth paragraph of said decree,
entered in said cause on the 16th day of February, 1886.
"It is, therefore, finally ordered, adjudged; and decreed by
the court, that the clerk of this court shall pay out of the said
fund in'the registry of the court to the credit of this cause,
the said several sums of money, with interest to be computed
thereon, to the said parties, respectively, or their solicitois of
record, viz.: To the Smith Bridge Company, the sum of $23,345.54; to the Cleveland Rolling Mill Company, the sum of
$33,112.32; to Crerar, Adams & Co., the sum of $8723.71; to
the Pittsburg Bessemer Steel Company, the sum of 814;458.65;
fo Volney Q. Irwin, the sum of $12,789.98.
"Said several payments shall be, made, with interest at the
rate of six per centum per annum from the date of the entry
of this decree, in full payment and discharge of said respective
claims against said railway property and franchises."
Forter appealed separately from each of these decrees and
orders of payment, and these were the appeals now presented
for consideration.
Xr. J. E _McDonald, XP. John M. Butler, Mr. A. L. MNason, .Ar. 0. Peckham, and :r.R. B. F. Pierce for appellant.
.Mr. A. C. Han-is, M1/r. W. H Calkins, .M . John S. YCooper,
and Mr. E. W. Tolerton for appellees.
MR. JusnoE BLA.ToHFoRD, after stating the facts as above
reported, delivered the opinion of the court.

It it alleged that the Circuit Court erred in decreeing the
several claims of these five appellees to be liens on the railroad

OCTOBER TERMI,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

and property of the original Chicago and Great *Southern
Railway Company superior to the lien of the mortgage of
November 1, 1881; and that it also erred in decreeing these
claims to be liens on the railroad and property of the consolidated company superior to the lien of the mortgage of April
9, 1883, conveying the railroad and property formerly known
as the Chicago and Block Coal railroad.
It is urged, in maintenance of -the decree below, that the
relati6ns which Crawford sustained towards the several appellees when their claims respectively accrued, and his relations
to the railway company, were such as to preclude him from
acquiring the mortgage bonds in controversy to the prejudice
of the appellees; that, his construction contract was fraudulent and void as against the appellees, as creditors of the company; that, as between him and the appellees, he is estopped,
by the provisions of his construction contract, from claiming
the right to a prior lien upon, or an equal distribution of, the
proceeds of sale of the property of the company; that the
legal situation was that of a nominal corporation vested with
the legal title to its property for the use of Crawford as sole
beneficiary; that Dull and McCormick received the bonds subject to the same equities against them which could be urged
while they were in Crawford's possession; that the equities of
the appellees against the $1,000,000 of bonds, in the hands of
Drexel, Morgan & Co., were precisely what they were while
the bonds were in the hands of Crawford; that the appellees
axe entitled, in equity, to be paid out of the assets of the company the amounts of their respective claims in preference to
Crawford; that all rights which Nickerson and Porter might
have had to be subrogated to the position of Drexel, Morgan
& Co. were lost by the syndicate agreement of Detember 26,
1884; that the legal effect of that agreement was a purchase
by Porter directly from Crawford; that the amounts in controversy on these appeals are a part of the purchase price of
the securities on such purchase of them by Porter, reserved by
him to be paid either to Crawford or to the appellees; that
the real controversy here is between Crawford and the First
National Bank of Chicago on the one hand and the appellees

PORTER v. PITTSBURG BESSEMER STEEL CO.

669

Opinion.of the Court.

on the other; that the appellant had no interest in that controversy; that, by the purchase of the securities under the
syndicate agreement, Porter was charged with full notice of
all the facts from which the equities of the appellees against
Crawford and the mortgage bonds arise; that the First National Bank acquired no better rights against the appellees, by
the assignment to it of Crawford's interest in the syndicate
agreement, than Crawford himself bad; that the equities of"
the appellees to be paid the amounts due to them out of the
fund in court are superior to those of Porter, as the nominal
party, and to those of Crawford as the real party; and)A,.t
Porter, by reason of his ownership and possession of over $700,000 of unpaid capital stock of the company, had no right, as
against the appellees, to foreclose the mortgage for the banefit
of his.bonds until the claims of the appellees should first be
paid.
The considerations which seem to us to show-that the
Circuit Court erred in awarding priority to the claims of
these creditors over the mortgage bonds, are few and controlling.
The mortgages and the bonds are valid and binding as
against the company; the company owes a large debt for the
construction of its road, which is represented by the bonds;
there was no bad faith, irregularity, deceit, or fraud in the
execution of the mortgages or in the issuing of the bonds
thereunder; the bonds in the hands of Porter represent actual
values received by the company; they represent the entire
purchase money that was paid for the Chicago and Block Coal
railroad, extending south from Attica to Yeddo; they represent all the money that was paid directly by Drexel, Morgan
& Co., through their agent, for the construction of the railroad
north of Attica, a considerable portion of which money was
paid to these five dppellees; thejr represent all the money that
was paid by Crawford out o: his own means for the construction of the new railroad north of Attica; in fact, they represent all the money that has ever been paid by the company
for the Chicago and Block Coal railroad and for the construction of the sixty miles of new road from Attica to Fair Oaks,

OCTOBER TERm , 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

excepting only 'some $40,000 or $50,000 received from aid
voted by townships.
To the objection, that, at the time the mortgage
of November 1, 1881, was executed and the bonds were issued, Crawford owned the entire stock of the company and dominated
the board of directors, and that the mortgage and bonds were
issued under his dictation and coercion, even if such an objection could be legally tenable, it is a sufficient answer, that
when the mortgage was made, and the $1,000,000 of bonds
were issued and pledged to Dull and McCormick, Crawford
was not a director or officer of the company. Foster was its
.president, and he and his associates constituted the entire
board of directors, and they remained in full control until
March 15, 1882. That this board was not dominated or
controlled by Crawford is shown by the fact that when, on
February 7, 1882, eleven days after Crawford had delivered
in pledge to Dull & McCormick the $1,000,000 of bonds,
Crawford asked 'the board to enter into a construction contract with him, and sent them a draft of the contract which
he desired, the board unanimously rejected it. At the time
the mortgage was executed, and at the time the bonds were
issued and pledged to Dull and McCormick, Crawford held
$50,250 par value of the stock, and Foster held $10,000 par
value of it. The mere fact that Crawford owned a majority
of the stock *did not give him the legal control of the company; nor from such ownership can the legal inference be
drawn that he dominated the board of directors. Pu/nan
CJar Co. v. .MissouriPacifi Co., 115 U. S. 587, 596.
The circumstances attending the issuing of the $1,000,000
of bonds show that they were issued by Foster and his board
of directors in good faith, and largely for indebtedness of the
company then existiihg. There is no foufidation for the suggestion that the mortgage and the bonds were without consid'eration, nor does it lie in the mouths of these appellees to
raise the objection as to the absence of a legal board of directors of the company; for, if the mortgage and the bonds are
invalid for want of such legal board, and for want of the
legal existence of the corporation, the contracts between these

PORTER v. PITTSBURG BESSEMER STEEL CO.

671

Opinion of the Court.

appellees and the company, upon which their claims are based,
are invalid for the same reason, and. the consolidation by
which the company procured the Chicago and Black Coal
Company's road would be void, and that road would be free
from all debts incurred by the Chicago and Great Southern
Railway Company. M[oreover, the directors were directors
de facto, who held themselves out to the world as such, under
such circumstances that their 'official acts bind the corporation
and all persons who claim under it.
The claims of the appellees are for the original construction
of the railroad. This is not a case where the proceeds of the
sale of the property of a railroad, as a completed structure,
open for travel and transportation, are to be applied to restore.
earnings which, instead of having been applied to pay operating expenses and necessary repairs, have been diverted to pay
interest on mortgage bonds and the improvement of the mortgaged property, the debts due for the operating expenses and
repairs having remained unpaid when a receiver was appointed.
The equitable principles upon which the decisions rest, applytog to the payment, out of the proceeds of the sale of railroad
property, of such debts for 6perating expenses and necessary
repairs, are not applicable to claims such as the present,
accrued for the original construction of a railroad while there
was a subsisting mortgage upon it. These five appellees gave
credit, to the company for their work. It was construction
work, and none of it was for operating expenses or repairs,
and none of it went towards keeping a completed road in
operation, either in the way of labor or of material. When
these claims accrued, the road of the company haid not been
opened for use. The claims accrued after the mortgage had
been executed and recorded, and after $1,000,000 of the bonds
secured by it had been issued and pledged to innocent bona
jide holders for value. We are not aware of any well-considered adjudged case which, in .the absence of a statutory provision, holds that unsecured floating debts for construction are
a lien on a railroad superior to the lien of a valid mortgage
duly recorded, and of bonds secured thereby, and held by bona
ftde purchasers for value. The authorities are all the other
way.

OCTOBER ,TERAI, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

On the facts of this case, the mortgage and the bonds are
not.affected by the existence of Crawford's construction contract, which was made on the 18th of M arch, 1882, after the
issuing of the bonds and the pledging of them to Dull and
M cCormick. The amount of those bIJnds constitute the present value of the entire railroad property. By the construction
contract, Crawford, in consideration of the bonds and stock
which he was to receive underit, bound himself not only to
complete, but to equip the road. The contract was not an
unfair one. It was performed in part. Only $200,000 of the
bonds were issued after the construction contract was made.
At the date of that contract, Crawford was a large creditor
of the company for money advanced by him and expended in
construction. He had been advancing from his own means
large amounts of money, and it was to reimburse to him the
$3D0,000 or $400,000 of his own means already expended in
the work, and to enable him to complete the payment for the
Chicago and Block Coal railroad, and to proceed with the
work of construction, that the $1,000,000 of bonds were issued
to him. All the money received by the company for the
bonds went into the property. The property produced by
that money has never been worth wht was expended in its
production. From the date of the construction contract, the
company was never able to issue or deliver a single bond
under it, except by the consent of Dull and McCormick, or of
Drexel, Morgan & Co., the parties who held the bonds and
stock in pledge. The advances of money made by Crawford
after the date of the construction contract were made without
any security to him. Every bond issued after the date of the
contract with Drexel, Morgan & Co. was required by that
contract to be delivered directly to them, as additional security
to.them. Crawford realized no profits out of the mortgaged
property, and never received anything for his services, or any
reimbursement of the large sums of money he expended in
this work., On these facts, it is impossible to see that the
existence of the construction contract can have any bearing
upon the case. Under any circumstances, no contract under
which about sixty miles of railroad had been constructed would

PORTER v. P1TTSBURG BESSEMER STEEL CO.

673

Opinion of the Court.

be held invalid for the reasons assigned in this case, without the
repayment to the contractor of the amount actually expended
by him in good faith under the contract. Thomas v. Brownville Railroad Co., 109 U.-S. 522, 526.
Aloreover, it is a well settled principle, that subsequent creditors cannot be heard to, impeach an executed $'ntract, where
their dealings with the company, of which they claim the
benefit, occurred after the contract became an executed contract. GrahamL v. ]Railroad Co., 102 T. S. 148. The claims
of all the appellees e.-cept the Cleveland Rolling Mill Company accrued after the construction contract was made. As to
that company, it, after the construction contract was made,
and while Crawford was carrying on the work of construction
under it, knowingly received on account of its claims money
which came directly from Drexel, Morgan & Co., as a result
of the pledge of the bonds to that firm.
Dull and McCormick, Drexel, Morgan & Co., and Porter
were respectively, in succession, purchasers in good faith of
these bonds, as negotiable commercial securities, without .notice
of any irregularity or infirmity in them; and are entitled to
the benefit of the principles applicable under such circumstances. Porter paid to Drexel, Morgan & Co. more than
.$392,000 in money for the bonds, and, under all circumstances,
is entitled to protect his title by that of Drexel, Morgan & Co.,.
and, through them, by the title of Dull and McCormick.
It is contended for the appellees that Porter did not purchase the bonds from Drexel, Morgan & Co., but bought them
directly from Crawford. The evidence shows that CrawNford,
after January 27, 1882, the date at which he pledged the
-1,000,000 of bonds to Dull and McCormick, never had one of'
those bonds in his possession or under his control. Dull and
McCormick, not Crawford, delivered the bonds to Drexel,
Morgan & Co., upon the payment to them by Drexel, Morgan
& Co. of the debt due to them on account of the purchase of
the Chicago and Block Coal raihoad. The $200,000 of bonds
issued after the negotiation of the loan from Drexel, Morgan
& Co. were at once delivered to them, under their contract of
pledge. This pledge vested in them the legal title to the
. VOL. cxx-43

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

bonds, and Porter purchased that legal title from them. In
opposition to this view, it is urged that the terms of the written
agreement between Crawford and Porter of December 26,
1884, show that the purchase by Porter was from Crawford;
but the true purport and effect of that instrument is, as before
stated, a sale by Crawford to Porter and his associates of
Crawford's right to redeem the bonds from Porter and his
associates by paying the amount of money which Porter had
paid to Drexel, Morgan & Co. By the contract of June 25,
1884, between Porter and Nickerson and Drexel, Mbrgan &
Co., the former bound themselves to pay to the latter Crawford's debt to them, upon receiving from them the stock and
bonds which they held as collateral to the debt. 'Nickerson
assigned to Porter his interest in this contract, and Porter paid
to Drexel, Morgan & Co. the amount of Crawford's debt to
-them, and took from them the bonds pledged to them by
Crawford as collateral. By this transaction Porter became
the owner of the legal title to the bonds, and was subrogated
to all the rights of Drexel, Morgan & Co. in them. The contract of December 26, 1884, between Crawford and Porter,
merely extinguished Crawford's right to redeem the pledged
bonds. Under these circumstances, whatever it was that Porter purchased from Crawford, the former would, in equity, be
subrogated to all the rights of Drexel, Morgan & C6., and,
through them, to all the rights of Dull and McCormick.
-Certain clauses in the agreement between Crawford and
Porter of December 26, 1884, are cited as creating an equity
or lien in favor of the appellees. By one clause in the agreement the syndicate represented by Porter agrees: "Second.
To pay and clear off any and all claims against said Chicago
and Great Southern Railway Company which may be decided
by the court to be liens upon the said line of railway paramount to the lien of the bonds and coupons secured by the
trust deed to said John C. New, dated November 1, 1881, or
which the-court -may decide shall be equitably payable out of
the proceeds of the sale of the said line of railway prior to any
payment of the said bonds or coupons, including therein any
and all claims for right of way aid depot grounds, engine-house

PORTER v. PITTSBURG BESSEMER.STEEL CO.

675

Opinion of the Court.

and station buildings, water-tanks and shops, between Fair Oaks
and Yeddo, both inclusive, bridges and other structures heretofore built and put in place on said railway, and essential-to the
operation thereof, but the title to which is not in said railway
company, and which the court may decide must be paid for
in preference to said bonds, and also any and all indebtedness
incurred by the receiver in.possession of said property prior to
January 155 1885, and not paid out of moneys earned by the
operation of said road prior'to January 15,1885." By the same
instrument, Crawford agrees as follows: "Section 5. The party
of the first part hereby, in consideration of the premises, guarantees and agrees that the claims, liens, and other possible indebtedness mentioned in subdivision two, which shall be held
to be prior in right to payment over said twelve hundred bonds
and coupons, shall not in any event exceed the sum of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000)."
These clauses do not create the lien or equity.supposed.
They leave the question as to the existence of any such
"claims, liens, and other possible indebtedness," mentioned in
the agreement, to be adjudicated by the court, and also leave
to be decided by the court the question of the priority of such
claims over the bonds, and merely provide for the rights of
the parties as between themselves in case the court establishes
such priority. As before said, the purpose of Crawford, in
making the agreement of December 26, 1884, was to protect
the second pledge of the bonds and stock to the First National
Bank of Chicago, he having put into the construction'of the
railroad about $100,000 of the money which he had borrowed
from the bank; and he immediately assigned to the bank all
his interest in the contract with Porter. The contract between
Porter and Crawford, and that between Crawford and the
bank, having been entered into in contemplation of the purchase of the bonds from Drexel, Morgan & Co. by Porter, the
legal relation of the appellees to the' company and to its property, as unsecured holders of construction claims, was not
affected by these transactions, so as to give .them any greater
rights against the mnortgaged property than they had previously had. In any event, as before said, the bonds *vould be

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

sustained in the hands of Porter, as a first lien, to the amount
actually advanced upon the faith of the pledge of them and
expended in constructing the railroad, with interest. It is
foumd bythe final decree that there is now in court $325,194.27
derived from the sale of the mortgaged property. All the
money advanced by Drexel, Morgan & Co. went directly into
this property. The amount paid by Porter to Drexel, Morgan
& Co., on January 12, 1885, was $392,363.24, exceeding by
$67,168.97 the entire net proceeds in court, saying nothing
about interest for over two years on the amount. paid by Porter. This view is entirely conclusive of this case, and shows
that there is no fund in court arising f-pn the sale of the property that can upon any principle be held applicable to the payment of the construction claims of these appellees; and this is
irrespective of the fact that, in addition, Crawford put into
this property, in good faith, out of his own individual means,
the further sum of $600,000.
It is contended, however, that Crawford was all the time
substantially the owner of the entire railroad property, and
that the claims of the appellees were debts due to them from
Crawford for work and material in constructing his railroad,
and that these claimants have a lien, in this way, superior to
the lien of the mortgage bonds. In answer to this view, in
addition to the suggestions already made, and treating Crawford as the owner of the railroad, it may be said, that the
rights of Porter would be no different from his rights as d~aling with the company as owner of the property. The delivery by Crawford of the bonds secured by a mortgage made by
himself on the railroad, to a third person, for a valuable consideration, made the mortgage a valid security, and made the
bonds in the hands of Dull and McCormick a valid lien on the
railroad. An owner of a railroad, though he may be in debt
to those who aid in constructing it by furnishing materials,
may still execute a mortgage on it which will be good against
unsecured creditors. No more than this was done, upon the
theory we are now considering. The creditors would have no
lien superior to the lien of the bonds. The mortgage was
recorded, and the $1,000,000 of bonds were issued before the

PORTER v. PITTSBURG'BESSEMER STEEL CO.

677

Opinion of the Court.

claims accrued. It results from these views, that the entire
purchase money now in court, arising from the foreclosure
sale, after paying the costs and the receiver's indebtedness,
should be paid out upon the bonds and coupons secured by
the mortgage, in preference to the payment of the claims of.
the appellees, such net amount being less than the amount of
money advanced by Drexel, Morgan & Co. on the pledge of
the bonds and reimbursed to them by Porter.
It has been contended foz the appellees, that the appeals by
Porter now under consideration are appeals only from the
decree of October 9, 1886; that he did fiot perfect any appeal
from the decree of February 16, 1886-; that the .latter decree
was a final decree; that the errors which Porter now insists
on were errors committed in entering the decree of February
16, 1886; and that none of the errors now assigned can be
considered by this court, because of the want of any appeal
from the decree of February 16, 1886, and because -the adjudications now complained of were made by that decree, and not
by the decree of October 9, 1886.
It is a sufficient answer to these contentions to say, that the
decree of February 16, 1886, though a final decree of foreclosure and sale as respected the interest of the mortgagor.
and in some other respects, was not a final decree in respect
of the matters involved in these appeals. The sixth clause of
that decree merely provided that all unpaid, valid claims
against the company for right of way, lands, labor, rollingstock, and material used in the construction and betterment
of the railway, were prior, superior, and paramount to the lien
of the mortgages and the bonds; but determined nothind as
to who were the holders of such claims, or as to what were
their amounts. It designated no persons who could he appellees in any appeal by Porter in respect of such claims, and it
provided for a reference to ascertain who were the several
claimants undeithe sixth paragraph of the decree, and what
were the amounts due. to them severally. The first and only
decree from which Porter could appeal, in respect of the
claims of these appellees, was the decree of October 9, 1886.
The sale made under the decree of February 16, 1886, was

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Syllabus.

not made subject to any claim of any of these appellees. An
amendment of that decree, made on the 2d of March, 1886,
prior to the sale, provided "that the sale of the property hereinbefore ordered shall pass to the purchaser a title thereto,
free and discharged of all liens and claims, including the two
classes of claims mentioned in the sixth paragraph of said
decree." The question of the existence and priority of those
claims is, therefore, one open for consideration on these appeals.
The various questions above stated as being raised by the
appellees, which are not particularly adverted to, have been
fully considered, and it is not regarded as necessary to further
remark upon them, or upon the special points made in regard
to the particular claims of the appellees, as the views on which
we have rested the case seem to us to be controlling on those
questions and points.
The decree of the Circuit Court, made October 9th, 1886, is
Pei~ersed, in so far as it decrees that the claims of the five
appellees are prior, superior,andparamnount to the lien of
the mortgages or deeds of trust mentioned in the decree of
February 16th, 1886, and of the bonds secured thereby;
and in so far as it provides for the payment to the appellees, out of the fund in the registry of the court, of the
several sums of money specifed in, the said decree of the
.9th of October, 1886 and the case is remanded to the Circuit Court, with a direction to take such further proceedings as shalZ. not be inconsistent with this opinion.

BALDWIN v. FRANKS.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
Suibmitted April 26, 188. -Decided

Marcb 7,1887.

Congress has power, under the.Constitution, to provide for the punishment
of persons guilty of depriving Ch1inese subjects of any of the rights,
privileges, immunities, or exemptions guaranteed .to them by the treatY

