MEMPHIS,

&c., RAILROAD v. DOW.
Statement of Fadts.

the writ of habeas corpus prayed for, and to take suck
.proceedingsthereon, as may be in conformity with law and
not inconsistent with t]te opinion of this court.

MEMPHIS & LITTLE ROCK RAILROAD v. DOW.
APPEAL FROM THE

CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
Argued November 11, 12, 1886.-Decided January 24, 1887.

The provision in the constitution of Arkansas of 1874 that "no private corporation shall issue stock or bonds except for money or property actually received, or labor done; and all fictitious increase of stock or
indebtedness shall be void" does not prevent the carrying out of an
agreement between mortgage bondholders of an embarrassed railroad
company in that state by which it was agreed that trustees should buy
in the mortgaged property on foreclosure, and convey it to a new company to be organized by the bondholders which should issue new mortgage bonds to pay the expenses of the sale, and other new mortgage
bonds to be taken by the bondholders in lieu of their old bonds, and
full paid up stock subject to the mortgage debt, to be delivered to and
held by the bondholders without any payment of money; and the bonds
issued under such an agreement are not subject to the provisions of
§ 5, 488 Rev. Stat. Ark., 3Iansfield's Digest, page 1057, respecting the
legal rate of interest for certain classes of railroad securities.
Trustees under a mortgage from a railroad company with covenants of
warranty are entitled to protect the trust property against a forced sale
under a prior incumbrance, and upon the payment of that incumbrance
to have the benefit of its lien as against the company, and to be reimbursed the"amount so paid by them with legal interest: but the. rate of
interest allowed by the court below in this case was in excess of the

legal rate.

THE appellant, the Memphis and Little Reck Railroad Company, (as reorganized,) an Arkansas corporation, conveyed, by
deed of May 2, 1877, to Pierson, Matthews, and Dow, trustees,
its road and connections, and all its property, rights, and privileges, including its franchise to be a corporation, to secure the
payment of its bonds of the same date, aggregating 82,600,000,

OCTOBER TFRm, 1886.
Statement of Facts.

and payable in thirty years, subject to a mortgage for $250,000,
executed Xay 1, 1877. The deed provided for the employment, at the expense of the trust estate, of such attorneys and
agents as were reasonably necessary for the execution of the
trust, and, also, for the payment of charges, costs, expenses,
and compensation, incurred by the trustees, from time to time,
"in and about or for the execution of the trust."
On the 4th day of March, 1882, the Supreme Court of
Arkansas, in a suit to which that corporation was a party,
rendered a decree adjudging that the state had a lien upon its
road-and rolling stock to secure the payment of $202,133.32,
with interest, from December 22, 1879, until paid, at the rate
of eight per cent. per annum; that being the aggregate prinbipal ind interest then due on a loan of $100,000 made January 10, 1861, by the state to the (old) Memphis and Little Rock
Railroad Company, and secured by a mortgage upon its
rolliig stock and upon the same road now operated by the
appellant.
On the 25th of March, 1882, five days before the day fixed
for the sale directed to be made in satisfaction of that decree,
the appellees, (Moran having succeeded Pierson,) as trustees in
the deed of May 2,1877, paid into the treasury of Arkansas
the sum of $239,672.71 in full discharge of,the state's claim.
The appellees sought by this suit to be subrogated to the
rights of the state, and to charge the mortgaged property
and interests with the amount so paid by tliem, with interest
thereon, and, also,. with such sums as might be ascertained to
be due by reason of liabilities incurred, and costs, time, and
labor expended by them in and about the trust.
The company resisted each of the claims asserted by the
appellees. -Its answer proceeded mainly upon the ground that
the bonds secured by the deed of May 2, 1877, were and continued to -be void under the constitution and laws of Arkansas,
fhaving been issued, it was alleged, to the stockholders of the
appellant without consideration in money, labor, or property
actually received, of which fact the plaintiffs and every original taker of the bonds were advised, and as to which subsequent takers, if such there were, were put upon inquiry by the

MErPHIS, &c., RAILROAD "v. DOW.

•989

Statement of Facts.

recitals in the mortgage securing their payment. Consequently,
it was contended, the appellees were under no duty, and had
no legal right as trustees, or in any other capacity, to intervene and satisfy the decree in favor of the state, or to incur
liability or costs in reference to the defendant's property. The'
company also filed a cross-bill, setting forth the same grounds,
and praying that upon final hearing the deed of May 2, 1877,
and the bonds thereby secured, be declared void.
The court sustained exceptions to the answer and ademurrer
to the cross-bill, dismissing the latter for want of equity, and
rendering a decree in accordance with the prayer of the .bill.
By the decree, the appellees were subrogated to all -of the
rights of the state under the decree of March 4, 1882 ; and for
the amount so paid by them,.with interest thereon from March
25, 188-2, at the rate of eight per cent. per annum, aggregating,
$261,456.27, together with interest on the latter sum at.the
same rate, from the date of the decree herein, they were adjudged to have a lien upon the property, rights, and interests
embraced by the deed of May 2, 1877, subject - the appellees.
having consented thereto - to the lien created by that deed as.
well as by a deed executed May 1, 1877. A decree was also
entered against the company for $29,580.87, the amount found
due to the plaintiffs for services rendered in and about the.
trust, and for couisel fees and costs in this suit. To this pro-.
vision of the decree the appellant also objected upon gTounds
to which reference will be hereafter made.
The principal question related to the validity of the $2,600,000 issue of bonds secured by the deed of May "2,1877.
The principal facts, chronologically stated, which bore upon
this and other questions in the case were as follows: The
Memphis and Little Rock Railroad Company was incorporated
in 1853 under the laws of Arkansas, with authority to increase
its capital to a sum sufficient to complete and .operate a railroad between Memphis and.Little Rock, by opening books for
new stock or by selling new stock, or by borrowing money
secured by mortgage of its charter and stock. Its stockholdes, at a meeting held February 20, 1860, adopted a resolution authorizing the board of directors; for the purpose of
voL. c~xx-19

2190

2 OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Statemeit of Facts.

building and equipping the road, to increase the capital stock
of the cqmpany to $1,300,000, by issuing coupon bonds of
$1000 each, bearing eight per cent. interest, convertible at any
,time within ten years thereafter into shaes of stock-such
bonds to be secured by mortgage upon the company's road,
charter, works, and real estate, or either of them. The action
of the stockholders having been ratified by the directors, the
company by deed of trust executed May 1, 1860, conveyed to
Tate and others its franchises, property, privileges, road, roadbed, right of way, rolling stock, and works, in trust to secure
its/ bonds, aggregating $1,300,000, payable thirty years after
date, with interest at the rate. of eight per cent. per annum.
On the 10th of Ja-fuary, 1861, it placed a mortgage upon its
ro-ad and rolling stock to secure the befoke-)nentioned state
loan of $100,000, with interest from that date until paid, at
the rate of eight per cent. By deed of March 1, 1871, it conveyed its franchises, property, and net income,, to Henry F.
Vail, in trust to secure other bonds, amounting to $1,000,000,
payable thirty years therbafter, with interest at the rate of
eight per cent. per annum. The company having made default in the payment of interest on the latter bonds, Vail, the
trustee, on the 17th day of March, 1872, sold and conveyed
these properties, rights, privileges, and franchises, for'$15,000
in cash, subject to all prior and superior liens, to one Stillman
Witt, who purchased in behalf of the holders of bonds, secured
by the deed of March 1, 1871. Subsequently, March 29, 1873,
Witt executed a deed declaring the respective interests of the
parties whom he represented, and conveying to each his proportionate share of the property and interests so purchased.
On 'the 17th of November, 1873, the grantees in the latter
deed conveyed the same property, rights, and franchises to the
Memphis and Little Rock Railway Oompany - 9 corporation
then recently organized under the laws of Arkansas, by the
parties to whom. Witt conveyed, subject, however, to the condition that that company should execute its bonds for $2,600,-,
.000, secured by first mortgage to the New York Guaranty
and Indemnity Company-that amount, according to the
estimate of the parties, being less than the principal and in-

MEMPHIS, &c., RAILROAD -o. DOW.

-291

Statement of Facts.

terest due oi the $1,300,000 mortgage of May 1, 1860, and

other indebtedness theretofore incurred in the construction
and equipment of the road. In conformity with that condition the railway company executed, December 1, 1873, a
mortgage securing its bonds for $2,600,000. That mortgage
provided among other things, ihat "in case of any sale, judicial or otherwise, of the premises embraced in this mortgage,
and the holders of a majority in interest of the then outstanding bonds secured by this mortgage shall, in writing, request
the said trustee, or its successor or successors, or his or their
survivor or survivors, so to do it, they or he is authorized to
purchase the premises embraced herein for the use and benefit
of the holders of the then outstanding bonds and coupons secured by, this mortgage. And that, having so purchased said
premises, the right and title thereto shall vest in said trustee
or trustees, and no bondholder shall have any claim to the
premises or to the proceeds. thereof, except for his Pro iata
share of the proceeds of said premises as represented in. a new
company or corporation to be -formed by a majority in interest
of said bondholders for the use and benefit of the holders of
the bonds secured hereby. And whenever the holders of a
majority of said bonds shall have organized a new company or
corporation for the use and benefit of all the holders of the
bonds secured by this mortgage, the said trustee, or its successor or successors, or his or their survivor or survivors, shall
reconvey the premises so purchased by it, him, or them to said
new company or corporation."
The N'ew York Guaranty and Indemnity Company was
succeeded in the trist by Pierson, Dow, and Matthews. The
railway con)any having made deiault in meeting the interest
on its bonds, and,the principal, under the terms of the deed of
trust, bedorning bhereby due, the trustees instituted a suit for
foreclosure. Pending that suit, Tate and others, trustees in
the mortgage of May 1, 1860, were made coplaintiffs. The
bill was amended and the prayer for relief so enlarged as to
include a foreclosure of the latter mortgage. Both mortgages
were foreclosed by final decree of November 1, 1876, the
amount fmfind to be due on that of M1ay 1, 1860, being $1,088,-

OCTOBER TERM.

1886.

Statement of Facts.

348.80, with-interest at the rate of six per cent. per annum,
and the. amount due onithat of December 1, 1873, being
$3,016,000. The decree, provided, among other things, "that
if said trustees shall be so requested, and shall bid for said
'property, they shall pay into courf a sufficieit sum to pay the
c6sts of sale and this suit, including counsel fees, allowances to
trustees, to the commissioner for sale,\and master of this court.
And for the residue, their bid to the amount due and ordered
to be paid by this decree shall be accepted by said commissioner, and he shall forthwith execute a deed conveying the
purchased property to said trustees for and upon the trusts
expressed in 'said second mortgage; that is to say, upon trust
that they will convey the same to such new company or corporation as may be organized by the' holders of a majority in
interest of said bonds upon demand thereof."
At the sale under that decree, Pierson, Dow, and Matthews,
as trustees in the deed of December 1, 1873, purchased the
property for the holders of bonds secured by that instrument,
and a deed was made to them, on April 28, 1877, in trust for
such holders, "and upon the further trust that they will convey the same and all thereof to such company or corporation
as may be formed by the holders of a majority of such bonds
at such time and upon such terms and conditions as a majority
of the holderd of such bonds may require."
On the day last' mentioned the majority, in value, of such
bondholders entered into articles of association reorganizing
the Memphis and Little Rock Railroad Company and fixing
its capital stock at $1,300,000. The parties engaged in the reorganization being holders of the bonds secured by the deed of
December T, 1873, and beneficiaries under the deed of April
28, 1877, took the entire stock*to themselves without paying
t-herefor in money. The articles, after declaring that each
and every share of the above-named stock was fully laid
ztoci , and a~knowledging, on behalf of the company, that one
iuncfred dollars had been paid upon each share by the holder
thereof, provided:
"That we hereby require the said trustees, William S. Pierson Watson Matthews, aid R. K. Dow, to convey all and

-MEAMPHIS, &c., RAILROAI

v. DOW.

Statement of Facts.

singular the property, charter, franchises, rights, privileges,
and immunities, so convey-ed to them by such commissioner,
to the Memphis and Little Rock Railroad Company, as reorganized, upon the following terms and conditions, to wit:
"1. That said railroad company, as reorganized, shall issue
its two hundred and fifty bonds, payable to bearer at the office
of the Central Trust Company of New York, in the city of
New York, each for one thousand dollars, maturing in five
equal instalments, on the first days of May, in the years 1879,
1880, 1881, 1882, and 1883, bearing interest from date at the
rate of ten per centum per annum, payable semiannually at
the same place, with coupons for said -interest annexed; and
shall secure the. payment of the principal and interest thereof
by a mortgage of all and singular the said property, charter,
franchises, rights, privileges, and immunities, of which mortgage said Pierson, Matthews, and Dow shall be trustees, and.
shall deliver the same to the said Pierson, Matthews, and Dow,
to be by them sold, and the proCeds -applied to the payment
of.the liens upon the said property reserved 'by the decree of
the said court directing the sale thereof, and to the payment
of moneys b.orrowed by them to make- the cash payment
required by said decree,
"2. That said Memphis and Little Rock Railroad Company,
as reorganized, shall execute and deliver to said Pierson, Matthews, and Dow, its two thousand five hundred and seventyfive other bonds,. each for the um of one thousand dollars;
and its one hundred other bonds, each for two hubdred and
fifty dollars, payable at ;the same place thirty years after date,
bearing interest from the first day of July, 1878, and until the
first day of, July, 1882, at the rate of four per centum er
annum, and after the last-named date at eight per centun per
annum, payable at the same place, with coupons for such
interest attached; and shall make provision for a sinking fund
for redemption of such bonds, and shall secure payment of
said bonds, interest, and sinking fund, by a mortgage of ll
said property, charter, franchises, rights, privileges, and immunities, of which mortgage said Pierson, Matthews, and Dow
shall be trustees; such last-named bonds to be by said Pierson,

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Argument for Appellant.

Matthews, and Dow equally distribuied among the holders of
the bonds secured by the mortgage of the )emphis and Little
Rock Ra;lway Company, of date Decembcr 1, 1873."
These terms were formally accepted by the stocldolders,
and on April 30, 1877, the trustees conveyed to the reorganized
company the property, rights, and interests so purchased, sub-.
ject to the terms, conditions, and trusts prescribed in its said
Articles of Association.
Pursuant to the conditions upon which it received title, the
appellant, on May 1, 1877, issued its bonds, amounting to
$250,000, and, to secure their payment, conveyed tlie same
property, rights, and interests to Pierson, Dow, and Matthews,
as trustees. The proceeds of these bonds were applied in payment of the expenses of foreclosure and reorganization. In
further compliance with these termns, the appellant issued its
bonds for $2,600,000 for distribution among the holders of
bonds secured by the mortgage of December 1, 1873, and, to
secure their payment, executed the before-mentioned mortgage
or deed of trust of May 2, 1877. The recitals in the deed
disclosed all the foregoing circumstances connected with the
organization of the appellant corporation, and with its acquisition of these properties.
[The provisipns of § 8, art. 12, of the Constitution of Arkansas of 1877, and the provisions of § 5488 of the Revised Statutes of Arkansas, Mansfield's Digest, page 1057, which were
supposed to apply to this reorganization, are stated below in
the opinion of the court.]
.Ur.. T ager Swayne and .r. B. C. _Brown (Mr. John F.
Dillon and 1r. J. C. Brown ivere with them on the brief),
for appellant, cited: -Root v. Godard,3 McLean, 102; -ayden,
v. Davies, 3 McLean, 276; Root v. Wallace, 4 McLean, 8;
Harris v. .Lannels, 12 How. 79; Ar.mstrong v. Toler, 11
Wheat. 258; CincinnatiIns. Co. v. Rosenthal, 55 II. 85; Leavitt v. Palmer,3 N. Y. 19; S. C. 51 Am. Dec. 333; Southeen
Loan Co. v. il[orris,2 Penn. St. 175; S. C. 44 Am. Dec. 188;
Dazidson v. Lanier, 4 Wall. 447; B ank of the United States
v. Owens, 2 Pet. 527; Brown v. Tarkingtoa,3 Wall. 377; Peck

MEMPHIS,

&c., RAILROAD v. DOW.

Mr. Rose's Argument for Appellees.

v. Burr, 10 N. Y. 294; -Bartonv. Port Jaekson Co., 17 Barb.
397; ltica Ins. Co. v. Scott, 19 Jolms. 1; TForthen v. Badgett,
32 Ark. 496; E,,agle v. Beard, 33 Arlk. 497; Valett v. Parker,
6 Wend. 615; Dewing v. Perdecaries,96 LT. S. 193; German
Bank v. De &tSon, 41 Ark. 331; Stanton v. .Alabama & Cattanooga Railroad 2 -Woods, 523; -Yerrison v. Stewart, 93
U. S. 155 ; Corcoranv. Chesapeake c Ohio Canal Co., 94 "U'.S.
741 ; T2omas v. Railroad Co., 101 IT. S. 71 ; CoJppell v. Hall,
7 Wall. 542; In re Comtockh, 3 Sawyer, 218; Collins v. Blantern, 2 Wilson, 341, and notes in 1 Sm. Lead. Cas.; Pac!fXe
Railroadv. .fissouriPaciic Railrbad,111 U. S. 505; Lloyd
v. Scott, 4 Pet. 205; Jackson v. Dominick, 14 Johns. 435;
.De IWof v. Johnson, 10 Wheat. 367; Weed Sewing .Machine
Co. v. .Emerson, 115 Mass. 554; .3emphis & Little Rock Railroad v. Berry, 41 Ark. 436; gSrewsbury, &c., Railway x.
lTorthwestern Railway, 6 HI. L. Gas. 113; Commonwealth Y.,
Smith, 10 Allen, 448; Head v. Providence Ins. Co., 2 Cranch,
127; Chambers v. .Afanchester & iNilford Railway, 5 B. &
S. 588; Rockwell v. Elkhorn *Bank,13 Wis. 653; Kent Coast
Railway v. London, Chatham & Dover Railway,'3 L. R. Ch.
656; Guckenheimer v. Angevine, 81 N. Y.. 394,- IFilkinsonr v.
Babldt, 4 Dillon, 207; Railroad Co. v. Soutter, 13 Wall. 517.
.Jfr. U. ,Af Rose, for appellees, cited: -Memaphis & Little Rock
Railroad v. Dow, 19 Fed. Rep. 388, and cases therein-cited;
Duncan v. Jaudon, 15 Wall. 165; Railroad Co. v. Howard, 7
Wall. 392; 3echanics'Bank v. Ni7ew -ork Railroad, 13 N. Y.
5 9;
eaver v. Barden, 49 N. Y. 286;. Sliaw v. Spencer, 100
Mass. 382; 3emphiB, &c., Railroad v. Berry, 41 Ark. 436;
6Crdova v. Hood, 17' Wall. 1; Richard on v. 11amlett, 33 Ark.
237 ; Craig v. Leslie, 3 Wheat. 563; .liiler v. lfoore, 3 Jones
N. C. Eq. 431; Zabriskie v. Cleveland, &c., Railroad,23 How.
400; Pine *Grove v. Talcott, 19 Wall. 666; Hough v. CooX
County Land Co., 73 Ill. 23; Bradley v. Ballard,55 Ill. 413;
Houston Railroad v. Shirley, 54 Texas, 125; Bank v. Hammond, 1 Rich. S. 0. Eq. 281; Grant v. Hlenry Clay Coal Co.,
80 Penn. St.'208; .fratoran Water Co. -V.Clarkin, 14 Cal. 5-44 ;
Darst v. Gale, 83 Ill. 136; Union Water Co. v. i3Jurphy Co.,

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Air. Bower's Argument for Appellees.

22 Cal. 620; Southernh
Is. Co. v. Lanier, 5 Fla. 110; S. C. 58
Am. Dec. 448; Third Avenue Bank v. Dinock, 24 N. J. Eq.
(90. E. Green) 26; -Natchezv. 3allery, 54 Miss. 499; Chicago
Building Society v. Crowell, 65 Ill. 453; Attleborough I2ational
Bank v. Rogers, 125 Mass. 339; Indianav. Wforam, 6 1ill. 33;
S. C. 40 Am. Dec. 378; Steam .3tav. Co. v. Weed, 17 Barb:
378; Underwood v. NTewport-Lysum, 5 B. Mon. 129; S. C. 41
Am. Dec. 260; State Board v. Citizens' Railway Co., 47 Ind.
407; Doyle v. Peerless Petroleum Co., 44 Barb. 239; Sturges
v. Knayrp, 31 Vt. 1; TMitman 3lining Co. v. Baker, 3 Nevada,
386; Railway Co. v. 31c0arthy, 96 U. S. 258; Hotel Co. v.
Tade, 97 U. S. 13; Hitchcock v. Galveston, 96 ,U. S. 341;
E. x _parte C'hi pendale, 4 De G. M. & G. 19; In re Cork &
Tougal Railway Co., 4 L. R. Oh. 748; Tvot's Case, 29 Beav.
353; Hoares Caa.30 Beav. 225; Peck v. Gurney, 13 Eq. 79;
Peabody v. Flint,6 Allen, 52; Royal Bank v. Grand Junction
Railway Co., 125 Mass. 490; In re Pinto Silver Xining Co.,.
8 Ch. Div. 273; Thion son v. -Lambert,44 Iowa, 239; -Kentv.
Quicksilver Xining Co., 78 N. Y. 159; Cozart v. Georgia Railroad Co., 54 Geo. 379; Commissionersv. January,94 U. S. 202;
Twin-Lick Oil Co. v. Mlarbury, 91 U. S. 587 ; Andrews v.
Hensler, 6 Wall. 254; 1TVational Bank v. _Jatthews, 98 U. S.
621; Benjamin v. Hobbs, 31 Ark. 151 ;' Sheldon on Subrogation,
§§ 19, 30, 31, 33, 34, 38, 40, and cases there cited; Crosby v.
Taylor, 15 Gray, 64; S. C.77 Am. Dec. 352; 'all v. Fleming,
29 Mo. 152; 5. C. 77 Am. Dec. 557; Davis v. Roosevelt, 53
Texas, 305; Johnson v. Robertson,.34 Maryland, 165; Paynev.
Hathaway, 3 Vt. 212; Webb v. Williams, Walker (Mich.) 544;
Howardv. IVorth, 5 Texas, 290; A. C. 51 Am. Dec. 769; Selleck
v. Phelps, 11 Wis. 3§0; Tompkins v. Sprout, 55 Cal. 31;
.fcLaughlin v. -Daniel,8 Dana, 182; Porter v. Doe, 10 Ark.
186; West v. Waddill, 33 Ark. 575; Summers v. Howard, 33
Ark. 490; Waggoner v. -Lyles, 29 Ark. 47; Oneida Bank v.
Ontario Bank, 21 N. Y. 490; Shall v. Biscoe, 18 Ark. 142;
Scott v. Orbison, 21 Ark. 202.
1'. John . Bowers, for appellees, cited, in addition to some
cases cited by -3r.Rose, the folowing cases not cited on his

MEMPIRIS, &c., RAILROAD v. DOW.
Opinion of the Court.

v. Emery, 32 N.
brief: Barnes v. .Mott, 64 N. Y. 397,; Pire
H=.484; Stanley v. Chester &.Birkenhead Railway, 3 Xyl. &
Cr. 773; Low v. Conecticut, &c., Railroad,45 N. H. 370;
Olcott v. Tioga Railroad,27. N. Y. 546; .Aoss v. Averill, 10
N. Y. 449; Orego 1?ailway v. Ore qom Railway & 1 7aT. Co.,
28 Fed. Rep. 505, and cases cited; ParisA v. Wheeler, 22 N.
Y. 494; Bissell v. _fich. Southern & Nforthe~rn Ind.Railroad,,
22 N.Y. 258; IFilhiamr v. Jorgn~, 111 U. S. 684; .JfeCluer v.
Afanehester & cLawrence Railroad,13 Gray, 124; .C. 74 Am.
Dec. 624.
MR.JusmIca HA.LAiw, after stating the case as above reported,
delivered the opinion of the court.

From these facts it appears that at the date of the mortgage
of May 2,-1877, appelants entire assets consisted of the property, rights 'and privileges purchased by Pierson, DoT, and
Matthews, trustees, at the sate under the decree fopecloging
.the mortgage-of December 1$ 18,73, and by them conveyed to
it, on the express condition that the beneficial owners should
receive therefor, .besides $1,300,000 in stock, its mortgage
bonds for $2,600,000. That amount, in the stock and bonds
of the appellant, was the valuation placed by such owners upon
their interests, after thking into account, as well the amount
previously expended in the construction and maintenance of
'he road, as the probable value, in the future, of the stock and
bonds to be given for a surrender of those inteiests. The
transaction was, in its essence, a purchase of said property,
rights, and privileges by the appellant at an agreed price, to
be paid in its stock and bonds. A part of the price was paid
when the $1,300,000 of stock was issued. But appellant disputes its liability upon the bonds given for the balance, upon
the theory that they were prohibited from issuing them by
the eighth section of the twelfth article of the constitution of
Arkansas, adopted in 1874. That section provides that "no
private corporation ihail issue stock or bonds, except for money
or property actually received, or labor done; and all fictitious
increase of stock or indebtedness shall be void." In support

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

of this view our attention is called to the fact, admitted by
the demurrer, that th full valae of the property, rights,
and privileges conveyed to appellant did not exceed $1,300,000, the amount at which the capital stock was fixed; and,
consequently, it is argued, the $2,600,000 of bonds were issued without any consideration received in money, property,
or labor, and represented only a fictitious indebtedness. In
other words, appellant's vendors were fully compensated for
their interests by taking to themselves its entire stock.
We do not concur in this view of the case. It does not, we
think, rest upon a sound interpretation of the state constitution. The prohibition against the issuing of stock or bonds,
except for money or property actually received or labor done,
and against the fictitious increase of stock or indebtedness,
was intended to protect stockholders against spoliation, and to
guard the public against securities that were absolutely worthless. One of the niischiefs sought to be remedied is the flooding of the market with stock and bonds that do not represent
anything whatever of substantial value., In reference to a
provision in the constitution of Illinois, adopted in 1870, containing a prohibition, as to railroad corporations, similar to
that imposed by the Arkansas cbnstitution pon all private
corporations, the Supreme Court of the former state, in Peorki
c Springfied .Railroad Co. v. Tbrapson, 103 Ill. 181, 201,
said: "The latter part of the clause of -the constitution in
question, which declares that 'all stocks, dividends, and other
fictitious increase of the capital stock or indebtedness of such
corporation shall be void,' we think, clearly points out the
chief object which the constitutional convention sought to accomplish in adopting it; and to this we must look, in a large
degree, for a solution of the language which precedes it. The
object whs, doubtless, to prevent reckless and unscrupulous
speculators, -under the guise or pretence of building a railroad
or of accomplishing some other legitimate corporate purpose,
from fraudulently issuing and putting upon the market bonds
or stocks that do not and are not intended to represent money
or property of any kiind, either in possession or expectancy, the
stock or bonds in such case being entirely fictitious. . .

MEMPHIS, &c., RAILROAID-v. DOW.

299 -

Opiuioli of the Court.

"Under this provision of the constitution, raih'oad d&mpanies
have no right to lend, give away, or sell on credit, their bonds
or stock, nor have they the right to dispose of either, except
for a present consideration, and for a corporate purpose."
IRecurring to'the language employed in the Arkansas constitution, we are of opinion that it does not necessarily indicate
a purpose to make the validity of every issue of stock or bonds
by a private corporation depend? upon the inquiry whether theinoney, property, or labor actually received therefor was of
equal value in the market with the stock or bonds so issued.
It is not clear, from the words used, that the framers of fhat
instrument intended to restrict private corporations - atleast
when acting with the approval of their stockholders - in the
exchange of their -sockor bonds for money, property, ov'labor,
upon such terms as they deem proper; provided, always, the
transaction is a real one, based upon a present consideration,
and having reference to legitimate corporate purposes, and is
not a mere device to evade the law and accomplish that which
is forbidden. We cannot suppose that the scheme whereby the
appellant acquired the property, rights, and privileges in ques-.
tion, for a given. amount of its stock and bonds, falls within the
prohibition of the state constitution. The b3neficial owners of
such interests had the right to fix the terms upon which they
would surrender those interests to the corporation of which
they were to be the sole stockholders. And that subsequent
holders of stock might not be misled, each certificate of stock
states upon its face that the holder takes this" stock subject to
$2,850,000 of mortgage bonds of the company, which are
secured by two mortgages duly recorded. All that was done
was, to reorganize the Little Rock & Memphis Railroad. Company upon the same basis, substantially, as to capital stock and
bonded indebtedness, as existed, in respect to these properties,
rights, and privileges, before the adoption of the state constitution, and while they were held and controlled by the companies which preceded the appellant in the ownership. There
was, consequently, no fictitious increase by..appellant of its
stock or indebtedness. Under these circumst qces it cannot
be fairly said that the bonds secured by e tortgage were

OCTOBER TERAi," 1886;
Opinion of the Court.

issued without any consideration whatever actually.received in
property.
Equally untenable is the position that the bonds were void
because made to bear interest at a rate in excess of that specified in.the act of January 22, 1855, now § 5488 of the Revised
Statutes of Arkansas. _fansfteld's Digest, p. 1057. The 7th
section of that act provides that, "Whenever any railroad company heretofore or hereafter incorporated in this state shall, in
the opinion of the direct6rs thereof, require an increased amount
of the capital stock, they shall, if authorized by the holders of
a majority of the stock, be, and they are hereby, authorized to
increase their capital stock to any amount not exceeding the
estimated cost of their road, and shall have power to borrow
money on the credit of the corporation, not exceeding its authorized capital stock, at a rate of interest not exceeding sevqn per
cent. per annum, and may execute its bonds therefor, in sums
of*five hundred dollars or one thousand dollars; and, to secure
the payment thereof, may pledge the property, both real and
personal, and income of such company, and, to secure the payment thereof, may execute a deed of mortgage or other instrument-of writing; and such company are hereby authorized to
sell, negotiate, pledge, or mortgage. such bonds for the benefit
of such company, and at such terms and in such places, either
within or without this state, and at such rates and for such prices
as, in the opinion of said directors, will best advance the interests of such company; and if such bonds are thus sold bonaftde
at a discount, such sale shall be as valid, in every respect, and
such securities as binding for the respective amounts thereof,
as if they were sold at their par value."
It is sufficient to spy that this statute has no application to
the present case; for there was here no increase of the existing
capital. stock of a corporation; nor were the bonds secured by
the mortgage of May 2, 1877, executed for money borrowed,
but for property, rights, and privileges conveyed to appellant
at an agreed price, to be paid in its stock and bonds.
It results, from what has been said, that the validity of the
bonds cannot be disputed upon any of the grounds stated.
Neither the constitution nor the statutes of Arkansas inter-

MEAIPHIS,

&c., RAILROAD v. DOW.
Opinion of the Court.

pose any obstacle to the full performance by the appellant of
the terms and conditions. upon which only it acquired the
ownership of the interests in question,
The appellant, in the mortgage to the appellees, covenanted
that the interests conveyed were free from encumbrances, and
that it would warrant and defend the title against all lawful
claims whatsoever. Its duty, therefore, was to protect those
interests against prior liens. Appellant having neglected to
perform that duty, the appellees, as junior encumbrancers, had.
the right tQ protect the mortgaged estate against a forced sale.
Upon payment of the amount due the state, they became entitled to the benefit of her lien upon the property. Although
the appellees did not purchase the state's claim, or become
technically, the assignee thereof, her lien will be regarded, in
equity, as subsisting, so far as is necessary for their protection.
In behalf of the appellant it -iscontended that the decree
below went beyond what was required for the indemnificati6n
of the appellees. The debt due the state, by the terms of her
contract with the old company, bore interest at the rate of
eight per cent. per annumn until paid. The entire claim, with
interest at that rate,. was paid by the appellees. But the
decree below gave a lien, as against the appellant for the
amount so paid with interest from, the date of suc4 payment,
at the same rate as was stipulated in the contract between the
state and her debto'.
The constitution of Arkansas provides that "all contracts
for a greater rate of interest than ten per centum per annum
shall be void, as to principal and interest, and the general
assembly shall prohibit the same by law; but when no rate of
interest is agreed upon, the rate shall. be six per centum per
annum." Art. 19, § 13. And by statute it is provided that
"judgments or decrees upon contracts bearing more than six:'
per cent. interest shall bear the same interest as may be specified in such contracts, and the rate of interest shall be expressed
in all such judgments and decrees; and all other judgments
and decrees shall bear interest at the rate of six per cent. per
annum until satisfaction is made as aforesaid."
The right of subrogation is not founded on contract. It is

OCTOBER TER-i,

1886.

Opinion of the Coart.

a creature of equity; is enforced solely for the purpose of
accomplishing the ends of substantial justice; and is independent of any contractual relations between the parties. All that
the appellees can, in good conscience, demand, is reimbursement for their outlay in protecting the mortgaged property
against the ppior lien of the state. When relief to that extent
is accorded, they will have no just ground to complain, e~pecially as the debt held by the state was not the personal debt
of the appellant. There was no agreement between them and
the appellant in respect to interest upon any sum they might
be compelled to pay in order to relieve the property from prior
incumbrances. If, therefore, they are adjudged to have a lien
upon the mortgaged property for the whole amount actually
paid to the state, with interest thereon, from the date of such
payment, at the rate established by law in the absence of an
agreement-as t6 rate, they -ill be fully indemnified. •It is not
f6r the court or for parties to say that the rate'of interest fixed
by law in the absence of an agreement, is not adequate compensation for delay in the payment of money. It results that
the decree, so far as it allows to appellees interest in excess of
six per cent. per annum, on the aggregate amount of principal
and interest paid by them to the state, is erroneous.
One other question remains to be determined. The appellant insists that the court below erred in giving judgment
against it for $29,580.87, the amount found to be due the
appellees for services and counsel fees herein and for costs
paid out by the appellees in this suit. We are of opinion that
the decree in this respect was right. This -allowance, as to its
amount, is fully sustained by the evidence in the cause. And
it is authorized by that clause and condition in the mortgage
of Afay 2, 1877, which provides that the appellant "will from
time to time, as incurred, pay all charges, costs, and expenses"
of the appellees, or either of them, "in and about the execution of the trust," and "will indemnify and hold harmless"
the appellees "against all costs, charges, damages, and expenses
which they or either of them may sustain or be put to in consequence of accepting this trust, or of anything which may be
done or omitted to be done under it, saving only such damages

FARLEY v. KITTSON.
Syllabus.

as may be incurred by ok arise from the culpable act or neglect"
of said appellees.
The decree below is reversed so far as it gives the appelees
interest.',qpr the aggregate amount paid'by ther *into the
treasury qf the State, at the 'rateof eight per cent. per
anatum fi'orl the time of such payment ; and the cause is
remandedq with directions to allow interest upon that
anount,from the date of payment, at the 'rate only of .
per cent. per annnmr. In all other 'espects the decree ,
aflrned. The appellant will have its costs in this court.

FARLEY v. KITTSON.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF 3IfINESOTA.
Argued March 29, N, 1SS6.- Reargued December 8,9, 186.--Decided February 7, 1857.

At the hearing upon a plea in equity and a general replication, no fact is in
issue but the truth of the mattel pleaded.
Objections to the equity of the plaintiff's claim, as stated in his bill, cannot
be taken by plea.
A plea in equity, though under oath, and negativing a material averment in
the bill, is no cvidence in the defendant's favor.
A bill in equity to enforce a contract between the plaiutiffand the defendants to purchase for theia joint benefit the )onds,secured by mortgages, of
two railroads, of one of which the plaintiff was receiver, and of the.other
general manager under the trustees in the mortgage, alleged that heperformed the agreement on his part; that the defendants purchased the"
bouds through an agent of the bondholders, and afterwards purchased
the railroads under decrees of foreclosure, and entered iWto possession
and made large profits, and refused to account to the plaintiff for his
share; and that the plaintiff, pleading the negotiations for the purchase
of the bonds, informed the agent of the bondholders of his interest, and
at all times answered to the best of his knowledge and ability all inquiries of the bondholders or tliei" agent, or of the trustees or any person
interested in the property, and always acted honestly and in good faith
towards ali ;uch persons. The defendants filed a plea, averring that
neither the agent nor the bondholders had any notice of the plaintiff's interest until after the sale of the railroads under the decrees of fore-

