MARSH v. SHEPARD.
Statement of Facts.

acres of land directly to a congregation or society "formed
for the purpose of religious worship," as distinguished from a
benevolent br missionary organization. The court held that,
under the legislation of Illinois, "a religious corporation is
aubhorized to receive or acquire lands to the extent of ten
acres and no more. Any amount in excess of that is expressly
forbidden by statute, and it follows that all conveyances,
deeds, or other contracts made in violation of this prohibition,
are absolutely void."
As the eleventh clause was intended to pass, and was valid
for the purpose of passing, to ,the Boards of Foreign and
Home Missions of the Presbyterian Church in the United
States of America the estate thereby devised, the decree must
be affirmned; and it is so ordered.

MARSH v. SHfEPARD.
APPEAL FROM

THE CIRCUIT

COURT

OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF mNCHIGAN.
Submitted March 7,1887.-Decided March 14,1887.

If the other ippellants oppose a motion, made by one of several appellants,
to dismiss an appeal on the ground that since it was taken the Supreme
Court of a state has enjoined all the appellants from enforcing the
claims which form the subject matter of the appeal, it will be denied.

Tuis was a motion to dismiss an appeal from a decree of
the Circuit Court dismissing a bill in equity brought to procure a perpetual injunction against alleged infringements of
letters-patent. The moticn was made by James Scott, one of
the appellants. The following affidavit and appearance were
filed in support of the motion.
Cailtoum County, ss.
"James Scott, being first duly sworn, doth on oath depose
and say: I am one of the appellants named in the above
entitled cause; that said appeal was taken without my knowledge and consent, and that I gave no authority to R. A.
"STATE

OF MIoHIGAN,

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.

596

Statement of Facts.
Parker, Esq., of Detroit, Michigan, to enter my appearance
in this cause in this court, but that I have authorized and
directed Mr. Edward J. Hill, of Chicago, Illinois, one of the
attorneys of this court, to appear for me and move to dismiss
this appeal.
"JAs
ScoT.
"Subscribed and sworn to before me, this 10th 'day of February, A.D. 1887.

[SEA.]

FAx W. DuNminG,
"Not

Pubuc."

"I hereby enter my appearance in the above entitled cause,
pursuant to the above authority, and direction as the attorney
for James Scott, for the purpose only of making a motion to
dismiss this appeal because the cause of action or grounds of
relief have been taken away by the decree of the Circuit Court
of Calhoun County, Michigan, as shown in and by the documents, copies of which arA to be found in the annexed transcript of record.
"Dated February 28, A.D. 1881.
EDWARD" J. HILL."
The documents referred to in the entry of appearance contain the transcript of the record in a suit in chancery between
the same parties with reference to alleged infringements of the
same letters-patent, decided in the Supreme Court of Michigan after this appeal was taken, in' which suit a perpetual
injunction was granted as prayed for; and also a copy of a
writ of error in the same cause to this court, sued out on the
petition of Marsh and Le Fever only, in the petition for which
the following grounds were set out:
"1.. That it appears therein that the exclusive jurisdiction
of the Supreme Court of the United States, on the appeal by
these defendants over the same question, and the same parties
was drawn in question, and was denied.
"2. That full faith and credit, at the request of these
defendants was not given to - the proceedings, record and
appeal appearing in the Circuit C6urt of the United States for

MARSH v. SHEPARD.
Opinion of the Court.

the Eastern District of Michigan, concerning the same issues
and between the same parties.
"3. That the right and authority under the Constitution
and laws of the United States of the said defendants to prosecute their said appeal from the said Circuit Court of the
United States was drawn in question and denied.
"4. That the right and authority under the Constitution and
laws of the United States, authorizing the issue of letters-patent
to inventors, and especially the right and authority exercised
by said defendants under letters-patent No. 236,052 issued in
pursuance of said laws, was drawn in question and denied."
The motion to dismiss was opposed by Marsh and Le Fever,
the other appellants.
XrA. Edward J.Hill for the motion.
.Xr. R2. A. Parker and Mr. Don M. Diekinson opposing.
MR. CmEF JusncE W~Ar

delivered the opinion of the court.

This motion is denied. The sole ground of the application
is, that since the appeal the Supreme Court of Michigan has,
in a suit between the same parties, enjoined these appellants
from making any claim against the appellee for the use of the
patented invention which is the subject matter of the suit, and
has required them to release all the claims and demands which
they have been prosecuting.
Marsh and Le Fever oppose this motion, and Scott has no
right to dismiss for them.

.Aotion d~niei.

