GONZALES v. 'ROSS.
Syllabus.

of which by means of taxation provision had been made as
specially required by that constitution. The precise point
there determined was that the three mills tax provided by the
charter for the payment of the bonded debt, and the one mill
tax for the "Librar3; Fund," under the act of 1874, were parts
of the one per cent. allowed by the charter, and not additions
to it. Here, however, the tax is in accordance with the special provision made to pay a new debt lawfully incurred, and
to meet the requirements of the constitution in its regulation
of the conduct'of municipal corporations in such matters.
This is a tax which the corporation, under the operation of the
constitution, contracted with the bondholders to levy and collect to meet its liabilities on the bonds, and it is not necessarily limited to the three, mills or the one per cent. of the
charter.
Neither does the claim of the city find support in the case
of East St. Iouis v. Zebley, 110 U. S. 321. There the question
was whether the court could compel the city to set apart any
more than three out of the ten-mills charter tax to pay the
bonded debt, and we held that it could not. No point was
made as to the power of the city tolevy more than a ten-mills
tax, and it did not appear that the debt then in question was
incurred after the constitution of 1870.
Judgment alfflrmed.

GONZALES v. ROSS.
ERROR 'iO THE

MIRCIIT C.OURT OF THE UITED STATES

FOR THE

WESTERN DISTiRIcT O.,TEXA.
Submitted November 2, 186.-Decided

March 14, 1887.

The Congress of Coahuila and Texas on the 28th Aprll, 1832, passed a law
respecting the grant of public lands. One Gonzales applied for a grant
under this law, and, on the 16th October, 1832, the governor made the
grant of the land in dispute under which the plaintiffs claim in the custonmary form for such grants. A commissioner was appointed to give
possessory title to the tract, and on the 18th April, 1834, lie delivered to
the grantee at Dolores formal possession of the tract,.and executed and

606

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Syllabus.

delivered a formal "testimonio" thereof. On the 26th March, 1834, the
Congress of Coahuila and Texas at Monclova repealed the act of April
28, 1832. The laws of the Mexican states did not then take effect in
any part of the country until promulgated there. There was no evidence
of the promulgation of the repealing act at Dolores, but there was presumptive evidence tending to show that on the 3d May, 1834, it had not
been promulgated there. Held: that under all the circumstances, and in
view of the distances of Dolores from Monclova, the presumption was
that the repealing act had not been promulgated when the commissioner
extended the title to Gonzales.
rhe act of the Congress of Coahuila and Texas of March 26, 1834, creating
a new system of disposing of the public lands, did not abrogate the grants
and sales which had been made under the act of April 28, 1832. nor abolisLh the office and function of commissioners necessary for extending such
grants.
From the notorious public history of the colony of Beales and Grant, and
from other notorious facts which are stated in the opinion of tIe court,
it is Held, that the governor in the gran ;to Gonzales, which is the subject matter of this suit, intended to designate and did designate tme coinmissioner of the neighboring enterprise as the officer to locate the grant
and deliver possession to time grantee, and that his official acts therein,
having been accepted and acquiesced in by the overmnent, munst be considered as valid, even if done by him only as commissioner de facto.
The public officer who extended the lands in dispute must be presumed to
have extended them in tme proper department, and this presumptive conclusion of law is made cersain in fact by examining the laws referred to
in the opinion of the court.
In 1834 the state of Coahuila and the department of Monclova extelded
eastwardly at least as far as tme river Nueces.
As all favorable presumptions will be made against the forfeiture of a
grant, and as it will be presumed, unless the contrary be shown, that a
public officer acted in accordance with law and his instructions, and as tme
government acquiesed in the commissioner's acts in extending the grant
in dispute and no attempt had been made to revoke them or to assert a
forfeiture; Held, that lie had authority to extend tme title, and his acts
must be considered valid.
The testimonio in this case sufficiently connects itself Nith the original
grant and subsequent steps taken under it: it is not necessary that it
should be attached to it by a physical connection.
The grant in this case gave power and authority to the commissioner to
extend it, and no further order was necessary.
The extension of the title of the grantee by the commissioner in a Mexicau
grant completed the title, without patent or other act of the government,
and notwithstanding the imposition of conditions subsequent; and the

on-performance of such conditions subsequent constituted no objection
to the admission of.plaintiff's evidence to show such extension.
If a forfeiture of a Mexican land grant from non-payment or condition sub-

GONZALES

v. ROSS.

Opinion of the Court.
sequent can be availed of by a private person at all, it can only be after lie
has shown some right to the laud in himself by virtue of a subsequent
purchase or grant from the sovereignty of the soil.
Prior to the adoption of the constitution of 1876 the laws of Texas did not
require that a title under a Mexican grant should be registered in the
county or deposited among the archives of the land office, in order to
give it vitality; and it was only void as against third persons acquiring
title from the sovereignty of the soil, not having notice of ii.
Defences against Spanish and Mexicau titles in Texas under Art. XIII of
the constitution of Texas of 1876 constitute no objection to the admission of evidence in support of such titles. Quwre, as to the effect of the
provisions in tliat article prohibiting the future registration of titles, or
the depositing of them in the land office.

TREsPAss. Plea, not guilty. Judgment for defendants.
Plaintiffs sued out this writ of error. The case is stated. in
the opinion of the court.
.fr.

H.

. Barnardfor plaintiffs in error.

Jir. C. if. Ogden and Xr. Bethel Coopwood for defendants
in error.
Mn. JusTie BitRDLy delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action of trespass to try title, brought 'by the
heirs of Juan Gonzales against The International and Great
Northern Railroad Company and their tenant in possession
(Ross), to recover eleven leagues of land situate in Kinney
County, Texas, adjoining the Rio Grande. The defendants
pleaded not guilty, and title from the sovereignty of the soil.
At the trial a jury was waived, and the court found the -acts
specially (which are set out in a bill of exceptions), and rendered judgment for the defendants. The judgment is based
upon the failure of the plaintiffs to make out their title; and
their failure to make title arose from the court's overruling
and rejecting the testimony offered by the plaintiffs as evidence
of the extension of title to their ancestor, Juan, Gonzales.
The court found and decided that the plaintiff had shown an
application for, and concession of, eleven leagues of land in
the name of Juan Gonzales, in the state of Coahuila and Texas,

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

and gave the purport of the documents showng the same,
being an exemplification of the original in the archives of the
government of Coahuila, at Saltillo. These documents were
in Spanish, accompanied by a verified translation. They were
exemplified under date of August 20, 1874, and had been
duly recorded in the clerk's office in the records of Kinney
Cofinty on the 8th of February, 1878, as appeared by the
clerk's certificate thereon.
The application of Gonzales, as translated, was as- follows,
to wit:
"To his Excellency: The citizen Juan Gonzales, before your
Excellency, with greatest respect, states:
"That in accordance with the provisions of the law of colonization of the state your Excellency will please grant me the
sale of eleven sitios of land of those vacant lands of the department of Monclova and places by me designated, promising
to introduce in them the number of stock required by the same
law and paying the value, delivering at once the fourth part
of the same and binding myself to fulfil all requirements of
the same law. Praying your Excellency will grant this petition as requested, will receive grace and justice.
" JgAx GoNzALEs."

The grant, bearing date, Leona Vicario, October 16, 1832,
was attached to the application, and was in the name of the
Governor in the usual form, and, as translated, was as follows:
"In accordance to article 13 of the new law df colonization
enacted by the honorable Congress of the state April 28, 1832,
I grant the sale to petitioner of the eleven sitios of land prayed
for at the place'designated by him, provided that they shall
be all in one tract and not under any title belonging to any
corporation or person whatsoever.
"The commissioner for the division of lands in the enterprise to -which corresponds the one which petitioner solicits,
and in his default, or in case there is none, or not being engaged in any other enterprise, the alcalde 1st, or the only one
acting of the respective municipality or the nearest one, complying with [the] order given in the matter, will place him in

-GONZALES v. ROSS.
Opinion. of the Court.

possession of the said sitios, and will extend the corresponding
title to the same, first classifying the quality of said lands, so
as to be able to state the amount to be -paid the state, which
payment must first be paid by the interested party in the
manner and terms specified in the last part of said article 13,
making the payment at once as provided by this article, in
the treasury of the state, receipt of which he will present to
the secretary, sp that the secretary, upon sight of it, will proceed to give [the] interested party copy of his petition, with
which he will go to the commissioner and have its requirements
complied with.
Ec Y MusQoZ. (One rubric.)
(One rubric.)"
"SA=Aeo DEL VALLE, Sfreta.
The. court next found as follows:
"Second. That Fortunato Soto was duly appointed by the
proper authority of the state of Coahuila and Texas, as comissioner to.extend titles in the colony contracted for by Juan
C,rlos Beales and Diego Grant. That his commission of
othority was dated iMarch 13th, 1834, and was signed by
Francisco Vidan y Vallastb or, the then governor of the
state of Coahuila and Texas and by J. MKijuel Falcon, the then
secretary of state of Coahuila and Texas.
"Third. The plaintiffs are the legal heirs of Juan Gonzales,
the beneficiary and grantee of the concession referred to in
decision number one, above set forth.
"Fourth. That defendants are in possession of the land described in plaintiff's petition.
"Fifth. That the boundaries of the colony contracted for
by Juan Carlos Beales and Diego Grant are shown by the
following

.

.

.

contract of colonization entered into witli

the citizen Diego Grant and Don Juan Carlos Beales as empresarios to introduce 800 families in the vacant lands of the
state."
The contract referred to, between the government of Coahuila and Texas and Juan Carlos Beales and Diego Grant, is
then set out in full, the application bearing date October 5,
1832, and the concession October 9, 1832. It included, first,
VOL. CXX-39 '

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Coutt.
3,grant

for the whole territory lying between' the Rio Grande

and Kueces rivers, and bounded south bV the state of Tamaulipas, and north by the 29th parallel of latitude; secondly, a
grant of a tract formerly granted to Woodbury and Vehlein,
and subject to their right to colonize 200 families, embracing
a territory over 200 miles in length, bounded north by the
32d parallel of latitude, south by the old road leading from
Rio Grande to Bexar, west by the 100th degree of west longitude, and east by other grants in the interior of Texas. The
first'tract adjoins the southwest corner of the second; and
Kinney County, in which the lands in question are situated,
lies in the angle between the two tracts, but outside of both.
The 9th article of the concession to Beales and Grant has
the following provision: "This colony shall be regulated and
their lands divided by a commissioner of'the government, who
in proper time will be appointed, anid will discharge his duties
in accordance with the laws and instructions that for said officials have been approved by the honorable Congress."
The bill of exceptions then exhibits two maps given in evidence by the plaintiffs, certified by the Secretary of State*of
the United States, one being a copy taken from Disturnell's
map of the united Mexican states, published in 1847, and deposited with the treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo, 1848; the
other showing. the boundary line between the United States
and Mexico, as laid down in Melish's map, published in 1818,
and agreed to in the treaty of Januay 12, 1828. These
maps show that the province of Texas did not then embrace
any territory west of the river Nueces.
In view of this evidence and the findings of the court thereon,
the plaintiffs then offered in evidence a paper purporting to
be a testimonio, with formal and sufficient proof of its execution, by which testimonio it appeared that in April, 1834, the
possessory title of the land in controversy was extended to
Juan Gonzales, the ancestor of the plaintiffs, by Fortunato

Soto, commissioner for the state in the colony of Rio Grande.
This paper was in the Spanish language, and together with
the authentications and translation thereof, had been recorded

inthe clerk's office of Kinney County on the 21st of June,

GONZALES v: ROSS.
Opinion of the Court.

1878, as appears by the clerk's certificate thereon. The following is a copy of the said document as translated, to wit:
"In the village bf Dolores, state of Coahuila, Texas, on the
18th day of the month of April, 1834, I, the citizen Fortunato
Soto, as commissioner for the supr. government of the state
in the colony qf the Rio Grande, and in compliance with the
contract celebrated (entered into) between said government
and the citizen Juan Gonzales, and in accordance with the
requirements and stipulations which the law provides in this
of the governmatter, I extend the present title, in the name
ment and in accordance with the provision in its superior
decree of the 16th of October, 1832, contained in the aforesaid
contract, to the citizen Juan Carlo Beales, as attorney of the
said citizen Juan Gonzales, which power of attorney he presented, of the eleven sitios of land to which said contract has
reference, which said lands in their actial state I have classed
as pasture lands, and which said boundaries are: Commencing
from the place where the boundary line of the property of
Dofia Dolores Soto de Beales forms an angle between south
and west, a line will be drawn to the south, prolonging in the
same direction, which will there terminate the said section at
a distance of thirteen thousand seven hundred and fifty varas;
-from. whence another line will be drawn in a right angle.
which, crossing the arroyo (creek) of Piedra Pinta, will have
the length of twenty thousand varas; and from this point
another line will be drawn towards the north parallel with the
first, and of the same length, and ends with another line to
the east that, crossing the same arroyo (creek), will extend
up to the place of beginning; so that in all form and right he,
the said citizen Juan Gonzales, may at all times prove his
rights to the said eleien sitios of land, I went with his attorney, citizen Juan Carlos Beales, which, after being surveyed
by the surveyor, C. Guillo Egerton, I put him in possession,
and taking him by the right hand, and in the name of the supreme government of the state, walked him over the said
eleven sitios of land and caused him to perform all the other
ceremonies, as provided by the laws in this case of rbal possession, being witnesses the citizens Eduardo Little, Enrique

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

Brown and George Colwell, beside those of my assistance, all
residents of the village, who for the validity of it signed with
me, and the interested party said day, month and year, pledging himself to replace the proper paper with the seal that is
required, not having at present any of the seal in this village
nor its surroundings.
"FoRTuNATo

SOTO.

"THos. H. F. O'S. ADDIOKS, Do Assistenci.

"To:NT

PLuINKETT, De Assistencia.

"JuAw CRLos BEATES.
" EIQUE BROWN.
" EDUARDO LITTLE.
" GEORGE COLWELL."

", the citizen, Fortunato Soto, commissioner for the Supreme
Government of the state of Coahuila and Texas in this colony,
certify that the preceding testimonio is a literal copy legally
t'ken from its original, which is of record in the proper book
of these archives, and in compliance with article 8 of the instructions of the 25th of April, 1880, I give the present to the
interested party as title, which is given on common paper, not
having any of the proper seal, and for the validity of the same
I signed it with the assisting witnesses in said village the 18th
of April, 1834.
" FOITUNATO SOTO.

"'THos. H. F. O'S. ADDIxg, De Assisten .
"Tnos. S r. PLUN0CxETT, De Assistenicia."
To the introduction of this paper the defendants objected
for the following reason:
1st. It has not been proved and recorded according to law,
and its registration was not authorized by law when it pretends to, have been recorded. No protocol or matrix of it
has been shown ever to have been filed in the archives of the
General Land Office, and no such is or ever was an archive of
such office; no possession of the land. claimed by any one
holding under it has been shown; no paymoe t of taxes thereon
by plaintiffs, or any one for them, has been shown, no com-

GONZALES v. ROSS.
Opinion of the Court.

pliance with or fulfilment of the conditions of the law under
which it purports to have been issued has been or attempted
to be proved; and if it ever had any validity, it appears from
the face thereof that it is such a claim as was never perfected,
but wholly abandoned, and the land remitted to the public
domain, and that it is a stale demand and void.
2d. It does not contain and is not based upon any executive grant, concession, or primitive title, nor does it contain
any petition or application of the pretended grantee for a concession or for a survey of the land or the execution of final
title of possession, nor any order referring it to the empresario
order of survey, surveyor's field notes, or other constituent element of an expediente of final title, nor apt words to express
a grant of land from the state by way of sale as required by
law at its date; but .it purports to be a kind of grant unknown
to *andnot authorized by such law, and it appears therefrom
that the same issued without authority of and against law.
3d. It purports to have been issued by one unknown to the
law, claiming to exercise the powers and perform the functions of an office not then existing, but the existence, powers,
and jurisdiction whereof had already been repealed, styling.
himself commissioner of a colony not shown to have existed,
and which, it is well known, never did dxist; and it is claimed
to be title embracing and relating to land situated in -Kinney
County, as averred in the petition, which is well known to
have been embraced within the Woodbury colony district at
the date it bears, for which colony the person purporting to
have issued it was not, and does not by the terms of the instrument pretend to have been, a commissioner or officer.
4th. It appears therefrom that its matrLx or protocol, if it is
in fact a testimonio of such, contained no executive concession
or petition for such; no petition or application for a survey
of the land, nor for the execution of final title; no reference
to the empresario order of survey nor surveyor's field notes,
and no one of the requisite antecedent steps, papers, documents, or acts entering into and forming the expediente of a
valid final title or grant undbr the law in force when and
where it purports to have been issued; none of which can be
established by paroL

OCTOBER TERMI, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

5th. It does not express any consideration paid, or to be
paid, or conditions to be performed or required by law.
6th. It purports to have been executed pursuant to a contract stated to have been ratified with the executive, while
the only one so to be ratified was that of an empresario.
7th. It pretends to be an absolute grant in fee, which was
not authorized or contemplated by the law.
8th. If the contract it refers to was an executive concession
by way of sale, this instrument shows it to have beon forfeited
under the law, and constituting no authority for the execution
of this paper on the 18th of April, 1834.
9th. It has vices before the law, and is defective in manner
and form, using bad grammar, awkward construction, and a
form and style diverse from the usual general practice, and
contains unaccustomed clauses without any reason therefor.
10th. It is not written upon sealed or stamped paper, as
required by law, nor upon paper validated by the proper
officers of the municipality or any other; and its execution has
not been proved, and no attempt has been made to show that
the persons,, purporting to have signed it did so when and
where it bears date or in the capacity therein stated..
11th. It was never registered' as required by law, under the
former government of Coahuila and Texas, nor under the
republic or state of Texas; it was never presented nor any
payment on it made to the collector of the former government,
nor to any officer of the republic or state of Texas; it was
never presented to either of the commissions established by
law to investigate titles to land in the section of the state
where the demanded premises are situate, nor was it ever
brought forward or set up as a claim to land till more than
forty years after its date, and now only with the greatest wfant
of verisimilitude in the matters it-contains and expresses.
12th. It attempts to conceal the fact that the land, if it
relates to the demanded premises, was, at its date, eihbraced
within a colony for which the one purporting to have executed
it did not by its terms pretend to be a commissioner or. officer,
and falsely claims to have been issued in and by the commissioner of a colony which never existed.

GONZATES v. ROSS.

615

Opinion of thQ Court.

13th. It has no receipt for any instalment of the purchase
money written out at the bottom of it, as required by law,
nor has any attempt'been fnade to prove such payment.
14th. It is incompetent and irrelevant, and shows upon its
face that it is not a subject of judicial cognizance, and it does
not describe or identify the demanded premises, but is void
for want of certainty.
15th. It is prohibited from being used in evidence by the
thirteenth article of the constitution of Texas, and if it ever
had any validity, it is stale and forfeited, and the land to
which it relates was reunited to the public domain by legislative equivalent for reunion by office found.
The bill of exceptions states that the court sustained the
said objections, and refused to admit the said document iii
evidence, mainly on the ground that the same was issued without authority -of law, the law and in8tructions under which,
the commissioner pretended to act having been repealed prior
to the execution thereof; to which ruling rejecting said docamznt plaintiffs, by counsel, excepted.
The court thereupon rendered judgment for the defendants.
We -will first consider the main reason assigned by the court
below for, rejecting the evidence" offered, namely, that the law
and instructions under which the commissioner pretended to
act had been repealed prior to the execution thereof. The law
under which the grant was made to Tuan Gonzales, and tinder
which the commissioner acted in extending the title, was that
passed by the Congress of Coahuila and Texas, April 28, 1832.
This law, it is true, was repealed and supplied by an act of
the Congress passed at the city of Monclova, M:arch 26, 1834,
and the testimoio offered in evidence is dated at the village
of Dolores, April 18, 1831, some tbxee weeks afterwards. IBut
the laws of the Mexican states did not take effect in any part
of the country until they were promulgated there; and as
Dolores was situated in the present county of Kinney, about
2NO miles from Monclova, and probably much more than that
as the roads there ran, and as the means of communication in
that region at that time were difficult and dilatory, it is iot
probable that the, act of March 26 was promulgated at Do-

OCTOBER TERM, 1S86.
Opinion of the Court.

lores prior to the 18th of April Besides, the commissioner
was a public officer, having a public duty to perform, and in
the absence of evidence to the contrary, the presumption would
be, that he acted in accordance with the law as known at the
time. This presumption is strengthened by the language of
another act passed in the same session of the Congress, on the
3d day of ]lay, 1834, which declared that certain favorable
terms as to the price of lands, proffered by a law of 1830,
should "be uiderstood only in respect to the price of lands
acquired until (]hasta) the publication of the decree of 26th of
March of this year," implying, it would seem, that the law of
the 26th of March had not yet been published. Looking at
the matter in every point of view, we think the presumption
is, that this act, which was the repealing act referred to, had
not been promulgated at Dolores, or in that vicinity, when the
commissioner extended the title of possession to Gonzales.
In the case of 11ouston v. Piobertson, 2 Texas, 1, 28, Chief
Justice Hemphill, delivering the opinion of the court, said;
"The qaestioia arises, then, as to the time at which the con-tract with Robertson ceased to exist. The annulling decree
was enacted in May, 1835, and by its terms no date was fixed
for its operative force and effect. The date of the plublication
of the law not being proven, the period of taking effect is a
matter of presumption.

.

.

.

Under the former govern-

ments it was an undoubted principle that laws were of no
binding obligation until after they were -duly promulgated.
(L. 1, Tit. 2, Book 3, IRecop. Kovisima.) The form. of publishing decrees by the executive, is prescribed in Decree No. 3 of
the constituent Congress of the state of Coahuila and .Texas,
p. 6. These decrees were transmitted to the inferior authorities, and by them published in their respective jurisdictions.
There was no specified period for the promulgation of
the laws, nor for their going into operation, in proportion to
the distance from the seat of government. The presumption
would generally be in favor of the publication after the lapso
of a reasonable time for its transmission from the capital; but
from the peculiar circumstances of this case, we do not think
that the decree ought to be enforced against the petitioner

. " GONZALES v. ROSS.
Opinion of the Court.

until the period of closing the land office." In that case the
decree- or act referred to was passed 18th May 1835, and the
land offices were not closed until the 1st of November -more
than five months afterwards. It is true, the country was in
an unsettled state at that time; and this may have been one
reason why the court-held that there was no presumption that
the law had been pronulgated. The principle enunciated,
however, is applicable to the present case, and leaves little
room for hesitation as to 'the non-promulgation of the law
under consideration at Dolores within three weeks or thereabouts after its passage.
Besides this, although the act of 26th March, 1834, created
a new system-of disposing of the public lands,' and repealed
the act of 1832, it did not abrogate the grants and sales
which had been made under it; nor did it abolish the office
and functions of. commissioners, necessaiy for extending such
grants.
But another objection raised to the authority of the commissioner was, that he was only constituted such for the colony
of Beales and Grant. This is true. But the grant for that
colony comprised a. territory of 20,000 square miles, and
embraced in its southwest angle (though it did not include) the
present county of Kinney; and we know from cotemporary
history that a large addition was made to it on the west,
including portions of Kinney County, by means of large grants
made 'to individuals and translerred to the Rio Grande and
Texas Land Company, which became the proprietors of the
entire colony. Indeed, this very grant of Gonzales was published as one of their accessions. The fact that Juan Carlos
Beales himself was the attorney who received the possession
of the Gonzales tract is corroborative of this fact. But, be
this as it may, it was a matter of public notoriety that Beales
and Grant, or the association which they formed, made large
additions to their original grant in the country lying immediately west of the Woodbury and Yehlein tract, 'so that it
must have nearly encompassed the premises in question. In
Yoal um's History of Texas, vol. 1, page 317, we find the
following notice of the cdlony: "During. the latter part of

OCTOBER TERMI,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

the year 1833 began the settlement of the colony of Beales
and Grant. They had 6btained a concession for 800 families,
to be located between the Rio Grande and the Nueces. In
the last days of December, about sixty colonists, under Mr.
Beales, reached the new settlement, and laid off the town of
Dolores, on Las Moras,a small stream about ten feet wide and
two feet deep. They remained there about a year, when they
dispersed." The affidavits annexed to the original testimonio
offered in evidence, state that the town was destroyed by fire
in 1836. Now Dolores was situated in the southern paxt of
the present county of Kinney, several milas west of the Woodbury and Yehlein grant, and north of the first tract described
in the concession to Beales and Grant, thus showing that the
colony was extended beyond the limits of those grants prior
to 1834.. In the certificate of the United States Consul at
Alatamoras, dated October 16, 1835, and annexed to the
original testimonio, it is called the colony of Dolores. In
cotemporaxy documents it was sometimes called the colony
of Rio Grande, and sometimes the Beales " River grant." It
it is called the Rio Grande grant in Beales's Diary, inserted
in Kennedy's History of Texas, vol. 2, page 47. It will be
observed that the grant to Gonzales was made directly after
that to Beale s and Grant, the latter being dated the 9th and
the former the 16th of October, 1832. It is also evident that
Gonzales indicated to the governor the region in which he
intended to locate his grant, namely, in the immediate neighborhood of the territory ceded to Beales and Grant. ]His
application says: "Your excellency will please grant me the
sale of eleven sitios of land. of those vacant lands of the
department of Monclova, and places by ne designated." The
words of the grant are: "I grant the sale to the petitioner of
the eleven sitios of land prayed for at the ylace dmesignated
by him, provided that they shall be all in one tract and not
under any title belonging to any corporation or person whatsoever." So that it was undoubtedly understood where, in
general terms, the land was to be located. The grant then
proceeds to designate the commissioner who should locate the
land and extend the title, as follows: "The commissioner for

GONZALE S V. ROSS.
Opinion of the Court.

the division of lands in the enterprise to which corresponds
the one which petitioner solicits, and in his default, or in case
there is none, or not being engaged in any other -enterprise,.
the alcalde 1st, [that is, the first alcalde,] or the only one
acting, of the respective municipality." Now, what comnissioner was meant, or could be meant, but the commissioner of
the Beales and Grant colony ?- probably the only colony
within a hundred miles. •It is not said, "the commissioner for
the enterprise in wich the lands lie," but ".the commissioner
for the enterprise to which correyonds the one which petitioner
solicits." From all the circumstances taken together, it is
obvious to us that the commissioner of the Bealds and Grant
colony was the very one intended. We have only the translation of the grant before us, which is somewhat awkwardly
expressed; but, according to that (which .is our only guide),
we think it was not the commissioner of the enterprise in
which the lands were to be located, (for, as understood by the
parties, they were not to be located in any existing enterprise,)
but the commissioner of the neighboring enterprse, that was
intended to be designated. There was no other 'enterprise in
that region, at least so far as we know.
'A strong circumstance in favor of this conclusion is the fact
that Soto's official acts as commissioner, in this case, were
never repudiated by the government; on the contrary, his
protocol was received and deposited in the public archives,
where it still remains. His official acts, accepted and acquiesced in by the government, must be considered as valid,
even if done by him only as a commissioner defacto.
The pretence that Soto designates himself in the testimonio
as commissioner in the colony of Rio Grande, and that no such
colony is known to have existed, is too frivolous to deserve
serious attention. It is well known, as already stated, that
the colony was designated by various names, "'Rio Grande,"
amongst the rest, and Soto was well and publicly known as
the commissioner thereof. It was the first great colony
attempted to be established in Coahuila and Texas on the Rio
Grande, and nothing was more 'natural than to call it by that
name. 'Besides, it was situated in the old district of Rio

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

Grande, which was afterwards annexed to the department of
M onclova, as hereafter stated.
The criticism of the defendants in error,' that it was not
shown that the lands in question were in the department of
M onclova, is not well fouvided.. In the first place, it will be
presumed that they were situated in that department if nothing
is shown to the contrary. The public official who extended
the lands must be presumed to have extended them in the
proper department. But there cannot be any doubt that they.
were situated in the department of Monclova. Prior to the
constitution of March 11, 1827, the state of Coahuila and
Texas was divided into five districts or departments: Saltillo,
Parras, M[onclova, Texas, and Rio Grande: Article.7 of Laws
and Decrees of Coahuila and Texas, Houston, 1839, page 4rl;
but by that instrument (Art. 7), it was declared that "for the
better administration thereof, the territory of the state shall
for the present be divided intor three departments; as follows;
viz. Bexr, embracing all the territory corresponding to what
was' cailed province of Texas, which shall form one sole district; Afonclova, consisting of the district of the same name"
and that of -Rio Grande; Sa&tillo, comprehending the district
of the same name and that of Parras, Ib.page 314. Power
was given to the Congress to alter and modify this division.
We find only the following laws of the Congress on the
subject: First, a law passed January .31, 1831, setting off a
new district from the eastern part of Bexar, to be called the
district of Nacogdoches, Ib.page 171. , Secondly, a law passed
in April, 1833, declaring that the district of Saltillo should
constitute a sole department by itself; and that the district of
Parras should constitute another separate department, Ib.
page 210.' Thirdly, a law passed 18th March, 1834, dividing
the state into seven departments or districts, to wit: Bexar,
Brazos, Guerrero, Monclova, Nacogdoches, Parras, and Saltillo.
Article- 2 declared that in the section denominated Coahuila
the limits and capital towns of each shall be the same as heretofore. Article 3 created Brazos from the eastern part of
Bexar. By Article 4 the limits of the department of Nacogdoches were continued as before. The boundaries of Guerrero

GONZALES v. ROSS;
Opinion of the Court.

are not given, Ib.page 245. This shows that no alteration
was made in the limits of the departments in Coahuila.
Saltillo and Parras were in the southern part of Coahuila, and
Monclova comprised the nortliern part, and joined the department of Bexar, which (as shown above) corresponded with the
old province of Texas. This makes it certain that the department of Monclova included the lands in question; for the old
boundary between Coahuila and Texas was situated over 100
miles east of the Rio Grande; and the northern boundary of
Tamaulipas, which joined Coahuila on the southeast, and also
separated the province of Texas from the Rio Grande, was
some 70 or 80 miles southeast- of the county of Kinney.
Captain Pike, who traversed the country from Chihuahua to
Texas in 1807, passing through Coahuila and the centre of the
first tract" described in Beales and Grant's purchase, and who
was very minute and particular in-his observations, locates the
exact boundary between Coahuila and Texas at that time.
After describing his passage of the Rio Grande near Presidio,
and four days' travel from thence northeastwardly, a distance,
in all, of 136 miles, he gives the following account of his fifth
day's journey: "7th June, Sunday.- Came on 15 miles to
the river Mariano [now _Vedina], the line bdween Texe ind
Cogqulla [Coahuila] - a pretty little stream, Rancho. From
thence in the afternoon to Saint Antonio." Pike's Expedition,
page 265. Other authorities also.state that the Medina was the
old boundary between Coahuila and Texas. At a later date,
perhaps in virtue of some law not published in the general
collection of laws, Texas seems to have been extended to the
river Nueces. it is so laid down on several maps, (see map
in Ward's "Mexico in 1827," and others of that period,) and
Hon. David G. Burnet, a resident of Texas long before its
independence, and afterwards first President of the Republic,
in a letter written in November, 1830, and published at the
time, after stating that Texas in its most extensive acceptation
was bounded by the Rio Grande, says: "This definition, however, is not in strict accordance with the political organization
of the country, as the state of Tamaulipas and the department
of Coahuila both cross the Rio Grande, making the Nueces

OCTOBER TERM, 18.86.

Opinion of the Court.
strictly the western limit." (See also speech of Mr. Benton in
the United States Senate, May 16, 1844.) There can be no
doubt, therefore, that in 1834 the state of Coahuila and the
department of Monclova extended eastwardly as far as the
river Kueces, 'at least, and consequently included the premises in question.
Another objection to the authority of the commissioner to
extend the title in controversy was, that the time limited by
the act of 1832 for reducing the grant to possession had expired. The 16th article of the law declares that the purchasers
shall enter into possession of the land acquired within eighteen
months from the ratification of the contract, under penalty of
forfeiture for the non-falfihnent thereof. In this case the concession was dated October 16, 1832, and the testimonio is dated
April 18, 1834, two days more than eighteen moflths afterwards. This objection assumes that possession was given on
the date of the testimonio. But that does not appear. The
latter was executed at Dolores, ten or a dozen miles from the
premises in question. The document had to be prepared after
the parties returned to the village. They may not have returned the same day. All favorable presumptions will be
made against the forfeiture of a grant. As before said, it will
be presumed, unless the contrary be shown, that a public officer acted in accordance with the law*and his instructions.
The government accepted Soto's acts, and it does not appear
that any attempt was ever made to revoke or annul his proceedings, or to assert a forfeiture for the cause now insisted on.
We think that the mere date of the testimonio is not sufficient
under the circumstances to make it invalid. Besides, it will
be observed that the law does not say that the delivery of
possession after the eighteen months shall be void, but only
that it shall be a ground of forfeiture of the grant. And, of
course, the forfeiture, if incurred, might be waived by the govt
ernment, and we think it was waived by accepting and acquiescing in the commissioner's acts.
On the whole we think it clear, that Fortunato Soto had authority to extend the title in question, or, at least, that his
official acts were acquiesced in. by the government, and are to
be considered as valid.

GONZALES v. ROSS.
Opinion of the Court.

But objections were made to the instrument itself ;.namely,
to the testimonlo which was offered in evidence for the purpose of proving and authenticating the commissioner's acts.
One of these objections was, that it does not connect itself
with any grant, concession or primitive title, nor contain any
petition for a concession, or for a survey of the land, or execution of finl title of posses5ion, nor any order referring it to an
empressario's order of survey. It is a sufficient answer to the
first part of this objection to refer to the testimonio itself,
which does in terms refer to the original contract between the
government and Juan Gonzales, giving its date, and purporting
to be executed in accordance with its provisions. We do not
see how it could connect itself any more closely with the original concession, unless it were tied to it by a string, or fastened
to it by a wafer, as is often done. But we do not remember
to have seen it decided that a string or a wafer is a constituent
or necessary part of the title. The objection is wholly without foundation. Gonzales had a,giant which authorized a
commissioner to extend it in possession. The proper commissioner did so extend it, and this was shown by the testimonio
-the proper documentary evidence for that purpose. In the
recent case of Hanrickv. Jackson,55 Texas, 17,2T, the Supreme
Court of Texas says: "We know of no authority for saying
that the title is void because, he, [the officer] has not incorporated into it the evidence of the concession or sale. If there
was, in fact,. no concession, there could have been no legal
grant by the alcalde. But whether there was a concession;
and whether there was proper evidence of it presented to him
by the interested party, was a matter for his official inquiry
and determination. Whether he set forth in the title the evidence upon which he acted, or merely recited as a fact that a
concession had been granted and authority given him by the
government to extend the title, the presumption which is always indulged in favor of the validity of acts of officers of a
former government, warrants the conclusion that the officer
acted in conformity with law and not in violation of it."
As to the remainder of the objection, it- is sufficient to say,
that no petition or order was necessary to have the grant

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

extended in possession. The grant itself, as stated above, gave
power and authority to the proper commissioner to extend it;
and no further order for that purpose was required.
It was also objected that the testimonio was not written
upon properly stamped paper. But this did not affect its
validity. With a proper stamp, it would require no proof of
its execution. Without a proper stamp, its execution must be
proved.

Jones v. .Montes, 15 Texas, 351, 35 ; 2]&mbers v.

_Fik, 22 Texas, 504. The court finds that formal and sufficient
-proof of its execution was offered. We think that the testimonio was sufficient in point of form, and that it contained all
the requisites necessary to invest Gonzales with title in the
land delivered to him; and that the description of the land
was sufficiently specific to identify it.
We are, therefore, of opinion that the court below should
have admitted the testimonio in evidence, unless it was incompetent by reason of some matter or thing occurring after its
execution and delivery to Gonzales.
Analyzing the various and somewhat confused and multifarious objections of the defendants, we find three such matters
assigned as grounds for rejecting the c idence : First, the nonfulfilment of the conditions of the grant; secondly, that no
protocol, or nmatrix of the concession or testimonio, was amongst
the archives of the land office, nor on record in the proper
county in proper time; thirdly, that, not being amongst the
archives, and not being recorded in proper time, and never
being followed by actual possession, the testimonio was an
absolute nullity by force of the XIIIth Article of the Constitution of 18716.
These matters may constitute very good and substantial
grounds of defence, and we are not disposed to intimate anything to the contrary in this opinion. But we think they can
only be effectual by way of defence.
As to the supposed forfeiture for non-fulfilment of conditions
of the grant, the only condition named therein is the payment
of the purchase money. This was required by the 13th article of the law of the 28th of April, 1832, which, on this subject, declares as follows: "The purchaser shall deliver one-

GONZALES v. ROSS;

625 "

Opinion of the Court.

fourth of the value of the land granted to th6 state treasury,
or where the executive designates, at-the time of the sale; and
the remaining three-fourths shall bQ paid, the first on the
second, the second on the third, and the last on the fourth year,
under penalty of forfeiting the right acquired in the part wherein
this provision is not fulfilled;" that is, as we understand it,
the forfeiture was to bein proportion to the amount not paid.
Now, it is clear that the first payment was made in advance ;
for the grantee could not have obtained possession of his document of concession without such payment; and that he did"
obtain it is manifest, for the testimonio shows that it was
exhibited to the commissioner. The other payments were to
be made afterwards, and after the lands were extended, and
the condition of forfeiture for non-payment was a condition
subsequent. Whether these payments were made, or not
made, was not shown by proof at the trial. If not made, then
there was a forfeiture which the government could enforce,
either by judicial proceedings, or, perhaps, by granting the
land to other parties. This forfeiture accrued, at the revolution, to the Republic of Texas, and to the State of Texas,
when it became a state. By the constitution of 'the state,
adopted in 1845, Art. XIII, it was declarea that "all fines,
penalties, forfeitures, and escheats, which have accrued to the
Republic of Texas under the constitution and laws shall accrue
to the State of Texas; and the legislature shall by law provide
a method for determining what lands may have been forfeited
or escheated." No such law was ever passed prior to the trial
of this cause. We held in Airhart v. ra"si~u, 98 U. S. 491,
498, that, under this provision, the legislature must first act;
before any proceedings can be taken to annul the title of an
alien, or any. other escheatable titles; and this proposition
would seem to apply with equal force to forfeitures. At all
events, if a forfeiture for non-payment, oi" other condition
subsequent, can be availed of by a private person, it can only
be after he has shown some right to the land in himself, by
virtue of a subsequent purchase or grant from the sovereignty
of the soil; and, hence, it can only be set up by way of devOL. cxx-40

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

fence after such purchase or grant'is shown, and not as an
objection to the admission of the plaintiff's evidence.
The importance of that evidence to the plaintiff's case is
manifest. The extension of title hy the commissioner, in these
Mexican grants, completed the title without any patent or
other act of the government, and notwithstanding the imposition of conditions subsequent. If the concession imposed conditions precedent, the case would be different. This subject is
discussed in.
the case of Yanrick v. .Ycinney, 7 Tel ts, 384,
451, where the court, after examining some decisions of this
court, says: "The conditions, in the cases cited by counsel,
were conditions precedent; and not until after their performance, as we have seen, was the title to be delivered. Titles
issued to colonistsand purchasers under the colonization laws
of Coahuila and Texas were of an entirely different character.
Under those laws the title of possession was the final title,
vesting the fee absolutely in the grantee. Conditions were
annexed, . . . but they were conditions subsequent, upon
the non-performance of which-the titles were subject to forfeiture, but until which the fee or proprietorship was in the
grantee. They conveyed all the estate and interest which the
government had to convey, as absolutely and to the same
extent as did the delivery of the final title, or the final act of
confirmation by the Spanish government, after the performance of the conditions. No act of confirmation by the government was required or was contemplated by the colonization
laws; but when the title of possession issued, the government
had done the final act on her part." The testimonio in that
case was substantially the same as in the present, and was sustained as conferring title upon the party.
As to the matter of registration, the laws of Texas prior to
the adoption of the constitution of 1876, so far as we can discover, did not require that a title should be registered in the
county, or deposited amongst the archives of the land office,
in order to give it validity. It was only void as against third
persons acquiring title from the sovereignty of the soil not
having notice of it. In this respect the laws of Texas were
not dissimilar to those of most of the states of the Union.

GONZALES v. ROSS.Opinion of the Court.

Indeed, the original titles could not be deposited in the ][and
office when, as was often the case, they belonged to the
archives of "he foreign government at Saltillo, or other place
where they were originally deposited. Copies of them,
amounting to second originals, or testimonios of the final title,
might be so deposited, or might be registered in the proper
county; but even that was not necessary to their validity,
although it might be necessary to protect the owners against
titles subsequently acquired without notice of their existence.
It is manifest, however, that titles thus subsequently acquired,
if relied on by a defendant, must be proved as matter of
defence, and cannot be urged against the competency of the
plaintiff's evidence of his title.
This, as we understand it, was the condition of things (except with regard to certain extensive and fraudulent grants,
which were specially abrogated by constitutional or legislati- e
enactment) until the adoption of the constitution of 1876. ]By
the XIIIth Article of that instrument it was decreed as follows:
ARTICLE XIII.- SPrAsNH AND MExicAN LA.ND TITLES.
"SETION 1. All fines, penalties, forfeitures, and escheats,
which have heretofore accrued to the Republic and State of
Texas, under their constitutions and laws, shall accrue to the
state under this constitution; and the legislature shall provide
a method for determining what lands have been forfeited, and
for giving effect to escheats; and all such right of forfeiture
and escheat to the state shall, ipsofacto, enure to the protection of the innocent holders of juni6r titles, as provided in
sections 2, 3, and 4 of this article.
"SEC. 2. Any claim of title or right to land in Texas, issued

prior, to the 13th day of November, 1835, not duly recorded
in the county where the land was situated, at the time
of such record; or not duly archived in the General Land
Office, or not in the actual possession of the grantee thereof,
or some person claiming under him, prior to the accruing of
junior title thereto, from the sovereignty of the soil, under circumstances reasonably calculated to give notice to said junior

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

grantee, has never had, and shall not have, standing or effect
against such junior title, or color of title, acquired without
such or actual notice of such prior claim of title or right; and
no condition annexed to such grants, not archived, or recorded,
or occupied as aforesaid, has been, or ever shad be released or
waived, but actual performance of all such conditions shall be
proved by the person or persons claiming under such title or
claim of right in order to maintain action thereon, and the
holder of such junior title, or color of title, shall have all the
rights of the government which have heretofore existed, or now
exist, arising from the non-performance of all such conditions.
"SEC. 3. Non-payment of taxes on any claim of title to land,
dated prior to the 13th day of November, 1835, not recorded,
or archived, as provided in § 2, by the person or persons so
claiming, or those under whom he or they so claim, from that
. date up to the date of the adoption of this constitution, shall
be held to be a presumption that the right thereto has reverted
to the state, and that said claim is a stale demand, which presumption shall only be rebutted by payment of all taxes on said
lands, state, county, and city or town, to be assessed on the fair
value of such lands by the comptroller, and paid to him, without commutation or deduction for any part of the above period.
"SEc. 4. No claim of title or right to land, which issued
prior to the 13tfi day of November, 1835, which has not been
duly recorded in the county where the land was situated at the
time of such record, or Which has not been duly archived in
the General Land Office, shall ever hereafter be deposited in
the General Land Office, or recorded in this state, or delineated on the maps, or used as evidence in any of the courts of
this state, and the same are stale claims; but this shall not
affect such rights br presumptions as arise from actual possession. By the words ' duly recorded,' as used in sections 2 and 4
of this article, it is meant that such claim of title or right to land
shlbl have been recorded in the proper office, and that mere
errors in the certificate of registration, or informality, not
affecting the fairness and good faith of the holder thereof,
with which the record was made, shall not be held to vitiate
such record."

GONZALES v. ROSS.
Opinion of the Court.

We do not see that- these sections alter the character of the
objections as matters of defence. A man whose title was good
in 1876, when the constitution was adopted, whether his
muniments of title were on record or not, could not be deprived of it by a simple ipse dixit of the constitution, any more
than by a legislative act. Some proof, at least, must be given
in a judicial proceeding to show that his title was forfeited, if
that be the fact; and that proof, in a private action, must be
given by a party exhibiting a title acquired from-the sovereignty of the soil or in some other legitimate way. When the
testimonio in the present case was offered in evidence, no such
proof had been given. So far as appeared up to that moment
the defendants were mere trespassers, and surely trespassers
cannot claim the benefit of the constitutional provisions. Besides, it cannot be assumed, as is assumed in the objection of
the defendants, either that the plaintiffs' muniments of title
were not on file amongst the archives of the land office, or
that the taxes on the lands had not been paid, or that Gonzales
and those claiming under him did not continue in possession of
the land after possession was delivered to him by the commissioner in 1834. By the rules of law, possession will be presumed to accompany ownership until the contrary is proved;
and constructive possession consequent upon legal ownership is
sufficient as against mere trespassers, that is, as against those
who do not show some right of possession. So, with regard to
the archive of title, it was held in Byrne v. Fagai, 16 Tex.
391, 398, that where there is a testimonio there is a presumption that the original is among the archives of the land office,
its proper place of deposit. At all events, it is for the defendants to show by proper proof that it was not there. As to the'
want of registration in the county where the lands lie, as before said, no registration was necessary to the validity of a
title prior to the constitution of 1876. It is unnecessary, at
this time, to decide upon the effect of the provision contained
in that constitution prohibiting the future registration of titles,
or the depositing of them in the land office. If its effect is to
make titles void which were before good, a grave constitutional
question may arise, with regard to its validity, which we would

OCTOBER TERMI, 1886.
Syllabus.

prefer not to pass upon until it has received the consideration
of a local court, state or federal. In our judgment, all the
matters of objection to the plaintiffs' title, arising under the
constitution, are matters of defence, and could not properly be
urged to prevent the title of the plaintiffs from being received
in evidence.
rThe judgment of the Circuit Court is reversed, and the case is

remand6d, with directions to award a new trial.

DUSHANE v. BEN EDICT.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

WESTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
Argued December 14, 15, lS8.-Decided March 14, 1887.
In an action to recover less than $5000, in which the defendant-asks for
judgment upon a counterclaim for more than that sum, and the Circuit
Court renders a general judgment for the plaintiff, a writ of error sued
out by the defendant is within the jurisdiction of this court, under the
act of February 15, 1875, c. 77, § 3.
In an action for goods sold and delivered, tried in the Circuit Court of the
United States in Pennsylvania, the defendant, under a plea of "payment
with leave," and by way of recoupment, may prove damages resulting to
him from a breach of warranty; or from a fraudulent representation of
the seller that the goods were of a certain quality or fit -for a certain
purpose.
Under the statute of Pennsylvania of 1705, which allows the defendant, in
an action upon a contract, to set off any matter of contract, and to recover
judgment thereon against the plaintiff, upon proving that the plaintiff
owes him more than he owes the plaintiff, the defendant, in an action for
goods sold and delivered, may set off a claim in the nature of assumpsit
upon a warranty; but not a claim for a fraudulent representation, or other
claim sounding in tort only.
If rags sold as clean and free from infection, and fit to be manufactured
into paper, are proved to have been infected with the small-pox, and to
have caused it to break out in the buyer's paper-mill, whereby some of
the workmen died, others were disabled from working, and the buyer
paid certain sums to support those so disabled, and was obliged to run
his mill short-handed, and lost a considerable pa-t of a profitable trade;
and the seller testifies that he bought the rags in a region where he knew

