OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Syllabus.

For the reasons given in United States v. Symonds, we are
of opinion that the services of appellee were, within the
meaning of § 1556 of the Revised Statutes, performed "at
sea," and, consequently, it was rightly adjudged in the court
below that he was entitled to sea-pay, as established for offi-

cers of his grade, during the period of his service on the
Minnesota.

Jdgment aj wfmed.

UNITED STATES v. PHILBRIOK.
APPEAL FIROM THE COURT OF C.A.hIS.
Submitted December 6, 1886.-Decided January 10, 1887.

Prior to the enactment in the act of February 25, 1871, 16 Stat. 431, now
Rev. Stat. § 12, that "whenever an act is repealed, which repealed a
former act, such former act shall not thereby be revived unless it shall
be expressly so provided," it was the general rule of law that the repeal
of a repealing act restored the law as it was before the passage of the
latter act without formal words for that purpose, uwiess otherwise provided either in the repealing act or by some general statute.
Before the passage of the act of March 3, 1835, forbidding it, 4 Stat. 757,
it was lawful -forthe Secretary of the Navy to make allowances out of
appropriations in gross to officers of the Navy beyond their regular pay,
for quarters, furniture, lights, fuel, &c., and the repeal of that act by the
act of April 17, 1866, 14 Stat. 33, restored the right to 'make such allowances and such as were made by him and were settled at the Treasury
Department, between the date when the latter act went into effect and
the passage of the act of February 25, 1871, 16 Stat. 431, were made in
accordance with Sie executive construction of the statutes respecting the
navy and the Navy Department prior to 1835, and this court will not at
this late day question their validity.
The contemporaneous construction of a statute by the Executive Department charged with its execution is entitled to great weight, and ought
not to be overturned unless clearly erroneous.
It is npt decided (1) whether after settlement of an account at the Treasury
it can be reopened by theaccounting officers on the ground of.error
arising only from mistake of law; nor ,2) whether eerors in accounts
with the United States, stated closed and settled by payment, can be corrected otherwise than by regular judicial proceedings instituted by the°
United States.

UNITED STATES v. PIIILBRIOK.
Opinion of the Court.
THE

case is stated in the opinion of the court.

Ar. Att*o'ney General and -Y. F. P. Dewees for appellant.
.At. John PauZ Jones and X.. Robert B. Lines for appellee.
YR- JUSTICE

IARLAx

delivered the opinion of the court,

The appellee, Philbrick, having served as a carpenter in the
navy from July 8, 1861, to March 14, 1866, and again continuously after November 12, 1869, filed with the Fourth Auditor
of the Treasury his claim for the benefits of the .act of Gongress of March 3, 1883, providing, among other things, that
"all officeis of the navy shall be credited with the actual time
they may have served as officers or enlisted men in the regular,
or volunteer army or navy, or both, and, shall receive all the
benefits of such actual service in all respects in the same manner as if all said service had been continuous, and in the regular navy, in the lowest grade having graduated lIay held by
such officer since last entering the seivic6."

22 Stat. 4F73. The

claim having been passed by the Fourth Auditor, was forwarded to the Second Comptroller of the Treasury, who is the
reviewing officer charged with the examination of all accounts
of this class. The latter officer, while recognizing that the
appellee had a valid claim under the act of 1883, deducted
from the amount which the Fourth Auditor had ascertained
to be due the sum of $214.88. That amount was made up of
two items, $169.50 and $45.38.
In respect to the item of $169.50 -which is the only one,.
disputed on this appeal-the Second Comptroller held that
that sum had, by mistake of law, been improperly allowed
and paid to appellee for commutation of quarters, furniture,
lights, and fuel from November 12, 1869, to July 1, 18 70,
although such payment was in conformity with a general
order, issued by the Secretary of the Navy on the 12th of
May, 1866, in reference to allowances to officers in that branch
of the public service.
It is, however, insisted, on behalf of the United States, that

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.

Opinion of the Court.

that order was unauthorized by law and void; and, consequently, that the ,amount allowed under it to appellee was
properly chargeable against his claim for pay under the act of
1883.
So far as we are aware, the first act of Congress providing
-for special allowances or compensation. to officers, seamen, and
marines beyond their regular pay, was that of April 18, 1814.
The second section of that act authorized the President "to
make an addition, not exceediig twenty-five per cent., to the
pay of the officers, midshipmen, seamen, and marines, engaged
in any service, the hardships or disadvantages of which shall,
in his judgment, render such addition necessary." 3 Stat. 136,
c. 83. That section was, however, repealed by the act of Februnty 22, 18117. 3 Stat. 345, c. 13. The reasons which led to
the withdrawal of this "powerfrom the President are not disclosed in any public document to which our attention has been
called. The practice which prevailed in the Navy Department
for many years after the passage of the act of 181Z, in reference to special allowances to or for the benefit of naval officers beyond their regular pay- of which practice Congress
was fully informed - tends to show that the repeal of the act
of 1814 was not intended as a prohibition of allowances of
every kind. In the Rules, Regulations, and Instructions prepared by the Board of Navy Commissioners, with the consent
of the Secretary of the Navy, and published in 1818,-a copy
of which was transmitted to Congress by President Monroe
on the 20th of April ,of that year, American State Papers,
Class VI, Naval Affairs, p. 510,-will be found provisions for
certain allowances, graduated according to the character of
the vessel or the rank of the officer in charge. In the "1R ules
of the Navy Department regulating the Civil Administration
of the Navy Department," prepared.under the supervision of
Secretary Woodbury, and by him published in 1832 in what
is known as the ":Red Book," are provisions in reference to
allowances for cabin furniture, chamber money, furnitur6 of
officers' houses at yards, fuel, lights, srvants, &c. Chapter 10.
Besides, the naval appropriation acts, for many years before
-and after 1832, contained items in gross for all the objects

UNITED STATES v. PHILBRICIL
Opinion of the Court.

covered by these allowances; but Aione of them contained
directions as to the manner in which the sums appropriated'
should be al3portioned. The absence of such directions was no.
doubt due to the fact, known to Congress, that the amounts
annually appropriated were used or apportioned by the Navy
Department as indicated in the rules.prescribed by the Secretary.
That these allowances were -habitually made, and that Congress was aware of this practice, appears from a report to
President Monroe by the Secretary of the Navy, transmitted
to Congress on the 4th of March, 1822. That report was accompanied by a statement showing the number and grade of
the officers attached to each navy yard or station, with the
amount allowed each for pay, subsistence, emoluments, or
extra compensation. The Secretary in his report says: "The
allowances to officers attached to the navy yards have, I
understand, been made to them since the commencement of
these establishments, and vary in some instances according to'
the expense of living, house rent, &c., in the different places
at which they are located. The pay and rations, authorized
by law to officers, are understood to be for their maintenance
on bdard ship, in which they are accommodated with rooms,
fuel, candles, &c.; but when placed on shore at naval stations
they have not such accommodations.

.

.

.

The allowances

now made are regulated bya table, making them all equal, or
as nearly so as practicable.

.

.

.

The allowances have, in

most instances, been made by the Auditor in the settlement of
accounts. without any reference to this Department, he considering himself authorized so to do by the usage of the service,
from the commencement of the naval establishment, with the
approbation and sanction of the Secretary of the Navy."
American State Papers, Class VI, Naval Affairs, Vol. 1, p.
797. The subject was subsequently brought to the attention
of Congress by the report of the Secretary of the Navy to
the Senate, January 1, 1825, American State Papers, Naval
Affairs, Vol. 2, p. 40; by the letter of the Secretary to the
chairman of the House Committee on Naval Affairs, February
2, 1826, lb., p. 626; by the communication of the Fourth

OCTOBER TEZRM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

Auditor of the Treasury, May 28, 1830, which was transmitted to Congress, Ib., Vol. 3, p. 685, the latter being accompanied -by a table showing every kind of 'allowance made
under the regulations and orders of the Navy Department..
The same facts are disclosed by the report of Amos Kendall,
the Fourth Auditor of the Treasury, February 5, 1835, to the
Secretary of the Navy, and transmitted by the latter- to the
House of Representatives in conformity with a resolution of
that body. The latter report embodies a statement, in detail,
showing the regular pay, rations, and allowances of all commissioned officers of the navy according to the laws and regulations then in force. Ex. Doe. 192, H. R. Navy Department
23d Congress, 2d Session.
Thus matters stood until the passage of the aitc of March
3, 1835, 4 Stat. 753, regulating (and increasing) the.pa:r of the
navy, by which allowances of every description were prohi.bited. The second section of that act provided that "no
allowance shall hereafter be made to any officer in the naval
service of thetUnited States for drawing bills, f6r-recovering or
disbursing-money, or transacting any business for the government of the United States, nor shall he be allowed se' 'nts,
or pay for servants, or clothing or rations for them, or pay for
the same; nor shall any allowance be made to him for rent of
quarters, or to pay rent for furniture, or for lights, or fuels, or
transporting baggage. It is hereby expressly declared that
the yearly allowance provided in this act is all the pay, compensation, and allowance that shall be received under any circumstances whatever by any such officer, or person, elcept for
travelling expenses when under orders, for which ten cents per
mile shall be allowed." 4: Stat. 757.
This prohibition of allowances continued in force until the
act-of April 17, 1866, making appropriations for the iaaval
service. The second section of that act provided "that so
much of the second section of an act entitled 'An act to regulate the pay of the navy of the United States,' appr6ved
March three, 1835, as prohibits any allowance to any officer in
the naval service for rent of quarters, or for furniture, or for
lights, or fuel, or transporting baggage, and all acts or parts

UNITED STATES v. PHILBRICK.
Opinion of the Court.

of acts authorizing the appointment of navy agents, be, and
the same are hereby, repealed." 14 Stat. 33, 38, c. 45.
After the passage of that act Secretary Welles issued the
order which the government now assails as unauthorized by
law. It is as follows:
"[General Order No. 75.]
"NAvY D.PARTmENT,

May 23, 1866.

"Congress having, in view of the call for increased compensation for officers of the navy, repealed the law which prohibited any allowance to them 'for rent of quarters or to pay
rent for furniture, or for lights and fuel, &c.,' the Department,
in order to prevent a recurrence of the irregularities, abuses,
and arbitrary allowances which occasioned the prohibition,
(leems it proper to establish a fixed rate of compensati6n in
lieu of the extra allowances which were prohibited by the law
now repealed. Accordingly, from and after the first day of
June proximo, officers who are not' provided with quarers on
shore stations, will be allowed a sum equal to thirty-three and
one-third per centum of their pay in lieu of all allowances, except fof mileage or travelling expenses under orders; and those
provided with such quarters, twenty per centum of their pay
in lieu of said allowances.
"The act of March 3, 1865, having increased the pay of
midshipmen and mates, the allowances hereby authoized will
not be extended to them.
"GIDEON WELLES,
"ecretalry of the .'oy."
This order was, no doubt, issued in the belief that the legal
effect of the repeal of that part of the act forbidding allowances
"for rent of quarters, or for furniture, or for lights, or fuel, or
transporting baggage," was to reinvest.the Department with
the authority it had prior to the act of 1835.. That act, upon
its face, recognized the fact that such allowances had theretofore been made, and its object was to forbid them in the
future. When the act of 1866 simply removed the prohibition
contained in the act of 1835, the. effect was, without formal

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

words for that purpose, to restore the law as it was before the
passage of the latter act. Such is the rule where the effect of
the. repealing. statute is not by its own terms, or by some general statute, limited to the abrogation of the act repealed.
1 Blackstone, 90; 1 Kent, 460; Bouvier's Bacon's Abridgment, Title Statute, D; 0onimonwealth v. Ghurck ill, 2 Mlet.
118; Van Denburgh v. Village of Greenbush, 66 N. Y. 1.
The general rule was never modified by Congress until the
passage of the act of February 25, 1871, now § 12 of the Revised Statutes, which declared -that "whenever an act is repealed which repealed a former act, such former act shall not
thereby be revived, unless it shall be expressly-so provided."
16 Stat. 431, c. 71. It is scarcely necessary to say that the
act of 1871 cannot control the present case, for the order of
Secretary Welles, and the settlement under it with Philbrick,
both occurred before its passage. And for the same reason,
this case is unaffected by the 4th section of the act of July 15,
1870, (now § 1558 Rev. Stat.,) which provides thht the pay
prescribed therein for officers of the navy, shall be their full
and entire compensation, and that (with certain exceptions
not material to be here noticed) "no additional allowance
shall be made in favor of any of said officers on any account
whatever,, and all laws or parts of laws authorizing any such
allowances shall, on 1st of July, 1870, be repealed." 16 Stat.
332, c. 295.
Notwithstanding the order of Secretary Welles was in harmony with the long-established practice of the Navy Department for many years prior to the passage of the act*of 1835,
it is contended that such a practice never has had support in
an act of Congress'; and that, without legislative sanction,
the Secretary of the Navy was witlout authority to establish
an arbitrary rule for the distribution of moneys appropriated
in gross for specified objects connected with the naval service,'
and could, in no event; make allowances beyond the actual
cost incurred by the officer in whose behalf they were made.
It is a sufficient answer to these pr6positions to say that the
power of the Secretary to establish rules and regulations for
the apportionment of the sums set apart by Congress, in gross,

UNITED STATES v. PHILBRICK.
Opinion of the Court.

for such objects as those involved in the allowances here in
dispute, having been frequently exercised prior to 1835, without objection by the legislative branch of the government;
and since that act, as well as the one of 1866, is an implied
recognition of the practice established in the Navy Department
prior to 1835, we are not disposed, at this late day, to question
the validity of the order of May 23, 1866. That order was in
accordance with the construction which the Executive Department, for many years prior to 1835, placed upon the various
statutes relating to the naval establishment and defining the
powers of the Secretary of the Navy. A contemporaneous
construction by the officers upon whom.was imposed the duty
of executing those statutes is entitled to great weight; and
since it is not clear that that construction was erroneous, it
ought.not now to be overturned. See Hahn v. United States,
107 U. S. 405, and"Brown v. United States, 113 U. S. 571, and
authorities cited in each case.
As these views lead to an affirmance of the judgment, it is
unnecessary to -consider whether, after the account of the appellee foi commutation of quarters, furniture, lights, and fuel,
between November 12, 1869, and June 30, 1870, had been
finally stated and closed, and after he had been paid the
amount allowed himi the Second Comptroller had authority to
open it upon the ground of error therein arising from mere
mistake of law. Nor need we determine whether errors in
accounts so stated, closed and settled by payment, could be
corrected otherwise than by regular judicial proceedings instituted for that purpose by the United States against the
appellee.
JTudgment a~fflrmed.

