OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

of the plaintiff's position as receiver and general manager of
the railroads, his entering into the agreement sued on, and
engaging in the enterprise of purchasing the bonds and thereby
acquiring the railroads, were unlawful, and did not entitle him
to the aid of a court of equity to enforce the agreement or any
rights growing out of it, were averments of pure matter of law,
arising upon the plaintiff's case as stated in the bill, and affecting the equity of the bill, and therefore a proper subject of
demurrer, and not to be availed of by plea.
The result is, that the principal question considered by the
court below and argued at the bar is not presented in a form
to be decided upon the record -before us; and that, for the
reasons above stated, and as suggested in behalf of the plaintiff
at the reargument, the plea was erroneously sustained, and
must be overruled, and the defendants ordered, in accordance
with the 34th Rule in Equity, to answer the bill.
.Decree rteversed, and case rtemanded, with di'eelions to overrule the plea, and to order the defendants 'to answer the
bill.

PENSACOLA ICE COMPANY v. PERRY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE

NORTHERN DISTRICT OF"FLORIDA.
Submitted December 20, 1886.-Decided February 7, 1887.

It appearing by the reeorld in this court that the Verdict at the trial of
an action of ejectment in the Circuit Court of the United States sitting

in Florida did not state the quantity of the estate or describe the land,
the judgment was reversed and the cause remanded for a new trial
THE

case is stated in the opinion of the court.

.Xr. Willianm A. Blount for plaintiff in error.
.A&. TWayne _3e Veagh for defendant in error.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE

delivered the opinion of the court.

SHERMAN v. JEROMIE.
Syllabus.

A statute of Florida, approved February 22, 1881, contains
the following provisions:
"See. 4. The verdict in actions of ejectment shall, when for
the plaintiff, state the quantity of the estate of the plaintiff,
and describe the land by its metes and bounds, by the number
of the lot or other certain description.
"See. 5. The judgment awarding possession shall, in like
manner, state the quantity of the estate, and give description
of the land recovered."
This was an action of ejectment, and the verdict, which was
for the plaintiff, id not state the quantity of the estate or describe the land. This is assigned for error, among others, and
Perry, the defendant in error, in the brief which has been filed
in his behalf, confesses that the judgment in his-favor is thereby
vitiated. Without considering any of the other errors assigned, therefore, we reverse the judgment on this ground
alone and remand the cause for a new trial.
Reveresed.

SHERMAN v. JEROME.
APP A L FROM THE

cmCIT

COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRIT OF MICHIGAN.
Argued December 17, 1886.- Decided February 7, 1SS7.

A clause in a will gave to , the interest of $4000 for life, "the said sum"
- of .$1000 to be equally divided, at C's death, between Ml, S, and J, or so
many of them as should then be living. The will appointed P executor for
New York, and G and D executors for Michigan. G and D, before the
death of C, executed a paper and recorded it in Michigan, by which they,
as executors, "set apart for tlw benefit of" C and "to be held" by them
"in trust for the purpose of paying" said interest, and, upon the death
of C, "for distribution" among M, S, and J, a bond and mortgage for
P4000, on land in Michigan, given to the testator in his lifetime, which
was overdue seventeen months when the paper.was executed. None of
the legatees assented to this proceeding or ratified it or waived their
rights, nor was it authorized by any order of any court. C having died
without the full interest on the $4000 having been paid to him, his administrator and Ai, Saud J filed a bill in equity in Michigan against G andD,

