SHERMAN v. JEROMIE.
Syllabus.

A statute of Florida, approved February 22, 1881, contains
the following provisions:
"See. 4. The verdict in actions of ejectment shall, when for
the plaintiff, state the quantity of the estate of the plaintiff,
and describe the land by its metes and bounds, by the number
of the lot or other certain description.
"See. 5. The judgment awarding possession shall, in like
manner, state the quantity of the estate, and give description
of the land recovered."
This was an action of ejectment, and the verdict, which was
for the plaintiff, id not state the quantity of the estate or describe the land. This is assigned for error, among others, and
Perry, the defendant in error, in the brief which has been filed
in his behalf, confesses that the judgment in his-favor is thereby
vitiated. Without considering any of the other errors assigned, therefore, we reverse the judgment on this ground
alone and remand the cause for a new trial.
Reveresed.

SHERMAN v. JEROME.
APP A L FROM THE

cmCIT

COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRIT OF MICHIGAN.
Argued December 17, 1886.- Decided February 7, 1SS7.

A clause in a will gave to , the interest of $4000 for life, "the said sum"
- of .$1000 to be equally divided, at C's death, between Ml, S, and J, or so
many of them as should then be living. The will appointed P executor for
New York, and G and D executors for Michigan. G and D, before the
death of C, executed a paper and recorded it in Michigan, by which they,
as executors, "set apart for tlw benefit of" C and "to be held" by them
"in trust for the purpose of paying" said interest, and, upon the death
of C, "for distribution" among M, S, and J, a bond and mortgage for
P4000, on land in Michigan, given to the testator in his lifetime, which
was overdue seventeen months when the paper.was executed. None of
the legatees assented to this proceeding or ratified it or waived their
rights, nor was it authorized by any order of any court. C having died
without the full interest on the $4000 having been paid to him, his administrator and Ai, Saud J filed a bill in equity in Michigan against G andD,

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Caurt.
as executors, praying for ap accounting and for the payment of the"
legacies. The executors set up as a defence, that the bond and mortgage
were the sole ftnd for the payment of the legacy, and that the genera *l
estate was not liable, for it; Held, that the paper was revocable at
any time, and did not amount to the decisive and irrevocable act which
must exist to have the effect to transmute the property.

BILL in equity. The case is stated in the opinion of the
court.
.-fr. George W. Miler for appellants.
Jr., was with him on the brief.
_31. J

.Jr. Jmes . Smith,

for appellees. -2f'.-Benton Ranc ett
X
-t. HeGowan

filed a brief for same, submitting on his brief.
MIR. JUSTICE

BLATcHFOIiRD

delivered. tho opinion of the court.

In 1872, Sarah E. Little, then a resident of Perry, Wyoming
County, New York, died at that place, leaving a last will and
testament executed August 30, 1872, and a codicil thereto, executed September.9,1872. The will, after giving sundry money
legacies, proceeded as follows: "Fourth. I give and bequeath
to Charlotte Sherman the interest of four thousand dollars
during the term of her natural life, and at laer decease the said
sum of four thousand dollars shall be equally divided between
Maria Cameron, Sarah E. Morse, and James Sherman, children
of C. A. W. Sherman, or so many of them ajs shall then be living." By subsequent articles other money legacies were given,
aid then followed these articles: "Twenty-second. All bequests herein contained to persons residing in New York, and
that to Maria Cameron, I desire paid first, and the remainder
as fast as the money is available." "Twenty-sixth. I hereby
appoint Henry 1N. Page my executor for carrying but the provisions of this my last will and testament, so far as they relate
to parties and property in this state (in INew York), and
Charles W. Grant, of East Saginaw, and D. HI. Jerome, of Saginaw City, Michigan, my executors for everything, so far as
they relate to parties and property in the State of Michigan
and elsewhere, and my executors are hereby authorized and

SHERMAN v. JEROME.
Opinion of the Court.

empowered to sell and convey any real estate of which I may
be possessed as they shall deem for the best interest of the
legatees."
On the 24th of December, 1881, the present suit in equity
was brought, in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Michigan, by Charles A. W. Sherman, as
administrator of Charlotte Sherman, deceased; Maria Cameron; James Sherman; and Sarah E. Morse; against David
HI. Jerome and Charles W. Grant. The bill sets out the foregoing provisions of Little's will and states these-facts: Charles
A. W. Sherman is the C. A. W. Sherman named in the will.
Charlotte Sherman was his wife, and died in May, 1880, and
he was appointed her administrator in December, 1881. In
January, 1873, the will of Little was proved before the surrogte-f Wyoming County, New York, and letters testamentary
were issued to Page, named in if as executor. In March, 1873,
letters testamentary on the will of Little were issued by the
Probate Court for Saginaw County, Michigan, to Grant and
Jerome.
Page, in New Yorl, and Grant and Jerome, in
Michigan, entered upon their duties as executors. In New
York, Little left property not exceeding a few hundred dollars
in amount, which went into the hands of Page, and was used'
in defraying funeral expenses, leaving nothing in his hands
with which to pay the legacies. Little left a large real and
personal estate in Saginaw County, Michigan, which came into
the hands of Grant and Jerome, as executors, and they have
now in their hands a greater amount of the estate than is sufficient to pay to the plaintiffs their legacies and to pay all the
other legacies. Grant and Jerome paid to Charlotte Sherman
the interest on the $4000 down to April 1, 1876, but nothing
more has been paid on the legacies to the plaintiffs. Maria
Cameron, Sarah E. Morse, and James Sherman were living at
the time of the death of Charlotte Sherman, and are still living. The bill prays for an accounting by the defendants, as.
executors, and for the payment to the plaintiffs of the amounts
due to them for the legacies.
The answer admits that a part of the estate left by Little in
MNichigan came into the hands of Grant and a part into the
VOL. Cxx-21

I OCTOBER -TERMI, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

hands of Jerome. It avers that, aside from the Coats bond
and mortgage hereafter mentioned, Grant baas none of the estate now- in his hands, and Jerome has $9621.75, including
any fees, commissions or compensation for his services. Accounts of receipts and disbursements by each defendant, as executor, are annexed to the answer. It then sets forth, that
the defendants believed it to be their duty to set apart and invest, out of the estate, $4000, the interest of which, as they
should be able to cbllect it, should be paid to Charlotte Sherman during her lifetime, and the principal be retained by
them in such investment, and, after her decease, be paid over
to Maria Cameron, Sarah E. Morse, and James Sherman; that,
for that purpose, they took out of the estate and 'set apart a
bond executed. by one Coats to Little, in the penalty of $10,000, dated May 1, 1869, conditioned to pay $1000 May 1,
1871, $1000 May 1, 1872, and $3000 May 1, 1873, with interest annually on all sums unpaid at 10 per cent.; and a mortgage given to secure the bond, bearing the same date, executed
by Coats to Little, mortgaging a parcel of land in East Sagi.naw, Saginaw County, Michigan, and recorded in the office of
the register of deeds for Saginaw County; that, to set apart
the bond and mortgage, they, on the 20th of October, 1874,
executed and acknowledged the following instrument in writing, which was recorded in the offic6 of said register of deeds
on the same day:
. "'Wherea , by the last will and testament.of Sarah E. Little,
the interest of [the] sum of four thousand dollars is bequeathed
to Charlotte Sherman for her life, and upon her decease the
said sum of four thousand dollars is to be divided between
parties therein named;
"And whereas, among the assets of the estate of said Sarah
E. Little is a bond and mbrtgage made by Alice L. Coats to
said Sarah E. Little, dat4ed'Xoy 1, i869, for',the sum of five
thousand dollars, on which there is now due four thousand dollars, and which mortgage is recorded in the office of the register of deeds of Saginaw County, Michigan, in liber 0 of mortgages, on pages 324 and 325:
"Now, therefore, we, the undersigned, executors of the said

SHERMAN v. JEROM3E.
Opinion of the Court.

will, do hereby set apart'tfor the benefit of said Charlotte Sherman, and to be held by us in trust for the purpose of paying
the said interest, and upon her decease for distribution among
the persons named in said will, the said bond and mortgage.
"In witness whereof, we have hereunto set our hands and
seal., this twentieth day of October, A.D. 1874.
[L.s.]
"DAvm H. JERo.nE.
"Ci

nLEs W. GANr.

[L.s.]

"Signed, sealed, and delivered in presence of " BENToN HAwcHiET,
"D. R. RiouARDsoN.

"State of Michigan,
County bf Saginaw,

.

"On this 20th day of October, A.D. 187'4, before me, a notary
public in and for said county, personally came the above-nanmed
Divid H. Jerome and Charles W. Grant, to me known to be
the executors of the last will 6f Sarahb E. Little, deceased, and
acknowledged the foregoing instrument by them subscribed to
be their free act and deed.
"BENT'roN

E1ANiipErr,

.Not"' Pulic;"

by means whereof they set apart the bond and mortgage, ag
an investment intheir hands, to be'held by them as executors
under the will, in trust, from which to collect the interest on
the sum of $4000, represented by the bond and mortgage, as
principal, and pay the same to Charlotte Sherman, and to collect and receive.the piincipal, and pay the same, in pursuance
of the direction -of the will, to Maria Cameron, Saiah E. Morse,
and James Sherman; that they made the investment properly,
and in accordance with their duty; that their action was, in
effect, the same, in all respects, as if they had taken the sum
of $4000 in money and purchased a security for that amount,
or had loaned that sum on security for the purpose of obtaining interest and retaining the principal to meet the payment
of the legacy; that the investment was made according to the

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

best of their judTnqnt, and in good faith; that they then believed the security wag ample, and that the bond and mortgage
were a desirable security for providing for the legacy; that
Coats was then believed by the defendants to be worth, in her
own right, the smun of at least $15,000 over and above the real
estate covered by the mortgage; that they then believed:also
that the real estate was a good and sufficient security by itself
to secure the payment of the $4000 and interest thereon; tlat
the money secured by the bond and mortgage was not collected from Coats, because they believed the sejcurity, as it
stood, was an entirely satisfactory and altogether desirable
, one, and an investment as good as they could make; that on
such setting apart of the security, Charlotte Sherman was informed thereof, and thereafter Grant collected from Coats, on
the bond and mortgage, four suns of $200 each, which he
paid to her, he having, in January, 1874, paid to her $200, all
on account of her legacy ; that no other sums have since been
collected by the defendants on the bond and mortgage, and
there is due thereon $4000 of principal, and interest from Mafiy
1, 1876 ; that when the interest ceased to be paid the defendants notified Charlotte Sherrhan thereof, and asked her advice
and direction as to foreclosing the mortgage, and since her
death they have requested the advice and direction of the
plaintiffs in regard to collecting the bond and mortgage, and
have advised them of the setting apart of the iecurity; that
the defendants have offered, and now offer, to transfer the
bond and mortgage to the plaintiffs; that they have paid
$132.43 for taxes on the mortgaged land, which were a lien on
it, and which should be reimbursed to them. that since the
investment, Charlotte Sherman And the plaintiffs have had no
right to claim payment of any part of the legacy out of the esthte of Little ; and that the investm nt has remained the sole
fund out of which- the legacy should be paid. The answer
then admits that the amount which came into the hands of
the defendants from the. estate Qf Little was sufficient, after
paying all the debts of Little; to pay the legacy to the plaintiffs,
and all the other legacies payable before that legacy, according .o the directions of the will, but such amount and the es-

SHERMAN v. JEROME.
Opinion of the Court.

tate was not sufficient to pay all the legacies, not including the
residuary legacy. It then avers that, according to,the provisions of the will, it.
was not their duty to pay over the $4000
to Charlotte Sherman; anl that the other legatees under the
will always. objected,. after such bivestment had been made,
to any other provision or payment being .made out of the,
estate on account of that legacy.
It was stipulated by the parties that Charles A. W. Sherman was administrator of Charlotte Sherman, and that Page
bad not, at the time of the filing of the bill, or at any tibue,
any funds in his hands belonging to the estate of Little,
except as alleged in the bill.
The case was heard on bill and answer. A-decree was made
providing, that the defendants,. as executors, have in their
hands, and hold, said.bond and mortgage, in trust for the pay-ment to ihe plaintiffs of the legacy. specified, in the .fourth
clause of, the-bill- that the plaintiffs- are entitled to ,the payment of the proceeds of the bond and mortgage, after dedticting therefrom the expenses of the collection. thereof, and the
amounts paid, and to-be paid, by the defendants .for taxes on
the property covered by the mortgage, to preserve the lien'
thereof, and the costs of this suit; and that 'the defendants
foreclose and collect the bond and mortgage, b5y proper legal
proceedings, and,, out of the proceeds, retain the necessary and
reasonable'costs and expenses of such foreclosure and collection, and the amounts so paid, -and to be paid, by them for
taxes, and-their cofts of -this suit, and pay the balance of the
proceeds to the plaintiffs in payment and discharge of the legacy. From this decree the plaintiffs have-appealeh
The only question necessary or proper to be disposed of on
this-appeal, in view of the pleadings and of th. terms of the
decree below, is whether the special matter aleged in regard
to the setting apart of- the bond and m6rtgage, is a defence to
the suit.
At the time of the execution, of the paper -of October 0,
1874, the unpaid $4000 secured by the hond and mortgage had
been overdue more than seventeen months. There is no suggestion that any of the legatees named in the fourth article of

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

the will consented to the setting apart of the bond, and mortgage; or that there was any order of any cohrt on the subject.
The fourth article gives directly to Charlotte Sherman the interest of $4000 for life, and at her decease gives directly to
such of the other three persons named as shall then be living,
"the said sum of four thousand dollars" to be equally divided
among them. Under these circumstances, the execution of the
paper of October 20, 1874, by the defendants, setting apart
the bond and mortgage, to be held by them in trust, even
though the paper was put on record, amounted to io more
than if they had retained 'the bond and mortgage, without
executing any such paper, tnd had nerely made a mental
resolution to consider the b qd and mortgage as set apart for
this legacy. There was Xo second party to the paper, no
transfer in it, no contract, and the beneficiaries nevei: assented
to it, or ratified it, or waived their rights; and, in the absence
of any such action by the beneficiaries, it was revocable at
any time. Without deciding what course, if any, might lawfully have been taken by the defendants at the time in question, to effect the object they sought, we are of bpinion that
noe avail to that end than the mere
what they did was of no .mental determinat on -of the executor in 3Riller v. Congdon,.
14 Gray, 114.. Even though the mental determination took
the shape of a W -itten declared purpose, it did not amount to
the decisive and -irrevocable act which nst exist to have the
effect to transmute the property..
The decree of the Circuit Court is reversed, and the case is
'remandedto that court, 'with a direction to take such further proceedings therein as shall not be inconsistent with
this oPinion.

